ERHARDT v. BOARO.
Syllabus.

the plaintiff in a multiplicity of suits as to the title of lots laid out
and being sold; would prevent their sale; and would cloud the
title to all its real estate. We think that these results are sufficiently apparent, and render it unnecessary to look farther.
The allegation of fraud has nqt been proven, and cannot, therefore, have any effect in the case. It is unnecessary to inquire
into the sufficiency of other grounds for equitable relief which
are alleged in the bill.
Another point raised by the defendants, not affecting the
jurisdiction of the court but the propriety of its taking jurisdiction, is that the complainant ought to have paid the taxes which
are conceded to be due to the city for the year 1880. As we
understand the facts stated by the bill (which, of course, the demurrer admits to be true), the complainant did pay to the city
all the taxes which would be due upon the assessment and valuation made by the Board of Equalization, including taxes due
on outside property of the company in the city.
The decree of the Suprene Court of Wyoming must be re'vereed, and the caue remanded, 'with instuction8 to enter a decree in favor qf the complainant in conformity
with thi #inon; and it i 8 8o ordered.

ERIIARDT v. BOARO & Others.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
Argued January 14. 185.-Derided March 2,1885.

A written notice of a claim to fifteen hundre(! feet on a mineral-bearing lode
or vein in Colorado, signed by the discoverer thereof, and posted on a stake
at the point of discovery, when made in good faith, and not as a speculative location, is a valid location on seven hundred and fifty feet on the
course of the lode or vein in each direction from that point, and gives the
right of possession to the discoverer until the other steps necessary for completing the title can be taken according to law.
The forcible evintion of the discoverer and locator of a mineral-bearing lode or
vein from the lode or vein before the sinking of the vhaft which the stat-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.
utes of Colorado require as one of the acts to complete title, and the prevention of his re-entry by threats of violence, excuse him, as againdt the party
keeping him out of possession, and so long as he is kept out of it, from complying with the requirements of the act in respect of a shaft.
Discovery and appropriation are recognized as sources of title to mining
claims ; and development by working as the condition of continued ownership, until a patent is obtained.
Whenever preliminary work is required to define and prescribe a located mineral claim, the law protects the -first discoverer in the possession of the
claim, until sufficient excavations and development can be made, so as to
disclose whether a vein or deposit of such richness exists as to justify work
to extract the metal.
A mere posting of a notice that the poster has located thereon a mining claim,
without discovery or knowledge on his part of the existence of metal there,
or in its immediate vicinity, is a speculative proceeding, which initiates no
right.

This was an action for the .possession of a mining claim in
Pioneer Mining District, in the county of Dolores and State of
Colorado. The claim was designated by the plaintiff as "The
Hawk Lode" mining claim, and by the defendants as "The
Johnny Bull Lode" mining claim. The plaintiff was a citizen
of New York, and the defendants were citizens of Colorado.
The complaint was in the usual form in actions for mining
cktims under the practice in Colorado. It contained two counts.
The first alleged in addition to the citizenship of the parties as
stated, the possession by the plaintiff, on the 17th of June,
1880, of the claim, which was fully described, his right to its
possession by virtue of its location pursuant to the laws of the
United States and of the State, and the local rules and customs
of miners in the district, and by virtue of priority of possession;
the wrongful entry upon the premises by the defendants on
the 30th of that month, their ousting the plaintiff therefrom,
and unlawfully withholding the possession thereof from him to
his damage of $50,000. The second count, in addition to the
citizenship of the parties, the possession of the claim by the
plaintiff, and the subsequent wrongful entry of the defendants
and their ousting him, alleged that the defendants worked and
mined in the claim, and dug out and removed from it large
quantities of gold and silver-bearing ore of the valueof $50,000,
to the damage of the plaintiff in that amount. The plaintiff

ERHARDT v. BOARO.
Statement of Facts.

therefore prayed judgment for the possession of the mining
premises, and for damages of $100,000.
The answer of the defendanis contained a specific denial of
the several allegations of the complaint except that of the citizenship of the plaintiff, and as to that it averred their want of
information and demanded proof. And it set up the discovery
of the claim in controversy on the 30th of June, 1880, by the
defendants Boaro and Hull, to which they gave the designation
of "The Johnny Bull Lode;" and its definite location and
record within ninety days thereafter, and. their subsequent relocation of the claim, September 8, 1880, to avoid a conflict
with an adjoining claim. They prayed, therefore, that they
might be decreed its possession and ownership 'in accordance
with their rights.
On the trial the plaintiff produced evidence tending to show
that on the 17th of June, 1880, one Thomas Carroll, a citizen
of the United States, whilst searching, on behalf of himself and
the plaintiff, also a citizen, for valuable deposits of mineral,
discovered, on vacant unoccupied land of the public domain of
the United States, in the Pioneer Mining District mentioned, the
outcrop of a vein or lode of quartz and other rock bearing gold
and silver in valuable and paying quantities; that by an agreement between him and the plaintiff, pursuant to which the
explorations were prosecuted, all lodes and veins discovered by
him were to be located, one-fifth in his name and four-fifths
in the name of the plaintiff; that on the day of his discovery
Carroll designated the vein or lode as the "Hawk Lode," and
posted at the point of discovery a plain sign, or notice in
writing, as follows:
"HAwx LODE.
"We, the undersigned, claim 1,500 feet on this mineralbearing lode, vein or deposit. Dated June 17, 1880.
"JOEL B. ERHIARDT, -tths,
"THomAs CI.AZOLL, Ith ;"
that on the same day at the point of his discovery, Carroll
commenced excavating a discovery shaft and ,sunk the same
VOL. cXIII-34

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

to the depth of about eighteen inches or two feet on the vein;
that nhthe 30th of the month, in the temporary absence of
himself and the plaintiff, the. defendant Boaro, with knowledge of the rights and claims of the plaintiff and Carroll, entered upon and took possession of their excavation, removed
and threw away or concealed the stake upon which their
written notice was posted, and, at the -point of Carroll's discovery of the vein or lode, erected a stake and posted thereon
a discovery and location notice as follows:
"JO1u & BULL LoDE.
"We, the undersigned, claim 1,500 feet on this mineralbearing vein or lode, running six hundred feet northeast and.
nine hundred feet southwest, and 150 feet on each side of the
same, with all its dips and spurs, angles and variations.
"June 30th, 1880.

"AwrrHo~N

BoAo.

"W. L.Hum."
The evidence also tended to show that Boaro and Hull entered upon the premises thus described about July 21, 1880,
and remained thereafter continuously in possession; that
threats of violence to the plaintiff and Carroll, if they should
enter upon the premises or attemipt to take possession of them,
were communicated to Carroll as having been made by Boaro
early in August following; that in consequence of such threats
and the possession held by Boaro, Carroll was prevented from
resuming work upon and completing the discovery shaft and
from entering upon any other part of the lode or vein, and
performing the acts of location required by law within the
time limited. The evidence also tended to show that within
ninety days from the discovery of the lode by Carroll, one
French, on behalf of the plaintiff and Carroll, secretly caused
the boundaries of the claim to be marked by six substantial
posts so as to include the place of disco-ery and .the premises
in controversy, and filed in the office of the recorder of the
county a location certificate setting forth the iame of the lode,
the date of the location, the names of the plaintiff and Carroll
as locators, and the course of the lode or vein; and giving

ERHARDT v. BOARO.
Statement of Facts.

such a description of the claim, with reference to natural oh.
jects and permanent landmarks, as would suffice to identify the
same with reasonable certainty.
The evidence offered by the defendants tended to rebut that
of the plaintiff, and to show that, on the 30th of June, 1880,
when Boaro entered upon the ground in controversy, he found
nothing on the surface to indicate a vein or lode, or that any
excavation had been made, or stake erected, as alleged by the
plaintiff, or that any portion of the ground claimed by the defendants had ever been previously located or claimed; that
their discovery cut was commenced at a point thirty-five feet
distant from the point described and claimed by Carroll as the
point at which he had began to sink the discovery shaft of the
"Hawk Lode," and erected his stake and posted his notice,
and that the top of the vein was at least four feet below the
surface; that Carroll had abandoned all claim to the premises
in controversy, and that his omission to perform the required
location work was due to such abandonment, and not to any
threats of the defendants, or of any of them, nor to the occupation of the ground by Boaro and Hull, or either of them;
that neither the plaintiff nor Carroll ever demanded possession
of or asserted any title to the premises until the working of the
claim by the defendants had shown it to be valuable.
The evidence of the defendants also tended to show that
they had commenced work upon the claim about July 21, 1880,
and sank and excavated an open cut, striking the vein or lode
at the depth of ten feet or more, and exposed therein a vein of
rock in place bearing gold and silver; that no mineral nor any
indications of a vein or lode were found until they reached the
depth of seven or eight feet; and that subsequently and Within
the time limited by law, they marked the bounds of their claim
on said lode, called by them the "Johnny Bull Lode," and recorded a location certificate, describing their claim by reference
to natural objects and permanent landmarks, and complying in
all respects with the requirements of the law.
The evidence being closed, the court was, among other
things, requested to instruct the jury that from and after the
date of the discovery by a citizen of the United States, upon

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

vacant unoccupied mineral lands, of the outcrop of a vein or
body of mineral-bearing rock, the discoverer is entitled to the
possession of the point at which he made his discovery, and of
such a reasonable amount of adjacent ground as is necessary or
incidental to the proper prosecution of the work of opening up
or exposing the vein or body of mineral-bearing rock to the
depth and within the time required by law, and that to such
extent he is protected by law in his possession for the period of
sixty days from the date of his discovery. But the court refused to give this instruction, and the plaintiff excepted to the
refusal. The court charged the jury, among other things, that
it was in evidence, and seemed to be conceded, that the notice
on the stake put up by Carroll contained no specification or description of the territory claimed by the locators, as that they
claimed a number of feet on each side of the discovery, or in
any direction therefrom, and "in this respect," said the court,
"the notice was deficient, and under it the locators could not
claim more than the very place in which it was planted. Elsewhere on the same lode or vein, if it extended beyond the point
in controversy, any other citizen could make a valid location;
for this notice, specifying no bounds or limits, could not be said
to have any extent beyond what would be necessary for sinking
a shaft; " and also, that to entitle the plaintiff to recover, "it
should appear frQm the evidence that Boaro entered at the very
place which had been taken by Carroll, because, as Carroll's
notice failed to specify the territory he wished to take, it could
not refer to or embrace any other place than that in which it
was planted." To the giving of these instructions the plaintiff
also excepted. The defendant obtained a verdict, and to review, the judgment entered thereon the plaintiff brought the
case here on writ of error.
Mr. Eliku Boot for plaintiff in error.
. . C. S.
inerror.

nkma"
and -Mr. T. X. Patterson.for defendants

ERHARDT v. BOARO.
Opinion of the Court.
MR. JUSTICE FIELD, after stating the case in the above mentioned language, delivered the opinion of the court:
As seen by the statement of the case, the court below, in its
charge, assumed that the notice on the stake, placed by Carroll
at the point of his discovery, contained no specification or description of the ground claimed by the locators, because it did
not designate the number of feet claimed on each side of that
point, or in any direction from it. The court accordingly instructed the jury that the notice was deficient, and under it the
locators could not claim any more than the very place in which
the stake was planted, and that elsewhere on the same lode
beyond the point of discovery any other citizen could make a
valid location.
In this instruction we think the court erred. The statute allows the discoverer of a lode or vein to locate a claim thereon
to the extent" of fifteen hundred feet. The written notice
posted on the stake at the point of discovery of the lode or vein
in controversy, designated by the locators as "Hawk Lode," de;
clares that they claim fifteen hundred feet on the "lode, vein,
or deposit." It thus informed all persons, subsequently seeking to excavate and open the lode or vein, that the locators
claimed the whole extent along its course which the law permitted them to take. It is indeed indefinite in not stating the
number of feet claimed on each side of the discovery point; and
must, therefore, be limited to ati equal number on each side,
that is, to seven hundred and fifty feet on the course of the
lode or vein in each direction from that point. To that extent,
as a notice of discovery and original location, it is sufficient.
Greater particularity of description of a location of a mining
claim on a lode or vein could seldom be given until subsequent
excavations have disclosed the course of the latter. These excavations are to be made within sixty days after the discovery.
Then the location must be distinctly marked on the ground, so
that its boundaries can be readily traced, and, within one month
thereafter, that is, within three months from the discovery, a
certificate of the location must be filed for rec6rd in the county
in which the lode is situated, containing the designation of the
lode, the names of the locators, the date of the location, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

number of feet claimed on each side of the centre of the discovery shaft, the general course of the lode, and such a description of the claim, by reference to some natural object or per-nanent monument, as will identify it with reasonable certainty.
IRev. Stat. § 2324 ; Gen. Laws of Colorado, §§ 1813-1814.
But during the intermediate period, from the discovery of
the lode or vein and its excavation, a general designation of the
claim by notice, posted on a stake placed at the point of
discovery, such as was posted by Carroll, stating the date of the
location, the extent of the ground claimed, the designation of
the lode and the names of the locators, will entitle them to such
possession as will enable them to mak.e the necessary excavations
and prepare the proper certificate for record. The statute of Colorado requires that the discoverer, before a certificate of location
is filed for record, shall, in addition to posting the notice mentioned at the point of discovery, sink a shaft upon the lode to
the depth of at least ten feet from the lowest part of such shaft
under the surface, or deeper, if necessary, to show a defined
crevice and to mark the surface boundaries of the claim.
Before this work could be done by the plaintiff and his colocator, the ground claimed by them was taken possession of
by the defendants, the stake at the point of discovery, upon
which the notice was posted, was removed, and Carroll was
thereby, and by threats of violence, prevented from re-entering
upon the premises and completing the work required to perfect
the location and, prepare a certificate for record-at least, the
evidence tended to establish these facts. If they existed, and
this*was a 4uestion for the jury, the plaintiff was entitled to
recover possession of the premises. To the extent of seven
hundred and fifty feet on the course of the lode on each side
from the point of discovery, he and his co-locator were entitled
to protection in the possession of their claim. They did not
lose their right to perfect their location, and perform the necessary work for that purpose, by the wrongful intrusion upon the
premises, and by threats of violence if they should attempt to
resume possession. As against the defendants, they were entitled to be reinstated into the possession of their claim. They
could not be deprived of their inchoate rights by the tortious

ERHARDT v. BOARO.
Opinion of the Court.

acts of others; nor could the intruders and trespassers initiate
any rights which would defeat those of the prior discoverers.
The government of the United States has opened the public
mineral lands to exploration for the precious metals, and, as a
reward to the successful explorer, grants to him the right to
extract and possess the mineral within certain prescribed limits.
Before 1866, mining claims upon the public lands were held
under regulations adopted by the miners themselves in different localities. These rbgulations were framed with such just
regard for the rights of all seekers of the precious metals, and
afforded such complete protection, that they soon received the
sanction of the local legislatures and tribunals; and, when not
in conflict with the laws of the United States, or of the State
or Territory in which the mining ground was situated, were
appealed to for the protection of miners in their respective
claims, and the settlement of their controversies. And although since 1866 Congress has to some extent legislated on
the subject, prescribing the limits of location and appropriation and the extent of mining ground which one may thus acquire, miners are still permitted, in their respective districts, to
make rdles and regulations not in conflict with the laws of the
United States or of the State or Territory in which the districts are situated, governing the location, manner of recording, and amount of work necessary to hold possession of a claim.
Rev. Stat. § 2324. In all legislation, whether of Congress or
of the State or Territory, and by all mining regulations and
rules, discovery and appropriation are recognized as the sources
of title to mining claims, and development, by working, as
the condition of continued ownership, until a patent is obtained.
And whenever preliminary work is required to define and de
scribe the claim located, the first discoverer must be protected
in the possession of the claim until sufficient excavations and
development can be made, so as to disclose whether a vein or
deposit of such richness exists as to justify work to extract the
metal. Otherwise, the whole purpose of allowing the free exploration of the public lands fdr the precious metals would in
such cases be defeated, and force and violence in the struggle

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

for possession, instead of previous discovery, would determine
the rights of claimants.
It does not appear, in this case, that there were any mining
regulations in the vicinity of the "Hawk Lode," which affect
in any respect the questions involved here. Had such regulations existed they should have been proved as facts in the case.
We are therefore left entirely I the laws of the United States
and the laws of Colorado on the subject. And the laws of the
United States do not prescribe any time in which the excavations necessary to enable the locator to prepare and record a
certificate shall be made. That is left to the legislation of the
State, which, as we have stated, prescribes sixty days for the
excavations upon the vein from the date of discovery, and
thirty days afterwards for the preparation of the certificate
and filing it for record. In the judgment of the legislature of
that State this was reasonable time.
This allowance of time for the development of the character
of the lode or vein does not, as intimated byLcounsel, give encouragement to mere speculative locations, that is, to locations
made without any discovery or"knowledge-of the existence of
metal in the ground claimed, with a view to obtain the benefit
of a possible discovery of metal by others within that time.
A mere posting of a notice on a ridge of rocks cropping out of
the earth, or on other ground, that the poster has located thereon
a mining claim, without a:ny discovery or knowledge on his
part of the existence of metal there, or in its immediate vicinity,
would be justly treated as a mere speculative proceeding, and
would not itself initiate any right. There must be something
beyond a mere guess on the part of the miner to authorize him
to make a location which will exclude others from the ground,
such as the discovery of the presence of the precious metals in
it, or in such proximity to it as to justify a reasonable belief in
their existence. Then protection will be afforded to the locator
to make the necessary excavations and prepare the proper certificate for record. It would be difficult to lay down any rules
by which to distinguish a speculative location from one made
in good faith with a purpose to make excavations and ascertain
the character of the lode or vein, so as to determine whether

EHRARDT v. BOARO.
Opinion of the Court.

it will justify the expenditures required to extract the metal;
but a jury from the vicinity of the claim will seldom err in
their conclusions on the subject.
This case, as appears by the record, is brought in the name
of one of -the locators, Erhardt, who owns only four-fifths of
the claim. But as a tenant in common with Carroll, he can
maintain an action of ejectment for the possession of the
premises, the recovery being not merely for his benefit but for
that of his co-tenant, who is equally entitled with him to the
possession.
It follows from what we have said that
The judgment of the court below must be revered and the case
remandedfor a new trial; and it i8 8o ordered.

ERIIARDT v. BOARO & Others.
APP

L FROM THE

CIRCUIT COTIRT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF COLORADO.
Argued J'anuary 14, 1885.-Declded March 2,1885.

Where irremediable mischief, going to the destruction of the substance of the
estate, is being done by the person in possession, to an estatein litigation
at law, an injunction will be issued to prevent it.

The facts which make the case are stated in the opinion of
the court.
Mr. Eiihu Boot for appellant.
Hr. T. X. Patterson and Mr. 0. S. Thomas for appellees
submitted on their brief.
delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit in equity ancillary to the action for the possession of the mining claim just decided. It is brought to restrain
MR. JUSTIC, FIELD

OCTOBER TERM,

1884.

Opinion of the Court.

the commission of. waste by the defendants pending the action.
The bill sets forth the discovery by one Thomas Carroll, a citizen of the United States, while searching on behalf of himself
and the plaintiff, also a citizen, for valuable deposits of mineral
on vacant unoccupied land of the United States, of the outcrop
of a vein or lode of quartz and other rock bearing gold "apd
silver in valuable and .paying quantities, the posting by him in
his name and that of the plaintiff, at the point of discovery, of
a notice that they claimed 1,500 feet on the lode, the intrusion
of the defendants upon the claim, their ousting the locators.
and other facts which are detailed by the record in the case
decided, and the commencement of the action at law. It also
alleges that the defendants were working the claim, and had
extracted from it one hundred and fifty tons, or thereabouts, of
ore, containing gold and silver of the value of $25,000, and that
about one hundred tons remain in their possession on the premises. The bill prays for a writ of. injunction restraining the
defendants. from mining on the claim, or extracting ore therefrom, or removing any ore already extracted, until the final
determination of the action at law. The principal facts stated
in the bill are supported by affidavits of third parties. The
court granted a preliminary injunction, but, after the trial of
the action at law, judgment being rendered therein in favor of
the defendants, it dissolved the injunction and dismissed the
bill. From the decree of the court the case is brought here by
appeal.
It was formerly the doctrine of equity, in cases of alleged
trespass on land, not to restrain the use and enjoyment of the
premises by the defendant when the title was in dispute, but
to leave the complaining party to his remedy at law. A controversy as to the title was deemed sufficient to exclude the

jurisdiction of the court.

In Pilwort v. Hpton, 6 Vesey,

51, which was before Lord Eldon in 1801, he is reported to
have said that he remembered being told in early life from the
bench "that if the plaintiff filed a bill for an account and an
injunction to restrain waste, stating that the defendant claimed
by a title adverse to his, he stated himself out of court as to
the injunction." This doctrine has been greatly modified in

RICHARDS v. MACKALL.
Opinion of the Court.

modern times, and it is now a common practice in cases where
irremediable mischief is being done or threatened, going to the
destruction of the substance of the estate, such as the extracting of ores from a mine, or the cutting down of timber, or the
removal of coal, to issue an injunction, though the title to the
premises be in litigation. The authority of the court is exercised in such cases, through its preventive writ, to preserve the
property from destruction pending legal proceedings for the
determination of the title. Jerome v. Ros8, 7 Johns. Ch. 315,
332; Le Boy v. W'right, 4 Sawyer, 530, 535.
As the judgment in the actit(n at law in favor of the defendants has been reversed, and a new trial ordered, the reason
which originally existed for the injunction continues.
The decree of the court below mut, therefore, be revermed, and
the cause remanded, with direction to Pestore the injunction until the Xfnal determination of that action; and it i8
so ordered.

RICHARDS

. -MAOKALL.

APPEAL FROM TH) SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Submitted December1, 1884.-D~eded March 2, 1885.

Where there is an appeal from the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia
to this court, the citation may be signed by any justice of that court.
An appeal from the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia to this court
may be allowed by that court sitting in special term.
From the transcript of the record it appears that the supersedeas bond in this
case was in due form, and was approved by the court.

This was a motion to dismiss. The grounds of the motion
sufficiently appear in the opinion of the court.
Xr.

. Willoughby in support of the motion.

Mr. William B. IFebb and .J11. Enoch Totten opposing.
CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.
The Supreme Court of the Distridt of Columbia consists of

MR.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

one Chief Justice and five Associate Justices. Rev. Stat. Dist.
Col. § 750, 20 Stat. 320, ch. 99, § 1. The law provides for
both special and general terms of the court, and for an appeal from the special to the general term, but the judgments
and decrees when rendered are, whether they be at general or
special term, the judgments and decrees of the Supreme Court.
Rev. Stat. Dist. Col. %§753, 772. A general term is held by
three justices, two, however, constituting a quorum, and a
special term by one. Rev. Stat. Dist. Col. % 754, 757, 20 Stat.
320, ch. 99, § 2.
By § 705 of the Rev. Stat., as amended February 25, 1879,
20 Stat. 320, ch. 99, § 4, the final judgments and decrees of
the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, in cases where
the value of the matter in dispute exceeds $2,500, may be
brought to this court for review "upon writ of error or appeal, in the same manner and under the same regulations as
are provided by law in cases of writs of error on judgments, or
appeals from decrees rendered in a Circuit Court."
This is an appeal froi a decree of the Supreme Court of the
District at a general term held by Chief Justice Cartter and
Associate Justices Hagner and Cox, which began on the first
Monday in April, 1884, and ended July 5, 1884. The transcript contains the following: "[Filed July 8, 1884.]
"Supreme Court-of the District of Columbia
"Brooke Mackall,
VS. Jr.,

E
SJ18Eq.

Alfred Richards et al.
"And now comes the said defendant, Alfred Richards, and
appeals to the Supreme Court of the United States from the
decree of the general term passed July 5, 1884, iii the above
cause against him.
WM. B. Wynn,

for defendant 1?ieharde.
"The above appeal is allowed this 8th day of July, 1884.
MACAnTiuE, Justice."
"By the court:

RICHARDS v. MACKALL.
Opinion of the Court

Then follows a citation in proper form signed by the Chief
Justice of the court, bearing the same date as the order allowing the appeal. This citation was served October 7, 1884.
Next in the transcript is the following:
"In the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia,
the 10th day of July, 1884.
"Brooke Mackall, Jr.,
No. 8,118 Eq. In error."
V8.
Alfred Richards et al.
Then follows a supersedeas bond in due form, and at the foot
these words:
"Approved July 11, 1884.

MACARTHUR,

Ju8tice."

The appeal was docketed in this court on the 15th of
October, 1884.
The grounds of the motion may be stated thus:
1. The citation was not signed by the justice who approved
the bond;
2. The citation was not served in time; and,
3. Mrs. Richards and Leonard Mackall, who were defendants
below, have not joined in the appeal.
§§ 999, 1012 and 705 of the Revised Statutes, taken together,
provide in effect that, when there is an app'eal from the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia to this court, the citation
may be signed by any justice of that court. Such an appeal is
to be taken under the same regulations as appeals from the
Circuit Court. § 705. On appeals from the Circuit Court a
judge of that court may sign the citation. § 999. Clearly,
therefore, when the appeal is from the Supreme Court of the
District, a justice of that court may do the same thing.
The transcript in this case shows that the appeal was allowed
by the court, undoubtedly sitting in special term. This, we
think, may be done. An appeal in a proper case is a matter
of right. The decree appealed from was the decree of the
Supreme Court, and the court, while sitting in special term,
was still the Supreme Court, and as such capable of allowing
an appeal to this court from one of its final decrees, though

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabus.

rendered at general term. As the general term had closed, it
was quite proper to apply to the court sitting in special term
for the allowance of the appeal. The allowance by the court,
while in session at special term, would not do away with the
necessity of a citation, because the allowance would not have
been made at the same term in which the decree was rendered.
Yeaton, v. Lenox, '7Pet. 220, 221 ; Railroadv. Blair, 100 U. S.
661, 662. As the allowance was made by the court, it was
quite regular for the Chief Justice to sign the citation.
The transcript also shows that the bond was approved by
the court. It seems to have been presented to the court on
the 10th of Jly and approved the next day. What was done
was, according to the transcript, "In the Supreme Court of
the District of Columbia."
Even if the citation was not served in time, which we do not
decide, the failure to serve will not work a dismissal of the
appeal. Dayton v. Lash, 94: U. S.112.
The last ground of the motion to dismiss was not relied upon
in argument. The effect of what has been done was to allow
a separate appeal by Alfred Richards.
The motion are overruled.

PEUGH v. DAVIS.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
Argued January 27, 1885.-Decided March 2,1885.
In a suit in equity for redeeming unoccupied and unenclosed city lois from a
mortgage, the mortgagee in constructive possession is 'chargeable only with
the amounts actually received by him for use and occupation.
It would be unreasonable to charge him with interest on the loans secured by
the mortgage.
Respondent defended against complainant's claim to redeem, by setting up
that the alleged mortgage was an absolute conveyance. This being decided
adversely, Held, That in accounting as mortgagee in constructive possession,
he was not liable for a temporary speculative rise in the value of the tract,
which subsequently declined-both during the time of such possession.

