DAVIES v. CORBIN.

687

Arguments for the Motions.

withous prejudice to the rights of the defendants among themselves, the report of the master is binding on the parties only
so far as it fixes the amounts due the several appellees. In its
effect the decree binds no one except the parties to the appeal
in respewt to the right of the several appelleesto their recovery
-Dimissed.

DAVIES t. CORBIN & Another.
GAINES v. CORBIN & Another.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR- THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.
Submitted March 3, 1885.-Decided March 18, 1885.

The docketing by the defendant if-error of a cause in advance of the return
day of the writ of error, does not prevent the plaintiff in error from-doing
what is necessary while the writ is in life, to give it full effect.
Unless there is some color of a right to a dismissal, the court will not entertain a motion made to affirm.

Motions to dismiss or affirm.
A statement of the litigation in Davies v. Corbin, is contained in 112 U. S. 36, which was also a motion to dismiss.

The grounds for the motion in Gaines v. 'orbin, are substantially the same as those in the other case.
HallettPhlklips,with whom were fessrs.B.C. Brown,
.1.. "fr.
E. . imball and C. P. R.C lnd,for the motions.-I. The
writ of error in the case of -Daviesv. Corbin was nevrer perfected. The record fails to show that any bond was given.
That in the absence of a bond the writ of error will be dismissed,
has often been decided. Sage v. Railq ovi: Co., 96 U. S. 712;
_National Bank v. Omaha, Id. 712.-IL Davies and Gaines
are not entitled to prosecute writs of error. The mandamus to
the county court constituted the judgment; the orders on the

688

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

rules to show cause against the tax collector, elerk and other
officers, were merely in enforcement of that judgment. The
levy and collection of a tax is not only an entire thing, although
accomplished by successive steps and by separate officials, but
is a continuous transaction. Labette Co. v. .Aoulton, 112'U. S.
225. Surely every one of the officials of the State who may
have any action to take in the assessment, collection and payment of the tax, cannot prosecute a separate writ of error and
make a separate "case" here, every time there is a levy attempted to be enforced under the writ of mandamus.-IIL
The judgments should be affirmed even if the cases are not
dismissed. The writs of error are brought in the face of the
repeated decisions of this court, to the effect, that it is -no
answer to a writ of mandamus from a United States 'court
commanding a collection of a tax, for the tax officer to allege
that he had been enjoined by a State court. It is plain the cases
are brought here for delay only.

Mr.A. H Garland opposing.
MR.CHiEF JusTICE WA=Tm delivered the opinion of the court.
This is the second time a motion has been made to dismiss
the case of Davies v. Corbin. The ground of the present. motion is that the security required by ยง 1000 Rev. Stat. has
never been given. Against this it is shown that a supersedeas
bond was accepted by the judge who signed the citation on the
8th of April, 1884. The judgment brought under review by
the writ of error was rendered on the 11th of February; 1884.
The writ of error was sued out and served on the 7th of March,
in the same year, and the citation was also signed and served
on that day. The cause was duly docketed in this court by
the defendant in error on the 22d of March, in advance of the
return day of the writ. On the same day the defendant in
error filed his motion to dismiss for other reasons than that now
relied on. The plaintiff in error was notified that the motion
would be presented to the court on the 14ih of April. When
the motion was filed the security had not been given, but before the-time fixed for hearing it was tendered in proper form

BOYER v. BOYER.
Syllabus.

and accepted. Early in the present term that motion was
overruled.
The docketing of the cause by the defendant in'error in advance of the return day of the writ did not prevent the plaintiff in error from doing what was necessary while the writ was
in life to give it full effect. The present motion to dismiss is,
therefore, overruled.
The original rule allowing a motion to affirm to be united
with a motion to dismiss was promulgated May 8, 1876, 91 U.
S. vii., and in Whitney v. Cook, 99 U. S. 607, decided during
the October Term, 1878, it was ruled that the motion to affirm
could not be entertained unless there appeared on the record at
least some color of right to a dismissal. This practice has been
steadily adhered to ever since, and, in our opinion, prevents our
entertaining the motion to affirm in this case. That motion is
consequently
Denied.
In Gaines v. Corbin and Another, there is a motion to dismiss, with which is united a motion to affirm.
These motions are denied. There is not sufficient color of
right to a dismissal to make it proper for us to entertain a
motion to affirm.

BOYER v. BOYER & Others, County Commissioners.
IN

ERROR

TO THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE

STATE

OF PENNSYL-

VANIA.
Submitted January 9, 18S.-Decided March 2, 1885.

The laws of Pennsylvania exempted from local taxation, for county purposes,
railroad securities; shares of stock held by stockholders in corporations
which were liable to pay certain taxes to the State; mortgages; judgments;
recognizances; moneys due on contracts for sale of real estate ; and loans
by corporations, which were taxable for State purposes, when the State
tax should be paid.
The pleadings in this case admitted, in detail,
large amounts of exempted property urder these heads in the State: Held.
That, under these circumstances, this constituted a discrimination in favor

VoL. c:;nx--44

