OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabus.

ings show no continuous band; and the statement in the original patent, that "the use of the short or sectional bands produces a saving of material, as compared to the old style of
continuous band," shows that the patentee was drawing a
sharp contrast between the only bands he contemplated-short
or sectional bands-and a continuous band, of one piece of
material, as long as the collar. The original patent industriously excluded from its scope a continuous band. In the reissue, to cover a continuous graduated band, the two bands B B
are converted into a single band composed of the parts B B,
and, while that is described as extending along the top or body
of the collar, the "shorter graduated bands" are described as
saving material, as compared with an old style continuous
band, of uniform width.
While we are of opinion that the views of the Circuit Court,
as before recited, were erroneous, we presume that if this case
had been decided after January, 1882, the decree would not
have been for the plaintiff.
The decree qf the Circuit Court is reversed, and the case is
remanded to that court, with a direction.to dimziss the bll,
with costs.

SPAIDS v. COOLEY.
TN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMiBIA.
Argued January 19,1885.-Decided February 2, 1885.

The declaration in an action to recover money contained the money counts.
The defendant pleaded the' general issue, and the statute of limitation.
The plaintiff replied a new promise within the statutory time. At the
trial, before a jury, he offered in evidence a deposition, taken under a commission, to prove the new promise. The defendant objected to the deposition, hut did not state any ground of objection. The bill of exceptions set
forth, that the court "sustained the objection, and refused to permit the
said deposition to be read to the jury, and ruled it out because of its informality." The deposition appearing to be iegular in form ; and the evidence
contained in it, as to the new promise, being material, and such as ought to

SPAIDS v. COOLEY.
Opinion of the Court.
have been before the jury ; and the court below having instructed the jury
that the plaintiff had not offered sufficient evidence of a new promise to be
submitted to the jury, and directed a verdict for the defendant : and as, if
there was such new promise, there was evidence on both sides, for the consideration of the jury, on the other issues, on proper instructions ; and as
the bills o4, exceptions did not purport to set out all the evidence on such
other issues ; this court reversed the judgment for the defendant, and
awarded a new trial.

The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
.2'. S. S. Henkle for plaintiff in error.
Mr. IF. Penn Clarke for defendant in error.
fMR.
JUSTICE BLATcOBoRD delivered the opinion of the court.
This suit was brought in the Supreme Court of the District
of Columbia, on the 13th of December, 1876, by Chauncey D.
Spaids against Dennis N. Cooley, to recover $6,P93.70, with
interest from July 1st, 1868. The declaration contains the
common money counts, and nothing more. There are two
pleas, one denying indebtedness, and the other averring that
the alleged cause of action did not accrue within three years
before the suit. The plaintiff's reply joins issue on the first
plea, and, as to the second plea, avers that the defendant promised to pay the debt named in the declaration within three
years next before the commencement of the suit. At the trial,
the jury found "the issue in favor of the defendant," and there
was a judgment accordingly, at special term. The plaintiff
appealed to the general term, which affirmed the judgment,
and he brings the case here by a writ of error.
There are four bills of exceptions. They show that the
trial took place in March, 1880. The first one contains the
following statement: "The plaintiff, to sustain the issue on his
part, offered evidence tending to show, that, some time in
December, 1866, he became acquainted with olie John A.
Hudnall, who had a claim against the United States for cotton
captured by the army during the war of the rebellion, the
proceeds.of which had gone into the treasury of the United

OCTOBER TERMI, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

States; that said Hudnall had no means to employ counsel,
and applied to him to undertake the collection of his, said
Hudnall's, claim against the United States; that the plaintiff
agreed to do so for a, contingent fee of 30 per cent. of the
amount to be recovered; that plaintiff thereupon associated
with himself one Joseph Parrish, to whom he agreed to give
one-fourth of the said fee, if he would assist him in the collection
of said claim; that, neither the said Parrish nor the plaintiff
being a lawyer, they concluded to employ the defendant to
prosecute the said case in the United States Court of Claims;
that the defendant was absent from the city at the time; that
the contract made by the plaintiff with Hudnall was in writing,
and the plaintiff thinks he inserted the name of the defendant,
as the contracting party with Hudnall at the suggestion of
.said Parrish or one Weed, and because the plaintiff was not an
attorney at law; that the plaintiff and said Parrish procured
the form of a petition for instituting a suit in the Court of
Claims, and prepared a petition, and had it printed and filed,
according to the rules of the Court of Claims, signing the name
of the defendant to said petition, as the attorney of record,
without his knowledge or consent; that the plaintiff proceeded
at once, under the rules of the said court, to take some testimony in the case on behalf of the claimant; that he employed
Judge Merriman, a competent lawyer, to assist him in taking
the testimony; that the case was partly prepared for trial
before the return of the defendant to the city, and, when he
came, the plaintiff and said Parrish called upon him, and informed him what they had done, anad he approved of it, and
agreed to take charge of and prosecute the said case; that
Parrish.said to the defendant, that, if successful, he could have
a fee of five thousand dollars, which the defendant said would
be entirely satisfactory; that they then left the agreement
made with Hudnall with the defendant; that, subsequently,
the defendant said to the plaintiff that the contract did not
provide for making the fee a lien upon the judgment which
might be rec6vered, and he wanted Hudnall to come and indorse this stipulation on the agreement; that the defendant
afterwards took into partnership W. Penn Clark, and the firm

SPAIDS v. COOLEY.
Opinion of the Court.

of Cooley & Clark did go on with the case, and prosecute it to
judgment, recovering about $44,000, which was paid to said
Clark; that the money paid to said Clark was' about $44,000,
and the plaintiff demanded from the defendant his share of the
fee, -which defendant, who was about leaving for his home in
Iowa, said he had instructed his partner Clark to retain, and
not pay over any of the money until the plaintiff had been
settled with; that said Clark did not pay him any part; and
that the fee retained amounted to about eleven thousand dollars.
The plaintiff also gave testimony tending to show that the defendant had on several occasions promised to pay the plaintiff
his share of said fee, and once in the city,of Chicago, within
three years before the commencement of this suit, had promised
to pay said plaintiff, but that he had not done so. He testified,
on cross-examination, that, when Cooley returned, he approachel him and told him what the arrangement was between
him and Parrish-that Parrish was to have one-fourth of his
fee, out of which he was to pay Cooley; that Cooley said that
was satisfactory, and he would 0o on and prosecute the claim;
and that that was the arrangement made between him and
Cooley. And the plaintiff further testified, that he rendered
no services in the case at the request of Cooley or Clark, and
rendered none at all after his first conversation with Cooley
about it."
The fourth bill of exceptions contains the following: "And
whereas the defendant'had pleaded the statute of limitations,
and the plaintiff replied a new promise within the three years
preceding the commencement of this suit, the plaintiff, to support this issue on his part, did testify in chief, as follows: ' I
next saw Cooley-well, I have seen him so many times I cannot remember when the next time was; I saw him twice in
Chicago.
.
.
. My recollection is that I next saw him in
1874. Well, I cannot exactly fix the time; it was during the
oyster season, I remember; either in the spring or fall. Well,
from about the first of September to the latter part of April
or the first of May; mean, between -the first of September,
1874, and the last of April or first of May, 1875. I met him
in the street, with his satchel in his hand. He said he was

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

going to Washington. I asked him if he intended to pay me
that money. He replied, "You should have had your money
long ago, but my partner, Col. Clark, is behaving very badly;
he has got a portion of the money into his hands and refuses
to pay you." He said: "I am now on my way to Washington;
I am going to get the best settlement I can from Clark, and
upon my return I will positively pay you." He said further
that he did not know but he would have to pay me himself.'
And upon cross-examination, he further testified: ' Remember
quite distinctly, I asked Cooley if he was going to pay me that
money in the Hudnall case, or whether he was going to force
me to further proceedings at law.' He said: ' You ought. to
have had that money long ago; it would have been paid, but
Clark is behaving very badly in the matter; he has part of it
in his hands and refuses to pay you. I do not know but what
I will have to pay you myself.' That is as near precisely what
he said as language can make it. I think, I cannot be much
mistaken, that was, as near as possible, the very language he
used. I said to Cooley: 'Are you going to pay me that
money due me in that Hudnall cse, or are you going to force
me to further legal proceedings to get it? ' He said: ' Mr.
Spaids, you ought to have had your money long ago, but Mr.
Clark is behaving very badly in the matter; he has a portion
of the money in his hands and refuses to contribute towards
paying you, and I do not know but that I will have to pay you
myself." And this was all the evidence offered by the plaintiff in support of the new promise. After overruling the
prayer of the plaintiff, the court instructed the jury that the
plaintiff had not offered sufficient evidence of a new promise,
on the part of the defendant, to take the case out of the statute
of limitations, to be submitted to them, and directed them to return a verdict for the defendant. To which instruction and
direction of the court the plaintiff, by his counsel, excepted."
It must be inferred, that, as the fourth bill of exceptions states
that the evidence set forth in it "was all the evidence offered
by the .plaintiff in support of the new promise," such evidence
is the testimony referred to in the first bill of exceptions, in the
statement there male that "the plaintiff also gave testimony

SPAIDS v. COOLEY.
Opinion of the Court.

tending to show that the defendant had, on several occasions,
promised to pay the plaintiff his share of said fee, and once, in
the city of Chicago, within three years before the commencement of this suit, had promised to pay said plaintiff," but in regard to which evidence, notwithstanding the above statement,
the court afterwards "instructed the jury that the plaintiff
had not offered sufficient evidence of a new promise, on the
Fart of the defendant, to take the case out of the statute of
limitations, to be submitted to them, and directed them to return
a verdict for the defendant."
The second bill of exceptions states that the plaintiff offered
in eviderice the deposition of Joseph E. Spaids, of which a copy
is set forth, to which the defendant objected; that the court
"sustained the objection, and refused to permit the said -deposition to be read to the jury, and ruled it out because of its
informality, to which ruling the plaintiff excepted."
The record shows that in December, 1879, on motion of the
plaintiff, the court made an order "that a commission issue to
John M. Robertson, Esq., a justice of the peace, of Algonac,
St. Clair County, and State of Michigan, to take the testimony
of Joseph E. Spaids, a witness for the plaintiff, on the interrogatories and cross-interrogatories filed herein, to be read in
evidence on the trial of this case." The commission was issued
by the court, under its seal, and the signature of its clerk,
December 27, 1879, to Mr. Robertson, empowering him to
examine Joseph E. Spaids "as a witness for the plaintiff in the
above-entitled cause, upon the interrogatories annexed to this
commission," "on oath or affirmation." The entire deposition
is as follows:
"In the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
Chauncey D. Spaids)
V.
At Law. No. 16,894.
Dennis N. Cooley. )
Interrogatories to be propounded to Joseph E. Spaids, a witness on behalf of the plaintiff in the above-entitled case, by
John M. Robertson, Esq., justice of the peace, a commissioner
appointed by the said court for that purpose:

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

1. What is your name, age, and place of residence?
2. Of what relation are you to the plaintiff?
3. Are you acquainted with the defendant Dennis N. Cooley?
4. When and under what circumstances and where you first
met him? What took place between you at that time?
5. When and under what circumstances and where did you
next see him?
6. State fully and particularly the conversation which took
place between your father, the plaintiff, and the defendant
Cooley at that time?
Answers to Interrogatorieshereunto annexed.
STATE OF MICHIGAN,

)

County of St. Clair, t
On this thirty-first day of December, . D. 1879, before me,
the undersigned, a justice of the peace in and for said county,
personally appeared Joseph E. Spaids, of Algonac, in said
county, who, being by me duly sworn according to law, doth
depose and say, in relation to the case of Chauncey D. Spaids
versus Dennis N. Cooley, hereunto annexed.
Said deponent states as follows:
No. 1. My name is Joseph E. Spaids; my age is forty-four
years; and residence is Algonac, St. Clair County, Michigan.
No. 2. That the said Chauncey D. Spaids is my father.
No. 3. And am acquainted with the said Dennis N. Cooley,
defendant.
No. 4. I first met the said Cooley at Chicago, in the State
of Illinois, about the year 1870; that I was appointed a deputy
sheriff to serve a process of a court, to wit, a summons, upon
the said Cooley, in a suit then and there commenced by said
Spaids against said Cooley; that I did serve said summons
upon said Cooley.
No. 5. I next saw the said Cooley at Chicago, aforesaid, in
"year1874. I met him on Randolph. street, of said city, going
towards the Pittsburgh and Fort Wayne depot. I then went
into an office where my father, the plaintiff, was, and informed
him that said Cooley was in the city. He asked me where he
(said Cooley) was. We stepped out of said office on to the
street; said Cooley being in sight, I pointed him out to said

SPAIDS v. COOLEY.
Opinion of the Court.

Spaids. We both proceeded down to said Cooley, and, after
the usual complimentswere exchanged between said Spaids
and Cooley, the following conversation took place:
No. 6. The said Spaids asked said Cooley if he was going to
pay him (said Spaids) the money due him and now in his (said
Cooley's) hands, in the Hudnall case, without my being obliged
to resort to legal proceedings; to which said Cooley replied as
follows: Mr. Spaids, you ought to have had your money long
ago, for you got the case and done most of the work in the
case before I (Cooley) knew much about it; but my partner,
Mr. Clark, is acting very bad in the matter, and I don't know
but what I will have to pay the whole amount myself; but I
am now on my way to Washington, and while there I will try
and get the best settlement I can with Clark, and on my return
from there, which will be in about ten days, you shall have
your money, if I have to pay it all myself.
I paid particular attention to said conversation, as I had often
heard my father speak of said case both before and after I
served said summons in 1870.
And further saith not.

JosEPr

E. SPAMDS.

Taken, subscribed, and sworn to before me, the day and
year first above written.
JOHN Y. ROBERTSON,

Justice of the Peace."
Appended to the deposition is a certificate under the hand
and seal of the clerk of the county of St. Clair, Michigan, certifying to the official character of Robertson, as a justice of the
peace.
It must be intended that the defendant objected to the admission of the deposition because of some alleged informality,
but what that was is not set forth in connection with the objection; nor is it stated what the informality was on account
of which the court ruled out the deposition. The deposition
appears to be regular in form. It was taken under a commission issued by the- court, and executed by the commissioner
named. The interrogatories forming part of it were put and

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Cour.

answered under a sufficient oath, administered before the answers were taken. The answers are not in narrative form, nor
in the form of an affidavit, but each is an answer to the specific
interrogatory of corresponding number. The place where the
deposition was taken sufficiently appears. The fact that there
were no cross-interrogatories cannot affect the regularity, because, under the order for the commission, made twelve days
before it issued, and providing for the taking of the testimony
"on the interrogatories and cross-interrogatories filed herein," it
was for the defendant to show distinctly that there were crossinterrogatories filed which had not been annexed to the commission. In the absence of any apparent informality, if the
objection made by the defendant to the admission of the deposition was made on the ground of an informality, that
ground, to avail him here, should appear in the bill of exceptions, with a sufficient statement to enable this Court to see
that the ground was a valid one; and the informality on which
the deposition was ruled out should, to avail him, be stated in
the bill of exceptions, with sufficient other matter to enable
this Couft to say that the identical informality on which the
ruling of the court proceeded existed, and was good ground for
the ruling. As the defendant made the objection to the admissibility of the deposition, and it was excluded, it was incumbent on him to make it appear, by the bill of exceptions, what
the ground of objection was, and that it was a valid ground.
The evidence, in the excluded deposition, as to the new promise, was material, and ought to have been before the jury, as
tending to show an absolute promise by the defendant to the
plaintiff, made within three years before the bringing of the
suit, to pay to the plaintiff the money in question, as money
then in the hands of the defendant, and due to the plaintiff.
As the direction of a verdict for the defendant appears to have
been rested on the instruction that there was not sufficient evidence to be submitted to the jury, of a new promise, to take
the ease out of the statute of limitations, and as, if the jury
had found that there was such new promise, there was evidence
on both sides for the consideration of the jury on the other
issues, under proper instructions, and the bills of exceptions do

SULLY v. DRENNAN.
Statement of Facts.

not purport to set out all the evidence on such other issues, a
new trial must be had.
The judgment of the court in general term is reversed, and
the case is remanded to that court, with a direction to reverse the judgment of the court in specal term, with costs,
and to direct that court to award a new trial.

SULLY v. DRENNAN & Others.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF IOWA.
Submitted January 20, 1885.-Decided February2, 1885.

The assignment by a railroad company of a tax voted by a township to aid in
the construction of its railroad, conveys the rights of the company subject to all the equities between the company afid the tax-payers, if it conveys it at all.
In a suit by a tax-payer to invalidate such tax, by reason of failure of the company to comply with conditions precedent to its collection, the company
and the assignee are neeessary parties with an interest opposed to that of
the tax-payer; the trustees of the township and the county treasurer are
also necessary parties with an interest different from that of the tax-payer.
Harterv. Kernochan, 103 U. S. 562, distinguished from this case.

This appeal was from the order of the Circuit Court for the
Southern District of Iowa, remanding to the State court a
case which had been removed from the State into the Circuit
Court.
This suit was brought originally in the District Court of the
State by James N. Drennan and others, tax-payers of Prairie
Township, in the county of Mahaska.
The allegations of the bill which were regarded by this Court
as necessary for its consideration were, that on May. 11, 1880,
the' voters of said township voted a tax of three per cent. upon
the taxable property of said township to aid in constructing a
railroad by a company whose name was afterwards lawfully
changed to that of the Chicago, Burlington and Pacific Railroad Company. That, by the order and notice submitting the

