OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

HYATT & Others v. VINCENNES NATIONAL BANK,
& Another.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF INDIANA.
Submitted January 27, 1885.-Decided March 2,1885.
In 1874, B conveyed to H, for a term of 50 years, all the mineral coal upon
and under a described tract of laud, in Knox County, Indiana, with the
exclusive right to enter on the land to dig for the coal, and remove it, and
to occupy with constructions and buildings, as might be necessary and useful for the full development and enjoyment of the advantages of the coal,
H to have the right to remove all buildings or fixtures placed on the laud,
when the agreement should expire, and to pay a fixed royalty for the coal
mined. Under a judgment against H. the sheriff of Knox County sold, on
execution, to the judgment creditor, at the court-house door, in that county,
in the manner prescribed by statute for the sale of real estate, the interest
of H in the term of years, and certain buildings and articles belonging to
him, which were a part of the structures and machinery for operating a coal
mine on the land, and which were firmly attached to the land. In a suit in
equity brought by the purchaser against another judgment creditor and the
sheriff, to enjoin interference with the property so purchased : Held, That,
under the Revised Statutes of Indiana, of 1852, 2 Rev. Stat., part 2, chap.
1, Act of June 18, 1852, vol. 2 of Davis' edition of 1876, art. 24, see. 526, p.
282, and art. 22, sees. 463, 466 and 467 (as amended February 2, 1855), pp.
215, 217, the sale of the property as real estate was valid.

The Vincennes National Bank, of Vincennes, Indiana, and
the Washington National Bank, of Washington, Indiana,
having severally recovered judgments against William Helphenstine and others, composing the firm of William Helphenstine
& Co., issued executions thereon, under which, and under an
execution on another judgment, the sheriff of Knox County,
Indiana, at the court-house door, in Vincennes, in that county,
on a notice advertised for three weecs successively in a weekly
newspaper, and notices posted as required by law for twenty
days, offered at public sale the rents and profits, for a term not
exceeding seven years, of certain real estate and chattels real
on which he had levied, and, having received no bid for such
rents and profits, exposed to public sale the fee simple of the

HYATT v. VINCENNES BANK.
Statement of Facts.

real estate and chattels real and the improvements thereon, to
wit, "one engine and boiler and hoisting-machine, steam pump,
Fairbank's railroad scales, wagon scales, four screens, blacksmith's shop, one office building, one engine-building and dumphouse, one stable, one lime-house, two dwelling-houses, track
in coal mine, railroad track, switches, and all fixtures belonging
to the coal mine on said real estate and leasehold." The levy
and sale included the interest of the judgment debtors for the
residue of terms of years unexpired under certain mining leases
of real estate, embracing that covered by the Bunting agreement hereinafter mentioned. The two banks became the purchasers, at the sale, on June 9, 1877, and received a certificate,
which stated that they would be entitled to'a deed unless the
property should be redeemed within one year from the date of
the sale.
On the 25th of December, 1877, they filed a bill in equity,
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Indiana, against the members of the firm of William Blelphenstine & Co., and the members of the firm of Hyatt, Levings &
Co. The latter were judgment creditors of William Helphenstine & Co. The object of the suit was to restrain interference
with the purchased property. The bill was afterwards amended,
by making the sheriff a defendant, and by alleging that Hyatt,
Levings,& Co. had caused a levy to be made, under an executidn
on their judgment, on iron rails and other property, which
Helphenstine had detached, and on articles which constituted
a part of the machinery for operating the mine, and which
were firmly attached to the real estate and leasehold, and were
part of the property so purchased by the plaintiffs.
The question in tl~e case arose in respect to an agreement or
lease in writing, executed by one Bunting and his wife and
William Helphenstine & Co., in July, 1874, by which the
former conveyed to the latter, their heirs, successors and as.
signs, for a term"' of fifty years, "all the mineral coal, iron ore,
fire and potter's clay, limestone, building stone, and other
minerals, upon and under the farm or tract of land" described,
with the exclusive right to enter on the land to dig for the
articles named, and, when found, to remove the same from

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

the land, "together with all rights and p~ivileges incident to
mining and securing the minerals aforesaiq, including the right
of ingress and egress, and to dig, bore, mine, explore and occupy with constructions and buildings, as may be necessary
and useful for the full development and enjoyment of the advantages of said coal and other minerals as aforesaid." The
lessees were given "the right to remove all buildings or fixtures placed on said land when said agreement has been forfeited or may have expired;" and they were to pay fixed royalties for the articles mined and removed.
The answers of Helpheiistine & Co:, and of Hyatt, Levings
& Co., averred that the property in question was personal
property, situated fifteen miles distant from the court-house of
the county, and was used in and about the operation of the
mine under the mining contract.
Before the hearing the parties stipulated in writing, "that
the plaintiffs are entitled to a decree as prayed for, unless the
property sold should have been sold as personal property, as
provided for by the statutes of the State of Indiana; that the
sheriff's sale was made at the court-house door, in the city of
Vincennes, in Knox County, and more than twelve miles from
the property." The Circuit Court entered a decree, that, by
virtue of their purchase, and the certificate thereof, the plaintiffs became the equitable owners, subject to the right of redemption, "of the real estate, fixtures, machinery, and chattels
real," which the decree went on to describe; and of the right,
title and interest of William Helphenstine & Co., being the
residue of terms of years unexpired under certain mining leases
of specified real estate, including that covered by the agree
ment with the Buntings; that on said land and leaselolds were
situate and sold, as aforesaid, to the plaintiffs, the chattels real
before described as sold to them; and that the sheriff had
levied on property which, at the time of the sale to the plain.
tiffs, was annexed to and constituted part of 'said real estate
and chattels real, and was part of the property sold to the
plaintiffs, and intended to sell it. The decree enjoined the
defendants from selling the property so levied on. Subsequently the defendants moved to modify the decree by striking

HYATT v. VINCENNES BANK.
Argument for Appe11ants.

out so much as enjoined the sheriff from selling the machinery,
buildings, fixtures and improvements situate on the premises
held under the agreement with the Buntings, because they were.
personal property when levied on under the execution of the
plaintiffs, and the sale was void because they were not sold as
personal property but as real property, and the plaintiffs 'acquired no title under the sale made at the court-house door. The
motion was overruled. The defendants appealed to this court,
setting forth, in their petition of appeal, that they appealed
from that part of the decree which related to the machinery,
buildings, fixtures and improvenients situated on the Bunting
premises and held under the Bunting agreement, on the ground
that it was personal property and not real estate, and was not
sold as personal property, in the presence of the officer making
the sale.
21r. Addison C. Harris, AX. Milliam H. Calkins and X[r.
William Armstrong for appellants.-Iu Indiana, if the officer
making a sale under execution, violates any requirement of the
statute, the sale is void. And if the plaintiff -is the purchaser
he is chargeable with notice of all irregularities. Doe v. Collins,
1 Ind. 24; Hamilton v. Burch, 28 Ind. 233; Piel v. Brayer,
30 Ind. 332; Read v. Carter, 1 Blackford, 410; Davis v.
Cam~p1ell, 12 Ind. 192: ,Lachley v. Cassell, 23 Ind. 600;
Whishuand v. Small, 65 Ind. 120. If the interest of Helphenstine & Co. under the lease was real estate, we concede that
the defendants in error acquired title by the sale. If it was not
real estate, they acquired no title. The lease contains no words
of inheritance. It simply gives a right of entry, to search for
coal, to mine it if found, and to appropriate the produce on payment of the stipulated rent. The lessees acquired no property in'
the coal until its severance from the land. .Knight v. Indiana
Coal & Iron Co., 47 Ind. 105; .7etDowell v. Hendrie, 67 Ind.
513. In Indiana a leasehold is personal property. In 1821
the Supreme Court held that a term of years on the death of
a lessee, passed to his personal representative. Duchane v.
Goodtitle, 1 Blackford, 117. In 1842 it was decided that under
an act authorizing an execution from a justice's court to become

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Argument for Appellants.

a lien on personal property, a sale of a term of years by a constable was valid. Barr v. Doe, 6 Blackford, 335. In 1860 it
was again decided that a lease for a term of years is personal
property. Cade v. Brownlee, 15 Ind. 369. See also .Meni v.
Ratl'one, 21 Ind. 454, decided in 1863; Smith v. Dodds, 35
Ind. 452, decided in 1871; and Schee v. Wiseman., 79 Ind. 389.
The latter case related to a lease of a mining estate for a
term of twenty years. The court say, "The leasehold estate
was personal property." See also .MeCartyv. Burnet, 84 Ind.
22, 26, decided in 1882. So things set up for purposes of trade,
under an agreement that they may be removed, are personal
property. Cromiev. Hoover, 40 Ind.49, 56; Young v. Baxter,
55 Ind. 188, 192; lXcCarty v. Burnett, 84 Ind. 22. It would
seem to follow, without further discussion, that the mining
fixtures in dispute were personal property, and that the sale of
them as real estate was void. The answer made to this is:
That the statutes of Indiana, then in force, regulating sales on
execution, direct this class of personal property to be sold as
real estate. If this is correct, and this leasehold was real estate,
the owner was entitled to keep possession for one year with a
right of redemption during that time. In construing a Michigan
statute, similar to the Indiana law, in a case where a telem of
years had been sold on execution as real estate, the Supreme
Court of that State said: "A sale on execution is designed to
produce the best price which can be obtained; and a sale on
condition that no title shall vest for fifteen months, would,
under ordinary circumstances, render a lease nearly valueless,
besides involving the danger of forfeiture. No bidder would
give for the shortened term the value of the full term." Buhl
v. -enyon, 11 Mich. 249. A judgment lien is a creature of
statute, and may be imposed upon personal property as well as
real estate. Brown v. Clarke, 4 How. 4, 12. But when imposed, sale under execution must be made in accordance with
the statutory regulations imposed on that class of property.Further reference is ;made to § 526 of the Code, which says,
"The following real estate shall be liable . . . to be sold
on execution . . . '5th all chattels real of the judgment

debtor."'

But this does 3iot enact that chattels real shall be

HYATT v. VhNCENNES BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

advertised in the same manner and sold at the same place as
real estate. It declares that terms of years were still subject
to attachment and execution. This was re-enacting the law,
before in force, by which they could be taken and sold under a
common-law writ.
A '7.F. W. 'ice1

for appellees.

MR. JusTicn. BLATOHFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
He recited the facts-as above stated, and continued:
The only question for decision is, by the stipulation of the
parties, whether the property in question should have been sold
in the manner in which personal property was required by the
statute of Indiana to be sold.
The statute in force at the time, in regard to the sale of personal property on execution, 2 Rev. Stat. of Indiana, of 1852,
part 2, ch. 1, act of June 18, 1852, art. 22, % 468, 469,
vol. 2 of Davis' edition of 1876, p. 218, provided as follows:
"Sec. 468. Previous notice of the time and place of the sale of
any personal property on execution shall be given for ten days
successively, by posting up'written notices thereof in at least
three of the most public places in the towfiship where the sale
is to be made. Sec. 469. Personal property shall not be sold
unless the same shall be present and subject to the view of
those attending the sale; and it shall be sold at public auction
in such lots and parcels as shall be calculated to bring the
highest price."
The Revised Statutes of Indiana, of 1852, in force at the
time, in regard to the sale of real estate on execution, 2 Rev.
Stat., part 2, ch. 1, act of June 18, 1852, vol. 2 of Davis'
edition of 1876, provided as follows, Art. 24, § 526, p. 232:
"See. 526. The following real estate shall be liable to all judgments and attachments, and to be sold on execution against
the debtor owning the same, or for whose use the same is
holden, viz.: Fi 8t. All lands of the judgmeni debtor, whether
in possession, reversion or remainder. Second. Lands fraudulently conveyed with intent to delay or defraud creditors.
Third. All rights of redeeming mortgaged lands; also, all

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

lands held by virtue of any land-office certificate. Fourth.
Lands, and any estate, or interest therein, holden by any one in
trust for, or to the use of, another. Fifth. All chattels real of
the judgment debtor." Art. 22, § 463, p. 215: "See. 463. The
estate or interest of the judgment debtor in any real estate
shall not be sold on execution, until the rents and profits
thereof, for a term not exceeding seven years, shall have been
first offered for sale at public auction; but, if the same shall
not sell for a sum sufficient to satisfy the execution, then the
estate or interest of the judgment debtor shall be sold by virtue
of the execution." Art. 22, § 466, p. 217: "Sec. 466. Real
estate, taken by virtue of any execution, shall be sold at public
auction at the door of the court house of the county in which
the same is situated; and, if the estate shall consist of several
lots, tracts, and parcels, each shall be offered separately; and
no more of any real estate shall be offered for sale than shall
be necessary to satisfy the execution, unless the same is not
susceptible of division." Art. 22, § 467, as amended February
2,1855, p 217: "See. 467. The time and place of making sale
of real estate, on execution, shall be publicly advertised by the
sheriff, for at least twenty days, silcessively, next before the
day of sale,.by posting up written or printed notices thereof, in
three public places in the township in which the real estate is
situated, and a like advertisement at the door of the courthouse of the county; and also by advertising the same, for
three weeks successively, in a newspaper printed nearest to the
real estate, if any such newspaper be printed within the jurisdiction of the sheriff."
In the rules prescribed by the act, Art. 48, § 797, p. 313, vol.
2 of Davis edition of 1876, for its construction, it is enacted,
that such rules shall be observed, "when consistent with the
context." Among those rules are these-that "the word
'land,' and the phrases ' real estate,' and 'real property,' include lands, tenements and hereditaments;" and that "the
phase 'personal property' includes goods, chattels, evidences of
debt, and things in action." But no definition or construction
is given of the phrase "chattels real."
The Revised Statutes of Indiana, of 1843, act of February 11,

H1YATT v. VINCENNES ]BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

1843, part 2 chap. 29, Art. 1, § 1, provided as follows: "Section 1. When, by any law of this. State, real estate is authorized
or directed to be sold by virtue- of any execution, the same
shall b6 construed to mean and include, 1. All the lands, tenements, and hereditaments of the judgment debtor, whether in
possession, reversion or remainder. 2. Lands, tenements, and
hereditaments fraudulently conveyed with intent to defeat,
delay, or defraud creditors. 3. All rights of redeeming mortgaged lands, tenements, or hereditaments, and also all lands
held by virtue of any land-office certificate. 4. Lands, tenements, and hereditaments, and any estate or interest therein,
holden by any one in trust for, or to. the use of, another, on
execution issued on any judgment against the person to whose
use, or for whose benefit, the same are holden." The provisions of these four clauses were substantially retained in the
Revision of 1852, and the provision as to "chattels real of the
judgment debtor" was added as a 5th clause. Although, by
the Revised Statutes of 1843; part 2, chap. 29, Art. 1, § 3, p.
454,. judgments were made a lien on real estate. and chattels
real of the judgment debtor, which provision is contained in
the Revision of 1852, part 2,chap. 1, Art. 24.,§ 527, of vol. 2
of Davis' edition of 1876, chattels real were not specifically
made liable to sale on execution as real estate, till 1852, when
the 5th clause was added.
That clause must be interpreted according to the accepted
chattels real." Blackstone defines
meaning of the words, "1
chattels real, according to Sir Edward Coke, 1 Inst. 118, to be
such as concern, or savor of, the realty, as terms for years of
land, and says they are called real chattels, as being interests
issuing out of, or annexed to, real estates, of which they have
one quality, viz., immobility, which denominates them real, but
want the other, viz., a sufficient legal. indeterminate durAtion,
which want it is that constitutes them chatte&. 2 Bl. Comm.
386. Chancellor Kent says, 2 Kent, 342: "Chattels real are
interests annexed to or concerning the realty, as a lease for
years of land; and the duration of the term of the lease is
immaterial, provided it be fixed and determinate, and there
be a reversion or remainder in fee in some other person."

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

The interest of the judgment debtors in this case in the land
covered by the Bunting agreement was a chattel real; and as
the dispute here relates to machinery, buildings, fixtures and
improvements situated on the Bunting premises, and held under
the Bunting agreement, it follows that that property had impressed on it, by the statute, for the purposes of a sale on execution, the character of 4 chattel real, and became, for those
purposes, real estate, and, therefore, was not required to be
sold as personal property, present and subject to the view of
those attending the sale, but was properly sold as real estate, at
the door of the county court house.
The estate for years, or the interest in the land, could not be
subject to view. The machinery, buildings, fixtures and improvements were created under the privilege given by the
agreement to occupy the land with constructions and buildings
for mining coal and other minerals, and, although Helphenstine & Co. had the right to remove the buildings and fixtures
at the expiration of the agreement, yet, so long as they were
held under the agreement, on the premises, and were of the
character referred to, they followed the term for years and partook of its character.
In'Barrv. Doe, 6 Blackford, 335, in 1843, it was held that a
parol lease for three years was a chattel interest, and could be
sold as a chattel, on an execution issued by a justice of the peace.
But that decision does not apply to the statute now under
consideration, and no case is cited or found in the courts of Indiana, which holds to the contrary of the views above expressed.
Indeed, in the Revised Statutes of 1843, part 3, ch. 47, § 347,
p. 992, form No. 10, the form prescribed for an execution by a
justice of the peace was against "goods and chattels," while in
the Revision of 1852, vol. 2 of Davis' edition of 1876, part 5,
ch. 127, form 1o. 4, the form runs against "goods" only.
The case of BuhZ v. .enyon, 11 Mich. 249, is cited for the
appellants. It was there held, that an estate for years in land
was to be sold, on execution, as personal estate, and that a sale
of it in accordance with the statutory provisions for the sale of
real estate was void. The court proceeded on the ground that,
as the statute of Michigan provided that the words "real

HYATT v. VINCENNES BANK.
Opinion of the Court.

estate,
.
when not inconsistent with the manifest inten. shall be construed to include
tion of the legislature, .
and
real
estate,
and all rights thereto, and inlands, tenements,
terests therein;" and also provided that "all the real estate of a
debtor, whether in possession, reversion or remainder, including
lands fraudulently conveyed, with intent to defeat, delay or defraud his creditors, and the equities and rights of redemption
hereinafter mentioned, shall be subject to the payment of his
debts, and may be sold on execution -as hereinafter provided;"
and also enacted, that "all chattels, real or personal; and all
other goods liable to execution by the common law, may be
taken and sold thereon, except as is otherwise provided by law ;"
and, as a leasehold interest of the kind in question was a chattel
interest, and was by the last named- provision classed among
personal property, it was not within the law applicable to the
sale of lands on execution. In the present case, a chattel real
is distinctly classed, by § 526, among "real estate liable to
be sold on execution," and must, therefore, -be sold in the manner in whith § 466 directs that "real estate taken by virtue
of any execution shall be sold."
The point decided in-fMeni v. Rat~bone, 21 Ind. 454, 467,
was, that a lease for years, acquired by a wife during coverture,
became the property of her husband, when reduced to possession by him, and, being a chattel, was personal property, under
the definition before referred to, and subject to the husband's
debts, and, being a chattel real, a judgment against the husband was, by the statute of 1852, a lien upon it.
The motion made in the Circuit Court to modify the decree
was based on the idea, that, while the term for years might be
a chattel real, the machinery, buildings, fixtures and improvements placed on the land should have been sold as personal
property. As the statute requires that real estate "shall" be
sold at the door of the court house, the visible property could
not be'sold there in view of the persons attending the sale of
the real estate, unless it was first severed from the land; and
to have so treated it would, doubtless, have rendered not only
it but the term of years worthless, as vendible articles. *No
such result could have been contenplated by the law-makers,
vOL. cx=-27

oCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

and none such can be allowed, if another reasonable and consistent construction is to be found.
It is not necessary or proper to cbfsider-any question in
volved in any right of redemption. Nor is it intended to clecide anything as to the status of any of the .property, aside
from the lawfulness of the manner of its sale, under the statute
in regard to such sale.
'The decree of the Circuit Court is

UNITED STATES v. JORDAN.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Submitted January26, 1885.-Decided March i0, I885.

Under the act of Congress of July 29, 1882. 22 Stat. 723, ch. 359, providing

for the refunding to the persons therein named of the amount of taxes assessed upon and collected from them contrary to the provisions of the regulations therein mentioned, "that is to say. to" each of such persons the
sum set opposite his name, each of them is entitled to be paid the whole of
that sum, and no discretion is vested in the Secretary of the Treasury, or in
any court, to determine whether the sum specified was or was not the
amount of &tax assessed contrary to the provisions of such regulations.

The facts which make the case are stated in the opinion of
the court.
.Mf. Assitant Attorney-GeneraZ f aury for.appellant.
.Mr. Char/es F. Benjamin for appellee.

Y.R

JUSTiCE BLATcHFoim delivered the opinion of the court.
On the 29th of July, 1882, an act of Congress.was passed,
22 Stat. 723, ch. 359; providing "that the Secretary of the
Treasury, be, and he is hereby, authorized and directed to remit, refund and pay back, out of any moneys in the treasury
not otherwise appropriated, to the following named citizens of

