OCTOBER TERM,

1884.

Opinion of the Court.

EX PAITE BIGELOW.
ORIGINAL.
Submitted January 19, 1885.-Decided February2, 1885.

The Supreme Court of the District of Columbia has jurisdiction to determine
whether an arraignment of a prisoner under several indictments; an ordel. of
court that the indictments shall be consolidated and tried together; an empanelling of a jury for that purpose; an opening of the case on the part of the
prosecution; and a discharge of the jury at that stage in order to try the
prisoner before the same jury on the indictments separately, so put the prisoner in jeopardy in regard to the offences named in the consolidated indictments, that he cannot be afterwards tried for any of those offences.
When a court has jurisdiction by law of an offence and of the person charged
with it, its judgments are, in general, not nullities : an exception to this
rule if relied on, must be clearly found to exist.

This was a motion for leave to file a petition for a writ of
habeas corpus. The facts upon which the motion was founded
appear in the opinion of the court.
-Y. Robert CkM'isty for petitioner.
MR.

JUSTICE

MILLER

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an application for a-writ of habeas corpus to release
the petitioner from imprisonment in the jail of the District of
Columbia, where he is held, as he alleges, unlawfully by John
S. Orocker, the warden of said jail. He presents with the petition the record of his conviction and sentence in the Supreme
Court of the District to imprisonment for five years, under an
indictment for embezzlement; and this record and the petition
of the applicant present all that could be brought before us on
a return to the writ, if one were awarded. We are thus, on
this .ppplication for the writ, placed in possession of the merits
of'the case..
The'single point on -which petitioner relies arises out of the
followingo facts, which occurred at the trial. There were pending before the co-drt fourteen indictments against the petitioner
for embezzlement fts an officer of the Bank of the Republic,
and an orderof the court had directed that they be consolidated

EX PARTE BIGELOW.
Opinion of the Court.

under the statute and tried together. A jury was then empanelled and sworn, and the District Attorney had made a statement of his case to the jury, when the court took a recess.
Upon reconvening, a short time afterwards, the court decided
that the indictments could not be well tried together, directed'
the jury to be discharged from further consideration of them,
and rescinded the order of consolidation. The prisoner was
thereupon tried before the same jury on one of those indictments and found guilty. All of this was against his protest
and without his consent. The judgment was taken by appeal
to the Supreme Court in general term, where it was affirmed.
It is argued here, as it was in the court in general term, that
the empanelling and swearing the jury, and the statement of
his case by the District Attorney, put the prisoner in jeopardy
with regard to all the offences charged in the consolidated indictments, within the meaning of the Fifth Amendment of the
Constitution, so that he could not be again tried for any of
those offences. That amendment declares, among other things,
that no person shall "be subject for the same offence to be
twice put in jeopardy of life or limb;

.

. nor be deprived

of life, liberty or property without due process of law."
If the transaction, as thus stated, brings the prisoher's case
within this principle of the Constitution, the court committed
an error. On account of this error, among others assigned, the
case was carried by appeal to the court in general term, where
the matter was heard by other judges, and, after full consideration, the judgment of the trial court was affirmed.
No appeal or writ of error in such case as that lies to this
court. The act of Congress has made the judgment of that
court conclusive, as it had a right to do, and the defendant,
having one review of his- trial and judgment, has no special
reason to complain.
It is said, however, that the court below exceeded its jurisdiction, and that this court has the power, in such case and forthat reason, to discharge the prisoner from confinement under
a void sentence. The proposition itself is sound if the facts
justify the conclusion that the court of the District was without
authority in the matter.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the CMurt.

But that court had jurisdiction of the offence described in
the indictment on which the prisoner was tried. It had jurisdiction of the prisoner, who was properly briought before the
court. It had jurisdiction to hear the charge and the evidence
against the prisoner. It had jurisdiction to hear and to decide
upon the defences offered by him. The matter now presented
was one of those defences. Whether it was a sufficient defence
was a matter of law on which that court must pass so far as it
was purely a question of law, and on which the jury under the
instructions of the court must pass if we can suppose any of the
facts were such as required submission to the jury.
If the question had been one of former acquittal-a much
stronger case than this-the court would have had jurisdiction
to decide upon the record whether there had been a former acquittal for the same offence, jnd .if the identity of the offence
were in dispute, it might be necessary on such a plea to submit
that question to the jury on the issue raised by the plea.
The same principle would apply to a plea of a former conviction. Clearly in these cases the court not only has jurisdiction to try and decide the question raised, but it is its imperative duty to do so. If the court makes a mistake on such
trial it is eiror which may be corrected by the usual modes of
correcting such errors, but that the court had jurisdiction to decide upon the matter raised by the plea both as matter of law
and of fact cannot be doubted.
This Article V of the Amendments, and Articles VI and
VII, contain other provisions concerning trials in the courts
of the United States designed as safeguards to the rights of
parties. Do all of these go to the jurisdiction of the courts?
And are all judgments void where they have been disregarded
in the progress of the trial? Is a judgment of conviction void
*when a deposition has been read against a person on trial for
crime because he was not confronted with the witness, or because the indictment did not inform him with sufficient clearness of the nature and cause of the accusation?
It may be confessed that it is not always very easy to determine what matters go. to the jurisdiction of a court so as to
make its action when erroneous a nullity. But. the general

EX PARTE BIGELOW
Opinion of the Court.

rule is that when the court has jurisdiction by law of the
offence charged, and of the party who is so charged, its judgments are not nullities.
There are exceptions to this rule, but when they are relied on
as foundations for relief in another proceeding, they should be
clearly found to exist.
The case of Lange, 18 WalL 163, 166, is relied on here. In
that case the petitioner had been tried, convicted, and sentenced
for an offence for which he was liable to the alternative punishment of fine or imprisonment. The court imposed both. He
paid the fine, and made application to the same' court by writ
of habeas corpus for release on the ground that he was then
entitled to his discharge. The Circuit Court, on this application, instead of releasing the prisoner, set aside its erroneous
judgment, and sentenced him to further imprisonment. This
court held that the prisoner, having been tried, convicted, and
sentenced for that offence, and having performed the sentence
as to the fine, the authority of the Cir.cuit Court over the case
was at an end, and the subsequent proceedings were void.
In the present case no verdict, nor judgment was rendered,
no sentence enforced, and it remained with the trial court to
decide whether the acts on which he relied were a defence to
any trial at all.
We are of opinion that what was done by that court was
within its jurisdiction. That the question thus raised bjr the
prisoner was one which it was competent to decide, which it
was bound to decide, and that'vits decision was the exercise of
jurisdiction. .Ex parte Wfatkdns, 3 Pet. 193, 202; Exv _parte
Park8, 93 U. S. 18, 23; Ex parte Tar3rougk, 110 U. S. 651,
653; Rx parte Crouch, 112 U. S. 118.
Without giving an opinion as to whether that decision was
sTiund or not,
IFe cannot grant the 'wit now aekedfor, and it i8, therefore,
denied.

