OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

QUINCY v: JACKSON.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF- THE UNITED STATES FOR TE
SOUTHERNI DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Submitted January 9, 1885.-Decided February 2,1855.

A provision in a city charter, which confers power on the city council to levy
and collect taxes annually on real and personal property, to pay debts and
meet the general expenses of the city, not exceeding fifty cents on each
hundred dollars, relates only to debts and expenses for ordinary municipal
purposes; and not to those debts and expenses which can be incurred only
by special legislative authority.
An act authorizing a municipal corporation to incur a debt for the purpose of
subscribing to the stock of a railroad company, confers authority to levy
taxes for the payment of the debt in excess of limit of taxation authorized
by law for ordinary municipal purposes. United States v. Aaon County,
99 U. S. 582, distinguished from this case.

Defendant in error petitioned below for mandamus against
the mayor and aldermen of the City of Quincy, the plaintiffs
in error, to compel the levy of a tax to pay a judgment recoverect against the city.
The material allegations of the petition were that the judgment was had upon certain coupons of certain bonds of said
city, duly issued by the city in payment 'of its subscription to
the capital stock of the Mississippi and Missouri River Air Line
Railroad Company. That said bonds recited that they were
issued under an order of the city council, passed August 7,
1868, and an act of the General Assembly of the State of Illinois, approved March 27, 1869, legalizing the act of the said
'city of Quincy. in voting said subscription. That there were
no funds in the city treasury of said city to pay said judgment.
That the special charter of said city, as amended in 1863 by
the act of the legislature of said State, provided that there
should be levied on all real and personal property, within the
limits of said city, to pay the debts and meet the general expenses of said city, not exceeding fifty cents on each $100 per
annum, on the annual assessed value thereof. That the legislaturq of said State in 1881 gave said city power to levy on all
its taxable property, for all purposes other than for schools and

QUINCY v. JACKSON.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

the interest on its registered bonds, not exceeding in any year
the rate of one per cent. of the equalized assessed valuation of
such taxable property. That the revenues of said city, from
every source, for the year ending March 31, :1885, after paying
the necessary running expenses of said city, and the sum of
$20,000, and the surplus above the running expenses of said
city upon certain other judgments, in pursuance of certain
mandamus writs, would not be sufficient to pay relator's judgment, and that the relator was without remedy except by writ
of mandamus. The defendants demurred by general demurrer.
The demurrer being overruled, the defendants elected to abide
by it, and the writ of mandamus issued as prayed for. This
writ of error was brought to reverse that judgment.
.Mr. George A. Anderson for plaintiff in error.-Courts cannot clothe a municipal corporation with powers of taxation.
They can only compel it to exercise those already possessed.
United States v. facon County, 99 U. S. 582, 591. All such
powers of taxation are derived from legislative grant, either
express or necessarily implied. Champaign v. Harmon, 98
I1. 491. And power by implication must arise when the act,
out of which it is implied, takes effect. It cannot arise afterwards by reason of failure of existing laws to accomplish their
supposed objects. The act of 1863, ยง 4, clause 3, was the act
in force when these bonds were legalized, and was the only
authority then existing to levy taxes for payment of debts.
It (1) authorized a levy of fifty cents on the hundred dollars
and (2) prohibited a levy of a further amount. This law formed
a part of the measure of the obligations on one side, and of the
rights on the other. Rees v. Watertown, 19 Wall. 107, 120.
This act has not been expressly repealed. If repealed at all,
that was effected by the act of 1869 legalizing these bonds.

It

is familiar law that this court does not favor repeals by impli'cation. Exparte Crow Dog, 109 U. S. 556, 5M0. The act of
1869 enacted "That the acts of the City Council of the City of
Quincy, from June 2, A.D. 1868, to August 28, A.D. 1868, in
ordering an election on the proposition to subscribe the sum of
one hundred thousand dollars to the capital stock of the Mis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

sissippi & Missouri River Air Line Railroad Company, and the
subscription to said stock, and all other acts of said Council in
connection therewith, are hereby legalized and confirmed."
It may well have been the intention of the legislature that this
debt should be paid like all others out of the proceeds of the
fifty cent tax. There is no legatiola or presumption that this
tax was insufficient for the purpose. If it proved so in practice, it would not follow that the legislature intended to repeal
the restrictive clause of the act of 1863. It is a much safer
position to assume that. it regarded the existing laws as sufficient. Supe'rvisors v. United States, 18 Wall. 7-1, 81. The
Constitution of Illinois, ยง 23, art. 3, provides that "no private
or local law, which may.be passed by the general assembly,
shall embrace more than one subject, and that shall be expressed in the title." The act of 1869 showed but one subject
in the title-the legalization of the bonds. It made no reference to the increase of 'the taxing power. The object of the
act was to place the city in the position it would have been in,
had it possessed the power to subscribe, at the time when the
subscription was made: it was not its purpose to place the municipality in a different position from what it would have been
in by increasing the taxing power. Had the city possessed no
taxing powers when the debt was incired, the case would
have been different. This distinguishes it from United States
v. _-New Orleans,98 U. S. 381, and Loan Association v. Topeka,
20 Wall. 655. The current of authority is strong against the
doctrine of implied powers of municipal taxation. Cooley on
Taxation, 200, 209; Chestnutwood v. H7ood, 68 Ill. 132. A
mere grant of authority to contract a debt cannot by implication repeal a pre-existing charter limitation upon the power to
raise taxes for payment of debts. ,S7ackelton v. Guttenberg,
10 Vroom, 660; Leavenworth v. fforton, 1 Kansas, 432; Claerk
v. Davenport, 14 Iowa, 494. The case of United States v. .Afacon County, 99 U. S. 582, seems to be identical, in principle,
with this case. If so, this court has already decided the question of issue. If not, then the case of Binkert v. Jansen, 94
Ill. 283, upon the same question, is decisive and conclusive.
.Mr. Carl . Epler for defendant in error.

QUINCY v. JACKSON.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JusTin JIRL w delivered the opinion of the court.
The relator, Jackson, recovered a judgment in the court below against the city of Quincy, Illinois, for the sum of $9,546.24,
with costs of suit.
There are no funds in its treasury out of which the judg.
ment can be paid, and its corporate authorities have refused
upon demand of the relator to satisfy it, in the only way in
which it can be paid, by a levy of taxes for that specific purpose. The judgment in the present action, which was commenced by a petition for mandamus, requires the city council
of Quincy to levy and collect a special tax sufficient to discharge the amount thereof, with interest from the date of its
rendition, and also the costs of tis and the former action. We
have only to inquire whether the corporate authorities of the
city have the power under the laws of Illinois to levy and collect such a tax.
By an act of the General Assembly of Illinois, amendatory
of the special charter of the city, approved February 14, 1863,
it is provided that "the city council of said city shall have
power to levy and collect, annually, taxes . . . on all real
and personal property within the limits of said city, to pay the
debts and meet the general expenses of said city, not exceeding
fifty cents on each one hundred dollars per annum on the
annual assessed value thereof."
By an act, approved March 27, 1869, it was declared that
"the acts of the city council of the city of Quincy, from June
2, 1868, to August 28, 1868, in ordering an election on the
proposition to subscribe the sum of $100,000 to the capital
stock of the Mississippi and Missouri River Air Line Railroad
Company, and the subscription to said stock, and all other acts
of said council therewith, are hereby legalized and confirmed."
Under the authority conferred by this act negotiable bonds of
the city were issued, and the judgment in the first action was
for the amount of certain coupons of bonds embraced in that
issue. The authority of the city, after the passage of the act
of March 27, 1869, to execute bonds in payment of stock subscriptions theriein referred to was sustained in Quincy v. Cooke,
107 U. S. 549.

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

Subsequently, by an act approved May 30, 1881, it was provided that all cities, villages and incorporated towiis in Illinois
not then having, by their respective charters, the power to levy
and collect as high a rate of taxation as one per cent. annually
upon their taxable property, should thereafter have power to
assess, levy and collect annually upon the taxable property
within their respective limits for all corporate purposes-in
addition to all taxes which any such city, town or village was
then, or might thereafter be, authorized by law to levy and
collect to support and maintain schools, erect school buildings
and for all other school purposes, and to pay interest on its
registered bonded indebtedness-such an amount as their respective corporate authorities, might prescribe, not exceeding
in any year the rate of one per cent. of the assessed valuation
of such taxable property, as equalized by the State board of
equalization, for the preceding year; the said rate to be in lieu
of all other rates and items of taxation then provided and
authorized in such charters, for all purposes other than for
schools, the erection of school buildings, and all other school
purposes, and for paying interest on the registered bonded
indebtedness of such city, town, or village. Laws of Ill
1881, p. 59.
It is conceded by the case before us that the revenue of the
city for its fiscal year ending March 31, 1885, to accrue from
the taxes it could levy under the act of 1881, after meeting its
necessary current expenses and other demands prior to that of
the relator Tackson, will be insufficient to pay his judgment,
interest and costs.
On behalf of the city it is contended that when these bonds
were issued, the act of 1863 prohibited any annual levy of
taxes "to pay the debts and meet the general expenses of
the city," in excess of fifty cents on each one hundred dollars
of the assessed value of its real and personal property. To this
it may be replied, as was done in Quincy v. CooN in reference
to similar language in the original charter of the city, that the
act of 1863 related to debts and expenses incurred for ordinary
munibipal purposes, and not to indebtedness arising from railroad subscriptions, the authority to make which is not implied

QUINCY v. JACKSON.
Opinion of the Court.

from any general grant of municipal power, but must be expressly conferred by statute. When the legislature in 1869
legalized and confirmed what the city council had previously
done touching the subscription to the stock of the Mississippi
and Missouri River Air Line Railroad Company, and thereby
authorized bonds in payment thereof to be issued, it could not
have been contemplated that indebtedness thus created would
be met by such taxation as was permitted for ordinary municipal purposes. In giving authority to incur obligations for such
extraordinary indebtedness, the legislature did not restrict its
corporate authorities to the limit of taxation provided for ordinary debts and expenses. In Loan A8sociation v. Tpeka, 20
Wall. 655, 660, the court, after observing that the validity of a
contract, which can only be fulfilled by a resort to taxation,
depends on the power to levy the tax for that purpose, said:
"It is, therefore, to be inferred that, when the legislature of
the State authorizes a county or city to contract a debt by
bond, it intends to authorize it to levy such taxes as are necessary to pay the debt, unless there is in the act itself, or in some
general statute, a limitation upon the power of taxation which
repels such an inference."

So in United States v. New Orlean8,

98 U. S. 381, 393: "When authority to borrow money or incur
an obligation, in order to execute a public work, is conferred
upon a municipal corporation, the power to levy a tax for its
payment, or the discharge of the obligation, accompanies it;
and this, too, without any special mention that such power
is granted. This arises from the fact that. such corporations'
seldom possess-so seldom, indeed, as to be exceptional-any
means to discharge their pecuniary obligations except by taxation." The same question arose in RaIls County v. United
States, 105 U. S. 733, 735, where it was said: "It must be considcred as settled in this court, that i&hen authority is granted
by the legislative branch of the government to a municipality,
or a subdivision of a State, to contract an extraordinary debt
by the issue of negotiable securities, the power to levy taxes
sufficient to meet at maturity the obligations to be incurred is
conclusively implied, unless the law whiuh confers the authority, or some general law in force at the time, clearly manifests
VOL. cxn-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

a contrary' legislative intention." Again: "If what the law
requires to be done can, only be done through taxation then
taxation is authorized to the extent that may be needed, unless
it is otherwise expressly declared. The power to tax in such
cases is not an implied power, but a duty growing out of the
power to contract. The one power is as much express as the
other." See also Parkersburgv. Brom, 106. U. S. 487, 501.
The doctrine announced in these cases is sustained by United
State8 v. County of Macon, 99 U. S. 582, upon which the plaintiff in error relies; for, in that case, the very act, conferring
upon the county authority to make a subscription io the stock
of a railroad corporation, made special provision for a tax to
meet the subscription, and thus negatived the inference that
the legislature intended to permit any taxation beyond that
allowed by that special act and the general laws of the State.
These decisions cover the present case; for, in the first place,
neither the act of 1869,.from which the city derived authority
to issue negotiable bonds in payment of its subscription, nor
any general law of the State, forbids, expressly or by necessary
implication, taxation to the extent necessary to meet the obligations thus rncurred; and, in the second place, the limitation
imposed by the city's charter upon its power of taxation had
reference to its ordinary municipal debts and expenses.
In reference to the act of 1881, it is only necessary to say
that, if it refers to indebtedness for railroad subscriptions, the
limit imposed by it cannot be made to apply to indebtedness
created prior to its passage, accompanied, as the latter was,
with power in the city, at the time it was created, to imp--taxation sufficient to discharge it.
Judgment aSfi2,

