OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabus

we do not know what was the precise construction given by
the court to the patent. Whether the new pavement, constructed in Redwood City, is an infringement or not, is just as
much a mixed question of law and fact (as the case is presented
to us) as was the question whether the pavements formerly
constructed by the defendant were an infringement. It is a
question which the Circuit Court must decide for itself in the
ordinary way. If the judges disagi ie there can be no juagment of contempt; and the defendant must be discharged.
The complainant nqay then either seek a review of that decision in this court, or bring a new suit against the defendant for
the alleged infringement. The latter method is by far the
most appropriate one where it is really a doubtful question
whether the new process adopted is an infringement or not.
Process of contempt is a severe remedy, and should not be resorted'to where there is fair ground of- doubt as to the wrongfulness of the defendant's conduct.
The case must be dismissed, with directions to the Circuit
Court to proceed thLerein according to law.

WINONA & ST. PETER RAILROAD COMPANY v.
BARNEY & Others.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
-

DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA.

Argued December 4, 5, 1884.-Deccded March 2, 1885.

If acts granting public lands to a State to aiH in constructing railroads con.
tain words of description to which it would be difficult to give full effect
if they *ere ued in an instrument of private conveyance, the court in construing the acts will look to the condition of the country when they were
passed, as well as to the purpose declared on their face, and will read all
parts of them together.
By the act of March 3, 1857, Congress granted to the then Territory of Minne-.
sota in aid of the construction of certain railroads certain alternate sections
of lands along the lines of the roads, and further provided that "in case it
shall appear that the United States have, when the lines or routes of said
roads and branches are definitely fixed, sold any sections, or any parts

WINONA & ST. PETER RR. CO. v. BARNEY.

619

Statement of Facts.

thereof, granted as aforesaid, or that the right of pre-emption has attached
to the same, then it shall be lawful for any agent or agents, to be appointed
by the governor of said Territory or future State, to select, subject to the
approval of the Secretary of the Interior, from .the lands of the United
States

. .

.

so much land

.

. .

as shall be equal to such lands as

the United States have sold or otherwise appropriated, or to which the
rights of preemption have attached as aforesaid," &c. Beld, That the
indemnity clause in this act covers losses from the grant by reason of sales
and the attachment of preemption rights previous to the date of the act, as
well as by reason of sales and the attachment-of preimption rights between
that date and the final determination of the route of the road.
Railroad Co. v. Baldwin, 103 U. S, 126, distinguished.
Leavenworth Railroad Co. v. United States, 92 U. S. 733, explained.
The act of March 3, 1865, 13 Stat. 526, enlarged the grant made to Minnesota
by the act of March 3, 1857, from six sections per mile to ten sections; and
the limits within which the indemnity lands were to be selected to twenty
sections, and further provided, that "any lands which may have been granted
to the Territory or State of Minnesota for the purpose of aiding in the construction of any railroad, which lands may be located within the limits of
this extension of said grant or grants; shall be deducted from the full quantity of the lands hereby granted." Prior to the act of 1865, a grant had
been made to a railroad of lands located within the limits covered by
said extension grant: Heid. (1) That 'the grant by the act of 1857 was a
grant of land in place, and not of quantity; (2) that the enlargement of the
grant by the act of 1865 did not change its nature as to the six sections
originally granted; (3) that as to the remaining four sections the grntwas one
of quantity, but to be selected along and opposite the completed road;- (4)
that where the earlier grant to aid in the construction of the linnesnta and
Cedar Valley Railroad interferes with the extension grant to the plaintiff
in error, the. earlier grant takes the land, and the extension must be
abandoned.

On the 3d of March, 1857, Congress. passed an act, 11 Stat.
195, making a grant of lands to the Territory of. Minnesota to
aid in the construction of certain railroads, with their branches,
and, among others, a railroad from Winona, a town on the
Mississippi River, via St. Peter, to a point on the Big Sioux
River, south of the 45th parallel of north latitude, which is in
the present Territory of Dakota. The language of the act
is, "That there be, and is hereby, grdnted to the Territory
every alternate section of land designated by odd
.
numbers, for six sections in width on each'side of each of said
roads and branches; but in case it shall appear that the United
States have, when the lines or routes of said roads and branches

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.'

are definitely fixed, sold any sections, or any parts thereof,
granted as aforesaid, or that the right of predmption has attached to the same, then it shall be lawful for any agent or
agents, to be appointed by the governor of said Territory or
future- State, to select, subject to the approval of the Secretary
of the Interior, from the lands of the United States nearest to
the tiers of sections above specified, so much land, in alternate
sections, or parts of sections, as shall be equal to such lands as
the United States have -sold or otherwise appropriated, oi to
which the rights of pre~mptiou have attached as aforesaid;
which lands (thus selected in lieu of those sold and to which
preemption rights have attached as aforesaid, together with the
sections and parts of sections designated by odd numbers as
aforesaid and appropriated as aforesaid) shall be held by the
and purTerritory or future State of Minnesota for the use
pose aforesaid; Providqd, Thai the land to be so located shall,
in no case, be further than fifteen miles from the lines of said
roads or branches, and selected for and on account of each of
said roads or branches."
On the 22d of May, of the same year, the legislature of the
Territory of Minnesota passed an act to execute the trust
created by the act of Congress, and, among other things,
authorized a corporation previously formed-known- as the
Transit Railroad Company-to construct and operate the railroad mentioned, with one or more tracks, from Winona to the
Big Sioux River, south of the 45thparallel of north latitude,
on the most direct and feasible route, by way of St. Peter,.and
granted to the company, in order to aid in the construction of
the road, the interest and estate, present and prospective, of
the Territory and future State iii the lands ceded by the 'act
of Congress, together with the rights, privileges and immunities
conferred by it. This grant was made with a proviso that the
land should be exclusively applied to the construction of the
road, and to no other p-urpose. The Transit Railroad Company
subsequently mortgaged to the-State-the lands it had thus, receiv-ed, together with -its franchises, in-order to obtain aid to
-construct the road and comply with the. conditions oh which
the aid was given. It, however, made default, and the mort,

WINONA & ST. PETER RR.CO. v. BARNEY. 621
Statement of Facts.

gage was foreclosed, and the property and franchises of the
company were sold and bought in by the State. These proceedings took place before March 10, 1862.
The Territory of Minnesota became a State, and was admitted into the Union in 1857, and on the 10th of March, 1862,
its legislature passed an act transferring to the Winona and St.
Peter Railroad Company, the defendant below, the lands,
property, franchises and privilego which the State had acquired
from the Transit Railroad Company. Soon afterwards the
defendant commenced the construction of the railroad, and
before March, 1865, completed, it from Winona to Rochester,
a distance of forty-nine and a half miles.
By an act passed on the 3d of March, 1865,13 Stat.- 526, ยง 3,
Congress increased the quantity of land granted to Minnesota
by the act of 1857, to ten sections per mile for all of the roads
and branches, subject to the same limitations attached to the
original grant,_ and bnlarged the limits within which indemnity
lands were to be selected to twenty miles from the line of the
roads. The third section provided "That any lands which
may have been granted to the Territory or State of Minnesota
for the purpose of aiding in the construction of any railroad,
which lands may be located within the limits of this extension
of said grant or.grants, shall be deducted from the full quantity
of lands hereby granted, and that any lands which may have
been so granted shall be strictly applied in accordance with *the
terms and conditions of said act or acts unless subsequently
The sixth section. provided that lands
modified by law."
granted by the act, or previously granted to the Territory or
State of Minnesota, "shall be disposed of by said State for the
purposes 'aforesaid only, and in manner following, namely:
When the governor of said State shall certify to the Secretary
of the Interior that any section of ten consecutive miles of said
road is completed in a good, substantial and workmanlike
manner, as a first-class railroad, and the said Secretary shall be
satisfied that said State has complied in good faith with this
requirement, the said Secretary of the Interior shall issue to the
said State patents for all the lands granted and selected as
aforesaid, not exceeding ten sections per mile, situated.opposite

622-

OCTOBER TERM, 1084.
Statement of Facts.

to and within a limit of twenty miles of the line of said section
of road thus completed, extending along the whole length of
said completed section of ten miles of road, and no further.
And when the governor of said State shall certify to the
Secretary of the Interior, and the Secretary shall be satisfied
that another section of said road, ten consecutive miles in extent, connecting with the preceding section, or with some other
first-class railroad which may be at the time in successful
operation, is co mpleted as aforesaid, the said Secretary of the
Interior shall issue to the said State patents for all the lands
granted and situated opposite to and within the limit of twenty
miles of the line of said completed section of road or roads,
and extending the. length of said section, and no further, not
exceeding ten sections of land per mile for all tlhat part of said
road thus completed under the provisions of this act and the
act to which this is an amendment; and so, from time to time,
until said roads and branches are completed."
After the passage of this act the railroad company proceeded
with the construction of the road westerly from Rochester, and
before October 31, 1867, completed it to Waseca, one hundred
and two miles and 1W of a mile from Winona. Of this distance, as already stated, forty-nine and one-half miles were
constructed before March, 1865, and the remainder, viz., fiftythree miles and -jYs of a mile were constructed afterwards.
Lands had previously been granted to Minnesota for the construction of the Minnesota and Cedar Valley Railroad, and that
road intersected the road of the defendant below between
Rochester and Waseca. Its lands at the intersection were located within the limits of the extension made by the act of
1865 to the original grant of 1857.
On the 31st of October, 1867, the railroad company agreed
with the plaintiffs, upon sufficient considerations, to convey to
them as many acres of land, previously granted by Congress to
M innesota, as the company should receive from the State by
reason of the construction already had of the portion of the
Winona and St. Peter Railroad, estimated to be one hundred
and five miles (but in fact only 102 miles - of a mile), extending westward from Winona, which amounted, as was sup-

WINONA & ST. PETER RR. CO. v. BARNEY.

623

Statement of Facts.

posed, to about six hundred thousand acres, and which were to
be selected as follows:
"Beginning at Winona, and from thence proceeding on each
side of said railroad on a course running parallel therewith, and
embracing each of the six, ten, fifteen and twenty-mile limits
of the Congressional land grants, and in proceeding taking all
lands within each and all of said limits which shall be received
by said company under said acts of Congress, or either of them,
it being understood that on each side of said railroad a uniform
line of advance westwardly, embracing all the lands in said
limits, shall be maintained as nearly as may be until as many
acres shall have been selected and taken as the said company
shall have received for the construction of the portion of said
railroad now completed, which is estimated to be one hundred
and five miles thereof, extending northerly and westwardly
from Winona as aforesaid; it being understood that the said
parties of the first part shall receive as many acres as shall be
received by the party of the second part for the construction of
said one hundred and five miles, or so much thereof as is now
constructed, notwithstanding that under the acts of Congress
the said lands are certified only upon the completion of sections
of not less than ten miles of railroad, but reserving, excepting
and deducting from the said numbers of acres all lands necessary
for the track of said railroad, or the right of way, or depots
or depot.grounds, or other purposes incidental to the operation
of said railroad. And the said ,party of the second part agrees
to acquire the title of said lands as fast as it may be permitted
to do under said acts of Congress, and to release and convey to
the said parties of the first part, or to such person or persons,
In such manner, and from time to time, as may be directed
by the said parties of the first part, or their counsel, on the request of the said parties of the first part, or a majority of
them."
The execution, validity and obligation of this conttact are admitted. The present suit was commenced to enforce its specific
performance, and the only question between the parties is as
to the quantity of land to be conveyed under it. Before the
suit was commenced the company had conveyed to the plain-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

tiffs, in part performance of the contract, 317,094 acres and i%2
of an acre.
As to that part of the road Which was constructed under the
act of 1857 from Winona to Rochester, the court held that
under the act of Congress, the legislation of the State, and the
contract with the company, the plaintiffs were entitled to six
full sections of land for each mile of the road, and that fbr any
deficiencies existing when the route of the road was definitely
fixed, arising from previous sales by the United States of portions of the land, or previous attachment of preemption
rights, whether such sales took place or preemption rights attached before or after the passage of the act, equivalent lands
were to be selected from the indemnity lands provided. And
as to that part of the road which was constructed westerly from
Rochester to Waseca after the passage of the act of 1865, the
court held that the plaintiffs were entitled to ten full sections
.per mile without any deduction for the lands which were
located at the intersection of defendant's road with the road of
the Minnesota and Cedar Valley Railroad Company, and within
the grant for the latter's construction; and as the result of
these rulings the court decided that the plaintiffs were entitled
to a conveyance of 197,111 acres and ?A of an acre, and
entered a decree accordingly. 6 Fed.Rep. 802. From this decree the defendant appealed to this court.
Xk. Tomas -Wilonfor appellant.
-.21k. Gordon E. Cole for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE FiELD delivered the opinion of the court. He
stated the facts in the foregoing language, and continued:
Two questions are presented for our consideration by the appeal in this case. The first relates to the deficiencies in the seetions designated as granted in the act of 1857, arising from sales
and the attachment of preemption rights previous to the final
determination of the route of the road of the railway company,
and the extent to which indemnity for these deficiencies may
be supplied from other lands. The second relates to the reser-

WINONA & ST. PETER RR. CO. v. BARNEY.

625

Opinion of the Court.
vation from the operation of the act of 1865 of lands previously
granted to Minnesota to aid in the construction of any railroad, which were located within the limits of the extension
made by that act to the original grant, and its effect on the
amount of lands claimed by the plaintiffs.
The solution of these questions depends, of course, upon the
construction given to the acts making the grants; and they
are to receive such a constiuction as will carry out the intent
of Congress, however difficult it might be to give full effect
to the language used if the grants were by instruments of
private conveyance. To ascertain that intent we must look to
the condition of the country when the acts were passed, as well
as to the purpose declared on their face, and read all parts of
them together.
The act of 1857 grants lands to the State to aid the construction of several railroads. These were to be built through
large districts of country sparsely settled. " Though the termini
o* each were designated, it was impossible, in advance of surveys, to designate the specific route of any one, even approximately. rn many instances, where the sections would fall
along such route, sales of land had already been made by the
United States, and preemption rights of settlers had attached,
and before the route would be definitely fixed by surveys and
maps, many other sales of land falling within the sections
would probably be made and other preemption rights attach.
It was not for the interest of the country that any portion of
the public lands should be withheld from sale and settlement
because, when the route of the roads was definitely determined,
they miglit fall within the limits of the grants; nor was it
the purpose of Congress to lessen the extent of its aid because
it might ultimately be found that, at the time of its grant, or
when the route -vas determined, portions of the land designated
had already been disposed of or preemption rights had attached to- them. The policy of the government was to keep
the public lands open at all times to sale and preemption, and
thus encourage the settlement of the country, and, at the same
time, to advance such settlement by liberal donations to aid in
the construction of railways. The acts of Congress, in effect,
VOL. cxim-40

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

said: "We give to the State certain lands to aid in the construction of railways lying along their respective routes, provided they are not ilready disposed of, or the rights of settlers
under the laws of -the United States have not already attached
to them, or they may not be disposed of or such rights may not
have attached when the routes are finally determined. If at
that time it be found that of the -lands designated any have
been disposed of, or rights of settlers have attached to them,
other equivalent lands may be selected in their place, within
certain prescribed limits." The encouragement to settlement
by aid for the construction of railways was not intended to interfere with the policy of encouraging such settlement by sales of
the land, or the grant of prebmption rights. It follows that
in our judgment the indemnity clausecovers losses from the
grant by reason of sales arid the attachment of preemption
rights previous to the date of the act, as well as by reason of
sales and the attachment of preemption rights between that
date and the final determination of the'route of road.
It is to no purpose to say, against this construction, that the
government could not grant what it did not own, and therefore
could not have intended that its language should apply to lands
which it had disposed of. As already said, the whole act must be
read to reach the intention of the law-maker. It uses, indeed,
words of grant, words which purport to convey what the grantor
owns, and, of course, cannot operate upon lands with which the
grantor had parted; and therefore when it afterwards provides
for indemnity for lost portions of the lands "granted as aforesaid," it means of the lands purporting to be covered by those
terms. Nor is it to any purpose to cite decisions to the effect
that the grant is in prwsenti, passing an immediate interest to
the State. Such is undoubtedly the case, except as the operation of the grant is affected by the limitations mentioned; that
is to say, when the sections granted are ascertained, the title to
them takes effect as of- the date of the grant, and cuts off all
intervening claimants except as to such portions as may have
been sold, or to which pre-emption rights may have attached.
The language in Railroad Co. v. Baldwin., 103 U. S. 426,
does not militate against this construction of the act. It ex-

WINONA & ST. PETER RR. CO. v. BARNEY.

627

Opinion of the Court.
presses the general purpose of the reservation to keep the lands
open ai all, times to settlement and preemption, and subject to
appropriation for public uses until the route of the road is determined, but does not declare that lands previously sold, or to
which the rights of pre6mption had previously attached, are
excluded from the indemnity clause. The court was there
drawing attention to the difference between the two grants in
the act of Congress of July 23, 1866-that of sections of land
and that of the right of w.ay, the former being a present grant,
except as its immediate operation was affected by the reservations, the latter being a present absolute grant without any reservation or exception.
The language in .Ltavnwortk, Lawrence, &c.,Railroad Co.
v. Unikd States, 92 U. S. 733, is quoted as sanctioning the position of the appellant. The court, speaking of the indemnity
clause in the grant then under consideration, said its purpose
was to give sections-beyond the limit designated for those lost
-within it by the action of the government between the date of
the grant and the location of the road. But it did not say that
this was its only purpose; and, if the language iiiust be construed as.ngeafiing that, it was a mere dictum, not essential to
the decision of the case. The question was, what lands could
be taken for indemnity, not for what deficiencies indemnity
could be had. And it was held that an Indian reservation did
not pass by the grant, and could not be taken as indemnity for
the lands otherwise lost from it. There was no question before the court for what deficiencies indemnity could be supplied.
As to the effect of the reservation in the third section of the
act of 1865, of lands previously granted to Minnesota, for the
purpose of aiding in the construction of any railroad, there
should be little doubt. The granit by the act of 1857 is one of
description, that is, of la-,I in place and not of quantity. It is
of every alternate section, designated by odd numbers, for six
sections on each side of the road, that is, of particular parcels of
land lying within certain defined lateral limits to the road and
described by numbers on the public surveys. And the indemnity clause provides for loss from those parcels by sales or the

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court

attachment of preginption rights before the route becomes
definitely fixed-the indemnity lands to be selected within fifteen miles from the line of the road. The act of 1865 enlArges
the quantity granted from six sections to ten, and the indemnity -limits from fifteen miles to twenty. The character of the
grant, so far as the six sections are, concerned, is not thereby
changed from one of lands.in place, .or'by description, to one
of quantity. The use of the terms 4'quantity of lands'granted"
in the first section, in referring to 'the amount granted-.by the
act of 1857, is of no significance. It is the same thing as though
the act had used the words "six sections" instead of the word
quantity, and had said ,they should be increased to fen sections.
The four sections are to be selected by the Secretary of the Interior beyond the six and within the twenty miles limit; and
as to them the grant may be regarded as one of quantity,
though the coterminous principle applies to them, and they are
to be selected along and opposite the completed road.
The reservation of the lands previously granted to Minnesota
from the grant of the additional four sections, that is, from the
extension of the original grant of 1857, was only a legislative
declaration, of that which the law would have pronounced independently of it. Previous grants of the same property would
necessarily be excluded from subsequent ones. The only embarrassment in the construction of the section arises from the
inapt words used to describe the land from which' the previous
grant is to be deducted. The language of the section is "that
any lands which may have been granted to the Territory or
State of Minnesota for the purpose of aiding in the construction
of any railroad, which lands' may be located within the limits
of this extension of such grant or grants, shall be deducted from
the full quantity of lands hereby granted." The only lands
granted by the act of 1865 are the four sections for each mile
additional to the original six, accompanied with a right to select
indemnity lands within twenty miles of the road. The words,
"the full quantity granted," only denote the entire extension.
To the extent of the previous grant that extension must be reduced, even if the whole be taken. Those words do not transfer the loss from the ten sections within which the grant falls

KANSAS PACIFIC RY. CO. v. DUNMEYER.
Syllabus.

to other sections along the line. The sections in which stich
gratt falls are correspondingly reduced.
It follows that where the grant previously made to Minnesota to aid in the construction of the Minnesota and Cedar Valley Railroad interferes with the extension of the grant to the
defendant by the act of 1865, the extension must be abandoned.
The earlier grant takes the land which would otherwise be
added to the original six sections. The court below therefore
erred in holding that the Winona Company was entitled to ten
full sections where such interference occurred, without deducting the lands previously granted to the State.
The cause must, therefore, go back that the proper deduction
may be made by reason of this interference of the two grants,
and the elder grait be deducted from the extension made by
the act of 1865.
.Decree reversed, and cause r'enunded, with d'iecti8o

to take

furthrproeedinpin accordanwe with thig opinion.

KANSAS PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANqTY v,. DUNMEYER.
IN ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
Argued November 6, 1884.-Decided March 2. 185.
The line of definite location of a railroad, which determines the rights of railroad companies to land under land grant acts of Congress, is definitely
fixed, within the meaning of those acts, by filing the map of its location
with the Commissioner of the General Land Office at Washington.
Under the acts granting lands to aid in the construction of a line of railroad
from the Missouri Riiver to the Pacific Ocean, the claim of a homestead, or
pre-emption entry, made at any time before the filing of that map in the
General Land Office, had attached, within the meaning of those statutes,
and no land to which such right had attached came within the grant.
The subsequent failure of the person making such claim to'comply with the
acts of Congress concerning residence, cultivation Und building on the land,
or his actual abandonment of the claim, does not cause it to revert to the
railroad company and become a part of the grant. The claim having at-

