PEARCE v. HAM.

-585

Syllabus.

ual condition when this suit was instituted; but the State did
not, by granting the original and amended charter, preclude
herself from seeking, by proper judicial proceedings, to reclaim
the franchises and privileges she had given, when they should
be so misused as to defeat the objects of her grant, or when the
company had become insolvent so as not to be able to meet the
obligations which, under the authority of the State, it had assumed to policy-holders and creditors.
The whole argument in behalf of the company proceeds upon
the erroneous assumption that this court has authority to determine whether the facts make a case under the statutes of
1869 and 1874, and if it be found they did not, that it must
enforce the right of the company to continue in business, despite
the final judgment to the contrary by the courts of the State
which created it; whereas, we have only to inquire whether
the statutes in question impair the obligation of any contract
which the company has with the State, or violate any other
provision of the National Constitution. Being of opinion that
they are not open to any objection of that character, the judgment must be affirmed without any reference to the weight
of the evidence upon any issue of fact made by the pleadings.
Jdgrzent aflrmed.

PEA-RCE & Another v. IM
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN

DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

Submitted January 9, 1585.-Decided March 2,188.

F contracted with a county to construct a public building, and gave bond with
K as surety for the performance of the contract. F abandoned the contract. After procuring some modifications in ft at request of H, It as.
signed the contract to P and H as partners with equal interests. P and
H agreed with W to construct the building. H then left the vicinity
and engaged in other work elsewhere. W constructed the building. K
received the compensation under the original contract, paid W in -full

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.
for the work done by him, and divided the profits with P, claiming to be
partner. Held, That- H could recover one-half of 'the profits from P and

from K.

The facts which make the case are stated in the opinion of
the court.
-Mr.Joh .E. .Palme for appellants.
.Mrs. &SamuelP. Theeler for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE. WooDs delivered the opinion of thb court.
'The bill was filed by -Charles I. Ham, the. appellee, against
Isaac N{. Pearce and Andrew .J. Kuykendall, the appellants.
The record showed the following, facts: On August 5, 1868,
one Joseph K. Frick entered into a contract in writing of that
date -with the County Court of Johnsbn County, in the State
of Illinois, by which he. agreed to build, according to certain
plans and specifications, a court-house for said'county, at
Vienna, the county seat, furnishing the material'and completing it by the first Monday of September, 1870, in consideration
wliereof the County Court agreed to pay him $38,357 in -the
bonds of Johnson County, bearing ten per cent. interest, and
due in six years. The bonds were to be paid in instalments,
one-fourth at the time of the execution of the contract, onefourth when the work was half done, one-fourth when the work
was three-fourths done, and the residuie when it was completed.
Frick, to secure the performanc6 of his contract, executed to
the judges of tho Coifuty Court, a bond in the penal sum of
$20,000, with the -appellafit, Andrew J. uykendall as his
surety.
Frick never did .aty .work w,'the building, and, owing to
some misunderstaniding With the County Court, abandoned the
contract, and Ibld K.iykendall that he might go on and build
the court-hb6se. .if-. he chose to do so.. On September 9, 1869,
Kuykendall, as-the *agentand attorney in fact of Frick, assigned
the contract of the latter to Ham and Pearce, Ham being the
appellee, and Pearce one of the appellants, who had formed a
partnership f&r: the, purpose of -building the court-house under
said contract.

PEARCE v. HAM_
Opinion of the Court.

Before accepting the assignment, Ham, who was a practical
mechanic, read the contract and made an estimate of the cost
of the building according to the plans and specifications, and
told Pearce "that there was no moiey in the contract." He
therefore- suggested six changes in the plan which would
greatly reduce the cost, and would not detract from the general
utility of the building, and explained them to the County Court.
-The court, without insisting-on any reduction in the price to be
paid, agreed that the changes might be made, and suggested
two others, to which Ham assented, and, with the original contract of Frick thus modified, Ham and Pearce accepted the
assignment of the con'tract and undertook to perform it.
About'October 1, 1869, they begun work on the building,
did some excavating fo the foundation, and quarried and delivered some stone. This work was carried on under the
supervision of Ham, and amounted in value to $690, the most
of which was paid by Pearce, but the sum so paid was afterwards refunded to him.
Afterwards Ham, believing that the work of building the
court-house could be sub-let so as to afford a large profit to
Pearce and himself, with that view entered upon a treaty with
one Wickwire, and,. on December 8, 1869, Wickwire having
assented to the terms proposed by Ham, the firm of Ham &
Pearce made a contract in writing, of that date, with Wickwire, by which he agreed to furnish the materials and build
the court-house according to the modified plans and specifications, and to complete it by the first day of November, 1870,
in consideration whereof Ham & Pearce agreed to pay him
$27,300 in the bonds of Johnson County, at par, in four equal
instalments, the first when Wickwire began the work, the
second when one-third, the third when three-fourths, and the
f6urth _when all the work was completed. Ham told Wickwire that he should probably be in Vienna and see him every
day, and if so he would render him all the assistance in his
power in the erection of the building and the negotiation of
the bonds. Kuykendall, as the agent of Frick, had already received from the County Court one-fourth of the bonds which
they were to pay for the building of the court-house, and at

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

once turned over to Pearce bonds of the -ftevalue of betveen
$8,000 and $9,000, "and a special county order for $400.
Having made the contract with Wickwire, Ham left Vienna,
and about February 1, 1870, engaged in the construction of a
piece of railroad in Indiana, which he had contracted to build,
and did not return until, the cburt-house. was completed.
Wickwire, under the supervision and inspection of an agent
appointed, by the County Court, did, in fact, furnish the materials and build the court-house according to the plans and specificatiofis specified in Frick's contat as subsequently modified.
The work and materials .seem to. have been in all respects
satisfactory to the County CQurt, who accepted the court-house
and paid the contract price, $38,357, in the bonds of Johnson
County, at par.
These bonds wve delivered in instalments by the County
-Court 'to Kuykenall, who used them either directly or indirectly to pay Wickwire the amount which he was to receive
for the building of the court-house. and divided the residue
between himself and Pearce. The object of the suit was to ob,tain an account of what was
due to Ham by virtue of his said partnership and partnership
enterprise, and that Pearce and Kuykendall might be decreed
to pay him what might be found due on such accounting either
in cash or Johnson County bonds.
Upon final hearing upon the pleadings and evidence, the Circuit Court rendered a decree in favor of Ham against Kuykendall and. Pearce for $5,001. The appeal of Kuykendall and
Pearce brings that decree under review.
Ham and- Pearce, it is conceded on all hands, engaged as
partners in the entbrprise of building a court-house for the
county of Johnson. It plainly appea.rhtnam secured such
a modification of the plan and specificati6ns of- the court-house
as to enable Pearce and himself to build it at a profit, and not
at a loss; that after this modification the contract by which
Frick had engaged to erect the building was assigned to Ham &
Pearce by Kuykendall, acting as attorney in fact for Frick, and
that Ham & Pearce sub-let the contract to Wickwire on such
t~rms as would yield them a profit of at least $10,000. Ham's

IREARCE v. HAM.
Opinion of the Court.

interest was worth, as it turned out, not less than $5,000.
Without his consent, Ham's share of the profits of his partnership venture was appropriated' by Kuykendall and Pearce.
These facts alone considered justify the decree of the Circuit
Court, and that decree should be affirmed, unless the reasons
assigned by Pearce and Kuykendall afford good ground for the
appropriation by them of Ham's share in the profits of the
enterprise.
The answers of both Pearce and Kuykendall, which were not
under oath, alleged that after the contract- between Ham &
Pearce with Wickwire had been made, Pearce, on account of
the absence and neglect of Ham, cancelled the contract, and
Kuykendall cancelled the assignment to Ham & Pearce of the
contract of Frick. But it appears from their testimony that this
was only a mental operation. There was, in fact, no cancellation of either the Wickwire contract or of the assignment of
the Frick contract.- Pearce handed a copy of the Wickwire
contract to Kuykendall to be cancelled, but Kuykendall immediately returned it to him uncancelled for safe keeping.
The assignment of the Frick ,contract was allowed to remain
uncancelled upon the records of the County Court. What was
done, as plainly appears by the testimony of Pearce and Kuykendall, was this: Wickwire, without any new contract in writing between him and Kuykendall or between him and Kuykendall and Pearce, was allowed to perform, and did perform
without any change whatever in its terms, the contract entered
into by him with Ham & Pearce. Kuykendall simply took
Ham's place in the enterprise, agreeing verbally with Wickwire that he would negotiate the county bonds at ninety cents
on the dollar.
One excuse given for this is stated by Pearce to be that when
hewent into the enterprise with Ham -it was with the expectation that Ham, who was a practical builder, would superintend the work, and that he himself would manage the financial affairs of the partnership. But this was the understanding
when they expected to carry out the. contract themselves, and
the necessity for any supervision of the work or financial management mainly ended when they sub-let the contrat to Wi~k-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

wire. He carried on the work apparently with fidelity, and
certainly to the satisfaction of the County Court, under the
eye of a supervisor appointed by the court. The only financial
duty to be performed by Pearce under the contract of Ham
& Pearce with Wickwire was to draw the county bonds as the
work progressed, and hand them over to Wickwire as he be
came entitled to them. There was no necessity for the supervision of Ham, and it is not alleged or shown that any delay
or damage resulted for want of his supervision.
Some other pretext was needed for putting Ham out of the
enterprise and taking Kuykendall in. This was found in' the
alleged fact that Ham had agreed with Wickwire to assist him
in negotiating the county bonds, or enough of them to raise
$5,000, and had left the neighborhood and failed to perform
that part of his contract, and that Wickwire for want of $5,000 in cash-was unable and refused to proceed with the construction of the building. Thereupon it became necessary for
Kuykendall, who insisted that he was liable as surety for Frick
for the building of the court-house, to take Ham's place and
negotiate the bonds so that the work might proceed to completion within the.time limited by the Frick contract.
But the written contract with Wickwire, which embocuea
the result of his treaty with Ham & Peatce, contained no provision by which the latter bound themselves to negotiate the
bonds for Wickwire. He agreed to receive the bonds themselves as his compensation. Whatever Ham may have said to
Wickwire about negotiating the bonds was a mere voluntary
and conditional offer and formed no part of the consideration
for the contract, and the absence of Ham and his failure to
help sell the bonds, did not release Wickwire from his obligation to perform his contract; nor could the neglect of Ham tO
perform his individual promise, made not to Pearce but to Wickwire, furnish a ground upon which Pearce could legally dissolve his partnership with Ham without Ham's consent.
But the testimony in the record is abundant to show that the
bonds sold readily at their market price, which was not less
than ninety cents on the dollar. They were the bonds of a
solvent county and bore ten per cent. interest payable annually,

PEARCE v. HA.
Opinion of the Court.

and no sort of defence to them had ever, so far as appears,
been raised. There was, therefore, no reason why they should
not feadily sell for ninety cents on the dollar, which was the
price Wickwire was willing to take for them. Anybody could
have sold them. But the hollowness of his excuse for turning
Ham out of his enterprise and taking Kuykendall in, is found
in the fact that when Wickwire came to Pearce and told him
he could not go on with the contract f6r want of $5,000 in
money, Pearce had in his possession between $8,000 and $9,000 in Johnson County bonds, with more than one year's interest at ten per cent. due thereon, and over $400 in a special
order, turned over to him by Kuykendall as the agent of Frick,
and being part of the first instalment on the contract for
building the court-house. These bonds and the special order
were without question the property of the partnership of Ham
& Pearce. All that it was necessary for Pearce to do was to
sell the bonds and furnish Wickwire with the money he said
he wanted, or hand him the bonds. Wickwire testifies that if
the bonds had been handed him he thinks he would have begun
the work. But Pearce, according to his own testimony, never
offered Wickwire the bonds, or even informed him that he had
them in his possession, and he does not aver or swear that he
made any effort to sell the bonds; and, although he avers in his
answer that he tried to raise the $5,000 for Wickwire, he does
not testify to the fact in his deposition. It, therefore, plainly
appears from the, evidence, that when Wickwire told Pearce
that he could not begin the work for want of $5,000 in money,
the latter had assets of the firm of Ham & Pearce in his hands
to the amount of nearly $10,000, which could have been readily
disposed of at ninety cents on the dollar; and it does not appear that Pearce made any effort to sell the bonds or in any
other way raise the sum needed.
There is nothing in the testimony to show that Pearce did
anything more towards carrying on the business enterprise of
the firm of Ham & Pearce than was done by Ham. He did not
superintend the work, or manage the finances of the firm. His
only part in the business of building the court-house appears
to have been to keep partial hnd fragmentary accounts for

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

Kuykendall. It is true that, by some arrangement with
Wickwire, he accepted the orders of Kuykendall, given for
labor and materials, and paid them in' merchandise to the
amount of about $20,000; but this was his own private business
as a merchant, carried on for his individual profit.
In his answer, Kuykendall bases his defence on the ground,
that all he did in the matter was in the interest of Frick, and as
his agent, and to protect himself against his liability as surety
on Frick's bond. But, when he testifies in the case, it appears
that he was acting for himself only, and proposed to keep his
share of the profits made in the erection of the court-house.
He knew that when Wickwire was asserting that he could not
begin the work for want of $5,000 in cash, Pearce had Johnson
County bonds belonging to the firm of Ham & Pearce, which
could have been readily turned into cash at 90 cents on the dollar, sufficient to raise between $5,000 and $9,000, for he himself
had delivered these bonds to Pearce fQr the firm. He knew,
therefore, that the excuse of Pearce, that he could not raise
money for Wickwire, was a subterfuge. Both he and Pearce
knew that Ham had not abandoned the enterprise, for, in the
spring of 1870, Pearce visited Ham in Indiana, and proposed to
him that they should allow Kuykendall an interest of one-third
in their venture, and that Ham declined to accede to the
proposition.
Kuykendall testifies that he sold $16;000 of the county bonds
for 80 cents on the dollar, but he does not mention the name of
any purchaser -at that price, and no witness testifies that he
ever bought a bond for Iess than 90 cents, except one, who says
he bought two bonds, not of Kuykendallj but of one McDemot,
who at first asked 85 or 90 cents on the dollar for this bond,
but afterwards took T5 cents, because, as he said, "he was bound
to have some money." But even if Kuykendall did sell a part
of the bonds at 80 cents on the dollar, he cannot impose upon
Ham a loss incident to his own unwarrantable interference in
Ham's affairs.
In their answers both Pearce and Kuykendall aver that after
the alleged cancellation of the contract between Ham & Pearce
and Wickwire, Pearce had no lurther concern with the enter-

PEARCE v. HAM.
Opinion of the Court.

prise or interest therein, and Kuykendall avers that, as agent of
Frick, he sub-let the contract to Wickwire. But in his deposition Kuykendall testifies that he divided equally with Pearce
the profits made on the contract, which statement is not cohtradicted by Pearce in his testimony.
Ham had an interest in the assets and prospective profits of
the firm of Ham & Pearce. It does not appear that he failed
to perform any duty which, as a member of the firm of Ham
& Pearce, he had undertaken to perform, or that, with good
faith 'on the part of Pearce, the partnership enterprise couldnot have been successfully carried out. And however the question may be decided, whether one partner may by his own mere
will dissolve a partnership formed for a definite purpose or
period, it is clear that upon such a dissolution one partner can
not appropriate to himself all the partnership assets, or turn
over the share of his partner to another with whom he proposes
to form a new partnership.
The case, as presented by the evidence,, is this: Pearce
undertook, without any just cause, to exclude Ham, his partner,
from an interest in a valuable contract, in which they were
equally concerned, and to take in Kuykendall in his stead, and
'Kuykendall, knowing that Pearce could not rightfully exclude
Ham, conspired with Pearce to accomplish that purpose, and
undertook to appropriate to himself the profits of the contract
which of right belonged to Ham.. It is clear that these actings
and doings of Kuykendall and Pearce had no effect on the
rights of Ham; that he is entitled to one-half of the profits of
the contract. This conclusion finds ample support, if support
be needed, in the case of Ambler v. TVivdple, 20 Wall. 546.
The profits are easily ascertained. They would have consisted of $10,000 in the bonds of Johnson County, bearing ten
per cent. interest, and, at the time of the bringing of this suit,
there~was at least three years' interest due on the 'bonds,
makinig in principal and interest $13,000. Estimating the
bonds to be worth only j90 cents on the dollar, the amount due
Ham exceeded the decree rendered in his favor by the Circuit
Court, even after allowing Kuykendall a reasonable compensation for any services rendered by him.
VOr. C=fj-8

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabus.

The entire profits were appropriated by Pearce and KuykendaU, and they must account to Ham for his share.
ed.
-Decree a

AYERS & Another v. WATSON.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES 'FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
Argued November 11, 1884.-Decided March 2, 1885.
The ruling in Hyde v. Ruble, 104 U. S. 407, that clause 2, ยง 639 Rev. Stat.
as to removal of causes, was suspended and repealed by the act of March 3,
1875, 18 Stat. 470, reaffirmed.
2 of the act of March 3, 1875, defining the cases in which causes may be
removed from State, courts to Circuit Courts of the United States, being
fundamental and based on the grant of judicial power, its conditions are
indispensable-cannot be waived-and must be shown by the record.
ยง 3 of that act not being jurisdictional, but a m re rule of limitation, its requirements may be waived.
The party at whose instance a cause is removed from a State court is estopped
from objecting that the removal was not made within the'time required by
3 of the act of March 3, 18;5, 18 Stat. 470.
The general rule in Texas for construing descriptions in grants of land is: that
natural objects control artificial objects; that artificial objects control
courses and distances; that course controls distance; and that course and
distance control quantity.
A grant of land in Texas was made to the grantor of the plaintiff in error,
with the following description: " Beginning the survey at a pecan (nogal)
fronting the mouth of the aforesaid creek, which pecanl serves as a landmark for the first corner, and from which 14 varas to the north 590 west
there is a backberry 24 in. dia., and 15 varas to the south 34' west there is
an elm 12 in. dia ; a line was rn to the north 22' east 22,960 varas and
planted a'stake in the prairie for the second corner. Thence another line
was run to the south 70* east, at 8,000 varas crossed a branch of the creek
called Cow Creek, at 10,600 varas crossed the principal branch of said
creek, and at 12,580 varas two small hackberries serve as landmarks for
the third corner. Thence another line was run to the south 20' west, and
at 3,520 varas crossed the said Cow Creek, and at 26,400 varas to a tree
(palo) on the aforesaid margin of the river San Andres, which tree is called
in English ' box elder,' from which 7 varas to the south 28' west there is
a cottonwood with two trunks and 16 varas to the south 110 east there is an

