OCTOBER TERM,, 1884.
Statement ot Facts.

These views make it unnecessary to consider other questions
argued by eounsel, and lead to an affirmance of the judgment.
Judgment aflfrnwd.

MAXWELL'S EXEOUTORS v. WILKINSON &'Others.
IN ERROR tO THE CIRCUIT COITRT OF -THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.
Submitted January 28, 188.-Decided March 2, 1885.

A memorandum in writing of a transaction twenty months before its date, and
which the person who made the memorandum testifies that he has no recollection of, but knows it took place because he had so stated in the memorandum, and because his habit was never to sign a statement unless it was
true, cannot be read in aid of his testimony.

This is a writ of errcr by the executors of a former collector
of the port of New York to revers6 a judgment in an action
brought against him by the defendants in error on January 11,
1855, to recover back the amount of duties paid by them on
imported iron on October 23, 1852.
Upon a trial of that action on December 16, 1856, a verdict
was taken for the plaintiffs by consent, subject to the opinion
of the court upon a case to be made. On March 30, 1883, the
plaintiffs moved to set aside that verdict, and the motion was
afterwards granted, on their stipulating to waive interest from
the date of the verdict to the date of the motion.
Upon a second trial, the main question was whether the
duties had been paid under protest. The plaintiffs introduced
evidence tending to show that the entry of the goods, towhich
any protest would have been attached, could not be found at
the custom house, and called William S. Doughty, a clerk of
their consignees, who produced a copy of a protest, purporting
to be dated October 13, 1852, and to be signed by the consignees, and having upon it these two memoranda -First, in
pencil, "Handed in on the 23d day of October, 1852." Second,

MAXWELL v. WILKINSON.
Statement of Facts.

in ink, "The above protest was handed to the collector the 23d
day of October, 1852. New York, June 16th, 1854. Win. S.
Doughty."
Doughty, on direct examination, testified that he handed the
original, of which this was a copy, to the collector on October
23, 1852. Being then cross-er' mined by leave of the court, he
testified that the memorandum in ink was written by him on.
June 16, 1854; that he had previously made the memorandum
in pencil so as to be able to make a statement in ink at some
future time; that he did not know when he made the pencil
memorandum; that he could not tell, otherwise than as his
memory was refreshed by the memorandum, that he ever filed a
protest with the collector; that he had no recollection now that
he filed such a protest; but that he must have done it because
it was his duty to do it; and that he was willing to swear positively that he did so, because he had signed a statement to that
effect, and his habit was never to sign a statement unless it was
true. The witness then, by permission of the court, voluntarily
stated as follows: "cThe fact that the statement was made two
years after was when there was sufficient data for me unquestionably to make that statement at the time two years afterwards. Probably there were memoranda which were destroyed
long ago."
The defendant's counsel thereupon objected to the admission
in evidence of the alleged copy of, the protest, "upon the
ground that the witness testifies that he has no recollection of
the fact of th6 service of the original upon the collector at or
prior to the time of the payment in question, and thal the memorandum referred to by the.witness, as the basis of his willingness to swear to the fact without any recollection, was not
made for nearly two years after the transaction to which it relates, and that the data upon which the witness made the
memorandum to which he refers are not produced or shown."
The court overruled the objection, and admitted the copy of
the protest in evidence, and, a verdict being returned for the
plaintiffs, allowed a bill of exceptions to its admission.
.Xr. Solicitor-Generalfor plaintiffs in error.
voL cxn-42

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

!r.
A.

. GWswold for defendants in error.

MR.JUSTICE GRAY delivered the opinion of the court. He
recited the facts in the foregoing language, and continued :
The witness, according to his own 'testimony, had no recollection, either independently of the memoranda, or assisted by
them, that he had filed a protest with the collector; did not
know when he made the memorandum in pencil; made the
memotandum in ink twenty months after the transaction, from
the memorandum in pencil, and probably other memoranda,
since destroyed and not produced, nor their contents proved;
and his testimony that he did file the protest was based
exclusivelyupon his having signed a statement to that effect
twenty months afterwards, and upon his habit never to sign a
statement unless it was true.
Memoranda are not competent evidence by reason of having
been made in the regular course of business, unless contemporaneous with the transaction to which they relate. Nicholls v.

Webb, 8 Wheat. 326, 337; Insurance Co. v. IFeide, 9 Wall. 677,
and 14 Wall. 375; Chaffee v. 1nited States, 18 Wall. 516.
It is well settled that memoranda are inadmissible to refresh
the memory of a witness, unless reduced to writing at or shortly
after the time of the transaction, and while it must have been
fresh in his memory. The memorandum must have been
"presently committed to writing," Lord Holt in Sandwell v.
Sandwell, Comb. 445 ; S. 0.Holt, 295; "while the occurrences
mentioned in it were recent, and fresh in his recollection,"
Lord Ellenborough in Bu~rougkv. -Yartin,2 Camp.112; "written contemporaneously with the transaction," Chief Justice
Tindal in Steinleller v. -Newton, 9 Car. & 1. 313 ; or "contemporaneously or nearly so with the facts deposed to," Chief
Justice Wilde (afterwards Lord Chancelloi Truro) in TVM-feld
v. Aland, 2 Car. & K. 1015. See also Burton v. Plumer,2
Ad. & El. 341 ; S. C. 4 Nev.& Man. 315 ; Wood v. Cooper, 1
Car. & K. 645; 3forison v. Chain,97 Mass. 72, 77; Spring
Garden Ins. Co. v. Evans, 15 Maryland, 54.
The reasons for limiting the time within which the memorandum must have been made are, to say the least, quite as

FLAGG v. WALKER.
Syllabus.

strong when the witness, after reading it, has no -recollection
of the facts stated in it, but testifies to the truth of those facts
only because of his confidence that he must have known them
to be true when he signed the memorandum. Haeey v. Sinebaugh,15 N. Y. 485; .Xarclyv. Shults, 29 N. Y. 34 6 ,355; State
v. RawlM, 2 Nott & McCord, 331; O'.Teall v. Walton', 1 Rich.
234.
In any view of the case, therefore, the'copy of the protest
was erroneously admitted, bechuse the memorandum in ink,
which was tke only one on which the witness relied, was made
long after the transaction which it purported to state; and its
admission requires that the
Judgment be reversed, and a new trial ordered.

FLAGG & Another v. WALKER.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUrr COD7T OF THE UITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHPERl DISTRIOT OF ILLINOIS.
Argued January 16, M85.-DecIded March 2, 1885.

A, being embarrassed, conveyed by deed absolute several parcels of land in
Illinois to B, amobg which were a tract known as ",
the pasture," encumbered by a mortgage to 0 ; other tracts occupied by shops and tenements;
and "the homestead," also encumbered with a mortgage. B agreed verbally to advance to A and wife $1,500 a year for four years ; to dispose of
the property conveyed to him ; to apply the proceeds'to the payment of A's
debts ; and to divide equally between himself and them what might remain
at the end of four years. Subsequently B made and delivered, and they
received and accepted, a written agreement substantially to that effect, and
further providing that B's liability to C should not exceed th amount realized from sale of "the pasture ;" that the deed to B was absolute for all
purposes ; and that B was to hav cle free and unobstructed control and
ownership of the property. B remained for some time in possession ; paid
sundry debts due from A ; made advances in cash for A's use and for taxes
and repairs ; and advanced money for and took an assignment to himself of
the mortgage on "the homestead." A then resumed possession, and subsequently thereto the mortgage on "the pasture" was foreclosed and the
property sold. Held, (1) That the relation of B to A and his wife was

