OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Syllabus.

The entire profits were appropriated by Pearce and KuykendaU, and they must account to Ham for his share.
ed.
-Decree a

AYERS & Another v. WATSON.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES 'FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
Argued November 11, 1884.-Decided March 2, 1885.
The ruling in Hyde v. Ruble, 104 U. S. 407, that clause 2, § 639 Rev. Stat.
as to removal of causes, was suspended and repealed by the act of March 3,
1875, 18 Stat. 470, reaffirmed.
2 of the act of March 3, 1875, defining the cases in which causes may be
removed from State, courts to Circuit Courts of the United States, being
fundamental and based on the grant of judicial power, its conditions are
indispensable-cannot be waived-and must be shown by the record.
§ 3 of that act not being jurisdictional, but a m re rule of limitation, its requirements may be waived.
The party at whose instance a cause is removed from a State court is estopped
from objecting that the removal was not made within the'time required by
3 of the act of March 3, 18;5, 18 Stat. 470.
The general rule in Texas for construing descriptions in grants of land is: that
natural objects control artificial objects; that artificial objects control
courses and distances; that course controls distance; and that course and
distance control quantity.
A grant of land in Texas was made to the grantor of the plaintiff in error,
with the following description: " Beginning the survey at a pecan (nogal)
fronting the mouth of the aforesaid creek, which pecanl serves as a landmark for the first corner, and from which 14 varas to the north 590 west
there is a backberry 24 in. dia., and 15 varas to the south 34' west there is
an elm 12 in. dia ; a line was rn to the north 22' east 22,960 varas and
planted a'stake in the prairie for the second corner. Thence another line
was run to the south 70* east, at 8,000 varas crossed a branch of the creek
called Cow Creek, at 10,600 varas crossed the principal branch of said
creek, and at 12,580 varas two small hackberries serve as landmarks for
the third corner. Thence another line was run to the south 20' west, and
at 3,520 varas crossed the said Cow Creek, and at 26,400 varas to a tree
(palo) on the aforesaid margin of the river San Andres, which tree is called
in English ' box elder,' from which 7 varas to the south 28' west there is
a cottonwood with two trunks and 16 varas to the south 110 east there is an

AYERS v. -WATSON.
Opinion of the Court.
elm 15 in. dia. Thence following up the river by its meanders to the beginning point, and comprising a plane area of eleven leagues of land or 275
millions of square varas." The evidence showed that the lines, when run
on these courses and distances, did not coincide with ascertained monuments, either called for in the grant, or conceded to mark the track of
a survey of the tract made in 1883. Two marked hackberry. trees were
found in 1854 iUthe bastern line, but not at the point called for by the description. If the courses and distances were followed,' this grant covered
most of the claim of defendant in error. If the two hackberry trees found
in 1854 were the ones described in the grant, it would not, include any of
that claim. Held :
(1) That a request by defendant below (plaintiff in error), for an instruction
"that a call for two small hackberries at the end of the distance on the
course called for, having no marks on them to aesiguate them from other
trees of the same kind and having no bearing trees to designate or locate
them, is not a call for such a natural object as will control the call for
course and distance. And the jury are not authorized to consider any
evidence in this case about two small hackberries'found by S. A. Bigham,
and by him pointed out to various other persong, which are found more
than a mile from the point where course and distance would place the S. E.
corner of the 11-league grant," was properly overruled;
(2) That the jury should have been told *" that if the testimony was not sufficient to identify the two ackherries with those calleifor in the grant, and
could not fix the northeast corner nor the back line by any other marks or
monuments, then they should fix it by the courses and distances of the
first and second lines of the survey, except that the second line should be
extended so as to meet the recognized east line as marke and extended
beyond the hackberries; "and
(8) That the instructions actually given failed to put this to the jury with
sufficient distinctness.

Trespass, to try title. The facts which make this case, both
on the jurisdiction of the court and du the merits, are stated
in the opinion of the court.
-Y.

IF. TF. Boyce for plaintiffs in error.

Mr. I. .

Goodrick filed a brief for defendant in error.

MR. JSTiCE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action of trespass to try title of certain land in
Bell County, Texas, originally brought in the District Court
of said county by Watson, the defendant in error, against the
plaintiffs in error and one Anderson. The land claimed was

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court

described inthe petition as a tract lying in said county of Bell,
about fifteen miles northeast by north from the three forks of
Little River, stating the boundaries. The defendants excepted
to the petition for insufficiency of law, and also pleaded not
guilty. One of them, Frank Ayers, 'pleaded specially that he'
was owner in fee simple of a tract of eleven leagues granted
by the government of Coahiiila and Texas to Maximo Moreno
in the year 1833, describing its metes and bounds; and he
alleged that the land described in the plaintiff's petition and
claimed by him under some pretended patent from the Stateof Texas to the heirs of one W. W. Daws; deceased, was embraced within the boundaries of said eleven-league grant, which
was an elder and superior title.
Anderson pleaded separately that he was occupying the
Moreno grant as tenant of Ayers; and especially that 100
acres, including, improvements, where he resided (describing
its situation), was held by him under said MNloreno title; that
he had been in possession of said land for more than twelve
months 'before the institution of this suit, adversely and in
good faith; and he claimed the value of his improvements if
the court should hold the plaintiff entitled to cover.
The plaintiff's original petition was filed in Auust, 1877,
and the amended petitioft and pleas were filed in April, 1879.
The cause was first tried in April, 1879, and again in April,
1880, and on both occasions the juties disagreed. Ayers then
presented a petition for the removal of the cause to the Circuit
Court of the United States, alleging that he was a citizen of
the State of Mississippi, and that the plaintiff was a citizen of
Texas, and that there could be a final determination of the
controversy, so far as he was concerned, without the presence
of the other defendants as parties in the cause. The court
granted the petition and the cause was removed, no objection
to the removal being made either then or in the Circuit Court
afterwards. But after the issuing of the present writ of error
from this court, the plaintiffs in error, at the instance of one of
whom (Frank Ayers) the cause was removed, assigned for
error, amongst. other things, that the Circuit Court erred in
taking jurisdiction of the cause.

AYERS vv. WATSONi.
Opinion of the Court.

In view of the position of the party who raises the objection
we certainly should not feel disposed to reverse the judgment
on the ground -f the removal of the cause, unless it was clear
that the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction whatever to hear and
determine it. The only reasons assigned, before us for the
want of jurisdiction are-first, that it did not appear that the
matter in dispute exceeded, exclusive of costs, the value of
$500; secondly, that the application for removal was too late.
The first reason has no foundation in fact. The plaintiff's
petition demanded the recovery of the land and $500 damages.
This was certainly a demand for more than $500, unless it can
be supposed that the land itself was worth nothing at all, which
will hardly be presumed.
The second reason is more serious. The application for removal was beyond question too late according to the act of
1875, though not so under the act of 1866 as codified in :Rev.
Stat. § 639, clause 2, which allows the petition for removal to
be filed "at any time before the trial or final hearing of the
cause." This language has been held to apply to the last and
final hearing. A mis-trial by disagreement of the jury did not
take away the right of removal. See I urane Co. v. .Dunn,
19 Wall. 214; Steven,r v. William8, 19 Wall. 572; 7annevar
v..Bryant, 21 Wall. 41; Railroad Co. v. XcJinley, 99 U. S.
147. But we have held that this clause of § 639 was superseded and repealed by the act of 1875. Hyde v.Ruble, 104:
U. S. 07, 410; King v. Corn.ell, 106 U. S. 395; Holland v.
Chambers, 110 U. S. 59. We are compelled, therefore, to examine the effect of the act of 1875 upon the jurisdiction of the
court when the application is made at a later period of. time
than is .allowed by that act.
By § 2 of the act of 1875, any suit of a civil nature, at law
or in equity, brought in a State court, where the matter in
dispute exceeds the value of $500, and arising under the
Constitution or laws of the United States, or. in which the
United States is plaintiff, or in which there is a controversy
between citizens of different States, or a controversy between
citizens of the same State claiming lands under grants of different States, or a controversy between citizens of a State and

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

foreign State, citizens or subjects, either party may remove
said suit into the Circuit Court of the United States for the
proper district, and when in any such suit there is a controversy
wholly between citizens of different States, which can be fully
determined as between them, one or more of the plaintiffs or
defendants actually interested in such controversy may remove
said suit to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
proper district. This is the fundamental section, based on the
constitutional grant of judicial power. The succeeding sections
relate to the forms of proceeding to effect the desired removal.
By § 3 it is provided that a petition must be filed in the State
court before or at the term at which the cause can be first
tried, and before the trial thereof, for the removal of the suit
into the Circuit Court, and with such petition a bond, with
condition, as prescribed in the act. The second section defines
the cases in which a removal may be made; the third prescribes
the mode of obtaining it, and the time within which it should
be applied for. In the nature of things, the sdcond section is
jurisdictional, and the third is but modal and formal. The
conditions of the second section are indispensable, and must be
shown by the record; the directions of the third, though obligatory, may to a certain extent be waived. Diverse State
citizenship of the parties, or some other jurisdictional fact prescribed by the second section, is absolutely essential, and cannot be waived, and the want of it will be error at any stage of
the cause, even though assigned by the party at whose instance
it was committed. Mansfield & Coldwater Railway Co. v.
Swan, 111 U. S."379. Application in due time, and the proffer
of a proper bond, as required in the third section, are also
essential if insisted on, but, according to the ordinary principles
which govern such cases, may be waived, either expressly or
by implication. We see no reason, for example, why the other
party may not waive the required bond, or any informalities in
it, or informalities in the petition, provided it states the jurisdictional facts; and if these are not properly stated, there is
no good reason why an amendment should not be allowed, so
that they may be properly stated. $6,as it seems to us, there
is no good reason why the other party may not also waive the

AYERS v. WATSON .
Opinion of the Court.

objection as to the time within which the application for removal is made. It does not belong to the essence of the thing;
it is not, in its nature, a jurisdictional matter, but a mere rule
of limitation. In some of the older cases the word Jrmsdiction
is often used somewhat loosely, and no doubt cases may. be
found in which this matter of time is spoken of as affecting
the jurisdiction of the court. We do not so regard it. And
since the removal was effected at the instance of the party who
now makes the objection, we think that he is estopped. In
Railroad Co. v. -oontz, 104 U. S. 5, 17, we held that where
the State court disregarded a petition for removal properly
made, and the plaintiff continued to prosecute the suit therein,
he would be deemed to have waived any objection to the
delay of the defendant in entering the cause in the Circuit
Court of the United States until the decision of the State court
is reversed.
We do not think that this assignment of errdr is well taken.
The case, on its merits, depends upon the correctness of the
instructions given to the jury. By agreement of the parties,
the patents or grants under which, they respectively claimed,
as set forth in the petition and answer, and their deraignment
of title under the same, were admitted on the trial,*and the
controversy was reduced to the simple question of locating the
surveys on the ground. The tract claimed by the plaintiff,
Watson, was one-third of a league, patented to the heirs of
Walter W. Daws, and its position was well ascertained and
defined; and the question was, whether it was or was not embraced in the older survey of the eleven-league grant,, owned
by the defendant Ayers, which was described in the field notes
of the grant, as follows, viz: "situated on the left margin of
the river San Andres, below the point where the creek called
Lampassas enters said river on its opposite margin, and having
the lines, limits,-boundaries, and landmarks following, to wit:
Beginning the survey at a pecan (nogal) fronting the mouth of
the aforesaid creek, which pecan serves as a land-mark for the
first corner, and from which 14 varas to the north 590 west

there is a hackberry 24 in. dia., and 15 varas to the south 340
west there is an elm 12 in. dia.; a line was run to the north

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

220 east 22,960 varas and planted a stake in the prairie for thi
second corner. Thence another line was run to the south 700
east, at 8,00 varas crossed a branch of the creek called Cow
Creek, at 10,600 varas crossed the principal branch of said
creek, and at 12,580 varas two small hackberries serve as landmark for the third corner. Thence another line was run to
the south 20' west, and at 3,520 varas crossed the said Cow
Creek, and at 26,400 varas to a tree (palo) on the aforesaid margin of the river San Andres, which tree is called in -English
' box-elder,' from which 7 varas to the south 28' west there is
a cottonwood with two trunks, and 16 varas to the south 11'
east there is an elm 15 in. dia. Thence following up the river
by its meanders to the beginning point, and comprising a
plane area of eleven leagues of land or 275 millions of square
varas."
This tract extended backward from the river, -in
a northerly
direction, from twelve to fourteen miles, and, as that was about
the distance from the river of the tract claimed by the plaintiff,
the question was whether it embraced the latter. If it did, being held by an elder title, the defendant would be entitled
to the verdict; if not, the plaintiff would be entitled to it.
Under the concessions made by the parties, the burden of
proof was devolved upon the defendant to show that his elevenleague tract extended so far back from the river as to embrace
the plaintiff's land, or any part of it.
The evidence was that of surveyors and -chain-bearers, and
tended to show the following facts, namely, that, by commencing at the beginning point of the Moreno grant (the position
of which was not disputed), and following the lines of the survey by courses and distances only, it would embrace nearly the
whole of the Daws patent; but, run in this way, the lines
would not coincide with certain well ascertained monuments,
either called for in the grant, or conceded to mark and identify
the footsteps of the surveyor who originally located it in 1833.
For example, the easterly line of the survey, which is identified by several miles of marked trees, and the southern terminus of which, at the river San Andres, is fixed by agreement of the paxties and by monuments called for-in the grant

AYERS v. WATSON.
Opinion of the Court.

itself, is situated about 570 varas, or three-tenths of a mile, east
of what its position would be if the courses and distances were
followed; and, as fixed by such monuments, if the tract were
made to extend as far back from the river as the defendant
contends, it would contain fourteen or fifteen square leagues
instead of eleven. But the point of greatest importance was
to fix the position of the northern boundary line'of the tract,
to ascertain- whether it took in or crossed the Daws patent.
This was a line described in the survey as running from the
stake set in the prairie, south 70' east, 12,580 varas, or Mexican
yards, [about 61 miles,] to two small hackberry trees. Of
course, these hackberries marked the northern terminus of the
eastern boundary line, before mentioned, which commenced
from them; and two such trees, having all the old marks and
blazes requisite, were found in said eastern boundary line (and
were adopted as the northeast corner of the tract), in the course
of an official survey, made *by the order of th6 court in 1854.
being at a distance of 26,960 varas from the river San Andres
-the distance given in the field notes of the grant, based on
calculation and not actual measurement, being 26,400 varas;
whereas, by following the courses and distances mentioned in
the grant, the easterly line, extended to the river, would be 30,760 varas in 'length, and, as before stated, would not coincide
with the marked line conceded to be the easterly line as run at
the original survey. If the northerly line of the lyoreno tract
should be located and fixed by taking for its eastern terminus
the two hackberrv trees referred to, it would not reach the plaintiff's land, but would pass south of it a full half of a mile.
The defendant, Ayers, however, disputed the identity of these
hackberry trees with those called for in the Moreno grant, and
claimed that the grant extended a mile and a half or more
farther north, which, indeed, it would do according to "the
length of the first course measured from the beginning corner;
and he adduced testimony to show some marked trees north of
the two hackberries, in the line of the eastern boundary, corresponding to his views, and some marks along the northerly
or back line, claimed by him to 'be the true line.
The controversy, therefore, was substantially reduced to this

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

alternative, namely: if the first line of the survey taken
according to its course and distance, should govern the position
of the back line, the Moreno tract would include the greatqr
part of the Daws patent; but if the two hackberry trees, discovered in 1854, were to be regarded as identical with the trees
referred to in the field notes of the survey for the northeast
corner thereof, then they would fix the position of the back
line, and the Moreno grant would not include any part of the
Daws patent.
In this state of the evidence, the judge charged the jury as
follows, omitting parts not material to the controversy here:
"The original field notes do not call for any landmark at the
intersection of the western line with the back or north line of
the survey. At the intersection of the back line with the .eastern line two small hackberries are mentionedoas serving for a
landmark to designate the corner. Our purpose and your duty
is to follow the tracks of the surveyor, so far as we can discover them on the groundcwith reasonable certainty, and where
he cannot be tracked on the ground, we have to follow the
course and distance he gives, so far as not in conflict with the
tracks we can find that he made.

.

.

.

There has been proof

given you tending to show where the two small hackberries
called for as the intersection of the eastern and north lines of
the grant actually stood, at a distance from the lower corner
on the river corresponding to the length of the eastern line of
said grant. And if the proof satisfies you that the two hackberries mentioned in the testimony of the witnesses, Sam. and
Pat Bigham, were the two hackberrieg called for and marked
by the original surveyor as a corner of said grant, in that case
a line drawn from the point where said hackberries stood, N.
7O W., until it intersects the western line of said grant, will
bound the eleven-league grant upon the north, and if the Daws
J of a league is situated wholly north of this line, it does not
conflict with said eleven-league grant, and you will find for the
plaintiff.
"If the proof does not satisfy you that said hackberries
mentioned in the testimony are the ones called for and marked
as a corner by the original surveyor, you will, from the whole

AYERS v. WATSON.
Opinion of the Court.

proof, so fix the unmarked or disputed lines called for in the
grant as in your judgment most nearly harmonizes the calls
with the known corners and the undisputed lines. -And if from
the proof, you fix these lines so as to include all or any part of
the, one-third league patented to Daws, you will find for the defendant. If you are not able to fix the disputed lines, or the
disputed portions of the lines, with reasonable certainty from
the proof, you may, taking the river as the base, and [Query
so] extend the eastern and western lines as that a line run N.
70 W. (or S. 70 E.), connecting the extremities of said side
lines, will embrace eleven leagues of land, and if said back
line so run does not include any portion of the Daws J league,
you will find for the plaintiff. If you can, from the proof,
fix the lines of this grant in harmony with its calls and the
known corners and undisputed line, the fact, if it be a fact, that
said lines would include more than eleven leagues becomes
wholly immaterial, and you will not consider the extent of the
area further than as a circumstance to aid you in construing
the other proof in the case. In seeking to fix these lines from
the proof you will bear in mind that course controls distance,
and marked trees control both course and distance."
The defendant "excepted to so much of the charge given as
reads thus" :
"If you are not able to fix the disputed lines, or the disputed
portions of the lines, with reasonable certainty from the proof,
you may, taking the rivef as a base, so extend the eastern and
western lines as that a line run N. 70' W. ( or S. 70' E.), connecting the extremities of said side lines, will embrace eleven
league of land, and if said back line so run does not include
any part of the Daws J league, you will find for the plaintiff."
The defendant then asked the court to give the following
charge, to wit:
"That a call for two small hackberries, at the end of the
distance on the course called for, having no marks on them to
designate them from other trees of the same kind, and having
no bearing trees to designate or locate them, is not a call for
such a natural object as will control the call for course and
distance., And the jury are not authorized to consider any

• OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

evidence in this case about two small hackberries found by S.
A. Bigham, and by him pointed out to various other persons,
which are found more than a mile from the point where
course and distance would place the N. E. corner of the 11league, grant."

The court refused to give said charge.
The defendant then asked the court to charge "substantially
.as follows:
1st. Thai the rules adopted by the courts as.to the calls in a
grant, giving one call superiority over another, are adopted for
the purpose of identifying the actual survey made by the surveyr-an invariable rule being that the footsteps of the
surveyor must be followed, and wherever he established the
lines and corners on the ground, there the survey must be
located.
2d. That if the jury believe from the evidence that the
Mforeno survey was actually made on the ground, by commencing at the beginnifig corner, as called for in the grant,
and actually.running out and4 tracing with a chain the upper or
western line, as caled for (exbept the offset to avoid crossing the river); and that the northwest corner vas fixed. at a
point on the course called for in the grant, at the end *of the
distance called for;- and that from the northwest corner so
established, the surveyor did actually run out and trace with
the 6hain the distance called for, on the course called for, to the
northeast corner, they must find for the defendant.
The court refused to give the charg9s s6 requested.
Leaving for. after consideration the first exception, namely,
that which was taken to a portion of the ch;arge given by the
court, and taking up in their orde4" the several requests to
charge, we observe, that the first request, relating to the call
for two small hackberries, was properly overruled., Though
the field notes of the survey did 'hot describe them as being
marked, and did not refer to other near objects as bearing upon
them, yet they were natural objects actually called for at thd
end of the line of 12,580 vara3 "as landmark for tke third

corner;" and the presumption is that, being .o referred to,
they were actually marked as such, for that is the universal

AYERS v. WATSON.
Qpinion of the Court.

custom of all surveyors; and- if two such trees, answering the
description, were afterwards found in the east line of the
survey, properly marked, and situated at about the proper distance from the river San Andres, as called for in the survey, it
was for the jury to say, in the light of all the evidence, whether
said trees, so marked and so situated, were or were not the
trees called for in the field ndtes; and, if they were, then they
wqre such objects, and such a monument, as would control the
ali for course and distance. It is every day's experience in
land trials, to establish by evidence the identity of both natural
and artificial monuments called for in sdrveys. If the beginning
point be at the mouth of a brook, or creek, wlere it empties
into, a river, evidence may be given, nay, must generally be
given, t6 establish the identity of the brook; and when once
,establishedI to the satisfaction of the jury, it has all the effect
of any natural or artificial object called for in the survey, and
will controf courses and distances. In the present case the two
hackberry trees relied on by the plaintiff were found in the
acknowledged easterly line-of the survey, in which they ought
to be;,(2) the evidence is that they were duly marked and
blazed; (3) they were at about the proper distance from the
river San A9ndres and from Cow Creek to correspond with the
field notes of the survey, and to make the survey contain
the -quantity of eleven leagues, although they were nearly
4,009 varas south of the northeast corner of the tract as it
would be fixed by giving to the first course of the survey its
full leiigth of 22,960 varas. Under these circumstances we
think that the court was right in leaving it to the jury to determine whether the two hackberries relied on by the plaintiff
were or were not the same which were called for by the survey, and ih holding that if they were the same, then, as monuments, they would control the distance assigned by the field
notes to the first course. It has been repeatedly held by the
Supreme Court of Texas, as a general rule, that natural objects
called for in a grant, such as mountains, lakes, rivers, creeks,
rocks, and the like, control artificial objects, such as marked
lines, trees, stakes, etc., and that the latter control courses and
distances. Stafford v. King,30 Texas, 257,270; Booth v. kStrip-

OOTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opunon 'of the Court.

plemn, 26 Texas 436, 441; Bolton. v. Lann, 16 Texas, 96, 111,
112. There are exceptional cases, however, in which courses
and distances may control, as where mistakes have been made
by the surveyor as to objects called for, or where the calls for
monuments are inconsistent with each other and cannot be reconciled, or where some other clearly sufficient reason exists
for disregarding the general rule. Booth v. Ujpshur,26 Texas,
'1; Booth v. Strippleman, 26 Texas, 441.
The request to charge that all rules have for their object the
identification of the actual survey made by the surveyor, and
that it is an invariable rule that the footsteps of the surveyor
must be followtd, and that the lines and corners must be located
where he established them, was unnecessary, inasmuch as the
court did charge substantially to that effect. The court expressly said: "Our purpose and your duty is to follow the
tracks of the surveyor, so far as we can discover them on the
ground with reasonable certainty, and where he cannot be
tracked on the ground, we have to follow the course and distance he gives, so far as not in conflict with the tracks we can
find that he made." We do not well see how it could be more
plainly stated, that the main object to be reached by the whole
inquiry was to ascertain and follow the actual footsteps of the
surveyor.
The final request was, in substance, a request to charge that
if the jury believed from the evidence that the survey was
actually made on the ground according to the first and second
courses and distances, they must find for the defendant. As
there appears to have been no doubt from the evidence that if
the lines were so run, the second line, that is, the -northor back
line, would take in the greater part of the lot claimed by the
plaintiff, the request would have been a proper one had. it been,
qualified with tlfe condition that the two hackberry trees were
not satisfactorily identified as those called for in the Moreno
grant. But without being so qualified the proposed instruction
would have had a tendency to withdraw the minds of the jury
from the controlling effect which the identification of those trees
as the true northeast corner would properly have had on the
conclusion to be reached by the jury, as to the question whether

AYERS v. WATSON.
Opinion of the Court.

the two lines referred to were, or were not, run and measured
according to the field notes. For it is perfectly clear that they
could not have been so run and measured, if the two hackberry
trees mentioned in the field notes were the same as those relied
on by the plaintiff. The request, therefore, should have been,
that if the jury did not believe the hackberries were the same,
then, if they believed that the two lines were run according to
the field notes, they must find for the defendant.
It still remains to -consider the correctness of that part of the
charge given which was excepted to by the defendants. The
substance and effect of it was, that if the jury were not able
to fix the disputed lines, or the disputed portions of the lines,
with reasonable certainty, they might locate the back, or
northerly line, so as to embrace eleven leagues between it and
the river, and between the east and west lines as acknowledged
by the parties. This was allowing the jury to make the location of the back line depend on the quantity of the land enclosed, if they could not fix it from the evidence. In this we
think there was error in the charge. The whole context immediately connected with the passage excepted to, was in substance this: that if the testimony satisfied the jury that the
two hackberries discovered were identical with those called for
in the grant, the back, or north, line must start from, or end
with, them, running in a course north 700 west, or south 700
east; but that ff the testimony did."ioot satisfy them as to the
identity'of the trees, then they'mfist:.fx the unmarked or disputed lines so as most nearly to hatmonize the calls with the
known corners and the undisputed line (that is, the east line If the jury were not able to fix the disputed lines, or the disputed portions of lines, then they might resort to quantity,
that is, locate the back line between the two recognized side
lines so as to take in eleven leagues.
Now, it seems to us, that the jury should have been told that
if the testimony was not sufficient to identify the two hackberries with those called for in the grant, and could not fix the
northeast corner nor the back line by any other marks or monuments, then they should fix it by the courses and distances
of the first and second lines of the survey, except that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

second line sh5uld be extended so as to meet the recognized
east line as marked and extended beyond the hackberries. This
would have been in accordance with the rule, that course controls distance, and that course and distance control quantity,
which is correctly laid down in Staford v. Zing, 30 Texas, 257,
and Wedkr v. Hunt, 34 Texas, 44.
The statement in the first part of the charge, that the jury
should follow- the tracks of the surveyor, so far as they could
be discovered, and when these were not to be found, they should
follow the course and distance which he gives, so far as not
in conflict with tracks that are found, was correct. Had this
proposition been followed in the subsequent part of the charge,
it would not have been open to criticism. But when directions
were given to the jury in greater detail, they were notreferred
to the courses and distances given by the surveyor, in case they
were unable to identify his tracks (that is, in case the proof
relating to the two hackberries was insufficient); but they were
told thus: "you will, from the whole proof, so fix the unmarked or disputed lines called for in the grant as in your
judgment most nearly harmonizes the calls with the known
corners and the undisputed lines; ' and if not able to fix these
lines in this way, then to resort to the rule of quantity. This
was putting the matter as if it depended on the judgment of
the jury whether the lines could be run according to the survey; whereas, if not compelled by fixed monuments (such as
the plaintiff claimed the hackberry trees to be) to run the
second, or back line, in a particular manner, there was nothing
in the way, so far as the evidence showed, of running the first
and second lines according to the field notes,-only extending
the second line so as to meet the east line, the position of which
was known. If the northeast corner was not determined by
the hackberries, there was nothing to interfere with the location of the Moreno grant in exact accordance with the field
notes, except the one thing of extending the second line far
enough to meet the conceded location of the eastern boundary.
It did not depend on anything requiring the 'exercise of
judgment on the part of the jury; it was a matter of course.
If the position of the eastern line had not been discovered at

CALIFORNIA PAYING CO. v. MOLITOR.
Syllabus.

all, and nothing had been known but the beginning corner, the
field notes would have furnished the only guide for locating
the survey. _ The position of that line being known, it controlled the survey only in respect to that line, which required
the sccond line to be extended sufficiently to reach it: But if
the two hackberry trees, in that line, were also identified as the
true northeast corner, then the position of the north line, and
the length of the first course, would be controlled by those
trees.
We think there was error in not putting it to the jury with
sufficient distinctness, that the course and distance of the first
two lines of the survey must govern, if the evidence was not
sufficient to fix the location of the northern line by identifying the two hackberries with those called for,in the field notes
for the northeast corner of the survey, or by some other marks
or monuments.
Thejudgment mu8t be revered, with&direoti=8 to grant a
new tria.

CALIFORNIA ARTIFICIAL STONE PAVING COMPANY v. MOLITOR.
IN ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

SAME v. SAME.
APPEAL FROM THE SAME COURT.
Submitted November 25, 1884. -Declded March 2, 1885.

A certificate of division of opinion under § 652 Rev. Stat., can be resorted to
only when "a question" has occurred on which the judges have diffared,
and where "the point" of disagreement may be distinctly stated.
It cannot be resorted to for the purpose of presenting questions of fact, or
mixed questions of fact and law, or a difference of opinion on the general
case.

VOL. Cx-89

