NEW JERSEY CENTRAL RAILROAD CO.v. MKILLS. 249
Syllabus.
in Till8on v. United States, 100 U. S. 43, interest cannot be
allowed on either of the items in question. We do not see
anything in the special statute, act of August 14, 1876, ch.
279, 19 Stat. 490, which takes the case out of the rule prescribed by ยง 1091 of the Revised Statutes.
The judgment of the Court of Claims is affirmed for the full
amount of the award made to the claimants, and an additional
amount, of $23,842.82, is allowed for the labor done and materials furnished by the claimants, in constructing coffer-dam.
and in performing the work necessarily connected therewith,
and preliminary to the mason work for the pieri and abutmerits
referred to in their contract, the same being an additional allowance on account of item (1) in their petition filed August 30,
1876; and the said judgment is reversed, so far as respects
item (2) in that petition, and the sum of $4,574.80 is allowed
for that item; and
This cause is emanded to the Court of Claims,with a direction to enterjudgment aecordingly.

THE CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY OF NEW
JERSEY v. MILLS & Another, Executors.
APPEAL FROM THE oIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF NEW JERSEY.
Submitted December 22, 1884.-Decided January 19, 1885.

A bill in equity, filed in the Court of Chancery of the State of New Jersey by
citizens of that State, stockholders in a New Jersey railroad corporation,
against that corporation, and a Pennsylvania railroad corporation, and
several individuals, citizens respectively of New Jersey and Pennsylvania,
and directors in one or both corporations, alleged that, without authority
of law, and in fraud of the rights of the plaintiffs, and with the concurrence of the individual defendants, the New Jersey corporation, pursuant
to votes of a majority of its stockholders, made, and the Pennsylvania corporation took, a -lease of the railroad and property of the New Jersey corporation ; and prayed that the lease might be set aside, the Pennsylvania
corporation ordered to account with the New Jersey corporation for all
profits received, the amount found due ordered to be paid to the New Jer-

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.
sey corporation by the Pennsylvania corporation, or, uipon its failure to do
so, by the individual defendants, and the New Jersey corporation ordered
to administer the property in conformity with its charter, and to pay over
to the plaintiffs their share of that amount. The defendants answered
jointly, d&nying the illegality of the lease, and removed the case into the
CIrcuit Court of the United States, under the act of March 3, 1875, ch. '137,
as involving a controversy between citizens of different States, aid a controversy arising under the Constitution and laws of'the United States.
The Circuit Court, upon the plaintiffs' motion, remanded the case to the
State court. Hrd, That the case was rightly reriianded.

This was an appeal from an order of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of New Jersey, remanding to the
Court of Chancery of the State of New Jersey a suit in equity
brought by the appellees against the appellants. The case, so
far as material to the understanding of ihe question presented
by .the appeal, was as follows:
The bill was filed by two citizens of New Jersey, executors
of Stephen Vail, and, as such, stockholders in the Central
Railroad Company of New Jersey, a New Jersey corporation,
against that cbrporation, and the Philadelphia and Reading
Railroad Company, a Pennsylvania corporation, .and several
individuals, citizens respectively of New Jersey, of Pennsylvania and of Maryland, and directors in one or both of those
corporations, to set aside a lease made by the New Jersey corporation of its railroad and property to the Pennsylvania corporation, and for an account of profits received under the i ase.
The bill set out the charter of the New Jersey corporation,
enacting that its railroad should be operated by directors
elected by its stockholders, and that dividends of its net earnings should be made semi-annually among its stockholders;
aid alleged that the road was afterwards constructed and
operated accordingly; that the corporation, although holding
the legal title to all its property, held it as a trustee for the
stockholders, and the real, equitable and beneficial interest in
the property, and in all dividends or income accruing or to
accrue therefrom, was in the stockholders; "and that any act
or thing done without the consent of all of said stockholders,
or due process of law, which destroys the powers and control
of those trustees, to whom the stockholders have confidedtheir

NEW JERSEY CENTRAL RAILROAD CO. . MILLS. 251
Statement of Facts.

property, or which prevents those trustees from fully and freely
performing said trusts, or which in whole or in part substitutes
new"or other trustees for those selected by said stockholders,
or which takes from said stockholders their estate or interest'
in said properties, or their control over them and their management, or transfers the possession and management of the
property of said stockholders to another corporation or to any
other person, or in any wise changes the scheme of said railroad
bompany or the enterprise in which and to further which the
said stockholders advanced and invested their capital, or which
limits the productiveness of their property to them and diverts
the earnings, or any part thereof, to other persons, natural or
artificial, on any pretence whatever, is a fraud upon said stockholders, is unlawful as changing the contract between said corporation and said stockholders against their consent, and is
absolutely void by the law of the land."
The bill further alleged that the directors of the New Jersey
corporation, in accordance with votes of a majority of the stockholders, but without the consent of all the stockholders, or of
the plaintiffs, executed and delivered a lease of its railroad and
all its property to the Pennsylvania corporation, for the term
of nine hundrel and ninety-nine years, and the Pennsylvania
corporation enl ered into possession under the lease; that the
lease prevented: those trustees from performing the trust reposed in them by the stockholders, and affected their rights
and interests in the particulars above set forth, and "#v as made
without any authority of law, and is illegal, inequitable and
void;" that the individual 'defendants, under cover of that
lease, and well knowing its illegality, had been and were actively engaged in furthering the aforesaid invasion of the
rights of the plaintiffs as stockholders; that therefore any application by the plaintiffs to the corporation, or to the directors or stockholders, to institute this suit would have been
futile, and had not been made; and that consequently the
plaintiffs were entitled to bring and maintain this suit in their
own name, as well for themselves as for other stockholders
similarly situated.'
The bill prayed for a decree that the lease and the delivery

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Statement of Facts.

of possession under it were illegal and void, and a fraud upon
the rights of the plaintiffs; that the Pennsylvania corporation
surrender to the New Jersey corporation the railroad and other
property, and account with it for all tolls and profits received;
that the New Jersey corporation take possession of the railroad
and property, and use and administer it in conformity with the
trusts imposed by its charter, and distribute and pay over to
the plaintiffs their share of all the money to be found due upon
such accounting from the Pennsylvania corporation to the New
Jersey corporation; and that, upon the failure of the Pennsylvania corporation to pay back to the New Jersey corporation
all moneys taken under the lease, the individual defendants
pay the same to the New Jersey corporation; and for further
relief.
The defendants filed a joint answer, admitting the plaintiffs'
ownership of stock in the New Jersey corporation, the construction and operation of the railroad by that corporation, and
the execution and delivery of the lease, and of possession under
it; denying the other leading allegations of the bill; averring
that the charter of the New 'Jersey corporation was subject by
law to alteration, suspension or repeal in the discretion of the
legislature; that the lease was expressly authorized by the laws
of New Jersey; and that, if the bill covld be maintained, all
that the plaintiffs could claim was the value of their stock, and
damages assessed according to any reasonable anticipation of
its productiveness in the future, and such damages the defendants were willing and thereby proffered to pay.
Before the cause could be heard in the State court, all the
defendants joined in a petition, under the act of March 3, 1875,
ch. 131, for its removal into the Circuit Court of the United
States, for the following reasons:
"That the said suit is one instituted by. the plaintiffs, who
are the executors of one Stephen Vail, and, as such, holders of
certain shares of stock of the Central Railroad Company of
New Jersey, one of the defendants above named, to obtain a
dccree requiring the surrender and cancellation, as illegal, void,
and a fraud upon the rights of the plaintiffs, of a certain lease
of all its railroads and other property, executed by the said

NEW J$RSEY CENTRAL RAILROAD CO. v. MILLS. 253
Statement of Facts.

Central Railroad Company of New Jersey to the said Philadelphia and Reading Railroad Company, and the payment over
by the said Reading Company to the said Central Company of
all rents, tolls and profits by the former, as lessee as aforesaid,
and further requiring that the said Reading Company should
cease and refrain from doing any act under the terms of said
lease.
"That the defendants, other than the two above-mentioned
railroad companies, were made parties to the said suit only by
reason of their official connection with the said two companies,
and are not necessary or substantial parties to the controversy,
which rel.tes solely, as already mentioned, to the validity of
the lease above referred to, of the railroads and other property
of the Central Company to the Reading Company; that the
plaintiffs in the suit claim that as stockholders in the Central
Railroad Company of New Jersey they have the right to institutesaid suit upon behalf of the said company, to compel the
surrender by the Philadelphia and Reading Railroad Company
of the above-mentioned lease, and an accounting for and return
by the latter company to the former of all moneys received as
such lessee as aforesaid; and the controversy in said suit is
therefore between citizens of different States, as the plaintiffs
and the Central Railroad Company are citizens of the State of
New Jersey, and the Philadelphia and Reading Railroad Company is a citizen of the State of Pennsylvania.
"That the controversy in said suit is, moreover, one arising
under the Constitution and laws of the United States, in that
the right to make said lease is rested by the defendants upon a
certain statute of New Jersey, approved March 11, 1880, ch.
160, which provides, inter alia, as follows: ' It shall be lawful
for any corporation incorporated under this act, or under any
of the laws of the State, at any time during the continuance of
its charter, to lease its road, or any part thereof, to any other
corporation or corporations of this or any other State, or to
unite and consolidate as well as merge its stock, property and
franchises and road with those of any company or companies
of this or any other State, or to do both; and such other company or companies are hereby authorized to take such, and to

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Argument for Appellants.

unite, consolidate, as w611 as merge its stock, property, franchises and road with said company, or to do both; and after
such lease or consolidation the company or companies so
acquiring said stock, property,. franchises and road may use
and operate such road, and their own roads, or all or any of
them, and transport freights and passengers over the same, and
take compensation therefor, according to the provisions and
restrictions contained in this act, notwithstanding any special
privilege heretofore granted or hereafter to be granted to
another corporation for the transportation of freights and passengers between any points on the lines of said road, or any
other points within or without this State,' which said statute,
it -is contended by the plaintiffs, is null and void, in that it
attempts to alter and amend charters of incorporated companies without the consent of all the stockholders of said companies, and is therefore violative of the provision of the Constitution of the United States that no State shall pass any law
impairing the obligation of contracts."
The case was thereupon removed into the Circuit Court of
the United States, but was remanded by that court to the State
court. 20 Fed. Rep. 449.
.Xr. Jnws E. Gowen for appellants.-I. The pleadings in this
case present a Federal question. The substantial complaint in
the bill is, that the Central Company had, without authority of
law, leased its railroad and franchises to the Reading Company.
It is charged that the ]ease is unlawful as changing the contract
between the corporation and its stockholders against their consent, and is absolutely void. The answer sets up that the lease
is authorized by the laws of New Jersey. There is a law of
New Jersey which authorizes it; and thus the question is expressly presented whether that law authorizes the impairment
of a contract. In Smith v. Greenhow, 109 U. S.669, the record
presented no ground for holding that the Virginia statute was
invalid, except that it was in conflict with the constitutional
provision as to contracts; and this court reversed the remanding order. The test of jurisdiction is not the same in removal
cases that it is in cases brought up by writ of error. In the

NEW JERSEY CENTRAL RAILROAD CO. v. MILLS. 255
Argument for Appellants.

latter case it must appear not only that a Federal question
was involved, but that it was raised, and was necessary to the
judgment rendered.
Chouteau v. Gibson, 111 U. S. 200.
Such a rule, applied to removals, would practically annul the
statute. And it has been held that though there may be many
non-Federal questions, .yet the existence of one in the case is
sufficient to warrant removal. Zifayor v. Cooper, 6 Wall. 247;
Railroad Co. v. 3fis8sippi,102 U. S. 135; Western Union
Tel. Co. v. .NationalTel. Co., 19 Fed. Rep. 561; Gold WVasdng
& Water Co. v. .Keyes, 96 U. S. 199, is not in conflict with these
decisions. When the issue is whether a legislative act impairs
a contract, a constitutional question arises; and on petition for
Amoval the court is to decide, not whether the act does impair
the contract, but whether the case fairly raises the question
whether it does or not. People v. Chicago & Bdrlingtom Railroad, 16 Fed. Rep. 706. The decision of the real question here
requires the court to determine whether the New Jersey act
authorizing the lease conflicts with the charter of the Central
Company. That is a Federal question, within Bridge Proprietors v. Hoboken Co., 1 Wall. 116.-I1. This cause was removable on the ground of citizenship of the parties. Treating
the individual defendants as merely formal parties to the main
controversy in the case, and their citizenship consequently as
immaterial, the controversy must be viewed as one between the
plaintiffs and the Central Company, both citizens of :New
Jersey, upon the one hand, and the Reading Company, a
citizen of Pennsylvania, upon the other; for in a stockholder's
bill of the kind before the court, the company in which the
plaintiffs are stockholders is a necessary party defendant, but
the interests of the stockholders andthe company are identical,
and they represent one side of the controversy, and the company against whom the accounting and relief are sought, represent the other. Arapahoe County v. ansa8 Pacific Railroad, 4 Dillon, 277. It is true that individual defendants,
directors, were citizens of the same State as plaintiff. As to
their position see Pond v. Sibley, 7 Fed. Rep. 129 ; .National
Bank v. Wells River Co., 7 Fed. Rep. 750; Hatch v. Chicago
& Rock Island Railway, 6 Blatehford, 105. Assuming that they

OCTOBER TERM, 1884.
Opinion of the Court.

were necessary parties, yet there was a separate controversy
between the plaintiffs and each of them. Langdon v. Fogg, 18
Fed. Rep. 5 Barney v. Latham, 103 U. S. 205 ; Clark v. Railroad Comnpanie, 11 Fed. Rep. 355; Sheldon v. .Keokuk Packet
Co., 9 Bissell, 307; Kerting v. Cotzlausen, 11 Bissell, 58 ;
Buford v. Strother, 3 McCrary, 253. The position of the
Central Company in this suit is analogous to that of the executors in W]alden v. Skinner, 101 U. S. 577. See also Bacon
v. Rives, 106 U. S. 99, 104.
Xr. Henry C. Pitney and Afr. Barker CGummere for appellees.
ivt. JusrxcE GnA-Y delivered the opinion of the court.

He

recited the facts as above stated, and continued:
The controversy in this case is not between citizens of different States. In truth, as well as in form, the parties on one
side of the controversy are citizens of New Jersey, and those
on the other side of the controversy are a New -Jersey corporation and other citizens of New Jersey, as well as a
Pennsylvania corporation and citizens of Pennsylvania and of
Maryland. The bill is filed by stockholders in the New Jersey
corporation, in behalf of themselves and other stockholders
similarly situated, to set aside a lease made by that corporation,
acting in concert with the other defendants, of its railroad and
property, in excess of its corporate powers, and in fraud of the
rights of the plaintiffs. All the defendants unite in defending
the acts complained of, and in denying the illegality and fraud
charged against them. The New Jersey corporation is in no
sense a merely formal party to the suit, or a party in the same
interest with the plaintiffs; but is rightly and necessarily made
a defendant. Hawes v. Oakland, 104 U. S. 450, 460; Atwool
v. fferryweather, L. R. 5 Eq..464, note; XJenier v. Hooper'8
Telegraph Co., L. R. 9 Ch. 350; Xfaoon v. Harris,11 Ch. D. 97.
There is--no separate controversy between the plaintiffs and
those directors who are citizens of Pennsylvania. The bill
seeks affirmative relief against the directors, as well as against
the two co~rorations, for one and the same illegal and fraudu-

NEW JERSEY CENTRAL RAILROAD CO. v. MILLS. 257
Opinion of the Court.
lent act; the single matter in controversy between the plaintiffs
and all the defendants is the validity of that act; and unless it
is determined that the action of the New Jersey corporation
was invalid as against the plaintiffs, there can be no decree
against any of the other defendants. All the parties on one
side of this controversy not being citizens of different States
from all those upon the other side, the citizenship of the parties
did not bring the case within the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court. Ayre8 v. Tfi&wall, 112 U. S. 187.
No controversy has arisen under the Constitution and laws
of the United States. Neither the bill nor the answer, in terms
or in effect, claims any right or involves any question under
that Constitution or those laws. The question -whether a party
claims a right under the Constitution or laws of the United
States is to be ascertained by the legal construction of its own
allegations, and not by the effect attributed to those allegations
by the adverse party. The bill, while alleging the lease made
by the New Jersey corporation to be inconsistent with its charter, illegal and void, does not assert or imply an intention to
impugn the validity of any statute of the State for repugnancy
to the Constitution or laws of the United States. And the
counsel for the plaintiffs, at the hearing in the Circuit Court, as
well as in this court, disclaimed the intention to do so. Should
any such question arise in the progress of the cause, and be decided by the State court against a right claimed under the
national Constitution and laws, relief may be had by writ of
error from this court. But in the present condition of the case,
the Circuit Court rightly held that it did not involve a controversy properly within its jurisdiction. Gold "Wa8hing Co. v.
Keyeq, 96 U. S. 199; Smith v. Greenhow, 109 U. S. 669.
Judgment afirmed.

vor. cx-17

