158

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Counsel for Parties.

290 US.

JOHNSON OIL REFINING CO. v. OKLAHOMA

EX

REL.. MITCHELL, COUNTY A T T 0 R N E Y O F

PAWNEE COUNTY,

ET -AL.

APPEALS FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF OKLAHOMA.
Nos. 22, 23, and 24.

Argued October 17, 1933.-Decided December
4, 1933.

An Illinois corporation owned a fleet of tank cars used mainly in
transporting oil from its refinery in Oklahoma for delivery in other
States. Upon making such deliveries the cars usually would be
returned to this refinery pursuant to directions accompanying them
on their outward trips. The refinery had trackage for a small
part of all the cars and facilities for making minor repairs upon
them; but the cars were almost continuously in movement, and
each, on the average, was out of Oklahoma from twenty to twentynine days each month. Held:
i. That while the cars had acquired a situs outside of Illinois-the domicile of their owner-for the purpose of state taxation, the
mere fact that the refinery where they were loaded and reloaded
was in Oklahoma, did not fix the situs of the entire fleet in that
State. P. 161.
2. Jurisdiction of Oklahoma to tax such property must be determined on a basis consistent with the like jurisdiction of the
other States in which the property was habitually employed.
P. 162.
3. Oklahoma's share for taxation could be determined by taking
the number of cars which on the average were found to be physically present there. P. 163.
162 Okla. 185; 19 P. (2d) 168, reversed.
APPEALS from judgments of the Supreme Court of
Oklahoma sustaiiiing property taxes on railway tank cars.
The proceedings were by appeal, through intermediate
courts, from the action of the taxing authorities.

Mr. A. A. Davidson, with whom Messrs. Charles Y.
Freeman, J. F. Dammann, and Preston C. West were on
the brief, for appellant.

JOHNSON OIL CO. v. OKLAHOMA.
158

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Ed Waite Clark, with whom Mr. J. Berry King,
Attorney General of Oklahoma, was on the brief, for
appellees.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of

the Court.
These cases present the question of the validity of
property taxes laid in Pawnee County, Oklahoma, under
the state statute, upon the entire fleet of appellant's tank
cars. The challenge in each case was under the due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment of the Federal
Constitution upon the ground that the cars did not have
their situs within the State and hence that the State had
no jurisdiction to tax them. The taxes in Nos. 22 and 23
were on 380 cars for the years 1925 to 1928; in No. 24, on
381 cars for the year 1931. The assessments in Nos. 22
and 23 were made by the county treasurer and upheld by
the County Court. In No. 24 the assessment was made
by the local board of equalization and was reduced by the
District Court of the County to an assessment on 64 cars,
which that Court held to be the average number present in
the County on any one day during the year. The three
cases (with a fourth, which is not before us, from another
County) were consolidated for hearing on appeal in the
Supreme Court of Oklahoma. That Court sustained the
assessments on the entire fleet of cars, thus affirming the
judgment of the County Court and reversing the judgment of the District Court. 162 Okla. 18MP 19 P. (2d)
168. The cases come here on appeal.
Appellant, Johnson Oil Refining Company, is an Illinois
corporation having its principal office in Chicago, and its
refinery at Cleveland in Pawnee County, Oklahoma. The
Supreme Court of the State reached the conclusion that
all the cars had their "taxable situs" at the latter place.
As the asserted federal right turns upon the determination of the question of situs, it is our province to analyze

. 160

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 US.

the facts in order to apply the law, and thus to ascertain
whether the conclusion of the state court has adequate
support in the evidence. Beidler v. South Carolina Tax
Comm'n, 282 U.S. 1, 8.1
The essential facts are not in dispute. The tank cars
are operated in transporting refined products from appellant's factory at Cleveland, Oklahoma, to various points
of delivery throughout a large part of the United States.
They are almost exclusively engaged in interstate commerce. They are very infrequently used in connection
with an oil plant appellant owns in Illinois. They are
sometimes loaded at refineries located in States other than
Oklahoma. The cars are stenciled "When empty return
to Johnson Oil Refining Company, Cleveland, Oklahoma,"
or "Johnson Refining Company, Cleveland, Oklahoma,"
and with each shipment go instructions to return the car
to Cleveland. The cars are thus billed back to Cleveland
unless ordered to another point. At that place appellant
has repair trackage, which can accommodate from 12 to
15 cars for minor repairs, and maintains such a stock of
materials as can be utilized for repairs outside of a railroad shop.. Besides the above-mentioned repair trackage,
appellant has trackage at Cleveland with a capacity
for about 67 cars.
The cars are almost continuously in movement. Returning to Cleveland to be reloaded, the cars remain on
the tracks from twenty-four hours to ten days, depending
on the season of the year and the volume of products
handled. They are on the tracks for reloading purposes
twenty-four hours. Each of the cars makes about one
'Kansas City Southern Ry. Co. v. Albers Commission Co., 223 U.S.
573, 591-593; Creswill v. Knights of Pythias, 225" U.S. 246, 261;
Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. North Dakota, 236 U.S. 585, 593; First
National Bank v. Hartford, 273 U.S. .48, 552, 553; Fiske v. Kansas,
274 U.S. 380, 385, 386; Ancient Egyptian Order v. Michaux, 279
U.S. 737, 745; Sterling v. Constantin,287 U.S. 378, 398.

JOHNSON OIL CO. v. OKLAHOMA.
158

Opinion of the Court.

and one-half trips every thirty days, that is, "each car
is loaded at the Cleveland refinery, sent to the point of
delivery, returns to the Cleveland plant, is reloaded and
sent out again to a point of delivery each thirty days."
Each car is outside of Pawnee County and the State of
Oklahoma from twenty to twenty-nine days out of each
month. It was variously estimated at the trial in No. 22
that the daily average number of cars in Pawnee County
during the years 1925 to 1928 was between 37 and 66.
The agreed statement of facts in No. 24 states that that
daily average during the years 1929 and 1930 was 64; that
is, about 16 per cent. of the cars owned by appellant were
in Pawnee County and about 84 per cent., on a daily
average, were "somewhere in transit outside" of that
County.
Although rolling stock, such as these cars, is employed
in interstate commerce, that fact does not make it immune
from a nondiscriminatory property tax in a State which
can be deemed to have jurisdiction. Marye v. Baltimore
& Ohio R. Co., 127 U.S. 117, 123; Pullman's Car Co. v.
Pennsylvania, 141 U.S. 18, 23; American Refrigerator
Transit Co. v. Hall, 174 U.S. 70, 82; Union Refrigerator
Transit Co. v. Lynch, 177 U.S. 149, 152; Union Tank Line
Co. v. Wright, 249 U.S. 275, 282. Appellant had its domicile in Illinois, and that State had jurisdiction to tax appellant's personal property which had not acquired an
actual situs elsewhere. "The State of origin remains the
permanent situs of the property notwithstanding its occasional excursions to foreign parts." See New York Central & H. R. R. Co. v. Miller, 202 U.S. 584, 597; Southern
Pacific Co. v. Kentucky, 222 U.S. 63, 69. But the State
of the domicile has no jurisdiction to tax personal property where its actual situs is in another State. Union
Refrigerator Transit Co. v. Kentucky, 199 U.S. 194, 209,
211; Western Union v. Kansas, 216 U.S..1, 38; Frick v.
Pennsylvania, 268 U.S. 473, 489. While, in this instance,

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

it cannot be doubted that the cars in question had acquired
an actual situs outside the State of Illinois, the mere fact
that appellant had its refinery in Oklahoma would not
necessarily fix the situs of the entire fleet of cars in that
State. The jurisdiction of Oklahoma to tax property of
this description must be determined on a basis which is
consistent with the like jurisdiction of other States.
The basis of the jurisdiction is the habitual employment of the property within the State. By virtue of that
employment the property should bear its fair share of the
burdens of taxation to which other property within the
State is subject. When a fleet of cars is habitually employed in several States--the individual cars constantly
running in and out of each State-it cannot be said that
any one of the States is entitled to tax the entire number
of cars regardless of their use in the other States. When
individual items of rolling stock are not continuously the
same but are constantly changing, as the nature of their
use requires, this Court has held that a State may fix the
tax by reference to the average number of cars found to
be habitually within its limits. Marye v. Baltimore &
Ohio R. Co., supra. This principle has had frequent illustration. It was thus stated in American Refrigerator
Transit Co. v. Hall, supra [p. 82]: "It having been settled, as we have seen, that where a corporation of one
State brings into another, to use and employ, a portion
of its movable personal property, it is legitimate for the
latter to impose upon such property, thus used and employed, its fair share of the burdens of taxation imposed
upon similar property used in like way by its own citizens,
we think that such a tax may be properly assessed and collected, in cases like the present, where the specific and
individual items of property so used and employed were
not continuously the same, but were constantly changing,
according to the exigencies of the business, and that the
tax may be fixed by an appraisement and valuation
of the average* amount of the property thus habitually

FUNKHOUSER v. PRESTON CO.
158

Syllabus.

used and employed." See, also, Union Refrigerator Transit Co. v. Lynch, supra; Union Refrigerator Transit Co.
v. Kentucky, supra; Germania Refining Co. v. Auditor
General, 184 Mich., 618; 151 N.W. 605; affirmed 245 U.S.
632; Union Tank Line Co. v. Wright, supra.
Applying these principles, no ground appears for the
taxation of all the cars of the appellant in Oklahoma. It
is true that the cars went out from and returned to Oklahoma, being loaded and reloaded at the refinery, but they
also entered and were employed in other States where the
oil was delivered. Oklihoma was entitled to tax its
proper share of the property employed in the course of
business which these records disclose, and this amount
could be determined by taking the number of cars which on
the average were found to be physically present within the
State.
The judgments of the Supreme Court of Oklahoma are
reversed and the causes are remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
FUNKHOUSER ET AL. v. J. B. PRESTON CO., INC.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF NEW YORK.

No. 72.

Submitted November 9, 1933.--Decided December 4, 1933.

1. Section 480, New York Civil Practice Act, as amended, providing
that interest shall be added to recoveries in actions for unliquidated
damages caused by breach of contract, did not impair the obligation of an earlier contract which did not create an obligation not
to demand such interest, either by its own terms, or when read
with the law applicable when it was made. P. 166.
2. The purpose of the statute was to supply a definite, uniform rule
of compensation for delay in settling unliquidated damages in lieu
of the uncertain rules previously developed by judicial decision.
Provision of the enlarged remedy was consistent with the contract
here involved and can not be regarded as an unreasonable exercise
of legislative power. Pp. 166-168.

