OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 US.

EX PARTE PORESKY.
MOTION FOR LEAVE TO FILE PETITION FOR WRIT OF
MANDAMUS.

No. -,

original.

Motion submitted October 2, 1933.-Decided
November 6, 1933.

1. When a bill for a preliminary injunction to restrain the enforcement of a state statute fails to set up a substantial federal
question
and no other ground of jurisdiction appears, a single district judge
holding the district court has authority to dismiss it for the want
of jurisdiction, without calling the three-judge court, under Jud.
Code ยง 266, to hear the injunction application. P. 31.
2. The proposition that c. 90, Gen. Laws Mass., in requiring the posting of automobile liability insurance as a condition to registration
of cars and issuance of license plates, for cars owned and operated
wholly within the State, violates the Fourteenth Amendment, held
clearly without merit in view of previous decisions by this Court.
P. 32.
Motion denied.
APPLICATION

for leave to file petition for a writ of man-

damus.
Mr. Joseph Poresky, pro ae.
PER CURIAM.

Leave is asked to file a petition for a writ of mandamuq

requiring District Judge Elisha H. Brewster, or other competent Judge, to call to his assistance two other Judges
for the purpose of hearing and determining petitioner's
application for an interlocutory injunction, as directed by
Statute. Jud. Code, ยง 266; 28 U.S.C. 380.
Petitioner brought suit in the District Court of the
United States against Joseph E. Ely, Governor, Joseph E.
Warner, Attorney General, and Morgan T. Ryan, Registrar of Motor Vehicles, of Massachusetts, to enjoin the
enforcement of chapter 90 of the General Laws of Massa-

EX PARTE PORESKY.
30

Opinion of the Court.

chusetts, relating to "compulsory automobile liability insurance," upon the ground that the statute violates the
Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States. Petitioner alleged in his complaint that he is a
citizen of Massachusetts; that the Registrar of Motor Vehicles had refused registration and number plates for his
car unless he complied with the statute, under which he
Imust first post either bond or cash of $5,000, or procure
insurance "; that the statute "is only applicable to cars
owned and operated within the State and does not include cars in interstate traffic "; that he cannot comply
with the statute; that to disregard it would bring him fine
and imprisonment; that he has no adequate remedy at
law; and that his inabiiity to comply with the statute
"is the Registrar's only reason for refusing him registration and number plates."
The District Judge dismissed the complaint as to Governor Ely and Attorney General Warner upon the ground
that they were improperly joined as parties, and later he
dismissed the complaint as to the defendant Ryan, Registrar of Motor Vehicles, for the want of jurisdiction, as
there was no diversity of citizenship and no substantial
federal -question.
The District Judge recognized the rule that if the court
was warranted in taking jurisdiction and the case fell
within ยง 266 of the Judicial Code, a single judge was not
authorized to dismiss the complaint on the merits, whatever his opinion of the merits might be. Ex parte Northern Pacific Ry. Co., 280 U.S. 142,144; Stratton v. St. Louis
S.W. Ry. Co., 282 U.S. 10, 15. But the provision requiring the presence of a court of three judges necessarily
assumes that the District Court has jurisdiction. In the
absence of diversity of citizenship, it is essential to jurisdiction that a substantial federal question should be presented. "'A substantial claim of unconstitutionality is
necessary for the application of ยง 266."
Ex parte Buder,

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

271 U.S. 461,467; Louisville & Nashville R. Co. v. Garrett,
231 U.S. 298, 304. That provision does not require three
judges to pass upon this initial question of jurisdiction.
The existence of a substantial question of constitutionality must be determined by the allegations of the bill of
complaint. Mosher v. Phoenix, 287 U.S. 29, 30; Levering
& Garrigues Co. v. Morrin, 289 U.S. 103, 105. The question. may be plainly unsubstantial, either because it is
"obviously without merit" or because "its unsoundness
so clearly results from the previous decisions of this court
as to foreclose the subject and leave no room for the inference that the question sought to be raised can be the
subject of controversy." Levering & Garrigues Co. v.
Morrin, supra; Hannis Distilling Co. v. Baltimore, 216
U.S. 285, 288; McGilvra v. Ross, 215 U.S. 70, 80.
While it is appropriate that a single District Judge to
whom application is made for an interlocutory injunction
restraining the enforcement of a state statute should carefully scrutinize the bill of complaint to ascertain whether
a substantial question is presented, to the end that the
complainant should not be denied opportunity to be heard
in the prescribed manner upon a question that is fairly
open to debate, the District Judge clearly has authority
'to dismiss for the want of jurisdiction when the question
lacks the necessary substance and no other ground of jurisdiction appears. Such was his authority in the instant
case, in view of the decisions of this Court bearing upon
the constitutional authority of the State, acting in the
interest of public safety, to enact the statute assailed.
Hendrick v. Maryland, 235 U.S. 610, 622; Continental
Baking Co. v. Woodring, 286 U.S. 352, 357, 365, 366; Hess,
v. Pawloski, 274 U.S. 352, 356. See, also, Opinion of the
Justices, 251 Mass. 569; .147 N.E. 681; Opinion of the
Justices, 81 N.H. 566; 129 Atl. 117.

. Leave to file petition for writ of mandamus is denied.

