OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Syllabus.

290 U.S.

Accordingly, it is ordered, adjudged and decreed:
1. On and after July- 1, 1934, the defendant, The City
of New York, its employees and agents, and all persons
assuming to act under its authority, be and they are hereby
enjoined from dumping, or procuring or suffering to be
dumped, any garbage or refuse, or other noxious, offensive
or injurious matter, into the ocean, or waters of the United
States, off the coast of New Jersey, and from otherwise
defiling or polluting said waters and the shores or beaches
thereof or procuring them to be defiled or polluted as
aforesaid.
2. If defendant shall fail to comply with paragraph 1
of this decree by July 1, 1934, it shall pay to plaintiff
$5,000.00 a day until it does so comply; such payments
however are to be without prejudice to any other relief to
which complainant may be found entitled.
3. Plaintiff shall have and recover from defendant the
sum of $2,160.79 for the use and benefit of its political
subdivisions above referred to.
And it is further ordered that the costs, the expenses
incurred by the special master and his compensation, to
be fixed by the Court, shall be taxed against the defendant.
KEYSTONE DRILLER CO. v. GENERAL
EXCAVATOR CO.*
CERTIORARI

TO THE CIRCUIT

COURT OF APPEALS

FOR THE

SIXTH CIRCUIT.

Nos. 34 and 35.

Argued October 19, 1933.-Decided December 4,
1933.

1. He who comes into equity must come with clean hands. P. 244.
2. This maxim applies only when some unconscionable act of the
plaintiff has immediate and necessary relation to the equity he
seeks in the litigation. P. 245.
* Together with Nos. 36 and 37, Keystone Driller Co. v. Osgood
Co., certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit.

KEYSTONE CO. v. EXCAVATOR CO.
Opinion of the Court.

240

3. In applying the maxim, the courts of equity are not bound by
formula or restrained by any limitation that tends to trammel
the free and just exercise of discretion. P. 245.
4. Plaintiff in suits on several patents sought equitable relief, partly'
on the basis of, a decree in another case which sustained one of
the patents and in the obtaining of which the plaintiff, through a
corrupt bargain, had suppressed evidence damaging to that patent.
The several devices covered by this and the other patents were
important, if not essential, parts of the same machine. Held that
the relations of the patents and the use made of the prior decree
sustaining one of them brought the pending cases within the doctrine that he who comes into equity must come with clean hands;
and that the cases were properly dismissed on that ground as to
all of the patents. Pp. 243, 246.
62 F. (2d) 48; 64 id. 39, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 289 U.S. 721, to review decrees reversing
the District Court and directing that the suits be dismissed without prejudice. These were two infringement
suits, one involving four and the other one five patents.
The District Court had held three of the patents valid
and awarded injunctions and accountings. See also 44
F. (2d) 283; 63 id. 996.

Messrs. William H.

Boyd and Frank 0.

Richey for

petitioner.
Mr. Edwin P. Corbett, with whom Messrs. Lloyd T.
Williams, Edward L. Reed, John H. Mahoney, Wade H.

Ellis, and

Challen B. Ellis were

on the brief, for

respondents.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the

opinion of the Court.

The question presented is whether the Circuit Court of
Appeals rightly applied the maxim, He who comes into
equity must come with clean hands.
Petitioner owns five patents which may be conveniently

identified as the Clutter patent and the four Downie

242

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

patents.* They all cover devices constituting parts of a
ditching machine operated on the principle of a mechanical hoe or mattock. The Clutter patent is basic and the
Downie patents are for claimed improvements.
Prior to the commencement of these suits, the petitioner
brought a suit in the Eastern Division of the Northern
Ohio District against the Byers Machine Company for
infringement of the first three patents. January 31, 1929,
the court held them valid and infringed and granted
injunction. 4 F.Supp. 159. Defendant appealed.
February 9, 1929, petitioner brought these two suits in
the Western Division of the same District, one against the
General Excavator Company and the other against the
Osgood Company. In each, plaintiff alleged infringement
by defendant of the same three patents. Plaintiff immediately applied for temporary injunctions to restrain further infringement. The applications were based upon the
complaints, supporting affidavits and the pleadings, opinion and decree in the Byers case. The court filed a memorandum in which it is stated that, while plaintiff had sustained its patents as against the defenses of an alleged impecunious infringer, defendants were in good faith pressing new defenses that seemed to have merit enough to prevent the application of the rule permitting a temporary injunction merely because of the prior adjudication. The
court denied the injunctions but upon condition that defendants give bonds to pay the profits or damages that
might be decreed against them. In August, 1929, plaintiff
filed supplemental complaints alleging infringement of the
other two patents. November 5, 1930, the Circuit Court of
Appeals affirmed the decree in the Byers case. 44 F. (2d)
* They are Clutter Patent No. 1,317,431, issued September 30, 1919;
Downie Patent No. 1,511,114, issued October 7, 1924; Downie Patent
No. 1,543,250, issued June 23, 1925; Downie Patent No. 1,709,466,
issued April 16, 1929; Downie Patent No. 1,716,432, issued June 11,
1929.

KEYSTONE CO. v. EXCAVATOR CO.
240

Opinion of the Court.

283. Then these cases were consolidated for trial. Plaintiff withdrew its claim that the Osgood Company infringed
the last patent. The district court held the Clutter patent
and the first and fourth Downie patents valid and infringed, the second Downie not infringed and the third
Downie patent invalid.
At the trial of these cases, defendants introduced evidence that plaintiff did not come into court with clean
hands. It was sufficient to sustain findings of fact made
by both courts, in substance as follows: June 27, 1921,
Downie filed the application on which was issued his first
patent. In the preceding winter he had learned of a possible prior use at Joplin, Missouri, by Bernard R. Clutter.
The latter is a brother of the patentee of the Clutter patent and had then recently been in the service of plaintiff
as demonstrator in the use of ditching machinery. Downie
made the application and assigned his rights to plaintiff,
of which he was secretary and general manager. The
patent issued and plaintiff, contemplating the bringing
of an infringement suit thereon against the Byers Machine Company, was advised that the prior use at Joplin
was sufficient to cast doubt upon the validity of the
patent. Downie then went to Bernard R. Clutter and
for valuable considerations-which are described in the
opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals, 62 F. (2d) 48,
and need not be detailed here-obtained from Clutter an
affidavit prepared by Downie to the effect that Clutter's
use of the device was an abandoned experiment, and also
obtained Clutter's agreement to assign plaintiff any rights
he might have as inventor, to keep secret the details of
the prior use and, so far as he was able, to suppress
the evidence. No proof of such use was produced at the
trial of that case. The defendants in these suits took
Clutter's deposition early in 1930. He did not then disclose his arrangement with plaintiff for concealment of
evidence in the Byers case. Their suspicions being

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

aroused by his testimony, defendants in the latter part
of that year again examined him and secured facts upon
which they were able to compel the plaintiff to furnish
the details of the corrupt transaction.
The district court characterized Downie's conduct as
highly reprehensible and found that his purpose was to
keep Clutter silent. But it also found that the plaintiff
did nothing to suppress evidence in these cases. It expressed the opinion that matters pertaining to the motion
for preliminary injunction had no bearing upon the
merits, and that plaintiff's use of the Byers decree was not
a fraud upon the court. And it ruled the maxim did not
apply. The Circuit Court of Appeals held the contrary,
reversed the decrees of the district court and remanded
the cases with instructions to dismiss the complaints
without prejudice. 62 F. (2d) 48. 64 F. (2d) 39.
Plaintiff contends that the maxim does not apply unless the wrongful conduct is directly connected with and
material to the matter in litigation and that, where more
than one cause is joined in a bill and plaintiff is shown
to have come with unclean hands in respect of only one
of them, the others will not be dismissed.
The meaning and proper application of the maxim are
to be considered. As authoritatively expounded, the
words and the reasons upon which it rests extend to the
party seeking relief in equity. " It is one of the fundamental principles upon which equity jurisprudence is
founded, that before a complainant can have a standing
in court he must first show that not only has he a good
and meritorious cause of action, but he must come into
court with clean hands. He must be frank and fair with
the court, nothing about the case under consideration
should be guarded, but everything that tends to a full and
fair determination of the matters in controversy should
be placed before the court." Story's Equity Jurisprudence, 14th ed., § 98. The governing principle is "that

KEYSTONE CO. v. EXCAVATOR CO.
240

Opinion of the Court.

whenever a party who, as actor, seeks to set the judicial
machinery in motion and obtain some remedy, has violated conscience, or. good faith, or other equitable principle, in .his prior conduct, then the doors of the court
will be shut against him in limine; the court will refuse
to interfere on his behalf, to acknowledge his right, or to
award him any remedy." Pomeroy, Equity Jurisprudence,
4th ed., § 397. This Court has declared: "It is a principle
in chancery, that he who asks relief must have acted in
good faith. The equitable powers of this court can never
be exerted in behalf of one who has acted fraudulently
or who by deceit or any unfair means has gained an advantage. To aid a party in such a case would make this
court the abetter of iniquity." Bein v. Heath, 6 How.
228, 247. And again: "A court of equity acts only when
and as conscience commands, and if the conduct of the
plaintiff be offensive to the dictates of natural justice,
then, whatever may be the rights he possesses and whatever use he may make of them in a court of law, he will
be held remediless in a court of equity." Deweese v.
Reinhard, 165 U.S. 386, 390.
But courts of equity do not make the quality of suitors
the test. They apply the maxim requiring clean hands
only where some unconscionable act of one coming for
relief has immediate and necessary relation to the equity
that he seeks in respect of the' matter in litigation. They
do not close their doors because of plaintiff's misconduct,
whatever its character, that has no relation to anything
involved in the..suit, but only for such violations of couscience as in some measure affect the equitable relations
between the parties in respect of something brought before the court for adjudication. Story, id., § 100. Pomeroy, id., § 399. They apply the maxim, not by way of
punishment for extraneous transgressions, but upon considerations that make for the advancement of right and
justice. They are not bound by formula or restrained

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 US.

by any limitation that tends to trammel the free and
just exercise of discretion.
Neither the plaintiff's corruption of Clutter in respect
of the first Downie patent nor its use in these cases of the
Byers decree can fairly be deemed to be unconnected with
causes of action based on the other patents.
Its bills show the devices covered by the five patents
to be important, if not essential, parts of the same machine. And its claims warrant the inference that each
supplements the others. This is made plain by mere reference to the things patented. The Clutter device is for
the hoe or mattock arrangement. The first Downie
is for an improvement designed, by a drop bottom scoop
and other means, to permit more accurate dumping. The
second Downie had for its main purpose the elimination
of a '.'blind spot" in the unloading operation. The
third Downie makes possible and convenient the use of
scoops of different widths upon the same machine. The
fourth Downie device consists of detachable rake teeth
for a scoop.
Had the corruption of Clutter been disclosed at the trial
of the Byers case, the court undoubtedly would have been
warranted in holding it sufficient to require dismissal of
the cause of action there alleged for the infringement of
the Downie patent. Promptly after the decision in that
case plaintiff brought these suits and immediately applied
for injunctions pendente lite. It used the decree of validity there obtained in support, if not indeed as the basis, of
its applications. And plaintiff's misconduct in the Byers
suit remaining undisclosed, that decree was given weight
on the motions for preliminary injunctions. Leeds & Catlin Co. v. Victor Talking Mach. Co., 213 U.S. 301, 312.
1 Walker on Patents (6th ed.), § 704, et seq. As the litigation was to continue for years and the use of the devices
in question was essential to the ditching machinery, it is
clear that the injunctions would have been a burdensome

FED. LAND BANK v. GAINES.
240

Syllabus.

detriment 'to defendants. The amounts of the bonds required in lieu of injunctions attest the importance of the
advantage obtained by use of the decree. While it is not
found, as reasonably it may be inferred from the circumstances, that from the beginning it was plaintiff's intention through suppression of Clutter's evidence to obtain
decree in the Byers case for use in subsequent infringement suits against these defendants and others, it does
clearly appear that the plaintiff made the Byers case a
part of its preparation in these suits. The use actually
made of that decree is sufficient to show that plaintiff did
not come with clean hands in respect of any cause of
action in these cases.
The relation between the device covered by the first
Downie patent and those covered by the other patents,
taken in connection with the use to which plaintiff put
the Byers decree, is amply sufficient to bring these cases
within the maxim. Conard v. Nicoll, 4 Pet. 291, 297.
Clarke v. White, 12 Pet. 178, 193. Carringtonv. The Ann
Pratt, 18 How. 63, 67. Kitchen v. Rayburn, 19 Wall. 254,
263.
Decrees affirmed.
FEDERAL LAND BANK OF COLUMBIA, SOUTH
qAROLINA, v. GAINES.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF NORTH CAROLINA.

No. 112.

Argued November 16, 17, 1933.-Decided December 4,
1933.

1. A National Farm Loan Association, composed of borrowers under
the Federal Farm Loan Act, though in a general sense it is a
public agency or instrumentality for carrying out the policy of
the statute, does not act as the agent of the lending Federal Land
Bank after money transmitted through the Association to the borrower has passed from the control of the Land Bank. P. 254.

