OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Syllabus.

290 U.S.

To summarize, we think it apparent from the agreement
as a whole that resort to litigation was not the principal
thing in mind when it was being made, and that what was
intended was to invest the trustees with full title and
such discretionary powers as might enable them to effect a
helpful adjustment of the situation through refinancing,
composition, exchange of securities and other means, including litigation if needed.
As the transfers under which the plaintiffs held the bonds
and coupons were made to them as trustees, were real and
not simply for purposes of collection, and invested them
with the full title, they were entitled, by reason of their
citizenship and of the amount involved, to bring the suit
in the federal court. The beneficiaries were not necessary
parties and their citizenship was immaterial.!
The judgments of both courts below must be reversed
and the cause remanded to the District Court for further
proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
Judgments reversed.
SOUTHERN RAILWAY CO. v. VIRGINIA.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF VIRGINIA.

No. 26.

Argued October 17, 18, 1933.-Decided December 4, 1933.

1. A state statute (c. 62, Acts of Va., 1930) which attempts to
authorize an administrative officer to require railway companies to
eliminate existing grade crossings and substitute overhead crossings
whenever in his opinion this is necessary for the public safety and
convenience, and which provides no notice to or hearing of a company on the existence of such necessity and no means of reviewing
the officer's decision of it, violates the due process of law clause
of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 194.
2. The police power, like other state powers, is subject to the inhibitions of the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 196
159 Va. 779; 167 S.E. 578, reversed.
7 Dodge v. Tulleys, 144 U.S. 451, 455-456; Coal Co. v. Blatchford,
11 Wall. 172, 175; Knapp v. Railroad Co., 20 Wall. 117, 123-124.

SOUTHERN RY. CO. v. VIRGINIA.
190

Argument for Appellee.

from a judgment of the Supreme Court of Appeals of Virginia which affirmed, on appeal, an order of
the Corporation Commission of the State requiring the
railway company to construct a highway bridge over its
tracks, within the limits of its right of way, to take the
place of a crossing at grade.
APPEAL

Messrs. Sidney S. Alderman and Thomas B. Gay, with
whom Mr. S. R. Prince was on the brief, for appellant.
Messrs. J. F. Hall and Brockenbrough Lamb for
appellee.
If the Commonwealth of Virginia has the power
through any branch of its government to accomplish the
result complained of, as seems to be admitted, then the
form and manner by which the result is accomplished is
clearly within the discretion of the state authorities, free
of federal control. Prentis v. Atlantic Coast Line, 211
U.S. 210, 225; Erie R. Co. v. Public Utility Comm'rs, 254
U.S. 394, 413.
The legislature of the Commonwealth may, without
notice or hearing, make a direct legislative determination
to eliminate a grade crossing. Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co. v.
Nebraka, 170 U.S. 57; Woodruff v. Catlin,54 Conn. 277,
295; New York & N. E. R. Co. v. Bristol, 151 U.S. 556,
567; Hgalth Dept. v. Trinity Church, 154 N.Y. 32.
The enforcing of police regulations of this character
does not involve any taking or depriving of property, and
therefore no notice or hearing is required by the due
process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Mugler v.
Kansas, 123 U.S. 623, 668; Detroit, Ft. W. & B. I. Ry. v.
Osborn, 189 U.S. 383; Chicago & A. R. Co. v. Tranbarger,
238 U.S. 67; Northern Pacific R. Co. v Puget Sound R.
Co.,' 250 U.S. 332; New Orleans Public Service Co. v.
New Orleans, 281 U.S. 682; Erie R. Co. v. Public Utility
Comm'rs, 254 U.S. 394; Missouri Pacific Ry.- Co. v.
Omaha, 235 U.S. 121.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

Grade crossing elimination cases: New York & N. E.
R. Co. v. Bristol, 151 U.S. 556; Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co. v.
Nebraska, 170 U.S. 57; Northern Pacific R. Co. v. Duluth,
208 U.S. 583; St. Paul, M. & M. Ry. Co. v. Minnesota,
214 U.S. 497; C., I. & W. R. Co. v. Connersville, 218 U.S.
336; Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry. Co. v. Minneapolis, 232
U.S. 430; Atlantic Coast Line v. Goldsboro, 232 U.S. 548;
Great Northern R. Co. v. Clara City, 246 U.S. 434; Erie
R. Co. v. Public Utility Comm'rs, 254 U.S. 394; Southern
Ry. Co. v. Durham, 266 U.S. 178; Lehigh Valley R. Co.
v. Public Utility Comm'rs, 278 U.S. 24; N. 0. Public
Service Co. v. New Orleans, 281 U.S. 682.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS delivered the

opinion of the

Court.
This appeal questions the validity of Ch. 62, Acts General Assembly of Virginia, 1930; Michie's Code 1930,
ยง 3974a. Pertinent portions are in the margin.* The
* Ch. 62, Acts General Assembly of Virginia 1930, p. 74.

(Michie's

Code ยง 3974a).
" . ..Whenever the elimination of an existing crossing at grade of
a State road by a railroad, or a railroad by a State road, and the substitution therefor of an overhead . ..crossing becomes, in the opinion
of the state highway commissioner, necessary for public safety and
convenience, .. .the state highway commissioner shall notify in writing the railroad company . . .upon which the existing crossing at
grade . . . is, . . . stating particularly the point at which . . . the

existing grade crossing is to be eliminated .. .and that the public
safety or convenience requires that the crossing be made .. .above
....the tracks of said railroad, or that the existing grade crossing
should be eliminated or abolished, and a crossing constructed above
. .. the tracks of said railroad, . . . and shall submit to said railroad
company plans and specifications of the proposed work, . ..It shall
thereupon be the duty of the railroad company to provide all equipment and materials and construct the overhead .. .crossing, . ..in
accordance with the plans and specifications submitted by the state
highway commissioner, . . . ; provided, however, that if the railroad
company be not satisfied with the plans and specifications submitted

SOUTHERN RY. CO. v. VIRGINIA.
190

Opinion of the Court.

claim is that enforcement of the Act as construed by the
State Supreme Court, would deprive appellant of property without due process of law and thus violate the
XIV Amendment.
Purporting to proceed under the challenged chapter, the
Highway Commissioner, without prior notice, advised appellant that in his opinion public safety and convenience
required elimination of the grade crossing near Antlers;
also, he directed construction there of an overhead passage
according to accompanying plans and specifications. Replying, the Company questioned the Commissioner's conclusion upon the facts, denied the validity of the Act,
and refused to undertake the work. Thereupon, by petition he asked the State Corporation Commission for an
order requiring it to proceed. A demurrer to this questioned the constitutionality of the statute. It especially
pointed out that the Commissioner undertook to ordain,
by the state highway commissioner, such company may within sixty
days after the receipt of said plans and specifications, if the railroad
company and the state highway commissioner be unable in the meantime to agree on plans and specifications, including the grade of the
approaches and the point to which the liability of the railroad shall
extend, file a petition with the state corporation commission setting
out its objections to the plans and specifications and its recommendations of plans and specifications in lieu thereof, and the commission
shall hear the complaint as other complaints are heard and determined by that body, and shall approve the plans submitted by the
state highway commissioner, or other plans in lieu thereof; and it
shall thereupon be the duty of the railroad company to provide all
equipment and materials and construct, widen, strengthen, remodel,
redesign, relocate or replace, as the case may be, the overhead or
underpass crossing, or provide a new or improved structure in lieu
thereof, within its right of way limits, and the state highway commissioner the portion outside of the railroad right of way, unless
otherwise mutually agreed upon, in accordance with the plans and
specifications approved by the State corporation commission."
Upon completion of the work, the costs are to be divided between
the State and the railroad, etc.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

without prior notice, and that there was no provision for
any review except in respect of the proposed plans for
the structure. The Commission overruled the demurrer
and directed the Railway to construct the overhead. The
Supreme Court construed the statute and approved this
action.
As authoritatively interpreted the challenged Act permits the Highway Commissioner-an executive officerwithout notice or hearing to command a railway company
to abolish any designated grade crossing and construct an
overhead when, in his opinion, necessary for public safety
and convenience. His opinion is final upon the fundamental question whether public convenience and necessity
require the elimination, unless what the Supreme Court
denominates " arbitrary " exercise of the granted power
can be shown. Upon petition, filed within sixty days,
the Corporation Commission may consider the proposed
plans and approve or modifythem, but nothing more.
The statute makes no provision for review by any court.
But the Supreme Court has declared that a court of
equity may give relief under an original bill where
"arbitrary " action can be established.
As construed and applied, we think the statute conflicts with the XIV Amendment.
Certainly, to require abolition of an established grade
crossing and the outlay of money necessary to construct
an overhead would take the railway's property in a very
real sense. This seems plain enough both upon reason
and authority. Washington ex rel. Oregon R. & N. Co. v.
Fairchild,224 U.S. 510, 523, 524; GreatNorthern Ry. Co.
v. Minnesota, 238 U.S. 340, 345. See Chicago, M. & St.
P. Ry. Co. v. Board of Comm'rs, 76 Mont. 305; 247 Pac.
162.
If we assume tfiat by proper. legislation a State may
impose upon railways the duty of eliminatilg grade
crossings, when deemed necessary for public safety and
convenience, the question here is whether the challenged
statute meets the requirements of due process of law.

SOUTHERN RY. CO. v. VIRGINIA.
190

Opinion of the Court.

Undoubtedly, it attempts to give an administrative officer
power to make final determination in respect of factsthe character of a crossing and what is necessary for the
public safety and convenience-without notice, without
hearing, without evidence; and upon this ex parte finding, not subject to general review, to ordain that expenditures shall be made for erecting a new structure.
The thing so authorized is no mere police regulation.
In Interstate Commerce Comm'n v. Louisville & N. R.
Co., 227 U.S. 88, 91, replying to the claim that a Commission's order made without substantial supporting evidence was conclusive, this Court declared:
"A finding without evidence is arbitrary and baseless.
And if the Government's contention is correct, it would
mean that the Commission had a power possessed by no
other officer, administrative body, or tribunal under our
Government. It would mean that where rights depended
upon facts, the Commission could disregard all rules of
evidence, and capriciously make findings by administrative fiat. Such authority, however beneficently exercised
in one case, could be injuriously exerted in another; is
inconsistent with rational' justice, and comes under the
Constitution's condemnation of all arbitrary exercise of
power.
"In the comparatively few cases in which such questions have arisen it has been distinctly recognized that
administrative orders, quasi-judicial in character, are
void if a hearing was denied; if that granted was inadequate or manifestly unfair; if the finding was contrary
to the' indisputable character of the evidence.'"
Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry. Co. v. Minnesota, 134 U.S.
418, 457, 458, involved an act of the Minnesota legislature, which permitted the commission finally to fix railway rates without notice. It was challenged because of
conflict with the due process clause. This Court said:
"It deprives the company of its right to a judicial investigation, by due process of law, under the forms and

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

with the machinery provided by the wisdom of successive
ages for the investigation judicially of the truth of a matter in controversy, and substitutes therefor, as an absolute finality, the action of a railroad commission which,
in view of the powers conceded to it by the state court,
cannot be regarded as clothed with judicial functions or
possessing the machinery of a court of justice. . . . No
hearing is provided for, no summons or notice to the company before the commission has found what it is to find
and declared what it is to declare, no opportunity provided for the company to introduce witnesses before the
commission, in fact, nothing which has the semblance of
due process of law; . . .
"The question of the reasonableness of a rate of charge
for transportation by a railroad company, involving as it
does the element of reasonableness both as regards the
company and as regards the public, is eminently a question for judicial investigation, requiring due process of law
for its determination. If the company is deprived of the
power of charging reasonable rates for the use of its property, and such deprivation takes place in the absence of an
investigation by judicial machinery, it is deprived of the
lawful use of its property, and thus, in substance and
effect, of the property itself, without due process of law
and in violation of the Constitution of the United
States; . . ."

The claim that the questioned statute was enacted
under the police power of the State and, therefore, is not
subject to the standards applicable to legislation under
other powers, conflicts with the firmly established rule
that every state power is limited by the inhibitions of the
XIV Amendment. Chicago, M., St. P. & P. Ry. Co. v
Tompkins, 176 U.S. 167; Eubank v. Richmond, 226 U.S.
137, 143; Adams v. Tanner, 244 U.S. 590, 594; -Adkins v.
Children'sHospital, 261 U.S. 525, 549, 550.
Lawton v. Steele, 152 U.S. 133, points out that the right
to destroy private property-nuisances &c.-for pro-

SOUTHERN RY. CO. v. VIRGINIA.
19')

Opinion of the Court.

tection against imminent danger, has long been recognized.
Such action does no violence to the XIV Amendment.
The principles which control have no present application.
Here, the statute itself contemplates material delay; no
impending danger demands immediate action. During
sixty days the railway may seek modification of the plans
proposed.
Counsel submit that the Legislature, without giving
notice or opportunity to be heard, by direct order might
have required elimination of the crossing. Consequently,
they conclude the same end may be accomplished in any
manner which it deems advisable, without violating the
Federal Constitution. But if we assume that a state legislature may determine what public welfare demands and
by direct conunand require a railway to act accordingly,
it by no means follows that an administrative officer may
be empowered, without notice or hearing, to act with
finality upon his own opinion and ordain the taking of
private property. There is an obvious difference between
legislative determination and the finding of an administrative official not supported by evidence. In theory, at
least, the legislature acts upon adequate knowledge after
full consideration and through members who represent the
entire public.
Chapter 62 undertakes to empower the Highway Commissioner to take railway property if and when he deems it
necessary for public safety and convenience. It makes no
provision for a hearing, and grants no opportunity for a
review in any court. This, we think, amounts to the delegation of purely arbitrary and unconstitutional power unless the indefinite right of resort to a court of equity
referred to by the court below affords adequate protection.
Considering the decisions here, it is clear that no such
authority as that claimed for the Commissioner could be
entrusted to an administrative office or body under the
power to tax, to impose assessments for benefits, to regulate common carriers, to establish drainage districts, or to

198

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

regulate business. Turner v. Wade, 254 U.S. 64, 70;
Browning v. Hooper, 269 U.S. 396, 405; Interstate Commerce Comm'n v. Louisville & N. R. Co., 227 U.S. 88;
Embree v. Kansas City Road District, 240 U.S. 242, 247;
Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U.S. 356. Appellee makes no
claim to the contrary. He affirms, however, that under
the police power the legislature could rightly grant the
challenged authority. But, as pointed out above, this is
subject to the inhibitions of the XIV Amendment, and we
think the suggested distinction between it and other
powers of the State is unsound.
This Court has often recognized the power of a State,
acting through an executive officer or body, to order the
removal of grade crossings; but in all these cases there was
the right to a hearing and review by some court. See
Great Northern Ry. Co. v. Clara City, 246 U.S. 434; Erie
R. Co. v. Public Utility Comm'rs, 254 U.S. 394; Lehigh
Valley R. Co. v. Board of Comm'rs, 278 U.S. 24.
After affirming appellant's obligation to comply with
the Commissioner's order, the court below said: "The
railroad is not without remedy. Should the power vested
in the Highway Commissioner be arbitrarily exercised,
equity's long arm will stay his hand." But, by sanctioning the order directing the Railway to proceed, it, in effect,
approved action taken without hearing, without evidence,
without opportunity to know the basis therefor. This
was to rule that such action was not necessarily "arbitrary." There is nothing to indicate what that court
would deem arbitrary action or how this could be established in the absence of evidence or hearing. In circumstances like those here disclosed no contestant could
have fair opportunity for relief in a court of equity. There
would be nothing to show the grounds upon which the
Commissioner based his conclusion. He alone would be
cognizant of the mental processes which begot his urgent
opinion.

MISSOURI STATE INS. CO. v. JONES.

199

Syllabus.

190

The infirmities of the enactment are not relieved by an
indefinite right of review in respect of some action spoken
of as arbitrary. Before its property can be taken under
the edict of an administrative officer the appellant is
entitled to a fair hearing upon the fundamental facts.
This has not been accorded. The judgment below must
be reversed. The cause will be remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.

The CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JUSTICE STONE and MR. JusTICE CARDOZO dissent upon the ground that there has been
a lawful delegation to the State Highway Commissioner
of the power to declare the need for the abatement of a
nuisance through the elimination of grade crossings dangerous to life and limb; that this power may be exercised
without notice or a hearing (Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co. v.
Nebraska, 170 U.S. 57, 77), provided adequate opportunity is afforded for review in the event that the power is
perverted or abused; and that such opportunity has been
given by the statutes of Virginia as construed by its
highest court.
MISSOURI STATE LIFE INSURANCE CO. ET AL. V.
JONES, ADMINISTRATOR.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ARKANSAS:

No. 16.

Argued November 8, 1933.-Decided December 4, 1933.

1. The amount of an attorney's fee for services in the case, demanded
pursuant to a state statute, is not " costs " within the meaning of
the federal removal act (Jud. Code, ยง 24), but should be added
to the principal sum sued for in determining the amount in controversy. P. 202.
2. Provision of the state statute that the attorney's fee shall be
taxed and collected as costs, does not make it costs within the
meaning of the federal act. Id.
186 Ark. 519; 54 S.W. (2d) 407, reversed.

