MULLEN BENEVOLENT CORP. v. U.S.
82

89

Syllabus.

afforded to ship owners by the acts of Congress. But this
view disregards the nature of the warranty. The fitness
of the ship at the moment of breaking ground is the matter
warranted, and not her suitability under conditions thereafter arising which are beyond the owner's control. Compare Armour & Co. v. Fort Morgan S. S. Co., 270 U.S. 253;
The Ice King, 261 Fed. 897; The Soerstad, 257 Fed. 130.
The judgment is
Affirmed.

JOHN K. & CATHERINE S. MULLEN BENEVOLENT CORP. v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 32.

Argued October 20, 1933.-Decided November 6, 1933.

I. An assessment for state taxation of lands owned by the United
States is void. P. 91.
2. Bonds issued under authority of statutes of Idaho providing for
the creation of local improvement districts (Idaho Comp. Stats.,
1919, §§ 3999-4151) have no general lien on the lands in the
district and, save through the assessment, no special lien on any
tract. P. 94.
3. The acquisition by the United States of lands in local improvement districts created under authority of statutes of Idaho (supra),
frustrating the replenishment, by a reassessment, of the assessment fund, which was the sole source of payment of bonds
issued to finance the improvements-no lien remaining on the
lands when the purchases by the United States were consummated,
and a reassessment thereafter being ineffective to create one--.
was not a taking of the bondholder's property, and the District
Court was without jurisdiction under the Tucker Act of a suit to
recover the amount remaining due on the bonds. P. 94.
4. The acts of the Government's agents in withholding a portion
of the purchase money pending an investigation of the possibility
that the realty would be liable for a reassessment did not give
rise to an implied contract on the part of the Government to pay
any balance remaining due on the bonds if no lien existed at the
date of acquisition. A purpose to pay only valid subsisting liens

90

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

negatives an agreement to pay something which had no such
character. P. 95.
63 F. (2d) 48, affirmed.

CERTIORARI, 289 U.S. 721, to review a judgment reversing a judgment against the United States in a suit under
the Tucker Act.
Mr. Branch Bird, with whom Mr. W. G. Bissell was
on the brief, for petitioner.
Assistant Attorney General Wideman, with whom Solicitor General Biggs and Messrs. Wm. W. Scott and W. S.
Ward were on the brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTIcE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This action was brought in the District Court for Idaho,
under the Tucker Act, to recover a balance due on improvement district bonds issued by the village of American Falls, Idaho, for sidewalk and sewer construction.
The theory of the petitioner, holder of the securities, was
that the liability of the United States arose out of its
acquisition of land in the districts for the construction of
the American Falls reservoir under the authority of the
Reclamation Act of June 17, 1902 (c. 1093, 32 Stat. 388).
The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed a judgment in
petitioner's favor, and the case was brought here by
certiorari.
In 1915 and 1916 the village (now city) of American
Falls duly created local improvement districts Nos. 1 and
2 for the construction of sewers, and local improvement
district No. 8 for the laying of sidewalks, authorized bond
issues to finance the work, and levied against the several
parcels of land in the districts assessments totaling an
amount calculated to suffice for the payment of principal
and interest of the bonds. All of the bonds of the three

MULLEN BENEVOLENT CORP. v. U.S.
89

Opinion of the Court.

districts were purchased from the village by J. K. Mullen,
who in 1925 transferred to the petitioner certain of the
bonds of each district. Beginning in 1920 the respondent
acquired all the real property within the three districts
for the construction of the reservoir. In some cases title
passed by condemnation, but in most instances by deeds
from the then owners. The acquisition was completed
prior to.January 1, 1927. As title to each lot was obtained
the United States paid or caused to be paid all existing
assessments against the lot. There was general knowledge prior to 1927 that the total of the assessments would
be insufficient to pay all the bonds. The petitioner asserts, and we may assume, that statutory authority exists,
in case of a deficiency arising from causes shown by the
record, to re-assess the property within the districts for
the amount of the deficiency. By ordinances enacted July
3, 1928, and proceedings pursuant to them, the city reassessed all the land within the districts. But as the land
was then owned by the United States, the assessment was
a nullity. Van Brocklin v. Tennessee, 117 U.S. 151. At
some time between 1920 and January 1, 1927, the agents
of the Government responsible for the acquisition of the
reservoir site learned that the original assessments were insufficient to pay the outstanding bonds. This knowledge
led them to require vendors to leave part of the purchase
price on deposit with the United States pending determination of the Government's liability for probable reassessments. Subsequently to the institution of the present suit these officials, apparently upon advice that assessments made after the conveyances could not affect the title
of the United States, caused the moneys so withheld to be
paid to the vendors. The total so retained and ultimately
paid over was in excess of the amount due upon the petitioner's bonds.
The petitioner argues that the bonds were property and
were taken by the respondent and, in the alternative, that

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

they were liens, actual or inchoate, on the realty, and as
the lien could not be foreclosed against lands owned by
the United States, the respondent's acquisition of the lots
destroyed the value of the securities and gave rise to an
implied promise to pay the sums remaining due to the
bondholders. The respondent replies that the bonds were
not taken, were not liens upon the real estate acquired,
but only upon the existing assessments, or to the amount
of these assessments, all of which were cleared from the
land at the time of the conveyances to the Government;
the United States recognized no lien of the bonds upon
the tracts in question and made no contract express or
implied to pay the bonds or any future assessments; suit
was not brought within the time limited by the Tucker
Act; the cause of action, if any, was in Mullen, the owner
of the bonds at the time title passed to the United States,
and R.S. 3477 forbids assignment to the petitioner. An
understanding of the status of-the bonds and the rights of
their owner as respects the real property in the improvemept districts is necessary to a solution of some of the
questions presented.
The Idaho statutes provide for the creation by municipal action of improvement districts for constructing public works of the character with which we are here concerned (Idaho Compiled Statutes, 1919, §§ 3999-4151,
inclusive*). The first step is an ordinance declaring the
intention to create the improvement, describing the section to be improved, estimating the cost, and declaring
that the cost is to be assessed against the contiguous
property (§ 4003). Protests may be made and are to be
heard and considered, and thereafter an ordinance is
passed creating the district and providing for the improvement and for taxation and assessment of the cost
*Reference will be made only to the sections dealing with sidewalks,
&c., since those applicable to sewers are of similar import.

MULLEN BENEVOLENT CORP. v. U.S.
89

Opinion of the Court.

upon all parcels of land within the district, in proportion
to benefits (§ 4005). "Whenever any expense or cost
of work shall have been assessed on any land the
amount of said expenses shall become a lien upon said
lands," . . . (§4007). The municipality may provide
for payment by instalments instead of levying the entire
assessment at one time, and in that case may issue in the
name of the municipality improvement bonds of the district payable in instalments within ten years (§ 4014).
Provision is made for annual levies to meet instalments
and interest (§ 4017), for the form of the bonds (§ 4018),
and for the redemption of their lots by the respective
owners. If so redeemed the property affected is not
thereafter to be liable for further special assessments for
the same improvement except as in § 4024 provided
(§ 4019). Re-assessment on all the property in the district is permitted by § 4024, "Whenever, for any cause,
mistake or inadvertence the amount assessed shall not be
sufficient to pay the cost of the improvement made and
enjoyed by owners of property in the local assessment
district where the same is made," . . . It was under
this section that the re-assessments were made in the
instant-case.
The municipality is not liable for the amount of the
bonds (§ 4026). Its only duty is to collect the assessments and place them in a separate fund set apart for payment of principal and interest. In fulfilment of this obligation the city may bring suit to recover out of each lot
the amount of any assessment against it (§ 4007), and if
the municipality fails or neglects to collect, the bondholder may proceed to do so in his own name, and may
foreclose the lien of the assessment (§ 4023). The section
provides that the bonds "shall transfer to the . . . owner
or holder, all the right and interest of such municipality
-inand with respect to every such assessment, and the lien

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
,Opinion of the Court.

290 US.

thereby created against the property of such owners assessed," and shall authorize the holder "to receive, sue for
and collect, or have collected such assessment embraced
in any such bond" . . . The bonds are to provide that

the principal sum and interest is payable out of the local
improvement fund created for the making of the improvement by assessment, and not otherwise (§ 4018), and "the
holder of any such bond shall look only to the fund provided by such assessment for the principal or interest of
such bond" (§ 4025). The lot owner is not personally
liable for the assessment.
The bondholder is in equity the owner of the assessment fund and, as the real party in interest, may, in event
of the city's default in collection, enforce the city's right
to collect the assessment out of the land. The bonds have
no general lien upon the lands in the district and save
through the assessment no special lien on any tract. New
First Nat. Bank v. Weiser, 30 Idaho 15, 22; 166 Pa. 213.
The petitioner insists that the bonds are property and
were in legal effect taken by the respondent. The argument is that the sole source of payment was a re-assessment upon the lots in the improvement districts, and as
the action of the respondent rendered such procedure vain,
the United States as effectually destroyed the chose in
action as if it had seized the instruments evidencing the
right. But the bonds were not taken. At the date of
acquisition by theGovernment the real estate was subject
to be assessed in the future for sundry taxes, amongst
them taxes in the nature of re-assessments for sewers and
sidewalks. It is true these could not thereafter be levied
on property which had passed to the United States but
this does not mean that the Government appropriated the
.right to assess them in futuro, nor that it took the benefit
which might accrue to bondholders consequent on such
future levies. By purchase of the lands the United States

MULLEN BENEVOLENT CORP. v. U.S.
89

95

Opinion of the Court.

at most frustrated action by the city to replenish the
assessment fund to which alone the bondholder must look
for payment of his bonds. But this was not a taking 'of
the bondholder's property. Omnia Commercial Co. v.
United States, 261 U.S. 502.
What has been said shows that the respondent did not
take or destroy any lien belonging to the petitioner. None
remained upon the land, when the purchases were consummated. The re-assessments were the result of proceedings begun thereafter. They were ineffective to create
a lien upon lands owned by the Government. United
States v. Buffalo, 54 F. (2d) 471.
The respondent did not expressly contract with the
petitioner to make good any unpaid balance on the outstanding bonds. Can an implied contract of that nature
be spelled out of the acts of the Government's agents?
We think not. Care was taken to free the lands of all
liens, including the assessments then unpaid. The vendors were under no legal liability at the date of transfer for
any future re-assessments. United States v. Buffalo,
supra; Brown v. Silverton, 97 Ore. 441; 190 Pac. 971;
Beezley v. Astoria, 126 Ore. 177, 184; 269 Pac. 216. The
withholding of a portion of the purchase-nioney pending
an, investigation of the possibility that the realty w3uld be
liable for a re-assessment, falls far short of indicating that
the Government intended to pay the bondholders if it
should develop that no lien existed at the date of acquisition. A purpose to pay only valid subsisting liens negatives an agreement to pay something which had no such
character. Compare Tempel v. United States, 248 U.S.
121; Alabama v. United States, 282 U.S. 502.
These views render unnecessary discussion of the contentions with respect to the timeliness of the suit and the
assignability of the cause of action.
The judgment is
Affirmed.

