JACOBS v. UNITED STATES.
Argument for the United States.
JACOBS ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 15.

Argued October 13, 1933.-Decided November 6, 1933.

1. The obligation of the United States to pay just compensation for
private property taken under its power of eminent domain rests
upon the Fifth Amendment, independent of statute or express
promise. P. 16.
2. A promise to pay is implied because the duty is imposed by the
Amendment. Id.
3. In a suit under the Tucker Act to recover just compensation for
property taken by the Government, there may be claimed and
allowed, in the form of interest, such addition to the value of the
property at the time of the taking as will produce the full equivalent of that value paid contemporaneously with the taking. P. 16.
4. This is not a claim for interest within the meaning of Jud. Code
§ 177. P. 17.
5. United States v. North American Co., 253 U.S. 330, distinguished.
P. 18.
63 F. (2d) 326, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

289 U.S. 719, to review a judgment of the

Circuit Court of Appeals reversing the District Court as
respects allowance of interest in a suit for just compensation brought under the Tucker Act.
Mr. Charles C. Moore for petitioners.
Solicitor General Biggs, with whom Assistant Attorney
General Wideman and Messrs. William W. Scott and W.
S. Ward were on the brief, for the United States.
The rule has frequently been declared that in the absence of an express agreement or statutory authority,
interest may not be allowed on a claim against the
United States. Although this rule is unquestioned, its
application in "just compensation" cases is a matter of
difficulty.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Argument for the United States.

290 U.S.

The present case is a suit under the Tucker Act based
upon an implied contract. United States v. North American Co., 253 U.S. 330, was just such a case and is direct
authority for the position that the claimants here are not
entitled to interest. In several more recent cases, interest
has been allowed in suits brought under the Tucker Act.
Liggett & Myers Co. v. United States, 274 U.S. 215;
Phelps v. United States, 274 U.S. 341. But these have
all been cases where the taking was under the Lever Act,
or a similar statute expressly authorizing the payment of
"just compensation." Although they decide that "just
compensation" includes interest, it does not necessarily
follow that interest must be paid on a claim based on an
implied contract. There is language in some of these
cases, particularly the Phelps case, which is difficult to
reconcile with the decision in the North American case.
In the Phelps case, while the taking was under the Lever
Act, the claim was not prosecuted under the procedure
provided by that act. Phelps brought his suit in the
Court of Claims, a court which had no jurisdiction of a
claim under § 10 of the Lever Act. United States v.
Pfitsch, 256 U.S. 547. This Court held that the claim
was founded on the Fifth Amendment and that there was
an implied obligation to make just compensation. If the
decision stood on this ground alone, it might be reconcilable with the North American case, which was distinguished in the opinion. But this Court also held that the
owner's claim was one arising out of implied contract, but
that, nevertheless, § 177 of the Judicial Code did not prohibit the inclusion of interest, because the claim was not
for interest within the meaning of that section. The
Liggett & Myers case was also a suit in the Court of
Claims under the Tucker Act. This Court held that the
claimant's property was taken by eminent domain and
that its just compensation included interest.

JACOBS v. UNITED STATES.
13

Opinion of the Court.

If the rule of the North American case is still to be
followed, the judgment below should be affirmed.
Whether that rule should be modified in View of the reasoning in the Phelps case and in other cases is a question
for the consideration of this Court.
The Solicitor General in his oral argument stated that
in his opinion the compensation awarded the owner should
be the same whether he was plaintiff or defendant, and
that this case could not in principle be distinguished from
the Phelps and Liggett & Myers cases.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE HUGHES

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Petitioner Jacobs and the testator of petitioner Gunter
owned farms lying along Jones, Creek, a tributary of the
Tennessee River, in Jackson County, Alabama. Across
this river the United States constructed Widow's Bar
Dam under authority of Acts of Congress, 39 Stat. 399;
40 Stat. 1282. Surveys by the Government showed that
the construction of the dam caused an increase in the
occasional overflows of petitioners' lands and negotiations
followed for the purchase of easements of flowage. Offers
of settlement being deemed to be inadequate, petitioners
brought separate suits under the Tucker Act, 28 U.S.C.,
§ 41 (20), to recover compensation for the property taken.
The Circuit Court of Appeals, reversing the judgment of
the District Court in the suit of Jacobs, held that he was
entitled to compensation. 45 F. (2d) 34. Thereupon,
the two suits were consolidated and petitioners had judgment. The District Court found that they were entitled
to the amount of damage caused by the construction of the
dam as of the date of its completion (October 1, 1925),
"together with interest thereon at 6 per cent. from the
date of said taking until now as just compensation under
the Fifth Amendment to the Constitution of the United

16

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 US.

States." On appeal by the Government the Circuit Court
of Appeals held that interest was not recoverable. 63 F.
(2d) 326. This Court granted certiorari. 289 U.S. 719.
The only question before us is as to the right to the item
of interest. The Government contemplated the flowage
of the lands, that damage would result therefrom, and
that compensation w6 uld be payable. A servitude was created by reason of intermittent overflows which impaired
the use of the lands for agricultural purposes. 45 F. (2d)
p. 37; 63 F. (2d) p. 327. There was thus a partial taking
of the lends for which the Government was bound to
make just compensation under the Fifth Amendment.
United States v. Cress, 243 U.S. 316, 327-329; United
States v. Lynah, 188 U.S. 445, 470; Hurley v. Kincaid,
285 U.S. 95, 104. The Circuit Court of Appeals, distinguishing the present suits from condemnation proceedings instituted by the Government, held that the suits
were founded upon an implied contract and hence that
interest could not be, allowed, citing United States v.
North American Co., 253 U.S. 330.
This ruling cannot be sustained. The suits were based
on the right to recover just compensation for property
taken by the United Sates for public use in the exercise
of its power of eminent domain. That right was guaranteed by the Constitution. The fact that condemnation
proceedings were not instituted and that the right was asserted in suits by the owners did not change the essential
nature of the claim. The form of the remedy did not
qualify the right. It rested upon the Fifth Amendment.
Statutory recognition was not necessary. A promise to
pay was not necessary. Such a promise was implied because of the duty to pay imposed by the Amendment.
The suits were thus founded upon the Constitution of the
United States. 28 U.S.C. 41 (20).
The amount recoverable was just compensation, not
inadequate compensation. The concept of just compensa-

JACOBS v. UNITED STATES.
13

Opinion of the Court.

tion is comprehensive and includes all elements, "and no
specific command to include interest is necessary when
interest or its equivalent is a part of such compensation."
The owner is not limited to the value of the property at
the time of the taking; "he is entitled to such addition as
will produce the full equivalent of that value paid contemporaneously with the taking." Interest at a proper
rate "is a good measure by which to ascertain the amount
so to be added." Seaboard Air Line R. Co. v. United
States, 261 U.S. 299, 306. That suit was brought by the
owner under § 10 of the Lever Act, which, in authorizing
the President to requisition property for public use and to
pay just compensation, said nothing as to interest. But
the Court held that the right to just compensation could
not be taken away by statute or be qualified by the omission of a provision for interest where such an allowance
was appropriate in order to make the compensation adequate. See, also, United States v. Rogers, 255 U.S. 163,
169.
The principle was restated in Phelps v. United States,
274 U.S. 341. There the suit was brought in the Court of
Claims, and that court gave judgment for the value of the
property as it was found to be at the time of the requisition. Plaintiffs insisted that they were entitled to an additional amount to produce the equivalent of the value of
the property " paid contemporaneously" and that, for this
purpose, interest as a reasonable measure should be allowed. This Court sustained the claim. The Court held
that judgment in 1926 for the value of the use of the property in 1918 or 1919, without more, was not sufficient to
constitute just compensation; that the claim was not for
"interest" within the meaning of § 177 of the Judicial
Code (28 U.S.C. 284) and that that provision did not preclude the recovery of the additional amount asked. To
the same effect are Brooks-Scanlon Corp. v. United States,

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Syllabus.

290 U:S.

265 U.S. 106, 123; Liggett & Myers Co..v. United States,
274 U.S. 215.
The case of United States v: North American Co., supra,
cannot be regarded as establishing a different rule for the
instant case. See Seaboard Air Line R. Co. v. United
States, supra, p. 305; Phelps v. United States, supra, pp.
343,344. The North American case rested upon its special
facts. There the original taking was tortious and created
no liability on the part of the Government. Subsequent
action was held to create a liability which rested upon an
implied contract. The Court said that the suit was not
founded upon the Fifth Amendment. 253 U.S. pp. 334,
335. Suits brought to enforce the constitutional right to
just compensation are governed by the later decisions
which are directly in point.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed and the cause is remanded for further proceedings
in conformity with this opinion. *
Reversed.

MISSOURI

ET AL. v.

FISKE

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 27.

Argued October 18, 1933.-Decided November 6, 1933.

1. A State may. waive, by appearing, its immunity as a sovereign
from being sued by individuals. P. 24.
2. But an intervention in a suit pending in a federal court, limited
to a request of the State that securities involved in that suit be
not distributed but be held in the registry until a claim of the State
in regard to them may be adjudicated in a proceeding begun by
the State in its own court, is not such an appearance as will subject the State to a litigation of the claim in the federal court. P. 25.

3. The Eleventh Amendment is an explicit limitation upon the judicial power of the United States, and applies to equitable demands
and remedies as well as to suits for money judgments. Pp. 25, 27.

