322

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Syllabus.

290 U.S.

The court impliedly so holds and necessarily--even if sub
silentio-overrules its decision on that point in Kelly v.
Griffin, 241 U.S. 6, 15.
The contracting parties, upon adequate grounds and
in accordance with uniform usage, have always adhered
to tho principle that extradition will not be granted for
acts that are not deemed criminal in the place of asylum.
There is nothing in the treaties to support the majority
opinion that, while England is not similarly bound, the
United States agreed to deliver up fugitives for acts not
criminal in the place of asylum.
The proviso in Article X prescribes the evidence that
the demanding country is required to produce. It impliedly indicates that neither party agreed to extradite for
acts not criminal under its laws.
The letters of Secretary Calhoun pointed to by our
order for reargument do not support the majority opinion.
They have no bearing upon the question presented.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals should
be reversed.

I am authorized to say that MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS and
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS join in this dissent.
STRINGFELLOW v. ATLANTIC COAST LINE R.
CO.*
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 71.

Argued November 14, 1933.-Decided December 4, 1933.

In actions (consolidated for trial) against a railroad for deaths of
the driver of an automobile and persons riding with him, in a
Together with No. 95, Atlantic Coast Line R. Co. v. String-

fellow, certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circut.

STRINGFELLOW v. ATL. COAST LINE.
322

323

Opinion of the Court.

grade crossing accident, there is fatal inconsistency in sustaining a
directed verdict for defendant as respects the driver, upon the
ground that his negligence alone caused the accident, and in deciding, upon the very same evidence, that as respects those riding
with him, the jury might properly attribute the accident to concurrent negligence of the driver and the railway employees. P. 325.
64 F. (2d) 173, reversed.
CERTIORARI * to review judgments of the Circuit Court

of Appeals on appeal from judgments of the District
Court in favor of the railroad company. The Circuit
Court of Appeals, in No. 71, affirmed the judgment of
the District Court; in No. 95, it reversed.
Mr. Win. C. McLean, with whom Mr. Doyle Campbell
was on the brief, for Stringfellow.
Mr. McKinney Barton, with whom Messrs. James R.
Bussey, F. Barron Grier, and W. E. Kay were on the brief,
for the Atlantic Coast Line R. Co.
MR. JUSTICE ROBERTS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Guy Stringfellow and two of his minor children, who
were riding with him in an automobile, lost their lives
as the -result of a collision with a train of the Atlantic
Coast Line Railroad at a right-angled level crossing in
Dunedin, Florida. His widow instituted five actions in
the District Court for Southern Florida, one as widow
to recover for the death of her husband; two as widow
for the loss of the services of the deceased children; and
two as administratrix of the children. The cases were consolidated for trial, and verdicts were directed for the
defendant in all of them. Separate judgments were entered. Upon appeal, the Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed
the judgment in the action for the death of the husband,
but reversed and remanded for new trials in the remaining
cases.
*See

Table of Cases Reported in this volume.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

There was conflicting testimony as to the speed of the
train and the sounding of warnings of its approach, but
verdicts were, nevertheless, directed because the trial
judge thought the evidence permitted of no conclusion
but that Stringfellow's negligence in driving up to and
across the railroad tracks, with the approaching train in
full view, when he could have stopped and avoided the
collision, was the sole proximate cause of the casualties.
A majority of the Circuit Court of Appeals, upon a reexamination of the evidence, concurred with the trial
court so far as the husband's case was concerned, but
found that in the actions brought on account of the children's deaths there was room for a finding by a jury that
the negligence of the husband and that of the railroad's
employees concurred in bringing about the disaster. The
dissenting judge thought the train crew's negligence concurred with Stringfellow's in causing the collision, and
therefore, all of the cases presented a question for the
jury. The widow petitioned for the writ of certiorari
in the action for the husband's death, and the company in
the, cases relating to the children; and the prayers of both
were granted.
The applicable rules are not those of the common law
(as to which compare Miller v. Union Pacific R. Co., de•cided this day, ante, p. 227) but are declared by the Compiled General Laws of Florida, which are:
"§ 7051. A railroad company shall be liable for any
damage done to persons, stock or other property, by the
running of the locomotives, or cars, or other machinery
of such company, or for damage done by any person in
th employ and service of such company, unless the company shall make it appear that their agents have exercised all ordinary and reasonable care and diligence, the
presumption in all cases being against the company.

STRINGFELLOW v. ATL COAST LINE.
322

325

Opinion of the Court.

" § 7052. No person shall recover damages from a railroad company for injury to himself or his property, Where
the same is done by his consent, or is caused by his own
negligence. If the complainant and the agents of the
company are both at fault, the former may recover, but
the damages shall be diminished or increased by the
jury in proportion to the amount of default attributable
to him."
Under decisions of the Supreme Court of Florida construing and applying these statutes, the railroad may
overcome the presumption created by § 7051 and defeat
recovery in all the actions by establishing that the injury
was caused solely and proximately by the negligence of
the husband. This was the unanimous holding of the
Circuit Court of Appeals, and counsel do not dispute its
accuracy. Applying this rule, the majority said [64 F.
(2d) 173, 174]: "It is appellee's contention that the presumption of its negligence, which arose under that section
[7051], upon proof of the injuries as alleged, was overcome by further proof which disclosed that those injuries
were caused solely by the negligence of the injured persons, and that the case presented is not one which calls
for the application of the rule prescribed in Section 7052
for apportionment of damages, because no fault was attributable to it." And further: "A careful and prudent
driver of an automobile would not under the circumstances
have undertaken to drive over the,crossing in front of the
approaching train. Notwithstanding Section 7052, he
could not have recovered for an injury, and so recovery
cannot be had on account of his death."
As respects the actions brought for the children's deaths,
the majority held that the jury should have been allowed
to decide whether the negligence of their father concurred
with that of the railroad to bring about the injurious
result.

326

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
290 U.S.

Syllabus.

On its face the opinion is inconsistent, for under the
second clause of § 7052, if the husband's negligence were
concurrent with that of the railroad's employees the plaintiff might recover, although her damages would be diminished by reason of the concurring negligence of the
decedent. In order to defeat her, it must be found that
his negligence was the sole proximate cause of his death.
But if that be found, it is impossible to understand how
the same negligence could be a concurring and proximate
cause with the negligence of the train crew in bringing
about the deaths of the children. And the converse is
true; for if both concurrently participated in causing
the accident, it is impossible to see how the negligence
of either could be the s616 proximate cause of the result.
Plainly one of the two holdings is erroneous; but it is
not our province to examine the testimony and determine which is correct. This should be done below. The.
judgments are reversed and the cases remanded to the
Circuit Court of Appeals with instructions to determine
whether the evidence justified the direction of verdicts on
the ground that the deceased husband's negligence was
the sole proximate cause of the collision, or required a
submission of that question, and the question of concurrent negligence to the jury; and to enter judgments
accordingly.
Reversed.

GIBBES v. ZIMMERMAN

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.

No. 117.

Argued November 17, 1933.-Decided December 4, 1933.

1. The question whether a state law violates the contract clause of
the Federal -Constitution can not be considered on appeal from a
state court, where the appellant did not rely upon or mention that
clause in his pleadings but invoked only provisions of the state
constitution respecting contract obligations, and where the state
court did not discuss or mention it in disposing of the case. P. 328.

