OAKES v. LAKE.
Opinion of the Court.
OAKES v. LAKE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 5. Argued October 11, 1933.-Decided November 6, 1933.
1. A state court receiver who, as such, had taken possession of personal property (cattle) afterwards found in another State in possession of another, is entitled to sue for repossession in that State,

without an ancillary appointment. P. 61.
2. The principle upon which the receiver may do this is one of law
and not of comity. P. 63.
3. Assuming, but not deciding, that in a suit in a federal court in
Idaho, under the so-called claim and delivery statute of that State,
property held by a sheriff under process issued by a state court can
not be repossessed, nevertheless the value of the property and
damages may be recovered. P. 64.
82 F. (2d) 728, reversed.
CERTIORARI,

289 U.S. 717, to review a judgment affirm-

ing a judgment of non-suit in an action brought in the
District Court by a foreign receiver under the Idaho
claim and delivery statute.
Mr. George B. Guthrie with whom Messrs. James G.
Wilson and John F. Reilly were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. William Healy submitted for respondent.
MR.

JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is an action under the Idaho " claim and delivery"
statute brought by petitioner in the federal district court
for the district of Idaho. The complaint alleges that petitioner is a resident and inhabitant of the State of Oregon, and is the duly qualified receiver of the property
which is the subject matter of the action, having been so
appointed by an fOregon state circuit court; that follow-

60

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

ing his appointment and qualification, and prior to March,
1931, as such receiver he took into his possession certain
designated cattle, and has ever since been entitled to the
immediate and exclusive possession thereof; that about
the first day of July, 1931, the respondent took possession
of the cattle in the State of Idaho by virtue of a writ of
attachment; that respondent has refused to return said
cattle to petitioner, although demand therefor was made
prior to the commencement of the action. Judgment was
prayed to the effect that petitioner is the owner and entitled to the immediate possession of the cattle, and in lieu
thereof that he recover from respondent the sum of $5,000.
The answer, among other things, denies that petitioner
took possession of the cattle as alleged, or any of them,
and avers affirmatively that respondent in his official
capacity seized the cattle upon a writ of execution duly
issued by an Idaho state district court.
The case was tried before the federal district court and
a jury. Petitioner offered evidence tending to show that
he had taken actual possession of the cattle in the State
of Oregon, and that the cattle thereafter were found in
Idaho and there seized by respondent. At the conclusion
of petitioner's case respondent moved for non-suit and
dismissal, upon the grounds, (1) that the proof shows
'that plaintiff had no capacity to sue in the courts of
Idaho, since he had neither title to the property under
the Oregon law or the order of ihe court appointing him,
nor actual possession thereof, either in the State of Oregon
or in the State of Idaho; (2) that an action of replevin
will not lie in a United States court against a sheriff to
take property from the possession of a state court. A
third ground was urged, which we do not consider. It
is without merit and is not pressed here. The court
granted the motion, saying "that the proof is insufficient
to initiate the liability on this hearing."

OAKES v. LAKE.
59

Opinion of the Court.

1. Upon appeal to the circuit court of appeals, that
court, without considering other assignments of error, affirmed the judgment upon the ground that a receiver appointed in a state court is not entitled to sue in a foreign
jurisdiction to repossess cattle, which, after being put in
charge of his agent, cross over the boundary line into a
foreign jurisdiction. Although respondent contends
qtherwise, the court below reached that conclusion in the
face of an assumption that actual possession of the cattle
had been taken by petitioner in Oregon. The language
of the court follows:
"Granting the soundness of the contention that the
receiver was entitled to the undisturbed possession of the
property and assuming that he actually had such possession [italics supplied], and granting or assuming that he
had the power to sue locally in replevin for an unlawful
interference with his right of possession, nevertheless such
right of possession did not vest him with the title necessary to sue in the court below without an ancillary appointment therein; and he was not entitled to bring the
suit as a matter of comity." 62 F. (2d) 728, 730.
Upon the same assumption, namely, that the receiver
had reduced the property to his actual possession in the.
State of Oregon, we reach a different conclusion.
The general rule undoubtedly is that an ordinary chancery receiver, having no other authority than that arising from his appointment as such, cannot as of right
maintain an action in a state other than that in which he
was appointed. .The decision in Booth v. Clark, 17 How.
322, to that effect has been uniformly followed by this
court. See, for example, Great Western Mining Co. v.
Harris, 198 U.S. 561; Sterrett v. Second National Bank,
248 U.S. 73. The very terms in which the rule is
expressed, howeVer, clearly recognize that where the
receiver has "other authority than that arising from his

62

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

appointment as such," he may under some circumstances
maintain an action outside the state of his appointment.
And so it definitely has been held.
The foreign receiver may maintain such a suit, so far at
least as the federal courts are concerned, where title to the
property in question has been vested in him by conveyance or statute. In Bernheimer v. Converse, 206 U.S. 516,
it was held that a receiver might sue in a foreign jurisdiction to collect upon the statutory liability of stockholders of a corporation, where t&e statute of the state conferred the right upon the receiver as quasi-assignee. Following that decision, this court, in Converse v. Hamilton,
224 U.S. 243, 256 et 8eq., while reiterating the rule laid
down in Booth v. Clark, supra, pointed out that the
receiver suing in the Hamilton case was not merely an
ordinary chancery receiver, but much more; that under
the laws of the state of his appointment he became a
quasi-assignee, vested with the rights of the creditors
against the stockholders, and charged with the enforcement of those rights in the courts of the state and elsewhere; that his right to maintain an action in another
state properly could not be denied as presenting a question only of comity unaffected by the full faith and credit
clause of the Federal Constitution. The case involved the
right of a receiver of an insolvent Minnesota corporation
to maintain a suit in Wisconsin against two stockholders
to enforce an asserted double liability imposed by the
Minnesota statute. The Wisconsin court refused to entertain the suit, holding it to be a matter of comity, but this
court, denying that view, reversed on the ground that
thereby the laws of Minnesota and the judicial proceedings of that state had not been accorded the faith and
credit to which they were entitled under the Federal
Constitution.
In the case just dealt with, and in other cases where the
receivership property has been assigned to the receiver by

OAKES v. LAKE.
59

Opinion of the Court.

its owner, the suit is brought not strictly in his capacity
as receiver, by virtue of his appointment in another state,
but in his capacity as assignee. High, Receivers, 4th ed.,
ยง 244. His designation as receiver, etc., in the title of the
cause may be regarded as descriptio personae merely.
Coming immediately to the present case, the authorities,
federal and state, are in practical accord to the effect that
where the receiver appointed in one state has taken possession of property which thereafter is found and seized
upon process in another state, the receiver may maintain
an action in the latter state to recover possession or for
other appropriate relief. The Willamette Valley, 66 Fed.
565, 567; Hopkins v. Lancaster, 254 Fed. 190, 191-192;
Wilkinson v. Culver, 25 Fed. 639; Jenkins v. Purcell, 29
App.D.C. 209, 215; Lyon v. Russell, 41 App.D.C. 554, 559;
Pond v. Cooke, 45 Conn. 126 132; Robertson v. Staed, 135
Mo. 135, 137; 36 S.W. 610; Woodhull v. Trust Co., 11 N.D.
157, 163-164; 90 N.W. 795; Cagill v. Wooldridge, 67 Tenn.
(8 Baxt.) 580, 582-583, Other cases might be cited to the
same effect. The only decision which we have found
definitely to the contrary is Humphreys v. Hopkins, 81
Cal. 551; 22 Pac. 892, but in which there is a convincing
dissenting opinion in harmony with the general current
of authority.
In some of the cases cited the courts seem to have put
their determination in favor of the receiver upon the
ground of comity. With this view, however, we do not
agree. It is a matter of right, as this court has said.
Converse v. Hamilton, supra. The true rule is stated in
Robertson v. taed, supra, by the supreme court of Missouri, where it was held that where the receiver has taken
possession of property in pursuance of his appointment, a
special property is thereby vested in him which enables
him to maintain a suit for the recovery of the property in
a foreign jurisdiction; and that the principle upon which
that may be done is " one of law and not of comity."

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

2. The other ground upon which respondent asked a
dismissal of the action by the trial court is that an action
of replevin "will not lie in a United States court against
a sheriff to take property from the possession of a state
court." Respondent, in support of that contention, relies
on Freeman v. Howe, 24 How. 450, and later cases decided by this court following that decision. It was held
in the Freeman case that replevin would not lie in a state
court against a United States marshal who held property
seized by him under process issued by a federal court,this, for the reason, as stated in Covell'v. Heyman, 111
U.S. 176, 179, that such property is in the custody of the
law and within the exclusive jurisdiction of the court,
from which the process has issued, for the purposes of
the writ; that to disturb this possession by process from
a state court would be to invade the jurisdiction of the
federal court by whose command it is held'.
We do not stop to consider whether this rule is applicable to the present case, where te property is in the
hands of a sheriff under process issued by a state court,
and the action to recover possession, normally within the
exclusive jurisdiction of the state courts is brought in a
federal court on the sole ground of diversity of citizenship.* We find it unnecessary to do so for the reasons
now to be stated.
The effect of the Idaho so-called claim and delivery
statute is to abolish the common law action of replevin and
substitute therefor the statutory action. Under the statute the action will lie whether immediate possession be demanded or not. If immediate delivery be claimed, an
affidavit must be filed setting forth certain facts, and a
written undertaking in a prescribed form be given. Here
petitioner filed no affidavit or undertaking, nor did he seek
Compare Wise v. Jeferis, 51 Fed. 641; Gilman v. Perkins, 7 Fed.
887; Wood v. Weimar, 104 U.S. 786.

OAKES v. LAKE.
59

Opinion of the Court.

the immediate possession of the property. If, upon the
trial, he proves his case, the form of judgment prescribed
by the statute is for the possession of the property or the
value thereof in case a delivery cannot be had. Bates v.
Capital State Bank, 21 Ida. 141, 149; 121 Pac. 561.
Respondent's position is based upon the view that since
a state court cannot interfere with property held by a
United States marshal under process issued by a federal
court, by parity of reasoning a federal court cannot interfere with property held by a sheriff under process issued
by a state court. Petitioner-making no attempt to distinguish the one case from the other-in terms neither
concedes nor denies this view. "He replies simply that
under the Idaho statute no conflict between the courts is
involved, for, since the sheriff's possession has not been
and need not be disturbed, there is no question of conflict
of possession before the court. He rests his case, in this
respect, upon the provision of the statute allowing judgment for the value of the property where delivery cannot
be had. In this aspect, we put aside the question of
interference with the jurisdiction of the state court as not
being really involved. If, upon a new trial, petitioner and
respondent unite in- the view that a delivery cannot be
had, we perceive no reason why the trial court may not
proceed with the case upon that theory and dispose of it
as one to recover the value of the property and damages;
and we hold accordingly. Should a different situation be
presented, it can be appropriately dealt with when it
arises. That under the Idaho statute the court may thus
dispose of the case when for any reason a delivery cannot
be had, is a proposition which finds abundant support in
the decisions. Boley v. Griswold, 20 Wall. 486; Erreca
v. Meyer, 142 Cal. 308, 310; 75 Pac. 826; Claudius
v. Aguirre, 89 Cal. 501, 504, et seq.; 26 Pac. '1077;
De Thomas v. Witherby, 61 Cal. 92, 97; Donovan v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Syllabus.

290 U.S.

Aetna Indemnity Co., 10 Cal. App. 723, 727-729; 103 Pac.
365.
In Porter v. Davidson, 62 Fed. 626, 629, a similar cone.1,sion was reached under a North Carolina statute.
That court, after stating the rule laid down in Freemanv.
Howe, supra, Covell v. Heyman, supra, and other cases,
held that these decisions went only to the possession of
the res, and that the remedy might be pursued against
the sheriff for damages in any court. "The proceedings
of the plaintiff in this case by which he took from the possession of the sheriff the chattels levied on was ancillary,
not in any way affecting the merits of the original case.
That can go on without conflicting with any of the cases
quoted above."
The court of appeals did not consider the question
whether petitioner had made out a case of actual posses,ion in Oregon. Nor can we say from the very general
words of the judge in granting respondent's motion and'
in discharging the jury that this precise question of fact
was passed upon by the trial court. We, therefore, do
not consider it, but leave it to be disposed of in
the further proceedings which must be had in the district court.
Judgments reversed and cause remanded to the district
court for further proceedings in conformity with this
opinion.

Reversed.

FIDELITY & DEPOSIT CO. OF MARYLAND v.
ARENZ.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 1. Argued October 10, 1933.-Decided November 6, 1933.
1. By means of materially false written statements in respect to his
financial condition, a contractor induced a surety company to
execute a surety bond conditioned on his performance of a state

