OCTOBER TERM, 1933.

576

Opinion of the Court.

290 U.

suggestion that, if appellants had sought modification of
the tolerances complained of, their application would not
have been fairly considered. or that they would have been
denied relief to which they were entitled.
Affirmed.

MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILROAD CO. v. HARTLEY
BROTHERS.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF OKLAHOMA.

No. 200.

Argued December 14, 1933.-Decided January 8, 1934.

Under § 20 of the first Cummins Amendment, 49 U.S.C., § 20
(11), an action against a carrier for damage to an interstate shipment, due to negligence in loading or unloading or in transit, need
not be preceded by notice or filing of the claim, and any provision
of the contract requiring such notice or filing as a condition
precedent, would be void. P. 578.
162 Okla. 194; 19 P. (2d) 337, affirmed.

CERTIORARI* to review the aflirmance of a judgment
against the Railroad Company in an action by a shipper
for damage to a consignment of cattle.
Mr. Wm.'L. Curtis argued the cause, and Messrs. Edward J. White and Thomas B. Pryor filed a brief, for
petitioner.
*Mr. H. D. Moreland argued the cause, and Mr. G. C.
Spillers filed a brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Respondents brought this action in the district court
of Rogers county to enforce a claim for damages against
the railroad company. May 4, 1927, they shipped seven
carloads of cattle from stations in Arkansas to themselves
at Delaware, Oklahoma. They delivered five loads
*

See Table of Cases Reported in this volume.

MO. PAC. R. CO. v. HARTLEY BROS.
576

577

Opinion of the Court.

directly to defendant and the other loads to connecting
carriers that delivered them to defendant. It hauled all
from Little Rock to destination. The shipments moved
under uniform livestock contracts 1 issued by the initial
carriers. They contain the following clauses:
"Section 2. (c) Claims for loss, damage, or injury to
live stock must be made in writing to the originating or
delivering carrier or carriers issuing this bill of lading
within six months after the delivery of the live stock . . .
provided, that if such loss, damage or injury was due to
delay or damage while being loaded or unloaded, or damaged in transit by carelessness or negligence, then no
notice of claim nor filing of claim shall be required as a
condition precedent to recovery ...
"Section 4. (c) Before the live stock is removed from
the possession of the carrier or mingled with other live
stock the shipper, owner, consignee or agent thereof shall
inform in writing the delivering carrier of any visible or
manifest injury to the live stock."
Plaintiffs did not sue until after the expiration of the
time specified in the contract for notice or filing of claim;
and they did not, before suit, give notice of or make any
claim against defendant or any of the carriers for the loss
or damage sued for, § 2 (c), or give defendant the information specified in § 4 (c). Their petition alleges that
some of the cattle were killed and others injured by
defendant's negligence in handling the cars in which the
shipments moved over its line. The answer denied negligence and alleged that plaintiffs had not complied with
the quoted contract provisions. The jury returned a
verdict for plaintiffs and the trial court gave them judg-

'Prescribed by Domestic Bill of Lading and Live Stock Contract,
64 I.C.C. 357, October 21, 1921, before our decision, April 13, 1925, in
Barrett v. Van Pelt, 268 U.S. 85. See Missouri Pacific R. Co. v.
Porter, 273 U.S. 341, 343, et seq. Louis Ilfeld Co. v. Southern Pac.
Co., 48 F. (2d) 1056, 1057.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

ment thereon. The supreme court affirmed. 162 Okla.
194; 19 P. (2d) 337.
The first Cummins amendment to § 20 of the Act to
Regulate Com.nerce,/49 U.S.C., § 20 (11), concerning the
duty of carriers to issue receipts or bills of lading for
.interstate freight and theii liability for loss or damage
declares: "That it shall be unlawful for any such common
carrier to provide by rule, contract, regulation, or otherwise a shorter period for giving notice of claims than
ninety days, for the filing of claims than four months, and
for the institution of suits than two years "; and, as here
construed,2 the proviso reads: "That if the loss, damage,
or injury complained of was due to delay ot damage while
being loaded or unloaded or damage in transit by carelessness or negligence, then no notice of claim nor filing of
claim shall be required as a condition precedent to recovery." The phrase "carelessness or negligence" relates to
each case of loss, damage or injury mentioned in the proviso, and in such cases carriers are not permitted to require
notice or filing of claim. Barrett v. Van Pelt, 268 U.S.
85, 87, 91. Chesapeake & 0. Ry. Co. v. Thompson Mfg.
Co., 270 U.S. 416, 422.
Section 2 (c) of the livestock contract includes the language of the proviso and evidently is not intended to
require notice of claim for any loss, damage or injury
caused by the carrier's negligence. Section 4 (c) of the
contract does not purport to make compliance with it a
condition precedent to suit, and we need not decide
whether in any case it could be so read. It does not expressly apply to loss or injuries caused by the carrier's
negligence. If construed to cover such cases, the section
would conflict with the proviso of the first Cummins
Amendment.
Affirmed.
'Barrett v. Van Pelt, 268 U.S. 85. Davis v. Roper Lumber Co.,
269 U.S. 158. Chesapeake & 0. Ry. Co. 0v, Thompson Mfg. Co.,
270 U.S. 416.

