OCTOBER TERM, 1933.

106

Syllabus.

290 U.S.

rations of intention, casting light upon the future, have
been sharply distinguished from declarations of memory,
pointing backwards to the past. There would be an end,
or nearly that, to the rule against hearsay if the distinction were ignored.
The testimony now questioned faced backward and not
forward. This at least it did in its most obvious implications. -What is even more important, it spoke to a past
act, and more than that, to an act by some one not the
speaker.. Other tendency, if it had any, was a filament too
fine to be disentangled by a jury.
The judgment should be reversed and the cause remanded to the District Court for further proceedings in
accordance with this opinion.
Reversed.
COOPER, TRUSTEE IN BANKRUPTCY, v.
DASHER.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 30.

Argued October 18, 1933.-Decided November 6, 1933.

A turnover order addressed to the president of a bankrupt corporation who has fraudulently concealed and is withholding the goods,
is not to be held invalid for want of a sufficient description if the
one given, though general, is clear enough to be understood by
him and is as definite as possible under the circumstances. P. 108.
The goods in question were part of the stock in trade of a drug
business. Their cost had been computed by deducting from the
cost of all goods owned by the bankrupt in the life of the business,
the total amount of sales, less gross profits, and the cost value
of the goods that had come to the trusteb or receiver. The
description in the order was as follows: "balance of merchandise
in the hands of the said R. F. Dasher at the time of bankruptcy
at a cost price value of $19,157.66, of a class of merchandise
shown by the proofs of claim to have been purchased on the credit
of the bankrupt corporation and delivered to it, and of such a

COOPER v. DASHER.
106

Opinion of the Court.

class of merchandise as is usually carried and sold in a retail drug
store, but which is not capable of a more specific description, such
more specific description being known only to the respondent in
this cause."
63 F. (2d) 749, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 289 U.S. 720, to review the reversal of an
order for the return of concealed goods, in a bankruptcy
case.

Mr. C. Edmund Worth for petitioner.
Mr. Burton G. Henson, with whom Mr. W. K, Zewadski,
Jr., was on the brief, for respondent.

MR. JusTicE CARDozo delivered the opinion of the
Court.
During the night immediately following the filing of a
bankruptcy petition the president of a bankrupt corporation withdrew the bulk of the merchandise by stealth and
lodged it in hiding places known only to himself. Part
has been retrieved; part is still concealed. The District
Court, confirming the report of a referee, made a turnover
order for the return by the respondent of the property
withheld. On the ground that the order was void for
indefiniteness the Court of Appeals for. the Fifth Circuit
reversed it, except as to a few items no longer contested.
63 F. (2d) 749. A writ of certiorari, sued out by the
trustee.in bankruptcy, brings the case here.
The bankrupt corporation began the business of the
sale of drugs on May 26, 1930, and was thrown into bankruptcy the following February. The respondent, Dasher,
was its president, and he, his wife and his infant son were
the holders of the shares. The cost of all the merchandise
owned by the bankrupt during the life of the business was
$72,551.82; the sales, less the gross profits, were $23,056.01.
There should have been on hand at the bankruptcy mer-

108

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 US.

chandise of the value at cost of $49,495.81. Only $39,754.16 in value has come into the possession of the trustee
or the receiver. Much of this would have been lost to
the creditors if it had not been unearthed from the hidingplaces where it had been concealed by the respondent.
The value at cost of the undelivered residue is nearly
$20,06D0. Of this residue a few items ($583.69) have identifying marks or labels. The propriety of a turnover order
as to these is no longer disputed. There is left an ultimate
residue ($19,157.66 in value) secreted by the respondent
and still withheld from the estate.
The referee, after giving the respondent an opportunity
to account for the disposition of the assets, has ordered
the return of this undelivered residue. The findings describe it as the "balance of merchandise in the hands of
the said R. F. Dasher at the time of bankruptcy at a cost
price value of $19,157.66, of a class of merchandise shown
by the proofs of claim to have been purchased on the
credit of the bankrupt corporation and delivered to it,
and of such a class of merchandise as is usually carried
and sold in a retail drug store, but which is not capable
of a more specific description, such more specific description being known only to the respondent in this cause."
The description in the findings is repeated in the order
with unimportant verbal changes.
The respondent has made away with goods belonging to
the estate and defiantly withholds them. So the referee
has found upon evidence not in the return and hence
presumably sufficient. The process of computation and
inference outlined in his report and leading up to his conclusion has support in many cases. See, e.g., In re H.
Magen Co., 10 F. (2d) 91, 93, 94; In re Chavkin, 249 Fed.
342; In re Stavrahn, 174 Fed. 330; In re Levy & Co., 142
Fed. 442; Sheinman v. Chalmers, 33 F. (2d) 902; In re
Cohan, 41 F. (2d) 632. The abstraction of the merchandise being evidenced by clear and convincing proof, there

COOPER v. DASHER.
106

Opinion of the Court.

is no doubt about the jurisdiction of the court to direct a
summary return. Oriel v. Russell, 278 U.S. 358. The respondent seeks to thwart the exercise of this conceded
jurisdiction by the objection that the merchandise is not
sufficiently described. He says that instead of the general description in the findings and the order there should
be an inventory of items. The drugs, the perfumery, the
surgical appliances and the many miscellaneous articles
that make up the stock in trade of a modern drug store
should be set forth, he insists, in particular schedules.
Only thus, we are told, will the respondent be in a position to understand the mandate to which obedience is due.
Misunderstanding of the mandate is upon the facts in
this record an illusory peril. The order gives the only
description that the nature of the case allows. The respondent, and no one else, is in a position to supply a
better one. The mandate is addressed to him, and to
him its meaning is definite, however indefinite to others.
If it is clear enough to be understood, it is clear enough
to be obeyed. "All evidence," said Lord Mansfield in
Blatch v. Archer, 1 Cowper 63, 65, "is to be weighed according to the proof which it was in the power of one
side to have produced and in the power of the other side
to have contradicted." Kirby v. Tailmadge, 160 U.S. 379,
383. The validity of this order is to be subjected to a
kindred test. Words after all are symbols, and the significance of the symbols varies with the knowledge and experience of the mind receiving them. The certainty of
a description is always a matter of degree. Doherty v.
Hill, 144 Mass. 465; 11 N.E. 581; Marks v. Cowdin,,226
N.Y. 138, 143; 123 N.E. 139. "In every case the words
must be translated into things and facts by parol evidence." Holmes, J., in Doherty v. Hill, supra, p. 468.
How many identifying tokens we are to exact the reason
and common sense of the situation must tell us. There are
times when a restraining order enjoins the commission of

110

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

acts that are not within the peculiar knowledge of the one
to be enjoined. In re Huntley, 85 Fed. 889, 893; cf.
Ketchum v. Edwards, 153 N.Y. 534, 539; 47 N.E. 918. In
that event the requirement of definiteness assumes a new
importance, and failure to give heed to it may even make
the order void. No doubt it is wise, irrespective of the
knowledge of the parties, to make the terms of the order
as definite as possible. The findings of the referee show
that this is what was done. To insist upon more would
be to sacrifice the. substance of the right to the magic of a
formula. - In the ensuing war of words the wrongdoer
would be enabled to slip away from his pursuers and take
advantage of his wrong.
An argument is based upon. embarrassments that may
clog the enforcement of other remedies hereafter. The
respondent, it is said, may refuse to comply with the order
and may be sent to jail till he obeys. If later he repents
and tenders a stock of goods to the trustee, the marshal
will not know whether the tender is complete and will be
unable to determine whether to hold him or to let him go.
See In re Miller & Harbaugh,54 F. (2d) 612,616. Embarrassments such as these, contingent and imaginary, will
be resolved when they develop. The description of the
merchandise might be much more definite than it is without enabling a marshal to identify a stock in trade,
unaided by the advice of those acquainted with the business. Besides, the court is always in reserve, with capacity
to act when the dispute becomes acute. If the respondent
makes a genuine effort to restore the secreted goods, there
will probably be little difficulty in determining whether
the tender is sufficient. At present, the marshal is not
before us praying for instructions, nor is the respondent
yet in jail. We are not to presume that the order will be
flouted. Let the respondent yield obedience to a mandate
intelligible to him, and his liberty is then assured. The

WELCH v. HELVERING.
106

Syllabus.

law will not be overpatient witli his protest that if he
persists in his defiance, he may be caught in his own
snares.
The form of turnover orders in bankruptcy proceedings
has been much considered in the federal courts. It has
provoked a difference of opinion. In accord with the decision of the court below are decisions of the Court of
Appeals for, the ninth circuit and the first. In re Miller
& Harbaugh,54 F. (2d) 612; In re Goldman, 62 F. (2d)
421, one judge dissenting. The contrary view has been
taken in the fourth circuit and the second. Kirsner v.
Taliaferro, 202 Fed. 51; In re H. Magen Co., 10 F. (2d)
91. Many orders not unlike the one in question have
been upheld sub silentio in the absence of objection.
Prela v. Hubshman, 278 U.S. 358; Epstein v. Steinfeld,
210 Fed. 23.6; Sheinman v. Chalmers, 33 F. (2d) 902;
In re Cohan, 41 F. (2d) 632.
The order should be reversed and the cause remanded
to the District Court with instructions to proceed in
accordance with this opinion.
Reversed.
WELCH v. HELVERING, COMMISSIONER OF
INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 33.

Argued October 19, 1933.-Decided November 6, 1933.

1. What are "ordinary and necessary expenses" in carrying on a:
business, within the meaning of provisions of Revenue Acts allowing
deductions of such expenses in computing net income, must be
determined by conduct and forms of speech prevailing in the
business world. P. 113.
2. The Court can not say, in the absence of proof and as a matter of
judicial knowledge, that payments on the debts of a corporation,
made by its former officer after its discharge in bankruptcy and
for the purpose of strengthening his own business standing and
credit, were ordinary and necessary expenses of his business. P. 115.

