VERMONT v. NEW HAMPSHIRE
Decree.

VERMONT v. NEW HAMPSHIRE.
No. 2, original. Decree entered January 8, 1934.
Decree adjudging the boundary between the States of Vermont and
New Hampshire to be the low water mark on the west side of the
Connecticut River and directing that the line be definitely located
and marked on the ground at points which have been agreed upon
in a stipulation of the parties. This work is to be done by a
special commissioner, appointed by the decree and instructed
thereby as to his duties, including the taking, if necessary, and
filing of evidence. Directions are given as to the making, filing
and service of his report, and hearing of objections. The compensation and expenses of the commissioner, as approved by the Court,
with incidental expenses, are to be paid equally by the two States,
as also are the costs of the suit. Either party may apply in the
future for location and marking of additional points, or to have
points relocated and marked "where the boundary has been
affected by erosion or accretion."

This Decree is made pursuant to the opinion reported
in 289 U.S. 593.
PER CURIAM.

This cause, having been submitted upon the pleadings,
proofs and exhibits, and upon the report of the Special
Master; and having been argued by counsel, and this
Court, on May 29, 1933, having rendered its opinion sustaining the findings of the Special Master as to the location
of the true boundary line between the two States, parties
hereto,
IT IS ORDERED, ADJUDGED AND DECREED: First. That
the boundary line between the State of Vermont and the
State of New Hampshire is hereby established as a line
beginning at the apex of the granite monument which
marks the southeast corner of Vermont and the southwest
corner of New Hampshire, erected in 1897 under the supervision of Commissioners of the two States, at low
water mark on the west side of the Connecticut River, and
extending thence northerly along the western side of the

580

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Decree.

290 US.

river at low water mark, as the same is or would be if unaffected by improvements on the river, to the southerly
line of the Town of Pittsburg, New Hampshire. Such
low water mark is hereby defined as the line drawn at the
point to which the river recedes at its lowest stage, without reference to, and unaffected by extreme droughts, but
subject to such changes as may hereafter be effected by
erosion or accretion.
Second. That such boundary line at low water mark
shall forthwith be definitely located and marked on the
ground, as hereinafter provided, at named points on said
boundary line, on the western side of the Connecticut
River, which points have been selected and agreed upon
by stipulation entered into by the parties hereto,
pursuant to order of this Court of October 10, 1933,
as follows:
1. The monument marking the southwest corner of
New Hampshire and southeast corner of Vermont, commonly called the "Mud Turtle" and the BrattleboroDummerston, Vermont town line.
2. The Walpole, New Hampshire-Westminster, Vermont Bridge.
3. The Westminster-Rockingham Vermont town line
and a point one hundred (100) feet north of the Cheshire
bridge (Charlestown, N.H.-Springfield, Vt.).
4. The Claremont-Ascutneyville Bridge (Claremont,
N.H.-Weathersfield, Vt.).
5. The Boston & Maine Railroad Bridge (Cornish,
N.fH.-Windsor, Vt.).
6. The Cornish Toll Bridge (Cornish, N.H.-Windsor,
Vt.).
7. A point five hundred (500) feet south of the Sumner's or Water Quechee Falls Canal (Plainfield, N.H.Hartland, Vt.) and a point five hundred (500) feet north
of said canal.

VERMONT v. NEW HAMPSHIRE.
579

Decree.

8. The Boston & Maine Railroad Bridge (Lebanon,
N.H.-Hartford, Vt.).
9. The Lyman Bridge (Lebanon, N.H.-Hartford, Vt.).
10. A point one thousand (1,000) feet south of the
Wilder Dam (Lebanon, N.H.-Hartford, Vt.) and a point
one thousand (1,000) feet north of the Ledyard Bridge
(Hanover, N.H.-Norwich, Vt.).
11. The Gilbert Bridge (Lyme, N.H.-Thetford, Vt.).
12. The Lyme-Northboro Bridge (Lyme, N.H.-Thet-

ford, Vt.).
13. The Orford Bridge (Orford, N.H.-Fairlee, Vt.).
14. The Piermont Bridge (Piermont, N.H.-Bradford,
Vt.).
15. The Bedell Bridge (Haverhill, N.H.-Newbury, Vt.).
16. The Keyes Steel Highway Bridge (Haverhill, N.H.Newbury, Vt.).
17. A point one hundred (100) feet south of Hales or,
Howard Island (Haverhil, N.H.) and the point of the
"Narrows" (Bath, N.H.-Ryegate, Vt.).
18. A point one thousand (1,000) feet south of the
Ryegate Paper Company's dam (Bath, N.H.-Ryegate,
Vt.), and a point one hundred (100) feet north of the
Moses Blake Ferry (Dalton, N.H.-Lunenburg, Vt.).
19. The South Lancaster Bridge (Lancaster, N.H.-Lunenburg, Vt.).
20. The North Lancaster Bridge (Lancaster, N.H.Guildhall, Vt.).
21. The Maine Central Railroad Bridge (Lancaster,
N.H.-Guildhall, Vt.).
22. A point five hundred (500) feet south of the Wyoming Paper Company or Hall & Richter Paper Company
dam (Northumberland, N.H.-Guildhall, Vt.) and a point
opposite the mouth of the Upper Ammonoosue River
(Northumberland, N.H.).
23. The Stratford Hollow Bridge (Stratford, N.H.Maidstone, Vt.).

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Decree.

290 U.S.

24. The Maine Central Railroad Bridge (Stratford,
N.H.-Brunswick, Vt.), and a point five thousand (5,000)
feet north of Lyman Falls Power Company's dam (Columbia, N.H.-Bloomfield, Vt.).
25. The Columbia Bridge (Columbia, N.H.-Lemington,
Vt.) and a point two thousand (2,000) feet north of said
bridge.
26. The Colebrook Bridge (Colebrook, N.H.-Lemington, Vt.).
27. The Colebrook-Stewartstown, N.H. town line, and
the Canaan, Vt., Pittsburg, N.H. town line.
28. The northeast corner of Vermont.
29. All dams, bridges and ferries.
Third. Samuel S. Gannett, Esq., is hereby appointed
Special Commissioner to locate and mark upon the ground
the boundary line, at the points specified herein, and to,
make record of the point [s] so marked with all convenient
speed. The reasonable compensation and expenses of the
Commissioner, as allowed by this Court, and all other
costs incident to the location and marking of such boundary line and making record thereof as provided herein
shall be paid by the two States, in equal shares.
Fourth. Before entering upon the discharge of his
duties, the Commissioner shall be duly sworn to perform
fairly, impartially, and without prejudice or bias the
duties imposed upon him, said oath to be taken before
the Clerk of this Court, or before the Clerk of the District
Court of the United States for the District of the said
Commissioner's residence, or for the District of New
Hampshire, or for the District of Vermont, and returned
with his report. The Commissioner is authorized to adopt
all usual and reasonable methods to ascertain the true
location of the said boundary line, including reference
to the record, transcript and evidence in this cause, and
the taking of new evidence, oral or documentary, under
oath; but in the event new evidence is taken the parties

VERMONT v. NEW HAMPSHIRE.
579

Decree.

shall be notified and permitted to be present nd crossexamine the witnesses; and all evidence taken by the
Commissioner, and all exceptions thereto, and action
thereon, shall be preserved and certified and returned
with his report. The Conmissioner shall mark the points
upon the boundary line as designated herein with permanent monuments, erected by him or under his direction,
and wherever he shall deem it necessary or desirable to
do so such monuments may be established upon the fast
upland and shall be suitably inscribed to indicate by distances and courses therefrom the point on the boundary
line as it is fixed at the time of the erection of such monument. He shall, upon completion of the location and
marking of such points on the boundary line, report to
this Court, describing the several monuments established,
and their location and their distances and courses to the
boundary, and his determinations shall be subject in all
respects to the approval of this Court. A copy of his
report shall be promptly delivered to the Clerk of this
Court and to the Attorneys General of the two States, and
exceptions or objections, if any, to such report shall be
presented to this Court, or, if it is not in session, filed
with the Clerk within forty (40) days after the delivery
of such report. On approval by this Court of such report,
the Commissioner shall be discharged.
Fifth. In the event that either State shall hereafter desire additional points on the boundary line to be located
and marked, or any points to be relocated and remarked
where the boundary has been affected by erosion or accretion, this Court will, upon application, appoint a Commissioner for the purpose.
Sixth. The State of Vermont, its officers, agents and
representatives, its citizens, and all other persons, are perpetually enjoined from disputing the -sovereignty, jurisdiction and dominion of New Hampshire over the territory adjudged to her by this decree; and the State of New

584

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Decree.

290 U.S.

Hampshire, its officers, agents and representatives, its
citizens, and all other persons, are perpetually enjoined
from disputing the sovereignty, jurisdiction and dominion
of Vermont over the territory adjudged to her by this
decree.
Seventh. The costs of this suit will be equally divided
between the States, and this case is retained on the docket
for further orders, in fulfillment of the provisions of this
decree.

