484

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Syllabus.

290 US.

ALEXANDER, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE, v. COS6EN PIPE LINE CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
TENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 54. Argued November 10, 13, 1933.-Decided January 8, 1934.
1. When a judgment involving several distinct money claims of the
plaintiff allows some but rejects or reduces others, and the defendant alone seeks review, the plaintiff will not be heard against the
parts that are adverse to him, and the defendant will not be
heard against the parts in his favor. P. 487.
2. In determining a case on certiorari, the Court need not consider
an error set up in the petition for the writ which was expressly
abandoned on the oral argument by counsel for the sole petitioner. P. 488.
3. A bill of exceptions, examined and found to contain all of the
evidence, notwithstanding a concluding stipulation of counsel and
certificate of the judge declaring that it contained all of the evidence "material to the defendant's assignment of errors." P. 488.
4. A statement in a stipulation and certificate that a bill of exceptions contains all of the evidence material to the assignment of
errors, implies that it contains all of the evidence, where one of
the errors assigned is that the evidence was insufficient to support
the judgment. P. 489.
5. Rules relating to the condensation and narration of evidence
should be respected by the bar and by trial judges, and should
be appropriately enforced by appellate courts. P. 490.
6. Failure to comply with a rule of the Circuit Court of Appeals
requiring condensation and narration of evidence in bills of exceptions, held not a sufficient ground for rejection of the bill in this
Court in the particular circumstances; where the infraction was
not of much moment and where the party objecting to the bill
had consented to its allowance by the District Judge, and the Court
of Appeals had considered and acted upon the bill without criticising it. P. 491.
7. In determining whether special findings of fact made in a trial to.
the District Court support the judgment rendered an them, a
finding not based on sufficient evidence is put aside. P. 494.
8. A taxing Act should be construed reasonably, with recourse to all
of its provisions to ascertain its intent. P. 496.

ALEXANDER v. COSDEN CO.

485

Opinion of the Court.

484

9. The Revenue Acts of 1917 and 1918, in imposing an excise tax on
the transportation of oil by pipe-line, equivalent to a designated
per centum "of the amount paid therefor," show by the context
an intention to tax all transportation of oil by pipe-line, whether
the pipe-line be a common or a private carrier, and whether the
oil it transports belong to itself or to others, and to lay the tax
equally on all such transportation, and to measure it by the customary rate if the anount collected by the carrier is below what
would be reasonably appropriate to the service rendered. P. 495.
10. The services in this case were for "gathering" the oil; the taxes
should have been computed on the appropriate charge for gathering only; the inclusion in the Commissioner's computation of an
additional amount for trunk-line services was erroneous. P. 498.
63 F. (2d) 663, reversed.
CERTioRA * to review a judgment in part affirming
and in part disapproving and modifying a judgment

recovered by the Pipe Line Company from the collector.
The action was for money erroneously collected as taxes.
There were several distinct claims or causes of action.
By stipulation it was tried without a jury.

Solicitor General Biggs, with whom Messrs. J. Louis
Monarch and F. Edward Mitchell were on the brief, for
petitioner.
Mr. Richard H. Wills, with whom Mr. James C. Denton
was on the brief, for respondent.

MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of
the Court.
This was an action at law brought in the District Court
for the Western District of Oklahoma to recover from the
defendant moneys alleged to have been wrongfully exacted
by him, as collector of internal revenue, from the plaintiff as excise taxes on the transportation of crude oil
through the latter's pipe line.
*

See Table of Cases Reported in this volume.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

Apart from matters eliminated during the pendency of
the suit, four distinct claims were asserted. The first
related to the transportation of 2,022,248.41 barrels for
Cosden and Company between November 1, 1917, and
March 31, 1919, whereon an additional assessment of
$15,066.87 was made and collected. The second related
to the transportation of 20,644,020.34 barrels for the same
company between April 1, 1919, and March 31, 1921,
whereon an additional assessment of $170,946.04 was
made and collcted--of which sum a refund of $5,793.76
was made pending the suit, thereby reducing the claim
to $165,152.28. The third related to the transportation
of 3,666,048.39 barrels for the same company between
July 1, 1918, and March 31, 1919, whereon an assessment
of $36,666.50 was made and collected. The fourth related
to the transportation of 99,590.31 barrels for the Pierce
Oil Corporation between November 1, 1917, and March
31, 1919, whereon an assessment of $995.90 was made and
collected.
The issues were tried under a written stipulation waiving a jury, and the court made special findings of fact
and declarations of law whereon it rendered a judgment
awarding the plaintiff the full amount of each of the
first two claims, $18,333.25 on the third, and $746.92 on
the fourth-with interest on each of these sums.
The defendant appealed to the Circuit Court of Appeals, which sustained the awards on the first and second
claims, wholly rejected the third, reduced the award on the
fourth $375.71, and accorded the plaintiff a limited time
within which to file a remittitur of the amount awarded
on the third claim and of $375.71 of that awarded on the
fourth. The remittitur was seasonably filed and thereupon the Court of Appeals affirmed the judgment of the
trial court as modified and reduced by the remittitur. 63

F. (2d) 663.
The case is here on certiorari.

ALEXANDER v. COSDEN CO.
484

Opinion of the Court.

The discussion in the briefs makes it advisable to point
out at the outset that we have no occasion to reexamine
the third and fourth claims. In the District Court each of
these claims was allowed in part and rejected in part.
The defendant alone appealed. In the Court of Appeals
the third claim was rejected and the award on the fourth
reduced. The defendant alone petitioned for a review
here. In this situation the plaintiff is not entitled to be
heard in opposition to the parts of the decision of the
Court of Appeals which were adverse to it-as were the rejection of the third claim and the reduction of the award
on the fourth-but only in support of the parts which
were in its favor. As to the former it has acquiesced and
become concluded by not seasonably petitioning for a review." And the defendant is not entitled to complain of
the parts of the decision which were in his favor-as were
the rejection. of the third claim and the reduction of the
award on the fourth-but only of such as were adverse to
him 2-as was the refusal wholly to disapprove, or further
to reduce, the award on the fourth claim. It is doubtful
that the defendant's petition for certiorari contains any
'United States v. Hickey, 17 Wall. 9, 13; United States v. Blackfeather, 155 U.S. 180, 186; Chittenden v. Brewster, 2 Wall. 191, 196;
The William Bagaley, 5 Wall. 377; Canal Co. v. Gordon, 6 Wall. 561,
568; The Maria Martin, 12 Wall. 31, 40-41; New Orleans Mail Co.
v. Flanders, 12 Wall. 130, 134-135; Mount Pleasant v. Beckwith,
100 U.S. 514, 527; Clark v. Killian, 103 U.S. 766, 769; Loudon v.
Taxing District, 104 U.S. 771, 774; Hubbard v. Tad, 171 U.S. 474,
494; Bolles v. Outing Co., 175 U.S. 262, 268; Landram v. Jordan.
203 U.S. 56, 62; Peoria & P. U. Ry. Co. v. United States, 263 U.S.
528, 536; United States v. American Ry. Exp. Co., 265 U.S. 425, 435;
Federal Trade Comm'n v. Pacific States Paper Trade Assn., 273 U.S.
52, 66; Charles Warner Co. v. Independent Pier Co., 278 US. 85, 91;
Langnes v. Green, 282 U.S. 531, 538.
'Maryland Insurance Co. v. Woods, 6 Cranch 29, 42; Coming v.
Troy Iron & Nail Factory, 15 How. 451, 464-465; Chittenden v.
Brewster, 2 Wall. 191, 196; Loudon v. Taxing District, 104 U.S.
771, 774.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

real challenge of the ruling of the Court of Appeals on the
fourth claim. But, be this as it may, the Solicitor General, speaking for the defendant, in the argument, at the
bar disclaimed any purpose to ask this Court to reexamine
or disturb that ruling. This disclaimer, made on behalf of
the only party who then had any semblance of right to ask
such a reexamination, eliminated any need for considering
the fourth claim just as a like disclaimer in the petition
for certiorari would have done. For these reasons it
should be understood that the merits of the third and
fourth claims are not here under consideration, but are regarded as settled by the decision of the Court of Appeals.
Another matter bearing on the scope of the present
examination needs attention. The defendant asks that
the evidence be examined in connection with his motion
for judgment thereon which was made and denied in the
trial court, and the plaintiff answers that this cannot be
done because the evidence has not been brought into the
record by a proper bill of exceptions. The objections
which the plaintiff makes to the bill are that it does not
purport to contain all of the evidence but only such as is
material to the defendant's assignment of errors, and that
the evidence, both testimonial and documentary, appearing therein is set out without any attempt at condensation
or narration.
Rule 10 of the Court of Appeals,' like Rule 8 of this
Court,' provides:
"Only so much of the evidence shall be embraced in a
bill of exceptions as may be necessary to present clearly
the questions of law involved in the rulings to which
exceptions are reserved, and such evidence as is embraced
therein shall be set forth in condensed and narrative form,
save as a proper understanding of the questions presented
may require that parts of it be set forth otherwise."
'Caldwell v. United States, 36 F. (2d) 738, 739-740.
'286 U.S. 598.

ALEXANDER v. COSDEN CO.
484

Opinion of the Court.

The bill, after the usual introductory recitals, contains
an agreed statement of particular facts, sets out other
evidence produced by the plaintiff and by the defendant,
each in turn, and then says "This is all the evidence
offered and taken at the trial." Other statements follow
to the effect that later on, but before the finding, the court
admitted an additional and specified item of evidence
to which the parties agreed; that at the close of the evidence the defendant moved for judgment in his favor as
to each of the claims because there was not sufficient evidence to support a finding or judgment against him; and
that the court denied this motion and the defendant reserved an exception. At the end is a stipulation wherein
the parties, through their counsel, agree that the bill contains " all the evidence material to the defendant's assignment of errors" and all exceptions taken in the course
of the trial, and consent that "the same be settled and
filed as the settled bill of exceptions "; and then follows a
ertificate by the trial judge authenticating and allowing
the bill in the same terms that are used in the stipulation.
The reference in the stipulation and certificate to "the
defendant's assignment of errors" is explained by the fact
that during the period given for the preparation and
presentation of the bill the defendant had sought and the
trial judge had allowed an appeal to the Circuit Court of
Appeals; and with his application for the appeal the defendant had presented and filed an assignment of errors
showing the rulings and questions which he intended to
present on the appeal-one of the rulings being the denial
of his motion at the close of the evidence for judgment
thereon in his favor.
A survey of the bill from its beginning-to its end shows,
we think, that it contains all of the evidence. The statement to that effect in the body of the bill is not overcome
or qualified by the statement in the concluding stipulation
and certificate that it contains all that is "material to the

490

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

defendant's assignment of errors." When regard is had to
the circumstances in which the later statement was made
there is no room to doubt that it was intended to be, and
is, as comprehensive as the first. As the defendant's assignment of errors, to which the stipulation and certificate refer, brought in question the sufficiency of the evidence to support the judgment, the conclusion is unavoidable that counsel when entering into the stipulation and
the trial judge when giving the certificate understood that
all the evidence was material to the solution of that question, and that they used the terms appearing in the stipulation and certificate as comprehending, not merely a part
of the evidence, but all of it."
It is true that the evidence is set out without any attempt at condensation or narration; but it is also true
that the plaintiff expressly consented to the allowance of
the bill in this form, and that the Court of Appeals not
only made no criticism of the bill but examined the evidence and rejected the -third claim as without necessary
evidential support.
The evidence is not of large volume. Besides 5 pages
of stipulated facts, it includes 20 pages of testimony given
by three witnesses and 30 pages of documents. Without
doubt much of it could have been condensed and narrated
without in any wise affecting its purport or substance,'
but other parts, particularly some of the documents, are of
such a nature that a literal reproduction well might have
been regarded as essential to a proper understanding of
them.
Of course, the rule relating to condensation and narration should be respected by the bar and by trial judgesT
and should be appropriately enforced by appellate
'See Waldron v. Waldron, 156 U.S. 361, 378.
'See Krauss Bros. Co. v. Mellon, 276 U.S. 386, 390-391.
'Lincoln v. Claflin, 7 Wall. 132, 136-137; Krauss Bros. Co. v.
Mellon, supra.

ALEXANDER v. COSDEN CO.
484

Opinion of the Court.

courts 8 but we are of opinion that in the circumstances
here shown the plaintiff is not in a position where it with
good grace can complain of the form in which the evidence
is set out, and that the infraction of the rule in this
instance is not of such extent or moment as to justify us
in now declining to regard the evidence as brought into
the record by the bill.
We come then to a consideration of the first and second
claims. The errors assigned as to them involve the sufficiency of the evidence to support any judgment against
the defendant and the sufficiency of the special findings
to support the particular judgment rendered thereon.
Most of the pertinent findings have such support in the
evidence that they must be accepted here, but some are
without such support. We shall summarize the facts
found so far as they are pertinent and shall refer to the
evidence where there is need for it. In this way the evidence and findings will both be reflected sufficiently for
present purposes.
The plaintiff, an Oklahoma corporation, owns pipe lines
leading into Tulsa, Oklahoma, from oil fields in that State
and operates its lines in the transportation, intrastate, of
crude oil. All of its stock is owned by Cosden and Company, another Oklahoma corporation, which operates an
oil refinery at Tulsa. While not stated in the findings, the
evidence shows that the two corporations are under substantially the same management, have the same offices,
and in part have the same employes.
The plaintiff is engaged chiefly in carrying oil for Cosden and Company, but it also carries large quantities
for others. It does not hold itself out as a common
'See Newton v. Consolidated Gas Co., 258 U.S. 165, 173-174;
Houston v. Southwestern Bell Tel. Co., 259 U.S. 318, 325; Barber
Asphalt Co. v. Standard Asphalt Co., 275 U.S. 372, 387; Fairbanks,
Morse & Co. v. American Valve & Meter Co., 276 U.S. 305, 308,

et seq.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

carrier, is not required by the State to file or publish rates
or tariffs, and does not file or promulgate either. Common
carrier pipe lipnes operating in the vicinity of the plaintiff's
lines have both trunk lines and gathering lines-and also
tariff stations at which oil is received into the trunk lines.
The plaintiff has no tariff stations and receives oil at any
place along its lines where it can obtain the oil. Its lines
are gathering lines only and comparable only to the gathering lines of the common carriers; and the service which
it renders, as compared with that rendered by the common
carriers, is a gathering service only. While not appearing
in the findings, the stipulated facts included the following:
"Any pipe line reaching from any point where oil is
purchased or produced to the trunk or main line or to
storage tanks at or near the main or trunk line or to tank
farms is called a gathering line, without regard to its size,
the distance, or the amount of oil carried through such line
to the trunk or main pipe line, or to the trunk or main
pipe line storage tanks, or to a tank farm.
"The gathering charge is a sum paid for the service
rendered in moving oil from the point where it is tendered
to or received by the carrier, whether it be the working
tank at the well or the storage tanks in the field, to the
trunk or main line tariff stations, or to a tank farm of the
carrier or to main-line storage tanks. And the rate charged
for such gathering service is a flat rate, being the same by
the same carrier in the same field, whether the distance
traversed by the gathering line be twenty-five yards or
twenty-five miles."
All of the matters recited thus far were true during
the period of the transportation in question.
The oil named in the first and second claims was
owned by Cosden and Company and was transported for
it by the plaintiff in the latter's pipe line-that in the
first claim between November 1, 1917, and March 31,

ALEXANDER v. COSDEN CO.
484

Opinion of the Court.

1919, and that in the second between April 1, 1919, and
March 31, 1921.
The plaintiff charged and Cosden and Company paid
5 cents per barrel for the transportation in the first claim
and 10 cents per barrel for that in the second; and the
plaintiff collected from Cosden and Company and paid
over to the revenue collector an excise tax on such transportation computed at the statutory rate on the amounts
so charged and paid.
The Commissioner of Internal Revenue found and
ruled that 20 cents per barrel was the proper charge on
which to base and compute the excise tax, and he accordingly made the additional assessments involved in the
two claims. The plaintiff paid these assessments to the
defendant collector, applied unsuccessfully for a refund
and then brought this suit.
While there is no finding on the point, the evidence
shows that the commissioner in holding 20 cents the
proper charge on which to base and compute the tax
proceeded on the theory that the transportation included
both a gathering and a trunk line service, and determined
that 12/2 cents was the proper charge for the former and
7/2 cents for the latter.
The usual and customary charge of common carrier
pipe lines in that vicinity for gathering service was from
12 to 121/2 cents per barrel from November 1, 1917, to
December 31, 1921.
The plaintiff's charge to Cosden and Company during
that period varied. From a date several months earlier
than November 17 1917, to July 1, 1918, the charge was
5 cents per barrel; from July 1, 1918, to March 31, 1919,
no charge was made, although large quantities of oil were
then being carried by the plaintiff for that company; and
thereafter the charge was 10 cents. Its charges to others
also varied. From November 1, 1917, to December 31,

494

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 US.

1921, they ranged through 7, 10, 12, 15 and 17 cents
per barrel; and their average was 13 cents for the first
five months of that period and 16.4 cents for the rest of
the time-the average being arrived at in each instance
by dividing the total receipts from that transportation
by the total number of barrels included therein.
The plaintiff's "actual costs and expenses of carrying
oil" were 7.8 cents per barrel in 1918, 7.6 cents in 1919,
10.7 cents in 1920, and 8.8 cents in 1921. This finding
is supported by uncontradicted evidence based on a definite computation made after the oil was carried and the
costs and expenses were incurred. Two other findings are
to the effect that the charges for carrying oil for Cosden
and Company were "sufficient to take care of the actual
costs and exifenses" of that service. But these findings
must be put aside. They rest entirely on a statement by
one of the witnesses that the charges were fixed periodically by estimating in advance "what the expenses of
operating the pipe line would be" and "how much oil
would be pumped into the pipe lite," and are inconsistent
with uncontradicted evidence showing the amount of oil
carried and the actual costs and expenses as definitely
computed after the transportation was completed.
The trial court concluded as matter of law that where
the plaintiff made and collected a charge for carrying
oil that charge became, under the applicable statutes, the
sole and exclusive basis for the collection of the transportation tax. It therefore held the additional assessments in the first and second claims wholly invalid and
gave the plaintiff an award for all that had been exacted
from it under those assessments. The Court of Appeals
sustained that ruling.
The applicable statutes are §§ 500, 501 and 503, of the
Revenue Act of 1917 9 which was controlling at the time
9 C.63, 40 Stat. 300, 314.

ALEXANDER v. COSDEN CO.
484

495

Opinion of the Court.

of the transportation in the first claim, and §§ 500-502
of the Revenue Act of 19180"which was controlling at
the time of the transportation in the second claim.
The Act of 1917, in § 500 (d) imposed on the "transportation of oil by pipe line" a tax "equivalent to five
per centum of the amount paid" therefor; in the first
paragraph of § 501, declared the tax should be paid by
the person "paying for" the transportation; and in § 503
laid on the carrier a duty to collect the tax from the person paying for the transportation, to make informative
monthly returns under oath, and to pay to the collector
of internal revenue all taxes so collected by it and "the
taxes imposed upon it" under the second paragraph of
§ 501, which declared:
"In case such carrier does not, because of its ownership of the commodity transported, or for any other reason, receive the amount which as a carrier it would
otherwise charge, such carrier shall pay a tax equivalent
to the tax which would be imposed upon the transportation of such commodity if the carrier, received payment
for such transportation: Provided, That in case of a carrier which on May first, nineteen hundred and seventeen,
had no rates or tariffs on file with the proper Federal or
State authority, the tax shall be computed on the basis
of the rates or tariffs of other carriers for like services as
ascertained aiid determined by the Commissioner of
Internal Revenue."
The Act of 1918, in its §§ 500 (e), 501 (a) and 502,
renancted these provisions, save that it increased the tax
to eight per centum and substituted for the second paragraph of § 501 the following:
"Sec. 501 (d). The tax imposed by subdivision (e) of
section 500 shall apply to all transportation of oil by
pipe line. In case no charge for transportation is made,
OC. 18, 40 Stat. 1057, 1101.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 US.

by reason of ownership of the commodity transported, or
for any other reason, the person transporting by pipe line
shall pay a tax equivalent to the tax which would be imposed if such person received payment for such transportation, and.if the tax can not be computed from actual
bona fide rates or tariffs, it shall be computed (1) on the
basis of the rates or tariffs of other pipe lines for like
services, as determined by the Commissioner, or (2) if
no such rates or tariffs exist, on the basis of a reasonable
charge for such transportation, as determined by the
Commissioner."
We cannot assent to the construction which the courts
below placed on these statutes. It must be conceded that
the statutes are not happily phrased and that some of their
provisions separately considered give color to that construction. But the statutes are to be considered, each in
its entirety and not as if each of its provisions was independent and unaffected by the others. Although imposing a tax, they are to be construed reasonably and the
intent and purpose of each is to be ascertained by examining all of its provisions.
From such an examination we are of opinion that both
statutes disclose-that of 1917 by plain implication and
that of 1918 by express declaration-an intent and purpose to impose the tax on all "transportation" of oil by
pipe line-whether the pipe line be a common carrier or a
private carrier, and whether it be transporting its own oil
or that of others. The revenue bureau has so construed
them 1' and that construction has received judicial approval.
"Treasury Regulations 49, Art. 92, as amended by T.D. 3197 of
July 18, 1921; Commissioner's Instructions September 6, 1921.
"Meischke-Smith v. Wardell, 286 Fed. 785; Motter v. Derby Oil
Co., 16 F. (2d) 717; Dixie Oil Co. v. United States, 24 F. (2d) 804;
Alexander v. Carter Oil Co., 53 F. (2d) 964; Standard Oil Co. v.
McLaughlin, 67 F. (2d) 111.

ALEXANDER v. COSDEN CO.
484

Opinion of the Court.

Plainly both statutes disclose an intent and purpose to
lay the tax equally on all transportation of oil by pipe line
and to prevent exceptional rilations or conditions from
effecting a departure from that standard. In the main
both proceed on the assumption that usually carriers will
charge and shippers pay the customary commercial rate
for the transportation, and therefore that the amount
charged and paid will be in most instances a fair basis on
which to compute the tax. But neither statute stops
there. Both recognize that there may be cases where the
carrier, by reason of owning the oil or for other reasons,
does not receive the compensation which it otherwise
would receive; and both provide, although in somewhat
different terms, for using the rates of other carriers for
like services as a basis for computing the tax in such cases.
We do not overlook the clause "if the carrier received
payment for such transportation" in the provision of the
1917 act, nor the clause " in case no charge for transportation is made" in the provision of the 1918 act. But we
think it apparent from each of the acts as a whole that the
words "payment" and "charge" in the quoted clauses
mean a payment and charge reasonably appropriate for
the service rendered. The provisions in which those
words are found" distinctly reflect the sense in which the
words are used, for they make the rates of other carriers
for. like services--in short, the commercial rates in that
vicinity-an alternative or substitute basis for computing
the tax. Obviously the provisions do not mean that a
merely nominal payment or charge will avoid the tax,
for this would render them absurd; and if that be not
their meaning we perceive no meaning other than that
before stated which reasonably can be attributed to them.
It is said that the Commissioner of Internal Revenue
has construed the provisions last considered as not including instances where there is an actual payment, even
though it be much below the customary charge, and we

498

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

are asked to give effect to that construction. In this the
fact is overlooked that it was the Commissioner who made
the additional assessments'now in question and refused
the application for a refund. But it does appear that
while this suit has been pending the Commissioner in
several instances has allowed applications for a refund
on the basis of the construction now asserted. Of that
construction it suffices to say that it has been neither
uniform nor of long standing, and that in these circumstances we would not be justified in yielding to it.
When the statutes as we construe them are applied to
the evidence and the special findings, it is plain that the
defendant's motion for judgment in his favor on the evidence is not well taken as to the first and second claims,
and that his objection that the special findings do not
as to them support the judgment rendered against him
is well taken. Under the evidence, and also the findings,
the transportation involved in these claims was a gathering service, and the proper charge therefor on which to
base the tax was 121/2 cents per barrel. The charges of
5 and 10 cents per barrel actually collected by the plaintiff
were not appropriate for the service rendered. The plaintiff had been varying its charges without regard to the
cost of the service or purpose to make the same charge
to one patron as to another, and had no fixed rate that
was appropriate. It therefore was necessary to resort to
the accustomed rate of other carriers in the same field as
a basis for the tax. Their accustomed rate for gathering
service was 12 cents per barrel. The additional assessments were made on a basis of 20 cents per barrel, and to
the extent that they rested on the difference between a
rate of 121/ cents and a rate of 20 cents they were excessive and invalid. As the plaintiff had paid the excess
it was entitled to recover it, but the recovery should not
have included what was attributable to the gathering
charge of 121/2 cents per barrel.

N.W. PACIFIC R. CO. v. BOBO.
484

Syllabus.

The judgments of both courts must be reversed as to
the first and second claims and the cause remanded to the
District Court with directions to render judgment on the
findings as to these claims in conformity with the views
expressed in this opinion and to respect the decision of the
Circuit Court of Appeals on the third and fourth claims
and the remittitur given thereunder.

Judgments reversed.
NORTHWESTERN

PACIFIC RAILROAD

CO.

v.

BOBO, ADMINISTRATRIX.
CERTIORARI TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF APPEAL OF CALIFORNIA, FIRST APPELLATE DISTRICT, DIVISION ONE.

No. 163.

Submitted December 12, 1933.-Decided January 8, 1934.

Decedent had for six months been employed by a railroad to operate
the draw and work the signals of its draw-bridge over a stream.
His decomposed body was found in the water two weeks from the
night on which he last worked and was last seen alive, but the
cause of death could nof be learned by examination of the corpse.
There was evidence tending to show that iron steps, on the outside
of the bridge, which he was obliged to use in going to and from
an engine house high above the track, and an iron platform at their
base, were inadequately guarded, were worn smooth and, when
moisture accumulated, were slippery, and that, a few hours after
his disappearance, small pieces of wool, possibly from the sheepskin
collar of his coat, and a little spot that looked like blood, were
found on the edge of the platform. The proofs also showed that he
had long used the stairway and platform with ample opportunity
to learn of their defects by good lantern light and early daylight;
and.there was no suggestion of any complaint having been made
to the railroad. Held:
1. There was nothing to show that, if the railroad was negligent
in respect of the 'stairway and platform, the negligence was the
proximate cause of the death. P. 503.
2. Proof of negligence alone does not entitle the plaintiff to
recover under the Employers' Liability Act. The negligence must
cause the injury. If on the evidence the cause is a .matter of

