504

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Syllabus

290 U.S.

We think the record discloses enough to show that the
decedent assumed any alleged risk. Seaboard Air Line Ry.
Co. v. Horton, 233 U.S. 492; New Orleans & N. E. R. Co.
v. Harris,247 U. S. 367, 371; Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co.
v. Kuhn, 284 U.S. 44, 46, 47.
Reversed.
FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF CINCINNATI
FLERSHEM ET AL.*

ET AL. V.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

Nos. 62 and 63. Argued November 9, 10, 1933.-Decided
January 8, 1934.
A corporation, having suffered great losses but still highly solvent,
determined to scale down its debenture indebtedness. By its directors, it defaulted on the debenture interest, though fully able to
pay, and arranged the formation of a committee which solicited and
secured the deposit of 95% of the debentures, to be exchanged, pursuant to a proposed Plan of Reorganization, for debentures greatly
reduced in amount and security in a transferee corporation to be
formed. Minority debenture holders having brought suit to collect
their interest and threatened to levy on corporate assets, the Committee brought this creditors' bill for the appointment of a receiver,
to the allegations and prayer of which the defendant corporation
assented. An order of sale of the assets was made, fixing an upset
price based on so-called "scrap" value. The purchasers at the
sale transferred the corporate assets to the newly formed corporation, and on the joint petition of the purchasers and the new corporation the Plan of Reorganization was found fair and the sale
confirmed. Held:
1. That assuming that there was equity jurisdiction, there was
no equity in the bill to support the appointment of a receiver or
the interference with and discharge of creditors' rights. P. 515.
Together with No. 64, Arzt et al. v. Flershem et al., and No. 65,
Clapier v. Flershem et al., certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Third Circuit.

FIRST NAT: BANK v. FLERSHEM.
504

505

Syllabus.

2. That where a corporation is solvent, the fact that there have
been and may continue to be heavy losses which may result in
financial embarrassment in the future affords no basis for a
receivership. P. 516.
3. The judicial sale effecting the transfer of all the corporate
property to the new corporation and relieving both the old and
the new corporation from the payment of the former's debts, all
for the purpose of consummating the Plan of Reorganization, was,
as to non-assenting creditors, a fraudulent conveyance. P. 518.
4. The fact that the trustee for the debenture holders, after the
filing of the bill, and at the behest of the plaintiffs, declared the
entire principal due and secured judgment therefor, thus creating
a condition of insolvency, did not cure the lack of equity in the
bill when filed. Pusey & Jones Co. v. Hanssen, 261 U.S. 491.
P. 519.
5. Non-assenting debenture holders, who were prevented by the
order appointing receivers from asserting their rights at law, are
entitled to prove their claims in the equity suit and to be paid
in full, either out of the funds in the receivers' hands, or by levy
on the corporate property; it appearing that the assets fraudulently- conveyed far exceeded the claims of all non-assenting creditors. P. 520.
6. If the right of these debenture holders to sue at law was impaired by the action of the trustee in declaring the principal due
and securing judgment therefor, equity will grant relief, because
that action, as to them, was fraudulent in law. P. 520.
7. The debenture holders who, by assenting to the Plan, coperated with the corporation and the committee, are in no position
to complain that those who did not assent will fare better than
they. P. 521.
8. A bill of review will not lie to review the interlocutory
order appointing receivers. P. 522.
9. A non-assenting debenture holder, who by bill in the nature
of a bill of review attacked the receivership for want of jurisdiction and prayed that it be vacated, was entitled to have that bill
dismissed without prejudice and to prosecute the claim by intervention. P. 522.
10. Debenture holders, and other creditors, who intervened, in
subordination to the main proceeding but without assent to the
Plan of Reorganization, and objected to confirmation of the sale,

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Statement of the Case.

290 U.S.

are entitled to that sum in cash which they would have received
if the property had been sold at a proper price. Pp. 523, 526.
11. In receivership proceedings, as was held in National Surety
Co. v. Coriell, 289 U.S. 426, 436, every important determination by
the court calls for an informed, independent judgment; and special
reasons exist for requiring adequate, trustworthy information
where the jurisdiction rests wholly upon the consent of the defendant who joins in the prayers for relief. P. 525.
12. Failure of dissenting creditors to produce evidence of the
value of the property, did not justify its sale, as an entirety.
P. 525.
13. The upset price for the corporate property as an entirety
and the sale price which was paid on behalf of the Committee, was
based on its so-called "scrap" value, the assumption being that
the dissenting debenture holders for whose protection the price was
supposed to be fixed were, by opposing the reorganization, insisting that all the properties, consisting of separate and widely scattered manufacturing plants, be dismantled. The inadequacy of
the price was due to the mistaken belief that it was the duty of
the court to aid in effectuating the Plan of Reorganization, since
a very large majority of the debenture holders had consented to it.
Pp. 523-525.
14. A manufacturing company composed of separate plants
capable of independent operation need not, as may be necessary
with a railroad, be sold as an entirety; and in determining the
proper price the court should acquire information not only as to
the value of each parcel but as to the possibility of reconstituting
one or more of the separate plants as independent operating units
and finding mark'ets for them; in making the determination it is
proper to take into account the willingness of the Reorganization
Committee to purchase the properties as a going concern. P. 526
et seq.

15. The Plan of Reorganization, in providing, that debts for
merchandise and services shall be paid in full by the new corporation, does not include debts owing by the old company on a purchase of shares in another corporation; and it can not be amended
by the court, in this proceeding, to include them. P, 529.
64 F. (2d) 847, reversed as to Nos. 62, 63 and 64, and affirmed, with
modification, as to No. 65.
CERTIORARI, 289 U.S. 722, to review the affirmance of
decrees in a receivership case.

FIRST NAT. BANK v. FLERSHEM.
504

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Ralph Royall, with whom Mr. Sidney J. Watts
was on the brief, for First National Bank, petitioner in
Nos. 62 and 63. Mr. James F. Hubbell for International
Heater Co., petitioner in Nos. 62 and 63. Mr. David M.
Palley, with whom Messrs. Charles H. Sachs and Louis
Caplan were on the brief, for petitioners in Nos. 64 and 65.
Mr. Lawrence Bennett, ;vith whom Messrs. Maynard
Teall and G. Franklin Ludington were on the brief, for
Flershem et al., respondents in Nos. 62, 63, 64, and 65.
Mr. Grandin Tracy Vought for Bankers Trust Co.,
Trustee, respondent in Nos. 62, 63, and 64.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
These cases, which are here on certiorari to the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit (289 U.S. 722),
were argued together. They arise out of the Plan of Reorganization of the National Radiator Corporation of Delaware dated February 11, 1931. The Reorganization Committee sought to effectuate its Plan through securing, in a
suit filed in the western district of Pennsylvania, the appointment of receivers and a judicial sale of the property. In that suit the federal jurisdiction was invoked
on the ground of diversity of citizenship; the original
plaintiffs being citizens of states other than Delaware and
one of them a citizen of the district in which the suit was
brought. The Corporation, a citizen of Delaware, was the
sole defendant. The District Court appointed receivers,
and entered decrees ordering the sale, confirming it, approving the Plan, and directing the receivers to convey
and deliver to the purchaser the entire property. The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the decrees. 64 F. (2d)
847. The petitioners in No. 64 urge that the final decrees
should be reversed as to them on the ground that the court
lacked equity jurisdiction or that the bill lacked equity.

508

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

The petitioners in numbers 62 and 63 urge' that the decrees
should be reversed as to them mainly because the property was sold at a grossly inadequate price. The petitioner in No. 65 is the plaintiff in a bill of review, brought
in the same court, praying that the order appointing receivers be vacated. Its dismissal, which was affirmed on
appeal, is alleged to have beert erroneous.
In August, 1927, National Radiator Corporation was
organized to effect a merger of six independent manufacturers of radiators and boilers for heating purposes.
The net assets of the consolidated corporation, which included ten manufacturing plants located in five states and
warehouses in four others, were valued at $26,192,261.72.
The capital was represented by 270,000 shares of no-par
common stock; 60,000 shares of $7 cumulative convertible no-par preferred stock; ana $12,000,000 twenty-year
62 per cent sinking fund 'gold debentures. These had
been underwritten, and were marketed, by J. &. W. Seligman & Co. and Bankers Trust Company of New York.
The terms governing the issue of the debentures and the
rights and remedies of the holders thereof were fixed by
an indenture between the Corporation and the Bankers
Trust Company, as trustee.
In January 1931, the management of the Corporation
concluded, after months of consideration and conf rence
with the bankers, that a revision of its capital structure
was desirable in order to effect a drastic reduction of the
debenture liability and the elimination of all fixed
charges; and that, to this end, default should be made in
the payment of the February 1, 1931 interest on the debentures. Before the merger, the constituent concerns
had operated successfully for many years. After the
merger the business ceased to prosper. By the end of
1931, all but three of the ten manufacturing plants had
been closed; the outlook for the immediate future was

FIRST NAT. BANK v. FLERSHEM.
504

Opinion of the Court.

obscure; and there was no definite promise of an early
recovery in earning power.'
A meeting of the Board of Directors was called for the
purpose of taking formal action in respect to the payment
of the February 1, 1931 interest. Although the Corporation had suffered (including depreciation and sinking fund
charges) large losses in each of the years 1928, 1929 and
1930, its financial condition was still excellent. On December 31, 1930, the ratio of current assets to all current
liabilities was more than 10 to 1; the current assets, including raw material and stock in process and manufactured, being $5,054,007.30. The ratio of cash on hand to
all current'liabilities was then 31/2 to 1. It had $1,701,899.94 cash and $1,132,563.17 in good accounts receivable; whereas its debts presently payable were only
$46,787.60 (besides $293,339.58 for semi-annual interest
accrued on the debentures but not payable until February 1, 1931, $151,768.54 of accrued taxes and like items,
and $60,000 in notes payable in one, two and three years).
The twenty-year debentures outstanding had been reduced from $12,000,000 to $10,716,000.2
After presenting to the Board the December 31, 1930,
financial statement, the Chairman said:
"That, although the working capital of the Company
as shown by the balance sheet was reasonably ample, it
1

The Corporation acquired by the merger ten plants. Two at
Johnstown, Pa.; two at-New Castle, Pa.; one at Framingham, Mass.;
one at Trenton, NJ.; one at Chicago, Ill.; and one each at Utica,
Dunkirk, and North Tonawanda, N.Y. One plant had been sold in
1927 and one was shut down. Two were closed early in 1929. In
1930 one plant was shut down because of the decline in business, and
one in 1931 before the receivers were appointed.
'On December 30, 1931, at which time Bankers Trust Company,
trustee for the debenture holders, recovered judgment for the entire
principal outstanding, the amount had been further reduced to

$10,673,000.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

was evident that, if the Company were to do an increasing
volume of business, it would require the use of all or a
substantial part of this cash to carry larger inventories
and receivables, and that it would also be necessary to
make large expenditures for the design of new products
and for equipment necessary in their manufacture.
Otherwise, the Chairman pointed out it might well prove
to be impossible to maintain the Company's competitive
business as against other enterprises in 'the industry. The
Chairman then referred to the fact that the management
had considered the advisability of a reorganization and
had, requested Messrs. Rudolph B. Flershem [the Chairman of its Executive Committee], Charles 0. Cornell [a
member of a firm specializing in reorganizations] and
John H. Waters [the corporation's President] to act as
a Committee to consider the matter and to formulate a
Plan of Reorganization which might be submitted to the
security holders of the Company. The Chairman reported
that this Committee was now considering the matter of
reorganization and had formed the opinion that a reorganization was advisable."
The recommendations of the management were adopted
by the Board of Directors. It was voted to default in
the payment of the February 1 interest; the holders of
the debentures were notified that the default was deemed
advisable in order to conserve the Corporation's cash resources; and, under date of February 11, 1931, an elaborate "Plan and Agreement of Reorganization" was
submitted to the security holders for acceptance.
The Plan did not provide for raising additional capital. It was directed solely to reducing the liability on
the debentures and eliminating all fixed charges. It .provided that a new corporation be organized which would
take over all the assets of the existing one, continue the
business, and pay in cash all the current debts for merchandise and services: that the debenture indebtedness be

FIRST NAT. BANK v. FLERSHEM.
504

Opinion of the Court.

scaled by giving for each $1,000 of the 61/2% twenty-year
sinking fund debentures, $500 of the new corporation's
5% fifteen-year income debentures (without sinking fund
provision),' 5 shares of its $7 preferred stock (entitled to
$100 a share on involuntary liquidation and $115 a share
on voluntary liquidation) and 20 shares of its common
stock. Holders of the preferred stock in the existing company were to receive therefor, share for share, common
stock in the new; and holders of the common stock of the
existing company might (upon payment of $1), receive
for every three shares a stock warrant, entitling the holder
to purchase on or before July 1, 1941, one share of common stock in the new company upon payment of $20 per
share. The Plan made no provision for dissenting
debenture holders.
The Reorganization Committee proceeded to solicit deposits of securities under the Plan. Before September 15,
1931, it had secured the deposit of about 81 per cent. of
the debentures and a large part of the preferred and common stocks. On that day it declared the Plan operative.
On the same day it made a settlement with an opposing
bondholders' protective committee,' whereby it secured
additional deposits of about 9 per cent. of the debentures.
Later, other deposits were received; so that ultimately
more than 95 per cent. of all outstanding debentures were
deposited under the Plan.
Some holders of non-assenting debentures demanded"
payment of their overdue coupons, including those for the
'Moreover, the existing debentures were entitled to be secured by
a prior lien against any subsequent mortgage; the new debentures
were entitled only to an equal lien with any subsequent mortgage.
The Committee later agreed with an opposition committee (see note
4) tha the lien should be prior.
'The opposition committee were to receive $35,000 for fees and
expenses of the members and counsel; and one of its members, to be
designated byy the Reorganization Committee, was to become a member of the latter and of the board of directors of the new company.

512

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

August 1, 1931 interest. When payment was refused, the
holders of $24,000 of the debentures brought an action
therefor; and counsel gave notice of intention to bring a
further action on coupons attached to others. In order
to frustrate these attempts to collect the interest, and in
order to compel the minority debenture holders to ac,quiesce in the Plan of Reorganization, the Committee
commenced, on October 5, 1931, this suit praying for the
appointment of receivers with power to continue the business; for a sale of the properties as an entirety; and that
meanwhile all creditors be enjoined from enforcing their
claims. The bill set forth the existing capital structure,
the defaults in the payment of interest, and the Plan of
Reorganization. It did not allege that the corporation
was unable to pay the interest; or that it was insolvent;
or that its assets while ample were not then available for
payment of its debts. The bill alleged merely that:
"The defendant has no means at hand with which to
meet, pay or satisfy the interest charges on the Debentures overdue as aforesaid without seriously jeopardizing
the ability of the defendant -to continue its business and
without making it difficult or impossible for the defendant
to secure necessary supplies, materials and labor to continue the operation of its plants and the sale of its
products."
" [That] certain holders of the debentures not deposited with the complainants have threatened to bring
suits in respect of interest, due on their coupons and may
levy execution upon the prdperty of the defendant." . . .
" [That] unless this Court will take jurisdiction in this
cause for the protection of every interest in the property
and assets of the defendant, the result will be a multiplicity of suits, a race of diligence, wasteful strife and controversy;" and dismemberment of the properties [and
that] "It is to the best interests of the defendant and the
complainants and other creditors of the defendant that

FIRST NAT. BANK v. FLERSHEM.
504

Opinion of the Court.

the going concern value of the defendant's business and
properties should be maintained," etc.
On October 9, 1931, the Corporation entered its appearance; filed an answer admitting the truth of the
allegations contained in the bill; joined in the prayers
thereof; and consented to the appointment of receivers.
On the same day receivers were appointed with power
to continue the business; and creditors were restrained
from enforcing their claims against the property. One of
the receivers was Robert S. Waters, a Vice-President and
General Manager of the Corporation and the son of John
H. Waters, its President, Chairman of its Board of Directors and member of the Reorganization Committee.
The other receiver was William G. Heiner, a Pittsburgh
lawyer. With like consent, ancillary receivers were appointed in ten other jurisdictions in which the Corporation had property; and also in Delaware where it had
none.
When the bill was filed, and when the receivers were
appointed, the Corporation could have paid from the
cash on hand all overdue debenture interest, as well as
all its other current liabilities, without impairing its
ability -to continue the business. The cash on hand was
$1,257,381.59.2 The overdue interest amounted then to
$709,395.69.' That $547,985.90, the difference between
these two amounts, was more than the amount required
for working capital ig demonstrated by action of the receivers. Two weeks after their appointment, they applied
'On the day of their appointment, the receivers had also $1,494,327.22 in sound receivables and at least $34,534.40 in securities convertible in cash.
"The aggregate of other current liabilities (including. amounts not
then payable) was only $157,511.89. There was besides the August
1, 1931 requirement for the sinking fund. But the debentures held
by the Corporation applicable for this purpose reduced the require-

ment of cash to $43,918.50.

514

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

for and obtained from the court leave to invest "such
amount or amounts of cash of the receivership estate as in
the judgment of the receivers is not needed at the time
for expenses and working capital." Thereupon, they
invested $1,030,000 of the cash in United States treasury
certificates of indebtedness and in bank certificates of
deposit.
The Bankers Trust Company, as trustee for the debenture holders, coperated in all respects with the Reorganization Committee; served as depositary under the
Plan; made formal demand for payment of the overdue
interest; and brought, with leave of court, suit for the
amount of the overdue interest on all outstanding debentures and recovered judgment therefor; thereupon declared the principal of the debentures immediately payable; recovered judgment therefor on December 30, 1931;
and then intervened in the receivership suit as plaintiff.
In due course, application was made for an order of sale.
The District Court did not make an appraisal by independent experts. In fixing the upset price and in confirming the sale, it relied practically upon the evidence
given, or introduced, by officers of the Corporation and
the members of the Reorganization Committee. On May
31, 1932, the decree ordering a sale was entered; the upset
price was fixed at $2,500,000; and a date after the sale was
set for a hearing on its confirmation and on the fairness of
the Plan. An appeal from this decree was taken forthwith. At the sale, held August 8, 1932, the property was
purchased in behalf of the Committee for $2,550,000 cash.
The purchasers assigned theii rights to the new company,
National Radiator Corporation of Maryland, which agreed
to enter an appearance in this cause; and upon the petition of the purchasers and the new company, a decree was
entered finding the Plan fair; confirming the sale; and
directing that the property be transferred to the new Corporation free and clear of all obligations to creditors of

FIRST NAT. BANK v. FLERSHEM.
504

Opinion of the Court.

the old. Thereupon, the assets were conveyed to the new
company, over the objection of some of the petitioners
that the appeal already filed rendered the court powerless
to take or approve further action. The same counsel acted
for the Reorganization Committee, the receivers and the
new company.
While all the petitioners refused assent to the Plan and
all appealed to the Circuit Court of Appeals from action of
the District Court, the differences in their several positions and contentions are such as to require separate consideration of their legal rights.
First. Amy Arzt and Josephine Ramsey, the petitioners
in No. 64, hold $121,000 of the debentures. They appeared specially at the hearing on the confirmation of the
sale; objected, among other things, on the ground that
the court lacked equity jurisdiction of the subject matter;
appealed to the Circuit Court of Appeals from the decree
affirming the sale; and contended there and here that,
since they refused assent to the Plan, the decree should,
as to them, be declared void, and reversed. Whether
strictly there was lack of equity jurisdiction, we need not
decide. Compare Burnrite Coal Co. v. Riggs, 274 U.S.
208; Lion Bldg. & Surety Co. v. Karatz, 262 U.S. 640;
Pusey & Jones Co. v. Hanssen, 261 U.S. 491. For the
suit is clearly without equity. The court's power was
invoked for a purpose for which it may not be exercised.
We have no occasion to consider under what circumstances a court of equity may, through appointment of
receivers and judicial sale, lend aid to protect the interests of creditors and effect a reorganization of an insolvent
corporation." Nor need we consider under what circum'All the cases in which this Court appears to have exercised this
power in aid of reorganization upon the ground of insolvency dealt
with railroads or other public utilities where continued operation of
the property and preservation of its unity seemed to be required in
the public interest. Milwaukee & Minnesota R. Co. v. Soutter, 2

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S

stances a court of equity may, because the assets of a
corporation are ample to meet all liabilities but cannot
then be immediately converted into cash, properly appoint receivers in order to preserve values and prevent
unequal treatment of creditors.' The case before us is
of a different character. The possibility of insolvency
was not mentioned when the board of directors voted to
make default in the payment of the semi-annual interest
on its funded indebtedness and approved the Plan of
Reorganization. While defaulting on its debentures, the
Corporation continued its business operations and paid
promptly its merchandise and other unfunded indebtedWall. 510; Davis v. Gray, 16 Wall, 203; Union Trust Co. v. Illinois
Midland Ry., 117 U.S. 434; Wallace v. Loomis, 97 U.S. 146; Wood v.
Guarantee Trust Co., 128 U.S. 416; Quincy, Missouri & Pacific Ry.
Co. v. Humphreys, 145 U.S. 82; Louisville Trust Co. v. Louisville,
N. A. & C. Ry. Co., 174 U.S. 674; Re Metropolitan Ry. Receivership,
208 U.S. 90; Kansas City Terminal Ry. Co. v. Central Union Trust
Co., 271 US. 445; compare Sage v. Central R. Co., 99 U.S. 334; Shaw
v.,Railroad Co., 100 U.S. 605. Moreover, in all those cases the sale
was made upon foreclosure. In Brown v. Lake Superior Iron Co., 134
U.S. 530, and Leadville Coal Co. v. McCreery, 141 U.S. 475, where
the defendant corporation had allowed the receivership of a rolling
mill to proceed nine months without answering and creditors did not
object until after the decree of sale, this Court refused to decide
whether originally the suit should have been allowed to proceed.
The Act of March 3, 1933, c. 204, ยง 77, 47 Stat. 1474, amending
the Bankruptcy Act, provides: "Reorganization of railroads engaged
in interstate commerce. (a) Any railroad corporation may file a
petition stating that the railroad corporation is insolvent or unable
to meet its debts as they mature and that it desires to effect a plan
of reorganization."
"In National Surety Co. v. Coriell, 289 U.S. 426, 435, the question
before this Court was not the equity of the bill, but the propriety of
the procedure pursued by the District Court when approving the
plan of reorganization. Compare Michigan v. Michigan Trust Co.,
286 U.S. 334, 343; Shapiro v. Wilgus, 287 U.S. 348, 356. Filene's Son8
Co. v. Weed, 245 U.S. 597; Riehle v. Margolies, 279 U.S. 218; Munroe
v. Raphael, 288 U.S. 485.

FIRST NAT. BANK v. FLERSHEM.
504

Opinion of the Court.

ness. Insolvency was not present, or imiinent. The debentures were not to mature until 1947. Insolvency even
in the remote future was not certain. This company
defaulted when it was both solvent and liquid. It defaulted, although it had cash in bank equal to three and a
half times its total current liabilities, including this interest. It defaulted, although the amount of the cash on
hand was so large that, even if the interest had been paid,
the surplus of cash remaining would have been more than
was then required for working capital.
This deliberate disregard by the Corporation of the
legal rights of the debenture holders is sought to be justified on the ground that the management, looking to the
long future, concluded that the course taken would enure
to the benefit of the business and all concerned-would
benefit bondholders as well as stockholders. The default
was the first step in a proposed revision of the capital
structure by which the funded indebtedness would be cut
in half and all fixed charges eliminated. The management, whose competency had been challenged, functioned
as members of the Reorganization Committee. Having
failed to obtain the assent of all the security holders to
its Plan, the Committee sought the aid of a court of
equity to compel the minority's acquiescence; and the,
Corporation joined as defendant in the prayers of the bill.
Reorganization was the primary relief sought. The appointment of the receivers and the judicial sale were the
device employed to effect a transfer of the assets of the
existing corporation to a new one, thereby relieving both
from the payment of the former's debts.' By these means
'Unless all debenture holders assented to the Plan, it could not be
effectuated except through the medium of a judicial sale. For the
indenture with the Bankers Trust Company, trustee, provided that
the property of the Radiator Corporation should not be sold as an
entirety unless "as a part of the purchase price for the sale of the
property of the company as an entirety [the purchaser] expressly

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

it was hoped to subject all dissenting creditors to the condition of impotency so frequently occupied by minority
stockholders.
The substantive law affords no warrant for so abridging
the rights of individual creditors. There is no contention
that the corporation laws of Delaware conferred such
power upon the board of directors and the majority of
the debenture holders. The purpose of the transaction
was to hinder and delay certain creditors. If, acting upon
purported authorizations from the board of directors and
all stockholders, the Radiator Corporation had sought to
achieve the purpose of the Reorganization Committee by
a voluntary transfer of all of the assets to a new corporation, the conveyance would have been fraudulent in law
as to dissenting debenture holders. It would have been a
fraudulent conveyance even if the transaction had been
entered upon solely in the interest of the debenture holders, in a well-founded belief that it would prove to their
advantage, and although full payment of the indebtedness
had been contemplated. Means v. Dowd, 128 U.S. 273.10
The illegality would not have been avoided by coupling
the transfer later with the appointment of a receiver.
Shapiro v. Wilgus, 287 U.S. 348, 354-5. Nor could the
illegality be avoided by first securing the appointment of
assumes in writing the due and punctual payment of the principal
and interest of all the debentures;" whereas the main purpose of the
Plan was to cut in half the amount of the debenture liability and to
eliminate all fixed charges through transferring the entire property
to a new company.
1
Similarly, it has been held that an assignment made for the benefit of creditors, by one who is solvent, to avoid temporary embarrassment and sacrifice of assets, is a fraudulent conveyance as to those
who have not consented; and that the conveyance will be set aside to
the extent necessary to permit non-assenting creditors to levy execution. Burt v. McKinstry, 4 Minn. 204; Gardner v. Commercial Nat.
Bank, 95 Ill. 298.

FIRST NAT. BANK v. FLERSHEM.
504

Opinion of the Court.

receivers and then effecting the transfer through- a receivers' sale. Since the purpose was fraudulent in law, the
rights of the non-assenting creditors cannot be impaired
by the Corporation's admission of the self-serving allegations of the bill. Compare Harkins v. Brundage, 276 U.S.
36.
The power of the District Court was invoked, not to en,force rights of creditors, but to defeat them. The fact
that the means employed to effect the fraudulent conveyance was the judgment of a court and not a voluntary
transfer does not remove the taint of illegality. 1' Jackson
v. Ludeling, 21 Wall. 616; compare James v. Railroad Co.,
6 Wall. 752; Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. Boyd, 228 U.S.
482, 507. Nor is it material that the Corporation became
insolvent later, long before entry of the order of sale, and
that, but for the appointment of receivers, some non-assenting debenture holders would have obtained a preference. The lack of equity in the bill when filed is not cured
by the insolvency later occurring. Compare Pusey &
Jones Co. v. Hanssen, 261 U.S. 491. Moreover the insolvency which supervened was precipitated by the Reorganization Committee, then the only plaintiffs in this suit.
It Oas at their request that the Bankers Trust Company,
as trustee, declared the principal of the debentures due;
recovered judgment thereon for $10,673,000; and inter"An execution sale under a consent judgment, where the consent
is, in effect, not- the act of the defendant, but that of the plaintiff
prosecuting the action, is in reality merely a volufitary transfer. To
give it any better standing would be the grossest sacrifice of substance
to form." Title Ins. & Trust Co. v. California Development Co., 171
Cal. 173, 210; 152 Pac. 542, 558. See also, Metcalf v. Moses, 35
App. Div. 596, 55 N.Y.S. 179; 161 N.Y. 587, 56 N.E. 67; Mechanics
Bank v. Burnet, 33 N.J.Eq. 486; Atwater v. American Exchange
Bank, 152 Ill. 605; 38 N.E. 1017; Skinner v. Case Threshing Machine
Co., 94 Ind. App. 651; 182 N.E. 99; Hill v. Pioneer Lumber Co., 113
N.C. 173; 18 S.E. 107.

520

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 US.

vened as party plaintiff. These acts were steps in carrying out the Plan in which the Corporation, the Committee and the Trust Company coperated.
The sale and reorganization being in law fraudulent as
to the petitioners in No. 64, it remains to consider the relief to which they are entitled. If, as in Shapiro v. Wilgus,
287 U.S. 348, 357, the reorganization had been effected by
a voluntary transfer and thereafter receivers had been appointed by the federal court, these creditors would, upon
recovery of judgment, have been "entitled to an order in
the alternative either for the payment of the judgment
out of the assets in the hands of the receivers or in default thereof for leave to issue execution." The relief
and the procedure should be the same here, although these
petitioners are not judgment creditors, and the transfer
followed the appointment of receivers. They should be
paid in full upon establishing their claims in this case,
because they were prevented by the interlocutory order
appointing receivers from proceeding against the assets,
fraudulently transferred, and thereby securing a lien,
which would have yielded them full payment. Compare
Metcalf v. Barker, 187 U.S. 165, 174; Freedman'sSavings
& T. Co. v. Earle, 110 U.S. 710; Chittenden v. Brewster,

2 Wall.

191.12

Nothing in the indenture with the Bankers Trust Company, or in its action as trustee thereunder, interferes with
affording them tlis relief. That instrument expressly
reserves to the individual debenture holders the right to
collect interest and principal in an action at law. If
that right was impaired by the acts of the Trust Company,
in declaring the principal of the debentures due and securing judgment thereon, equity will grant relief; because
those acts, done at the request of the Reorganization Com"See also Metcalf v. Moses, 35 App. Div. 596, 55 N.Y.S. 179; 161
N.Y, 587, 56 N.E. 67; Johnston v. Straus, 26 Fed. 57.

FIRST NAT. BANK v. FLERSHEM.
504

Opinion of the Court.

mittee, were incidents of the Plan which we hold was
fraudulent in law as to these petitioners.' The debenture
holders who, by assenting to the Plan, co~perated with
the Corporation and the Reorganization Committee, are
in no position to complain that these petitioners will fare
better than they. Compare Davis v. Virginia Ry. dPower Co., 229 Fed 633, 642.14 Since the assets fraudulently conveyed far exceed the amount of the claims of all
non-assenting creditors, none of these could have occasion
to object to the payment to these petitioners in full.
Second. Lily Clapier, the petitioner in No. 65, is the
holder of $11,000 of the debentures. She refused to assent
to the Plan of Reorganization, but did not seek to intervene in the receivership suit. Instead, she brought in the
The record does not show that all the debentures would not have
been paid in due course under proper management, in the absence of
the voluntary default made to effect the desired reorganization-and
other proceedings to that end.
" There, in a case of reorganization, the Court said: "The holders
of the bonds secured by the senior mortgages and the other debenture
bondholders of the Richmond Company had the ,opportunity to join
the petitioner in his effort to recover property which he alleged had
been taken from that on which they all relied for security. They refused to enter the contest, and accepted as full payment and satisfaction of their bonds the settlement offered in the reorganization. Thus
the petitioner was left as the only bondholder who chose to avail
himself of the reservation and make the contest, and it follows that
he alone is entitled to receive the fruit of his effort. . . . All other
creditors waived their rights, and were in the position of saying,
either that there was no merit in petitioner's contention, or that they
were unwilling to make any effort to bring under the security the
property alleged to have been diverted. Evidently, under such conditions, the property which may be recovered or brought back as a
part of the assets of the Richmond Company by petitioner's efforts
and expense would be applicable to his bonds. The principle is well
settled by authority. Freednan's S. & T. Co. v. Earle, 110 U.S.
710." See, also, In re American Candy Mfg. Co., 256 Fed. 87, 88;
George v. St. Louis Cable & Western Ry. Co., 44 Fed. 117, 120-124.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

same court, a separate suit against the Corporation and
the receivers in the nature of a bill of review. Suing on
behalf of herself and all other creditors who had refused
to accept the Plan, she charged that the court was without
jurisdiction in equity to appoint receivers; and prayed
that the decree appointing them lie vacated and no further
proceedings be had. The receivers and the Corporation
moved to dismiss the Clapier suit on the ground that the
bill failed to set forth a cause of action. These motions
were granted, without passing upon the question whether
in view of the fact that two of the defendants were citizens of the same State as the plaintiff, there was lack of
federal jurisdiction. From the decree of dismissal she
appealed to the Circuit Court of Appeals.
"A bill of review is called for only after a final decreeone that finally adjudicates upon the entire merits, leaving nothing further to be done except the execution of it."
John Simmons Co. v. Grier Bros. Co., 258 U.S. 82, 88.
For this reason, a bill of review will not lie to review an
interlocutory order appointing a receiver. The dismissal
of the Clapier suit was, therefore, proper. But that decree should have been without prejudice to her right to
prosecute her claim against the Corporation, the assets in
the hands of the receivers and the new company. To
this end she should be given leave to intervene in the
receivership suit and there present her claim for such
relief as may appear to be appropriate. As the new corporation became party to the suit when it applied for
confirmation of the sale, there is here no obstacle to this
procedure. Compare Naotioval Surety Co. v. Coriell, 289
U.S. 426, 438; Kneeland v. American Loan Co., 136
U.S. 89.
Third. The First National Bank, one of the two petitioners in Nos. 62 and 63, is the holder of $68,000 of the
debentures. It filed, before the hearing on ordering the
sale, a petition for leave to intervene; and was permitted

FIRST NAT. BANK v. FLERSHEM.
504

Opinion of the Court.

to do so as party defendant, but only "in subordination
to and recognition of the propriety of the main proceeding." In the hearings on ordering the sale, on approving
the Plan, and on confirming the sale, it took part by crossexamination of witnesses and by argument; but it did not
introduce any evidence. It appealed from both the interlocutory and the final decree.
The-Bank does not claim that the District Court was
without equity jurisdiction or that the bill lacked equity.
It concedes that the court could properly lend its aid. ,o
effectuate the proposed reorganization and, to this end,
might sell the assets as an entirety. Its contention is that
the property held in receivership was a trust fund to be
administered for the benefit of each and every creditor,
and since some of the debenture holders had refused to
assent to the Plan of Reorganization, the court was under
the duty to make the sale on such terms and under such
conditions as would ensure to them, as their distributive
share of the assets, the largest amount in cash which could
be realized therefrom; and that the court, basing its
action upon estimates offered in support of the Plan, fixed
a grossly inadequate upset price and erred in confirming
the sale. The respondents insist that the non-assenting
debenture holders were entitled only to their distributive
share of the sum for which the property could have been
sold if scrapped; and that they would, under the price
paid, receive that much.
It is clear from the evidence introduced by the Reorganization Committee and the receivers that the upset
price and the sale price were far below even the scrap
value. The upset price fixed was $2,500,000. The entire
property was sold to the Reorganization Committee for
$2,550,000. At that time the cash and assets equivalent
to cash alone aggregated $2,192,804.95. There was cash
$1,551,615.78; and notes and accounts receivable (after
deducting ample reserve for doubtful accounts) $641,-

524

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

189.17. Besides, there were $1,671,605.91 in raw material,
goods in process and manufactured; bonds, stocks and
like items valued at $88,873.41; manufacturing plants,
and the warehouses in the several cities theretofore valued
at $6,388,318.63; goodwill, trade marks and patents theretofore valued at $6,634,501.90; and other assets valued
at $166,475.65. Moreover, the existence of the Plan of
Reorganization, assented to by a vast majurity of the
security holders, gave assurance of at least one bidder for
the entire property who had confidence that the business,
if sold as an entirety as a going concern, possessed a value
greater than its liquidating value; and would, if necessary
to effectuate the Plan, bid for the assets in cash more than
the estimated liquidating value. The upset price and
the sale price were grossly inadequate. 5
It seems to have been the aim of the Reorganization Committee
to have the upset price fixed at a sum which would yield to nonassenting debenture holders not more than the then market value of
their bonds. At one time it had made at one of its meetings a tentative suggestion of $3,600,000. The gross inadequacy of the upset price
is illustrated by the division of the $2,500,000, as applied to the ten
separate parcels in which, as a formality, the property was offered
before selling it as an entirety to the Reorganization Committee.
Parcel A for which the upset price of $2,392,000 was set included,
besides the plants and other real estate in Pennsylvania, all the personal property except that used in connection with the plants and
other real estate located in the other eight States. Parcel B embraced
the plant and appurtenant real and personal property in New Jersey
(including 111/2 acres near Trenton and 14 dwelling houses), carried
on the books at $861,179.12. The upset price on this parcel was fixed
at $28,000. Parcel C embraced the plant and appurtenant real and
personal property in Massachusetts (including 23 acres at Framingham), carried on the books at $592,452.64. The upset price for this
parcel was fixed at $17',500. Parcel D embraced the plant and appurtenant real and personal property at North Tonawanda (including 10
acres) and Dunkirk, New York, valued on the books at $1,318,373.60.
The upset price for this parcel was fixed at $37,500. Parcel E included 10 acres of land, the plants and appurtenant real and personal

FfIRST NAT. BANK v. FLERSHEM.
504

Opinion of the Court.

In justifying the action taken, the Court of Appeals
called attention to the fact that the non-assenting creditors had not introduced any evidence to prove their contention that the sale should not be confirmed. In view
of the undisputed facts stated above, the introduction of
such evidence was not indispensable. The failure to
secure an adequate price seems to have been due, not to
lack of opposing evidence, but to the mistaken belief that
it was the duty'of the court to aid in effectuating the Plan
of Reorganization, since a very large majority of the debenture holders had assented to it. Moreover, the court
stood in a position different from that which it occupies
in ordinary litigation, where issues are to be determined
solely upon such evidence as the contending parties choose
to introduce. In receivership proceedings, as was held in
National Surety Co. v. Coriell, 289 U.S. 426, 436, every
important determination by the court calls for an informed, independent judgment; and special reasons exist
for requiring adequate, trustworthy information where
the jurisdiction rests wholly upon the consent of the defendant who joins in the prayers for relief. It would be
property and a warehouse at Chicago, Illinois, carried on the books
at $605,149.43; and also the Edgewood Apartment Hotel, at Chicago,
carried on the books at $51,172.31. The upset price fixed for this
parcel was $17,500. Parcel F included the warehouse at Baltimore,
Maryland, and the usual equipment, which was carried on the books

at $33,477.93. The upset price on this parcel was fixed at $1,000.
Parcel G included the warehouse equipment at Cincinnati, Ohio,
which was carried on the books at $48,632.84. The upset price on
this parcel was fixed at $2,250. Parcel H included the warehouse at
Richmond, Virginia, which was carried on the books at $26,045.42.
The upset price on this parcel was fixed at $1,000. Parcel I included
two warehouses at Hempstead, New York, which was carried on the
books at $30,093.81. The upset price on this parcel was fixed at
$1,000. Parcel J included the warehouse at Washington, D.C., which
was carried on the books at $58,536.53. The upset price on this
parcel was fixed. at $1,000.

526

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

unreasonable to impose upon a few dissenting creditors
the heavy financial burden of making an adequate appraisal supported by the testimony of competent experts,
where, as here, the assets include extensive plants and
equipment located in nine states.
The relief which the Bank seeks is that sum in cash
which it would have received if the property had been sold
at a proper price. To this relief it is clearly entitled.
The cause is remanded to the District Court for the purpose of ascertaining the sum. In making the determination it must be borne in mind that the problem which was
presented to the trial court upon the application for the
receivers' sale of the assets of this manufacturing company, with its many far flung plants and warehouses, was a
very different one from that with which courts have been
confronted upon applications for sale on foreclosure of
railroad systems. In such cases, it is ordinarily necessary
that the property be sold as an entirety. The unity of
the system must be preserved in both the public and the
private interest, and the large amount of cash required by
the upset price renders the Reorganization Committee,
which ordinarily controls a large majority of the outstanding securities, practically the only bidder.1" Compare
Kansas City Terminal Ry. Co. v. Central Union Trust
1

By the decree the purchaser was required to pay only $300,000
in cash, presumably to cover the expenses and fees of the Reorganization Committee, the receivers and counsel. The decree provided
that on the balance of the purchase price: "The Purchaser shall be
credited on account of his purchase price for Debentures and coupons
and assigned claims finally established and allowed, turned over in
part payment of the purchase price, with such sum as would be paid
in respect of such Debentures, coupons and assigned claims out of the
proceeds of sale, if the whole amount of the purchase price had been
paid in cash." By this provision, customary in decrees for sales of
railroad systems on foreclosure, the Reorganization Committee was
relieved of the necessity of raising a large sum in cash-a necessity
which naturally would deter bidders not so situated.

FIRST NAT. BANK v. FLERSHEM.
504

527

Opinion of the Court.

Co., 271 U.S. 445, 453-4. In the case at bar, preservation
of the unity of the property was not essential. The sale
of the assets in many parcels was possible; and perhaps
desirable in the interest of all concerned.
A detailed appraisal must now be made of the Corporation's assets as of the date of the sale, based upon then
values and the possibility of disposing of them in parcels,
as well as an entirety. The appraisal of the current assets
will present little difficulty. And the experience gained
since the sale in collecting the receivables and in disposing
of the inventory will be of aid. The appraisal of the
property other than the current assets will require careful
preparation and consideration. The inadequacy of the
upset price seems to have resulted mainly from the assumption that the only alternatives were to continue to
operate the properties as an entirety or to scrap all; and
from a determination that the properties should not be
scrapped. So far as appears, no consideration was then
given to the possibility of selling the properties in such
parcels as would permit of reconstituting as separate units
some of the original independent concerns; or to the fact
that a detailed valuation of the many items of which the
assets, tangible and intangible, were composed was essential to intelligent bidding for the property in such parcels
or as scrap; or to th fact that if the sale was not made as
an entirety the appropriate markets for some of the parcels or lots might not be New Castle, Pennsylvania, where
the sale was held. Moreover, no attempt appears to have
been made then to secure bids from buyers of scrapped
properties.
The history of the enterprise lends no support to the
view that unless all the property was to be scrapped, all
had to be sold as an entirety. The losses of the Corporation appear to have been due largely to the fundamental
mistake of judgment committed in merging, the several
independent concerns. Before the consolidation each of

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 UB.

the six independent concerns earned large profits. Their
aggregate profits for each of the last three years before
the merger had averaged $3,455,642 a year. A few months
after the merger the Corporation entered upon a period
of heavy losses which continued unbroken up to the time
of the receivers' sale. The abrupt change from profit to
loss was not the result of the general business depression.
Although 1928 and 1929 were years of general business
prosperity," the loss of the Corporation (before payment
of debenture interest) was $587,123 in 1928; and $490,371
in 1929.18

The heavy losses during 1928, 1929 and later

years (including the period of the receivership) appear
to have been due in large measure to the cost of carrying
unused properties. During the receivership, only the
Pennsylvania plants were in operation. 19 For them there
was still substantial business; and that business might
then have been profitable if not burdened with the cost
of carrying the many unused properties.20 In valuing the
assets the appraisers should also bear in mind that, even
if part of the properties should have been sold as scrap,
the Reorganization Committee was a willing purchaser for
the rest.
Fourth. The International Heater Company, the other
petitioner in Nos. 62 and 63, holds three promissory notes
of the Corporation of $20,000 each, maturing respectively
"The losses were, doubtless, due in part to the fact that already,
at the end of 1927, the very lucrative "direct to the consumer"
business theretofore carried on by two of the theretofore independent
concerns had to be discontinued, because incompatible with the selling
methods of the other plants of the consolidated company.
The greater part of the products of these plants was used in the
new buildings. In the year 1928, the new construction in America
was said to have reached its all-time record.
"See note 1, supra.

'During the first four months of the receivership the gross sales
were $1,300,000. For the first fifty days of the receivership an operating gain of $31,917.77 was turned into a loss of $14,630.44 by reason
of maintenance expense of the non-operating plants of $46,548.21.

FIRST NAT. BANK v. FLERSHEM.
504

Opinion of the Court.

on the last days of 1931, 1932 and 1933. It refused assent
to the Plan; but it does not questiok either that the District Court had equity jurisdiction of the cause, or that
there was equity in the bill. It expressly concedes that
the court could properly lend its aid to enable security
holders of an unsuccessful corporation to find, through reorganization, a practical method of continuing the business. Its main objection is that under the decree entered,
it is denied payment in cash of the amount to which it is
entitled. The Heater Company did not learn of the application for the order of sale until after the hearing
thereon had closed. Then it filed a petition to intervene;
was permitted to intervene as defendant, but only "in
subordination to, and recognition of, the propriety of the
proceeding "; and it appealed to the Circuit Court of Appeals from both the decree ordering the sale and from that'
confirming it and approving the Plan. It seeks reversal
of the decree on two entirely distinct and alternative
grounds.
1. The Heater Company asks that, pursuant to the
Plan, these notes be paid in full by the new corporation.
The Plan provides that debts for merchandise or services
shall be paid by the new corporation in full. These notes
were part of the purchase price paid, in the latter part of
1927, for a minority interest in the stock of the Lincoln
Radiator Company, the majority interest of which the
Corporation had previously acquired. The Heater Company contends that the notes, being a part of the current
indebtedness of the old company, and having been given
for personal property, are to be deemed merchandise debts
within the meaning of the Plan; but that, if the Plan
as drawn does not include them, it should be amended by
the court, so as to provide for the payment of the notes in
full. The Court of Appeals rejected this contention. We
think it was right, substantially for the reasons stated
by it.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Syllabus.

290 U.S.

2. The Heater Company contends that, if the notes are
not to be paid in full, it should receive a sum much larger
than its distributive share of the purchase price paid by
the new corporation. Unlike the Bank, it does not argue
that the court was obliged to make an independent investigation into the value of the assets before fixing the upset
price. Its contentions are that the Heater Company
should not be prejudiced by its own failure to introduce
evidence on that issue since it had no notice or knowledge
of the hearing; that, moreover, the gross inadequacy of
the price paid was due to the fact that, instead of aiming
to secure for non-assenting creditors the largest possible
sum in cash, the court treated the receivers' sale as merely
a necessary step in effectuating the Plan of Reorganization; and hence adopted a method of selling which excluded all bidders except the Reorganization Committee.
We have no occasion to discuss this argument in detail.
For the reasons stated in connection with the Bank's
claim, we think that the sale was made at a grossly inadequate price; and that it was invalid also as to the Heater
Company. Like the Bank, the Heater Company is entitled to receive in cash its distributive share of the
amount which, upon the new appraisal, shall be found to
have been the fair selling value of the assets.
In Nos. 62, 63 and 64, decree reversed as to petitioners.
In No. 65, decree modified, and as modified affirmed.
FIX, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE, v.
PHILADELPHIA BARGE CO. ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
THIRD CIRCUIT.

FOR THE

No. 153. Argued December 13, 1933.-Decided January 8, 1934.
Though an action brought by a collector of internal revenue on a
bond running to him or his successors will abate upon his resigna-

