534

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Syllabus.

290 U.S.

vice of the ruling below, and of the argument -here in
support of it, is the failure to give effect to this distinction. The present bond runs to each successor, as it ran
to the original obligee and with like effect; and, notwithstanding the termination of the latter's possession of the
office, the cause of action which arose in his favor survives for appropriate enforcement by his several successors. Tyler v. Hand, 7 How. 573; Bowers v. American
Surety Co., 30 F. (2d) 244. This accords with the policy
of the revival statute, as observed by Judge L. Hand in
the case last cited. A conclusion to the contrary would
subvert the purpose of the bond, which "is to create an
obligation in favor of the incumbents, as they succeed each
other."
Judgment reversed.
BURROUGHS

AND

CANNON v. UNITED STATES.

CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 434.

Argued December 5, 1933.-Decided January 8, 1934.

1. The Federal Corrupt Practices Act of February 28, 1925, provides
that any political committee which accepts contributions or makes
expenditures for the purpose of influencing the election of presidential or vice-presidential electors in two or more States, or (with
certain exceptions), as subsidiary of a national committee, shall
have a chairman and treasurer; that the treasurer, among other
duties, shall keep detailed and exact accounts of all contributions
made to or for the committee; that every person who receives a
contribution for the committee shall render to the treasurer a detailed account thereof, with specified particulars; and that the
treasurer shall file with the Clerk of the House of Representatives,
at designated times, a statement containing the name and address
of each contributor, and other particulars, complete as of the day
next preceding the date of filing. Violations of the Act are made
substantive crimes. Held within the power of Congress. P. 544.
2. The Act seeks to protect the purity of presidential and vice-presidential elections; it is confined to situations which are beyond the
power of a State to deal with adequately, if at all; and neither in

BURROUGHS

AND

CANNON v. U.S.

535

Statement of the Case.

534

purpose nor in effect does it interfere with the power of a State,
under § 1, Art. II of the Constitution, to appoint the electors or
with the manner in which their appointment shall be made.
P. 544.
3. Presidential electors are not officers or agents of the Federal Government (In re Green, 134 U.S. 377); but they exercise federal
functions under, and discharge duties in virtue of authority conferred by, the Federal Constitution. P. 545.
4. The power of Congress to protect the election of President and
Vice-Prisident from corruption being clear, the choice of means
is primarily for the judgment of Congress. If it can be seen that
the means adopted are really calculated to attain the end, the
degree of their necessity, the extent to which they conduce to the
end, the closeness of the relationship between the means adopted
and the end to be attained, are matters for congressional determination alone. P. 547.
5. Counts of an indictment alleged with detail that B was the treasurer of a political committee, within the intendment of the Corrupt Practices Act, and that certain contributions, fully described,
were made for the committee; recited that it was B's duty under
the Act to file statements of these contributions; and charged that
B and C, chairman of the committee, "then well knowing all the
premises aforesaid," conspired to commit the offenses charged in
other counts, the allegations of which were incorporated in the
conspiracy counts by reference. The counts incorporated sought
to charge B with the substantive offenses, under the Act, of failing
and wilfully failing to file statements of the contributions with
the Clerk of the House of Representatives. Held that the conspiracy counts were sufficient, although the substantive counts
were bad because they did not allege that B knew of the contributions. P. 542.
6. Intent unlawfully and wilfully to evade performance of a statu-.
tory duty is clearly enough alleged by the statement that .the
accused conspired to evade it. P. 544.
7. Pertinent facts set forth in a defective count of an indictment may
be considered in determining the adequacy of another count in
which it is incorporated by reference. P. 544.
62 App.D.C. 163; 65 F. (2d) 796, affirmed in part.

Review by certiorari* of a judgment sustaining an
indictment charging Burroughs with substantive viola*

See Table of Cases Reported in this volume.

536

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Argument for Petitioners.

290 U.S.

tions of the Corrupt Practices Act; Cannon as aiding,
abetting and procuring commission of the offenses; and
both with conspiracy to commit them. The Supreme
Court of the District had quashed the whole indictment
for insufficiency. This Court rejects the substantive
counts but sustains the conspiracy counts.
Mr. Robert H. McNeill for petitioners.
The-Constitution confers upon the State the exclusive
power of appointing presidential electors and over all acts
relating thereto, except the time of choosing them. Having fixed the time, Congress has exhausted all of its
power respecting their appointment, save the power to
prevent the discriminations forbidden by the Fourteenth,
Fifteenth, and Nineteenth Amendments.
The method of appointing presidential electors and
the principle of the people acting by States were retained
in the Eleventh Amendment.
The provisions contained in the Fourteenth, Fifteenth,
and Nineteenth Amendments, designed to protect citizens
of the United States from discrimination by the State, or
state agencies, on account of race, color or previous condition of servitude, or on account of sex, and to insure
the equal protection.of the law, do not apply to the acts
of individuals or groups of individuals, such as a committee referred to in the indictment in this case. James
v. Bowman, 190 U.S. 127; Civil Rights Cases, 109 U.S. 3.
In each of these Amendments (XIV, XV, XIX) the
legislative authority of Congress is restricted to protection against discrimination by state action and of the
particular type covered by the Amendment; and in each
instance the Amendment in express terms provides for
the enactment of appropriate legislation by Congress to
effectuate that purpose. That neither the Fourteenth
nor the Fifteenth Amendment in any way altered the exclusive power of the state legislatures to appoint presidential electors, except to insure against the type of dis-

-BURROUGHS
534

AND

CANNON v. U.S.

Argument for Petitioners.

crimination with which each Amendment deals, is settled by the decision of this Court in McPherson v.
Blacker, where the exact question was raised. 146
U.S. 38.
The Nineteenth Amendment is in the precise terms of
the Fifteenth with the substitution of the word "sex"
color or previous condition of servifor the words, ".Race,
tude." It has been repeatedly held that the Fifteenth
Amendment does not confer upon colored men the right
of suffrage, - it only forbids discrimination. United
States v. Reese, 92 U.S. 214.
This Court has held that the term "appoint" in Art.
II, § 1, covers any method fixed by the state legislature,
including a popular election at which the people vote for
presidential electors. McPherson v. Blacker, 146 U.S.
38. See also the opinion of the state court in this same
case, 92 Mich. 377, and Re Opinion of the Justices, 118
Me. 552; Vertrees v. State Board of Elections, 141 Tenn.
645; State ex rel. Barker v. Bowen, 8 S.C. 382.
The instant case does not involve any question of the
power of Congress to legislate after the elector has been
appointed, or of the right of Congress to judge of the
regularity of votes cast for-an, elector when counting the
electoral vote as required by the Constitution, upon which
subject there is a conflict of authority. But in so far as
these questions may be regarded as having been decided,
the weight of authority supports the conclusion that
Congress may not go behind the certificate of an elector
issued by state authorities.
This Court has conclusively settled the status of a presidential elector as a state officer, as respects both his appointment and attempts to influence his appointment.
McPherson v. Blacker, 146 U.S. 38; Fitzgerald v. Green,
134 U.S. 377.
The decisions of the state courts establish that the appointment of presidential electors is exclusively the func-

538

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Argument for Petitioners.

290 US.

tion of the state legislature and that, as to his creation, he
is a state officer. Re Opinion of the Justices, 118 Me.
552; Re State Question No. 137, 244 Pac. 806; Note, 43
L.R.A. (N.S.) 282; Todd v. Johnson, 99-Ky. 548; Donclan v. Bird, 118 Ky. 178; Hodge v. Bryan, 149 Ky. 110;
Marshall v. Dillon, 149 Ky. 115. See also: In re Absentee
Voters Law (1921), 80 N.H. 595; Electoral College Case,
8 Fed. Cas. 4336; State ex rel. Barker v. Bowen, 8 S.C.
382; Vertrees v. State Board of Elections, 141 Tenn. 645;
Fineranv. Bailey, 2 F. (2d) 363.
State, not federal, courts exercise jurisdiction to settle
disputes regarding manner of appointing presidential electors and acts relating thereto.
It is elementary that Congress has no power to police
the acts of citizens except with respect to a function committed by the Constitution to the Federal Government.
United States v. De Witt, 9 Wall. 41; Civil Rights Cases,
109 U.S. 3; United States v. Cruikshank, 92 U.S. 542;
United States v. Reese, 92 U.S. 214; Dougherty, The
Electoral System of the United States, p. 20.
There is no inherent or implied power in Congress to
regulate the appointment of presidential electors. Kansas
v. Colorado, 206 U.S. 46.
The indictment is insufficient to comply with the Sixth
Amendment.
The gravamen of the offense is the alleged failure of
the treasurer of a political committee to report an indirect
contribution made 'for the committee. None of the
counts alleges facts and circumstances giving rise under
the Act to any duty of the treasurer to make a report.
The mere allegation that a contribution was made for the
committee does not show to whom the contribution was
paid or that it was ever accepted, or accounted for to the
committee. Facts to show a duty to account are essential
to the offense under the statute, where the Government

BURROUGHIS
534

AND

CANNON v. U.S.

Argument for Petitioners.

elects to prosecute for an indirect contribution. Their
omission makes the indictment fatally defective. Merely
following the statute is not always sufficient. United
States v. Carll, 105 U.S. 611; Moens v. United States, 50
App.D.C. 15; United States v. Cruikshank, 92 U.S. 542;
United States v. Johnson, 26 App.D.C. 136; Miller v.
United States, 136 Fed. 581; People v. Wys, 25 Porto Rico
483; Duncan v. State, 7 Humph. 148.
The use of the word "wilfully" where it appears in the
felony counts was intended to indicate merely that the
increased penalty provided under § 252 was to be invoked.
Cf. United States v. Britten, 107 U.S. 655. See also:
Felton v. United States, 96 U.S. 699; Spurr v. United
States, 174 U.S. 728.
The mere allegation of a wilful failure to report does
not supply the omitted facts. Potter v. United States,
155 U.S. 438. It is essential that scienter be directly, and
not inferentially, alleged. United States v. Carll, 105
U.S. 611; Moens v. United States, 50 App.D.C. 15; Pettibone v. United States, 148 U.S. 197, 206, 208.
If a statute upon which the indictment is founded only
describes the general nature of the offense prohibited, the
indictment, in repeating its language without averments
disclosing the particulars of the alleged offense, states no
matters upon which issue can be formed for submission
to a jury. United States v. Hess, 124 U.S. 483, 486;
Keck v. United States, 172 U.S. 434, 437; Moens v.
United States, 50 App.D.C. 15; Foster v. United States,
253 Fed. 481; Collins v. United States, 253 Fed. 609;
United States v. Marx, 122 Fed. 964; United States v.
B. & 0. R. Co., 153 Fed. 997; United States v. Bopp, 230
Fed. 723; United States v. Robinson, 266 Fed. 240.
If the offense can not be accurately and clearly described without expanding the allegations beyond the
mere words of the statute, then the allegations must be

540

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

expanded to that extent. United States v. Mann, 95
U.S. 580, 585; Moens v. United States, 50 App.D.C. 15.
With respect to the conspiracy counts, the Government
contends that scienter is clearly alleged by the words
"each of said defendants then well knowing all the premises aforesaid unlawfully and feloniously did conspire . . . and agree together" to commit the offenses
charged in the substantive counts. The only "premises
aforesaid" which the appellees are charged with knowing is that E. C. Jameson made contributions "for the
committee" on dates specified. It is nowhere alleged to
whom the contributions were made, or paid, nor are any
other facts set forth giving rise to the duty of the treasurer to demand an accounting and file report.
Solicitor General Biggs, with whom Messrs. Robert, P.
Reeder, W. Marvin Smith, and John J. Wilson were on
the brief, for the Uhited States.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the
Court.
An indictment returned by a grand jury sitting in the
District of Columbia charges petitioners, in ten counts,
with violations of the Federal Corrupt Practices Act of
February 28, 1925, c. 368, Title III, 43 Stat. 1053, 1070;
U.S.C., Title 2, § 241, et seq. The pertinent provisions of
the act are contained in §§ 241, 242 and 243, reproduced
in the margin,* and in §§ 244 and 252. Section 241 de"Section 241. Definitions.-When used in this chapter-

"(c) The term 'political committee' includes any committee, association, or organization which accepts contributions or makes expenditures for the purpose of influencing. or attempting to influence the
election of candidates or presidential and vice presidential electors
(1) in two or more States, or (2) whether or not in more than one

State if such committee, association, or organization (other than a

BURROUGHS
534

AND

CANNON v. U.S.

541

Opinion of the Court.

fines the term, "political committee," as including any
organization which accepts contributions for the purpose
of influencing or attempting to influence the election of
presidential and vice presidential electors in two or more
states. Every political committee is required to have a
chairman and a treasurer before any contribution may be
accepted. One of the duties of the treasurer is to keep
a detailed and exact account of all contributions made to
duly organized State or local committee of a political party) is a
branch or subsidiary of a national committee, association, or
organization;
"242. Chairman and treasurer of political committee; duties as to
contributions; accounts and receipts.-(a) Every political committee
shall have a chairman and a treasurer. No contribution shall be accepted, and no expenditure made, by or on behalf of a political committee for the purpose of influencing an election until such chairman
and treasurer have been chosen.
"(b) It shall be the duty of the treasurer of a political committee
to keep a detailed and exact account of"(1) All contributions made to or for such committee;
"(2) The name and address of every person making any such contribution, and the date thereof;
"(3) All expenditures made by or on behalf of such committee;
and
"(4) The name and address of every person to whom any such
expenditure is made, and the date thereof.
"(c) It shall be the duty of the treasurer to obtain and keep a
receipted bill, stating the particulars, for every expenditure by or on
behalf of a political committee exceeding $10 in amount. The treasurer shall preserve all receipted bills and accounts required to be
kept by this section for a period of at least two years from the date
of the filing of the statement containing such items.
"243. Accounts of contributions received.-Every person who receives a contribution for a political committee shall, on demand of
the treasurer, and in any event within five days after the receipt of
such contribution, render to the treasurer a detailed account thereof,
including the name and address of the person making such contribution, and the-date on which received."

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

or for the committee. Every person who receives a contribution for a political committee is required to render to
the treasurer a detailed account thereof, with-specified
particulars. By § 244, the treasurer is required to file
with the clerk of the House of Representatives, at designated times, a statement containing the name and address
of each contributor, date and amount of each contribution and other particulars, complete as of the day next
preceding the date of filing. By § 252 (a), penalties of
fine and imprisonment are imposed upon any person who
violates any of the provisions of the chapter; and by
subdivision (b), increased penalties are imposed upon any
person who willfully violates any of those provisions.
The first eight counts of the indictment purport to
charge petitioners with substantive violations of the act,
and the ninth and tenth counts, with conspiracy to violate it-four of the eight counts charging willful viola,tions; the other four merely charging violations, that is to
say "unlawful" violations.
In the supreme court of the District, a demurrer was
interposed to the indictment on the grounds (1) that each
count of the indictment failed to allege facts sufficient to
constitute an offense against the United States, and (2)
that the Federal Corrupt Practices Act contravenes § 1,
Art. II, of the Federal Constitution, providing for the
appointment by each state of electors. The District
supreme court sustained the demurrer upon the first
ground, rendering tinnecessary any ruling as to the second. Upon appeal to the District court of appeals the
judgment was reversed. That court ruled each of the ten
counts sufficient, and upheld the constitutionality of the
act. 62 App.D.C. 163; 65 F. (2d) 796. The case is here
on certiorari.
First. We do not stop to describe the eight substantive
counts. In the opinion of a majority of the court, there
is a failure in each count to charge an offense under the

BURROUGHS
534

AND

CANNON v. U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

statute. The conspiracy counts we hold are sufficient.
The ninth count charges with particularity that the petitioner Burroughs was the treasurer of a designated political committee from July 22, 1928, to and including
March 16, 1929, which committee during that period accepted contributions and made expenditures for the purpose of influencing and attempting to influence the election of presidential and vice presidential electors in two
states. The several amounts of certain contributions
made for the committee are set forth, together with the
dates when made and the name of the contributor. The
count recites the duty of Burroughs under the statute to
make the statements therein prescribed in respect of these
contributions, and charges that both petitioners, one as
treasurer and the other as chairman of the committee,
"then well knowing all the premises aforesaid," unlawfully and feloniously did conspire together and with other
persons to commit "the four willfully committed offenses" charged against Burroughs as treasurer in the
first, third, fifth and seventh counts of the indictment,
namely, willful failure to file the statements of such contributions required by § 244, the allegations of those
counts-being incorporated by reference as fully as if repeated. The count further alleges certain overt acts committed in pursuance of the conspiracy.
The tenth count charges in substantially identical language a conspiracy to commit the four offenses not designated as willful, charged in the second, fourth, sixth and
eighth counts of the indictment, namely, unlawful failure
to file the required statements, the allegations of those
counts being likewise incorporated by reference as fully
as if repeated.
We are of opinion that these allegations are sufficient
in each count to charge a conspiracy to violate the pertinent provisions of the act. Knowjedge of the facts constituting the contemplated substantive offenses is suffi-

544

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

ciently alleged by the phrase, "well knowing all the
premises aforesaid." Brooks v. United States, 267 U.S.
432, 439-440. And intent unlawfully, or unlawfully and
willfully, to evade performance of the statutory duty isclearly enough alleged by the statement that the accused
conspired to do so. Frohwerk v. United States, 249 U.S.
204, 209. Moreover, quite apart from the question of
their legal sufficiency to charge substantive offenses, the
eight counts which are incorporated by description set
forth the pertinent facts, and may be considered in determining the adequacy of the conspiracy counts.. Crain v.
United States, 162 U.S. 625, 633; Blitz v. United,States,
153 U.S. 308, 317. These facts are narrated by the court
below and need not be repeated here.
Second. The only point of the constitutional objection
necessary to be considered is that the power of appointment of presidential electors and the manner of their
appointment are expressly committed by § 1, Art. II, of
the Constitution to the states, and that the congressional
authority is thereby limited to determining "the time of
choosing the electors, and the day on which they shall give
their votes; which day shall be the same throughout the
United States." So narrow a view of the powers of Congress in respect of the matter is without warrant.
The congressional act under review seeks to preserve
the purity of presidential and vice presidential elections.
Neither in purpose nor in effect does it interfere with the
power of a state to appoint electors or the manner in
which their appointment shall be made. It deals with
political committees organized for the purpose of influencing elections in two or more states, and with branches
or subsidiaries of national committees, and excludes from
its operation state or local committees. Its operation,
therefore, is confined to situations which, if not beyond
the power of the state to deal with at all, are beyond its

BURROUGHS
534

AND

CANNON v. U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

power to deal with adequately. It in no sense invades
any exclusive state power.
While presidential electors are not officers or agents of
the federal government (In re Green, 134 U.S. 377, 379),
they exercise federal functions under, and discharge duties
in virtue of authority conferred by, the Constitution of
the United States. The President is vested with the executive power of the nation. The importance of his election and the vital character of its relationship to and
effect upon the welfare and safety of the whole people
cannot be too strongly stated. To say that Congress is
without power to pass appropriate legislation to safeguard
such an election from the improper use of money to influence the result is to deny to the nation in a vital particular the power of self protection. Congress, undoubtedly, possesses that power, as it possesses every other
power essential to preserve the departments and institutions of the general government from impairment or
destruction, whether threatened by force or by corruption.
In Ex parte Yarbrough, 110 U.S. 651, this court sustained the validity of § 5508 of the Revised Statutes,
which denounced as an offense a conspiracy to interfere
in certain specified ways with any citizen in the free exercise or enjoyment of any right or privilege secured to him
by the Constitution or laws of the United States; and" of
§ 5520, which denounced as an offense any conspiracy to
prevent by force, etc., any citizen lawfully entitled to vote
from giving his support, etc., toward or in favor of the
election of any lawfully qualified person as an elector for
President or Vice President, or as a member of Congress.
The indictments there under consideration charged Yarbrough and others with conspiracies in violation of these
sections. The court held, against the contention of the
accused, that both sections were constitutional. It is true
that while § 5520 includes interferences with persons in

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

giving their support to the election of presidential and
vice presidential electors, the indictments related only to
the election of a member of Congress. The court in its
opinion, however, made no distinction between the two,
and the principles announced, as well as the language
employed, are broad enough to include the former as well
as the latter. The court said (pp. 657-658):
"That a government whose essential character is republican, whose executive head and legislative body are
both elective, whose most numerous and powerful branch
of the legislature is elected by the people directly, has no
power by appropriate laws to secure this election from
the influence of violence, of corruption, and of fraud, is
a proposition so startling as to arrest attention and demand the gravest consideration.
"If this government is anything more than a mere aggregation of delegated agents of other States and governments, each of which is superior to the general
government, it must have the power to protect the elections on which its existence depends from violence and
corruption.
"If it has not this power it is left helpless before the
two great natural andhistorical enemies of all republics,
open violence and insidious corruption."
And, answering the objection that the right to vote for
a member of Congress is not dependent upon the Constitution Or laws of the United States but is governed by
state law, the court further said (p. 663):
" If this were conceded, the importance to the general
government of having the actual election-the voting for
those members-free from force and fraud is not diminished by the circumstance that the qualification of the
voter is determined by the law of the State wherq he votes.
It equally affects the government, it is as indispensable to
the proper discharge of the great function of legislating

BURROUGHS
534

AND

CANNON v. U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

for that government, that those who are to control this
legislation shall not owe their election to bribery or violence, whether the class of persons who shall vote is determined by the law of the State, or by law of the United
States, or by their united result."
And finally (pp. 666-667):
"In a republican government, like ours, where political
power isreposed in representatives of the entire body of
the people, chosen at short intervals by popular elections,
the temptations to control these elections by violence and
by corruption is a constant source of danger.
"If the recurrence of such acts as these prisoners stand
convicted of are too common in one quarter of the country,
and give omen of danger from lawless violence, the free
use of money in elections, arising from the vast growth
of recent wealth in other quarters, presents equal cause for
anxiety.
"If the government of the United States has within its
constitutional domain no authority to provide against
these evils, if the very sources of power may be poisoned
by corruption or controlled by violence and outrage, without legal restraint, then, indeed, is the country in danger, and its best powers, its highest purposes, the hopes
which it inspires, and the love which enshrines it, are at
the mercy of the combinations of those who respect no
right but brute force, on the one hand, and unprincipled
corruptionists on the other."
These excerpts are enough to control the present case.
To pursue the subject further would be merely to repeat
their substance in other and less impressive words.
The power of Congress to protect the election of President and Vice President from corruption being clear, the
choice of means to that end presents a question primarily
addressed to the judgment of Congress. If it can be seen

548

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
MCREYNOLDS, J., dissenting.

290 U.S.

that the means adopted are really calculated to attain the
end, the degree of their necessity, the extent to which
they conduce to the end, the closeness of the relationship
between the means adopted and the end to be attained,
are matters for congressional determination alone. Stephenson v. Binford, 287 U.S. 251, 272. Congress reached
the conclusion that public disclosure of political contribution, together with the names of contributors and
other details, would tend to prevent the corrupt use of
money to affect elections. The verity of this conclusion
reasonably cannot be denied. When to this is added the
requirement contained in § 244 that the treasurer's statement shall include full particulars in respect of expenditures, it seems plain that the statute as a whole is calculated to discourage the making and use of contributions
for purposes of corruption.
The judgment of the court below will be affirmed in
respect of the ninth and tenth counts of the indictment
only, and the cause remanded to the supreme court of
the District for further proceedings in conformity with
this opinion.
Affirmed in Part.

Separate opinion of MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS.
To me it seems sufficiently clear that the trial judge
rightly sustained the demurrer to the entire indictment.
Since counts one to eight fail to charge any offense
under the statute, but are nevertheless incorporated by
reference in the conspiracy counts (nine and ten), we
must carefully consider the exact language by which the
latter undertake to describe the conspiracy.
Count Nine, with italics supplied, alleges:
And the grand jurors aforesaid, upon their oath aforesaid, do further present, that said Ada L. Burroughs and

BURROUGHS
534

AND

McREYNOLDS,

CANNON v. U.S.
J., dissenting.

James Cannon, jr. hereinafter called defendants, said
James Cannon, jr. throughout said period of time being
the chairman of said political committee, continuously
throughout said period of time, and while said Ada L.
Burroughs was such treasurer of said political committee
and said James Cannon, jr., was chairman thereof as
aforesaid, each of said defendants then well knowing all
the premises aforesaid, unlawfully and feloniously did
conspire, combine, confederate, and agree together, and
with divers other persons to said grand jurors unknowri,
to commit divers, to wit, four, offenses against the United
States, that is to say, the four willfully-committed offenses on the part of said Ada L. Burroughs, as treasurer
of said political committee, charged against her in the
first, third, fifth and seventh counts of this indictment,
the allegations of which said counts descriptive of said
offenses respectively, and of the circumstances and conditions under which they were so committed, are incorporated in this count, by reference to said first, third,
fifth, and seventh counts, as fully as if they were here
repeated.
Count Ten, with italics supplied, alleges:
And the grand jurors aforesaid, upon their oath aforesaid, do further present, that said Ada L. Burroughs and
James Cannon, jr., hereinafter called defendants, said
James Cannon, jr., throughout said period- of time being
the chairman of said political committee, continuously
throughout said period of time, and while said Ada L.
Burroughs was such treasurer of said political committee
and said James Cannon, jr., was chairman thereof as
aforesaid, each of said defendants then well knowing all
the premises aforesaid, unlawfully and feloniously did
conspire, combine, confederate and agree together, and
with divers other persons to said grand jurors unknown,

550

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
McREYNOLDS,

J., dissenting.

290 US.

to commit divers, to wit, four, other offenses against the
United States, that is to say, the four offenses on the part
of said Ada L. Burroughs, as treasurer of said political
committee, charged against her in the second, fourth,
sixth, and eighth counts of this indictment, the allegations
of which said counts descriptive of said offenses respectively, and of the circumstances and conditions under
which they were so committed, are incorporated in this
count, by reference to said second, fourth, sixth, and
eighth counts, as fully as if they were here repeated.
Interpreted with proper regard to the defendants'
rights, count nine, also count ten, undertakes to describe
a conspiracy to commit crimes said to be charged against
Burroughs in other counts. But this Court now affirms
that those counts fail adequately to specify any offense
whatsoever.
Thus, we have allegations of what are called conspiracies
to commit crimes which are nowhere adequately described. And I cannot think that such pleading should
find toleration in any criminal action.
An indictment ought to set out with fair certainty the
charge to which the accused must respond. If crime has
been committed, a fairly capable prosecuting officer can
definitely describe it.
Here, we have an example of what seems to me inordinate difficulty unnecessarily thrust upon the accused.
An experienced trial judge was unable to find proper description of crime in any of the ten counts of the indictment. The Court of Appeals, with a judge of long service
dissenting, ruled that every count was sufficient. This
Court, being divided, now declares eight of the counts
bad, but holds that two are sufficient.
Surely, such contrariety of opinion concerning allegations of the indictment indicates plainly enough that no
man should be required to go to trial under it.

