CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1933
MINNESOTA v. BLASIUS.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF MINNESOTA.

No. 7. Argued October 11, 1933.-Decided November 6, 1933.
1. When cattle, consigned from one State to a stock market in another
State, had reached that destination and been sold, and were being
held in the stockyard pens at the expense of the buyer and subject
to his free disposition, they had acquired a situs for local state
taxation as the buyer's property, though in the course of his business he was offering them for resale, in the same market, when
the tax was imposed, and sold them soon afterwards for interstate
consignment. Pp. 6, 12.
2. The existence of regulatory power in Congress over a current of
interstate commerce, including related local transactions in the
exchange markets through which the commerce flows, is not inconsistent with the imposition of non-discriminatory state taxes on
goods which, though connected with such current as a general
course of business, have come to rest in the State and are held
there at the pleasure of their owner, for disposal or use, when the
tax is imposed. Pp. 8, 10.
3. The crucial question in such cases is the continuity of transit.
This is always a question of substance; and in each casA it is
necessary to consider the particular occasion or purpose of the
interruption during which the tax is sought to be levied. P. 9.
187 Minn. 420; 245 N.W. 612, reversed.

The Supreme Court of Minnesota reversed a judgment
recovered by the State in an action to collect a tax on livestock. Certiorari was granted, 289 U.S. 717.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Argument for Respondent.

290 U.S.

Mr. Harry H. Peterson, Attorney General of Minnesota, and Mr. Harold E. Stassen, with whom Mr. William
S. Ervin, Assistant Attorney General, was on the brief,
for petitioner.
The cattle were at rest. The continuity of their interstate journey was broken and they were subject to the
taxing power of the State. Hughes Bros. Timber Co. v.
Minnesota, 272 U.S. 469; Missouri Pacific R. Co. v.
Schnipper, 51 F. (2d) 749; Brown v. Houston, 114 U.S.
622; Pittsburgh & Southern Coal Co. v. Bates, 156 U.S.
577; Diamond Match Co. v. Ontonagon, 188 U.S. 82;
American Steel & Wire Co. v. Speed, 192 U.S. 500; General Oil Co. v. Crain,209 U.S. 211. Cf. Carson Petroleum
Co. v. Vial, 279 U.S. 95; Gulf Refining Co. v. Phillips,
11 F. (2d) 967; Bacon v. Illinois, 227 U.S. 504; Susquehanna Coal Co. v. South Amboy, 228 U.S. 665; Myers v.
Baltimore Co., 83 Md. 385; State v. Burlington Lumber
Co., 118 Minn. 329. Distinguishing: Coe v. Errol, 116
U.S. 517; Kelley v. Rhoads, 188 U.S. 1; Champlain
Realty Co. v. Brattleboro, 260 U.S. 366; Hughes Bros.
Timber Co. v. Minnesota, 272 U.S. 469; Eureka Pipe Line
Co. v. Hallanan,257 U.S. 265.
Cases such as the Surift and Stafford cases which dealt
with the extent of the federal commerce power are not
applicable, since in this case we have to say whether a
given exercise of state power was such as to conflict with
the federal power. See Bacon v. Illinois, 227 U.S. 504.
Even if the cattle were in interstate commerce at the
time of the levy, the tax was valid; it was so indirect as
not to amount to a regulation of interstate commerce.
Mr. D. L. Grannis for respondent.
In the modern economic system, large central markets
for the sale. and purchase of livestock for slatighter or
feeding are essential both to the business of the large packing houses and to that of the dealers and traders in the

MINNESOTA v. BLASIUS.
1

Argument for Respondent.

East and Middle West who are continually purchasing
cattle from the Northwest.
When the producer consigns livestock to the St. Paul
stockyards, he does not intend, and there can be no intention, that the stockyards should be the final destination.
The cattle are sent there for the purpose of finding a
buyer, and then to be slaughtered or continued on their
journey. The very nature of livestock requires that its
journey from State to State be ihterrupted for feed and
water, which is a part of the service performed in the
stockyards.
The stockyards are operated by a public service corporation, which provides yard space for the persons doing
business therein, including the defendant. The defendant has no facilities for storing cattle indefinitely. Livestock may be kept in the yards for a short time; but in the
regular course of business the great portion of it is disposed of very quickly to give way to the thousands of head
arriving from day to day.
The detention of the cattle in the stockyards is similar
to the holding of the oil in the pipe lines in the case of
Eureka Pipe Line Co. v. Hallanan, 257 U.S. 265, and in
Carson.Petroleum Co. v. Vial, 279 U.S. 95; to the detention of the logs in Champlain Realty Co. v. Brattleboro,
260 U.S. 366; and of the sheep in the case of Kelley v.
Rhoads, 188 U.S. 1.
This Court has definitely indicated that cattle in the
stockyards are in interstate oommerce and are to be
regarded as in transit during their temporary detention
there. Stafford v. Wallace, 258 U.S. 495; Swift v. United
States, 196 U.S. 375; Hughes Bros. Timber Co. v. Minnesota, 272 U.S. 469.
If the cattle in the stockyards are to be regarded as in
interstate commerce for purposes of federal regulation,
they must necessarily be in interstate commerce for any
other purpose.

4

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Argument for Respondent.

290 U.S.

In Carson Petroleum Co. v. Vial, 279 U.S. 92, which
involved the validity of an ad valorem duty on oil imposed
by a State, the decision was based mainly on cases involving the power of the federal government over interstate
commerce, such as Texas & N. 0. R. Co. v. Sabine Tram
Co., 227 U.S. 111, and Railroad Commission v. Worthington, 225 U.S. 101. There is also definite language in both
the Swift and Stafford cases indicating that the cattle in
stockyards are not sufficiently at rest to subject them to
local taxation.
Bacon v. Illinois,227 U.S. 504, is distinguishable. Bacon
withdrew his grain from the flow of interstate commerce
for his own private benefit. In the case at bar the defendant, in the regular course of business, bought the cattle
for his own profit it is true, but also to facilitate their
interstate commerce journey. The fact that title passes
during the interstate journey does not necessarily deprive
the property of its interstate character. East Ohio Gas
Co. v. Tax Commission, 283 U.S. 465; Stafford v. Wallace, 258 U.S. 495; Eureka Pipe Line Co. v. Hallanan,
257 U.S. 265.
In American Steel & Wire Co. v. Speed, 192 U.S. 500,
the owner withdrew the goods from their interstate journey
for an indefinite period and put them in its own warehouses (leased) and for its own private benefit. Myers v.
Baltimore, 83 Md. 385, was decided by a state court forty
years ago, at a time when interstate traffic in livestock
had not reached its present magnitude.
In General Oil Co. v. Crain,209 U.S. 211, the Oil Company withdrew oil from its interstate commerce journey
and stored it in its own tank and for its own purposes in
conducting a local redistribution business. Its scope is
explained in Carson Petroleum Co. v. Vial, 279 U.S. 95.
The case of Susquehanna Coal Co. v. South Amboy, 228
U.S. 665, followed the Crain case, and the same principles
apply.

MINNESOTA v. BLASIUS.
Opinion of the Court.

If the cattle in this case were in interstate commerce,
the tax was a burden on such commerce. Hughes Bros.

Timber Co. v. Minnesota, 272 U.S. 469; Carson Petroleum
Co. v. Vial, 279 U.S. 95; Nashville, C. & St. L. Ry. Co. v.
Wallace, 288 U.S. 249.
MR. CIRF JUSTIc HUGHES delivered the opinion of

'le Court.
Respondent, George Blasius, is a trader in livestock at
the St. Paul Union Stockyards in South St. Paul, Minnesota. On May 1, 1929, he owned and had in his possession in these yards eleven head of cattle which were assessed for taxation as his personal property, under the gen,
eral tax law of the State. In this action, brought to collect the tax, Blasius defended upon the ground that the
cattle were in course of interstate commerce, and a part of
that commerce, and were not subject to state taxation.
The Supreme Court of the State, overruling the decision
of the trial court, sustained this defense, and this Court
granted certiorari. 187 Minn. 420; 245 N.W. 612; 289
U.S. 717.
The material facts, as found by the trial court, are
these: At the St. Paul Union Stockyards, thousands of
head of livestock arrive daily by railroad and truck and
are promptly sold and moved. The livestock comes from
the State of Minnesota and other States throughout the
northwest. The class of livestock which Blasius buys on
the market are those that go immediately thereafter into
the hands of feeders or growers within and without the
State of Minnesota and principally beyond the borders of
that State. He has not dealt in livestock for immediate
slaughter. Thus, it was the practice of Blasius to go
upon the market at the stockyards and buy livestock to
meet the requirements of his trade, and in the regular
course of his business practically all cattle purchased by
him were sold and shipped to non-residents of the State,

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

although selling and shipping to residents of tht State
did sometimes occur.
The eleven head of cattle in question came to the yards
from some point outside the State of Minnesota; they
had been consigned to commission firms for sale at the
South St. Paul market; the consignors "had no intent
to transport said cattle to any other place than South St.
Paul, nor did they have any intent that such cattle should
be transported to any particular place after their sale ";
they were bought by Blasius from the commission merchants on April 30,1929, and on May 1, 1929, the tax date,
they were owned by him and "had not been entered with
any carrier for shipment to any point," but were being
offered for sale on the market; seven of the eleven head
were sold on that day to a non-resident purchaser and
were immediately shipped by the purchaserto points outside the State of Minnesota;. the remaining four head
were similarly sold and shipped on the following day.
After his purchase Blasius placed the cattle in pens leased
by him from the stockyards company; he paid for their
feed and water up to the time of resale.
The court found that Blasius was not "subject to any
discrimination in favor of cattle solely the product of the
State of Minnesota "; that the assessment was made at
the regular time and in the usual manner for taxation
of personal property within the State; that the transportation of the cattle ceased after purchase from the commission men; that the cattle were not held by Blasius for
the purpose of promoting their safe or convenient transit
but were purchased and held by him because he desired
to make a profit at their resale; that they were held at
his pleasure and that he would sell to anyone, resident or
non-resident, who was the highest bidder; that Blasius
did not buy the cattle for the purpose of export or shipment to another State; and that after their purchase by
him, and until he resold, the cattle were "at absolute and

MINNESOTA v. BLASIUS.
I

Opinion of the Court.

complete rest in the yards at South St. Paul" and "were
a part of the general mass of cattle in the State and locally
owned." The court also found that the cattle were
"handled by the defendant as a part of the chain of title
from the original producer thereof to the final consumer
thereof," and that such handling Was "a necessary factor
in the center of chain of commerce from West to the East
and South."
The dealings at the South St. Paul stockyards including
the transactions of Blasius, as described in these findings,
manifestly were so related to a current of commerce among
the States as to be subject to the power of regulation
vested in the Congress. Applying the cardinal principle
that interstate commerce as contemplated by the Constitution "is not a technical legal conception, but a practical one, drawn from the course of business," this Court
said, in Suift & Co. v. United States, 196 U.S. 375, 398,
399: "When cattle are sent for sale from a place in one
State, with the expectation that they will end their transit,
after purchase, in another, and when in effect they do so,
with only the interruption necessary to find a purchaser at
the stock yards, and when this is a typical, constantly recurring course, the current thus existing is a current of
commerce among the States, and the purchase of the cattle
is a part and incident of such commerce." In that case, the
question was as to the reach of the federal power through
the prohibitions of the Anti-Trust Act of July 2, 1890 (26
Stat. 209), and these were held to apply to an attempt to
monopolize commerce among the States by "a combination of independent dealers to restrict the competition of
their agents when purchasing stock for them in the stockyards." On the same fundamental principle, the Court
sustained the Packers and Stockyards Act of 1921 (42
Stat. 159) providing for the supervision by federal authority of the business of commission men and livestock
dealers in the great stockyards of the country. Stafford v.

8

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

Wallace, 258 U.S. 495.' It was in deference to these decisions that the state court denied validity to the tax here
assailed. 187 Minn., p. 426.
But because there is a flow of interstate commerce which
is subject to the regulating power of the Congress, it does
not necessarily follow that, in the absence of a conflict
with the exercise of that power, a State may not lay a nondiscrinlinatory tax upon property which, although connected with that flow as a general course of bus'ness, has
come to rest and has acquired a situs within the State.
The distinction was recognized in Stafford v. Wallace,
supra, pp. 525, 526, where the Court cited, as an illustration, the case of Bacon v. Illinois, 227 U.S. 504, in which
such a non-discriminatory property tax was sustained.
And the Court in the Stafford case quoted from the
opinion in the Bacon case (supra, p. 516) the following
statement of the distinction: "The question" (that is, as
to the validity of the state tax) "it should be observed,
is not with respect to the extent of the power of Congress
to regulate interstate commerce, but whether a particular
exercise of state power in view of its nature and operation must be deemed to be in conflict with this paramount
authority."
The States may not impose direct burdens upon interstate commerce, that is, they may not regulate or restrain
that which from its nature should be under the control of
the one authority and be free from restriction save as it is
governed in the manner that the national legislature constitutionally ordains. This limitation applies to the exertion of the State's taxing power as well as to any other
interference by the State with the essential freedom of in1 See,

also, Eureka Pipe Line Co. v. Hallanan, 257 U.S. 265; United
Fuel Gas Co. v. Hallanan, 257 U.S. 277; Dahnke-Walker Milling
Co. v. Bondurant, 257 U.S. 282; Lemke v. Farmers Grain Co., 258
U.S. 50; Hill v. Wallace, 259 U.S. 44, 69; Board of Trade v. Olsen, 262
U.S. 1, 37, 38, 41.

MINNESOTA v. BLASIUS.

I

Opinion of the Court.

terstate commerce. Thus, the States cannot tax interstate
commerce, either by laying the tax upon the business
which constitutes such commerce or the privilege of engaging in it, or upon the receipts, as such, derived from it.2
Similarly, the States may not tax property in transit in
interstate commerce. 8 But, by reason of a break in the
transit, the property may come to rest within a State and
become subject to the power of the State to impose a nondiscriminatory property tax. Such an exertion of state
power belongs to that class of cases in which, by virtue of
the nature and importance of local concerns, the State
may act until Congress, if it has paramount authority over
the subject, substitutes its own regulation.' The "crucial
question," in determining whether the State's taxing
power may thus be exerted, is that of "continuity of
transit." Carson Petroleum Co. v. Vial, 279 U.S. 95, 101.
If the interstate movement has not begun, the mere
fact that such a movement is contemplated does not withdraw the property from the State's power to tax it. Coe
v. Errol, 116 U.S. 517; Diamond Match Co. v. Ontonagon,
188 U.S. 82. If the interstate movement has begun, it
may be regarded as continuing, so as to maintain the
immunity of the property from state taxation, despite
temporary interruptions due to the necessities of the journey or for the purpose of safety and convenience in the
'Robbins v. Shelby Taxing District, 120 U.S. 489; Fargo v. Michigan, 121 U.S. 230; Philadelphia & Southern Mail SS. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 122 U.S. 326; Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U.S. 352, 400;
Pullman Co. v. Richardson, 261 U.S. 330, 338; Sprout v. South Bend,
277 U.S. 163; New Jersey Telephone Co. v. Tax Board, 280 U.S. 338;
Anglo-Chilean Corp. v. Alabama, 288 U.S. 218.
'Coe v. Errol, 116 U.S. 517; Kelley v. Rhoads, 188 U.S. 1; Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U.S. 352, 400, 401; Eureka Pipe Line Co. v. Hallanan, 257 U.S. 265; United Fuel Gas Co. v. Hallanan, 257 U.S. 277;
Champlain Co. v. Brattleboro,260 U.S. 366; Hughes Bros. Co. v. Minnesota, 272 U.S. 469; Carson Petroleum Co. v. Vial, 279 U.S. 95.
'Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U.S. 352, 400, 402, et seq.

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

course of the movement. Coe v. Errol, supra; Kelley v.
Rhoads, 188 U.S. 1; Champlain Co. v. Brattleboro, 260

U.S. 366. Formalities, such as the forms of billing, and
mere changes in the method of transportation do not affect
the continuity of the transit. The question is always one
of substance, and in each case it is necessary to consider
the particular occasion or purpose of the interruption
during which (he tax is sought to be levied. Champlain
Co. v. Brattleboro, supra, p..377; Southern Pacific Terminal Co. v. Interstate Commerce Comm'n, 219 U.S. 498;
Texas & N. 0. R. Co. v. Sabine Tram Co., 227 U.S. 111;
Carson Petroleum Co. v. Vial, supra. The mere power of

the owner to divert the shipment already started does not
take it out of interstate commerce if it appears "that the
journey has already begun in good faith and temporary
interruption of the passage is reasonable and in furtherance of the intended transportation." Hughes Bros. Co.
v. Minnesota, 272 U.S. 469, 476.
Where property has come to rest within a State, being
held there at the pleasure of the owner, for disposal or
use, so that he may dispose of it either within the State, or
for shipment elsewhere, as his interest dictates, it is
deemed to be a part of the general mass of property within
the State and is thus subject to its taxing power. In
Brown v. Houston, 114 U.S. 622, coal mined in Pennsylvania and sent by water to New Orleans to be sold there
in the open market, was held to have " come to its place of
rest, for final disposal or use," and to be "a commodity
in the market of New Orleans," and thus to be subject to
taxation under the general laws of the State; although
the property might, iifter arrival, be sold from the vessel
on which the transportation was made for the purpose of
shipment to a foreign port. As the Court said in Champlain Co. v. Brattleboro,supra, p. 376, the coal in Brown

v. Houston " was being held for sale to anyone who might.

MINNESOTA v. BLASIUS.
1

Opinion of the Court.

wish to buy." A similar case is Pittsburgh& Southern
Coal Co. v. Bates, 156 U.S. 577. In General Oil Co. v.
Crain, 209 U.S. 211, the company conducted an oil business at Memphis where it gathered oil from the North
and maintained an establishment for its distribution.
Part of the, oil was deposited in a tank, appropriately
marked for distribution in smaller vessels in order to fill
orders fqr oil already sold in Arkansas, Louisiana and
Mississippi. The Court held that the first shipment had
ended, that the storage of the oil at Memphis for division
and distribution to various points was " for the business
purposes and profit of the company "; and that the tank
at Memphis had thus become a depot in its oil business for
preparing the oil for another interstate journey. This decision followed the principle announced in American Steel
& Wire Co. v. Speed, 192 U.S. 500. See Champlain Co. v.
Brattleboro,supra, p. 375; Atlantic Coast Line R. Co. v.
Standard Oil Co., 275 U.S. 257, 270; Carson Petroleum
Co. v. Vial, supra, pp. 104, 105.
In Bacon v. Illinois, supra, Bacon, the owner of the
grain and the taxpayer, had bought it in the South and
had secured the right from the railroads transporting it to
remove it to his private grain elevator for the purpose of
inspecting, weighing, grading, mixing, etc. He had power
to change its ownership, consignee or destination, or to
restore the grain, after the processes above mentioned, to
the carrier to be delivered at destination in another State
according to his original intention. The Court held that,
whatever his intention, the grain was at rest within his
complete power of disposition, and was taxable; that "it
was not being actually transported and it was not held by
carriers for transportation "; that the purpose of the withdrawal from the carriers "did not alter the fact that it
had ceased to be transported and had been placed in his
hands"; that he had " the privilege of continuing the

OCTOBER TERM, 1933.
Opinion of the Court.

290 U.S.

transportation under the shipping contracts, but of this
he might avail himself or not as he chose. He might sell
the grain in Illinois or forward it as he saw fit." What he
had done was to establish a "local facility in Chicago for
his "own benefit; and while, through its employment, the
grain was there at rest, there was no reason why it should
not be included with his other property within the State
in an assessment for taxation which was made in the usual
way without discrimination." Id., p. 516. In Champlain
Co. v. Brattleboro, supra, p. 375, the court thus restated
the point of the Bacon case: "His storing of the grain
was not to facilitate interstate shipment of the grain, or
save it from the danger of the journey." "He made his
warehouse a depot for its preparation for further shipment and sale. He had thus suspended the interstate
commerce journey and brought the grain within the taxable jurisdiction of the State." See, also, Susquehanna
Coal Co. v. South Amboy, 228 U.S. 665, 669, and Nashville, C. & St. L. R. Co. v. Wallace, 288 U.S. 249, 266.
The case of Blasius is a stronger one for the state tax
than that of Bacon. Here the original shipment was not
suspended; it was ended. That shipment was to the South
St. Paul stockyards for sale on that market. That transportation had ceased, and the cattle were sold on that
market to Blasius, who became absolute owner and was
free to deal with them as he liked. He could sell the cattle
within the State or for shipment outside the State. He
placed them in pens and cared for them awaiting such disposition as he might see fit to make for his own profit.
The tax was assessed on the regular tax dity while Blasius
thus owned and possessed them. The cattle were not held
by him for the purpose of promoting their safe or convenient transit. They were not in transit. Their situs was in
Minnesota where they had come to rest. There was no
federal right to immunity from the tax.
Judgment reversed.

