OPINIONS OF INDIVIDUAL JUSTICES
IN CHAMBERS

WILLIAMS v. MISSOURI
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY
No. A-1077.

Decided July 6, 1983

An application for a stay of execution pending timely filing and disposition
of a petition for certiorari is granted, where the execution is set for a
date before expiration of the period for applicant's filing a petition for
certiorari to review the Missouri Supreme Court's affumnce of his conviction and death sentence.

JUSTICE BLACKMUN,

Circuit Justice.

On May 31, 1983, the Supreme Court of Missouri affirmed
applicant Williams' conviction and death sentence. 652
S. W. 2d 102. It noted applicant's execution was set for July
15. On June 30, the Missouri Supreme Court denied applicant's timely motion for rehearing, and his motion requesting
that court to stay issuance of its mandate pending final disposition of a petition for certiorari in this Court. Under the
Rules of this Court, applicant has until August 29, 1983, to
file a petition for certiorari. He has applied to me for a stay
of execution pending timely filing and disposition of that
petition. The application is granted.
"[D]irect appeal is the primary avenue for review of a conviction or sentence." Barefoot v. Estelle, ante, at 887. If
a federal question is involved, the process of direct review
"includes the right to petition this Court for a writ of certiorari." Ibid. A stay of execution obviously is essential to
realization of this right if the execution otherwise would occur
prior to the expiration of a defendant's time to petition this
Court for direct review. The defendant must have at least
one opportunity to present to the full Court his claims that
1301

1302

OCTOBER TERM, 1982
Opinion in Chambers

463 U. S.

his death sentence has been imposed unconstitutionally.
For this reason, if a State schedules an execution to take
place before filing and disposition of a petition for certiorari,
I must stay that execution pending completion of direct review, as a matter of course.

