M. I. C., LTD. v. BEDFORD TOWNSHIP

1341

Opinion in Chambers

M. I. C., LTD., ET AL. v. BEDFORD TOWNSHIP
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY
No. A-147.

Decided September 13, 1983

An application by the owner and the operator of a drive-in theater to stay
the Michigan trial court's preliminary injunction-in respondent township's action for common-law nuisance based on applicants' recent exhibition of two allegedly obscene films-prohibiting them from showing
any films containing scenes of explicit sexual intercourse or other carnal
acts, is granted pending decision of their appeal in the Michigan courts.
Since it appears that appellate review of the preliminary injunction will
not be completed for several months, and since both the Michigan Court
of Appeals and the Michigan Supreme Court have refused to stay the injunction pending review, the First Amendment requirement that a State
provide procedures to assure a prompt final judicial decision as to the
validity of a prior restraint on protected speech has not been satisfied,
and thus the stay is warranted.
JUSTICE BRENNAN.

Applicants are the owner and operator of the West Point
Auto Theatre, located in the Township of Bedford, Mich.
They request that I issue a stay, pending decision of their
appeal in the Michigan courts, of a preliminary injunction
entered on May 23, 1983, by the Circuit Court for the County
of Calhoun, enjoining them from exhibiting allegedly obscene
films at the West Point Auto Theatre. 1
On April 29, 1983, Bedford Township brought this action
for common-law nuisance against applicants, seeking a preliminary injunction and claiming that the recent exhibition of
two allegedly obscene films at the drive-in theater had created a public nuisance. Following a hearing, the trial court
granted the Township's motion. The order, issued on May
23, 1983, enjoined applicants from displaying or projecting on
the screen of the West Point Auto Theatre any films containing scenes of explicit sexual intercourse or other carnal acts.
1

The application, initially directed to JUSTICE O'CONNOR as Circuit
Justice, was, because of her unavailability, referred to me.

OCTOBER TERM, 1982

Opinion in Chambers

463 U. S.

By its terms, the preliminary injunction was to continue in
effect until a full trial on the matter was held or until further
order of the court.
The next day, applicants appealed to the Michigan Court of
Appeals, seeking immediate consideration of their application for a stay pending appellate review of the trial court's
preliminary injunction. The Court of Appeals, on June 22,
1983, granted the motion for immediate consideration of the
stay application but declined to issue a stay of the trial court's
order. The court also directed that the case be placed on the
calendar of the October 1983 session for a hearing on the merits. Applicants then sought similar relief from the Michigan
Supreme Court, and, on August 16, 1983, that court denied
both their motion for review prior to consideration of the appeal by the Court of Appeals and for a stay of the preliminary
injunction. This application followed.
In support of their request for a stay, applicants principally
contend that the delay entailed in processing their appeal before the Michigan Court of Appeals-a delay that they allege
may extend up to six months -- violates the "procedural safeguards" that must attend the imposition by a State of a prior
restraint on protected speech. Freedmanv. Maryland, 380
U. S. 51, 58 (1965).
I recognize at the outset that there is a view that a Circuit
Justice generally has authority to issue a stay of a state-court
decision only where that decision is a "final judgment or decree" that is subject to review by this Court on writ of certiorari. 28 U. S. C. §§2101(f), 1257(3). The Michigan courts
can be expected ultimately to review the trial court's decision
and, in that sense, the judgment of the lower court is neither
the final decision in this matter, nor one rendered by the
State's highest court. But here, as in National Socialist
Party of America v. Village of Skokie, 432 U. S. 43, 44
2This estimate of the appellate timetable is supported by an affidavit
submitted by applicants, which respondent has not directly contradicted or
refuted.

M. I. C., LTD. v. BEDFORD TOWNSHIP

1341

Opinion in Chambers

(1977), and Nebraska Press Assn. v. Stuart, 423 U. S. 1327,
1329-1330 (1975) (BLACKMUN, J., in chambers), the State's
highest court has refused either to lift the challenged restraint or to provide for immediate appellate review. Such a
failure indicates that the state court has decided finally to
maintain the restraint in effect during the pendency of review. In this situation, I have no doubt that a Justice of this
Court has full power to issue a stay.
Faced with situations similar to that presented here, this
Court has repeatedly required that when a State undertakes
to shield the public from certain kinds of expression it has
labeled as offensive, it must "provide strict procedural safeguards including immediate appellate review. Absent such
review, the State must instead allow a stay." National
SocialistParty of America v. Village of Skokie, supra, at 44
(citations omitted). See also Freedmanv. Maryland,supra,
at 59; Southeastern Promotions, Ltd. v. Conrad, 420 U. S.
546, 560-562 (1975); Vance v. UniversalAmusement Co., 445
U. S. 308, 316-317 (1980); Nebraska Press Assn. v. Stuart,
supra,at 1328-1330 (BLACKMUN, J., in chambers).
In this case it appears that in all likelihood appellate review
of the preliminary injunction will not be completed for
several months. During that time, the trial court's broad
proscription will bar, in advance of any final judicial determination that the suppressed films are obscene, the exhibition of any fim that might offend the court's ban. Because
of the delay involved, this prohibition will remain in effect for
a considerable period without any final judicial review of the
trial court's order. In these circumstances, the requirement
imposed by the First Amendment that a State provide procedures to "assure a prompt final judicial decision," Freedman
v. Maryland, supra, at 59, has not been satisfied.
Accordingly, I will grant a stay of the preliminary injunction entered by the trial court on May 23, 1983, and amended
on August 15, 1983, pending the disposition of applicants'
appeal by the Michigan courts.

