RUTHERFORD V. GEDDES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

The heirs of Harrell, by means of the Cherokee treaty, had
a claim to two quarter sections of land in Arkansas. If they
furnished proof to the register and receiver of the proper
land office of the settlement and removal of their father, and
it was accepted and the claim allowed, then they had an equal
right to purchase the lands in question with this claim as
with money. The claim was allowed, the selections made,
and a certificate of entry given, and it was their duty to see
that the taxes were paid. It is true, that the entry might be
set aside at Washington; but this condition attaches to all
entries of the public lands.
They took upon themselves the risk of confirmation, and
perilled their title when they suffered the lands to be sold
for non-payment of taxes. It does not appeal from the
record why the patent was so long delayed; but the claim
was finally approved on the original proofs, and the patent,
when issued, related back to the original entry. The lands
were, therefore, under the laws of the State, properly chargeable with taxes from the date of the first entry, in 1830.

The judgment of the Supreme Court of Arkansas is
AFFIRMED.

IRUTXERFORD

v.

GEDDES.

1. Depositions cannot be used on the trial of a suit in admiralty, which were
taken in another suit concerning the same subject-matter, where the
party against whom they are offered was not a party to the suit in
which they were taken, nor privy to any such party, and had no right
to cross-examine the witnesses.
2. Nor can depositions be read in admiralty any more than at common law,
without some sufficient reason being shown why the witness was not
produced at the hearing.
APPEAL from a decree in admiralty rendered by the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana.
The appellant, Rutherford, was, in 1850, the owner of the
steam propeller Stanton, and had put her in charge of the

Dec. 1866.]

RUTHERFORD V. GEDDES.

Statement of the case.

towboat Diana, which was to tow her to sea from New Orleans. The Diana proceeded down the Mississippi with her
tow, the Stanton, and on the 23d of January a collision took
place between the Diana and the steamship Ohio, coming
up the river. The Stanton was struck and sunk, and the
Diana greatly injured.
Immediately afterwards, Rutherford, as owner of the Stanton, and the Independent Towboat Company, as owner of
the Diana, brought suit in the District Court for the Eastern
District of Louisiana, against the Ohio, to recover damages,
but in both failed to recover.
At a later date, to wit, in 1854, Rutherford instituted suit
in the same court against the Towboat Company, asserting
that the collision had been caused by the mismanagement
of the towboat.
When the case was at issue, the libellant offered as his
principal testimony the depositions taken on behalf of the
Oho, in 1850, in the two suits of the libellant, Rutherford,
and the Towboat Company against the Ohio; the testimony
by the weight of which the District Court decided the two
cases in favor of the Ohio. The testimony was objected to
by the present respondents, on the ground that they "were
not parties to the suit between the libellant Rutherford and
the Ohio, and that the libellant herein was not a party to
the suit between the Towboat Company and the Ohio." The
testimony was received by the District Court. On appeal to
the Circuit Court it was rejected; and there not being otherwise, as that court thought, any sufficient evidence of fault
on the part of the Diana, the libel was dismissed.
The only question of law considered on review in this
court was whether the depositions originally taken, in 1850,
on behalf of the Ohio, to show that the collision was attributable to the bad management of the towboat, was properly
excluded in the present suit.
It was not shown that effort had been made to procure
the attendance or direct testimony of the witnesses, or that
they were either dead or absent.
The court below said: "Depositions taken in one cause

222

R UTHERFORD

v.

GEDDES.

[-Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

may sometimes be used as evidence in another, but it is
only under special and particular circumstances. In every
case such evidence is regarded as secondary evidence, and
its introduction must be preceded by proof to show that the
primary evidence could not be procured. It is a general
rule that evidence which a witness has given on a trial between parties, is admissible upon the same subject-matter
between the same parties on a subsequent trial, if the witness has died in the interim; or if he has gone abroad and
has not returned. It is in general essential that the party
to be affected by the evidence of.depositions, or some person
in privity with him, should have had an opportunity of crossexamining the witnesses with reference to the subject-matter.
The rule of the common law is, that no evidence shall be
admitted but what is or might be under the examination of
both parties.*
"It is to be observed that no evidence was given to show
that any of these witnesses were dead, or that there was any
impediment to their examination in this case. In the case of
_uthe)ford v. The Ohio, the defendants were not parties, and
had no power to examine in that particular case; and in the
case of the Towboat Company v. The Ohio, the libellant was
no party, and the defendants, though interested in that suit
as members of the company, yet were so in a different character from that in which they are parties here.
"But the rule is well established that the cause in which
the depositions were taken, must be between the same parties or persons, claiming in privity with them, to authorize
their admission in another suit; and that the right to use
them must be reciprocal, or neither can claim it. It cannot
be asserted that the depositions in the case of the Towboat
Company against the Ohio may be used against the libellant
in this cause. In Goodenough v. Alway,t Sir John Leach refused an order to allow depositions in a suit for tithes to be
read in a tithe suit against other occupiers of land in the
same parish, though the objects of both suits, and the inter* 2 :Phillips on Evidence, 88.

t] 2 Simons & Stuart, 481.

Dec. 1866.]

RUTHERFORD V. GEDDES.
Opinion of the court.
j

ests of the parties were the same. In COzenave v. Vaughan,*
tord Ellenborough said: ' The rule of the common law is,
that no evidence shall be admitted but what is or might be
under the examination of both parties.' This precise question arose in the case of Bulshzworth v. The Countess of Fernbrolce,t where the defendant sought to introduce the depositions taken in a cause to which she was not a party. The
court was of opinion-' That the former depositions could
not be used, because the countess was not a party to that
suit; and as they could not be read against her, no more
could they be read for her; and because she was not bound
by them, not having been a party to the suit; nor was she
in a capacity of examining any witness in it, or preferring
interrogatories in it; for that reason, also, she could not
make use of the depositions of any that had been witness to
it.' The American cases go to the length of those that I
have cited: Earringtonv. Harrington,2 Howard's Missouri,
701; lBoudereau v. Montgomery, 4 Washington, 186; Eeth
v. Youing, 11 B. Monroe, 278; Sheridan v. Smith, 2 Hill's
N. Y. 538.
"In the case last cited testimony delivered in another
cause by a witness called by one of the parties, and when
that party was present and expressed no dissent to the statements, was held to be inadmissible. Mly conclusion is, that
all the depositions taken in the cases before mentioned, and
used as evidence in this by the libellant against the objections of the defendants, were improperly admitted, and that
the exception of the defendants was well taken."
The case was submitted by -Mr. Reverdy Johnson, for the
appellant _utherford, and by lr. Janin, contra.
Mr. Justice MMhLEIR delivered the opinion of the court.
On the trial of this case in the District Court the libellant
procured a decree in his favor mainly upon testimony found
in certain depositions offered by him. To the admission of
*. I Aaull & Selwyn, 4

t Hardres, 472.

224

EVANS

v.

PATTERSON.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

these depositions in evidence, the defendants objected, and
when the objection was overruled they carried the case by
appeal to the Circuit Court.
The Circuit Court excluded the depositions, and if the
action of that court was correct in this respect, there can be
no doubt that its decree dismissing the libel was the necessary result of the case as it stood on the remaining testimony.
The depositions relied on by appellant were properly ruled
out, for the reason that they were taken without notice to
defendants, in another suit to which defendants were not
parties, and in which they had no right or opportunity to
cross-examine the witnesses. Ior were defendants in any
manner privies to either party in the former suit, in which
the depositions had been taken. This alone, it is well settled, is a sufficient reason for their exclusion.
But when, to this consideration, it is added, that no reason
is shown why the witnesses were not introduced in person,
it is quite clear that the Circuit Court was right in rejecting
the depositions.
The decree of the Circuit Court dismissing the libel is,
therefore,
AFFIRIIED.

EVANS V. PATTERSON.
1. The court reproves the practice of making bills of exception a sort of abstract or index to the history of the case, and so of obscuring its merits.
2. Where a party claiming land as owner, under the laws of Pennsylvania,
brings ejectment in the name of the original warrantee, and recovers,
against a father; and subsequently producing a deed-poll from the warrantee, made previously to the date of the ejectment and deraigning title
to himself, brings another ejeetment in his own name against a son, who
on his father's death kept possession of the same land: such two suits
are an estoppel and within the act of Assembly of Pennsylvania, of the
18th of April. 1807, which declares that "where two verdicts shall, in
any suit of ejcetment between the same parties, be given in succession,
for the plaintiff or defendant, and judgment be rendered thereon, nc
new ejeetment shall be brought."

