LANFEAR V. ]RUNLEY.

[Sup. Ct

Syllabus.

tencies-as where States have adopted the same statutes, and
their courts differ in the construction. -Yet that course is
necessarily indicated by the duty imposed upon us, to administer, as between certain individuals, the laws of the respective States, according to the best lights we possess of
what those laws are."
In construing the fourth article cited from the colonization law of Mexico, the Supreme Court of Texas has repeatedly held that it operated as a prohibition of any grant
of land within the littoral or coast leagues mentioned,
without the previous assent of the federal executive of
Mexico; that such assent was essential to the validity of a
grant within those limits, and that such assent was not to
be inferred from the existence of the grant, but must be
affirmatively established. A series of decisions to this purport, from an early history of the State down to the present
time, is found in the reports of her courts. These decisions
have become a rule of property in that State, any departure
from which would disturb titles to extensive and densely
settled districts of country.* We receive them, therefore,
to quote the language of this court, in League v. Egery, "as
having a binding force almost equivalent to positive law."t
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

LANFEAR V. HUNLEY.
1. The act of Congress of August 16th, 1856, confirming claims in favor of

Ambrose Lanfear, confirmed to him whatever he was entitled to by
virtue of the original grant referred to in it, conceding that to have
been valid. It neither enlarged nor diminished what the grant gave.
It extinguished all claim on the part of the United States to the land
covered by the surveys; but as regards adverse claimants, it determined
nothing, and concluded no otle.
* Goode v. McQueen's Heirs, 3 Texas, 241; Edwards v. Davis, Id. 321;
Smith v. Power, 23 Id. 32.
- 24 Howard, 266.

:Dec. 1866.]

LANFEAR V. HUNLEY.
Statement of the case.

2. The twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act does not warrant the review
of an adjudication upon a mere question of boundary; the fact that the
land to which the boundary relates is held by a title derived from an
act of Congress does'not change the result. If the title be admitted as
rec6gnized by the act, its location upon the land is a subject wholly
within the cognizance of the State tribunals, and it is not within the
power of this court to reverse their action. In such cases its authority
is limited to errors relating to the title.

Tnis case was brought here by writ of error to the Supreme Court of Louisiana. The case was thus:
Lanfear brought suit against ilunley in a State District
Court of Louisiana, to recover the possession of certain land
occupied and claimed by Hunley as his own. The plaintiff
relied on a title derived from a Spanish grant in early times
to Paul Toups, and subsequently confirmed, as he alleged,
by acts of Congress in 1807, 1814, 1820, and with greater*
particularity by an act of August 18th, 1856, to the children of Toups, and to a certain Daspit St. Amand through
whom he claimed. Toups's petition was made in 1795, and
was for
"A grant of land on the place called 'Les Coteaux de France,'
at a distance of about eleven leagues from the capital, and about
three and a half leagues from the river, on the other bank,
reaching to a bayou named Crocodile, which runs parhllel with
the river, and the said land to be taken from the crossing of
said bayou as far as the large swamp on the other side of Bayou
des Cannes-the whole forming a strip of land about sixteen or
eighteen arpents wide, and about two leagues and a half longbounded on one side by floating prairies and on the other by
lakes and marshes."
The land was granted as prayed for. But there having
been, as the plaintiff alleged, several bayous in that neighborhood named in former times Bayou Crocodile, though
with one exception no longer now so named, the question as
to the line to which the land extended-a question of boundary alone-became a disputed one.
The first act of Congress, that of 1807, relied on as confirming the claim as set up by Lanfear, the plaintiff, was a

LANFEAR V. HUNLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

general act, authorizing commissioners to pass on claims fo
lands granted prior to 1803, limiting such grant to 2000
acres, and leaving locations to be determined. Nor was
there anything of a particular kind in the act of 1814, or
that of 1820. In 1854, Hawke, a deputy surveyor of the
United States, made a survey of the land granted to Toups
and confirmed to his children, and so surveyed it as to cover
the lands of the defendant, now in dispute, and on the 18th
August, 1856, Congress, referring specifically to the survey
as made by Ilawhe, declared the same "confirmed" in favor
of Lanfear. The act contained these provisos:
",Provided,that such confirmation shall only be construed into
a relinquishment of title on the part of the United States, and
shall not affect the rights of any third persons claiming title,
either under adverse title or as preemptor; And providedfurther,
that any person or persons, who are now settled on said lands, or
any portion of the lands embraced in the sdaid surveys, shall be entitled to have and maintain an action to test the validity of said surveys, and the extent of the said claims of the children of Paul
Toups and of Daspit St. Amand, numbers 74 and 529, and to
have the same determined judicially, in the same manner as
though the land on which they are settled had been surveyed
as public land, and they had been permitted to enter the same
by way of predmption, it being the true intent and meaning of
this act that no person who would be now entitled to a right
of premption to any part of said land, if the same were the
property of the United States, shall be deprived of the same,
unless it is judicially decided that the surveys were made in
conformity with the legal rights of said Ambrose Lanfear, under
the said confirmation."
The State court in which the suit was brought decided
against the plaintiff. and the Supreme Court of Louisiana
having confirmed that judgment, the case came here for reexamination under the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary
Act, which provides that a final judgment in the highest
court of a State--where is drawn in question the validity of
a treaty or statute of, or an authority exercised under the
United States, and the decision is against that validity, or

Dec. 1866.]

LANFEAR V. HUNLEY.
Opinion of the court.

where is drawn in question the construction of any statute
of the United States, and the decision is against the right
specially set up or claimed by either party under such statute-may be re-examined in this court; enacting further,
however, that no other error shall be assigned or regarded
as ground of reversal than such as immediately respects the
before-mentioned questions of validity or construction.
A7llessrs. -.1. Blair and . A. Dick, for the plaintiff in error,
and .fr. A. G. Riddle, contra, argued the case on its merits.
-.l1r. Janin, for the defendant in error, asked to have the
case dismissed for want of jurisdiction. Against the right
to take the jurisdiction, he said that the act of August 18tb,
1856, was the only one which defined the claim in language
less vague than the original grant; that the act of 1856,
which did define it, referred it to the courts to settle the
location of the survey, and what land really passed under
the confirmation; that the courts of Louisiana had settled
that and nothing else; and that this was not a subject for
review. Hence that the writ could not be entertained.
Mr. Justice SWAY=3
delivered the opinion of the court.
We are met at the threshold of the investigation by the
proposition, on the part of the defendant in error, that this
court has no jurisdiction of the controversy between the
parties, and that the case must be dismissed.
The defendant in error holds the lands in controversy
by the right of preemption, under the laws of the United
States; and it is admitted that his title is valid and must
prevail, unless his adversary has proved a better one. The
plaintiff in error insists that such a title is shown in the
record,-by a grant from the government of Spain to Paul
Toups, in 1796, confirmed by the acts of Congress of the
3d of March, 1807, of the 12th of April, 1814, of the 11th
of May, 1820, and especially by the act of the 18th of
August, 1856.
1Wone of these acts, except the one last mentioned, at-

LANFEAR V. HUNLEY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

tempted to fix definitely the locality and boundaries of the
grant. That act refers to surveys made by llawke, in 1854,
and confirms them. The plaintiff in error claims according
to these surveys. They include the land in controversy.
But the confirmation by this act was accompanied by important conditions.
[The learned judge here read the provisos as given, supra,
p. 206, in the statement of the case.]
These provisos expressly save the rights, whatever they
may be, of the defendant in error.
The act, considered in its entirety, confirmed to the plaintiff whatever he was entitled to by virtue of the original
grant, conceding that to have been valid. It neither enlarges nor diminishes what the grant gave him. It extinguishes all claim, on the part of the United States, to the
land covered by the surveys; but as regards all adverse
claimants, it determines nothing, and concludes no one. It
gives to the settlers upon the land, in express terms, the
right to institute and maintain the litigation necessary to
enable them to test the validity of the surveys. It leaves
adverse claimants otherwise where they were before Congress legislated upon the subject, and in all respects as if
this act had not been passed.
The defendant in error does not deny that a grant was
made as alleged by the plaintiff in error, nor that it was
confirmed by Congress; but he denies that its boundaries
were properly defined by the surveys of Hlawke; and he
asserts, that if properly located it will not include the land
in dispute. The plaintiff in error insists that these surveys
conformed to the grant, and that they are made conclusive
by the act of 185.
The Supreme Court of Louisiana gave to this act the same
construction which we have given, and proceeded to settle
the rights of the parties according to the evidence.
The controversy in that court turned wholly upon the
question of the locality of the eastern boundary of the grant.
The plaintiff contended that it was a line eighty arpens from
the west bank of the Mississippi IRiver. The defendant al-

Dec. 1866.]

LANFEAR V. HUNTLEY.
Opinion of the court.

leged that it was the Bayou Crocodile. If the plaintiff's
claim prevailed, the tract would include the land in controversy; if the defendant's, the opposite result would follow.
The court, after an elaborate examination of the subject,
sustained the theory of the defendant, and gave judgment
accordingly.
Has this court jurisdiction to examine the grounds of this
decision ?
The case is brought here under the twenty-fifth section
of the Judiciary Act of 1789. Our authority is derived from
and limited by that section. This court has repeatedly held,
that it does not warrant the review of an adjudication upon
a mere question of boundary. The fact that the land to
which the boundary relates is held by a title derived from
an act of Congress does not change the result. If the title
be admitted as recognized by the act, its location upon the
land is a subject wholly within the cognizance of.the State
tribunals, and it is not within the power of this court to
revise their action. In such cases our authority is limited
to errors relating to the title. If any such are committed, it
is our duty to correct them. If there are none, we have no
more authority to interpose than in any other case of alleged
maladministration of justice by a State court. A party cannot, by setting up an unfounded claim of title, compel us,
after deciding the claim against him, to take to ourselves a
jurisdiction which, but for such claim, we could not have
exercised. Such a result would make the jurisdiction depend, not upon the nature and merits of the case, but upon
what the party may choose to allege. In this way, in every
case where the title is derived from the United States, and
a question of boundary is involved, this court might be constrained to do what it has uniformly held to be beyond the
sphere of its power.
In the case before us, the Supreme Court of Louisiana
construed correctly the several acts of Congress relating to
the subject of the controversy. No greater or different effect
would have been given to them here .if the case had been
brought before us by appeal from a Circuit Court of the
VOL. Iv.

14

WITHEIISPOON

V.

DUNCAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

lUinited States. Full effect was given to the title. The error,
if any were committed, was in locating it upon the land,
and fixing its boundaries. In the performance of this function by that court, no treaty, act of Congress, or authority
exercised under the United States, was drawn in question.
We cannot, therefore, review the conclusions at which the
court arrived.* The section referred to in express terms
forbids it.
The decision having been correct upon the only question
before us for consideration, the judgment below is
A 'TIRMED.

WITHERSPOON V. DUNCAN.
1. The different States, as a general rule, have the right of determining the
manner of levying and collecting taxes on private property within their
limits; and can declare that a tract of land shall be chargeable with
taxes, no matter who is the owner, or in whose name it is assessed and
advertised ; and that an erroneous assessment does not vitiate the sale
for taxes.
2. Lands originally public cease to be public after they have been entered
at the land office, and a certificate of entry has been obtained.
3. Lands so entered are liable to taxation; and if the taxes remain unpaid,
they may be sold like other lands, even though no patent may as yet
have issued.
4. The right to tax attaches as well to donation entries as to cash entries;
the particular land in either case, when the entry is made and certificate
given, being segregated from the mass of public lands, and becoming
private property.
ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of Arkansas;
the case, as stated by the learned justice who gave the
opinion of the court, being thus:
The State of Arkansas, on her admission into the Union,
made a compact with the General Government not to tax
the public lands within the State, nor interfere with their
primary disposal by the United States, or with the regula* McDonough v. Millandon, 3 Howard, 707; Doe v. Esclava, 9 Id. 448.

