PEOPLE v.

THiE COMMISSIONERS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

issued as writs of fier facias are on judgments obtained
through the usual methods of the common law.
The judgment of the court below is
AFFIRMED WITI

COSTS.

PEOPLE V. THE COMMISSIONERS.
1. Shares in banks, whether State banks or those organized under the act
of June 3d, 1864, "to provide a national currency," &c., are liable to
taxation by the State under certain limitations (set forth in section
forty-first of the act), without regard to the fact that the capital of such
banks is invested in bonds of the United States, declared, by statutes
creating them, to be exempted from taxation by or under State authority. Van Allen v. Thie Assessors,* affirmed.
2. If the rate of taxation by the State on such shares is the same as, or not
greater, than upon the moneyed capital of the individual citizen which
is subject or liable to taxation; that is to say, if no greater proportion
or percentage of tax on the valuation of the shares is levied than upon
other moneyed taxable capital in the hands of its citizens, the shares
are taxed in conformity with that proviso of the forty-first section,
which says that they may be assessed, "but not at a greater rate than
is assessed upon other moneyed capital in the hands of individual citizens of such State."

TIHESE were two cases which arose upon a certiorari,pros-

ecuted, the one by Denning Duer, as relator, the other by
Ralph Mead, in the same way, out of the Supreme Court of
the State of New York, and directed to the Commissioners
of Taxes and Assessments for the City and County of New
York, the defendants in error. The relator in the first
ease was a holder of certain shares of stock in the National
Bank of Commerce in New York, a banking association
organized under the iNational Bank Law. The relator in
the second case held certain shares in the Corn Exchange
Bank, in the city of New York, incorporated under the laws
of the State. These shares, in both banks, had been assessed
in the year 1866, for the purposes of taxation under the
*

3 Wallace, 573.

Dec. 1866.]

PEOPLE v. THE Co3nMissloNxrs.

245

Statement of the case.
State laws, by the commissioners, as personal property of
the relator, in the place in which the banks were located.
In justification of their proceedings the commissioners
relied upon:
First. The enactments, in the form of provisos, in the
forty-first section of the National Bank Law, passed June
3d, 1864,* in these words:
"Provided, That nothing in this act shall be construed to prevent all the shares in any of the said associations, held by any
person or body corporate, from being included in the valuation
of the personal property of such person or corporation in the
assessment of taxes imposed, by or under State authority, at
the place where such bank is located, and not elsewhere; but not
at a greaterrate than is assessed upon other moneyed capital in the
hands of individual citizens of such State.
"Provided further, That the tax so- imposed under the laws
of any State upon the shares of any of the associations authorized by this act, shall not exceed the rate imposed upon the
shares in any of the banks organized under authority of the
State where such association is located."
Secondly. An act of the State of New York, passed April
23d, 1866,t in these words:
"SECTION 1. No tax shall hereafter be assessed upon the capital of any bank or banking association organized under the
authority of this State or of the United States; but the stockholders in such banks and banking associations shall be assessed
and taxed on the value of their shares of stock therein; said
shares shall be included in the valuation of the personal property of such stockholder in the assessment of taxes at the place,
town, or ward where such bank or banking association is located,
and not elsewhere, whether the said stockholder reside in said
place, town, or ward, or not; but not at a greater rate than is assessed upon other moneyed capital in the hands of individuals in this
State."
The case was heard by the Supreme Court of New York,
13 Stat. at Large, 99.
t Laws of New York, for 1866, vol. 2, p. 1647.

PEOPLE v. THE

OommISSIONEIRS.

[sup. Ct.

Argument for the plaintiffs in error.

on the return of the commissioners, as upon a demurrer
thereto. The return stated that the commissioners did assess
the relator .upon the value of said shares, and included the
same in the valuation of his personal estate.
That they made no allowance or deduction on account of
investments by the bank in any securities of the United
States.
That such a deduction or allowance was made in assessments
upon insurance companies and individuals.
The Supreme Court gave judgment for the commissioners,
which judgment the Court of Appeals affirmed.
The cases were now here for review, under the twentyfifth section of the Judiciary Act; two questions, among
others brought up but not considered by this court, being:
1. Whether the New York statute, of 23d April, 1866,
was valid so far as it attempts to authorize the taxation of
bank shares where the capital of such bank is invested in
United States securities, exempt from taxation under the
acts of Congress? a question argued separately in respect to
State banks, and to those organized under national laws.
2. Whether the taxation of the shares of the several relators was not invalid, for the reason that an illegal discrimination was made in favor of other State corporations and
individuals, citizens of said State?
Besides the two cases reported by name here, there were
eight or ten cases in substance very similar to them, the
cases being represented by different counsel.
The various relators, plaintiffs in error, were represented
by Messrs. W. 1. Evarts, B. D. Silliman, J. E. Burrill, and
. S. Van Winkle.
On the other side were, Messrs. C. O'Connor, A. . Parker,
B. O' Gorman, and TV. lutchins.
For the relators,plaintiffs in error:
I. The case of Van Allen v. The Assessors,* adjudged, in
fact, no more than that, under the legislation of New York,
* 3 Wallace, 573.

Dec. 1866.]

PEOPLE V. THE ComMIiSSioiNERS.

247

Argument for the plaintiffs in error.

as then existing, a tax could not be laid on shares in the
national banks. That was the point of the case. Whether
such an act as that passed 23d April, 1860, would be valid
so far as it taxed bank shares, where the capital of the banks
was invested in Federal securities, was not a question necessarily in the case.
[The counsel then proceeded to discuss at large the first
question as related to national banks, upon the assumption
that this question was still open in this court for discussion.]
1T. There is no act of CoDgress authorizing the taxation
of shares of State banks whose capital is invested in United
States securities, and the State, in asserting its right to tax
such shares, cannot invoke any power or authority from
Congress, but must maintain such right as one of State
sovereignty. It is evident from the opinions in Van Allen v.
The Assessors, that the court, in sustaining the assessment
and the State law under which it was made, place its judgment upon the proviso in the forty-first section of the act
of Congress.
A question is now presented, whether, in the absence of
any act of Congress authorizing the taxation of the shares
of STATE banks, whose capital is invested in government securities, such taxation by the State can be supported.
On this point we submit:
1. The United States securities, in which the capital of
the Corn Exchange Bank, which is a State bank, is invested,
are included within the provision of the act of Congress, that
such securities, "whether held by individuals, corporations,
or associations, shall be exempt from taxation by or under
State authority."*
2. It is settled, in adjudications of the Supreme Court of
the United States, that the capital of such bank cannot be
taxed upon any measure or computation of it which includes
the investment in these United States securities, thus exempt
by law from State taxation.t
*

13 Stat. at Large, 346.

t Bank of Commerce v. Commissioners, 2 Black, 620; Bank Tax Case,

2 Wallace, 200.

PEOPLE V. THE COMMISSIONERS.

[Slip. Cth

Argument for the plaintiffs in error.

3. It is also adjudicated by the Supreme Court of the
United States, upon a unanimous judgment of that court,
that a tax, incompetent to State authority when assessed to
the corporation or association as owner, and upon its capital
in bulk, is equally incompetent to State authority when assessed to the shareholder as owner, and upon his shares.*
4. The tax complained of by the relators, depending for
its validity, as it does, upon the mere vigor of the legislation
of the State of New York, and being without aid from any
legislation or permission of Congress, is necessarily invalid
as respects the investment of the bank, in United States
securities, exempt from taxation.
Ill. In making the assessment, the commissioners discriminated against the shareholders of national banks, and
in favor of insurance companies and individuals, by refusing
to make to the former the same allowance which is made to
the latter on account of investments in United States securities, and have thus assessed "such shareholders at a greater
rate than is assessed upon other moneyed capital in the
hands of individual citizens," in violation of the act of Congress above referred to.
The only permissive legislation of Congress touching the
subject of State taxation of the shares of national banks is
found in the forty-first section of the National Currency Act
of June 3d, 1864.
And the only permissive State legislation touching the
taxation of shares of State banks is the act of April 23d,
1866, and by each of said acts it is provided that such taxation shall not be "at a greater rate than is assessed upon
other moneyed capital in the hands of individual citizens of
such State."
The two provisos of the forty-first section of the act of June
3d, 1864, respectively refer to different subjects.
The first relates to the valwution at which the shares shall
be assessed; and provides that it shall not exceed the rate
of valuation at which other moneyed capital in the hands of
individuals shall be assessed.
* Van Allen v. The Assessors, 3 Wallace, 573.

Dec. 1866.]

PEOPLE V. THuE COMMISSIONERS.

249

Argument for the plaintiffs in error.

The second refers to the rate at which taxes shall be imposed on such valuation, after such assessment has been
made, and provides that such taxes shall not exceed in rate,
or percentage, that imposed on shares in State banks.
The question in this case is not as to any rate, or percentage, at which taxes have been imposed, but as to the
rate or value at which the shares have been assessed.
The assessment of the shares held by the relator in the
Bank of Gommerce was invalid, because they were assessed
at a greater rate than was assessed on the shares in insurance companies, and at a greater rate than was assessed on
the capital of insurance companies; and hence were assessed
at a greater rate than "other moneyed capital, in the hands
of individual citizens" of New York.
Insurance companies incorporated under the laws of New
York are moneyed corporations.* Such companies by the
laws of New York are subject to taxation on their capital.t
But they were assessed, and could legally be assessed, only
upon the balance or residue of their capital and surplus
profits, after deducting therefrom the amount of bonds and
other securities of the United States held by them.T
Insurance companies in New York are subject to taxation
on their capital, and the owners of stock in such companies
are consequently exempt from taxation thereon. The stock
so held by them, therefore, could not, under the laws of
New York, be included in the valuation of their personal
property in the assessment of taxes imposed by or under
State authority. It is no answer, however, to say that the
bank shares have not been assessed for valuation at a greater
rate than insurance shares, because the latter are not assessed at all, and are not subject under the State laws to
taxation. Such omission to assess and tax insurance shares
is subversive of the principle of the first proviso. Its direct
result is to produce the prohibited discrimination.
It is submitted that the reasons above assigned for the re1 R .vi~ed Statutes of New York, ;93,

51.

t Id 414,

1.

t Bank of Commerce v. Tax Commissioners, 2 Black, 620; Bank Tax
Case, 2 Wallace, 206.

PEOPLE V. THE COMMISSIONhiRS.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the defendants in error.

versal of the judgment of the State court are sanctioned by
the unanimous opinion of this court in TTan Allen v. The As-

sessors.
In that case the judgment was reversed, because of a noncompliance with the second proviso of the forty-first section
relating to the tax.
In the present case the defect is a parallel non-compliance
with thefirst proviso relating to the assessment.
For the defendants in error: All the questions involved in
the discussion of these cases upon the merits have, in effect,
been decided by this court against the positions maintained
by the plaintiffs in error.
When the question of the right of the State authorities to
tax shareholders in national banks was before the court, in
Van Allen v. The Assessors, it was held, as will be seen by
reference to the case, that the right existed, and that the tax
would have been legal, except for a single defect in the enabling act passed by the legislature of New York in 1865,
which consisted in an omission to re-enact a provision of the
act of Congress which required, that "the tax so imposed
under the laws of any State upon the shares of the associations authorized by this act, shall not exceed the rate imposed upon the shares of any of the banks organized under
the authority of the State where such association is located,"
and it was then said by the court that that defect "may be
readily remedied by the State legislature."
That defect was accordingly remedied by the act of the
legislature of NTew York, passed April 23d, 1866, by which
both state and national banks were put on the same footing
as to taxation.
That it was then intended, in the decision of Van Allen v.
The Assessors, by this court, to make a final disposition of
the question whether the shares of national banks were
liable to municipal taxation, is declared by the court itself
in the following language: "The court are of opinion Ithgt
this power is possessed by the State, and that it is due to the
several cases which have been so fully and satisfactorily ar-

Dec. 1866.]

PEOPLE v. THE COMMISSIONERIS.

251

Argument for the defendants in error.

gued before us at this term, as well as to the public interest
involved, that the question should be finally disposed of."
And the court then proceeded to state the grounds and reasons which they said "had led to their judgment in the
case."
The report shows that every point was fully considered
by all the judges, with a view to a decision of all the questions now attempted to be raised again.
It was held in that case:
1. That it is not a tax upon the Federal bonds,'but upon

the benefits the shareholder would derive from the new use
of them under the privilege conferred upon the associations
by the act of Congress.
2. That a tax on the shares is not a tax on the capital of
the bank.
3. That Congress has the power to permit the States to
levy the tax, and has so legislated as to leave the shares of
the stockholder subject to State taxation without any deduction for United States bonds held by the association.
4. That "the State tax under this act of Congress involves no question as to the plighted faith of the government."
It is true, there was another question, a technical one, involved. But that makes the decision none the less authoritative on the other question. Both the questions were
equally presented, discussed, and decided; the constitutional
power to tax, and the question whether the tax was properly
levied. And it makes no difference that the decision of one,
standing alone, requires the affirmance of the judgment,
and the 6ther called for a reversal, though the judgment was
in fact reversed. A decision becomes authority, when it
appears that the question was really involved and was fully
considered and decided by the court.
But if the question upon the merits is again open for discussion, then we say: [The counsel then discussed the matter
upon merits.]
I. In the case of Mlead and others of the cases now before

PEOPLE V. THE COMMISSIONERS.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the defendants in error.

this court, the question is raised whether a municipal tax
may be collected from the shareholders of State banks, when
the capital of the State bank, or a part of it, is invested in
government bonds. Why should it not be?
This tax is levied in accordance with the express provision
of the State act of April 23, 1866.
It is not a tax on the capital of the banks, nor on the
United States bonds held by the bank. This view is sustained in Van Allen v. The Assessors.
This taxation is by implication authorized by the act of
Congress, which expressly permits shares of stock in national banks, under like circumstances, to be taxed, and
then requires that the taxation of shares of both national
and state banks shall be placed on the same footing.
And the same reason for it exists as in the case of national
banks, because the bonds are in fact put to a use not contemplated in the original contract between the government
and the lender, of which use the shareholder receives the
benefit in the way of dividends.
H. The only other requirement of the act of Congress was,
that the taxes on the shares of the national banks shall not
be "at a greater rate than is assessed upon other moneyed
capital in the hands of individual citizens of such State."
This, too, has been complied with. The statute of the
State expressly forbids a higher rate of taxation.
This last proviso does not refer to corporations of any
kind, but refers to private individuals-citizens of the State.
The tax on bank shares is not to exceed the rate assessed
upon other moneyed capital in the hands of such persons.
We submit that the words "moneyed capital" refer only
to such moneyed capital as is liable to assessment. They do
not refer to bonds of the United States owned by individuals, for they are not moneyed capital liable to assessment.
No assessment at all is to be made on such property.
The moneyed capital in the hands of an individual liable
to assessment is first to be ascertained. The United States
bonds, if he has any, are to be deducted. The balance is
his moneyed capital liable to be assessed, and the assessment

Dec. 1866.]

PEOPLE V. TiE

COMMISSIONERS.

253

Argument for the defendants in error.

is made on it at precisely the same rate as that upon the
shares of stock in a bank.
Congress did not say and did not mean all the moneyed
capital in the hands of individual citizens, but only that
which "is assessed" or, in equivalent words, is liable to assessment.
No other construction could have been intended by Congress-for that body well knew that United States bonds
held by individuals were not liable to be assessed by State
authority-and that this State had not the power to pass an
act which should subject them to State taxation. They will
not be supposed to have prescribed an impossibilitV, or the
enacting of an unconstitutional statute as a condition on
which alone a State could have the benefit of the privilege
tendered by this act of Congress of taxing the shares of
national banks.
We assert that, in this proviso, "rate" means the rate per
cent. If the assessment on moneyed capital in the hands of
individuals is at the rate of two per cent., the assessment on
the shares of stock cannot be at a greater rate.
Nor was any different meaning given to this word by this
court in the case of Van Allen v. The Assessors where it occurs in the other proviso. The act of Congress had required
that the tax on the shares of national banks should not exceed the rate imposed upon the shares in State banks. No
tax has been imposed by the State upon the shares of State
banks. They were left, as before, to be assessed on their
capital, and this operated unequally, as where assessments
were made upon capital, certain deductions could be made
which could not be made when assessed upon shares. The
tax therefore on the shares of national banks was at a rate
exceeding the tax on the shares of State banks by the whole
amount of the tax. If the rate of taxation was two per cent.,
that was the excess of rate over the rate on shares of State
banks not taxed at all.
It is objected that insurance companies are taxed on their
capital, and that the United States bonds held by them, if
any, are exempt from taxation. But Congress has made no

PEOPLE V. THE COMMISSIONERS.

['Sup. Ct.

Argument for the defendants in error.

requirement as to such corporations.

They are neither

"banking associations," nor "individual citizens."
It was the policy of Congress to place the national banks
upon an equal footing with the State banks with which they
were to come in competition.

It allowed the national

banks to be taxed on "all their shares," but required that
the tax should not exceed the rate imposed on the shares of
State banks.
The national banks were not to be placed in competition
with insurance companies, and needed no special protection
as to them.
To protect them, however, against a possible abuse-a
legislation which might discriminate unjustly, by authorizing
a greater rate per cent. to be assessed on bank shares than
on the taxable property of individual citizens,-the proviso
last discussed was adopted.
We suppose that the only safeguards attempted to be secured by Congress at all necessary to the protection of the
national banks were the two following:
1st. Fairness of competition with State banks.
2d. No discriminating abuse of the taxing power on the
rate per cent. as compared with taxable individual capital.
There was no necessity, therefore, for any provision in
the act of Congress as to insurance companies. Nor is any
amendment called for. Insurance companies stand already
upon the same footing as "individual citizens." Their taxable capital is taxed at the same rate as the shares of banks.
And so it should be. It was the intention of Congress, as
was said in Van Allen v. The Assessors, to subject "all the
shares" of banks to taxation, without deduction for any
United States bonds they might hold, because they had
availed themselves of the privilege given by that act to use
the bonds in a way to secure large profits, but by a use neither contemplated nor permitted at the time of the original
contract between the government and the bondholder.
But insurance companies had no such privilege and could
make no such use of the bonds. They could only hold them
as "individual citizens" did, making no mor on them than

Dec. 186G.]

PEOPLE V. TiE COMMISSIONERS.

255

Opinion of the court.

was agreed upon when the bonds were issued, viz., simple
interest.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
These cases are writs of error to the Court of Appeals of
the State of New York. The relator in the first is an owner
of one hundred and fifty-two shares of stock in the National
Bank of Commerce in New York.
The capital of the banjc consists of one hundred thousand
shares of one hundred dollars each, and which is invested
in United States securities, and exempt from State taxation.
The commissioners of taxes, in making their assessments,
valued the shares at par, and imposed upon them the same
rate of tax as was imposed upon other personal property in
this city.
The commissioners, in their return to the certiorari,state
that in estimating the value of the shares they made no deduction on account of the investment of the capital of the
bank in United States securities. That in the valuation of
the personal estate of individuals, these securities held and
owned by them were deducted and the tax assessed on the
balance; and the like deductions were made from the capital
of insurance companies.
The assessment of this tax on the shares of the relator in
the Bank of Commerce was carried to the Supreme Court
of the State, and, after argument, was affirmed, and thence
to the Court of Appeals, where the judgment of the Supreme
Court was affirmed. The case is now here on error under
the twenty-fifth section of the Judiciary Act.
The first objection taken to the legality of the tax is on
the ground that the commissioners in the valuation of the
shares refused to deduct the amount of capital of the bank
invested in United States securities, and, hence, refused to
regard this deduction in the valuation of the shares.
This question has heretofore been considered by this court,
and, after full deliberation, determined, in the case of Van
Allen v. The Assessors,* and need not again be examined.
* 3 Wallace, 578.

PEOPLE v. THE OMmIssIoNERs.

[sup. Ct. .

Opinion of the court.

That case was one of a large class of cases, which were very
thoroughly argued, and received, at the time, the most careful examination of the court.
The next, and perhaps the only material question in the
case, arises upon a construction of a clause in the first proviso of the forty-first section of the National Bank Act.
After referring to the taxation of these shares by State
authority, it provides: "But not at a greater rate than is
assessed upon other moneyed capital in the hands of individual citizens of such States."
It is argued that the assessment upon the shares of the
relator is at a greater rate than that of the personal property
of individual citizens, upon the ground that allowance was
made on account of United States*securities hdld and owned
by them, when at the same time the deduction was disallowed
to him.
The answer is, that upon a true construction of this clause
of the act, the meaning and intent of the law-makers were,
that the rate of taxation of the shares should be the same,
or not greater, than upon the moneyed capital of the individual citizen which is subject or liable to taxation. That
is, no greater proportion or percentage of tax in the valuation of the shares should be levied than upon other moneyed
taxable capital in the hands of the citizens.
This rule seems to be as effectual a test to prevent unjust
discrimination against the shareholders as could well be devised. It embraces a class which constitutes the body politic
of the State, who make its laws and provide for its taxes.
They cannot be greater than the citizens impose upon themselves. It is known as sound policy that, in every wellregulated and enlightened state or government, certain descriptions of property, and also certain institutions-such
as churches, hospitals, academies, cemeteries, and the likeare exempt from taxation; but these exemptions have never
been regarded as disturbing the rates of taxation, even where
the fundamental law had ordained that it should be uniform.
The objection is a singular one. At the time Congress

.

Dec. 1866.]

PEOPLE V. THE COMMISSIONERS.

257

Opinion of the court.

enacted this rule as a limitation against discrimination, it
was well known to that body that these securities in the
hands of the citizen were exempt from taxation. It had
been so held by this court, and, for abundant caution, had
passed into a law.
The argument founded on the objection, if it proves anything, proves that these securities should have been taxed
in the hands of individuals to equalize the taxation; and,
hence, that Congress by this clause in the proviso intended
to subject them, as thus situated, to taxation; and, therefore,
there was error in the deduction. This we do not suppose
is claimed. But if this is not the result of the argument,
then, the other conclusion from it is, that Congress required
that the commissioners should deduct the securities, and at
the same time intended the deduction, if made, should operate as a violation of the rate of the tax prescribed. We
dissent from both conclusions, and think a sound construction of the clause, and one consistent with its words and intent, is also consistent with all the acts of Congress on the
subject.
The commissioners, in their return, state that insurance
companies created under the laws of the State, and doing
business in the city of New York, were respectively assessed
upon the balance of their capital and surplus profits, liable
to taxation, after deducting therefrom such part as is invested in United States securities.
Another objection taken is, that the taxation of the shares
of the relator is illegal, on account of this deduction,-it
being a departure from the rate of assessment prescribed in
the clause already cited.
The answer is, that this clause does not refer to the rate
of assessments upon insurance companies as a test by which
to prevent discrimination against the shares; tliat is, confined to the rate of assessments upon moneyed capital in the
hands of individual citizens. These institutions are not
within the words or the contemplation of Congress; but
even if they were, the answer we have already given to the
VOL. IV.

17

PEOPLE v. TuE COMISSIONERS.

[Sup. or.

Opinion of the court.

,deduction of these securities in the assessment of the prop.erty of individual citizens is equally applicable to them.
These companies are taxed on their capital, and not on the
shareholder, at the same rate as other personal property in
the State. There is not much danger to be apprehended of
a discriminating tax in their favor, prejudicial to the rights
,or property of the citizen; and, of course, to the rights of
the shareholders in these national banks, who stand on the
same footing.
The relator in the second case, Ralph Mead, is the holder
and owner of twenty-five shares of stock in the Corn Exchange Bank, in the city of New York, incorporated under
the laws of the State.
The act of April 23d, 1866, imposed a tax on the shares
of these banks.
It is insisted that the tax is illegal on account of the refusal of the commissioners to deduct the United States securities in which a portion of the capital stock of the bank
was invested.
The general question was distinctly presented in the bank
cases of the last term, of which Van Allen v. The Assessors
was one of the class,* and disposed of. It was there said:
"But, in addition to this view, the tax on the shares is not
a tax on the capital of the bank. The corporation is the
legal owner of all the property of the bank, real and personal; and within the powers conferred upon it by the charter, and for the purposes for which it was created, can deal
with the corporate property as absolutely as a private individual can deal with his own. . . . The interest of the shareholder entitles him to participate in the net profits earned
by the bank, in the employment of its capital, during the
existence of its charter, in proportion to the number of his
shares; and upon its dissolution or termination, to his proportion of the property that may remain, of the corporation,
after the payment of its debts. This is a distinct, independent interest or property, held by the shareholder like any
* 3 Wallace, 573, 583, and 584.

Dec. 1866.]

D1 .
GRAHAM
V. 'UNITED STATES.
Syllabus.

other property that may belong to him.;" and, we add, of
course, is subject to like taxation.
It was supposed, on the argument,, that this principle was
in conflict with that which governed the decision of this
court in the case of Gardnerv. The Appeal Tax Uourt,* but
this is a mistake. That case turned upon the construction
of an act of Maryland exempting the bank from taxation on
account of a large bonus to the State for the extension of
the charter. This court held, that upon a true construction
of the act, the stockholders were within the scope of the exemption. The court say: "In whatever way we examine
the acts of 1813 and 1821, we are of opinion that it appears
from the eleventh section in those acts, to have been the
intention of the legislatures which passed them, to exempt
the stockholders from taxation as persons, on account of the
stock which they owned in the banks."
Some other questions were discussed on the argument,
besides those we have noticed, but they are questions of
which this court cannot take cognizance. We have examined all of them that are here under the twenty-fifth section
of the Judiciary Act.
Judgment of the court below
AFFIRMED.
The CHIEF JUSTIOE: In concurrence with my brothers
Wayne and Swayne, I dissent from the opinion just read.
The reasons of dissent sufficiently appear in our dissenting
opinion in the case of Van Allen v. The Assessors, read at the
last term, and we do not think it 4ecessary to repeat them.

GRAHAm v. UNITED STATES.
1. The Mexican law made a formal delivery of possession of real property
granted essential, after the execution of the grant, for the investiture

of the title.
* 3 Howard, 133.

