186

UNITED STATES

v.

ALLSBURY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

UNITED STATES V. ALLSBURY.

If a judgment is obtained against a surety, the amount of it being fixed by
a judgment previously obtained against his principal, the former jadgment cannot be reversed on error as for an amount too small, though
the latter should be afterwards reversed as having so been.

ERROR to the District Court of the United States for the
Western District of Texas.
Allsbury had become bound as surety in the official bond
of Dashiel, paymaster. Suit having been brought on this
bond against Dashiel, and Paschall, one of the sureties, to
recover what the United States alleged was due, to wit,
$20,085, a defence was set up to part of the claim; and the
defence being sustained by the court below, the United States
had verdict and judgment for but $10,318.22. Error was
taken to that judgment, and the judgment reversed. The
case next preceding gives report of the matter.
The present suit was brought on the same official bond
of Dashiel, against the personal representatives of Allsbury,
another of the sureties. The case came on for trial after the
trial, verdict, and judgment, just mentioned, against the
principal, and Paschall, the other surety, for $10,818.22.
The judgment was pleaded puis darrein continuance, in
this suit, for the purpose of reducing the recovery to that
amount.
It was admitted by the court, and instructions given accordingly, and the jury found a verdict for the above sum.
The coriectness of what was thus done was the question
now here.

31r. Slanbery, A. G., submitted the case in behalf of the
United States. Jr. Paschall,contra.
Air. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
It is unnecessary to refer to authorities to show that the
liability of the surety cannot exceed that of his principal;
and that amount having been fixed by a judgment at law,

Dec. 1866.]

LEFTWITCH V.

LEOANU.

Statement of the case.

it formed the rule to determine the sum to be recovered in
this suit. The verdict and judgment were competent evidence on behalf of the surety-for this purpose; indeed, the
highest evidence of the fact. Other questions would have
arisen if this judgment had been offered against the surety.
The counsel for the government, if desirous of recovering a
greater amount, should have postponed the trial of this case
till the error had been corrected which was committed in
the case against the principal. Then he would have been
in a situation to avoid the effect of the erroneous judgment.
This is the only question presented on the record.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

LEFTwITcH V. LECANU.
1. When a paper which is to constitute a part of a bill of exceptions is not
incorporated into the body of the bill, it must be annexed to it, or so
marked by letter, number, or other means of identification mentioned
in the bill, as to leave no doubt, when found in the record, that it is the
one referred to in the bill of exceptions, otherwise it will be disregarded.
2. That a copy of a paper is attached to a pleading in the case, which purports to be the same as-the paper mentioned in the bill of exceptions,
does not make it a part of that bill, nor can this court presume that it
is the same paper read in evidence and excepted to.

A STATUTE of Louisiana* enacts "that notaries shall keep a
book, in which they shall transcribe all the protests by them
made, with mention made of the notices which they shall
have given to drawers and indorsers, &c.; which declaration,
duly recorded under the signatureof the notary public and two
witnesses, shall be received as a legal proof of the notices."
With this statute in force, Lecanu sued Leftwitch and
others in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Louisiana, as indorsers of a promissory
note. The suit was in the form usual in Louisiana, that is
to say, by petition, and the plea was a general denial.
* Stat. of 1855, p. 48,

7.

