Dec. 1866.]

BRADLEY V. THE PEOPLE.
Argument against the tax.

BRADLEY V. THE PEOPLE.
A tax on the capital of a bank is not the same thing as a tax upon the shares
of which the capital is composed. And where a State imposes on the
State banks a tax on their capital (the sharesin the hands of the shareholders being exempt from tax), it cannot lay a tax on the shares of
banks, organized under the act of June 3d, 1864, to provide a national
currency. Van Allen v. The Assessors (3 Wallace, 573), affirmed.

Tuis was a writ of error to the Supreme Court of Illinois.
The case came before that court on an appeal from a decision of the Board of Supervisors of the County of Peoria,
by which they had refused to assess a state and county tax
on the shares of Bradley and Howell in the First and Second
National Banks of Peoria. The appeal was taken by the
auditor of public accounts, in behalf of the State.
The Supreme Court reversed this decision of the board,
and held the shareholders liable to the tax. The ground
of exemption relied on, both before the supervisors and the
Supreme Court, was want of authority in the board, within
the forty-first section of the National Bank Act of June,
1864, and particularly within the second proviso of that
section, which declares that the tax imposed on the shares
of any banking associations under that act "shall not exceed
the rate imposed upon the shares in any of the banks organized under the authority of the States."
The act of the State, dated February 14th, 1857, and under
which the tax was assessed, provides for taxing the capital
stock of the banks, together with the surplus profits or reserved funds. No tax was imposed specifically on the shares
held by the stockholder.
lessrs. Dexter and Walker, for the shareholders,plaintiffs in
error:
The State has adopted as its policy, in the case of its
banks the policy of taxing the capital and property of the
bank as an entirety to the corporation itself, and thereby of

BRADLEY v. THE PEOPLE.

[Sup. ot.

Argument in favor of the tax.

relieving the shares in the hands of the holder. This may
be not only the most simple, direct, and economical method,
but also the more usual one of charging this kind of property with its proportionate burden for the support of the
government.

But whether the better mode or not, it is the one and the
only one prescribed or authorized by the legislature of the
State, and if the property in question is to be taxed at all, it
must be assessed to the corporation, as part of one entire and
indivisible thing. The statute is, of course, in derogation
of the common law, and one by which the property.of the
citizen is taken and appropriated to the purpose of the government. The precise mode prescribed for the imposition
of the tax must therefore be pursued.
The conclusion is then inevitable, that the shares of the
capital stock of banks and banking associations in the State
of Illinois, in the hands of the shareholder, are not subject
to taxation, but are exempt therefrom.
Now Congress provides that on any tax imposed on shares
of National banks in the hands of the holder, the rate of
"such taxation shall not exceed the rate imposed upon the shares
qf any of the banks organized under the authority of the State
where such association is located." And if on the shares of
banks organized tnder the law of the State, there is no rate
of taxation, it follows that no taxes whatever could be imposed on the shares in question.
Mr. Palmer, contra:
Neither the National government, the creator of the species of property now taxed, nor the shareholders can be interested in the methods which may be adopted by the State
for the imposition of the tax.
The objects of the government and the rights of the shareholders are secure under any modes which only impose the
same rate of taxation upon the shares in National banks,
that is imposed upon the shares in any banks organized
under the laws of the State.
The inquiry then is: Do the laws of Illinois impose or is

Dec. 1866.]

BRADLEY v.

TuE PEOPLE.

Reply against the tax.

it proposed under those laws to collect from the plaintiffs in
error any greater rate of taxation than is imposed upon
shareholders in State institutions ?
It is said that this is a tax not upon shares, but upon capital. But what difference does it make whether the shares
are taxed to the several shareholders or the capital stock,
which "g the aggregate of all the shares, taxed to the corporation ? "The amount assessed by either mode is precisely the same. The shares represent the capital stock,
and the capital stock represents the shares. If listed by the
shareholder he would pay the tax directly, and if listed by
the bank he wourd pay the same amount indirectly, as in
that case the bank would apply, for that purpose, what
would otherwise go to the shareholder as a portion of his
dividend on his stock. It only accomplishes the same end
in a different mode. It is, in this case, a tax on the shares
of the capita.l stock and at the same rate."
The shares in the State banks are taxed, and at the same
rate as the shares of the banks created by the National
banking law; and in no event can the shares in the local
banks be taxed at a different rate from the shares in the
National banks under existing State legislation. Where all
the shares in a National bank are taxed, it can only equal
the value of its capital stock, and that is the measure of the
amount required to be assessed on the stock of the State
banks.
.Reply: It is said that the entire capital, which includes all
the shares, is taxed as a whole, and that this, so far as the
rate is concerned, is equivalent to taxing the shares. But
the answer to this is, that under well-known principles of
law, the statute laying the tax is to be strictly construed.
The mode of taxation designated must therefore be scrupulously adhered to, and for it there is and can be no substitute or equivalent.
Again, a tax levied upon the entire capital of a bank,
which includes all the shares, is not the same thing or
equivalent to a tax levied upon the shares in the hands of

BRADLEY V. THE PEOPLE.

[Sup.

dt.

Opinion of the court.

the stockholders. "The corporation," says this court, in
Van Allen v. The Assessor3,* "is the legal owner of all the
property of the bank, real and personal; and within the
powers conferred upon it by the charter, and for the purpose for which it was created, can deal with the corporate
property as absolutely as a private individual can deal with
his own. This is familiar law, and will be found in every
work that may be opened on the subject of corporations."
A striking exemplification may be seen in the case of The
Queen v. Arnoud.t The question related to the registry of a
ship owned by a corporation. Lord Denman observed: "It
appears to me that the British corporation is, as such, the
sole owner of the ship. The individual members of the
corporation are no doubt interested, in one sense, in the
property of the corporation, as they may derive individual
benefits from its increase, or loss from its decrease; but in
no legal sense are the individual members the owners."
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
The question raised in this case came before us in the case
of Van Allen v. The Assessors,j from New York, where the
statute taxing the State banks was substantially like that of
Illinois. We there held the tax unauthorized, for the defect
stated.
It was in that case attempted to be sustained on the same
ground relied on here, that the tax on the capital was equivalent to tax on the shares, as respected the shareholders.
But the position was answered that, admitting it to be so,
yet, inasmuch as the capital" of the State banks may consist
of the bonds of the United States, which were exempt from
State taxation, it was not easy to see that the tax on the
capital was an equivalent to a tax on the shares.
We see no distinction between the two cases, and the
judgment of the court below must be reversed, and the
* 3 Wallace, 584.

t 9 Adolphus and Ellis, New Series, 806.
3 Wallace, 573, 681.

Dec. 1866.]

THOMPSON V. BOWIE.
Statement of the case.

proceedings remanded, with directions to enter a judgment
affirming the decision of the board of supervisors.
JUDGMENT ACCORDINGLY.

Mr. Justice DAVIS took no part in the decision of this
case.

THOMPSON V. BowIE.
On an issue as to whether certain promissory notes, dated on a particular
day, were given for money lost at play and therefore void, it is not
allowable to prove that the party giving them was intoxicated on the
day of the date of the notes in suit, and that when intoxicated he had
a propensity to game.

THOMPsON sued Bowie, in the Supreme Court for the
District of Columbia, on three promissory notes for $1000,
all dated on the 1st January, 1857, and all drawn payable to
and indorsed by one Steer.
The defence was, that the notes were given for a gaming
consideration, and were, therefore, void even in the hands
of a bonafide h older, under the statute of 9th Anne, ch. 14,
ยง 1, in force in the district;* which statute makes such notes
"utterly void, frustrate, and of none effect, to all intents and
purposes whatsoever."
The defendant did not offer any direct evidence tending
to establish the defence; but resorted to and relied on proof
of a circumstantial sort, or such as he so regarded. It consisted of the following facts, tending to prove which the
court below allowed evidence to be given.
1st. That Steer, the payee of the notes, was the keeper
of a gambling-house, in Washington City, at the date of the
notes.
2d. That, at the time of the making of the notes, Steer
* See Kilty's Report of Statutes, p. 248.

