UNITED STATES V. HoFFMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

The decree of the Supreme Court of Arkansas must, there.
fore, be reversed and the cause remanded, with instructions
to enter a
DECREE IN CONFORMITY WITH THIS OPINION.
! .B. The same order was made in cases Nos. 28, 29, 30, .31, 32, and 33,
argued with the above case, and which the Chief Justice said were governed
by its decision.

UNITED STATES V. H oFFMAN.
1. The writ of prohibition can only be used to.prevent the doing of some act
which is about to be done, and can never be used as a remedy for acts
already completed.
2. Therefore, where the court to which the writ should be issued, has already
disposed of the case, so that nothing remains which that court can do,
either by way of executing its judgment or otherwise, no prohibition will
be granted.
3. And this is true, though the final disposition of the case was made after
service on the judge of a rule to show cause why the writ should not
issue, and though other cases of the same character may be pending in
the same court.

ON a motion for prohibition.
At the last term of this court the relator made application
for a writ of prohibition to the judge of the District Court
of the Northern District of California, to prevent that court
fiom proceeding further in a certain cause in admiralty.
This court, without looking into the question of the alleged
want of jurisdiction, granted a rule on the judge of that
court to show cause why the writ should not be issued; and
an order accompanied the rule, that he should proceed no
further in the case until the decision of this court in the
premises.
The return of the judge to that rule was now before this
court. The substance of it was, that after the rule had been
served upon him the libellant in the admiralty suit came
into court, and moved for permission to pay all the costs
that had accrued, and to dismiss his suit. After hearing

Dec. 1866.]

UNITED STATES V. THOFFMAN.'

159

Argument for the prohibition.

argument the court granted the motion, and the libellant,
having paid all the costs of both parties, an order was made
dismissing the suit.
The relator now asked that the writ of prohibition might
issue notwithstanding the return, and whether it should or
not, presented the question to be here decided.
The suggestion of the relator, it may be here mentioned,
stated that four other suits in admiralty against vessels
owned by, him, and founded on libels of the same character
as the libel in this case, were pending in the same court.
.lr. Carlisle, in support of the motion:
The only fact stated in the return which can be alleged
as cause why the prohibition should not issue, is that the
libel has been dismissed by the order of the District Court.
This, however, was done after the rule was issued, and
after it had been served, and against the objection of the
party here suing for the prohibition, and while the question
of the writ was subjudice, and was against the express mandate in the rule, that further proceedings in the said District Court upon the said libel be stayed until the further
order of this court in the premises. It is therefore wholly
impertinent to the return, and is at best mere surplusage.
But if such subsequent proceedings be properly before the
court they present no objection to the -writ. The law upon
this subject is fully stated by Lord Coke, in his second Institute.*
"Objection. As touching the time when prohibitions are
granted, it seemeth strange to us that they are not only granted
at the suit of the defendant in the ecclesiastical court after his
answer, whereby he affrmeth the jurisdiction of the said court,
and submitted himself unto the same; but also after all allegations and proofs made on both sides, when the cause is fully instructed and furnished for sentence; yea, after sentence; yea,
after two or three sentences given, and after execution of the
said sentence or sentences, and when the party for his long* Page 602.

UNITED STATES V.

oFFMAN.

[Sup. Ct

Argument for the prohibition.

continued disobedience is laid in prison upon the writ of excommunicato capiendo; which courses, forasmuch as they are against
the rules of the common law in like cases (as we take it), and
do tend so greatly to the delay of justice, vexation, and charge
of the subject, and the disgrace and discredit of his majesty's
jurisdiction ecclesiastical, the judges (as we suppose), notwithstanding their great learning in the laws, will hardly be able in
defence of them to satisfy your lordships."
"Answer. Prohibitions by law are to be granted at any time
to restrain a court to intermeddle with or execute anything
which by law they ought not to hold plea of, and they are much
mistaken that maintain the contrary. And it is the folly of
such as will proceed in the ecclesiastical court for that whereof
that court bath not jurisdiction, or in that whereof the king's
temporal courts should have the jurisdiction. And so themselves (by their extraordinary dealing), are the cause of such
extraordinary charges, and not the law; for their proceedings
in such case are coram non judice. And the king's courts that
may award prohibitions, being informed either by the partie.q
themselves, or by any stranger, that any court temporal or ecclesiastical doth hold plea of that (whereof they have hot jurisdiction), may lawfully prohibit the same as well after judgment and execution as before."
And the law continues the same to this day.*
The authorities, however, cited in the note, fall short of
the present case, and the books, it is believed, furnish no
instance of an inferior court proceeding in any direction or
to any degree in the suit before it, while the very question
of its jurisdiction was pending upon a motion for a prohibition in a superior court. Still less can any case be found
of an inferior court so proceeding in the face of an express
mandate to stay all proceedings in the premises until further
order.
To allow the prohibition to be defeated in this manner,
* Faxton v. Knight, 1 Burrow, 314; Buggin v. Bennett, 4 Id. 2035;
Roberts v. Humby, 3 Meeson & Welsby, 120; Jones v. Owen, 5 Dowling &
Lowndes, 669.

Dec. 1866.]

UNITED STATES V. HOFFMAx.

161

Opinion of the court.

would not only be against principle and precedent, but injurious and vexatious to the party suing here.
It appears by the suggestion that other suits by libel
against the vessels of the same party are pending in the
same court, under similar circumstances. If that cotirt has
no jurisdiction in the premises, the prohibition in the present case would have disposed of all the others. But if the
proceeding set up by the return be sanctioned, the same
thing may be repeated in each of those cases; and in this
manner onerous costs may be put upon the party suing for,
and, as is here assumed, entitled to the protection of this
court, while he is still left exposed to the assertion of the
same unfounded jurisdiction.
In the analogous case of an injunction, even where the
defendant admitting the wrong discontinues it, and promises
not to repeat it, the complainant is, nevertheless, entitled to
the judgment of the court for his protection.*
By much greater reason should the prohibition issue in
this case, as the question is one ofjurisdiction, in which the
public is concerned, when the writ will issue upon the suggestion of a stranger to correct a usurpation, as the authorities above cited show; whereas, in the absence of the writ,
the records of the District Court can only show that the
libellant there, for some undisclosed reason, thought proper
to withdraw his suit; the judge, by the record, still affirming his jurisdiction, as to which he intimates no doubt in
his return.
Mr. Justice MIMLEI delivered the opinion of the court.
The writ of prohibition, as its name imports, is one which
commands the person to whom it is directed not to do something which, by the suggestion of the relator, the court is
informed he is about to do. If the thing be already done,
it is manifest the writ of prohibition cannot undo it, for that
would require an affirmative act; and the only effect of a
writ of prohibition is to* suspend all action, and to prevent
* Losh tr. Hague, Webster's Patent Cases, 200.

VOL. Iv.

11

UNITED STATES V. HOFFMAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

any further proceeding in the prohibited direction. In the
case before us the writ, from its very nature, could do no
more than forbid the judge of the District Court from proceeding any further in the case in admiralty.
The return shows that such an order is unnecessary, and
will be wholly useless, for the case is not now pending before that scourt, and there is no reason to suppose that it
will be in any manner revived or brought up again for
action. The facts shown by the return negative such a
presumption.
Counsel has argued very ingeniously that the case should
be considered as remaining in the court below, in the same
position as it was when the rule issued from this court; but
we cannot so regard it. By the action of the libellant and
the consent of the court, the case is out of court, and the relator is no longer harassed by an attempt to exercise over
him a jurisdiction which he claims to be unwarranted. If
the return shows no more, it shows that the district judge
has no intention of proceeding further in that case. Now,
ought the writ to issue to him under such circumstances?
It would seem to be an offensive and useless exercise of authority for the court to order it.
The suggestion that there are or may be other cases
against the relator of the same character can have -no legal
force in this case. If they are now pending, and the relator
will satisfy the court that they are proper cases for the exercise of the court's authority, it would probably issue writs
instead of a rule, but a writ in this case could not restrain
the judge in the other cases by its own force, and could
affect his action only so far as he might respect the principle
on which the court acted in this case. We are not prepared
to adopt the rule that we will issue a writ in a case where
its issue is not justified, for the sole purpose of establishing
a principle to govern other cases.
We have examined carefully all the cases referred to by
counsel which show that a prohibition may issue after sentence or judgment; but in all these cases something renained which the court or party to whom the writ was

:Dec. 1866.]

WALKER V.

UNITED STATES.

Statement of the case.

directed might do, and probably would have done, as the
collection of costs, or otherwise enforcing the sentence.
Here the return shows that nothing is left to be done in
the case. It is altogether gone out of the court.
These views are supported by the following cases:
In United States v. Peters,*which was an application for prohibition to the admiralty, this court suspended its decision
to give the libellant an opportunity to dismiss his libel. The
court finally issued the writ, but there seems no reason to
doubt, from the report of the case, that it would have considered such action by the libellant as an answer to the request for the writ.
In the case of Hall v. Norwood t-a very old case, when
writs of prohibition were much more common than now-a
prohibition was asked to a court of the Cinque Ports at Dover. While the case was under consideration, the reporter
says.* "On the other hand the co urt was informed that they
had proceeded to judgment and execution at Dover, and
therefore that they move here too late for a prohibition, and
of this opinion was the court, since there is no person to be
prohibited, and possessions are never taken away or disturbed by prohibitions." The marginal note by the reporter
is this: "Prohibition will not lie after the cause is ended."
The rule heretofore granted in this case is
DISOHARGET'

WALKER V. UNITED

STATES.

The jurisdiction of this court to re-examine judgments of the Circuit Courts
is limited to cases where the matter in dispute exceeds $2000. Where it
but equals that sum the jurisdiction does not exist.
THE United States had recovered judgment against Walker
in the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana,
"for the sum of $2000, with interest thereon at the rate of
* 3 Dallas, 121.

t Siderfin, 166.

