BELL V.

RAILROAD COMPANY.

[Sup, Or.

Syllabus.

Decisions on such motions, by the District Courts, were
required to be made upon such grounds of law and facts as
the case might furnish; and upon like grounds were the
decisions of the Supreme Court, upon appeal, required to
be made. We cannot doubt that the decision of the District
Court, in such a case, was the exercise of a discretion not
reviewable in the Territorial Supreme Court, except under
an express statute of the Territory. And we are obliged to
think that the decision of the appellate court was equally an
exercise of discretion upon the law and the facts, and not
reviewable here in the absence of any act of Congress authorizing appeals in such cases.
This view of the preliminary question makes it unnecessary to examine the other important points in the case,
which have been so ably and exhaustively discussed by
counsel. We think the judgment of the Supreme Territorial Court only an order affirming the order of the District
Court denying a motion for new trial, and that it is therefore not reviewable here on error.
WRIT DISMISSED.

BELL V. RAILROAD COMPANY.
1. Minicipal corporations, such as the county boards of police usual in Mississippi, when authorized by statute to do acts which otherwise they
would have no power to do-such, for example, as subscribe to a railroad incorporated and beginning in another State and passing through
their own State-cannot modify or alter the subscription as authorized
by the statute. A compromise by such board with a railroad company
which does so modify or alter the subscription is, accordingly, void.
2. A sheriff, ex ofcio collector of taxes, who under the direction properly
given of such county police board has collected a tax which such board
was authorized by statute, upon certain conditions, to levy for the benefit of another body, a railroad company, has no right to decide whether
such municipal body has laid the tax rightly or not, or to settle differences between the tax-payers, the county, and the third body. If the
president of the board of police direct him to pay it to the third body
his duty is to pay it.

Dec. 1866.]

BELL V. RAILROAD COMPANY.

599

Statement of the case.
3. The fact that the statute made it the duty of such sheriff before entering
upon the duty of collecting to give a bond to the president of the board
of police, with sureties to be approved iy him, and by which he should
bind himself to 11keep safely and pay over to the order of the president
of the board of police all money collected by him," and that the sheriff
did not give a bond in such form at all, does not affect this obligation.
4. "Where there is a plea to merits, and the parties go to trial accordingly,
irregularities previously set up by pleas in abatement and demurrers to
them are waived.
ERROR to the District Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Mississippi.
The Mobile and Ohio Railroad Company, a corporation
created by the laws of Alabama, was compelled, in order to
reach its northern terminus, to pass through Mississippi, and
the legislature being desirous that the road should, be built,
gave to the corporation the necessary powers to extend their
line through the State. As the enterprise was one of great
public utility, it was deemed important that the counties
benefited by the construction of the road should have the
privilege of subscribing for and holding stock in it. Provision was accordingly made for the police court of any
county through which the road should be located, or of any
county contiguous to it, to subscribe for stock, if the sense
of the people of the county, obtained through an election,
was in favor of it, and authority was given to levy a special
tax to pay for the stock, if the vote was for the subscription.
The sheriff of the county, who was ex-officio tax collector,
was required, before he entered on the discharge of the
duties imposed on him by this legislation, to execute a bond,
payable to the president of the board of police and his successors in office, conditioned that he would safely keep and
pay over to is order all moneys collected by virtue of the taxthus levied. The County of Pontotoc voted to subscribe for
one hundred thousand dollars of stock in the road, and the
board of police of the county, at their August term, 1852,
levied a tax to pay for this subscription, and directed the
sheriff to collect it, who, in pursuance of his instructions, did
collect a certain sum of money.
The police court, for some reason not disclosed by the rec-

BELL v. RAILROAD CoMPANY.

[Sup. Gt.

Statement of the case.

ord, failed to make the subscription, and controversy arose
with the railroad corporation because this was not done, resulting in a litigation. This litigation was finally compromised; the railroad company agreeing to release all claim
*against the county on account of any liability for stock heretofore voted for by the people of the county, to be taken by
the county, and the condition of the release being that the
board of police would pay over as a bonus the sum collected
by the sheriff.
The president of the board accordingly, by written draft,
directed the sheriff, a certain Bell, to pay to the railroad
company the sum of money already collected by him under
order of the board of police for the purpose of paying
for stock in the said company. Bell, when called on by
the agent of the company, specially appointed to settle the
dispute, to know if he would accept the order, told his
agent "to get up his order and fix it up right, and if things
When,
were fixed up right, he, Bell, bad the money."
not
Bell
would
presented,
actually
was
the
order
however,
the
stock
that
accept the order nor pay the money, alleging
had been illegally subscribed for.
He had not given a bond in the form prescribed by the
statute authorizing the subscription.
The company now brought assumpsit against Bell in the
Federal court fbr the Northern District of Mississippi, to recover the sum which he had collected, setting out the order,
acceptance, and non-payment; declaring also on an account
stated. Evidence of the compromise and agreement was put
in evidence and relied on; also the written order of the president of the police board on Bell, to pay the money to the
.railroad company.
The court below charged, among other things, that the
police court had no authority except such as was derived
from the acts of the legislature, and as such had no authority
to make a compromise, and that their action therein was
void. That the money in the hands of Bell vested in the
company so soon as an order was made by the president of
the police board on him to pay the money to the company.

Dec. 1866.]

BELL V. RAILROAD COMPANY.

601

Opinion of the court.

That Bell had no right to judge of the fact whether the
stock had or had not been legally subscribed for.
Judgment went accordingly in favor of the railroad company for the sum collected by the sheriff, Bell, defendant
in the suit, and he now brought the case here on error on
exceptions to the charge.
The record showed that there were pleas in abatement
and a demurrer to them in the case; the disposition of
which was not very plain. There was also a plea to the
merits subsequently put in, on which the suit went to trial,
and was tried.
The case was submitted on the record on behalf of the
plaintiff in error, Bell, and a printed brief of Mr. Peck, conIra, who contended that, if the compromise between the railroad company and the county was made in good faith, it
was binding. The company having a right to sue, and the
county a right to defend, the right to settle in any way, including compromise as one way, followed; but that if this
was not so, that the error had been to the prejudice of the
railroad company and not to that of Bell, and that the charge
having been correct on other points, there was no error for
which judgment could be reversed. In other respects-the
learned counsel argued-the charge was right.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court,
and after stating the case proceeded thus:
It is not necessary to consider the terms of the compromise as a basis of recovery; for it is very clear that a municipal corporation like the board of police could not modify
or alter the stock subscription voted by the people, in the
absence of power from the legislature, and as there is no
pretence that this was conferred, it follows that the agreement made with the railroad company was without authority
of law, and void. But the company did not rest their right
to recover on tis agreement, and the court expressly charged
the jury that no effect could be given to it.
There is, however, aside from this agreement or compromise, a substantial ground-relied on by the-court below,

BELL

v.

RAILROAD

COMPANY.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

and sustained by the evidence-on which the judgment in
this case can be supported. If the County of Pontotoc, according to the requirements of the law, voted a subscription
to the stock of the railroad; the board of police levied a
tax to pay for it; the tax was collected; and the president
of the board instructed Bell, who was the sheriff, and bad
the money, to pay it to the agent of the company, who
also demanded payment, then the liability of Bell is fixed,

and he cannot be allowed to interpose collateral matters by
way of defence. The money in the hands of Bell vested
in the railroad corporation so soon as the president of the
board of police drew the order, and, on presentation, he was
obliged to pay. His duty was obedience. It was no part
of his business to sit in judgment on the proceedings of the
board of police, nor was he at liberty to constitute himself
an arbiter to settle the differences that bad arisen, or might
arise, between the county, the tax-payers, and the company,
growing out of the vote to subscribe stock, and the refusal
to make the subscription.
So far as Bell was concerned, the board of police had the
exclusive power over this subject; and if in the exercise of
that power the president of the board directed him to pay
the money to the Mobile and Ohio Railroad, he could not
question the authority nor review the decision. And the
omission to give the bond, as by law required, cannot affect
his liability, although it may lessen the security of the com-

pany.
There is great confusion in the record in relation to the
disposition of the demurrers and pleas in abatement; but, as
Bell filed a plea to the merits, and the parties went to trial,
all antecedent irregularities were waived.
There is no error in the record, and the judgment below is
AFFIRMED WITH COSTS.

