SPARROW V.

STRONG.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

SPARROW V. STRONG.
1. This court will not take jurisdiction of a judgment shown by the context
of the record to be but an order affirming a refusal of a court below to
grant a new trial; even though the language of the record of affirmance
brought here by the writ of error purports to affirm generally the judgment of a court inferior to the affirming court, and the only judgment,
in strict language, in the record of such inferior court, is a general judgment.
2. An appeal from an order denying a motion for a new trial does not, under
the legislation of :Nevada, carry the original judgment and the whole
cause before the appellate court, so that the decision upon the appeal
operates as a judgment reversing or affirming the judgment below.

brought ejectment against Strong in the District
Court for the County of Story, in Nevada, for an undivided
interest in a mining claim, the proceeding being in the form
prevailing in Nevada, of petition, answer, and replication.
On the 21st of May, 1862, a jury, after hearing the evidence and the charge of the court, rendered a general verdict for the defendants.
On the next day afterwards, to wit, on the 22d day of
May, 1862, the court pronounced judgment on the verdict.
On the 13th of November, 1862, the District Court in
which the cause had been tried heard a motion for new trial,
and, after argument, overruled the motion and refused the
new trial, to which the plaintiffs excepted.
Two days afterwards the plaintiffs gave notice to the defendants that they (the plaintiffs) appealed to the Supreme
Court of the Territory from the order of the District Court,
made on the 13th of IVovember, 1862, overruling the motion for a
new trial.
On the same day of this notice the defendants filed a bond
-an undertaking-for the damages and costs. In this bond
they recite that it is given on an appeal from the order of
the District Court, made on the 13th of November, overruling
the motion for a new trial.
On the 22d of November, 1862, the counsel of both parties
agreed upon a statement; and it was declared in their agreeSPARROW

Dec. 1866.]

SPARROW V.

STRONG.

Statement of the case.

ment that the statement so settled was to be used on the
hearing in the Supreme Court of the appeal from the order
of the District Court refusing a new trial, which order is referred to in it as made on the 13th of November, 1862.
The statement comprised:
1. The motion of the plaintiffs for a new trial, and a specification of the grounds on which it was to be sustained; among
which are insufficiency of the defendants' evidence, surprise
at the trial, and newly-discovered evidence.
2. Certain evidence, oral and documentary, given on the
trial. There were no bills of exception to evidence embodied
in the statement; but in the specification of grounds it was
alleged that the evidence was excepted to.
3. The prayers of both parties for instructions to the jury
on questions of law, with the answers of the judge.
4. The general charge to the jury.
5. Affidavits of the parties, and of several other persons,
taken after trial, to prove surprise and newly-discovered evidence. One of these undertook to detail what a certain witness, who had been rejected, would have sworn if he had
been admitted.
On this statement, apparently, the case went into the Supreme Court of the Territory. No writ of error was taken
out; nor did bills of exception accompany the evidence; nor
was any assignment of error made in the Territorial Supreme
Court.
On the 16th of March,' 1863, the Supreme Court gave
judgment in the case as follows:
"On appeal from the District Court of the first judicial district in and for Story County.
"Now, on this day, this cause being called, and having been
argued and submitted and taken under advisement by the court,
and all and singular the law and the premises being by the court
here seen and fully considered, the opinion of the court herein is
delivered by Turner, C. J. (M~ott, I., concurring), to the effect
that the judgment below be affirmed.
"WlU(rcobre it is now ordered, ensidered, and adjudged by the
court here, that the judgment and decree of the District Court of

SPARROW V.

STRONG.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

the first judicial district in and for Story County, be and te same
is affirmed with costs."
From this judgment of the Supreme Court of Nevada a
writ of error, on the 14th of August, 1863, was taken here.
On the same day the plaintiff in error filed with the clerk
of the Supreme Court of the Territory the assignment o errors
for this court; that is to say, a specification of the grounds
on which they relied here fbr the reversal of the decision of.
the Territorial Supreme Court.
In those specifications they complained that the Supreme
Court of the Territory refused to reverse the judgment and order
of the District Court refusing a new trial. Then followed the
specific objections to the judgment and order, some of which
were matters offact.
On the same day that the writ of error from this court
was taken out and the errors assigned the plaintiffs petitioned for a citation. In that citation they described the
cause or subject-matter which it was their object to have reviewed in this court. They set forth that, after trial and
judgment in the District Court, they moved the same court
for a new trial; that it was refused on the 13th of November,
1862; that an appeal from that order was taken to the Supreme Court of the Territory; that in the latter court, on
the 16th of March, 1863, judgment was rendered "afirming
the order of said District Court;" that the plaintiffs afterwards
asked for a rehearing, which was denied them; hence the
writ of error.
This court, two terms ago, on the record being brought
before them, by a motion to dismiss the case on other
grounds assigned, doubted, on looking at the judgment of
affirmance above quoted, as given in the Supreme Court of
Nevada, whether it was a final judgment or decision reviewable here within the meaning of the act of Congress organizing the Territory, and which gave this court jurisdiction
to review "the final decisions" of the Supreme Court of the
Territory, and ordered that point to be argued. It was
accordingly argued; the argument turning chiefly on the
language of the affirmance.

Dec. 1866.] 0

SPARROW V.

STRONG.

Argument for the defendant in error.

After the argument, this court refused to dismiss the case
on the motion. It then said:*
"it is insisted, on this point, that the judgment is merely an

affirmance of the order of the District Court overruling the
motion for new trial. If this be so, the judgment itself is, in
substance and effect, nothing more; and it is settled that this
court will not review such an order. The granting or refusing
of new trials is a matter of discretion, with the exercise of
which, by the court below, this court will not interfere. The
circumstance that the discretion was exercised under a peculiar
statute by an appellate court, and on appeal, cannot withdraw
the case from the operation of the principles which control this
court.
"But the majority of the court does not feel at liberty to disregard the plain import of the terms of the judgment rendered
by the Supreme Court of the Territory. It does not purport to
be an order or judgment affirming an order overruling a motion
for new trial, but a judgment affirming the judgment or decree
of the District Court, and the only judgment or decree, which
we find in the record, is the judgment for the defendants in the
action of ejeetment.
"If this view be correct, the judgment of the Supreme Court
is one to review which a writ of error may be prosecuted."
The case was accordingly retained for a hearing in regular
course. It was now reached, and was argued fully on its
merits; the true nature of this judgment or decree of
affirmance and of every part of the matter of the jurisdiction being, however, again very fully discussed on a minute
examination of all parts of the record, with a presentation

of the Code of N~evada.
Messrs. W. 21. Stewart, and J. S. Black, for Mhe defendant

in error, after arguing the case on merits, contended that
the discussion of these ought never to arise in this court;
that it was manifest from the statement of the case that the
counsel of the plaintiff in errof expected this court to hear
them on the motion for a new trial, and to reverse the de* Sparrow v. Strong, 3 Wallace, 105.

SPARROW V.

STRONG.

[Sup. Ct-

Argument for the defendant in error.

cision of the Territorial court on that point by granting,
here, the new trial which, there, had been refused. The
language of the decree of affirmance of itself might be
doubtful if read by the distant lights of ancient technical
formularies; but it was not doubtful if read by the lights
which surrounded it, and which as modern ones are the true
ones by which to read it. The clerk has written, the "judgment and decree" of the District Court affirmed. But what
does he mean by "decree ?" No one will pretend that there
is any decree in the technical sense, in this case; that, by
any proceeding here taken this court has acquired jurisdiction of a decree in chancery; yet this pretence would be no
more unreasonable than the assertion that this court may
entertain jurisdiction of a judgment which was not before
the Territorial Supreme Court. The whole record shows
that the decision of the Territorial Supreme Court was
merely one of affirmance of whatever was before that court,
to wit, the order overruling the motion for a new trial.
It makes no substantial difference as to the form of the
decision, as long as its meaning is obvious. An order overruling a motion for a new trial is, in one sense, a judgment.
It is true, it is not technically a common law judgment, but
it is, nevertheless, a decision of a court, and in that sense it
is a judgment, and the record shows that that was the sense
in which the clerk used the words decree and judgment.
For his use of the word decree shows that he had little
knowledge of the technical use of legal terms. We submit,
therefore, that the decision of the Territorial Supreme Court
was nothing more nor less than an affirmance of an order
overruling a motion for new trial, of which this court has
no jurisdiction.
The mode of removing a cause, in Nevada, from an inferior court for review in a court of appellate jurisdiction was
prescribed by statute and is exclusive. It may be done, the
statute declares, "as presented in this title and not otherwise."* It is worth while to look at these provisions a little.
* See Statute Book, 861.

Dec. 1860.]

SPARROW V.

STRONG.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

They will make it plain that what was here affirmed, was
the action of the inferior court about a new trial.
Section 274, provides for appeals generally.
Section 285, shows in what cases and how an appeal may
be taken to the Supreme Court from. the District Court in
Chancery cases.
Section 802, prescribes the mode of removing "every final
judqme'nt, order,or decision of a -DistrictCourt, except in Chancery
eases," to the Supreme Court, to be re-examined for error in
law, and declares that it shall be done by writ of error.
Section 308, requires the errors to be specified.
Section 275, authorizes an appeal from an order of the
District Court granting or refusing a new trial.
Section 284, prescribes how the cause shall be taken up
when the appeal is made from an order.
Section 276, provides that a statement shall be made when
an appeal is taken from an order, just as it was made in this
case.
There was therefore no jurisdiction. If this court, when
the case was last here, intimated anything else, it was on an
imperfect view of the record; and now, that on such thorough view and full examination of every part of it, as the
argument on the merits gives, it sees the true history of the
case, it will dismiss the suit.
iFessrs. G. T. Curtis and C. O'Conner, contra:
When this same cause was before the court at a former
term, on a motion to dismiss, one of the grounds of the
motion was that the judgment of the Territorial Supreme
Court, now brought into this court for review and reversal,
was an affirmance of an order of an inferior court overruling a motion for a new trial. This court, after hearing
this point elaborately argued, held that the judgment of the
Supreme Court was not an affirmance of an order of the inferior court overruling a motion for a new trial; that it did
not purport at all to be an affirmance of an order overruling
a motion for a new trial; but that the plain import of its
terms is, that it affirmed a general judgment for the defend-

SPARROW V. STRONG.

[Sup. Ct

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

ants in the action. I-ence, it was held by this court that
the judgment of the Supreme Court is one which can be
reviewed in this court by writ of error, and the motion to
dismiss was denied.
The point, then, in relation to the plain import and effect
of the judgment of the Territorial Supreme Court, is really
res adjudicata, and ought not to be argued.
We submit, however,
1. That the proceeding under the Ievada code, called
therein a motion for a new trial, is a special method of review, intended to reach the verdict 4nd the judgment rendered in an action, and to bring the latter up for revision in
the court in which it was rendered; and that the appeal from
an order overruling such an application is intended to carry
into the appellate court, for its revision, the merits of the
judgment of the inferior court, and to enable the appellate
court tp act upon that judgment.
Our view of this proceeding is, that it is intended (as a
mode of review of a general judgment) for an alternative
method, with like efficacy and effect with an appeal from
such general judgment or a writ of error, and more convenient and more likely to be embraced, because it unites
in the same proceeding relief to be given in respect to the
weight of evidence, or newly discovered evidence, and relief
to be given, on account purely of erroneous rulings of law.
That it unites these two grounds of relief, can constitute no
solid objection to the re-examination, in this court, of the
pure questions of law contained in a record made under such
statute provisions, and brought here by writ of error. That
such is the character of this proceeding is shown, we think,
by the act of Congress* organizing this Territory, which
act committed to the regulation of the Territorial legislature the whole subject of "writs of error, bills of exceptions and appeals," from the Territorial District Courts to
the Supreme Court of the Territory; and by the Code of
Practice, adopted November 29th, 1861, by the Territorial
* Act of Congress, March 2d, 1861,

9; 12 Stat. at Large, 212.

Dec.1866.]

SPARROW V.

STRONG.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

legislature,: under authority conferred by the act of Congress aforesaid.
It wa certainly competent to the Territorial legislature,
under the broad authority conferred upon it, to provide any
form of appeal from the District to the Supreme Court, and
to give that form any scope and effect that it saw fit.
The Territorial Code of Practice, in civil cases, does not
prescribe or recognize a common-law bill of exceptions; and
it does prescribe and recognize a different mode of excepting to the rulings of a court at the trial of an action. It also
provides three modes of bringing errors of law under review
after a verdict and judgment; one of which is called a motion
for a new trial. The code recognizes but one form of civil
action, which it makes the same at law and in equity. It is
instituted by complaint.t But the distinction between suits
at law and suits in equity is not abolished.
Issues are either of law or of fact. If of fact in an action
at law, there may be a trial by jury.
When there is a trial of issues to a jury, the court is required to state to them all matters of law necessary for their
information in giving their verdict, and to furnish to the
parties a statement in writing of the points of law contained
in the charge, or to sign at the time a statement of such
points prepared and submitted by the counsel of either
party.1
This is not a bill of exceptions according to the statute of
Westminster; but something quite different, and obviously
intended as a substitute therefor. That it is so intended is
apparent from the definition of an exception given in § 188;
namely, "an objection taken, at the trial, to a decision upon
a matter of law."
It may be taken for the future purpose of a motion for a
new trial, or for the future purpose of an appeal (§ 188). It
may be delivered in writing: to the judge, or written down
by the clerk; or it may be noted on the judge's minutes, and
- Laws of Nevada Territory, 314-435
Code of Practice, title i, p. 314.

t

Id.

165, p. 341.

SPARROW V.

STRONG.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

afterwards settled in the "statement of the case," provided
by the code (§ 189). "1No particular form of exception shall
oe required" (§ 190).
After a verdict, "judgment" is to be entered by the clerk
in conformity therewith, within twenty-four hours after the
verdict (§ 197), and a "judgment is the final determination
of the rights of the parties in the action" (§ 144).
"Final judgments" in the District Courts may be reviewed on appeal to the Supreme Court, by appealing from
the "final judgment" rendered in an action commenced in
the District Courts, or brought there from another court;
and an "order" overruling a motion for a new trial may,
also, be appealed from (§ 285). Both are intended to reach
the final judgment of the District Court.
An appeal from the "final judgment" of course opens the
whole merits of the judgment. An appeal from an "order"
overruling a motion for a new trial may do this, and it also
has a function beyond; it may open the whole merits of the
judgment, and bring under review incidental errors not
properly reviewable on direct appeal from the judgment
alone. It may open only questions of fact, addressed to the
discretion of the court; or it may open questions of law,
addressed to the legal obligation of the court to decide
rightly on the law, according as the "statement of the case"
and the motion for a new trial did or did not include questions of law. This is apparent from various sections.*
Hence it appears that it was not true, in the courts of this
Territory, that motions for new trials necessarily involve only
questions addressed to the discretion of the court. They
may involve matters of discretion-as the weight of evidence, or newly discovered evidence; or they may involve
rulings of law, or they may involve both, according as the
"statement" and the "exceptions" are made up.
An appeal, therefore, from an order overruling a motion
for a new trial may bring into the appellate court a record
* See, on the points,

188, 189, 190, 191; 193, 194, 195; 271, 275, 276,

277, 278, 279, 280, 281, 282, 283 ; 285; 291.

Dec. 1866.1

SPARROW V. STRONG.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

which shows erroneous rulings of law; and if the order overruling the motion for a new trial is final in its nature, reaffirming, or leaving operative the general judgment previously rendered on the verdict, it is the proper subject of an
appeal; and if it be founded, in whole or in part, on rulings
of law at the trial, duly excepted to, the appeal from it
necessarily opens the merits of the general judgment, in
respect to the exceptions so taken.
2. The Supreme Court did act on the general judgment
of the District Court, and did affirm that judgment, without
authority, and when it only had authority to affirm or reverse
an order overruling a motion for a new trial; and for this
error, if it was one, we are entitled to a reversal of the judgment entered in the Territorial Supreme Court.
It is impossible to construe the judgment entered by the
Supreme Court as a mere affirmance of the order of the
District Court overruling the motion for a new trial. Either
the Supreme Court rightly supposed-as we conceive-that
the appeal from the order brought before it the general
judgment of the District Court for reversal or affirmauce,
or else it committed an error; for it made no order or decree
in direct reference to the order overruling the motion for a
new trial, but proceeded directly to the general judgment
of the District Court, which was the only judgment in the
record before it, and affirmed it. If the Supreme Court had
intended to act only on the order appealed from, it would
simply have dismissed that appeal, or have affirmed in terms
the order appealed from. It did not act on the mere order,
but acted on the judgment brought before it in the record;
and if the plaintiffs in error had never prosecuted this writ
of error, the defendants must in all time have found their
final evidence of title to this property in this record of the
Supreme Court of the Territory, affirming the judgment of
the District Court, by which .the claim of the plaintiffi was
negatived.
3. It can constitute no valid objection to the examination
by this court of any errors of law disclosed by this record,
that it contains no sealed bill of exceptions, or that the proVOL. IV.

38

SPARROW V. STRONG.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

ceeding by which the whole case was, after judgment entered,
brought under review, first in the District Court and then
in the Supreme Court, was denominated in the practice of
those courts a motion for a new trial.
The Nevada code* provides that "no particular form of
exception shall be required;" just as that of New Yorl does,t
that an exception shall "not be sealed or signed." Both
codes require the exception to be taken at the proper time,

and point out how the evidence that it was taken shall be
preserved; but under neither code can the judge, either before or after the judgment, be compelled to seal it. The decision in Pomeroy v. The Bank of Indiana,T cannot extend to
writs of error to all courts, even though their statutory practice excludes the requirement of a sealed bill of exceptions.
It applies only to the ruling of those where the Statute of
Westminster is of binding force.
[The learned counsel, after arguing all these and some
other points with great fulness and minute citations from
the code, proceeded to argue the case on its merits.]
The CH-EF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
This case was before us at the last term, upon motion to
dismiss the writ of error.
The suit, originally brought in the District Court for the
Territory of Nevada, was an action of ejeetment for an undivided interest in a mining claim.
Upon trial, there was a verdict and judgment for the
plaintiff. Subsequently, and in accordance with the statute
of Nevada, a motion for a new trial was made, which was
denied. An appeal was then taken to the Supreme Court
of the Territory, which gave judgment affirming the judgment or decree of the District Court.
We were asked to dismiss the writ, upon the ground that
this judgment affirmed only the order of the District Court
denying the motion for new trial, and was, therefore, not
reviewable here.
*

165, 188-91.

t-

264.

,8 1 Wallace, 592.

Dec. 1866.]

SPARROW V. STRONG.
Opinion of the court.

On opening the record, however, it was apparent that the
judgment of the appellate court was, in terms, an affirmance of the judgment or decree of the District Court, and
that the only judgment of that court, properly so called, was
the judgment for the defendants in the action of ejectment.
A majority of the court declined to look beyond the plain
import of the judgihent of affirmance, and examine the record farther, in order to ascertain whether there was anything in it which would limit its effect to an affirmance of
the order denying the motion for a new trial.
The motion to dismiss was therefore overruled; but we
then observed that, if the judgment of the Supreme Court
was, in substance and effect, nothing more than such an
affirmance, this court could not review it; and after stating
the familiar rule, that this court will not revise the exercise
of discretion by an inferior court, in granting or refusing
new trials, we said further: "The circumstance that the discretion was exercised under a peculiar statute, by an appellate court, and upon appeal, cannot withdraw the case from
the operation of the principles which control this court."
The cause has now been regularly heard, and fully argued,
and the first question for our consideration is that which
was left undccided at the last tcrm: "What Is the true nature and effect of the judgment of the Territorial Supreme
Court ?"
The record shows an action of ejectment by petition, answer, and replication-the form sanctioned by Territorial
law-regularly prosecuted in a Territorial District Court,
resulting in a verdict and judgment for the defendants.
The record shows, also, a motion for new trial overruled,
and a notice by the plaintiffs to the defendants of an appeal,
fiom the order overruling that motion, to the Supreme Court
of the Territory, and a bond of the plaintiffs, on appeal, reciting the appeal as made from that order.
Under the laws of Nevada, appeals are allowed from orders granting or refusing new trials; but it was necessary,
before an appeal could be perfected, that a statement of the
case, showing the grounds of appeal, should be filed. A

SPARROW V. STRONG.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

statement which had been used on the motion for new trial
was accordingly filed, under a stipulation signed by both
parties, which recited the notice of appeal as an appeal from
the overruling order.
There is no paper in the record which indicates that either
party understood that anything was before the appellate
court except that order. Nothing else, as it seems, was intended to be brought before it by the appellants, and nothing else was understood to be by the appellees.
If, then, the decision of that court is anything more than
an affirmance of the order of the District Court, it is not
what was expected by either party. It must not, therefore,
be held to be more, unless the principles of legal construction clearly require it.
Its terms, indeed, import an affirmance of the original
judgment; but are they incompatible with a more limited
sense? The decision is loosely and inaccurately expressed.
It purports to affirm a judgment and decree; but there was
no decree, in any proper sense of the word, in the District
Court. The words "judgment and decree" must, therefore,
have been used as equivalents; and "judgment" in such a
connection, may well have been regarded as the equivalent
of " decision or order."
It is probable, we think, that the court intended that its
judgment should be understood as a simple affirmance of
the order below. And such seems to have been the understanding of the appellants; for, in their prayer for a citation,
on appeal to this court, they describe their "appeal" to the
Supreme Court of the Territory as "taken fbr the reversal
of the order," in the District Court, and state that judgment
was given "affirming the order." We impose, then, no impossible, or even unnatural sense on the terms of the judgment, especially when considered in connection with the
whole record, when we hold it, as we do, to be nothing else
than an affirmance of the order overruling the motion for
new trial.
But, it was argued at bar, with ingenious ability, that this
judgment, if admitted to be merely an affirmance of the

Dec. 1866.]

SPARROW V.

STRONG.

Opinion of the court.

order of the District Court, was, nevertheless, a final judgment, subject to review, on a writ of error, by this court.
It was insisted, that under the peculiar legislation of Nevada,
an appeal from an order denying a motion for a new trial,
carried the original judgment and the whole cause before
the appellate court, and that the decision, upon appeal, operated as a judgment, reversing or affirming the*judgment
below.
But we do not so understand that legislation. The statutes of Nevada directed the judgment to be entered within
twenty-four hours after verdict, unless there was a stay of
proceeding; and the direction of the statutes was observed
in this case. But those statutes also provided for a motion
for new trial after judgment; and the effect of granting the
motion was to vacate the judgment and verdict, as in the
ordinary practice it would vacate the verdict only, and so
prevent the entry of judgment. With this exception, the
proceeding, on motion for new trial, in the court of original
jurisdiction, was not distinguishable, in any important respect, from the like proceeding in the District and Circuit
Courts of the United States. There was, however, another
peculiarity in respect to the finality of the proceeding. In
the latter courts, the decision upon such a motion is without
appeal. In the District Court of Nevada,'an appeal might
be taken to the Supreme Court; and, as we have seen, in
case of such appeal, a statement, showing the grounds of it,
must be filed, in order to perfect the proceeding.
But there is nothing in the statutes which gives, in terms,
any other or different effect to the reversing or affirming
order of the appellate court, than would attend the allowance or denial of the motion in the inferior court. Nor is
there anything in the statutes which seems intended to give
by implication any such other or different effect. On the
contrarT, the statutes provide for the ordinary mode of reversing: the judgments of inferior courts, by appellate tribunals, upon writs of error; which would hardly have been
done, if it was intended to give the same effect to appeals
from decisions upon motions for new trials.

BELL V.

RAILROAD COMPANY.

[Sup, Or.

Syllabus.

Decisions on such motions, by the District Courts, were
required to be made upon such grounds of law and facts as
the case might furnish; and upon like grounds were the
decisions of the Supreme Court, upon appeal, required to
be made. We cannot doubt that the decision of the District
Court, in such a case, was the exercise of a discretion not
reviewable in the Territorial Supreme Court, except under
an express statute of the Territory. And we are obliged to
think that the decision of the appellate court was equally an
exercise of discretion upon the law and the facts, and not
reviewable here in the absence of any act of Congress authorizing appeals in such cases.
This view of the preliminary question makes it unnecessary to examine the other important points in the case,
which have been so ably and exhaustively discussed by
counsel. We think the judgment of the Supreme Territorial Court only an order affirming the order of the District
Court denying a motion for new trial, and that it is therefore not reviewable here on error.
WRIT DISMISSED.

BELL V. RAILROAD COMPANY.
1. Minicipal corporations, such as the county boards of police usual in Mississippi, when authorized by statute to do acts which otherwise they
would have no power to do-such, for example, as subscribe to a railroad incorporated and beginning in another State and passing through
their own State-cannot modify or alter the subscription as authorized
by the statute. A compromise by such board with a railroad company
which does so modify or alter the subscription is, accordingly, void.
2. A sheriff, ex ofcio collector of taxes, who under the direction properly
given of such county police board has collected a tax which such board
was authorized by statute, upon certain conditions, to levy for the benefit of another body, a railroad company, has no right to decide whether
such municipal body has laid the tax rightly or not, or to settle differences between the tax-payers, the county, and the third body. If the
president of the board of police direct him to pay it to the third body
his duty is to pay it.

