Dec. 1866.]

SUPERVISORS

V.

UNITED STATES.

435

Statement of the case.

tion, and refused to take jurisdiction of the case.
matter is too plain for argument.

The

MOTION GRANTED.

SUPERVISORS V. UNITED STATES, EX RELATIONE
1. On application by a creditor for mandamus against county officers to levy
a tax to pay a judgment, the defendant cannot impeach the judgment by
setting up that interest was improperly given in it. This would be to
impeach it collaterally.
2. The statute of Illinois, which enacts that when ajudgment is given against
a county, the county cbmmissioner shall draw a warrant upon the treasurer for the amount, "which shall be paid as other county debts," cannot be taken advantage of on error, in case of an application for a mandamnus to levy a tax to pay a judgment, where such a warrant was applied
for and refused, and where there are no funds in the county treasury
with which to pay the judgment.
3. Where power is given by statute to public officers, in permissive language
-as that they "'may,if deemed advisable," do a certain thing-the language used will be regarded as peremptory where the public interest or
individual rights require that it should be.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois, the case being thus:
A statute of Illinois, of February 16th, 1863, enacts as

follows:
"The board of supervisors under township organization, in
such counties as may be owing debts which their current re'enue, under existing laws, is not sufficient to pay, may, ifdeemed
advisable, levy a special tax, not to exceed in any one year one
per cent. upon the taxable property of any such county, to be
assessed and collected in the same manner and at the same time
and rate of compensation as other county taxes, and when collected to be kept as a separate fund, in the county treasury, and
to be expended under the direction of the said county court or
board of supervisors, as the case may be, in liquidation of such
indebtedness."

*With this statute in force, the State Bank, relator in the

SUPERVISORS V. 'UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

case, was the holder of certain coupon bonds of the County
of Rock Island, originally issued and negotiated in payment
of stock of the Warsaw and Rockford Railroad Company,
for which the county had subscribed. They were issued
pursuant to law.
The coupons representing the interest for one year were
paid by the county; the necessary tax having been levied
and collected for that purpose. Subsequent payments, however, were not made, and at the March Term, 1863, the
relator recovered a judgment in the court below, upon
coupons overdue and unpaid, for $2554, and costs. Nothing was paid upon it, and there was no money in the county
treasury which could be so applied.
The relator subsequently requested the supervisors to collect the requisite amount by taxation, and to give him an
order on the county treasury for payment. They declined
to do either.
He then applied to the court below for a mandamus, compelling the supervisors, at their next regular meeting, to levy
a tax of sufficient amount to be applied to pay the judgment,
interest, and costs, and when collected to apply it accordingly. An alternative writ was issued.
The supervisors made a return, wherein numerous objections were taken to the issuing of a mandatory writ. Among
them were:
1. That the court below, in rendering judgment, had allowed intereston the coupons, from the day they became due.
2. That the respondent had no power to pay the judgment
except by issuing an order on the treasurer of Rock Island
County; the ground of this objection being a statute of Illinois, which enacts, that when a judgment is rendered against
a county, no execution shall issue, but that the county commissioners' court shall draw a warrant upon the treasurer for
the amount, "which shall be paid as other county debts."
3. In substance, that the respondent bad levied and collected the regular county taxes, and that the same had all
been needed and used for the ordinary current expenses of
the county.

Dec. 1866.]

SUPERVISORS V. UNITED STATES.

437

Argument against the mandamus.

The court below disallowed the return, and ordered that a
peremptory writ should issue, commanding the respondents,
at their next meeting for levying taxes, to levy a tax of not
more than one hundred cents on each one hundred dollars'
worth of taxable property in the county, but of sufficient
amount fully to pay the judgment, interest, and costs; and
that they set the same apart as a special fund for that purpose; and that they pay it over without unnecessary delay to
the relator.
The main question here in the case was whether, under
the act of February 16th, 1863, the respondents were compellable to levy and collect, by taxation, the amount specified
in the order of the court below; that is to say, in other
words, whether that expression of the statute, "may, if
deemed advisable," was permissive merely, or, under the circumstances of this case, obligatory.
The case was submitted on briefs.
Mir. Cook, for the Supervisors,plaintiffs in error:
I. Under the law, as settled in Illinois, counties cannot be
required to pay interest in any case, unless they specially
contracted to pay it.*
I. Under the statutes of Illinois, there is but one mode
in which payment of a judgment against a county can be
coerced, and that is by obtaining a county order from the
county authorities upon the county treasurer. A statute
provides this way, and provides none other. INecessarily,
therefore, it is the only mode in which a judgment can be
proceeded in.
III. The statute of February 16th, 1863, says the board
of supervisors "may, if deemed advisable, levy a special
tax."
If not deemed advisable, the tax is not to be levied, because these words cannot be rejected, and while they remain
there is no room for construction.
M
Madison County v.Bartlett, 1 Scammon, 71; Pike County v. Hosford, 11
Illinois, 175; City of Pekin v. Reynolds, 31 Id. 529.

438

SUPERVISORS V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. at.

Argument against the mandamus.

If the statute had simply said, "may lery a tax," it might
then well be argued, that in cases where the interests-of a
third party were concerned the court would construe may to
mean shall, and would enforce the levy. But it is not so
here. They may, upon a condition, and that condition is,
that the board and none other shall deem it advisable. This
statute does not repeal any other, but is in addition-it is
cumulative.
Suppose the statute had read, "shall, if deemed advisable,"-certainly its effect would not be in the least changed;
because it would still be necessary that the plaintiff deem it
advisable before it should levy.
If the words "may, if deemed advisable," vest discretion
in the plaintiff, then it cannot be controlled by the court.
If they vest the discretion in the court to determine when it
is advisable to levy a tax, then the board of supervisors
could not, in any case, levy a tax under that statute, unless
the court had first found it advisable and issued its mandate
to that effect directing it to be done.
A statute ought to be so construed that no clause, sentence, or word shall be superfluous, void, or insignificant.*
In The King v. The Juayor,t Ilolroyd, J., observes: "By
the charter, the mayor and aldermen are to elect such and
so many free burgesses as they shall think fit. It is not competent, therefore, to the court to grant a mandamus directing them to elect any."
In The Commonwealth v. The County Commissioners,j the first
section of an act made it the duty of the assessors to receive

from parents the names of children residing in their townships, and whose parents were unable to pay for their schooling, &c. The second section directed the assessor to send
the list to the teachers of schools within his township, &c.,
"whose duty it shall be to teach all such children as may
come to their schools, in the same manner as other children
* James v. Dubois, 1 Harrington, 285; Hutchen v. NTiblo, 4 Blackford,
148; Opinion of the Justices, 22 Pickering, 571; 5McCay v. Detroit and Erie
Plank fRoad Co., 2 Michigan, 138; Pearce v. Atwood, 13 Massachusetts, 336.
t 2 Barnwall and Oresswell, 584.
1 5 Binney, 536.

Dec. 1866.]

SUPERVISORS

V. UNITED STATES.

439

Argument against the mandamus.

shall be taught. It required the teachers to keep a day-book

and to enter in it the number of days each child should be
taught, and the amount of stationery furnished for the use
of the child, "from which book he shall make out his account against the county on oath or affirmation, agreeably
to the usual rates of charging for tuition in such schools;
which account, after being so examined or revised, he shall
prdsent to the county commissioners, who, if they approve
thereof, shall draw their order on the county treasurer for
the amount, which he is hereby directed to pay out of any
moneys in the treasury."
Upon a motion for mandamus against the commissioners,
the court says:
"The law has vested the commissioners with the power of
approving or disapproving of the account, and we cannot take
it away from them."
The mnandamus was refused.
In The People v. Supervisors of Albany,* a leading case, a
statute directed supervisors to allow a constable for certain
services "so much money as the supervisors shall judge he
reasonably deserves to have."
On motion for mandamus, to allow a certain sum claimed,
the court says:
"In the present case, whatever may be thought of the reasonableness of the allowance of the supervisors to the applicant, he
has no legal right to any particular sum. He has no right to
any money for the services performed but such as the supervisors shall in their discretion judge him entitled to. Should
we grant a peremptory mandamus what would be its command?
Certainly not to allow any specific sum. That would be taking
upon ourselves a discretion which the legislature have vested in
the supervisors; we could only command them to examine the
applicant's account, and, in the words of the statute, allow him
for his services such sum as they shall judge he reasonably deserves
to have; and this has been already done. Where a discretionary
* 12 Johnson, 416.

SUPERVISORS V. 'UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the mandamus.
power is vested in officers, and they have exercised that discretion, this court ought not to interfere, because they cannot control, and ought not to coerce that discretion. This may be a
hard case, and the party may be remediless; but that consideration cannot induce us to grant an unfit, and, as I believe, a
nugatory remedy."
In a note to Johnson's Cases,* the subject is very fully
treated, and the authorities cited. It is said:
"The writ of mandamus will not lie to control the discretion
of an inferior officer, for otherwise superior tribunals would
draw to themselves all matters of judgment, and officers would
in reality have none at all.
"Whenever a discretionary power is vested in officers, and
that discretion has been exercised, the court ought not to interfere, because they cannot control and ought not to coerce that
discretion.
"The writ of mandamus will lie to corporations, as to inferior
tribunals and officers, to compel them to exercise their discretion, though not to direct the manner of its exercise."
In United States v. Seaman, in this court,t Taney, C. J., giving the opinion of the court, says:
"The rule to be gathered from all these cases is too well settled to need further discussion. The mandamus cannot issue in
a case where discretion and judgment are to be exercised by the
officer."

Similar principles were declared in United States v. Guthrie.1
In the case at bar it will be observed that the relator demanded the levy of the tax, and that the board of supervisors, plaintiffs in error, refused to make it.
It thus appears that the board has exercised the discretion
t 17 Howard, 230.
Vol. 2, pp. 217-232.
1lb. 304; and see Towle v. The State, 3 Florida, 202; Chase v. Blackstone Canal Co., 10 Pickering, 246; Ex parte Black, 1 Ohio State, 30; McDougal v. Bell, 4 California, 178; 2NcGee v. Board of Supervisors, 10 Id.
376; The City v. McKean, 18 B. Monroe, 17.

Dec. 1866.]

SUPERVISORS

V. UNITED

STATES.

441

Argument in favor of the mandamus.

vested in it by the law of February 16th, 1863, and deemed
it unadvisable to levy the tax to pay the defendant's debt.
.Mr.James Grant, contra:
I. This being a mandamus to collect a judgment, any error
in the judgment to collect which it is brought, only comes
collaterally in question, and therefore the question is not before this court.
II. As to the second point, we answer that the county
treasurer has no funds; and that this mandamus was brought
to compel the board of supervisors to levy a tax, to provide
them. The argument, as to the method of paying debts when
the money is at hand to do it with, has nothing to do with
the question of raising the money to pay them with, when
no money can otherwise be had.
IlI. Passing to the important question in the case, we insist that the words "if deemed advisable" have the same
legal signification as the word "may" alone, or "shall have
power," and no other.
In Mason v. _yearson,* in this court, the words "it shall
be lawful," are construed as mandatory. In laying down
the rule for the construction of words of permission, the
court says: "WVhenever it is provided that a corporation or
officer ' may' act in a certain way, or that it ' shall be lawful' for them to act in a certain way, it may be insisted on
as a duty for them to act so, if the matter, as here, is devolved on a public officer, and relates to the public or third
persons."t
And, again:
"Without going into more details, these cases fully sustain
the doctrine, that what a public corp6ration or officer is em' 9 Howard, 237.
-- Citing Rex & Regina v. Barlow, 2 Salkeld, 609; The King v. The Inhabitants of Derby, Skinner, 370; Blackwell's Case, I Vernon, 152-154;
Newburg Turnpike Co. v. Iiller, 5 Johnson's Chancery, 113; City of New
York v. Furze, 3 Hill, 612-614; Mlinor et al. v. The Mechanics' Bank, I
Peters, 64.

SUPERVISORS

v.

"UNITED STATES.

[Sup. at.

Argument in favor of the mandamus.

powered to do for others, and it is beneficial to them to have
done, the law holds he ought to do."
In The Commonwealth v. The City of Pitsburg,* Grier, J., on
the circuit, says:
"It is absurd to argue that conferring such a power (taxation
to pay bonds) is imposing no duty. The select and common
council are public agents, created to perform a public trust.
One of the purposes of their creation is, that they may provide
for the payment of the debts of the city. It is true that the
act of February 7th, 1863, only declares that the city shall have
power to make provision for the payment of the principal and
interest of the money borrowed, by the assessment and collection of a tax, but in the statute the word ' may' means 'must'
or ' shall' in cases where the public interest and right are concerned, and where the public or third parties have a claim de
jure, that the power should be exercised."
The argument for the plaintiff in this case is based on a
mistaken idea of what discretion is. An examination of
authorities will show that disputed facts are necessary to
found a "discretion," or a " deliberative judgment," (in the
sense used in the authorities) upon. In the case of The
People v. Supreme Court of .New York,t the nature of a "discretion" that cannot be controlled by the courts is discussed.
The court says:
"It is that discretion which is not and cannot be governed by
any fixed rules. We will not act upon our judgment in opposition to the judgment of a board of supervisors as to what is a
reasonable compensation for services performed by a constable.
..... It is to their judgment and discretion and not to ours,
which the legislature has left that matter."
They add, that had the board of supervisors refused to
grant anything on the ground that they had no discretion,
or that the officer had no right to any compensation, they
* American Law iRegister, vol. 3, 292.

t 5 "Wendell, 125.

Dec. 1866.]

SUPERVISORS V. UNITED STATES.
Argument in favor of the mandamus.

would have interfered to "set them in motion and determine the law, for they are legal duties and legal rights if
they exist at all."
It appears from authorities* that if the facts are not disputed, there is no "discretion" to exercise, and in this case
the facts are admitted. If it is contended that the supervisors are to render a deliberative judgment on the law, we
answer, that by the constitution of Illinois,t they can have
no judicial powers, and if they could have such power, it
can be controlled by the court.1
We think that an examination of the authorities cited by
the plaintiff in error, will show that in every case cited, the
respondents were to judge of facts more or less uncertain, or
otherwise were invested with judicial powers.
In The Commonwealth v. The County Commissioners, cited on
the other side, the court say:
"The law has vested the commissioners with the power of
approving or disapproving of the account, and we cannot take
it away from them."'
The law provided that the commissioners should draw an
order if they approved of the bill.
In The People v. Supervisors of Albany, the applicant by
law was to have such sum as they (the supervisors) shall
judge he reasonably deserves to have. The supervisors had
passed the claim, and the court says, this was a discretion
left to the supervisors, which we cannot control, that the
relator was not entitled to any particular sum, and that the
amount to which he was entitled was by the very contract
to be determined by the supervisors.
The case of United States v. Seaman, is decided on the
ground, that the superintendent of printing was obliged "to
The People v. The Supreme Court, 10 Wendell, 275-290; Anon., 2
Halst. 100; Rex v. Justices of Worcestershire, 1 Chitty, 649; Rex v. Justices of Carnarvon, 4 Barnwall & Alderson, 86; Rex v. Justices of Monmouthshire, 4 Barnwall & Creswell, 844.
t Article ii, Sections 1 and 2, and Article v, Section 1.
$ 5 Ohio State, 538; State of Ohio, Ex. rel., &c., v. Chase.

SUPERVISORS V. UNITED

STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

examine evidence, and form his judgment before he acted;
and whenever that is to be done, it is not a case for a mandamus."
In the case of United States v. Guthrie, the court says:
"The only legitimate inquiry for our determination upon the
case before us is this: Whether under the organization of the
Federal government, or by any known principle of law, there
can be asserted a power in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Columbia, or in this court, to command
the withdrawal of a sum or sums of money from the Treasury
of the United States, to be applied in satisfaction of disputed or
controverted claims against the United States."
The decision of the Circuit Court, overruling the application, was approved.
After examining a great number of cases (though not
perhaps all the authorities quoted by plaintiff in error), we
find none in conflict with the position assumed in this argument.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court,
T
having first stated the case.
We have not had the benefit of an oral argument upon
either side. The case was submitted upon printed briefs.
We shall confine our examination to the points thus brought
to our attention.
In the return of the respondents to the alternative writ
numerous objections were taken in regard to which their
brief is silent. We take it for granted they have been
abandoned, and shall not consider them.
I. It is said the court below, in rendering the judgment,
allowed interest upon the coupons from the time they became due.
The judgment cannot be thus collaterally questioned. It
can be impeached only in a proceeding had directly for that
purpose.*
* Bank of Wooster v. Stevens, 1 Ohio State, 233.

Dec.

1860.]

SUPERVISORS V. "hUTED STATES.
Opinion of the court.

H. A statute of Illinois provides that when a judgment is
rendered against a county no execution shall issue, but that
the county commissioners' court shall draw a warrant upon
the treasurer for the amount, "which shall be paid as other
coungy debts."
Such a warrant was applied for and refused, after the
rendition of the judgment. If the judgment of the court
below is sustained, a warrant can yet be issued when the
fund to pay the judgment is provided, if a warrant be necessary to complete the obedience of the respondents in paying
over the money according to the command of the writ.
There is nothing in the objection as a matter of error.
I[. The important question in the case is whether the
respondents are compellable to levy and collect, by taxation,
the amount specified in the order of the court below.
The writ, if issued, must conform to the order.

The court below proceeded upon the act of February
16th, 1863. 'We have not found it necessary to consider any
of the other acts refeared to in the briefs.
That act declares that "the board of supervisors under
township organization, in such counties as may be owing
debts which their current revenue, under existing laws, is
not sufficient to pay, may, if deemed advisable, levy a special
tax, not to exceed in any one year one per cent. upon the
taxable property of any such county, to be assessed and collected in the same manner and at the same time and rate of
compensation as other county taxes, and when collected to
be kept as a separate fund, in the county treasury, and to be
expended under the direction of the said county court or
board of supervisors, as the case may be, in liquidation of
such indebtedness."
The counsel for the respondent insists, with zeal and
ability, that the authority thus given involves no duty; that
it depends for its exercise wholly upon the judgment of the
supervisors, and that judicial action cannot control the discretion with which the statute has clothed them. We cannot
concur in this view of the subject. Great stress is laid by
the learned counsel upon the language, "may, if deemed ad-

SUPERVISORS

V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

visable," which accompanies the grant of power, and, as he
contends, qualifies it to the extent assumed in his argument.
In The King v. The Inhabitantsof Derby,* there was an indictment against "diverse inhabitants" for refusing to meet
and make a rate to pay "the constables' tax." The defendants moved to quash the indictment, "because they are not
compellable, but the statute only says that they may, so that
they have their election, and no coercion shall be." The
court held that "may, in the case of a public officer, is tantamount to shall, and if he does not do it, he shall be punished
upon an information, and though he may be commanded by
a writ, this is but an aggravation of his contempt."
In The King and Queen v. Barlow,t there was an indictment upon the same statute, and the same objection was
taken. The court said: "When a statute directs the doing
of a thing for the sake of justice or the public good, the
word may is the same as the word shall: thus, 23 Hen. VI,
says the sheriff may take bail. This is construed he shall, for
he is compellable to do so."
These are the earliest and the leading cases upon the subject. They have been followed in numerous English and
Anerican adjudications. The rule they lay down is the
settled law of both countries.
In The Mayor of the City of New Yorkt and in 31ason v.
_earson,ยง the words "it shall be lawful" were held also to
be mandatory.1
The conclusion to be deduced from the authorities is, that
where power is given to public officers, in the language of
the act before us, or in equivalent language-whenever the
public interest or individual rights call for its exercise-the
Skinner, 370.
t 2 Salkeld, 609.
3 Hill, 614.
9 Howard, 248.
[[See The Attorney-General v. Locke, 3 Atkyns, 164; Blackwell's case, I
Vernon, 152; Dwarris on Stat. 712; Malcom v. Rogers, 5 Cowen, 188; Newburg Turnpike Co. v. Miller, 5 Johnson's Chancery, 118; Justices of Clark
County Court v. The P. & W. & K. R. T. Co., 11 B. Monroe, 143; Minner
et al. v. The Merchants' Bank, 1 Peters, 64; Corn v. Johnson, 2 Binney,
275; Virginia v. The Justices, 2 Virginia Cases, 9; Ohio ex rel. v. The
Governor, 5 Ohio State, 53; Coy v. The City Council of Lyons, 17 Iowa, 1.

Dec. 1866.]

DAVIDSON V. LANIER.
Syllabus.

language used, though permissive in form, is in fact peremptory. What they are empowered to do for a third person the law requires shall be done. The power is given,
not for their benefit, but for his. It is placed with the
depositary to meet the demands of right, and to prevent a
failure of justice. It is given as a remedy to those entitled
to invoke its aid, and who would otherwise be remediless.
In all such cases it is held that the intent of the legislature, which is the test, was not to devolve a mere discretion,
but to impose "a positive and absolute duty."
The line which separates this class of cases from those
which involve the exercise of a discretion, judicial in its
nature, which courts cannot control, is too obvious to require remark. This case clearly does not fall within the
latter category. *
The Circuit Court properly awarded a peremptory writ
of mandamus. We find no error in the record. The judgment below is
AFFIRMED.

DAVIDSON V. LANIER.
1. It is not required that a writ of error be allowed by a judge. It is enough
that it is issued and served by copy lodged with the clerk of the court to
which it is directed.
2. A mistake in the date of the writ of error is not important, when it is
clear that such mistake is a clerical one merely, and when, from the
judgment described and the number given to it, the party cannot be
misled.
8. A statute declared by its title to be "an act to suppress private banking,"
and making it penal to " erect, establish, institute, or put in operation,
or to issue any bills or notes for the purpose of erecting, establishing, or
putting in operation any banking institution, association, or concern,"
covers with its prohibition not only the primary steps' in establishing
and putting into operation the bank, but also the whole range of its
transactions, by which illegitimate currency is imposed on a commuThe People v. Sup. Court, 5 Wendell, 125; The People v. Sup. Court,
10 Wendell, 289; The People v. Vermilyea, 7 Cowen, 393; Hull v. Supervisors, 19 John, 260.

