THE NASSAU.

[Sap. Ct.

Syllabus.

to him to be expedient and proper, and having exercised
that discretion it is not possible to hold that the discontinuance was unlawful.
Learned counsel will hardly contend that Congress might
not have discontinued that office, and our conclusion is that
the same effects flow from the discontinuance in this case as
if it had been directly declared by an act of Congress.
Defendant, when the post-office was discontinued, ceased
to be postmaster at Kensington, because there was no longer
any post-office at that place. He was never entitled to any
compensation except commissions and receipts from. boxes,
and those sources of compensation were extinguished when
the post-office was discontinued, and he lost nothing to which
he was entitled.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is therefore
AFFIIuMED.

THE NASSAU.
1. The jurisdiction of a court of admiralty over a vessel captured jure belli,
is determined by the fact of capture. The filing of a libel is not necessary to create it.
2. When, under the act of Congress of the 25th March, 1862, for the better
administration of the law of prize (12 Stat. at Large, 374), the prize
commissioners authorized by the act certify to a District Court that a
prize vessel has arrived in their district, and has been delivered into their
hands,,this is sufficient evidence to the court that the vessel is claimed
as a prize of war and in its jurisdiction as a prize court.
8. Demands against property captured as prize of war must be adjusted in
a prize court. The property arrested as prize is not attachable at the
suit of private parties. If such parties have claims which, in their
view, override the rights of captors, they must present them to the
prize court for settlement.
4. Whether a maritime lien for work and materials alleged to have been
furnished to a vessel prior to her capture jure belfi is lost by such capture, is a proper subject for investigation and decision by the prize cburt
before which the captured vessel is brought for adjudication; and which
the parties setting up such lien can, on presentation of their claim to
that tribunal, properly have decided.

Dec. 1866.]

THE NASSAU.
Statement of the case.

5. But if such parties do not so present and ask to have it decided, the question is not properly before this court for review, in a case where the
District Court has only dismissed the libel as improperly filed on its
instance side.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Southern District of New York; the case being thus:
On the 17th of June, 1862, Hlarlan, Holiingsworth & Co.,
a mercantile firm doing business at Wilmington, Delaware,
filed a libel in admiralty, on the instance side of the District
Court for the Southern District of New York, against the
steamship Nassau, then in the port of New York, for repairs
done to, and materials furnished for, the said vessel, in June,
1860. On the same day, in obedience to a monition properly issued, the marshal attached the vessel, and made return
that she was at the time in the custody of the prize commissioners. Afterwards, on the 27th day of June, the prize
commissioners certified that the steamer, an alleged prize
of war, arrived at the port of New York on the 2d day of
June, and was delivered into their hands, and was then in
their custody. These commissioners, it may be here stated,
were officers acting under the authority of an act of Congress,- which directs, that when any property captured as
prize is brought into any district of the United States for
.adjudication, it shall be the duty of the prize commissioners
to receive and keep it until by proper process of the court
it shall be placed in the custody of the marshal.
A motion having been made by the district attorney, intervening for the United States, to dismiss the libel-on the
ground that a vessel under arrest as prize of war was within
the cognizance of the prize court, and could not be attached
in a private action, and that all legal and equitable demands
against her must be adjudicated in the prize court-the District Court sustained the motion, and dismissed the libel;
and the Circuit Court, on appeal, affirmed the decree. The
case was now brought here to review that decision; the
libellants insisting that the order of dismissal was without
authority of law.
* Act of 25th March, 1862, 12 Stat. at Large, 374.

TnE

NbASSAU.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the material-men.

Mr. J. T. Williams, for the appellants:
It will be readily inferred from the dates in this case-and
the fact will doubtless be conceded to be so-that it was in
consequence of the Rebellion, and the suspension of the
authority of the Federal courts in the Southern ports, the
ports between which the Nassau was doubtless plying,-that
the libellants were forced to wait from June, 1860, when the
repairs, which are the foundation of this suit, were made, till
June, 1862, when they filed their libel, before they could
pursue their claim. In the beginning of our civil war the
vessel, no doubt, sailed from a Southern port, and nothing
more seems to have been heard of her by these libellants
who had given their labor to her until June, 1862, when
she came into the port of New York, and was delivered into
the hands of the "prize commissioners." The case shows
that thereupon, immediately, on the 17th June, 1862, and
before any prize suit had been commenced, or the prize commissioners had certified that she was in their hands, the
libellants filed their libel in the District Court for
ew
York, setting up their claim and maritime lien, and praying
the usual process and sale for payment.
For the purposes of the present argument, the claim of
the libellants must, of course, be taken to be just and legal,

and one that would have been pronounced for, bad not
the libel been, at the instance of the government, summarily
dismissed. The government cannot here argue that the
claim was unjust or doubtful, and so beg the question upon
a hearing of which it has deprived the party asserting the
claim.
This being so, is it law-while a vessel is in the hands of
prize commissioners, no otherwise than as an alleged prize
of war-it not being shown how she came into the hands
of such commissioners, nor in any respect how, or on what,
the government claim is founded-that no private citizen
can proceed against her in a civil action, to bring her into
the District Court upon a claim confessedly legal and meritorious?
Such a proposition cannot be maintained.

Dec. 1866.]

THE NASSAU.
Argument for the material-men.

At the time when the libellants filed their libel for repairs
and materials, no libel in prize had been filed. The vessel
was not within the jurisdiction of any court. Certainly,
until a libel in prize had been filed, any one had a right to
proceed against the vessel for a meritorious claim. Suppose
the government had never filed a libel. How then? This
libel of ours was not only filed before the government filed
any of theirs, but, for aught that appears, before it had
a design of filing one. Even the commissioners had not
acted.
Of course, there can be no pretence of a conflict of jurisdiction. The libellants did not seek to take the vessel out of
the jurisdiction of one court and bring her into the jurisdiction of another. They first brought her within the jarisdiction of a court having general jurisdiction, not only of
their claim, but of the claims of their antagonists.
It cannot be questioned that the District Courts of the
United States have concurrent jurisdiction in prize as well
as in admiralty. The jurisdiction of the prize court in England-which is a special jurisdiction, conferred by a special
commission from the Crown, and only when the exigencies
of war seem to require it-extends, no doubt, only to cases
of prize. But in this country prize courts and the courts of
admiralty are blended-consolidated under one and the same
statutory jurisdiction-and although the practice in prize
cases varies somewhat, in some particulars, from that which
obtains in admiralty cases, the jurisdiction is one and the
same.
The Judiciary Act* provides that the District Courts shall
"have eclusive original cognizance of all civil causes of
admiralty and maritime jurisdiction;" and similar provision
is made by the act of 1812, "concerning letters of marque,
prize, and prize goods,"t which enacts that "the District
Courts of the United States shall have exclusive original
cognizance of all prizes brought into the United States, as
in civil causes of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction."
*

9.

t

6, Stat. at Large, 761.

THE

ASSAU.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the material-men.

In Glass v. Sloop Betsy,* which was a decision prior to the
act of 1812, the court say:
"The truth is, Admiralty is the genus; Instance and Prize
Courts are the species, comprehended in the grant of admiralty
jurisdiction."
We must beware, then, .how we attempt to apply to our
courts the dicta, or even the adjudications, of English tribunals. The foundations of the respective jurisdictions being
wholly different, nothing but confusion and error can, by
such attempts, ensue.
These matters being settled, we may confidently argue
that no title, whether it be derived from capture as prize of
war or otherwise, can be higher than that which is acquired
by purchase. Whatever may be the legal altitude of the
claim of the government to the vessel in question, a citizen
may ask of a court that it hear him as a citizen suitor, asserting a superior prior claim to the whole, or some portion
of it; and his claim, in such a case, ought not to be dismissed without a hearing.
Between a claim from purchase and a lien for repairs
made in good faith, in furtherance of the public interest, in
full reliance upon a universal principle of law, which has
had the sanction of all nations for a thousand years-law
which, unlike a contract, bends to no local interpretation,
but is alike uniform and universal-there can be no essential
difference.
But were it never so well settled that a valid prize claim
overrides a lien and claim like that of the libellants, no one
will.pretend that an invalid prize claim will have the same
effect. And will the court assume that this "prize claim"
was valid when no fact appears upon the record to show it,
and the government was not able to assert that the vessel was
anything more than "an alleged prize of war ?" Or assume
that, had the libellants been permitted to do so, they would
not have been able to show that this alleged claim was not a
* 3 Dallas, 12.

Dec. 1866.]

THE IrTASSAU.
Argument for the material-men.

valid one? If invalid, can the government be heard t6 dispute the claim of the libellants?
What the libellauts did in this case was in accordance
with ancient practice. A vessel can be libelled by as many
and as various parties and actions as a man can be sued by.
Coming in as a claimant or petitioner in the suit of another
is permitted only in special cases, and the practice is not
favored. It was competent for the government to intervene
in the suit of the libellants, and to contest the validity of
their claim and lien, on whatever ground they saw fit, and,
if successful, they had the field to themselves, so far as the
libellants were concerned. They could probably, even in
that suit, have asked for a sentence of condemnation of the
vessel; or, perhaps more orderly, they should have filed a
separate libel for that purpose. But the libellants had no
possible way of presenting their claim to the adjudication
of the court but by filing an original libel. It cannot be
suggested that their situation would have been better if they
had waited till after the government bad filed its libel. As
we have already asked, what if the government had never
done so? Or how can it be said that the government had a
right to file its libel first; or that, if the libellants had filed
theirs after the government had filed its, a motion to dismiss would not have been granted with equal propriety?
The action of the District Court proceeded, of course, on
the ground that a prize condemnation had the effect to
efface all maritime liens; the court forgetting that a prize
condemnation had not taken place, and that there was as
yet no evidence upon which the court could pronounce such
condemnation.
I1. A valid claim to a vessel as prize of war, does not
efface or override the claim and lien upon her, given to a
material-man by the general maritime law.
The principle that a forfeiture, as prize, has no such effect
upon a maritime lien given by the general maritime law,
was admitted by Sir William Scott, in the Vrow Sarah,*
* fReferred to in a note in 1 Dodson's Admiralty, p. 355-6.

T11B NASSAU.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

also in The Constantia,* and claims founded on such liens
were allowed, even in an English prize court. In The _Belvidere, the same learned judge admitted that prize did not
override a "positive lien upon the ship."
The Tobago, and some other cases cited upon the brief of
the other side, are distinguishable.
[The learned counsel then went into a critical and very
learned examination of these cases, endeavoring to distinguish them from the present.]
3.r. Ashton, Assistant Attorney- General, contra:
1. The vessel having been, at the time of the filing of the
libel, in the possession of the prize commissioners, was in
the custody of the law, and subject only to the orders and
decrees of the prize court of admiralty.t
2. Whether a mere lien on property captured jure belli is or
is not an interest sufficient to support a claim in a court of
prize-a point that opposing counsel have argued so learnedly-is a question which really does not arise in the case as
it now stands here. The District Court-as an instance court
of admiralty-bad no jurisdiction of the libel filed by these
libellants in a case where the vessel had been captured and
was plainly about to be proceeded in as prize of war. The
point made need not, therefore, be replied to.
Yet we apprehend it to be clear, on the authority of
American not less than of English cases,T that such mere
lien is not maintainable op the prize side of the District
Courts against the vessel, or the proceeds thereof, and hence
that the order of the court below dismissing the one set up
in this case, was right. Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
It is the practice with civilized nations, when a vessel is
232.
t 1 Kent's Commentaries, 101-103, and cases cited; Act of March 25,1862.
1 The Eenrom, 2 Robinson, 5; The Tobago, 5 Id. 222; The Marianna, 6
Id. 24; The Frances (Thompson's Claim), 8 Cranch, 335; Id. (Irvin's
Claim), Id. 418; Bolch v. Darrell, Bee, 74; The Mary, 9 Cranch, 126:
*Edwards,

Dec. 1866.]

THE

N ASSAU.

Opinion of the court.

captured at sea as a prize of war, to bring her into some
convenient port of the government of the captor for adjudication. The title is not transferred by the mere fact of capture, but it is the duty of the captor to send his prize home,
in order that a judicial inquiry may be instituted to determine whether the capture was lawful, and if so, to settle all
intervening claims of property. Until there is a sentence
of condemnation or restitution, the capture is held by the
government in trust for those who, by the decree of the
court, may have the ultimate right to it.
But it is argued that the libel in this case was sustainable,
because no libel in prize had been filed, and until this was
done any one had the right to proceed against the vessel for
a meritorious claim. If this were so, it would greatly lessen,
with captors, the stimulus to activity so necessary in time
of war, for they could never tell how many private actions
they would have to defend before they could reap the fruits
of their enterprise and valor. Sound policy, as well as the
law of prize, therefore, requires that all demands against
captured property must be adjusted in a prize court, and
that the property arrested as prize shall not be attachable
at the suit of private parties. If such parties have claims
which, in their view, overridp the rights of captors, they
must present them to the prize court for settlement.
The fact of capture determines the jurisdiction, and not
the filing of a libel. When captured as prize of war the
property is in the custody of the.law, and remains there to
await the decision of a prize court, and, if condemned, all
claims to the property are by it adjusted. Any other rule
would work great hardship to captors, and tend to cripple
the operations of government during time of war. Under
the provisions of the act of Congress for the better administration of the law of prize,' it is directed that, whenever
any property captured as a prize is brought into any district
of the United States for adjudication, it shall be theoduty of
the prize commissioners to receive it and keep it, until by
* 12 Stat. at Large, 374.
VOL. Iv.

41

UNITED STATES V. LE BARON.

[Sup. t

Statement of the case.

the proper process of the court, it shall be placed in. the custody of the marshal of the district.
When, therefore, in this case, the prize commissioners
certified to the court below that the prize steamer Nassan
had arrived in the District of New York, and was delivered
into their hands, there was sufficient evidence before the
court that the vessel was claimed as prize of war, and in the
jurisdiction of a prize court; and the motion to dismiss this
libel, filed by private parties, was properly entertained and
decided.
Whether a maritime lien, like the one in this case, is lost,
when the property is captured jure belli, would have been a
proper question for investigation and decision by the prize
court that condemned the Nassau, and which the libellants,
on presentation to that tribunal, could have had decided.
Not having done so, the question is not before this court
for review.
The decree of the Circuit Court is
_AFFIRMED.

UNITED STATES V.

LE

BARON.

1. 'When a contract is alleged by the pleadings to have been made on a certain day, it is no variance to offer in evidence a written contract which
took effect on a different day.
2. If it be proved that a bond bearing date the first day of the month, did
not become obligatory until .the fifteenth, this is no variance, although
the bond is counted on in the pleadings as a contract made on the first
day .ofthe month and bearing that date.

ERR-o to the Circuit Court for the Southern District of
Alabama.
This was an action of debt brought by the United States
against Le Baron, surety of Beers, deputy postmaster at
Mobile, on an official bond, dated thefirst of July, 1850.
The declaration set out"For that whereas, heretofore, to wit, on the first day of Juy,
A. D. 1850, at Mobile, to wit, in the State aforesaid and within

