Dec. 1866.]*

THE

EINE

v. TREVOR.

Syllabus.

corporation to contract and to exercise the power of local
taxation to the extent necessary to meet its engagements,
the power thus given cannot be withdrawn until the contract
is satisfied. The State and the corporation, in such cases,
are equally bound. The power given becomes a trust which
the donor cannot annul, and which the donee is bound to
execute; and neither the State nor the corporation can any
more impair the obligation of the contract in this way. than
in any other.*
The laws requiring taxes to the requisite amount to be
collected, in force when the bonds were issued, are still in
force for all the purposes of this case. The act of 1863 is,
so far as it affects these bonds, a nullity. It is the duty of
the city to impose and collect the taxes in all respects as if
that act had not been passed. A different result would leave
nothing of the contract, but an abstract right-of no practical value-and render*the protection of the Constitution a
shadow and a delusion.
The Circuit Court erred in overruling the application for
a ma)damus. The judgment of that court is REVERSED, and
the cause will be remanded, with instructions to proceed
IN CONFORMITY WITH THIS OPINION.

THE HEin v.

TREvoR.

1. The doctrine of the case of The Genesee Chief, 12 Howard, that the admiralty jurisdiction of the Federal courts, as granted by the Constitution,
as not limited to tide-water, but extends wherever vessels float and navigation successfully aids commerce, approved and affirmed.
2. The grant of admiralty powers to the District Courts of the United States,
by the ninth section of the act of September 24th, 1789, is coextensive
with this grant in the Constitution, as to the character of the waterQ
over which it extends.
" People v. Bell, 10 California, 570; Dominic v. Sayre, 3 Sandford, 555.

TiE INE v. TREvoR.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
3. The act of February 26th, 1845, is a limitation of the powers granted by
the act of 1789, as regards cases arising upon the lakes and narigable
waters connectingsaid lakes, in the following particulars:
1. It limits the jurisdiction to vessels of twenty tons burden and upwards, enrolled and licensed for the coasting trade, and which
are employed in commerce and navigation, between ports and
places in different States.
2. It grants a jury trial, if either party shall demand it.
3. The jurisdiction is not exclusive, but is expressly made concurrent
with such remedies as may be given by State laws.
4. The grant of original admiralty jurisdiction by the act of 1789, including
as it does all cases not covered by the act of 1845, is exclusive, not only
of all other Federal courts, but of all State courts.
5. Therefore, State statutes, which attempt to confer upon State courts a
remedy for marine torts and marine contracts, by proceedings strictly
in rem, are void; because they are in conflict with that act of Congress,
except as to cases arising on the lakes and their connecting waters.
6. These statutes do not come within the saving clause of the ninth section
of the act of 1789, concerning a common-law remedy.
7. But this rule does not prevent the seizure and sale, by the State courts,
of the interest of any owner, or part owner, in a vessel, by attachment
or by general execution, when the proceeding is a personal action
against such owner, to recover a debt for which he is personally liable.
8. Nor does it prevent any action which the common law gives for obtaining a judgment inpersonam against a party liable in a marine contracL,
or a marine tort.

ERRoR to the Supreme Court of the State of Iowa; the

case, as disclosed by the record, having been in substance
this:
A collision occurred between the steamboats ine and
Sunshine, on the 1ississippi River, at or near St. Louis, in
which the latter vessel was injnred. Some months afterwards, the owners of the Sunshine caused the Hine to be
seized while she was lying at Davenport, Iowa, in a proceeding under the laws of that State, to subject her to sale in satisfaction of the damages sustained by their vessel. The code
of Iowa, under which this seizure was made, gives a lien
against any boat found in the waters of that State, for injury
to person or property by said boat, officers or crew, &c.;
gives precedence in liens; authorizes the seizure and sale
of the boat, without any process against the wrongdoer,
whether oyner or master, and saves the plaintiff all his

Dec. 1866.]

THE HINE v. TnEvoR.
Statement of the case.

common-law rights, but makes no provision to protect the
owner of the vessel.
The owners of the line interposed a plea to thejurisdiction
of the State court. The point being ruled against them, it
was carried to the Supreme Court of the State, where the
judgment of the lower court was affirmed; and by the present writ of error this court was called upon to reverse that
decision.
To comprehend the argument fully, it is here well to
state that Congress had, prior to the date of this proceeding, enacted1. In 1789, September 24th, by the Judiciary Act, that
the District Courts of the United States "shall have exclusive original cognizance of all civil causes of admiralty and
maritime jurisdiction, including all seizures under the laws
of impost, navigation, or trade of the United States, where
the seizures are made on waters which are navigable from
the sea by vessels of ten or more tons burden. . . . Saving to
suitors, in all eases, the right of a common-law rcnmedy, where
the eonmnon law is competent to give it."
2: In 1845, by statute of the 26th February of that year,
"that the District Courts of the United States shall have,
possess, and exercise the same jurisdiction in matters of
contract and tort, arising in, upon, or concerning steamboats
and other vessels of twenty tons burden and upwards, enrolled and licensed for the coasting trade, and at the same
time employed in business of commerce and navigation,
between ports and places in different states and territories,
upon the lakes and navigable waters connecting said lakes, as is
now possessed and exercised by the said courts in cases of the
like steamboats and other vessels, employed in navigation
and commerce upon the high seas, or tide-waters within the
admiralty and maritime jurisdiction of the United States."
The question in the present case was, how far the jurisdiction of the District Courts of the United States, in cases
of admiralty arising on our navigable inland waters, is exclusive; and how far the State courts might exercise jurisdiction concurrently.

THE Ti[NE V. T.REVoR.

[Sup. Ot.

" Argument in favor of State jurisdiction.

Mr. Cook, in favor of the concurrent Statejurisdiction:
I. The Judiciary Act of 1789 invests the Federal District
Courts with exclusive cognizance of all civil causes of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, saving to suitors in all
cases the right of a common-law remedy, when the common
law is competent to give it. This act was amended in 1845,
and extended the admiralty jurisdiction of the Federal courts
to cases on the lakes and navigable waters connecting the
same, but expressly saving to parties the right of a concurrent remedy which may be given by State laws.
In England the jurisdiction of courts of admiralty was confined to the ebb and flow of the tide; and this court, in the
cases of The Thomas Jefferson,* and The Steamboat Orleans v.
Phoebus,t fbllowed the English decisions, confining the admiralty jurisdiction. But in 1851, in the case of The Genesee
Chief,j it overruled these two cases, and held that the jurisdiction of courts of admiralty extended to the lakes and navigable waters of the United States. But neither in this case
nor in any other case decided by this court, that we recall,
was it decided that the jurisdiction of the District Courts of
the United States in cases of admiralty is exclusive. The
judiciary acts of Congress to which we have referred expressly save to suitors, as we have remarked, common-law
remedies, and any concurrent remedies provided by State
laws.
In the absence, then, of any decision by this court we may
look at the action of the State courts. And in a mass of decisions, which may be referred to, we do not find one in
which the jurisdiction of the State courts was denied on the
ground assumed by plaintiff in this case; but, on the contrary, such jurisdiction of the State courts in this class of
cases is admitted all the way through.
In Iowa, from which State the present case comes, there
is the case of Miller v. Galland.ยง That case was an attachment against the steamboat Kentucky. A question ofjurisdiction, on another point, was raised, and it was held that
4

10 Wheaton, 428.
12 Howard, 448.

t11 Peters, 175.
4 Green, 191.

Dec. 1866.]

THE HINE

v. TREVOR.

Argument in favor of State jurisdiction.

the court had jurisdiction. N~umerous cases in Iowa, cited
below,* are to the same effect.
We refer to these cases, not because they explicitly and
directly decide anything on the question of jurisdiction, but
only to show that if the point made by taking this writ is.
well taken, the Supreme Court of Iowa has been deciding a
great many cases over which it had no jurisdiction.
Authorities, however, in other States support its view.
The case of Gerrnainv. The Indiana, is in Illinois.t There
the court speaks of the difference between the decrees in
State courts and in admiralty courts in this class of cases,
and clearly upholds the jurisdiction of State courts. Many
other cases have been decided in the same State, both before
and since the decision in the case last referred to, in which
the jurisdiction is recognized and impliedly admitted.
So in New York. The .ichrnond Turnpike Co. v. Vanderbilt,j in the Superior Court of New York City, was a collision
in tide-water. The jurisdiction was maintained. The earlier
case of Percival v. Hickey,ยง was to the same effect; and the
case is an important and well-considered one. The whole
question of jurisdiction of State and admiralty courts was
there considered, and the jurisdiction of the State courts
upheld.
If we may cite text-writers, we have the respectable authority of Mr. Angell,1j who, after referring to authorities,
says: "We have seen that the remedy in cases of collision
lies either in the courts of common law or in the admiralty
court."
SO in Missouri.
So in Ohio.**
The Kentucky v. Brooks, I Green, 398; Newcomb v. The Clermont,
3 Id. 295; Ham v. The Hamburg, 2 Iowa, 460; Steamboat Kentucky v.
Hine, 1 Green, 379; Haight & Brother v. The Henrietta, 4 Iowa, 472; The
War Eagle, 9 Iowa, 374, S. C. 14 Id. 363.
t 11 Illinois, 535.
1 Hill, 480; and see Barnes v. Cole, 21 Wendell, 188.
18 Johnson, 257.
Angell on the Law of Carriers, 651.
1 Steamboat United States v. Mtayor, &c., of St. Louis, 5 ilissouri, 230;
Steamboat Western Belle v. Vagner, 11 Id. 30.
Steamboat Clipper v. Logan, 18 Ohio, 375; Thompson v. The J. D.
Morton, 2 Ohio State, 26.

560

THE

mlNE

v. TREVOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in favor of State jurisdiction.

Above any authorities already cited is the case of Taylo'r
v. Carryl,* in this court. It was three times argued, and the
whole- question of jurisdiction of State and Federal courts
discussed and determined. A vessel had been seized under
process of attachment issued from a State court of Pennsylvania, identical with that which issues out of the District
Court of the United States sitting in admiralty. A libel was
filed in th6 District Court of the United States for mariners'
wages. It was held that where property is levied upon it is
not liable to be taken by an officer acting under another
jurisdiction. The admiralty jurisdiction of the Federal
court, although exclusive in some subjects, is concurrent
upon others. The courts of common law deal with ships or
vessels as with other personal property. In cases like the
one now before the court, courts of common law, we think,
have concurrent jurisdiction.
1I. Up to the time of The Genesee Chief,it was held by this
court that courts of admiralty had jurisdiction only within
the ebb and flow of the tide. Then, it follows that up to
that time, State courts must have had exclusive jurisdiction
over this class of cases, or there was no remedy in the law.
Now, if they once had jurisdiction, there must be some law,
or provision of the Constitution, which took it from them.
We find none. But we do find the decision in that case asserting that the courts of admiralty have jurisdiction above
such ebb and flow. But this does not oust State courts from
their jurisdiction.
II. The Federal courts are of limited jurisdiction. They
can only exercise the jurisdiction given by act of Congress.
Now when parties go into the Federal courts, they must
show by the pleadings certain facts to give the court jurisdiction; such as residence, citizenship of the different parties, or such other fact as may be prescribed by law, to
affirmatively show jurisdiction in the court.
Now apply the rule to the pleadings in this case. By the
act of 1845-under which alone the plaintiff in error can set
* 20 Howard, 583.

Dec. 1866.]

THE HINE v. TREVOR.
Opinion of the court.

up that the courts of the United States have jurisdictionthese courts have jurisdiction only in matters of contract
and tort in, upon, and concerning steamboats of twenty tons
burden, enrolled and licensed in the coasting trade, &c. In
this case there is no averment that the steamboat was of
twenty tons burden; no averment that she was enrolled and
licensed for the coasting trade; and no averment that she
was engaged in business of commerce and navigation upon
the lakes and navigable waters, &c.; no averments, therefore, which affirmatively show jurisdiction in the District
Court of the United States at all.

Mr. Grant, contra.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
The record distinctly raises the question, how far the jurisdiction of the District Courts of the United States in admiralty causes, arising on the navigable inland waters of this
country, is exclusive, and to what extent the State courts can
exercise a concurrent jurisdiction?
Nearly all the States-perhaps all whose territories are
penetrated or bounded by rivers capable of floating a steamboat-have statutes authorizing their courts, by proceedings
bi rem, to enforce contracts or redress torts, which, if they
had the same relation to the sea that they have to the waters
of those rivers, would be conceded to be the subjects of admiralty jurisdiction. ' These statutes have been acted upon
for many years, and are the sources of powers exercised
largely by the State courts at the present time. The question of their conflict with the constitutional lekislation of
Congress, on the same subject, is now for the first time presented to this court.
We are sensible of the extent of the interests to be affected
by our decision, and the importance of the principles upon
which that decision must rest, and have held the case under
advisement for some time, in order that every consideration
which could properly influence the result might be deliberately weighed.
VOL. IV.

662

THE HINE

v. TREVOR.

[Sup. Ct.

'Opinion of the court.

There can, however, be no doubt about the judgment
which we must render, unless we are prepared to overrule
the entire series of decisions of this court upon the subject
of admiralty jurisdiction on Western waters, commencing
with the case of The Genesee Chief, in 1851, and terminating
with that of The Moses Taylor, decided at the present term;*
for these decisions supply every element becessary to a sound
judgment in the case before us.
The history of the adjudications of this court on this subject, which it becomes necessary here to review, is a very
interesting one, and shows with what slowness and hesitation
the court arrived at the conviction of the full powers which
the Constitution and acts of Congress have vested in the
Federal judiciary. Yet as each position has been reached,
it has been followed by a ready acquiescence on the part
of the profession and of the public interested in the navigation of the interior waters of the country, which is strong
evidence that the decisions rested on sound principles, and
that the jurisdiction exercised was both beneficial and acceptable to the classes affected by it.
From the organization of the government until the era
of steamboat navigation, it is not strange that no question
of this kind came before this court. The commerce carried
on upon the inland waters prior to that time was so small,
that cases were not likely to arise requiring the aid of admiralty courts. But with the vast increase of inland navigation consequent upon the use of steamboats, and the development of wealth on the borders of the rivers, which thus
became the great water highways of an immense commerce,
the necessity for an admiralty court, and the value of admiralty principles in settling controversies growing out of this
system of transportation, began to be felt.
Accordingly we find in the case of The Steamboat Tnomas
,Iefferson, reported in 10 Wheaton, 428, that an attempt was
made to invoke the jurisdiction in the case of a steamboat
making a voyage from Shippingport, in Kentucky, to a point
* Supra, p. 411.

Dec. 1866.]

ThE HINE v. TREVOR.
Opinion of the court.

some distance up the Missouri River, and back again. This
court seems not to have been impressed with the importance
of the principle it was called upon to decide, as, indeed, no
one could then anticipate the immense interests to arise in
future, which by the rulings in that case were turned away
from the forum of the Federal courts. Apparently without
much consideration-certainly without anything like the
cogent argument and ample illustration which the subject
has since received here-the court declared that no act of
Congress had conferred admiralty jurisdiction in cases arising above the ebb and flow of the tide.
In the case of The Steamboat Orleans, in 11 Peters, 175, the
court again ruled that the District Court had no jurisdiction
in admiralty, because the vessel, which was the subject of
the libel, was engaged in interior navigation and trade, and
not on tide-waters. The opinion on this subject, as in the
case of The Thomas Jefferson, consisted of a mere announcement of the rule, without any argument 6r reference to authority to support it.
The case of Waring v. Clark, 8 Howard, 441, grew out of
a collision within the ebb and flow of the tide on the Mississippi River, but also infra corpus comitalus. The jurisdiction
was maintained on the 6ne side and denied on the other
with much confidence. . The court gave it a very extended
consideration, and three of the judges dissented from the
opinion of the court, which held that there was jurisdiction.
The question of jurisdiction above tide-water was not raised,
but the absence of such jurisdiction seems to be implied by
the arguments of the court as well as of the dissentino
judges.
The next case in order of time, The Genesee Chief, 12 Howard, 457, is by far the most important of the series, for it
overrules all the previous decisions limiting the admiralty
jurisdiction to tide-water, and asserts the broad doctrine
that the principles of that jurisdiction, as conferred on the
Federal courts by the Constitution, extend wherever ships
float and navigation successfully aids commerce, whether
internal or external.

564

THE

HixnE v. TREVOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

That case arose under an act of Congress, approved February 26th, 1845,* which provides that "the District Courts
of the United States shall have, possess, and exercise the
same jurisdiction in matters of contract and tort arising in,
upon, or concerning steamboats, or other vessels of twenty
tons burden and upwards, enrolled and licensed for the
coasting trade, and at the time employed in navigation between ports and places, in different states and territories,
upon the lakes and navigable waters connecting said lakes,
as is now.possessed and exercised by the said courts in cases
of like steamboats and other vessels employed in navigation
and commerce upon the high seas and tide-waters within
the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction of the United
States." The Genesee Chief was libelled under this act for
damages arising from a collision on Lake Ontario. A decree having been rendered against the vessel, the claimants
appealed to this court.
It was urged here that the act under which the proceeding was had was unconstitutional.
1st. Because the act was not a regulation of commerce,
and was not therefore within the commercial clause of the
Constitution.
2d. Because the constitutional grant of admiralty powers
did not extend to cases originating above tide-water, and
Congress could not extend it by legislation.
The court concurred in the first of these propositions, that
the act could not be supported as a regulation of commerce.
The Chief Justice, who delivered the opinion, then entered
into a masterly analysis of the argument by which it was
maintained that the admiralty power conferred by the Federal Constitution did not extend beyond tide-water in our
rivers and lakes.
This argument assumed that in determining the limits of
those powers, we were bound by the rule which governed
the Admiralty Court of Great Britain on the same subject
at the time our Constitution was adopted. And it was said
5 Statutes at Large, 726.

Dec. 1866.]

THE HINE v. TREVOR.
Opinion of the court.

that the limit of the court's power in that country was the
ebb and flow of the tide.
This was conceded to be true as a matter of fiPct, but the
Chief Justice demonstrated that the reason of this rule was
that the limit'of the tide in all the waters of England was at
the same time the limit of practicable navigation, and that
as there could be no use for an admiralty jurisdiction where
there could be no navigation, this test of the navigability of
those waters became substituted as the rule, instead of the
navigability itself. Such a rule he showed could have no
pertinency to the rivers and lakes of this country, for here
no such test existed. Many of our rivers could be navigated
as successfully and as profitably for a thousand miles above
tide-water as they could below; and he showed the absurdity
of adopting as the test of admiralty jurisdiction in this country an artificial rule, which was founded on a reason in England that did not exist here. The true rule in both countries
was the navigable capacity of the stream; and as this was
ascertained in England by a test which was wholly inapplicable here, we could not be governed by it. The cases of The
Thomas Jefferson and The Steamboat Orleans, already referred
to, were then examined and overruled.
This opinion received the assent of all the members of the
court except one.
Although the case arose under the act of 1845, already
cited, which in its terms is expressly limited to matters
arising upon the lakes and the navigable waters connecting
said lakes, and which the Chief Justice said was a limitation
of the powers conferred previously on the Federal courts, it
established principles under which the District Courts of the
United States began to exercise admiralty jurisdiction of
matters arising upon all the public navigable rivers of the
interior of the country.
This court also, at the same term in which the case of The
Genesee Chief was decided, held in Fretz v. Bull, in which
the point was raised in argument, that the Federal courts
had jurisdiction according to the principles of that case in the
matter of a collision on the Mississippi River above tide-water.

TE HINE v. TREVOR.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

As soon as these decisions became generally known admiralty cases increased rapidly in the District Courts of the
United Stafes, both on the lakes and rivers of the West.
Many members of the legal profession engaged In these
cases, and some of the courts have from this circumstance
assumed, without examination, that the jurisdiction in admiralty cases arising on the rivers of the interior of the
country is founded on the act of 1845; and such is perhaps
the more general impression in the West. The very learned
court whose judgment we are reviewing has fallen into this
mistake in the opinion which it delivered in the case before
us, and it is repeated here by counsel for the defendant in
error.
But the slightest examination of the language of that act
will show that this cannot be so, as it is confined, as we have
already said, to cases arising "on the lakes and navigable
waters connecting said lakes." The jurisdiction upon those
waters is governed by that statute, but its force extends no
further.
The jurisdiction thus conferred is in many respects peculiar, and its exercise is in some important particulars different under that act from the admiralty jurisdiction conferred
by the act of September 24th, 1789.
1. It is limited to vessels of twenty tons burden and upwards, enrolled and licensed for the coasting trade.
2. To vessels employed in commerce and navigation between ports and places in different States.
3. It grants a jury trial if either party shall demand it.
4. The jurisdiction is not exclusive, but is expressly made
concurrent, with such remedies as may be given by State
laws.
But the true reason why the admiralty powers of the
Federal courts began now to be exercised for the first time
in the inland waters was this: the decision in the case of
The Genesee Chief, having removed the imaginary line of
tide-water which had been supposed to circumscribe the
jurisdiction of the admiralty courts, there existed no longer
any reason why the general admiralty powers conferred on

Dec. 1866.]

THE

HINE v.

TREVOR.

Opinion of the court.

all the District Courts by the ninth section of the Judiciary
Act,* should not be exercised wherever there was navigation
which could give rise to admiralty and maritime causes.
The Congress which framed that act-the first assembled
under the Constitution-seemed to recognize this more extended view of the jurisdiction in admiralty, by placing unuder its control cases of seizure of vessels under the laws of
impost, navigation, and trade of the United States, when
those seizures were made in waters navigable from the sea
by vessels of ten tqns burden or upwards.
The case of The Magnolia, 20 Hloward, 296, is another important case in the line of decisions which we have been
considering. It was a case of collision occurring on the
Alabama River, far above the ebb and flow of the tide, on a
stream whose course was wholly witbin the limits of the
State which bears its name. This was thought to present
an occasion when the doctrines announced in the case of The
Genesee Chief might properly be reconsidered, and modified,
if not overruled. Accordingly, we find that the argument in
favor of the main proposition decided in that case was restated with much force in the opinion of the court, and that
a very elaborate opinion was delivered on behalf of three
dissenting judges. The principles established by the case of
The Genesee Cidef were thus reaffirmed, after a careful and
full reconsideration. It was also further decided (which is
pertinent to the case before us), that the jurisdiction in admiralty on the great Western rivers did not depend upon the
act of February 3d, 1845, but that it was founded on the act
of September 24th, 1789. That decision was made ten years
ago, and the jurisdiction, thus firmly established, has been
largely administered by all the District Courts of the United
States ever since, without question.
At the same time, the State courts have been in the habit
of adjudicating causes, which, in the nature of their subjectmatter, are identical in every sense with causes which are
acknowledged to be of admiralty and maritime cognizance;
1 Statutes at Large, 77.

568

TE HINE V. THEVoR.

[Sup.

at.

Opinion of the court.

and they have in these causes administered remedies which
differ in no essential respect from the remedies which have
heretofore been considered as peculiar to admiralty courts.
This authority has been exercised under State statutes, and
not under any claim of a general common-law power in these
courts to such a jurisdiction.
It is a little singular that, at this term of the court, we
should, for the first time, have the question of the right of
the State courts to exercise this jurisdiction, raised by two
writs of error to State courts, remote from each other, the
one relating to a contract to be performed on the Pacific
Ocean, and the other to a collision on the Mississippi River.
The first of these cases, The lifoses Taylor, had been decided
before the present case was submitted to our consideration.
The main point ruled in that case is, that the jurisdiction
conferred by the act of 1789, on the District Courts, in civil
causes of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, is exclusive
by its express terms, and that this exclusion extends to the
State courts. The language of the ninth section of the act
admits of no other interpretation. It says, after describing
the criminal jurisdiction conferred on the District Courts,
that they "shall also have exclusive original cognizance of all
civil causes of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, including
all seizures under laws of impost, navigation, or trade of
the United States, when the seizures are made on waters
which are navigable from the sea by vessels of ten or more
tons burden." If the Congress of the United States has
the right, in providing for the exercise of the admiralty
powers, to which the Constitution declares the authority of
the Federal judiciary shall extend, to make that jurisdiction
exclusive, then, undoubtedly, it has done so by this act.
This branch of the subject has been so fully discussed in the
opinion of the court, in the case just referred to, that it is
unnecessary to consider it further in this place.
It must be taken, therefore, as the settled law of this
court, that wherever the District Courts of the United States
have original cognizance of admiralty causes, by virtue of
the act of 1789, that cognizance is exclusive, and no other

Dee. 1866.]

THE
.
TINE v. TREvOR.
Opinion of the court.

court, state or national, can exercise it, with the exception
always of such concurrent remedy as is given by the common law.
This examination of the case, already decided by this
court, establishes clearly the following propositions:
1. The admiralty jurisdiction, to which the power of the
Federal judiciary is by the Constitution declared to extend,
is not limited to tide-water, but covers the entire navigable
waters of the United States.
2. The original jurisdiction in admiralty exercised by the
District Courts, by virtue of the act of 1789, is exclusive,
not only of other Federal courts, but of the State courts also.
3. The jurisdiction of admiralty causes arising on the interior waters of the United States, other than the lakes and
their connecting waters, is conferred by the act of September
24th, 1789.
4. The admiralty jurisdiction exercised by the same courts,
on the lakes and the waters connecting those lakes, is governed by the act of February 3d, 1845.
If the facts of the case before us in this record constitute
a cause of admiralty cognizance, then the remedy, by a direct proceeding against the vessel, belonged to the Federal
courts alone, and was excluded from the State tribunals.
It was a case of collision between two steamboats. The
case of The .1.agnolia,* to which we have before referred,
was a case of this character; and many others have been
decided in this court since that time. That -they were admiralty causes has never been doubted.
We thus see that every principle which is necessary to a
decision of this case has been already established by this
court in previous cases. They lead unavoidably to the conclusion, that the State courts of Iowa acted without jurisdiction; that the law of that State attempting to confer this
jurisdiction is void, because it is in conflict with the act of
Congress of September 24th, 1789, and that this act is well
authoriz-1d by the Qonstitution of the United States. Unless
* 20 Howard, 296.

THE [INE V. TiE VOR.

[Sup. ot.

Opinion of the court.

we are prepared to retract the principles established by the
entire series of decisions of this court on that subject, from
and including the case of The Genesee Cidef, down to that
of The .oses Taylor, decided at. this term, we cannot escape
this conclusion. The succeeding cases are in reality but the
necessary complement and result of the principles decided
in the case of Tle Genesee Chief. The propositions laid
down there, and which were indispensable to sustain the
judgment in that case, bring us logically to the judgment
which we must render in this case. With the doctrines of
that case on the subject of the extent of the admiralty jurisdiction we are satisfied, and should be disposed to affirm
them now if they were open to controversy.
It may be well here to advert to one or two considerations
to which our attention has been called, but which did not
admit of notice in the course of observation which we have
been pursuing without breaking the sequence of the argument.
1. It is said there is nothing in the record to show that
the Hine was of ten tons burden or upwards, and that, therefore, the case is not brought within the jurisdiction of the
Federal courts. The observation is made, in the opinion
of the Supreme Court of Iowa, in reference to the provision
of the act of 1845, which that court supposed to confer
jurisdiction on the Federal courts in the present case, if it
had such jurisdiction at all. We have already shown that
the jurisdiction is founded on the act of 1789. That act
also speaks of vessels of ten tons burden and upwards, but
not in the same connection that the act of 1845 does. In
the latter act it is made essential to the jurisdiction that the
vessel which is the subject of the contract, or the tort, should
be enrolled and licensed for the coasting trade, and should
be of twenty tons burden, or upwards. In the act of 1789,
it is declared that the District Courts shall have jurisdiction
in admiralty of seizures for violations of certain laws, where
such seizures are made on rivers navigable by vessels of ten
tons burden or upwards from the sea. In the latter case, the
phrase is used as describing the carrying capacity of the

Dec. 1866.]

THE HINE V. TREVOR.
Opinion of the court.

river where the seizure is made. In the former case, it relates to the capacity of the vessel itself.
2. It is said that the statute of Iowa may be fairly construed as coming within the clause of the ninth section of
the act of 1789, which "saves to suitors, in all cases, the
right of a common-law remedy where the common law is
competent to give it."
But the remedy pursued in the Iowa courts, in the case
before us, is in no sense a common-law remedy. It is a
remedy partaking of all the essential features of an admiralty
proceeding in ren. The statute provides that th6 vessel may
be sued and made defendant without any proceeding against
the owners, or even mentioning their names. That a writ
may be issued and the vessel seized, on filing a petition similar in substance to a libel. That after a notice in the nature
of a monition, the vessel may be condemned and an order
made for her sale, if the liability is established for which she
was sued. Such is the general character of the steamboat
laws of the Western States.
While the proceeding differs thus from a common-law
remedy, it is also essentially different from what are in the
West called suits by attachment, and in some of the older
States foreign attachments. In these cases there is a suit
against a personal defendant by name, and because of inability to serve process on him on account of non-residence,
or for some other reason mentioned in the various statutes
allowing attachments to issue, the suit is commenced by a
writ directing the proper officer to attach sufficient property
of the defendant to answer any judgment which may be
rendered against him. This proceeding may be had against
an owner or part owner of a vessel, and his interest thus
subjected to sale in a common-law court of the State.
Such actions may, also, be maintained in personam against
a defendant in the common-law courts, as the common law
gives; all in consistence with the grant of admiralty powers
in the ninth section of the Judiciary Act.
But it could not have been the intention of Congress, by
the exception in that section, to give the suitor all such

NEWELL V. NITxoN.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

remedies as might afterwards be enacted by State statutes,
for this would have enabled the States to make the jurisdiction of their courts concurrent in all cases, by simply providing a statutory remedy for all cases. Thus the exclusive
jurisdiction of the Federal courts would be defeated. In
the act of 1845, where Congress does mean this, the language expresses it clearly; for after saving to the parties,
in cases arising under that act, a right of trial by jury, and
the right to a concurrent remedy at common law, where it
is competent to give it, there is added, "any concurrent
remedy which may be given by the State laws where such
steamer or other vessel is employed."
THE JUDGMENT IS REVERSED, and the case is remanded to
the Supreme Court of Iowa, with directions that it be
DISmISSED FOR WANT OF JURISDICTION.

TEWELL V. NIXON.
1. Although no partnership may exist between them, yet where two persons
are joint owners of a vessel against which a claim exists for non-delivery of cargo, and one gives a note in the joint name for a balance agreed
on as due for such non-delivery-the other party being aware of the
making of the note, and of the consideration for which it was given,
and making no dissent from the act of his co-owner-such note cannot
be repudiated by such other party, he having bought out the share of
his co-owner in the vessel and agreed to pay her debts and liabilities.
2. Where a suit is brought against a shipowner for a sum acknowledged by
the owners to be due the shipper, for a breach of contract in delivering
merchandise, the production-of the bill of lading is not essential.
3. The plea of prescription of one year, under the Civil Code of Louisiana,
cannot be set up in a case where the suit is brought in April on an acknowledgment made in September previous of a sum due on settlement.
4. A party suing, not on a note but on the consideration for which the note
was given-and using the note as evidence rather than as the foundation
of the claim-may have lawful interest on the sum due him, although
by note given on a settlement the party sued may have promised to pay
unlawful interest and such as the law of the State where the note was
given visits with a forfeiture of all interest whatever.

