224

EVANS

v.

PATTERSON.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

these depositions in evidence, the defendants objected, and
when the objection was overruled they carried the case by
appeal to the Circuit Court.
The Circuit Court excluded the depositions, and if the
action of that court was correct in this respect, there can be
no doubt that its decree dismissing the libel was the necessary result of the case as it stood on the remaining testimony.
The depositions relied on by appellant were properly ruled
out, for the reason that they were taken without notice to
defendants, in another suit to which defendants were not
parties, and in which they had no right or opportunity to
cross-examine the witnesses. Ior were defendants in any
manner privies to either party in the former suit, in which
the depositions had been taken. This alone, it is well settled, is a sufficient reason for their exclusion.
But when, to this consideration, it is added, that no reason
is shown why the witnesses were not introduced in person,
it is quite clear that the Circuit Court was right in rejecting
the depositions.
The decree of the Circuit Court dismissing the libel is,
therefore,
AFFIRIIED.

EVANS V. PATTERSON.
1. The court reproves the practice of making bills of exception a sort of abstract or index to the history of the case, and so of obscuring its merits.
2. Where a party claiming land as owner, under the laws of Pennsylvania,
brings ejectment in the name of the original warrantee, and recovers,
against a father; and subsequently producing a deed-poll from the warrantee, made previously to the date of the ejectment and deraigning title
to himself, brings another ejeetment in his own name against a son, who
on his father's death kept possession of the same land: such two suits
are an estoppel and within the act of Assembly of Pennsylvania, of the
18th of April. 1807, which declares that "where two verdicts shall, in
any suit of ejcetment between the same parties, be given in succession,
for the plaintiff or defendant, and judgment be rendered thereon, nc
new ejeetment shall be brought."

Dec. 1866.]

EVANS V. PATTERSOX.
Statement of the case.

3. But where a plaintiff deraigns title regularly from the warrantee, and the
defendant shows no title, the question of estoppel is of no importance.

ERoR

to the Circuit Court for the Western District of

Pennsylvania; the case being thus:
The State of Pennsylvania in 1792 granted a warrant to
survey a certain tract of land to William Barker. Barker,
the warrantee, conveyed his interests to Daniel Broadhead.
Broadhead died, and James Patterson bought his title from
his heirs. But he had not, or at least could not find or prove
the existence of any "deed-poll" from Barker, conveying
the warrant to Broadhead. However, using the name of
Barker, the warrantee, he brought ejectment in 1831 against
a certain Eli Evans and some other persons who were in
possession of the land. Evans and these others set up in
defence that Barker did not appear, and that his existence
was uncertain, and that Patterson, asserting himself as he
did, to be owner of the land, could not bring suit in Barker's
name. But the court decided that under the peculiar system
of land law of Pennsylvania, he could; and he had verdict
and judgment accordingly. On error to the Supreme Court
of the State (Ross v. Baker, 5 Watts, 391), that tribunal affirmed the judgment; holding to the doctrine previously
declared in Campbell v. Galbraiih,* that in Pennsylvania a
beneficial owner was entitled to use the name of a warrantee,
though such warrantee was ignorant both of the action and
the trust.
For some reason, however, Patterson did not get possession
.of the land. Eli Evans, against whom the ejectment had
been brought, died, leaving a son, Elihu Evans, upon the
land. Patterson, who had in the meantime found a deedpoll from Barker, the warrantee, to Broadhead, brought,
A. D. 1855, a suit against this Elihu Evans; deraigning the
title regularly from the warrantee to himself, and obtaining
verdict and judgment. But still he did not get into actual
or permanent possession. Elihu Evans yet maintained occupation.
* 1 Watts, 78.
'VOL. IV.

15

EVANS v. PATTERSON.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

Patterson, who was a citizen of Ohio, now brought a third
ejectment-the suit below-in his own name against the said
Elihu. This was in the Circuit Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania. He put in evidence the records of
the two judgments just mentioned, proved his actual ownership at the time when the first suit (that in the name of William Barker), was brought, showed the identity of the land,
now demanded with that recovered in the former suits, and
that Elihu Evans was a son of Eli Evans, and in possession.
IHe here rested; asserting that he had shown two recoveries
for the same land; and claiming the benefit of them under
a statute of Pennsylvania, passed 13th April, 1807, which
enacts that "where two verdicts shall in any suit in ejectment
between the same parties be given*in succession for the plaintiff or defendant, and judgment be rendered thereon, no new
ejeetment shall be brought."
The defendant contended that the first ejeetment having
been instituted in the name of William Barker, the warrantee, after he had conveyed all his right and title to the
land in controversy to Daniel Broadhead, as appeared from
the evidence, there was no privity, and therefore the first
verdict and judgment should not be counted against him,
and prayed the court so to instruct the jury, which the court
after argument of counsel declined to do, and charged the
jury that if the evidence in the case was believed by them,
the plaintiff had two verdicts and judgments for the land in
controversy, which were conclusive in favor of his title, and
he was entitled to recover.
The case was now here on error; the record showing, a
long and confused bill of exceptions, with recitals of all the
deeds, and minute descriptions of the land and of the tracts
bounding it.
M11r. Wilson, for the plaintiff in error:
This record raises two points for consideration:
1st. Whether the estoppel, under the Ejeetment Act of
Pennsylvania, arising from two verdicts and judgments between the same parties, or their privies, upon the same title,

Dec. 1866.]

EVANs V. PATTERSON.
Argument for the plaintiff in error.

applies to Elihu Evans, the defendant in the second ejectment, who was not a party to the first ejectment, and who
was not proved to be privy to the same.
2d. Whether there was, at the time of the first ejectment,
in the name of William Barker, in 1831, any privity between
James Patterson, plaintiff in the second ejeetment, and William Barker, the former plaintiff, since, in the second ejectment, it appeared that William Barker, the warrantee of the
land, had, by deed-poll, in 1792, conveyed all his interest in
the warrant to Daniel Broadhead, under whom Patterson,
plaintiff, claimed title in the second ejectment.
It is not intended, under this second head, to controvert
the settled doctrine in Pennsu'lvania, that so long as the
relation of trustee and cestui que trust subsists between the
warrantee and the real owner of the warrant, an ejectment
may be maintained in the name of the warrantee, as nominal
plaintiff, for the benefit of a real owner of the warrant; but
the distinction is taken here, that any fiduciary relation between Barker, warrantee, and Broadhead, alleged owner of
the warrant, had ceased as early as 1792, when the former
conveyed his title to the latter, and, consequently, no privity
between Patterson, claiming under Broadhead, could have
existed in 1831.
It will not be denied that the decisions in the Pennsylvania courts, on the statute, have held,
1st. That the ejectment must have been for the same land.
2d. That in the trial the same title should have been
passed upon.
3d. That the parties should be the same, or should stand
in privity with those who were.
"It is certainly not enough that the former ejectment was
upon the same land, on the same title, and under same deed,
under which parties at present claim; it is necessary, besides,
thai the parties be the same, or stand in privity with those who
were."
1ow, the first ejectment, or NTo. 1, and judgment on ver* Timbers v. Katz, 6 Watts & Sergeant, 290; Treaster v. Fleisher, 7 Id. 137.

Ev~ANs V.

PATTERSON.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

diet, is not identical in name as to either plaintiff or defendant with the second ejectment, or No. 2; for in one, William
Barker is plaintiff; and in the other, James Patterson.
The only identity or assumed privity, tl~en, of James Patterson and William Barker is, that in both cases the warrant
of William Barker, dated 3d April, 1792, was adduced in
evidence, on the part of the plaintiff below, by which, in one
case, No. 1, and through which, in the other, No. 2, recovery
was asserted and had; in the former, in name of William
Barker, the warrantee, as implying a legal title; in the latter,
of Patterson, plaintiff, deducing title from Barker by regular
mesne conv eyance. The first suit, Barker v. Ross, as it went
to the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, was decided upon
the presumption of the existence of -William Barker, the warrantee and alleged trustee, without the evidence being given,
as it was below in the present suit, that Barker had conveyed all his title and claim to Broadhead in 1792.
This brings us to the consideration of the second point.
The general doctrine in Pennsylvania is peculiar to her
system of land adjudications, that ejectment at law may be
instituted on either equitable or legal titles. That warrants
and surveys are to be deemed as against all but the Commonwealth, in the same light as legal estates in the English common law, and the same consequences follow from any conveyance, devise, or assignment made by the warrantee or
ograntee.*
It follows, then, that a conveyance by deed-poll of a warrantee carries with it all legal or equitable rights-they pass
to the grantee or assignee-his relation of legal owner, or
trustee of any beneficial owner, cease. -Until transfer under
the warrant, he attaches to himself a constructive legal seizin
of the land, with the same advantages as if in the actual
possession at common law, to be defeated by disseizin in fact,
or by some adverse claim or right.t Afterwards, his grantee
or alienee is clothed with the attributes of an owner, and
* Caines v. Grant, 5 Binney, 120; Maclay v. Work, Id. 158.

t Strimpfler v. Roberts, 18 Pennsylvania State, 300.

Dec. 18636.]

EVANS V. PATTERSON.
Opinion of the court.

takes the title, subject only to the consequences of his predecessor's acts during his seizin.* The assignee or alienee
can then only maintain suit in his own name.
Applying these principles, the distinctions obviously arising in the case now here on error, and that of Barkerv. Ross
as it went to the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, are appreciable. Chief Justice Gibson, delivering the opinion, says:
"The point raised (the non-existence of William Barker) is
disposed of by the decision in Campbell v. Galbraith, 1 Watts, 78,
that the beneficial owner may maintain ejectment in the name
of a nominal warrantee, ignorant both of the action and the
trust, no more being required than to disclose the ilame of the
actualparty."
In the trial below, in that case, no mesne conveyances
whatever were shown from Barker to Broadhead, or to Patterson; no transfer or sale came in evidence. The simple
warrant and survey were introduced, Patterson claiming,
outside the record, as beneficial owner, without title, legal
or equitable. The evidence now discloses the fact, that at
the impetration of the writ in the first suit, A.D. 1831,
Barker, as a personal owner in fact, and not as a nominal and
ficitious trustee, had already by deed-poll, the 12th-April,
1792, conveyed the land to Broadhead in fee.
On these facts, thus disclosed, the authority of Campbell
v. Galbraith, cited by Gibson, C. J., is not applicable.
Mir. Patterson, contra, submitted the case.
Mfr. Justice GRGE R delivered the opinion of the court.
The bill of exceptions (so called) in this case, is a sort of
abstract or index to the history of a case tried in the Western
District of Pennsylvania. Protesting against attempts at
mystifying the merits of a case by such records, we shall
proceed to notice the single error which it is supposed that
the court has committed in the charge to the jury.
" Blackmore v. Gregg, 10 Watts, 225.

EVANS V. PATTERSON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The case cannot be made intelligible without a brief notice
of the very peculiar land law of Pennsylvania. The proprietors of the province, in the beginning, allowed no one man
to locate and surveymore than three hundred acres. To evade
this rule in after times, it was the custom for speculators in
land to make application in the names of third persons, and
having obtained a warrant to take from them what was
called a "deed-poll," or brief conveyance of their inchoate
equitable claim.
Pennsylvania, until of late years, had no courts of equity.
Hence, in an action of ejectment, the plaintiff might recover
without showing a legal title. If he had a prior inchoate or
equitable title, either as trustee or cestui que trust, he might
recover. The courts treated the applicant, or warrantee, as
trustee for the party who paid the purchase-money, or paid
even the surveying fees; for the purchase-money, under the
location or application system, was not paid at the time, and
sometimes never. When the State succeeded to the title of
the proprietors, the application system was abandoned, and
warrants were granted on payment of the purchase-money
for the number of acres for which his warrant called. Ience,
where the claimant of the warrant was unable to show his
deed-p0511, he might recover by showing that he paid the purchase-money; that the warrantee, whose name was used,
was therefore trustee for him. And an ejectment might
also be maintained in the name of the warrantee, although
he had no beneficial interest in the land, and had no knowledge of the institution of the suit. See Campbell v. Galbraith,* and also Ross v. Barker,t which was decided on the
title now in question.
To come to the history of the present case. Daniel Broadhead was the owner of the warrant in the name of William
Barker. He had died intestate. The defendant in error
had bought up the titles of the different heirs, and found Eli
Evans, the father of the plaintiff in error, and others in possession, claiming title as settlers. But as the deed-poll from
* 1 Watts, 78.

"t 5 Id. 391.

Dec. 1866.]

EVAINIS V. PATTERSON.
Opinion of the court.

Barker to Broadhead could not be found, the defendant in
error brought his first ejectment in the name of the warrantee,
and recovered. The objection was made that Patterson,
the defendant in error, could not maintain his suit in such
form. But the Supreme Court, in the cases above cited,
determined that he could.
Afterwards, finding the same parties or their privies in
possession (A. D. 1855), he brought another ejectment in
his own name, and having found the lost deed-poll to Broadhead, he was able to deraign his title regularly from the
original warrantee, and had another verdict and judgment in
his favor.
In the case now before us, Elihu Evans, the plaintiff in
error, had succeeded to the claim of his father, Eli Evans.
On the trial, the defendant in error had again deraigned his
title from Barker, the warrantee, and gave in evidence also
his two former recoveries. As he had already shown a title
regularly deraigned from the original warrantee, and the
defendant Evans had shown no title at all, the two former
verdicts were unnecessary, but were conclusive, according
to the laws of Pennsylvania, between the same parties and
their privies.
The only objection made by Evans was, to the conclusiveness of the two verdicts, because the first suit was in the
name of Barker, and, as now appeared by the deed to Broadhead, that Barker had no title. -hen th6 recovery was had
in his name, it was argued that such "verdict and judgment
should not be counted." The record showed that at the
time the first ejectment was brought, Pattersoh had bought
up the title from Broadhead's heirs; that the suit was carried on by him in the name of the warrantee for his own
use. N o objection was made to the admission of the first
verdict and judgment, because the parties defendant were
not the same, or for want of privity between the defendant
and the parties defendant in the former action. But it was
contended that the first verdict and judgment "should not
be counted against him" for want of privity between the
plaintiffs. There was satisfactory evidence that Patterson

HUGHES V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. C.

Syllabus.

was the real party in interest, and conducted both suits, and
had recovered, in the first suit, in the name of a trustee, and
in the second, in his own name, as "cestui que trust" of the
equitable estate-as where one suit was in a real or fictitious
lease from John Doe, and the other in the name of Richard
Roe. The jury were instructed that if they believed the
evidence that Patterson was the real party in both suits, the
two verdicts and judgments were conclusive.
But the plaintiff below having deraigned title from the
warrantee, and the plaintiff in error having shown no title,
the question as to the estoppel was of no importance, as the
court were bound to instruct the jury, that without its aid
their verdict should be the same.
The plaintiff in error, having failed to show any error in
the record, the
JUDGMENT IS ArFIRMED.

HUGHES V. 'UNITED STATES
1. The equity of a preumption claimant of land under the laws of the United
States who has complied with the conditions imposed by those laws, obtained his certificate by the payment of the purchase-money, and retained
uninterrupted possession of the property, cannot be defeated by one

whose entry was subsequent, although he has fortified his title with a
patent; such person having notice sufficient to put him on inquiry as to
the interests, legal or equitable, of the predmption claimant.
2. A decree dismissing a bill for matters not involving merits is no bar to a
subsequent suit.
3. A court of equity will set aside a patent of the United States obtained by
mistake or inadvertence of the officers of the land office, on a bill filed
for that purpose by the government when the patent orimO fade passes
the title.
4. Open, notorious, and exclusive possession of real property by parties claiming it is sufficient to put other persons upon inquiry as to the interests,
legal or equitable, held by such parties; and if such other persons neglect
to make the inquiry, they are not entitled to any greater consideration
than if they had made it and had ascertained the actual facts of the case.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Eastern District of Louisiana.

