CHRISTY V. PRIDGEON.

[Sup. Ct

Syllabus.

of circumstances must be shown that notice would be implied. And it is true that this charge makes no reference to
notice whatever. But when we look into the facts of this
case, as shown by the bill of exceptions, we discover a very
plain reason why this was omitted. The question of notice,
as a fact, could not be disputed, and therefore did not arise
as a matter on which the jury required instructions.
The city authorities, in converting the part of the Park
already mentioned into a street, had cut down a tree, and
left the stump standing from six to eight inches above the
surface, and from fourteen to eighteerf inches inside the

curbstone, on the sidewalk. This was done in 1847; and
this stump, thus left by the city authorities, who had cut
down the tree, remained in thht condition until the time of
the accident to plaintiff, in 1857.
These facts were uncontradicted, and stronger proof of
notice could not be given. It closed the question, and the
omission in the judge's charge of -ny reference to that subject was justified by the testimony. It would have been
euperifuous.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

CHRISTY V. PRIDGEON.

1. The Mexican colonization law of August 18th, 1824, though general to
the fRepublic of Mexico, was, so far as it affected lands within the limits
of Texas, after the independence of that country, a local law of the new
State, as much so as if it had originated in her legislation. The interpretation, therefore, placed on it by the highest court of the State, must
be accepted as the true interpretation, so far as it applies to titles to
lands in that State, whatever may be the opinion of this court of its
original soundness. If in courts of other States carved dut of territory
since acquired from Mexico, a different interpretation has been adopted,
the courts of the United States will follow the different ruling, so far as
it affects titles in those States.
2. The interpretation within the jurisdiction of a State of a local law, becomes a part of that law, as much so as if incorporated in the body of

Dec. 1866.]

CHRISTY V. PRIDGEON.
Statement of the case.

it by the legislature. If different interpretations are given in different
States to a similar law, that law, in effect, becomes, by the interpretations, so far as it is a rule for action by this court, a different law in
one State from what it is in the other.

Euion to the District Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Texas; the case being essentially thus:
By the Mexican colonization law of August 18th, 1824, and
the legislation of Coahuila and Texas authorized by it, the
Governor of the State just mentioned had power to grant
lands for eolonization; but it was declared that the territory comprised within' twenty leagues of the boundaries o4
a foreign nation, or within ten leagues of the sea-coast, could
not be colonized without the previous approval of the supreme executive power.
In this state of the law, one Miguel Arceniga, a resident
of Bexar, made his petition for concession of eleven leagues
of land. The petition was dated March 31st, 1831, and the
concession of the Governor, granting the quantity asked for,
was made on the 6th of April of the same year, accompanied
with a direction to the proper local officers to give possession
of the land to the grantee, and to issue to him the proper
title. Ncither document designated the land. A petition
to the alcalde, for survey, possession, and title, of the eleven
leagues, in the vicinity of the "Red River of the Tachitoches," was followed by the appropriate action of the officer
for that purpose, and on the 22d of September, 1835, by the
issue to the grantee of a formal certificate of possession and
title of the land thus situated. This was before the annexation of Texas to the United States, and the land thus
granted laid within twenty leagues of what was then the
northern boundary between Texas and the United States.
Texas having become part of the Union, one Chrifty, claiming under the grantee, brought trespass' to try title for these
eleven leagues, now situated in Harrison County, Texas.
The court ruled that the grant being issued without the
previous assent or approval of the supreme executive power
of Mexico, was illegal and void, and excluded it from the
jury. Thereupon, the jury found for the defendant. The

[Sup. Ct

CHRISTY V. PRIDGEON.
Argument for the defendant in error.

alleged error in this ruling was the only question before this
court.
Mr. T. Ewing, Jr.,for the plaintiff in error:
The title, on its face, being valid and complete-its genuineness unquestioned-it comes within the principle declared
by this court in Fene3 v. United States,* that "the public
acts of public officers, importing to be exercised by public
authority, shall not be presumed to be usurped, but that a
legitimate authority had been previously given, or subsequently ratified ;" and in Delassus v. Uniled States,t that the
concession, being regular in form and made by the proper
officer, is primd facie evidence that it was within the power
of the officer to make it, and that he who alleges that an
officer intrusted with an important duty has-violated it, must
show it.
The chief object of the colonization law, as is known, was
to encourage the immigration of foreigners, and their establishment in colonies with liberal bounties of lands. It
was decided in Arguello v. United States,T and affirmed in Cruz
Cervantes v. The Same,ยง that this law did not restrict the distribution by the States to Mexican citizens of public lands
within the littoral and the frontier leagues. As there is no
other provision of the constitution or laws of M\1exico requiring the assent of the national executive to the disposition of vacant lands in Coahuila and Texas, it was therefore settled by those cases that the State had the power,
without the assent of the supreme executive, to make the
grant in question.
Mr. Adams and K3r. Leech, contra:
The invalidity and nullity of the Mexican grants within
the ten coast, and twenty border, leagues of Texas, unless
the assent of the supreme executive of Mexico was affirmatively shown to such grants, have been repeatedly and
*

22 Howard, 459.

j 18 Howard, 546.

t 9 Peters, 117, 133.
Id. 555.

Dec. 1866.]

CHRISTY V. PRIDGEO.
Argument for the defendant in error.

firmly settled by the Supreme Court of Texas, in a series
of cases.*
These decisions have, for years, been acquiesced in by the
bar and the people, and constitute a rule of property for a
very large portion of the State.
The plaintiff in this action undertook a course of litigation
to overthrow these decisions; but they have been reiterated
and affirmed both in the Supreme Court of Texas,t and in
this court, in League v. Bgery,j and Foote v. Egery,ยง until it
is not possible to conceive a more fixed and settled course
of decisions and rule of property than the nullity of grants
of this cbaracter.
Reply: 1. All the matters necessary to a consideration of
the question do not seem to have been presented to this
court in League v. Egery, and Foote v. Egery, acquiescing in
the Texas decisions, and were not considered in its opinion
when pronounced.
The first of the Texas decisions was at the December
Term, 1848-one year before plaintiff brought this suit. He
was the purchaser of the land from the State of Coahuila
and Texas, in 1835, and had received complete legal title.
Neither Miexico, nor the State of Coahuila and Texas, nor
the Republic, nor the State of Texas, ever questioned his
title by proceeding for forfeiture, or by a conveyance to a
third person, or otherwise. The custom of the states and
territories of Mexico, while the national colonization law of
1824 was in force, to &ell to Mexicans lands in the border
leagues, without the assent of the national executive, which
is referred to in the Arguello case, and shown in the Texas
and California Reports, and in the colonization law of Tamaulipasil-undisputed as it was by Mexico-shows that the
law was never interpreted by.the national, state, or territorial
* Edwards v. Davis, 3 Texas, 321; Republic v. Thorn, Id. 499; 5 Id 410;
9 Id. 556; 10 Id. 316.
t Smith v. Power, 14 Texas, 4&; Same v. Same, 23 Id. 29.
Id. 267.
24 Howard, 264.
P aschal's Annotated Digest, 769, p. 218.

CHRISTY V. PRIDGEON.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the defendant in error.

authorities to impose the condition of national assent on such
sales to Mexican citizens. This court, in the Arguello and
Cervantes cases, in opinions from which there was no dissent,
declared that this interpretation of the law by the national,
state, and territorial authorities was right. It may, therefore, be hssumed that such is the true interpretation of this
law.
Hence, from 1835 to 1849, when this erroneous interpretation was first declared by any judicial tribunal, the plaintiff had a valid legal title by executed contract of purchase.
This court, in the Egery cases, takes the decisions of the
Texas courts as a rule of property in that State. The court say,
"We do not inquire whether a more suitable rule might not
have been adopted, nor whether the arguments which led to
its adoption were forcible or just. We receive the decisions
as having a binding force almost equivalent to positive law."
But we submit, that unless those Texas decisions have a binding force, more than equivalent to positive law, they cannot
control this case. When the first of these erroneous decisions was made, Texas was a State of this Union, bound
by the Constitution, and could not, even by a law, 'impair
the validity of this contract, much less by a decision of its
courts, or a series of decisions, which are only "almost equivalent to pbsitive law." If, then, the plaintiff had a valid
title before the earliest of these decisions, he has it still unimpaired by them. Decisions settling a rule of property
cannot give or take away property, except in the very cases
involved in them. They !nay, and of right ought to have,
a persuasive influence on other courts deciding cases which
originated in the past, but cannot control them any more
than a statute law can control titles acquired in the past.
2. If the constitutional objection were removed, it seems
to us not sound policy to give.this effect to the Texas decisions. In 1855, nearly contemporaneous with the earliest

of these decisions, this court, in the Arguello case, settled
the construction of this part .of the Mexican colonization
law. That decision, affirmed in the Cervantes case, has stood
for eleven years as an exposition of the settled law of such

Dec.1866.]

CHRISTY V. PRIDGEON.
Opinion of the court.

titles in all those states and territories.which were acquired
fiom fexico.
It is, doubtless, still the received construction in those
states and territories. Now, because the Texas courts refused to adopt that construction, and pertinaciously adhered
to their own, will this court, by adopting the constructi 6 n
of the Texas courts, reverse its decision in the Arguello case,
and destroy the titles resting on it? If the interpretation in
the Arguello case is to be adhered to in deciding on titles in
the states and territories acquired from Mexico, it cannot be
abandoned in titles in Texas; for if a grant within the border
leagues in California be not impaired by want of assent of
the lexican government, a like grant in Texas cannot be,
without conceding to the Texas courts the power of establishing, by a train of decisions, a rule of property which
destroys the obligation of contracts.
Mr. Justice FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
This was an action to try the title to a tract of land situated in the County of Harrison, in the State of Texas.
The plaintiff relied for recovery upon title derived under
a grant from the Governor of Coahuila and Texas, made
whilst Texas was a province of Mlexico. The defendant
rested his defence upon the invalidity of the grant in question, and this invalidity was asserted upon the admitted fact
that the land it embraces was situated, at the time the grant
was made, within the twenty frontier leagues bordering on
the United States, and the absence of any evidence tending
to show the assent to the grant, or its approval by the national executive of the republic. The court held the grant,
without such assent or approval, to be illegal and void, and
excluded it from the jury. The ruling in this respect con9titutes the only error assigned, which is properly before us
for consideration.
The irregularities in the record mentioned by counsel we
cannot notice, as they do not constitute the ground of any
alleged error.
The absence of the signature of the judge of the court to

CHRISTY V. PRIDGEO[N.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the bill of exceptions is not made the subject of objection by
the parties, and we hence infer that its omission was a mere
clerical error.
The doctrine, that prior possession is sufficient evidence
of title to maintain the action against a mere intruder and
trespasser, we do not find at all controverted or doubted by
the court below.
The only question presented by the bill of exceptions, and
this arises upon the ruling mentioned, relates to the validity
of the grant produced. The petition to the Governor upon
which the grant was made, solicited, by way of sale, eleven
leagues from the vacant lands of the department. This bore
date in March, 1831. The decree of concession, which
followed in April of the same year, gave the quantity as
solicited, and directed the proper local officers to give possession of the land to the grantee, and issue to him the appropriate title. :Neither the petition nor the concession
designated the land; and, in September, 1835, the grantee
applied to the alcalde of the district to place him in possession, and to issue to him the title of the eleven leagues in
the immediate vicinity of the "Red River of the Kachitoches." By order of this officer the land was surveyed,
and on the 22d of the same month formal evidence of title
was given to the grantee. The land thus ceded lay within
twenty leagues of what then constituted the boundary between the province of Texas and the United States.
The power of the Governor of Coahuila and Texas to
make the grant was derived fiotm the Mexican colonization
law of August 18th, 1824, and the legislation of the State,
which that law authorized. The object of that law was to
induce the settlement of the vacant lands of the Republic.
To this end the several States were empowered, under certain restrictions, to provide for the colonization of the lands
within their limits. Their legislation was, of course, subject
to the provisions of the fourth article of the law mentioned,
which declares that "those territories comprised within
twenty leagues of the boundaries of any foreign nation, or
within ten leagues of the sea-coast, cannot be colonized with-

Dec. 1866.]

CHRISTY' V. PRIDGEON.
Opinion of the court.

out the previous approval of the supreme general executive
power.'":&
This law of 1824, though general to the Republic of Mexico, was, so far as it affected lands within the limits of Texas,
after the independence of that country, a local law of the
new State-as much so as if it had originated in her legislation. It had at the time no operation in any portion of what

then constituted the United States. The interpretation,
therefore, placed upon it by the highest court of that State
must, according to the established principles of this court,
be accepted as the true interpretation, so far as it applies to
titles to lands in that State, whatever may be our opinion of
its original soundness. Nor does it matter that in the courts
of other States, carved out of territory since acquired from
Mexico, a different interpretation may have been adopted.
If such be the case, the courts of the United States will, in
conformity with the same principles, follow the different
ruling so far as it affects titles in those States. The interpretation within the jurisdiction of one State becomes a part
of the law of that State, as much so as if incorpordted into
the body of it by the legislature. If, therefore, different interpretations are given in different States to a similar local
law, that law in effect becomes by the interpretations, so far
as it is a rule for our action, a different law in one State
from what it is in the other. "That the statute laws of the
States," says Mr. Justice Johnson, in delivering the opinion
of this court in Shelby v. Guy,t "must furnish the rule of
decision of this court, as far as tley comport with the Constitution of the United States, in all cases arising within the
respective States, is a position that no one doubts. Nor is it
questionable that a fixed and received construction of their
respective statute laws, in their own courts, makes, in fact,
a part of the statute law of the country, however we may
doubt the propriety of that construction. It is obvious that
this admission may at times involve us in seeming in consisr
" See translation of the General Colonization Law of August 18th, 1824,
in appendix to Halleck's Report, Executive Documents, Senate, of 1849.
t 11 Wheaton, 367.

LANFEAR V. ]RUNLEY.

[Sup. Ct

Syllabus.

tencies-as where States have adopted the same statutes, and
their courts differ in the construction. -Yet that course is
necessarily indicated by the duty imposed upon us, to administer, as between certain individuals, the laws of the respective States, according to the best lights we possess of
what those laws are."
In construing the fourth article cited from the colonization law of Mexico, the Supreme Court of Texas has repeatedly held that it operated as a prohibition of any grant
of land within the littoral or coast leagues mentioned,
without the previous assent of the federal executive of
Mexico; that such assent was essential to the validity of a
grant within those limits, and that such assent was not to
be inferred from the existence of the grant, but must be
affirmatively established. A series of decisions to this purport, from an early history of the State down to the present
time, is found in the reports of her courts. These decisions
have become a rule of property in that State, any departure
from which would disturb titles to extensive and densely
settled districts of country.* We receive them, therefore,
to quote the language of this court, in League v. Egery, "as
having a binding force almost equivalent to positive law."t
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

LANFEAR V. HUNLEY.
1. The act of Congress of August 16th, 1856, confirming claims in favor of

Ambrose Lanfear, confirmed to him whatever he was entitled to by
virtue of the original grant referred to in it, conceding that to have
been valid. It neither enlarged nor diminished what the grant gave.
It extinguished all claim on the part of the United States to the land
covered by the surveys; but as regards adverse claimants, it determined
nothing, and concluded no otle.
* Goode v. McQueen's Heirs, 3 Texas, 241; Edwards v. Davis, Id. 321;
Smith v. Power, 23 Id. 32.
- 24 Howard, 266.

