:BROWN

v. :BASS.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

domain, and what was previously a grant of quantity, became a grant of a specific tract.
The record of a proceeding of this nature must necessarily
control the action of the officers of the United States in surveying land claimed under a confirmed Mlexican grant.
In the present case, juridical possession of the land had
been delivered to the grantee, and the record was produced
and given in evidence. The first survey of the land made
by the Surveyor-General of the United States for California,
after the confirmation, did not conform to the measurement
shown by this record. The District Court, for that reason,
set the survey aside, and directed a new survey, which should
correspond with that measurement.
To the application of the appellants for a change in the
location, the District Court held that there were insuperable
objections presented by the action of the officers under the
former government, and that it was the duty of the court to
locate the land according to the measurement made by the
alcalde, and signed by him and the assisting witnesses in the
record of proceedings upon the delivery of possession.
We fully concur in this view with the District Court, and,
therefore,
AFFIRM

ITS DECREE.

BRowN v. BASS.
1. Brown Brothers & Co. had filed a creditor's bill against the Bank of
Mississippi before having obtained judgment at law, which, however,
was obtained soon after the bill was filed. After this a receiver was appointed and proceeded to take possession of the assets of the bank, to
collect debts and compromise with debtors, and with the proceeds to pay
the debts of the bank.
2. The defendant, Mrs. Bass, having purchased land upon which the bank
had a mortgage, made an arrangement with the receivers by which the
latter transferred to her the mortgage and took her notes secured by
mortgage on the same land. These notes he passed to Brown Brothers

& Co. in part satisfaction of their judgment against the bank. Subsequently, after these proceedings had gone on for twelve years, the creditor's bill filed by Brown Brothers & Co. was dismissed for want of ju-

Dec. 1866.]

BRowN v. BASS.
Statement of the case.

risdiction, because no judgment had been obtained before the bill was
filed; and the receiver was ordered to. bring into court the assets of the
bank which he had received, and the proceeds of suck as he had parted
with. Failing to do this, because he had surrendered the assets to the
debtors, and turned over the proceeds to the creditors of the bank, the
bank on his report of these facts obtained a decree for the value of the
assets which bad come into his possession, including the mortgage surrendered to Mrs. Bass.
3. This suit being brought upon her notes and to foreclose the- mortgage
given by Mrs. Bass in the settlement with the receiver, she set up in
defence,
1st. That the notes were without consideration, because the receiver
had no authority to transfer to her the mortgage debt, in, settlement of
which they were given, and thus that debt was still a charge upon her
land.
2d. That if the notes given by her were valid, they belonged to the
bank, and not to the complainant, because the receiver had no authority
to transfer them to Brown Brothers & Ce-.
4. reld that the bank, by electing to charge the receiver with the value of
the securities surrendered by him in the settlement with Mrs. Bass, and
Brown Brothers & Co., had affirmed the transaction, and relinquished
all claim against Mrs. Bass or her land, and that consequently the defence set up by her was not sustained.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court -of the United States for
the Southern District of Mississippi.
A bill was filed in the court below toforeclose a mortgage
executed by C. R. Bass, now deceased, and Eugenic his wife,
on the 22d November, 1851, to Brown, to secure the payment of two promissory notes-one for the sum of $1704.03,
and the other for $1703.16-payable respectively 15,th January, 1854, and 1855, at a house in New Orleans.
The answer set up, by way of defence, in substance, that
Brown, to whom the mortgage and notes were given, was
not the legal or equitable owner of the same; but, on the
contrary, that the property in them belonged to the Bank of
Mississippi, and that the transaction out of which they arose
was illegal, and the notes and mortgage in the hands of
Brown void. The court below sustained the defence; and
the case was now here for review.

Messrs. Carlisle and
erdy Johnson, contra.

fc-Phe-rsonfor tlhe appellant. ifr. Rev.

264

BROWN v. BAss.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case in the opinion.

Mr.
I Justice RELSON delivered the opinion of the court,
stating previously the case.

The case is this: In the year 1840, C. R. Bass, the husband,
being indebted to the Bank of Mississippi for a considerable
amount, gave his notes for the debt, secured by a mortgage
of certain real estate in Washington County, State of Mississippi. In 1843, Brown Brothers & Co. filed a creditor's
bill against the bank in the Court of Chancery in the State,
obtained an injunction, and the appointment of a receiver,
with authority to proceed and collect the debts due the bank,
and among others this debt of C. R.. Bass. At this time
Mrs. Bass had become the owner of the equity of redemption of the mortgage to the bank, and was desirous of arranging the suit instituted by the receiver to foreclose the
same. An arrangement was agreed on accordingly between
her and the receiver, and Brown Brothers & Co., the complainants, by which the notes and mortgage of C. R. Bass
were given up to her, in consideration of which she and her
husband made to Brown, the complainant, a member of the
firm of Brown Brothers & Co., a draft and three promissory
notes, amounting in the whole to the sum of $6652.58, secured by mortgage, which mortgage and two of the notes
(the draft and the other having been paid) are now the subjects of this controversy.
The receiver, in making this arrangement on behalf of
the bank, obtained a credit on a judgment of Brown Brothers & Co. against it for the whole amount of the indebtedness of C. RI. Bass, the husband, a sum exceeding $8000.
This judgment against the bank amounted to about $159,000,
constituting at.least two-thirds of all its indebtedness. By
this arrangement Mrs. Bass saved more than $1500, and
also procured forbearance on her debt. 0. R. Bass owed
the bank, and the bank, Brown Brothers & Co. The latter
accepted the indebtedness of Bass, and accounted for it to
the bank by reducing its indebtedness to that amount. This
transaction took place in November, 1851, when the notes
and mortgage in question were given. The creditor's bill

Dec. 1866.]

BROWN

v. BASS.

Statement of the case in the opinion.

of Brown Brothers & Co. had been commenced in June
Term, 1843, and after a litigation of some thirteen years
the bill was dismissed for want of jurisdiction, in October,
1856. The grounds of the dismissal were, that the judgment at law of Brown Brothers & Co. had not been obtained and execution issued and- returned before the commencenient of the suit. The receiver had been appointed
at the June Term of the court in 1844, and consequently
bad been engaged in collecting the assets of the bank and
converting them into money, to be applied in discharge of
its indebtedness, upwards of twelve years at the time the
bill was dismissed.
The defence in the case rests upon the effect of the decree
dismissing the bill in respect to the past acts of the receiver,
in the collection of the debts of the bank, in the settlement
with its debtors, and in the general management of its assets
for the period mentioned.
On the part of the defendant it is insisted that his acts
were void, and are to be so regarded in all subsequent dealings with the assets since the dismissal of the bill; and
hence, that the adjustment of the debt of C. R. Bass and the
taking of the new securities to Brown were without authority
and illegal, or if legal, that the new securities belong to the
bank and not to Brown. In order to test the force and validity of these positions it is material to bring into view another branch of this case.
After the dismissal of the bill, and in January, 1857, it
was ordered, among other things, that the cause should be
retained in court for the purpose of proceeding against the
receiver, to enforce and close his account, and to compel the
return of the assets of the bank, or their proceeds, into
court, and the court recalled a previous order vacating his
appointment. And on the 27th January, 1855, it was, among
other things, ordered by the court that the receiver should
render an account, and "that he should bring into court all
notes, ]'. choses in action, anl moneys, and all other property which came into his hands, and the proceeds thereof,
as well as all securities, notes, bonds, liens, mortgages, as he may

266

BRowN v. BASS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case in the opinion.

have taken and received to secure or in payment of any of said
liabilities which came into his hands," &c.
And again, in December, 1857, the receiver was ordered
to deliver into court "all notes, bonds," .c., "and securities of
every kind that he may have taken or received by way of substitution or in payment or compromise of any of the debts, notes, choses
in action, or securities of any kind which came into his hands as
receiver."
The receiver, in his report, on the 7th April, 1857, in pursuance of these orders, states that, acting in good faith, and
believing that he had power to do so, and with the consent
of the complainants in that suit, who, as shown by the answer of the bank, were the principal creditors, and in fact
the only creditors, with the exception of note-holders and
depositors to a small extent, whose claims had been almost
if not entirely extinguished by him, and, as he believes,
with the approbation of all parties, he proceeded, by compromises and settlements with various persons, debtors of
the bank, instead of collections by law, which were wholly
impossible, to settle the various amounts, &c.; that many
of the settlements were made with the directors themselves,
who were among the principal debtors of the bank. He
proceeds:
"Your receiver is advised that if he did not have the
power to make said settlements and compromises, the assets
so by him arranged and disposed of would still remain the
property of the bank; but that he is unable to return the
property, for the reason that he is not in possession of the
same, having parted with the possession in good faith and
in discharge of a supposed duty (in settling the afihirs of the
bank), and that the court will not require of him a legal
impossibility by compelling him to return what he has no
control of."
He further states, that he executed a receiver's bond in
the sum of $300,000, with undoubted security, in court, and
that the rights of any parties to said assets cannot be injured.
That many of the settlements and arrangements were made
by Brown Brothers & Co., complainants in the creditors'

Dec. 1866.]

BROWN

v. BASS.

Opinion of the court.

bill, with directors of the bank, and that transfers were
made by the complainants in many instances, as will be
seen, of portions of this judgment, on the faith of which
your receiver gave up the assets thus settled and arranged,
believing that in law and equity he was bound to do so. In
other cases the debtors of the bank, and among them some
of the directors, made compromises with the complainants;
and in such cases your receiver delivered to the omplainants
the evidences of the indebtedness of such debtors, on obtaining a credit for the full amount of such assets on the
judgment.
Hlle closes the report by returning all the assets in his hands
undisposed of, and which were described in the statements
and exhibits thereinafter refei'red to; also, the circulation
of the bank which he had taken up, and which, if not all,
is nearly all of the circulation that was issued by the bank,
and that the only other indebtedness of said bank, of any
magnitude, is the debt due the complainants.
Exceptions were afterwards taken to this report by the
bank, and allowed. It is not material specially to refer to
them. And in November, 1859, it was adjudged and decreed that the receiver pay forthwith into court the sum of
$125,243.85, the amount of money in his hands, as receiver,
unaccounted for; and also the further sum of $227,044.29,
being the amount of bonds, bills, assets, &c., which came
into his hands as receiver, and unaccounted for-amounting
in all to the sum of $349,259.14; and the receiver having
failed to pay into court this sum as ordered, a decree was
entered, directing a writ of scire facias against his sureties,
among whom were the complainants, Brown Brothers & Co.
The sum adjudged against the receiver and his sureties included the assets surrendered on compromises and settlements, and which had been applied upon the judgment, and,
of course, embracing the indebtedness of C. IR.Bass to the
bank, the settlement in respect to which is the subject of
controversy in this suit.
The question upon this state and posture of the case is

BI OWN v. :BASS.

[Sup. ot.

Opinion of the court.

whether or not the bank is entitled to a remedy against the
receiver and his sureties for this old indebtedness of C. R.
Bass, deceased, thus compromised and satisfied by the new
and substituted securities, and also against the estate or legal
representatives of the deceased, founded upon the original
securities, which it is claimed were surrendered without authority ?
In our judgment it is not. Even assuming that the compromise and surrender of these old securities and the substitution of the new were not authorized, and might have been
set aside and annulled, the bank having elected to charge
the receiver with this indebtedness, has thereby affirmed
the transaction, and left the parties to the arrangement as
they stood when it was entered into.
This result, we think, is clearly deducible from the proceedings on the part of the bank and the decrees of the
court. From the report of the receiver, it appears that as
it respects this debt, and others in the like condition, it was
not in his power to produce before the court either the
original or substituted securities. The original were in the
hands of the debtors of the bank, to whom they had been
surrendered, and the new securities in the hands of third
persons to whom they had been delivered. The bank, on
the supposition that the acts of the receiver were void, could
have pursued its remedy against the original debtors, and
perhaps against the persons holding the new securities, if
not negotiable and in the hands of bonafide holders for value,
or it could have proceeded by attachment against the receiver and dealt with him until he had exhausted all the
means in his power to repossess himself of these securities.
But no steps in this direction have been taken. No intimation has been given by any proceeding under the decree
dismissing the bill, or otherwise, of an intent to disturb the
debtors of the bank or the adjustments by the receiver. It
has accepted the proposition of this officer in his report to
look to his bond for indemnity against any wrongs or losses
sustained in the discharge of the duties of his office. Indeed, it is manifest that a resort to the original debtors or

Dec. 1866.]

BRowN v. BASS.
Opinion of the court.

to the substituted securities for the purpose of collecting or
realizing the assets would have been ruinous, not only to
the bank but to the debtors. The receiver had been diligently engaged for some thirteen years in the service and
had exhausted the resources of the debtors. A second call
on them would have been hopeless.
The bank was insolvent, and proceedings were pending
to take away its charter. Its organization had been given
up as early as 1844, and the business abandoned. In this
condition the receiver, under the order of the court, was
the only person to deal with its assets, and to administer
upon them in a way most beneficial to all concerned.
N"o doubt this obvious view of the affairs of the institution, together with the complications and inextricable confusion into whidh the assets had become involved by the
dismissal of the chancery suit, led to the election of a remedy against the receiver in preference to a resort against the
original debtors.
Another reason for considering the bank concluded by
the election is, that no notice has been given to the debtors
of an intention to look to them for payment, and at the
same time forbidding payment to the holders of the new
securities. This notice it was a duty to give, in all fairness,
to prevent loss to the debtors. Seven years have elapsed
since the decree against the receiver. Doubtless a large
portion of these new securities have, in the meantime, been
paid. The present appellee, irs. Bass, has already paid
more than half of her indebtedness upon the new securities.
This absence of any claim against the debtors, as well as
against the holders of the substituted securities, shows that
great injustice would necessarily result from permitting the
defence relied on in the present case. Full value has been
received for the' notes and mortgage in controversy by Mrs.
Bass and by the bank. The old securities were surrendered
to her and an equal amount of the indebtedness of the bank

extinguished. She has enjoyed the consideration thus paid
for some fourteen years without any adverse claim or attempted disturbance of the arrangement. There has-been

270

MITCHELL V. BURLINGTON.

[Sup.

at.

Syllabus.

no eviction or disturbance of possession by an attempt to
foreclose the old mortgage against the lands covered by it.
She has been in the undisturbed enjoyment of the rents and
profits for aught that appears down to the present time.
Even as respects Irs. Bass, and independently of the foregoing considerations, in analogy to the rule applicable to
the sale of real estate, or any interest therein, which obliges
the purchaser to pay the purchase-money according to his
contract, notwithstanding the failure of title, unless evicted
or the possession disturbed by paramount title, the payment
of the demand in the present case, we think, should be enforced. The principle is as applicable to the sale of personal chattels as to that of real property.
Upon the whole, without pursuing the case further, our
conclusion is, that the defendant below has failed to establish
the want of title in the complainant to the mortgage which
he is seeking to foreclose and the notes accompanying the
same, or a title in the Bank of Mississippi, by force of which
she ma be subjected to a second payment of the same indebtedness. She does not deny but that she owes the debt,
nor does she seek to avoid the payment. The question
which is important to her and which she desires to have determined is as to the proper party to receive the payment.
We think the complainant is that party.
The decree of the court below reversed and the cause remitted, with directions to that court to enter a decree for the
complainant in conformity with this opinion.
DECREE ACCORDINGLY.

MITOHELL V. BURLINGTON.
1. A provision in the charter of a city corporation authorizing it to borrow
money for any public purpose, whenever, in the opinion of the City
Council, it shall be expedient to exercise it, is a valid power. Rogers v.
Burlington (3 Wallace, 654) affirmed.

2. Money borrowed by such a corporation to construct a plank-road, if the

