Dec. 1866.]

V.
MAYOR
]

SHEFFIELD.

Statement of the case.

The suit being in the Circuit Court for the District of
Louisiana was commenced by petition, and according to the
practice in such cases; there is annexed to the petition a
copy of the note sued on, and of the protest and certificate
of notice to the indorsers. But this is merely a copy attached
to, and a part of the pleading, and is certainly not the paper
which was offered in evidence. It may or may not be a perfect copy of that paper; but whether it is so or not, it is
certain that it does not become a part of the bill of exceptions by being attached to the pleading.
If a paper which is to constitute a part of a bill of exceptions, is not incorporated into the body of the bill, it must
be annexed to it, or so marked by letter, number, or other
means of identification mentioned in the bill, as to leave no
doubt, when found in the record, that it is the one referred
to in the bill of exceptions.
There is nothing of the kind here; and as we must presume the ruling of the court to be right, in the absence of
anything showing it to be wrong, the judgment must be
AFFIRmED.

MAYOR V. SHEFFIELD.

1. *Where a corporation is sued for an injury growing out of negligence of
the corporate authorities, in their care of the streets of the corporation,
they cannot defend themselves on the ground that the formalities of the
statute were not pursued in establishing the street originally.
2. If the authorities of a city or town have treated a place as a public street,
taking charge of it, and regulating it as they do other streets, they cannot, when sued for such injury, defend themselves by alleging want of
authority in establishing the street.

ERnOR to the Circuit Court for the Southern District of
New York.
The action below was brought by W. P. Sheffield, against
the Mayor, &c., of New York, to recover damages for injuries received by him from stumbling over a stump at the

MAkYOR 11. SHEFFIELD.

Esup. Ot

Statement of the case.

edge of the sidewalk around the lower end of the City Hall
Park, in the city of New York.
Upon the trial it appeared that on the 16th December,
1857, Sheffield, while crossing, in the evening, the lower
end of the City lall Park, fell over a stump above the level
of the sidewalk and broke his thigh-bone; that the stump
was about fourteen inches distant fr-om the curb of the sidewalk, and .was about six inches high and four inches in
diameter at the top.
It also appeared that the place where the stump stood,
was, prior to the 18th November, 1847, and had been for
more than thirty years, within and a portion of the City
Hall Park; but that on the day just named, the Common
Council of New York adopted an ordinance authorizing the
Committee on Lands and Places, together with the street
commissioner, to adjust the lower corner line of the Park,
so as to make a curve, &c., and that under this ordinanceto the reading of which the counsel of the city, for reasons
which will appear in the argument, excepted-the committee and street commissioner shortened the Park twenty
feet, cut down a tree there, and threw those twenty feetwithin which the stump of the tree-the stump which had
caused the accident, stood-into the public street.
The court charged thus:
"The corporate authority of New York, by virtue of their
charter and of the laws, have the charge and control of the
streets and sidewalks within the corporate limits, and they are
bound to keep them in good and safe condition. If they leave
an opening in the sidewalk, as is sometimes done, and a person
coming along in the night falls into it, without any want of
proper care on his part, the defendants are liable for any injury
that may be occasioned. So if an obstruction on the face of the
sidewalk, over which a person stumbles-boxes, if you pleaseleft out on the sidewalk on a dark night, or barrels, over which
a person stumbles and falls, in the absence of want of care on
his part, the defendants are equally liable for the injury. The
opening in the one case and the obstruction in the other constitute the negligence, are evidence of negligence on the part of

Dec. 1866.]

MAYOR V.

SHEFFIELD.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

the authorities who have the control of the matter, and in order
to escape from the charge of liability, the burden is thrown
upon them to disprove negligence.
"If the plaintiff in this class of cases has been himself guilty
of negligence, and which materially contributed to the injury,
then he cannot recover, even if the defendants have been shown
to be gailty of negligence. The plaintiff must be free from fault."
Verdict and judgment having gone for the plaintiff, the
case was now here on exceptions to the evidence as above
mentioned, aid charge.
Mr. O' Gormanfor the City, plaintiffin error1. The stump over which the defendant in error fell was
not in a public street. The judgment df the court below,
therefore, cannot be sustained.
(a.) The position taken by the plaintiff is that owing to
the neglect of the plaintiff in error to remove an obstruction
from a public street, the injuries complained of were received
and the damages recovered sustained. Now prior to 1847,
the place where the accident occurred and the stump stood,
was a part of the City Hail Park, and the only evidence that
such place ever became a part of a public street is the resolution of the Common Council authorizing the street commissioner to curve the lower end of the Park, and the action
of that officer under that resolution in cutting off twenty feet
therefrom.
Did this resolution, the action of the street commissioner
under it, and the subsequent use by the public of the space
cut off from the Park, constitute that space a part of a public street? The resolution cannot have that effect, for the
reason that the Common Council had no power to pass it.*
Prior to 1847, the ,space where the accident occurred had
been a part of and in use as a public park for more than
thirty years; and within the principles established by the
authorities cited in the note, it was incompetent for the Corn* Commonwealth v. Alburger, 1 Wharton, 469, 485; Commonwealth v.
Rtush, 14 Pennsylvania State, 186; Lawrence v. Mayor, 2 Barbour, 577.

MAYOR V. SHEFFIELD.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

mon Council to diminish the Park by throwing a part of it
into the street. The ordinance being void, the act of the
street commissioner was without authority.
(b.) The space in question as a part of the public park was
a portion of the real estate owned by the corporation of the
city of New York.
In 1844 this real estate was, by an ordinance duly enacted,
pledged to the redemption of the city debt. This pledge
was in 1845 confirmed and made absolute by an act of the
State Legislature.* The effect of this ordinance and act
was to deprive the Common Council of any power to sell or
dispose of any of the real estate of the corporation. The same
principle which would justify the conversion of a portion
of the park into a street would support any other disposition
of the public property which the Common Council might
choose to make. It is manifest, therefore, that neither the
resolution of the Common Council nor the act of the street
commissioner could constitute the space in question a part
of a public street, for the reason that the resolution was void
and the act of the officer unauthorized.
(c.) In the city of New York the laying out, opening, altering, and widening of public streets is regulated- by statute.t
A statute of the State provides that whenever any street.
to
be laid out, opened, altered, enlarged, or improved,
is
the mayor, aldermen, and commonalty must apply to the
Supreme Court for the appointment of commissioners. It
is made the duty of the commissioners to view the lands
and tenements required for the improvement, and to make
a just and equitable assessment of the loss and damage over
the benefit and advantage. The statute further provides
that if any lands, tenements, or premises belonging to the
mayor, aldermen, and commonalty of the city of New York
shall be required for the improvement, they shall be compensated for the loss and damage they sustain in like manner as other owners and proprietors of premises. The stat* Revised Ordinances of 1859, chapter 9, p. 190-202.
1845, chapter 225, p. 248, 5.
176, 178.
t Session Laws, 1813, chapter 86,

Session Laws of

Dec. 1866.]

e

AYOR V. SHEFFIELD.
Opinion of the court.

ute then enacts, that upon the confirmation by the Supreme
Court of the report which the commissioners are required
to make, the lands taken shall be appropriated and kept
open for a public street forever. Until, therefore, this space
in question is shown to have been taken in conformity with
requirements of statute, it cannot be regarded as a public
street.* The space in question having never been accepted
as a part of a public street in the manner provided by law,
the corporation were not bound to remove the stump, nor
are they liable for the injuries received by the defendant in
error.t
2. The charge asserts, that the existence of an obstruction in a street is evidence of negligence and constitutes
negligence, and throws upon the defendants the buiden of
disproving the negligence. Under this charge, no question
was left to the jury; for if the existence of the obstruction
constitutes the negligence, it is clearly impossible to disprove
the negligence without disproving the existence of the obstruction, and the charge was equivalent to saying that in
every case in which an obstruction exists in a street, the defendants would be liable.
In addition, it wholly disregards the necessity of notice
to the city authorities of the existence of the obstruction.
.3r. TV. P. Sheffield, contra. T
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
1. The first error claimed to be found in the record of this
* Matter of Seventeenth Street, 1 Wendell, 262; City of Oswego v. Oswego Canal Co., 2 Selden, 6 N. Y. Rt. 257; Clements v. Village of West
Troy, 16 Barbour, 251; Northumberland v. Atlantic an& St. Lawrence
R. 1R. Co., 36 New Hampshire, 574; Commonwealth v. Kelly, 8 Grattan,
632; Holmes v. Jersey City, 1 Beasley, 299; Reed v. Town of Cornwall,
27 Connecticut, 48; Underwood v. Stuyvesant, 19 Johnson, 181.
t Bowman v. City of Boston, 5 Cushman, 1.
t He cited among other cases, The Mayor, 5 Selden, 163, S. P., Tbi
Mayor . Furze, 3 Hill, 612; Rochester White Lead Co. v. The City, 3
Comstock, 464; Conrad v. Trustees, 16 'New York, 158; Rex v. Hudson,
2 Strange, 909; Trustees v. Merryweather, 11 East, 375; Hobbs v. Lowell,
19 Pickering, 409; Cincinnati v. White, 6 Peters, 431.
VOL. IV.

13

MAYOR V. SIHEFFIELD.

[Sup. Or.

Opinion of the court.

case is based on the proposition of the defendant below, that
the locus in quo was not a legally established public street,
and therefore the city was not liable for its condition. On
this point the court ruled adversely to the city.
The facts as shown by the bill of exceptions in reference
to this matter are in substance these: The place where the
accident occurred was formerly a part of the City Hall Park,
the property of the corporation of the city. of zLew York.
In November, 1847, the City Council ordered that the lower
corner-line of the Park be so adjusted as to make a curve,
instead of corners and aiugles, from Broadway to Chatham
Street. The execution of those orders, placed in the street
the ground where the plaintiff received his injury, and it
became a part of the sidewalk at that place.
it is now argued that this is not a street, because the land
was not condemned agreeably to a certain statute of the
State for the opening and widening of streets. This statute
was intended to secure to private land-owners compensation
for their property taken for public uses, and can have no application to the case of an appropriation by the City Council,
of land owned by the city to the purpose of a street.
It is also said that the Park is, both by contract and by
statute, pledged for the redemption of the city debt, and
therefore cannot be thus appropriated. It will be time
enough to consider this question when some creditor of the
city shall raise it. The legal title and the present use and
possession are in the city, and were when the land was converted into a street, and it does not lie in the mouth of the
city authorities, under these circumstances, to claim exemption for their negligence in the manner of making this conversion, under the plea that the act was a violation of their
duty to public creditors.
If the authorities of a city or town have treated a place

as a public street, taking charge of it and regulating it as
they do other streets, and an individual is injured in consequence of the negligent and careless manner in which this
is done, the corporation cannot, when it is sued for such injury, throw the party upon an inquiry into the regularity of

Dec. 1866.]

MAYOR V. SHEFFIELD.

Opinion of the court.

the proceedings by which the land became a street, or into
the authority by which the street was originally established.
2. The second error is supposed to have been found in an
exception to the following language of the court in the charge
to the jury: "If they (the corporate authorities) leave an
opening in the sidewalk, which is sometimes done, and a
person coming along in the night falls into it, without any
want of proper care on his part, the defendants are-liable for
any injury that may be occasioned. So, if an obstruction
in the face of a sidewalk, over which a person stumbles-a
box, if you please, left out on the sidewalk on a dark night,
or barrels, over which a person stumbles and falls in the
absence of want of care on his part-the defendants are
equally liable for the injury. The opening, in the one case,
and the obstruction, in the other, constitute the negligence
on the part of the authorities who have control of the matter, and, in order to escape from the charge of liability, the
burden is thrown upon them to disprove the negligence."
To this charge it is objected that it precluded the defendants from any attempt to show that they were not guilty of
negligence, because, if the obstruction constituted the negligence, the existence of the obstruction being proved, no
defence could be offered. But this is a verbal criticism not
justified by the language of the court, which in the same
sentence declares that, in order to escape from liability, the
burden is thrown upon defendants to disprove the negligence. No one can read the charge without seeing that the
jury must have understood the court as meaning, that the
existence of those obstructions was such evidence of negligence as required of the authorities explanations in order to
escape liability.
Another objection to this charge is that it ignores the necessity of notice to the authorities of the existence of the
obstruction'
It is certainly true, as a general proposition, that before
the corporate authorities can be held liable in this class of
cases, it must be shown that they knew of the existence of
the cause of injury, or had been notified of it, or such'a state

CHRISTY V. PRIDGEON.

[Sup. Ct

Syllabus.

of circumstances must be shown that notice would be implied. And it is true that this charge makes no reference to
notice whatever. But when we look into the facts of this
case, as shown by the bill of exceptions, we discover a very
plain reason why this was omitted. The question of notice,
as a fact, could not be disputed, and therefore did not arise
as a matter on which the jury required instructions.
The city authorities, in converting the part of the Park
already mentioned into a street, had cut down a tree, and
left the stump standing from six to eight inches above the
surface, and from fourteen to eighteerf inches inside the

curbstone, on the sidewalk. This was done in 1847; and
this stump, thus left by the city authorities, who had cut
down the tree, remained in thht condition until the time of
the accident to plaintiff, in 1857.
These facts were uncontradicted, and stronger proof of
notice could not be given. It closed the question, and the
omission in the judge's charge of -ny reference to that subject was justified by the testimony. It would have been
euperifuous.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

CHRISTY V. PRIDGEON.

1. The Mexican colonization law of August 18th, 1824, though general to
the fRepublic of Mexico, was, so far as it affected lands within the limits
of Texas, after the independence of that country, a local law of the new
State, as much so as if it had originated in her legislation. The interpretation, therefore, placed on it by the highest court of the State, must
be accepted as the true interpretation, so far as it applies to titles to
lands in that State, whatever may be the opinion of this court of its
original soundness. If in courts of other States carved dut of territory
since acquired from Mexico, a different interpretation has been adopted,
the courts of the United States will follow the different ruling, so far as
it affects titles in those States.
2. The interpretation within the jurisdiction of a State of a local law, becomes a part of that law, as much so as if incorporated in the body of

