UNITED STATES V. LE BARON.

[Sup. t

Statement of the case.

the proper process of the court, it shall be placed in. the custody of the marshal of the district.
When, therefore, in this case, the prize commissioners
certified to the court below that the prize steamer Nassan
had arrived in the District of New York, and was delivered
into their hands, there was sufficient evidence before the
court that the vessel was claimed as prize of war, and in the
jurisdiction of a prize court; and the motion to dismiss this
libel, filed by private parties, was properly entertained and
decided.
Whether a maritime lien, like the one in this case, is lost,
when the property is captured jure belli, would have been a
proper question for investigation and decision by the prize
court that condemned the Nassau, and which the libellants,
on presentation to that tribunal, could have had decided.
Not having done so, the question is not before this court
for review.
The decree of the Circuit Court is
_AFFIRMED.

UNITED STATES V.

LE

BARON.

1. 'When a contract is alleged by the pleadings to have been made on a certain day, it is no variance to offer in evidence a written contract which
took effect on a different day.
2. If it be proved that a bond bearing date the first day of the month, did
not become obligatory until .the fifteenth, this is no variance, although
the bond is counted on in the pleadings as a contract made on the first
day .ofthe month and bearing that date.

ERR-o to the Circuit Court for the Southern District of
Alabama.
This was an action of debt brought by the United States
against Le Baron, surety of Beers, deputy postmaster at
Mobile, on an official bond, dated thefirst of July, 1850.
The declaration set out"For that whereas, heretofore, to wit, on the first day of Juy,
A. D. 1850, at Mobile, to wit, in the State aforesaid and within

Dec. 1866.]

UNITED STATES v. LE BARON.

643

Statement of the case.

the jurisdiction of this court, the said Le Baron, by his certain
writing obligatory sealed with his seal, &c.,acknowledged himlself
to be held and firmly bound to the United States in the sum of
820,000."
The assignments of the breaches were laid in these words:
"That while the said Beers was deputy postmaster as aforesaid under said writing obligatory, and after the making and
delivery thereof, to wit, on the 10th day of July aforesaid, and
divers other days before the commencement of the suit," &c.
The case had been already before this court at December
Term, 1856, and is reported in 19 Howard.* The facts then
thus appeared,
Beers was appointed deputy postmaster at Mobile by the
President during the recess of the Senate, and received a
commission bearingdate in April, 1849, to continue in force
until the end of the next session of the Senate, that is to say
until the 30th of September, 1850.
In April, 1850, before the old term had expired, he was
nominated by the President to the Senate for the same
office; and the nomination having been confirmed, a commission was made out and signed by President Taylor, but
the President dying, it had not been transmitted to him at
the'date of the bond, July 1st. The condition of the bond
was simply that whereas Beers was "deputy postmaster at
Mobile," "now, if he should well and truly execute the
duties of the said office," the bond should be void. There
was nothing therefore in the bond to show to which term
of office it meant to apply; whether to the earlier one which
underlaid the second, or to the second which overlapped partially the first. The default assigned as a breach of the bond
was admitted to have occurred under the second appointment; and the principal question on the writ of error then
before this court, was, whether the bond secured the faithful
performance of the duties of the office under the first or
under the second appointment.
* Page 73.

644

UNITEp STATES V.

LE

BARON.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the surety.

The third plea of the defendant alleged that from the 1st
July until the 30th September, Beers was deputy postmaster, under an Executive appointment, made by the President
during the recess of Congress, and that the bond sued on
was intended to apply to that appointment and to that term
alone, and that during that term no default had occurred.
The replication was "that on and after the delivery by the defendant of the bond aforesaid, to wit, on the'lst day of July,"
and from thenceforward for four years, Beers held under
the appointment confirmed by the Senate, and that the bond
was made for the faithful discharge of duty under this appointment-the last one. The rejoinder was, that "at the
time of the execution of the bond," Beers was not postmaster under the appointment set forth in the replication, but
under the Executive appointment-and that the bond secured the performance of duty only during the time mentioned in the plea. Issue was joined on this rejoinder of the
defendant.
The court held that the bond being an official and statutory bond, spoke, not like ordinary bonds, from its date, but
from the time when it reached the Postmaster-General and
was accepted by him. The judgment was reversed and a
venire de novo awarded.
On a subsequent trial it was proved that the bond was accepted July 15th. Thereupon the Circuit Court instructed
the jury that if the bond given in evidence was not approved
until July 15th, 1850, there was a variance between the allegation and the proof. And a verdict having gone accordingly for the defendant, the instruction just mentioned was
the chief matter now assigned as error. A few exceptions
to the admission of evidence also appeared upon the record.
Messrs. _Reverdy Johnson, B . S. Dargan, and (G. 2. Stewart,
for the defendants in error:
The substance of the issue was, whether Beers was, on the.
first day of July, 1850, deputy postmaster under his appointment confirmed by the Senate. Whether he was or not,
depended on the question whether the bond was accepted

Dec. 1866.]

UNITED STATES V.

LE

.DARON.

Argument for the surety.

on that day, and thus became a perfect obligation on the
said first day. The proof showing that the bond was not
accepted until the 15th, there could, under the decision in
19th Howard, when the case was here before, be no other
instructions given than were given by the court. The
declaration described one bond and proved another.
Suppose that the pleader had in his replication alleged
the true clay on which the bond was accepted, and the office,
to which it was intended to apply, vested, that is to say that
be had alleged in his replication that the bond was accepted
by the Postmaster-General on the 15th of July, 1850 this
replication would have been a clear departure from the
declaration, which described a bond operative from the first
of that month.
In Uall v. Matthew .Denbighand others, reported so far back
as Croke Elizabeth,* the declaration described a deed as
bearing date the first of November (39 Eliz.), but did not
aver when it was delivered. After judgment, there was a
motion in arrest of judgment, because it was not averred
when the deed was delivered: after several arguments, the
court said the declaration was well enough, because it must
be intended that the deed was delivered on the day of its
date, and further, if it had been delivered on a subsequent
day, and so averred in the replication, this would have been
a departure.
The later case of Williams v. Tones,t is to the same effect
and in principle similar to ours. The declaration in our
case describes a bond dated the 1st July. By implication,
this means delivery on that day. A delivery on another day
may be proved, it is true, by parol, because as this court has
decided in regard to this particular bond, there is a case of
exception to the general rule, and such proof is held not to
contradict the instrument;j but when it is proved, the bond
is varied, and no longer conforms to the bond described nor
to the profert, and is therefore fatally variant from both.
Page 773.
19 Howard, 73.

t 5 Barnwell and Cresswell, 108.

"Y\ITED STATES V.

LE BARON.

[Sup. Ot.

Argument for the United States.

It is true that the replication to the third plea asserts that
the bond was made for the proper discharge of the duties
of the second office, and the rejoinder says it applied to and
covered only the time set forth in the plea, and no other.
But these are only the legal conclusions of the pleaders, and
not averments of fact. These allegations are not traversable
nor issuable, involve questions of law only depending on the
facts alleged and proved, which alone can determine the
duties involved by th~e contract. These assertions, then, on
both sides, are wholly immaterial.*
The plaintiff undertook, therefore, by his pleadings, to
establish before the jury four propositions: 1. That the bond
was made and delivered on the 1st of July, 1850, and was
operative from that day. 2. That Beers was in office on
that day under the second appointment. 3. That the senatorial term of office, or second term, embraced the time as
early as the 1st July, 1850. 4. That as a consequence the
defendant was liable for moneys received by the postmaster
on the 1st and 10th of July, 1850.
But with the admitted fact that the bond was not accepted
till July 15th, and the decision when the case was here before, that it operated but from that day, he undertook an
impossibility.
Mr. Ashton, Assistant Attorney- General, for the plaintiff in
error:
The bond given in evidence sustained the declaration.
The time of the making it is laid under a videlicet. It was
not, therefore, necessary to prove it as averred.t Though a
deed takes effect only from its delivery, yet the delivery need
not be stated in pleading.1 A plaintiff may reply or show in
evidence that a deed was really made on a different day
from that of its date as stated in the body of it.ยง
In the plaintiff's replication to the third plea the time of
29.
t McDade v. The State, 20 Alabama, 81.
: Tompkins v. Corwin, 9 Cowen, 255.
Serle v. Darford, I Lord Raymond, 120.

* Gould on Pleading, 183,

Dec. 1866.]

'UNITEDSTATES v. LE BARON.

647

Opinion of the court.

the making and delivery of the bond are laid under a videl-

icet.
The issue was joined on the rejoinder of the defendant to
this replication. The rejoinder was: "That at the time of the
execution" of the bond "Beers was not postmaster in the
manner and for the term of office set forth in the replication, but was postmaster by Presidential appointment."
The execution of the bond included its signing, sealing,
and delivery.4 The making of the bond would seem to be
the writing of it.t This rejoinder, then, tendered the substantial issue in the case, and upon that the parties went to

trial.
The former decision of this court covers the merits of the

case now.
Mr. Justice ILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
It was decided, when this case was in this court before,
that the bond, which is the foundation of the suit, was obligatory from the time of its acceptance by the PostmasterGeneral, and not fr-om its date; and also that the term of
office of Beers commenced, under his appointment, by and
with the advice and consent of the'Senate, on the day of that
acceptance.
The case having been remitted to the Circuit Court for a
new trial, that court directed a verdict for the defendant, on
the ground that there was a variance between the bond
offered in evidence and the one set out in the pleadings.
The variance is supposed to have reference to the time the
bond took effect. It is claimed that the bond is described
as being dated and taking effect on the 1st day of July, 1850,
whereas the evidence showed, that while it bore that date
on its face, it was not approved by the Postmaster-General
Until the fifteenth day of that month, and, therefore, under
the decision in 19th Howard, did not become the bond of
defendant until the last-mentioned date.
* Burrill's Law Dictionary, tit. "Execution."
t Hall v. Cazenave, 4 East, 481.

UNITED STATES

v. LB

BARON.

[Sup. CL.

Opinion of the court.

Upon an examination of the declaration, it will be seen
that the plaintiff declares on the bond, according to its legal
effect, namely, that on July 1st, 1850, the defendant, by his
certain writing obligatory, acknowledged himself indebted
to the plaintiff in the sum of $20,000. This manner of declaring gives no date to the bond, and merely gives the
time when defendant became bound by it to the plaintiff.
The rule that allegations of time, quantity, value, &c., need
not be proved with precision, but that a very large departure
from the time, quantity, &c., alleged, is allowable, is so well
understood, and is so much a matter of every-day practice,
that no citation of authority to sustain it is necessary. An
indictment charging a prisoner with nurder on the first day
of July would be sustained by provPig a murder committed
on the fifteenth of that month. How much more reasonable
that a contract alleged to have been made on the first, may
be supported by evidence of the same contract made on the
fifteenth of the month?
But it is also a rule of evidence that when words used in
a declaration are descriplike of the instrument declared on, it
must, when offered in evidence, conilbrm strictly to that description ; and we concede that if it is alleged as part of the
-description of such an instrument that it bears such a date,
,or is dated of such a day, that no instrument will be admissible which does not bear that date.
It is said by counsel that this declaration gives such a
descriptioi of the date of the bond. A careful examination of it, however, shows no attempt at such description, and merely the usual necessary allegation of the time
when the contract was made. If, however, counsel are correct in their construction of the declaration, still there is
no variance, because the bond read in evidence actually
bears the date which it is claimed that the declaration
ascribes to it, and it therefore conforms to the supposed
description.
It is no variance, however, from the substance of the issue
to show that, though dated the first of July, it took effect
only on the fifteenth, because, as we have already shown

Dec. 1866.]

UNITED STATES V.

LE

BAR0Nr.

Opinion of the court.

the precise time when the contract became obligatory need
not be proved on trial.
The attempt to show that, by the pleadings subsequent to
the declaration, it became necessary to prove that the contract became obligatory on the very day alleged, is equally
unsuccessful.
The defendant, by his third plea, alleges that from July
1st to Sef)tember 30th his principal was deputy postmaster,
under an appointment not confirmed by the Senate, and that
the bond sued on was applicable to this appointment and to
this period alone, and that during that time no ,default or
breach of its condition occurred. The replication is, that on
the day of the date of the bond, and from thenceforward
for four years, Beers, the deputy postmaster, held under the
appointment confirmed by the Senate, and that the bond
covered his transactions during that time. To this defendant rejoined that Beers was not postmaster under the appointment set forth in the replication, but under the first-a
Presidential appointment-and that the bond covered only
the time mentioned in the plea.
As it was proved on the trial that the bond was accepted
on the 15th July, 1850, it follows, under the former decision
of this court, that from that time forth the bond coveredhis
liability, and that it was under the last appointment. The
plea of the defendant fails, therefore, except as to the time
between the first and fifteenth of July. It is not perceived
how the precise day when the bond took effect is material
otherwise than this, and the court, by refusing to permit
any breach to be proved within those fifteen days, would
have fully protected the defendant.
All these pleas have relation to the legal effect of the bond,
and none of them describe a bond different from the one offered in evidence. After the day had been fixed by proof
at which the contract became binding, it was material that
no breach should be proved before that time; but the proof
which fixed that date was no variance from any pleading of
the plaiutiff, nor from the substance of any issue made in
the case.

RAILROAD COMPANY V. LINDSAY.

[Sup. Ot.

Statement of the case.

As these principles require a reversal of the case, it is not
deemed necessary to notice the other exceptions, which are
unimportant, and may not arise on a new trial.
JUDGMENT REVERSED.

RAILROAD

COMPANY V. LINDSAY.

1. The article 3499 of the Civil Code of Louisiana, which prescribes that
"actions for the payment of freight of ships and other vessels are prescribed by one year," does not apply to a case where the plaintiffs were
shipbrokers only and not shipowners, and where the contract was not
one of affreightment.
2. A demand cannot be regarded as an open account where there is a contract which is the foundation of the claim, and which, though not fulfilled according to its letter, either as to the time or place of delivery,
yet with the qualifications which the law under such circumstances imposes, determines the respective liabilities of the parties.
3. Where none of the evidence offered by a plaintiff is objected to below,
and no exception taken to the findings of the court there, objection cannot ba made in this court.
4. An allegation of variance between the averments of a petition and the
findings of the court, where there is no allegation that the findings were
unwarranted by the proofs, or that the judgment does not conform to
the law and justice of the case as presented by the findings, will not be
sustained.
5. Such case comes within the thirty-second section of the Judiciary Act,
curing imperfections, defects, or want of form in the pleadings or course
of proceedings, except such are specially demurred to.
LINDSAY & Co., ship-brokers, of London, filed their petition
in the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana,
in which-alleging a written contract between themselves
and the New Orleans, &c., Railroad Company, the company
bound itself to pay them "freights," at the rate of 25s. per
ton, "in consideration of freightage to be furnished to Algiers, opposite New Orleans, for certain iron rails," &c.they averred that, in pursuance of the aforesaid contract,
they did furnish freightage for several thousand tons of such
rails, from Wales to Louisiana, and that the balance of the
freight upon the rails due them was $18,000, &c.

