Dec. 1866.]

IARNED V. BURLINGTON.
Opinion of the court.

court follows the decisions of the State courts in the settled
construction of their constitutions and statutes.
Similar suggestions, in this class of cases, have several
times been presented to this court, and the court has on
two occasions carefully examined the subject, and shown to
a demonstration that they cannot avail where the bonds, at
the time they were issued, were valid by the constitution
and laws of the State, as expounded by the courts of the
State. Discussion upon that topic is unnecessary, as the
point is controlled by those decisions.*
For these reasons, we are of the opinion that the Circuit
Court should have sustained the demurrer of the plaintiffs
to the answer of the defendants.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is, therefore, reversed,
with costs, and the case is remanded for further proceedings
in conformity to the opinion of this court.
JUDGMENT ACCORDINGLY.

LARNED V. BURLINGTON.
The doctrines of the preceding case affirmed.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Iowa.

Mr. Grant, for the plaintiff in error; 31r. -Ewing, contra.

Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the
court.
The present case, in many of its features, is like the preceding. It was an action of debt to recover the amount of
two bonds, each for one thousand dollars, with interest at
the rate of eight per cent. per annum. They were issued
* Gelpcke v. Dubuque, 1 Wallace, 202; Havemeyer v. Iowa Co., 3 Id. 294.

276

LAIrNED V. BURLINGTON.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of the court.

on the seventeenth day of June, 1852, under an ordinance
of the city to authorize a loan, to be invested in the stock of
the plank-road company mentioned in the declaration. Allegations of the declaration were substantially the same as
in the preceding case. Corporation defendants appeared
and demurred to the declaration and showed for cause, (1)
That the mayor and recorder of the city had no power to
issue the bonds; (2) That the section of the charter of the
city mentioned in the declaration conferred no authority on
the city to issue the bonds for the purpose stated; (3) That
the purpose for which the bonds were issued as alleged, was
not a public purpose.
Parties were heard, and the court sustained the demurrer,
and the plaintiff electing to stand upon the declaration, the
court rendered judgment for the defendants and the plaintiff removed the cause into this court by writ of error. Both
parties agree that the questions presented for decision in this
case are the same as in the preceding case and it must be decided in the same way. All of the reasons assigned for the decision in that case are equally applicable in this case, and we
have but few additional remarks to make in support of our
conclusion.

Cases involving the validity of the bonds given

by municipal corporations as material aid in the construction
of railroads, have frequently been before the court, and whenever they have come up they have uniformly received the attentive consideration of the court. Defects in the proceedings of the board of county commissioners were suggested in
the case of Knox County v. Aspinwall;* but the court held
that the board were the proper judges whether or not a majority of the votes in the county had been cast in favor of
the subscription to the stock, and that where the bonds on
their face imported a compliance with the law under which
they were issued, the purchaser and holder for value was
not bound to look further for evidence of a compliance with
the conditions in the grant of power.
Precisely the same rule was applied to cities in the case
* 21 Howard, 539.

Dec. 1866.]

CuMMniGs v. THE

STATE OF

MiSSoURI.

277

Syllabus.

of Bissel v. Jeffersonville,* where it was again held that it
was too late to make such objections as against innocent
holders, or even against the railroad, when it appeared that
the bonds purporting on their face to'have been executed by
authority, had been issued and delivered. Very stringent
application of the same rule was made in the case of lereer
Counlty v. Hfacket,t which is the last of the series to which
reference will be made,-all of these cases, proceeding upon
the ground that the construction of a railroad for travel and
transportation was a public improvement, and that it was
competent for the legislature to authorize municipal corporations to furnish material aid for such a work, and we have
no doubt that the views of the court were entirely correct.
Like the preceding, the present case has respect to a plankroad, but we repeat, that where such an improvement is authorized by the legislature and is connected with the municipality issuing the bonds, the case properly falls within the
same rule. It follows that the declaration was sufficient, and
that the demurrer should have been overruled.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is therefore reversed,
with costs, and the cause remanded for further proceedings,
in conformity with the opinion of this court.
JUDGMENT ACCORDINGLY.

CUMMINGS v. THE STATE

OF MISSOURI.

1. Under the form of creating a qualification or attaching a condition, the
States cannot in effect inflict a punishment'for a past act which was not
punishable at the time it was committed.
2. Deprivation or suspension of any civil rights for past conduct is punishment for such conduct.
3. A bill of attainder is a legislative act which inflicts punishment without
a judicial trial. If the punishment be less than death, the act is termed
* 24 Howard, 299.

t- 1 Wallace, 83.

