WITHEIISPOON

V.

DUNCAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

lUinited States. Full effect was given to the title. The error,
if any were committed, was in locating it upon the land,
and fixing its boundaries. In the performance of this function by that court, no treaty, act of Congress, or authority
exercised under the United States, was drawn in question.
We cannot, therefore, review the conclusions at which the
court arrived.* The section referred to in express terms
forbids it.
The decision having been correct upon the only question
before us for consideration, the judgment below is
A 'TIRMED.

WITHERSPOON V. DUNCAN.
1. The different States, as a general rule, have the right of determining the
manner of levying and collecting taxes on private property within their
limits; and can declare that a tract of land shall be chargeable with
taxes, no matter who is the owner, or in whose name it is assessed and
advertised ; and that an erroneous assessment does not vitiate the sale
for taxes.
2. Lands originally public cease to be public after they have been entered
at the land office, and a certificate of entry has been obtained.
3. Lands so entered are liable to taxation; and if the taxes remain unpaid,
they may be sold like other lands, even though no patent may as yet
have issued.
4. The right to tax attaches as well to donation entries as to cash entries;
the particular land in either case, when the entry is made and certificate
given, being segregated from the mass of public lands, and becoming
private property.
ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of Arkansas;
the case, as stated by the learned justice who gave the
opinion of the court, being thus:
The State of Arkansas, on her admission into the Union,
made a compact with the General Government not to tax
the public lands within the State, nor interfere with their
primary disposal by the United States, or with the regula* McDonough v. Millandon, 3 Howard, 707; Doe v. Esclava, 9 Id. 448.

Dec. 1866.]

WITHERSPOON V. DUNCAN.

Statement of the case.

tions adopted by Congress for securing the title in them to
purchasers. It was claimed that this compact had been
broken by the decision of the Supreme Court of Arkansas
in this case.
The facts on which the claim was based were these: On
the 23d day of May, 1828, a portion of the public domain,
within the limits of the Territory of Arkansas, was, by
treaty, ceded to the Cherokee Indians, west of the Mississippi River, and suitable provision made for the removal
of the settlers from it. As an indemnity for the loss of improvements and the trouble and expense of removing, each
settler who did remove was entitled, by an act of Congress,
to enter, at the proper land office in Arkansas, two quarter
sections of the public lands of the territory, the sale of which
was authorized by law.
The children of Timothy Harrell (one of the settlers on
these ceded lands) furnished the requisite proof to the register and receiver of the land office, at Little iRock, of the
settlement, removal, and subsequent death of their father,
and were, on the 22d day of May, 1830, allowed to enter the
lands in controversy. The proper certificate of this donation entry, as it is called, was transmitted, as is usual in land
entries, to the General Land Office at Washington; but, for
some unexplained reason, a patent was not issued for the
lands embraced in it until the 5th day of February, 1846.
By mistake, owing, doubtless, to the neglect of the land
officers at Little iRock to make the proper cancellation on
their books, and to the multiplication of land districts, these
same lands were entered at the land office at Washington
(within which district they were then included), on the 8th"
day of June, 1836, by G. W. Denton, who received the usual
certificate of purchase. This entry was cancelled by the
Commissioner of the General Land Office, on the issue of
the patent to the heirs of Harrell, and, in February, 1849,
the purchase-money refunded to Denton.
In 1842, these lands were listed for taxation, by the authorities of Arkansas, in the name of Denton, and sold (because
the taxes were unpaid) to Duncan and Flanigan, the defend-

212

WITHERSPOON V. DUNCAN.

[SUp. Ct.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

ants in error, who received a deed for them after the time
for redemption had expired, and, by means of a proceeding
peculiar to Arkansas, had their title confirmed by the decree of the proper court of record. Hardy, deraigning title
-through the heirs of Hlarrell, filed a bill in equity in the
Circuit Court of Clark County, where the lands were situated, to annul the tax title thus acquired, and to quiet his
own title. The Circuit Court, at the hearing of the case,
dismissed the bill, and on appeal the Supreme Court of the
State affirmed the decree.
This writ of error was brought to review that decision.
atldns,for the plaintff in
Mr. Car!sle, with a brief of MAr.
error:
We concede that when land has been sold by the United
States, entered and paid for by the purchaser, who receives
the usual certificate for the purchase-money, and in whose
favor the usual patent certificate issues, it becomes the property of the purchaser. Such is the doctrine of Carrollv. Safford.*
But that case was one of an ordinary cash entry, and the
usual certificates were issued to Carroll, the purchaser. The
sale was made and consummated, so far as it could be done
by the United States, and in due course of official routine,
the patent issued to Carroll, who never pretended that there
was any circumstance to vitiate his entry, or give to the officers of the United States charged with the supervision of
the Land Department and the issue of patents, any color of

authority to cancel it, or excuse for withholding the patent.
In order to make the case, now under consideration, analogous to that, not only must the patent have issued to Denton, in pursuance of his entry, but he should be himself the
party upon the record, contesting the validity of the tax,
upon his own land.
The counsel for defendant, in Carroll v. Safford, admitted
that if from accident or the exceptions which he had before
* 3 Howard, 441.

Dec. 1866.]

D ITHRRSPOON V. DuxcAN.
Argument for the plaintiff in error.

adverted to, the certificate of purchase should not be matured
into a patent, "the purchaser, at tax sale, could not acquire
a better title than the holder of the certificate." That is his
risk. But, he adds, '!in the case of the present complainant
it is not pretended that his titles were not perfected. On
the contrary, the record brought up here alleges and admits
that the patents for his lands were issued before the lands
were sold for taxes."
The Supreme Court of. the United States, in the case just
named, never supposed they were overturning the numerous
cases: decided or founded on the proposition that Congress,
having power to dispose of the public domain, and to enact
all laws and needful regulations respecting the sale thereof,
where it has, by its legislation, provided for the issue of
patents, they are necessary to complete the title; and, until
the patent issues, the fee remains in the United States, and
the legal title has not passed. If this be not so, with the
same propriety it could be contended that the verdict of a
jury is sufficient, without afny judgment of the court in pursuance of the finding; or that the existence of a judgment
could be proved by parol evidence, without an exemplification of the record.
In most of tax title cases, the simple question has been,
whether land, legally sold by an officer of the United States,
became subject, under the State laws, to assessment and taxation against the purchaser of it as the owner, before the
final emanation of the patent. In all of them the entries
have been made in the usual mode of purchase at private
sale, and it has not been pretended that there was any illegality or want of authority in the sales, or that the incipient
title had failed. On the contrary, the bills to set aside the
tax sales have been brought by the purchasers, asserting
themselves to be the owners of the land by virtue of the
patents which had issued upon their own entries. The
whole scope of the decisions is, that by such entry the land
" Stringer v. Young, 3 Peters, 320; Boardman v. Reed, 6.1b. 328; Bagnell v. Broderick, 13 Id. 436 ; Wilcox v. Jackson, Id. 498; and Stoddard v.
Chambers, 2 Howard, 284.

WITHERSPOON V. DUNCAN.

EsuP. Ct.

Argument for tho plaintiff in error.

was sold and appropriated according to law; and the purchaser being for all beneficial purposes the owner of the land,
it became subject to taxation as his property. Clearly, the
purchase at tax sale would fail, unless the particular title
should afterwards be consummated by patent. Carroll v.
Safford, is careful not to omit this reservation. The court
say: "It is true, if the land had been previously sold by the
United States, or reserved from sale, the certificate or patent
might be recalled by the United States, as having been issued through mistake."
Until the issue of the patent, the paramount title in all
cases remains in the government; and until then all State
legislation is subordinate to the primary right of soil and
disposition remaining in the Federal Government, and does
not profess to interfere with it,* and is contingent upon the
issue or withholding of the patent; in regard to which the
President, and the officers of the Land Department acting
under him, have a discretion.
Now the heirs of ilarrell, as we conceive, never had any
ascertained right to the land in controversy, until the final
decision of the Commissioner of the General Land Office in
1846, confirming their donation claim, and the issue of the
patent to them for the lands applied for. Until then the
whole subject remained under the control of the Land Department. If i'ejected, the entry of Denton would have held
the land, and he would have received the patent.
The opinion in Carroll v. Saffbrd proceeds upon the ground,
that there is no lawful authority in any officer of the government to vacate a patent certificate upon a cash entry, made
in accordance with law, and that it would be an abuse of
power to do so; that the certificate imports an actual present
sale of the land, and is as binding on the government as a
patent; and therefore the land becomes subject to be assessed
to the owner*of it, for State taxes. How is it possible for this
* Brock v. Smith, 14 Arkansas, 434, citing Pelham v. Wilson, 4 Id. 289;
Hughes v. Sloan, 3 English, 146; Pelham v. Floyd, 4 Ib. 530, and IOFarland v. Mathis, 5 Ib. 560.

Dec.1866.]

WITHERSPOON V.

DUNcAN.

Argument for the plaintiff in error.

reasoning to condemn the lands applied for by the heirs of
Harrell in 1830, in satisfaction of their claim to a donationwhen there was -no actual sale for a valuable consideration
paid to the United States, and they had received no final
certificate or evidence of purchase; when they had no right,
as against the government, to possess and enjoy the land;
when the President and his subordinates in the Land Department, had not ceased to have a lawful control over the
subject of the claim, but had a continuing power to disallow*
and reject it?
If the government of the United States had the right to
cancel the entry of Denton; if it had the right to confirm
the donation claim of the heirs of iarrell, and grant them a
patent for the land in 1846, all of which is unquestionedthen, and to that extent, the land in controversy, and upon
which the State tax was levied in 1842, was the property of
the United States. If the land officers of the United States
had a jurisdiction and supervising control over the subject
of this title, then the patent granted in 1846, under the seal
of the United States, must have the effect of investing the
patentees with a clear title, an unincumbered estate in the
land, or else the tax sale in 1842 was a fundamental wrongful interference on the part of the State with the primary
disposal of the land by the United States, and with the lawful regulations prescribed by her for securing title to the
rightful owner:
It will not answer to say, that the heirs of larrell bad the
best right to the land, because it ultimately prevailed. If
the General Government had the right to take the land away
fi'om Denton, and give it to the heirs of Harrell, it had such
a lawful power of disposal over it as could not be divested,
or in the least degree impaired, by the intermediate sale of
it for taxes. The government had the power to do effectually and completely what she professed to do, as an act of
justice so long delayed. The patent would be a fruitless
grant, if it can be effectually defeated by a State tax sale,
whose only possible merit may be, that it was made in good
faith, and without any intention to violate the compact.

216

WITHERSPOON

v. DUNCAN.

[Sup. Ck

Argument for the defendant in error.

MWr. Beverdy Johnson, contra:
The argument is, that at the time the land was assessed,
the fee was in the United States, and the land not therefore
subject to taxation. The position is too technical. What
title did Harrell's heirs acquire under the certificate of entry
of 1830? How is a party regarded who holds this certificate
of entry? There are exceptions to the principle, but the
.general principle itself is that, as soon as the public land
is purchased and paid for, it becomes the property of the
purchaser, and may be sold and transferred by him (as is
constantly the case), before being patented. It is the sale,
not the patent, which is important. In Carroll v. Saft'rd,
the court, in speaking of the title under a certificate, says:
"When the land was purchased and paid for, it was no
longer the property of the United States, but of the purchaser. He held for it a certificate, which could no more be
cancelled than a patent. It is true, if the land had been
previously sold by the United States, or reserved from sale,
the certificate or patent might be recalled by the United
States, as having been issued through mistake. In this
respect, there is no difference between the certificate-holder
and the patentee."
In Goodlett v. Smithson,* it was decided, that "the patent
is considered as evidence of title, by which it is shown
that the prerequisites of sale have been complied with; by
the act of entry and payment, the purchaser acquires a legal
title, that may be aliened, descend or divested, in the same
manner as any other legal title. So, previous to the issue
of a patent, the estate of one in lands purchased of the
United States, and for which he has received a certificate of
payment, may be levied on and sold under execution, issued
on a judgment at law, and ejectment can be naintained on
such certificate."
With such rights under a certificate of entry, it would be
strange, if the lands for which this certificate was given,
should not be subject to taxation! If an individual could
* 5 Porter's Alabama, 245.

Dec. 1866.]

WrITHERSPOON V.

DUNCAN.

Opinion of the court.

purchase lands of the United States, settle, improve, and
cultivate them, on certificates of purchase, then, in case,
from the neglect and delay of the proper department, the
patents are not issued for several years, the lands would be
exempt from taxation, while lands adjoining were compelled
to pay taxes, though their occupant was deriving no greater
advantage from the possession and cultivation. A period of
sixteen years elapses, during which time a party might have
improved and cultivated the land, derived a subsistence from
it, accumulated property on it, and wellnigh worn out the
land, and yet, he must not pay taxes! Such a thing is possible, and easily to be done. And if this be the law, there is
great consideration held out to induce persons not to get
patents issued at all.
Mr. Justice DAVIS, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
It is not the province of this court to interfere with the
policy of the revenue laws of the States, nor with the interpretation given to them by their courts. Arkansas has the
right to determine the manner of levying and collecting

taxes, and can declare that the particular tract.of land shall
be chargeable with the taxes, no matter who is the owner,
or in whose name it is assessed and advertised, and that an
erroneous assessment does not vitiate a sale for taxes.
Of course, the property must, under the compact, be taxable; but if it is, the mode of enforcing payment of taxes
is wholly within legislative control. If, therefore, the lands
in dispute could be taxed, the decision of the Supreme Court
of the State is conclusive that the assessment, sale, and confirmation were regular, and divested the title derived through
the heirs of iarrell. The taxability of the lands is, then,
the only question which we are authorized to consider and
determine.
The plaintiffs in error insist that the State had no power
to impose atax oih them until the donation entry was actually
confirmed and the patent had emanated. It is conceded
that the power had been exercised, from an early period in

WITHERSPOON v. DUNCAN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the history of the State, to levy and collect a tax upon lands
as soon as entered, and not to wait for the emanation of the
patent,-a practice that has obtained in nearly all the Western States, whose admission was under a compact similar to
that with Arkansas.
Arkansas covenanted to abstain from taxation of the public
lands within her limits, and to refrain from legislation that
should impede the Federal Government in disposing of

them, or interfere with the regulations of Congress for the
security of titles. It is clear that the government has not
been hindered in selling them, nor Congress obstructed in
securing titles; but it is claimed the contract has been violated, because these lands, when taxed, were owned by the
United States. In no just sense can lands be said to be
public lands after theyr have been entered at the land office
and a certificate of entry obtained. If public lands before
the entry, after it they are private property. If subject to
sale, the government has no power to revoke the entry and
withhold the patent. A second sale, if the first was authorized by law, confers no right on the buyer, and is a void act.
According to the well-known mode of proceeding at the
land offices (established for the mutual convenience of buyer
and seller), if the party is entitled by law to enter the land,
the receiver gives him a certificate of entry reciting the
facts, by means of which, in due time, he receives a patent.
The contract of purchase is complete when the certificate of
entry is executed and delivered, and thereafter the land ceases
to be a part of the public domain. The government agrees
to make proper conveyance as soon as it can, and in the
meantime holds the naked legal fee in trust for the purchaser,
who has the equitable title. As the patent emanates directly
from the President, it necessarily happens that years elapse,
before, in the regular course of business in the General Land
Office, it can issue; and if the right to tax was in abeyance
during this time it would work a great hardship to the State;
for the purchaser, as soon as he gets his certificate of entry,
is protected in his proprietary interest, can take possession,
and make valuable and lasting improvements, which it

Dec. 1866.]

WITHERSPOON

v.

DUNCAN.

Opinion of the court.

would be difficult to separate from the freehold for the purpose of taxation. If it was the purpose of the acts of CongTess, by which the new States were admitted into the Union,
to prohibit taxation until the patent was granted, the national
authority would never have suffered, without questioning it,
the universal exercise of the power to tax on the basis of the
original entry.
This question was fully considered by this court in Carroll
v. Safford,* and the views we have presented only reaffirm
the doctrines of that case.
But it is insisted that there is a difibrence between a cash
and a donation entry-that the one may be complete when
the money is paid, but the other is not perfected until it is
confirmed by the General Land Office and the patent issued.
That Congress has the entire control of the public lands,
can dispose of them for money, or donate them to individuals or classes of persons, cannot be questioned. If the law
on the subject is complied with, and the entry conforms to
it, it is difficult to see why the right to tax does not attach
as well to the donation as to the cash entry. In either case
when the entry is made and certificate given the particular
land is segregated from the mass of public lands and becomes private property. In the one case the entry is complete when the money is paid; in the other when the required proofs are furnished. In neither can the patent be
withheld if the original entry was lawful.
The power to tax exists as soon as the ownership is
changed, and this is effected when the entry is made on the
terms and in the modes allowed by law. If this were not
so, those who, through the bounty of Congress, get a title
to the soil, without money, would enjoy higher privileges and
be placed on a better footing than the great body of persons
who, by the invitation of the government, purchase lands
with money. Such a discrimination could never have been
contemplated by Congress.
These principles are well illustrated in the case at bar.
* 3 Howard, 450.

RUTHERFORD V. GEDDES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

The heirs of Harrell, by means of the Cherokee treaty, had
a claim to two quarter sections of land in Arkansas. If they
furnished proof to the register and receiver of the proper
land office of the settlement and removal of their father, and
it was accepted and the claim allowed, then they had an equal
right to purchase the lands in question with this claim as
with money. The claim was allowed, the selections made,
and a certificate of entry given, and it was their duty to see
that the taxes were paid. It is true, that the entry might be
set aside at Washington; but this condition attaches to all
entries of the public lands.
They took upon themselves the risk of confirmation, and
perilled their title when they suffered the lands to be sold
for non-payment of taxes. It does not appeal from the
record why the patent was so long delayed; but the claim
was finally approved on the original proofs, and the patent,
when issued, related back to the original entry. The lands
were, therefore, under the laws of the State, properly chargeable with taxes from the date of the first entry, in 1830.

The judgment of the Supreme Court of Arkansas is
AFFIRMED.

IRUTXERFORD

v.

GEDDES.

1. Depositions cannot be used on the trial of a suit in admiralty, which were
taken in another suit concerning the same subject-matter, where the
party against whom they are offered was not a party to the suit in
which they were taken, nor privy to any such party, and had no right
to cross-examine the witnesses.
2. Nor can depositions be read in admiralty any more than at common law,
without some sufficient reason being shown why the witness was not
produced at the hearing.
APPEAL from a decree in admiralty rendered by the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana.
The appellant, Rutherford, was, in 1850, the owner of the
steam propeller Stanton, and had put her in charge of the

