Dec. 1866.]

THOMPSON V. BOWIE.
Statement of the case.

proceedings remanded, with directions to enter a judgment
affirming the decision of the board of supervisors.
JUDGMENT ACCORDINGLY.

Mr. Justice DAVIS took no part in the decision of this
case.

THOMPSON V. BowIE.
On an issue as to whether certain promissory notes, dated on a particular
day, were given for money lost at play and therefore void, it is not
allowable to prove that the party giving them was intoxicated on the
day of the date of the notes in suit, and that when intoxicated he had
a propensity to game.

THOMPsON sued Bowie, in the Supreme Court for the
District of Columbia, on three promissory notes for $1000,
all dated on the 1st January, 1857, and all drawn payable to
and indorsed by one Steer.
The defence was, that the notes were given for a gaming
consideration, and were, therefore, void even in the hands
of a bonafide h older, under the statute of 9th Anne, ch. 14,
ยง 1, in force in the district;* which statute makes such notes
"utterly void, frustrate, and of none effect, to all intents and
purposes whatsoever."
The defendant did not offer any direct evidence tending
to establish the defence; but resorted to and relied on proof
of a circumstantial sort, or such as he so regarded. It consisted of the following facts, tending to prove which the
court below allowed evidence to be given.
1st. That Steer, the payee of the notes, was the keeper
of a gambling-house, in Washington City, at the date of the
notes.
2d. That, at the time of the making of the notes, Steer
* See Kilty's Report of Statutes, p. 248.

THOMPSON V. BOWIE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

was not engaged in any other business than gambling, nor
was he the owner of any property.
3d. That another note of the defendant, of the same date
(January 1st, 1857), as those sued on, of the same amount
($1000), as those sued on, was given, payable to the order
of one Campbell, who was not only a frequenter of the gaming-house of Steer, but also in his employment as a dealer
of faro.
4th. That the body of all four of said notes was in the
handwriting of one J. R. James, who was a professional
gambler, and a frequenter, among other such places, of the
gambling-house of the said Steer.
5th. That on the night of the 31st of December, 1856
(INew-Year's eve), the defendant, being at a social entertainment, became greatly intoxicated-so much so that he was
unfit to transact any business; and that he was in that condition when with the witnesses he left the place of the entertainment, between one and two o'clock in the morning of
the 1st of January, 1857, and was no more seen by them
that day.
. 6th. That whenever the defendant was under the influence or excitement of wine or spirits, he had a propensity
to gamble; and was in the habit of going into gamblinghouses, faro banks, &c., and there gambling, but not at other
time.s; that, in the knowledge of the witness, he was always
in this condition when he frequented such places; that the
witness was a great deal with the ,defendant during the
sessions of Congress; that he was in the witness's room
almost every night, and frequently, when in liquor, would
leave the witness to go with his friends to gambling-houses,
and request the witness to go with him.
7th. That, at the date of the notes, the defendant was
wealthy.
On this testimony, and without the plaintiff endeavoring
to rebut this case, or to show in what manner he obtained
possession of the notes, the case was given to the jury, who
rendered a verdict in favor of the defendant.
On error here, one question among others, and the chief

Dec. 1866.]

Tt1oxPSON V. BOWIE.
Argument against admission.

question, was as to the admissibility of the evidence tending
to show, that when the defendant was under the excitement
of ardent spirits he had a propensity to game; was in the
habit of going into gaming-houses, &c., and of there gaming, but not at other timea; and that, in the knowledge of
the witness, he was always in this condition when he frequented such places.
Mlessrs. Brent and Meriek, for the holder of the notes, plainiff
in error:
In addition to numerous errors of the court, there was
palpable error in its admitting the evidence to show that
when the defendant was under the excitement of ardent
spirits he was in the habit of going to gaming-houses, and,
so far as the witness knew, was always in this condition
when he went there. The testimony simply tended to prove
a propensity; a propensity t9 game. Now, such a propensity,
even if admitted, did not tend to prove that the notes sued
on were given for a gaming debt. If A. has his money
stolen, assuredly he could not recover it from B. by proving
that B. had a propensity to steal.' Jackson v. Smith,* in the
Supreme Court of New York is in point. There, a man
named Norris was in the habit of lending money at usurious
rates of interest; and the court considered it "altogether
probable" that a loan in question "was a loan of that description." They held, however, that "the fact of Norris's
general character or habit as a usurer" was not "a legal
foundation" for a verdict which found a particular transaction, not otherwise proved so to be, usurious.
Messrs. TV. S. Cox and S. L. Phillips, contra:
Three notes of a wealthy gentleman, all of the same date,
in the same handwriting, for a like amount, and of a regular
series of thirty, sixty, and ninety days, given at one time
and in the same transaction, are found payable to a professional gambler at a time when he is a keeper of a public
*

VOL. IV.

7 Cowen, 719.
80

TOMPSON V. ]OWIE.

[Sup. Cr.

Argument for admission.

gaming-house, and has no other ostensible business, and a
man of no property with which he might engage in lawful
commerce. The body of each of these notes was in the.
handwriting of one J. R.. James, a professional gambler and
frequenter of the gaming-house. of the said payee; and a
fourth of the same series and like handwriting as the others,
of the same date, and for the same amount, is found payable
to the order of one Campbell, who was not only a frequenter
of the gaming-house of the said Steer, but in his employment as a dealer of faro. We ask, is it not a fair inference
from these facts that these notes had their origin in the
gaming-house of the payee, and in the ordinary business
which was carried on there? But these facts do not stand
alone. Early in the morning of the very day the notes were
given-ITew-Year's day, a day of festivity, and with many
of excess-the defendant was in a grossly intoxicated state,
and was no more seen by his friends that day; and we show
that when intoxicated he exhibited an invariable habit of
frequenting gaming-houses, a thing which he did at no other
time.
The case presents, therefore, many circumstances, all interlacing and depending upon each other, and all pointing
towards the same result; all reconcilable with the hypothesis

of the defence, and improbable with any other. And we
submit that each and every item of the evidence was admissible, including the one so particularly objected to.
This court has lately decided, in the two important cases
of CGtquot's Champagne and Fennerstein's Champagne,* the
same principle of establishing one fact by another, although
occurring as between third parties. In those cases, it is
submitted no such necessary connection appears as is to be
found in this.
The main question, however, now more particularly raised
is this: Does evidence of the invariable habit or propensity
of the defendant to game when intoxicated, and of the fact
of intoxication at a certain time, tend, in connection with
* 3 Wallace, 114; and Id. 145.

Dec. 1866.]

THOMPSON V. ]3owIE.
Argument for admission.

the other facts of this case, to prove a transaction of that
date to have been the result of gaming ? We submit that it
does.
The foundation for the admission of all presumptive evidence is the known relation between like causes producing
like effects; and wherever it is known that a certain cause
usually produces the same effect, the rules of evidence admit
either to prove the other.
It has been often decided by te courts in civil as well as
criminal cases, that wherever a particular tfait of character
is involved, or is illustrative of'the matter disputed, there
the character of the party in that particular trait may be
given in evidence.* Thus, honesty in cases of felony, peaceable disposition, or quarrelsomeness when drunk, in those
of riot, &C., chastity in those of seduction and criminal conversation, &c., &c. By the admission of such testimony, the
courts recognize the principle contended for,-that a man
known to act usually in a certain manner, under certain circumstances, will be presumed to act in the same manner
when shown to be subjected to the same circumstances.
We have called this impulsion to gaming a "propensity,"
but it is hardly doing justice to our case thus to style it.
The true question is this, rather; and in presenting it we
trust that in this age of physioldgical science we shall not be
thought to be dealing with the question in a manner too abstruse and not practical.
This, we say, is the true question: "Is the fact that an
individual, who, when influenced by a certain and sufficient
cause affecting his nervous organism to such an extent as to
override or paralyze the judgment and will, has-in every
instance where known to be so influenced-been found to
act in a certain manner, admissible as evidence to show that
on another occasion, when under the same exciting cause,
he probably acted in the same manner?"
We submit that it is.
This law of universal causation is that which governs all
* McNabb v. Lockhart, 18 Georgia, 495; 1 Greenleaf on Evidence,

664.

THOMPSON V. BowIE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for admission.

material organism, and is the great law upon which all
human life is built. It exists with such a uniformity that
all men accept it as the surest method of & priori judgment,
and courts of justice adopting its principle as a means of
investigating truth, as soon as they find that an isolated fact
is the result of a certain cause, admit the like circumstances
as proof of similar effects. NTow, what is the cause of the
peculiar effect attempted to be proved in this case? What
influence did the cause in this case, to wit, the taking of
ardent spirits, have on the defendant, and how is this influence produced?
Man is essentially a corporeal or material being. His
mind is either the result of material organization, consisting
of nervous centres, or.it is so intimately connected with
them as to be incapable of exhibiting life or power when
disconnected from them. And it is the universal experience
of all physiologists that this connection is so intimate as to
show that what affects the nerves immediately affects the
phenomena of the mind.
Now, it is known in science, or more properly in materia
medica, that there are certain things which directly affect
these nervous centres of the body; chief among these are
strychnia, and alcohol, and the opiates. These taken into
the body at once produce visible and marked effects on the
mind. The question then arises, are these effects uniform
in their character? The great law of like causes producing
like effects ainswers this question that they must be. When
not altered by countervailing or repellent circumstances, the
action of strychnia, of opiuni, or of alcohol on the corporeal
frame, will be as unalterable and uniform in their character
as the revolutions of the planets or the law of gravitation.
And such is the general experience of human nature. It is
common knowledge, that some men are invariably excited
to laughter and hilarity when intoxicated, others to quarrelling, others with the same regularity to morose conduct;
some to one particular line of conduct, and others to some
other.
How this effect of alcohol, strychnia, or the opiates is pro.

Dec. 1866.]

TnoIpsoxr e BowiE.
Argument for admission.

duced is not known as a matter for certain.

The investiga-

tions of scientific men have, however, discovered that when
these substances are taken there is either, on the one hand,
a paralysis partial or total of the nerves, or an undue stimulation into action, and which is so great that the influence
of the cerebrrn, where the willing power of man is located,
is not able to control this excited condition of the nervous
system. This influence is so great that in cases of alcoholic
stimulation, or opiate paralysis, the judgment as well as the
other powers are affected. When in this. situation, the individual acts not as one in full possession of his will, but
from irresistible inpulse which he cannot control, and which
physiologists have termed the reflex action of the nervous
centres.
The manner in which these various substances affect the
nerves is, however, not important to the inquiry, it is only
important to show that taking alcohol into the system is
matter acting on matter, and to such an extent as, either
from an enfeebled or paralyzed will, to be no longer under
its restraint or control. In other words, when an individual
is deprived of his will and is at the same time acted upon
by extraneous circumstances, he becomes no more than any
other piece of matter, and the law of causation will apply

with full force.
It is obvious, then, and in this view of the case, that such
cases as Tackson v. Snith, the authorities cited on the other
side, and all similar cases, as to the admission of the general
character of a person, when it is not put in issue by the
nature of the action, do not apply to this case.
In those cases it was not matter acting on matter, alcohol
upon the nervous centres of the brain, but certain ideas of
self-interest, morality, fear, or what not, acting on the will
of the individual; and the courts say that when the question
is not involved by the very nature of the action, the evidence
is too uncertain to be relied upon, because it is impossible
to tell with any certainty what weie the causes or the mofives influencing the will, and how far the will, it being an
intellectual capacity, is acted upon by them.

TiiomPsoN v. ]BowiE.

[Sup. Ci.

Opinion of the court.

The rule admitting presumptive evidence does not require
that this connection between the two facts should be invariable and absolutely certain, but only that it should exist
in a majority of cases, or so often as to warrant the court
in saying that some reasonable inference might be drawn
from it.
And for this reason it need not be shown that the defendant always gamed when intoxicated, for then the proof of
intoxication would be proof positive of the gaming, but the
fact that he usually gamed when intoxicated, and at no other
time, is admissible to show the probability of the fact.
If the habit, or the influence of the ardent spirits on the
defendant, was not established to the satisfhction of the jury,
then it went for nothing. The court here must decide upon
the offer, and if the offer was right in theory, it was for the
jury alone to say if this condition of intoxication, on the
occasion in question, or this influence of alcohol was established to their satisfaction.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
Thompson brought suit in the court below to recover on
three promissory notes, purporting to be given on the first
day of January, 1857, by Bowie to Steer, and indorsed to
him. Bowie sought to avoid their payment on the ground
that they were founded on a gaming consideration, and
therefore void, even in the hands of an indorsee, without
notice, because the statute of 9th Anne, avoiding gambling
contracts, was in force in the District of Columbia, where
they were executed. There was no direct evidence offered
on the trial to impeach the consideration of the notes; but
what is called circumstantial evidence, in contradistinction
to direct evidence, was relied on to prove the defence. A
brother of the defendant was called by him, and allowed to
testify; that whenever his brother was under the influence
of liquor, he had a propensity to gamble, and it is contended,
as he was drunk on the morning the notes were given, and
as they were in the handwriting of a professional gambler,
and payable to the keeper of a gaming-house, the inference

Dec. 1866.]

TnoMpsox v. BowIE.
Opinion of the court.

is fair and reasonable, that they were given for money won
at play.
Did the court err in admitting this evidence?
If it did err in this matter, then the judgment must be
reversed, for, undoubtedly, the jury, in the formation of their
verdict, must have been greatly influenced by testimony that
the general character or habit of Bowie was to gamble when
intoxicated.
All evidence must have relevancy to the question in issue,
and tend to prove it. If not a link in the chain of proof, it
is not properly receivable. Could the habit of Bowie to
gamble, when drunk, legally tend to prove that he did gamble on the day the notes were executed? The general character and habits of Bowie, were not fit subjects of inquiry
in this suit for any purpose. The rules of law do not require
the plaintiff to be prepared with proofs to meet such evidence. That Bowie gambled at other times, when in liquor,
was surely no legal proof that because he was in liquor on
the 1st day of January, 1857, he gambled with Steer. It is
very rare that in civil suits the character of the party is admissible in evidence, and it is never permitted, unless the
nature of the action involves or directly affects the general
character of the party.* Bowie was not charged with fraud,
or with any action involving moral turpitude. He was simply endeavoring to show that his own negotiable paper was
given for money lost at play; and to allow him, as tending
to prove this, to give in evidence his habit to gamble when
drunk, would overturn all the rules established for the investigation of truth. -When trying a prisoner on an indictment, for a particular crime, proof that he has a general
disposition to commit the crime is never permitted.t If a
man charged with the larceny of a horse was proved-in
connection with other evidence tending to show his guiltto be drunk on the day the horse was stolen, would any
court allow the general evidence to go to the jury that,
* 1 Greenleaf's Ev.,

54.
j 1 Phillips on Evidence, p. 143; The State v. Field, 14 Mfaine, 249.

T.HoMPSON v. BowIE.

[Sup. or.

Opinion of Grier, J., dissenting.

when drunk, he always stole a horse? And yet, the general
rules.of evidence are the same in civil as in criminal cases.
"There is no difference," says Abbott, Justice,* "as to the
rules of evidence between criminal and civil cases; what
may be received in the one may be received in the other,
and what is rejected in the one ought to be rejected in the
other."
The uniform habit of a party to loan money at usurious
interest, was not considered by the Supreme Court of New
York a'legal foundation for a verdict establishing usury,
although one usurious loan had been proved between the
parties to the suit, and it was altogether probable, that the
case under review was of that description.t The uniform
habit of 3owie, when drunk, to gamble is not a legal foundation for this verdict, although it is highly probable that the
notes in controversy were executed by him for a gaming
consideration.
There are other assignments of error, which it is unnecessary to notice, as the decision of this question disposes of the
case.
The judgment of the court below is reversed, and mandate ordered, with instructions to award a
VENIRE DE N Vo.

Mr. Justice GRIDR dissenting:
I cannot give my assent to the reversal of this judgment
for the reason alleged in the opinion of the court, nor for
any other.
The defence to the payment of these notes was that they
were obtained by fraud from the defendant when he was
drunk, and were without consideration and void.
Now, fraud will not be presumed but must be proved as

other facts, either by direct proof or by circumstantial evidence which will convince the mind of a jury that a fraud
* Rex v. Watson, 2 Starkie, 155; Regina v. Murphy, 8 Carrington and
Payne, 806.
I Jackson ex dem Norris v. Smith, 7 Cowen, 719.

Dec. 1806.]

THoMPsoN v. BowIu.
Opinion of Grier, J., dissenting.

was committed.

It is seldom that a fraud or conspiracy to

cheat can be proved in any other way than by circumstantial
evidence, as. knaves have usually sufficient cunning to have
no witnesses present who can testify directly to their fraudulent contrivances. Circumstantial evidence is often as convincing to the mind as direct testimony, and often more so.
A number of concurrent facts, like rays of the sun, all converging to the same centre, may throw not only a clear light
but a burning conviction; a conviction of truth more infallible than the testimony even of two witnesses directly to a
fact. A cord of sufficient strength to suspend a man may
be formed of threads, not one of which, alone, would support
the weight of a pound or even of an ounce.
When it becomes necessary for the purpose of justice to
have resort to circumstantial evidence, it is the usual course
of counsel to object to each thread because it will not support the whole weight of the case. Thus, if the defence be
that a note was obtained by a combination of a band of
gamblers and swindlers from a drunken man, as but one
fact or circumstance can be proved at a time, the learned
counsel will object to the offer to prove that the payee kept
a gambling-house, and will gravely quote the decision of
some learned judge, that a plea of usury cannot be substantiated by proof that the plaintiff had the character of being
a usurer; so also that he executed four other notes at the
same time to other notorious gamblers, &c. No one of these
facts standing by itself would be received as evidence in defence. But the court received evidence of the following
facts:
The defendant gave evidence, by several witnesses, tending to prove that Steer kept a gambling-house in Washington City at the time of the date of the said notes, and was
not engaged in any other business to the knowledge of the
witnesses, and had no property to their knowledge, and that
the defendant was at a social entertainment on the night of
the 31,t of December, 1856, and became grossly intoxicated,
so tha,, in the opinion of said witnesses, he was unfit to
transact business, and that he remained in such condition

TnoMPsoN v. BowIE.

[sup. Ct.

Opinion of Grier, J., dissenting.

when he left the place of said entertainment with the other
guests who were there, and that he left in such condition
between one and two o'clock in the morning of the 1st of
January, 1857, and also that the body of said notes was
written in the handwriting of J. R. James, who not only
frequented the gaming-house of the said Steer, but other
gaming-houses; and then gave evidence to prove that said
James was a gambler by profession. And the defendant
then offered to prove that a note dated on the 1st January,
1857, for $1000, was given by the defendant, payable to
Campbell, and indorsed by him, to one Johnson, and that
Campbell was a frequenter of the said gamiing-house, and
assisted in dealing for the said Steer. Lnd the plaintiff objected to the said note to Campbell being admitted in evidence, but the court overruled the objection and admitted
the said note to be read in evidence. After the reception
of this testimony, of which this court has found no fault, the
defendant proposed to add another fact, to wit: "that when
the defendant was under the influence of liquor he had a
propensity to gamble."
This admission of evidence of a fact, of little consequence
in the decision of the case, has been seized upon here and
treated as the only fact in the case, and not a circumstance,
which, unless connected with others, of itself formed no
defence. Now if it was wholly irrelevant, it did no harm to
either party. If it was a fact, which might influence the
mind of a jury, why should it be withheld from them? In
a charge of fraud courts have said, what is evidence to affect
the mind of a jury is often difficult to decide or distinguish.
But any fact, though in itself of slight importance, will not
be withheld. In such cases it is not for the court to treat
the jury as persons without discernment, where the issue is
one purely of fact. Now there is not a fact stated as having
been proved, taken by itself, as per se a defence to the action,
which counsel might not with equal justice have treated as
absurd or ridiculous. But if the court below had selected
this fact from all the others as peculiarly liable to objection,
their judgment might have been liable to the same charge.

