270

MITCHELL V. BURLINGTON.

[Sup.

at.

Syllabus.

no eviction or disturbance of possession by an attempt to
foreclose the old mortgage against the lands covered by it.
She has been in the undisturbed enjoyment of the rents and
profits for aught that appears down to the present time.
Even as respects Irs. Bass, and independently of the foregoing considerations, in analogy to the rule applicable to
the sale of real estate, or any interest therein, which obliges
the purchaser to pay the purchase-money according to his
contract, notwithstanding the failure of title, unless evicted
or the possession disturbed by paramount title, the payment
of the demand in the present case, we think, should be enforced. The principle is as applicable to the sale of personal chattels as to that of real property.
Upon the whole, without pursuing the case further, our
conclusion is, that the defendant below has failed to establish
the want of title in the complainant to the mortgage which
he is seeking to foreclose and the notes accompanying the
same, or a title in the Bank of Mississippi, by force of which
she ma be subjected to a second payment of the same indebtedness. She does not deny but that she owes the debt,
nor does she seek to avoid the payment. The question
which is important to her and which she desires to have determined is as to the proper party to receive the payment.
We think the complainant is that party.
The decree of the court below reversed and the cause remitted, with directions to that court to enter a decree for the
complainant in conformity with this opinion.
DECREE ACCORDINGLY.

MITOHELL V. BURLINGTON.
1. A provision in the charter of a city corporation authorizing it to borrow
money for any public purpose, whenever, in the opinion of the City
Council, it shall be expedient to exercise it, is a valid power. Rogers v.
Burlington (3 Wallace, 654) affirmed.

2. Money borrowed by such a corporation to construct a plank-road, if the

Dec. 1866.]

MITCHELL V.

BURLINGTON.

271 -

Opinion of the court.
road leads from, extends to, or passes through the limits of the corporation, is borrowed for a public purpose within the meaning of the provision.
3. .Uaremeyer v. Iowa County (3 Wallace, 294), and Gelpeke v. City of Dubuque (1 Wallace, 175), affirmed, and the doctrine reasserted, that if municipal bonds, when made, were valid by the constitution and laws of a
state as then expounded, by the highest judicial authority whose duty it
was to interpret them, no subsequent judicial exposition of an opposite
kind, will make them invalid.
ERIORI to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Iowa.

M7Lr. Grant,for the plaintiff in error; Mr. Ewing, contra.
Mr. Justice CLIFFOI.D delivered the opinion of the
court.
Plaintiffs sued the corporation defendants, in a plea of
debt, declaring on five bonds of one thousand dollars each,
issued by the city on the 23d day of March, 1850, and made
payable ten years after date, to E. W. Clark, Brother & Co.,
or bearer, with interest on the same at ten per cent. per
annum. The bonds were signed by the mayor and recorder
of the city, and purport to have been issued in pursuance
of an ordinance of the city, "to provide for procuring and
investing the loan of ten thousand dollars to the city, to be
invested in the stock of the Burlington and -lount Pleasant
Plank-road Company, and for other purposes." Declaration
alleged that the plaintiffs became the lawful owners and
holders of the bonds before they were due, and that the
defendants were liable to pay to them the amount of the
bonds.
Defendants appeared and pleaded, among other defences,
as set up in the answer, that the plank-road company mentioned in the declaration was a private corporation; that the
bonds were executed for the purpose of procuring money to
invest in the stock of that company, and that the obligees
of the bonds purchased the same, and loaned the money,
well knowing that the proceeds of the bonds were to be
used for that purpose. They also set up the defence that

1

272

MITCHELL V. BURLINGTON.

ESup. Or.

Opinion of the court.

the officers of the city had no authority to issue the bonds,
and that the bonds, as against the defendants, were void.
Parties defendant, under the rules of practice which prevail in the court below, may set forth in the answer as many
causes of defence as they may have; but when the facts
stated in the answer, or any division of the same, are not
sufficient to constitute a defence, the plaintiff may demur.*
Neither party is allowed to demur generally, but the requirement in all cases is that the demurrer must distinctly
specify, as the grounds of objection, the matters of error intended to be argued as defects in the pleading, and no oinder in demurrer is required.t
Pursuant to those rules of pleading, the plaintiffs demurred to the answer of the defendants, and assigxied,
among others, the following causes of demurrer:
1. That the answer did not allege that ihe plaintffs knew
for what purpose the bonds were to be issued, or to what
use the proceeds of the same were to be applied.
2. That the answer is defective, because the allegation
that the plank-road company was a private corporation, contradicts the law of the State, of which the court will take
judicial notice.
3. That the answer is insufficient, because the defendants,
in their corporate capacity, had a right to borrow money,
upon a proper vote of their citizens, for any public purpose,
and that the construction of the plank-road mentioned in

the pleadings was a public purpose within the meaning of
their charter; and that, inasmuch as the money was not
borrowed for any illegal purpose, the defence set up was no

bar to the action.
Such being substantially the state of the pleadings, the
court overruled the demurrer of the plaintiffs, and decided
that the answer of the defendants disclosed a good defence
to the action; and the plaintiffs electing to stand on that
demurrer, judgment was rendered for the defendants, and
the plaintiffs sued out this writ of error.
* Revised Code of Iowa, 520, 527.

t Id. 618.

Dec. 1866.]

c1'MITCHELL

V. BURLINGTON.

Opinion of the court.

1. The pleadings raise the question as to the validity of
the bonds mentioned in the declaration, and the effect of
the decision in the court below was that they were issued
without authority. Whether valid or invalid, it is certain
that they were issued under the provision in the charter of
the city which authorized the corporation defendants to borrow money for any public purpose, whenever, in the opinion
of the City Council, it should be deemed expedient to exercise that power. Certain important conditions, however,
are annexed to the exercise of the power, as appears by the
provision itself, but it is unnecessary to examine those conditions, as it is conceded by the defendants that there is no
formal objection to the exercise of the authority. All the
conditions annexed to the exercise of the power, as expressed in the provision, having been fulfilled, the only
questions which, under any circumstances, could arise in
the case, are whether the provision is a valid one, and if so,
whether the power conferred was exercised for a purpose
within the meaning of the provision? Questions of a similar character have been repeatedly before the court, and
they have uniformly been decided in the same way. Present defendants presented the same questions to this court
at the last term, and the court held that the power to borrow
money for any public purpose, within the meaning of the
provision, was conferred by the charter in express terms,
and that there was nothing in the constitution of the State
which limited the authority so conferred, or rendered it invalid. Satisfied with that conclusion, it is not deemed necessary to assign new reasons in its support, or to repeat
those adduced in our former opinion.
Proceeds of the bonds in that case had been appropriated
in the construction of a railway, and the court held that railways were so far to be considered as in the nature of improved highways, and as indispensable to the public interest
and the successful pursuit even of local business, that a State
legislature might authorize the towns and counties of a State
through which a railway passes to borrow money, issue their
bonds, subscribe for the stock of the company, or purchase
VOL. IV.

18

MITCHELL V.

BURLINGTON.

[Sup. cr.

Opinion of the court.

the same, with a view of aiding those engaged in constructing or completing such a public improvement, and that a
legislative act conferring such authority was not in contravention of any implied limitation of the power of the legislature.* Substantially the same decision, as to the power
of the legislature, was made in the ease of Gclpcke v. The
City of Dubuque,t and it is proper to remark that the opinion
of the court in that case was chiefly founded upon a provision in the charter of that city, expressed in the same
words as the provision under consideration in this case.
Same question was presented to this court, on a second occasion, at the last term, and the court unanimously held that,
unless restrained by the organic law, the legislature of a
State had the right to authorize a municipal corporation to
take stock in a railroad or other work of internal improvement, to borrow money to pay for it, and to levy a tax to
repay the loan.t
2. Applying these decisions to the present case, it is clear
that nothing remains open for discussion except the question,
whether the bonds issued to aid in constructing a plank-road
fall within the same principle as those issued granting aid
to a railway? Plank-roads are as much highways as railroads, and if authorized to be constructed by the legislature,
they are public improvements. Mloney borrowed to aid in
the construction of such a work by a municipal corporation
is borrowed for a public purpose, and if the road leads from,
extends to, or passes through the limits of the corporation
furnishing the aid, the bonds of the corporation given as the
means of raising the money, are within the power conferred
by that provision.ยง
3. Attention is also called to the fact, that the courts of
the State have recently decided, in several cases, that the
city had no authority to issue the bonds; and reference is
made to the decisions of this court, where it is held that this
*

Rogers v. Burlington, 3 Wallace, 654.
Thomson v. Lee County, 3 Id. 830.
SMeyer v. City of Muscatine, 1 Id. 384.

t 1 Id. 202.

Dec. 1866.]

IARNED V. BURLINGTON.
Opinion of the court.

court follows the decisions of the State courts in the settled
construction of their constitutions and statutes.
Similar suggestions, in this class of cases, have several
times been presented to this court, and the court has on
two occasions carefully examined the subject, and shown to
a demonstration that they cannot avail where the bonds, at
the time they were issued, were valid by the constitution
and laws of the State, as expounded by the courts of the
State. Discussion upon that topic is unnecessary, as the
point is controlled by those decisions.*
For these reasons, we are of the opinion that the Circuit
Court should have sustained the demurrer of the plaintiffs
to the answer of the defendants.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is, therefore, reversed,
with costs, and the case is remanded for further proceedings
in conformity to the opinion of this court.
JUDGMENT ACCORDINGLY.

LARNED V. BURLINGTON.
The doctrines of the preceding case affirmed.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Iowa.

Mr. Grant, for the plaintiff in error; 31r. -Ewing, contra.

Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the
court.
The present case, in many of its features, is like the preceding. It was an action of debt to recover the amount of
two bonds, each for one thousand dollars, with interest at
the rate of eight per cent. per annum. They were issued
* Gelpcke v. Dubuque, 1 Wallace, 202; Havemeyer v. Iowa Co., 3 Id. 294.

