SAULET V.

SHEPHERD.

[Sup. t

Statement of the case.

SAULET V. SHEPHERD.
1. Under the practice prevailing in the Circuit Courts of the United States
the finding of the facts by the court makes a case in the noture of a special verdict and is conclusive as to those facts; and this although the
petition sets forth a different state of facts which are neither confessed
nor denied by the answer.
2. The right to alluvion depends upon the fact of contiguity of the estate
to the river. Hence where accretion is made before a strip of land bordering on a river, the accretion belongs to it and not to the larger parcel behind it and from which the strip when sold was separated.

EPRoR to the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of
Louisiana.
This was a suit by the heirs of one Saulet for a lot of
alluvion (or "batture" as it is called in Louisiana) fronting
the city of New Orleans, on the Mississippi. It is marked
on the sketch opposite, in shade and as within the letters
F GHL.
The petition of the heirs set forth:
That their ancestor, Saulet, bought, in 1763, a certain
piece of ground (being part of an estate previously known
as the Jesuits' Plantation), and that the same was cultivated
as a plantation up to the year 1810. [The tract thus purchased is in the region marked on the sketch as "Suburb
Saulet."]
That in 1763 the river ran close to and parallel to Tchoupitoulas Street, which was then the public road on the bank
of the river, and that there was, outside of the road and
close to the river, a dyke or levee running along the whole
length of the Jesuits' Plantation, protecting the same from
overflow during the annual rise of the Mississippi River.
That outside of the dyke or levee, an alluvial deposit, designated by the name of batture, was afterwards formed, the
ownership of which gave rise to much litigation, until the
year 1841, when it was finally adjudicated that the said
alluvion belonged to the owners of the lands fronting the
river.

Dec. 1866.]

SAULET V. SHEPHERD.
Sketch showing the lot.

Suburb Saulet.

SAULET V.

SHEPHERD.

[Sup. ot.

Statement of the case.

'That the system according to which the division of such
alluvions should be made between contiguous ripanan proprietors, was also a .matter of considerable doubt until recently, when it was adjudicated that such divisions should
be made between contiguous riparian owners according to
the extent of the front line of each owner at the time of the formation of the alluvion; that the front line of Saulet's plantation,
on Tchoupitoulas Street, extended from a point which is
now the west corner of Benjamin and Tchoupitoulas Streets,
to a point above Roffignac Street, as shown on the sketch.
That about the year 1810, Saulet laid out his plantation
into squares and lots, opened streets thereon, and that it had
since been known as Suburb Saulet.
That the alluvion having continued to form in front of
the said guburb, two other streets, parallel to Tchoupitoulas
Street, and nearer the river, were afterwards opened on it,
to wit, New Levee Street and Front Street.
That on the 3d September, 1807, Saulet sold to one Belleehasse the ground designated on the sketch by the letters
A B C D, on Tehoupitoulas Street, and on the line C D.
That by the same instrument he conveyed to Bellechasse
the alluvion in front of the said portion of ground; but by
reason of the doubts which existed at that time as to the
mode of division of alluvions between contiguous owners,
he stipulated that the alluvion conveyed by him to Bellechasse should be taken between lines parallel to the line of division between Suburb Saulet and Suburb Delord, back of Tchoupitoulas Street, and that the lower line of Bellechasse's batture should
be the prolonqation of the said line of division between the said two
suburbs, indicated by the letters C E of the sketch.
That hence the whole ground designated by the letters
and comprised between the lines C F and C E of the sketch,
situated in front of Suburb Saulet, never was sold or alienated by the said Saulet, nor by his legal representatives, and
was the property of the petitioners.
That the portion of the said ground indicated on the sketch
as that on which the Orleans Cotton Press is built, was now
held and possessed under the aforesaid act of sale to Belle-

Dec. 1866.]

SAULET V.

SHEPHERD.

Statement of the case.

chasse, by one Shepherd, who had probably acquired the
same by prescription.
That the portion of the said ground designated by the
letters F G HI L is now vacant and unoccupied, and under
the administration of the city of New Orleans, according to
the laws of Louisiana, but that the said Shepherd claims the
same, and also the.whole ground comprised between the prolongations of Roffignac and Benjamin Streets to the water's
edge.
The petitioners prayed, therefore, that Shepherd might be
cited; that after due proceedings had, they themselves might
be recognized as the owners of the ground between Front
Street, the IRiver Mississippi, the prolongation of Roffignac
Street, and the line G.F of the sketch, and Shepherd be forever enjoined from asserting title to the said alluvial ground.
Shepherd answering the petition, and denying the title
of Saulet's heirs, set up among other things, that he had
been in uninterrupted and peaceable possession, in good
faith and under just titles, for more than thirty years, of the
property or estate to which the said property sued for was
attached and belonged, and of the said property or batture
as long as the same had existed; and that by reason of such
possession under the said titles, he pleadbd the prescription
of ten, twenty, and thirty years.
And further, that he was a bona fide purchaser of the said
property, without notice; and that all those under whom he
claims, for a series of more than thirty years, had been bond
fide purchasers of the principal estate to which the batture
sued for belongs.
The cause came on to be heard before the court upon the
pleadings, and a large body of evidence, and was argued by
counsel, and thereupon the court, under a practice usual in
Louisiana, found the following, among others, asfacts proved
in the cause:
That the petitioners were the heirs of Saulet.
That, in the year 1763, the Jfesuits' Plantation, situated,

SAULET V. SHEPHERD.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

&c., was sold, and that one lot, as described, became the
property of the said Saulet, and of his heirs at his death,
except in as far as he legally disposed of it in his life.
That, in the year 1763, the Mississippi River was close to
and parallel with Tchoupitoulas Street, which was then a
public road on the bank of that river. That, between this
road and this river there was a levee to prbtect the plantation, and extending along its river boundary, and between
the river and the levee there was a batture. That this batture continued to exist from that time until 1810, without
experiencing much change. But that by the improvement
of the country, and, from natural causes, it bad, since that
time, been raised and extended, and had become the subject
of profitable ownership, and that the maps produced in evidence [from one of which the sketch given opposite p. 502,
is taken], would show, with sufficient certainty, the changes
that the locus had undergone since 1763.
That, from the year 1763, until a period subsequent to
1809, the proprietor, Saulet, and the successive proprietors
of the adjacent lot, now known as the Delord suburb, acquiesced in and acted upon the opinion, that the division-line between their plantations extended on a right line across the batture,
without experiencing any deflection in consequence of the change
made by alluvium. That the claimants under Saulet had
acted on the same opinion, and had made improvements in
front of their lots, had sustained expensive suits, and borne
the charges of such property to the present time, and that
this suit was the first legal contestation of that right by the
heirs of Saulet.
That the defendant had connected himself with Saulet,
and his heirs, by means of deeds which were read in evidence [and which the court specified], and which showed
that the defendant was entitled to all the estate, rights, and
privileges which were confirmed by the said deeds, or ensue
from those granted to the parties named in them.
That all the land between the levee, as now possessed by
the city of New Orleans and administered for the public use,
and the river boundary in 1763 and in 1810, between the

:Dec. 1866.]

SAULET V. SHEPHERD.
Opinion of the court.

Delord plantation and the farther external line of the lots,conveyed to Bellechasse, continued to the same,-had been
held by the, persons claiming under the deeds of Saulet,
mentioned before;' and that neither Saulet nor his heirs
have, at any time before this suit, contested their right.
The court, upon a construction of the deeds above mentioned, declared:
That all the accretions to those lots between the Delord
plantation and the external line of the iBellechasse lots had,
of right, ceased to be the property of Saulet or his heirs.
That the plea of prescription was available in this case, in
the favor of the.defendant.
Judgment was therefore given to dismiss the petition.
.ifr. Janin, for the plaintiffs in error; A2L.Mason Campbell,
contra.
Mr. Justice GRIER delivered the opinion of the court.
The statement of the evidence made by the court below is
in the nature of a special verdict, and conclusive as to the
facts of the case.
The only question for our consideration is whether the
judgment of the court thereon is erroneous.
The plaintiffs claim, as the heirs of Saulet, a parcel of land
now forming a part of the batture, in _-ew Orleans, and a
part of the levee of the city.
The defendant, in his answer, "claims to have been in
uninterrupted and peaceable possession in good faith and
under just title for more than twenty years, of the property
or estate to which the said land sued for is attached and belongs, as long as the same has existed, and, under the said
titles, he pleads the prescription of ten, twenty, and thirty
years." The court below finds the facts to be as stated in
this plea, and decide the plea of prescription in favor of the
defendant.
The civil code of Louisiana declares that the accretions
which are formed successively and imperceptibly to any

SAULET V. SHEPHERD.

[Sup. t

Opinion of the court.

soil situated on the shores of any creek or run, are called
alluvions.
The right to alluvion depends upon the fact of the contiguity of the estate to the river.. Before there can be a
right to accession" or accretion there must be an estate to
which the accession can attach. The plaintiffs' claim seems
to be founded on the notion that the right to alluvion adhered to the original plantation, and not to the particular
portion of it that borders on the river. They assume that it
stretches over the lots that have been sold fronting on the
river, and debars them from any extension from improvements or natural causes. The case of Graderv. The City of
New Orleans, quoted in the record, has the following statement of the law on this subject. The court in that case says:
"If Gravier had continued proprietor of the whole tract
on which the faubourg has been established, there would
have been no difficulty in determining his title to the alluvion. But Gravier has divested himself of all title to that
part of his tract on which the faubourg is situated, by the
establishment of the faubourg, and by selling the lots fronting and adjoining the highway. It is, therefore, important
to inquire what was the situation of the batture or alluvion
in question at the time when the faubourg was established,
or at least when the front lots were sold, for if no alluvion
existed at the time when Gravier ceased to be the owner of
the land adjoining the highroad, then it is the opinion of
the court that an alluvion subsequently formed would not
become the property of Gravier. The reason of this opinion
is, that if Gravier could be considered as the proprietor of
the road after selling the adjacent land, or of the levee lying
between this road and a public river, he would nevertheless,
not possess that kind of property which gives the right of
alluvion, for the destruction of this property by the encroachments of the river would be a public and not a private
loss, since it could not be appropriated to the private use of
any individual, and the said road and levee would have become necessarily liable to be kept in repair at the public
expense."

Dec. 1866.]

BENTLEY V.

COYNE.

Opinion of the court.

The case stated by the court brings this case within the
principles established by the court in that.
The matter of fact decided by the court was that the defendant had possessed the property for the full period required by the .laws of the State under all the conditions
which those laws demand: a possession of thirty years under claim; a possession of ten years under just titles and in
good faith. The map will show that the division-line between the De Lord and Saulet suburbs which had been established in 1763, and acqtiiesced in by the parties, passed
through the upper corner of the lands of the Orleans CottoAi
Press, and did not touch the land in dispute, which is an
accession in front of the said lots. The facts "as found sustain, therefore, the defendant's plea, and the judgment of
the Circuit Court is
AFFIRMED ACCORDINGLY.

BENTLEY V. COYNE.
1. *Wherea vessel has the wind free, or is sailing before or with the wind, she
must keep out of the way of the vessel which is closehauled by the wind
or sailing by or *againstit. Those closehauled on the wind, or sailing
on the starboard tack, must keep their course.
2. But these established rules of navigation do not apply after a vessel advancing in violation of them is so near another vessel that by such other
vessel's adhering to them a collision would be inevitable. A departure
from them, under such circumstances, by a vessel otherwise not in
fault, will not impair her right to recover for injuries occasioned by the
collision.

were appeals from the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Michigan, in a libel and
cross-libel for collisions of vessels on Lake Michigan; the
questions involved being of fact chiefly, and the cases being
submitted.
THESE

31r. IHibbard,for the appellants; Mr. Newbunj, contra.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the
court.

