68Q

UNITED STATES V.

MCMASTERS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

UNITED STATES V. MOCASTERS.
1. It is the duty of a party excepting to evidence to point out the part excepted to, so that the attention of the court may be drawn to it. Hence
objections of a very general and indefinite nature to testimony taken
under a commission, with interrogatories, and which do not point out
except in gross the portions of the answers objected to, and which embrace matters clearly competent, will not be sustained. If the exception
covers any admissible testimony, it is rightly overruled.
2. A grant in whose language there is some obscurity, and which if open for
construction might present some ground for an interpretation in one
way, may, on a question of location, be explained in a different sense by
an official survey referred to in it, and which was before the party when
making the grant.
3. A tract of land, situate in the Parish of St. Bernard, about ten miles below New Orleans, and claimed in this suit against the United States by
parties under F. & J. Phillipon, held to have been confirmed by this
government, and that grants under the French and Spanish governments
were as extensive and the boundaries as well defined and settled as they
weie under the survey and location confirmed by the United States.

Tuis was a writ of error to the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of-Louisiana, and involved two questions: one,
that of a private boundary to a tract of land, the other a
question of the admission of testimony taken under a commission.
The case was submitted on printed briefs of Mr. Stanbery, A. G., and 21r. Assistant Attorney-General Ashton, for
he United States, plaintiff in error,and of Mr. Janin, contra.
Mr. Justice NELSON delivered the opinion of the court.
This suit was brought, in the court below, by the United
States to recover possession of a tract of land situate in the
Parish of St. Bernard, about ten mils below the city of New
Orleans, on the east side of the River Mississippi, and between that river and Lake Borgne.
The defendants set up two grounds of defence: 1. That
the tract of land in controversy had been granted to Madame
Le Compte by the Spanish government, November 3d, 1784;
and, 2. That the grant was confirmed to F. and J. Phillipon

Dec. 1866.]

UNITED STATES V.

MNIC'MASTERS.

681

Opinion of the court.

by act of Congress, March 3d, 1835, from whom the defendants derived their titles.
1. The Spanish grant was produced on the trial from the
register's office in Nvew Orleans, where these ancient titles
are deposited, and is found in the record.
The Governor, in making the grant, recites:
"Considering the foregoing proceedings, made by the segundo
ayundante of this place, Louis Andry, who was appointed to
make survey and put Dn. Maria Lie Compte in possession of
the vacant land which lies in rear or at the extremity of the
forty arpents in depth of the plantation belonging to Bachemin,
Corbin, Voison, and Portugais, and consists of fourteen arpents
in front, composing the said plantations, until it reaches'Lake
Borgne; and, finding that said proceedings are made agreeably
to the order of survey, and to the grants of the above-named
parties, who are not injured-nay, who have assented thereto,
&c.-Now, TuEREFORE, &c., we do, by these presents, "grant to
the said Maria Lie Compte the above-mentioned fourteen arpents front from the forty arpents in depth owned by the said
Bachemin, &c., to the aforesaid lake, following the same directions which the boundarylines of the said Bachemin, &c., run,
in order that she may dispose of and enjoy the same, &c."
There is some obscurity in the language of the grant,
and, if it was open for construction, there is ground for the
interpretation contended for by the government, namely:
that the 'tract granted consisted of an area of fourteen arpents front, and extending back within parallel lines to
Lake Borgne. But this obscurity is removed by the official
Spanish survey referred to in the grant, and which, as we
have seen, was before the government when the grant was
made.
Phelps, a United States deputy surveyor, and who has
been in the service of the government, under the SurveyorGeneral, since 1828, surveyed the side lines of this tract in
1831, and, according to his recollection and belief, had before him, at the time, the original Spanish survey of Landry,
and fibiowed the side lines of that survey, which were not
parallel, but were diverging side lines, corresponding with

UNITED STATES V.

MCMASTERS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

those of the front grant to ]Bachemin and others. That
grant fronted on a bend of 'the river, on the convex side, or
shore; and, according to the usage in Spanish locations on
such bends, and which is the usage and practice of locations
under our system of survey, the side lines run at.right angles with the bend of the river, and, as in the instance before us, diverge and widen as the lines extend for the entire
depth of the front lot. It was these diverging lines terminating at the rear of the Bachemin lot that were extended in
the same direction by the survey and location of the back
lot of Madame Le Compte, by Landry, to Lake Borgne,
and which were afterwards adopted by Phelps. This Spanish survey and location of the grant removes any obscurity
that may exist in the description.
The survey of Landry was not produced, but its existence
and loss were sufficiently proved to let in the secondary evidence presented on the trial.
The testimony of Phelps was taken under a commission,
and when produced at the trial several oLbjctions were taken
to its competency and admissibility, on the part of the government, which were overruled. The objections were very
general and indefinite, without pointing out the portions of
his answers to the interrogatories which were inadmissible,
except in gross, embracing matters clearly competent and
relevant to the issues. It is the duty of the party excepting
to evidence to point out the part excepted to, so tfiat the
attention of the court may be drawn to it. If the exception
covers any admissible evidence, it is rightly overruled.*
This principle disposes of all the objections in which any
doubt can exist as to the competency of the evidence.
We do not regard, however, the portion of Phelps's testimony objected to as of any particular importance in the
case. The only portions of his evidence which are material
relate to the Landry survey of Mfadame Le Compte's grant,
and his own survey of the same in 1831. But2. The most conclusive defence to this action to recover
* Moore v. The Bank of the Metropolis, 13 Peters, 302.

Dec. 1866.]

UNITED STATES V. MOMASTERS.
Opinion of the court.

the land in question is the decision of the register and receiver, on the petition of F. and.J. A. Phillipon for confirmation, dated December 20th, 1832, the report of these officers
in favor of the claim, 5th September, 1833, and confirmation
by act of Congress, March 3d, 1835.
The Phillipous owned a large tract of land derived from
six French and Spanish grants, all of which are set out on
the record, and among them is the grant in question to
Madame Le Compte. They state in their petition that the
land is situate in the Parish of St. Bernard, on the east bank
of the Mississippi River, about ten miles below the city of
New Orleans, measuring twenty-one arpents front by an irregular depth extending to Lake Borgne, bounded on one
side by the plantation of Mr. Guichard, and on the other
side (below) by the plantations of the widow Beauregard;
the whole, according to a full and detailed plot thereof,
executed by Augustus S. Phelps, United States deputy
surveyor, in the month of February, 1831, herewith presented and prayed to be accorded. This map is in the
record, and includes the tract of Madame Le Compte, with
the diverging lines, as surveyed by Landry, and afterwards
by Phelps.
The register and receiver, after hearing the proofs in the
case, and referring to the claim, and reciting that it contains
twenty-one arpents front by an irregular depth extending to
Lake Borgne, and bounded above by land of Mr. Guichard,
and below by land of the widow Beauregard; and reciting,
also, that the tract is made up of several tracts, all of which
are derived from the original grants made, and completed
in due form, as follows: enumerating the six French and
Spanish grants, with their dates, report--" We are therefore
of opinion that this claim ought to be confirmed." This
claim, thus described by the register and receiver, was specifically confirmed, referring to the date of this report, by
the act of Congress of March 3d, 1835.
We do not deem it necessary to pursue the case further.
It seems to us that the title, to the extent claimed by the
Phillipons, under whom the defendants held, has not only

684

UNITED STATES V. MOMASTERS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

been confirmed by this government, but that the grants
under the French and Spanish governments were as extensive, and the boundaries as well defined and settled, as we
are of opinion they now are under the survey and location
confirmed by act of Congress.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

