:Dec. 1866.]

WALKER V.

UNITED STATES.

Statement of the case.

directed might do, and probably would have done, as the
collection of costs, or otherwise enforcing the sentence.
Here the return shows that nothing is left to be done in
the case. It is altogether gone out of the court.
These views are supported by the following cases:
In United States v. Peters,*which was an application for prohibition to the admiralty, this court suspended its decision
to give the libellant an opportunity to dismiss his libel. The
court finally issued the writ, but there seems no reason to
doubt, from the report of the case, that it would have considered such action by the libellant as an answer to the request for the writ.
In the case of Hall v. Norwood t-a very old case, when
writs of prohibition were much more common than now-a
prohibition was asked to a court of the Cinque Ports at Dover. While the case was under consideration, the reporter
says.* "On the other hand the co urt was informed that they
had proceeded to judgment and execution at Dover, and
therefore that they move here too late for a prohibition, and
of this opinion was the court, since there is no person to be
prohibited, and possessions are never taken away or disturbed by prohibitions." The marginal note by the reporter
is this: "Prohibition will not lie after the cause is ended."
The rule heretofore granted in this case is
DISOHARGET'

WALKER V. UNITED

STATES.

The jurisdiction of this court to re-examine judgments of the Circuit Courts
is limited to cases where the matter in dispute exceeds $2000. Where it
but equals that sum the jurisdiction does not exist.
THE United States had recovered judgment against Walker
in the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of Louisiana,
"for the sum of $2000, with interest thereon at the rate of
* 3 Dallas, 121.

t Siderfin, 166.

WALKER V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

six per cent.," &c., and the case was now here on writ of error.
271r. Ashton, Assistant Attorney-General, citing the twentysecond section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, which gives a
right to review in this court over judgments of the Circuit
Courts "where the matter in dispute exceeds the sum or
value of $2000," now moved to dismiss the writ; the matter
in dispute, as he argued, not exceeding $2000, but being just
equal to it. ie observed that in Knapp v. -Banks,in this
court,* where the motion was to dismiss a writ where the
judgment was for $1720, but with interest added exceeded
$2000, the court granting the motion had indeed said in its
order, "that where the plaintiff in the court below claims
$2000 or more, and the ruling is for a less sum, he is entitled
to a writ." But this, the counsel argued, was said obiter
only, and could not be maintained.
No one appeared against the motion.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
By the terms of the twenty-second section of the Judiciary
Act the jurisdiction of this court to re-examine the jidgments of the Circuit Court, is limited to cases where the
matter in dispute exceeds the sum or value of two thousand dollars.
It has been a good deal controverted whether the sum or
value in controversy is to be determined by reference to the
amount claimed or the' amount of the judgment, or the
amount in dispute in this court. It has been long settled,
however, that when the judgment is for the defendant or for
the plaintiff, and for less than two thousand dollars, and the
plaidtiff sues out the writ of error, this court has jurisdiction
if the damages claimed in the declaration exceed that sum;
but that if the judgment is fbr plaintiff and not more than
two thousand dollars, and the defendant prosecutes in error,
this court has not jurisdiction, for the amount in controversy,
as to the defendant, is fixed by the judgment.t In deter2 Howard, 73.
t Cooke v. Woodruff, 5 Cranch, 13; Wise v. Columbian Turnpike Co., 7
Id. 276; Gordon v. Ogden, 3 Peters, 33; Smith v. Honey, Id. 469.

Dec. 1866.]

BR0WN V. WILEY.
Syllabus.

mining the jurisdictional sum or amount it is obvious that
neither interest on the judgment nor costs of suit can enter
into the computation, for costs form no part of the matter in
dispute, and interest on the T'udgment can only arise after
rendition, while the jurisdictional amount, if determined by
the judgment, is fixed, at rendition. And this was settled in
Knapp v. Banles.* In that case some expressions in the
opinion and in the order seem to support the idea that if the
amount of the matter in controversy is precisely two thousand dollars a writ of error will lie. But the attention of the
court was not directed to such a case, and we are not aware
that such a case until now was ever before the court. But
there is nothing doubtful in the rules applicable to it. This
court has no appellate jurisdiction, except such as is defined
by Congress. The act of Congress limits this jurisdiction
to cases where the matter in dispute exceeds two thousand
dollars. We can no more take jurisdiction where the matter does not exceed than we can where it is less than that
sum. The amount in controversy in the case before us,
ascertained in conformity with the settled principles of
the court, does not exceed two .thousand dollars. 'We
have, therefore, no jurisdiction of the writ of error, and it
must be
DISMISSED.

BRowN v. WILEY.
1. Under the act of March 3d, 1863, establishing the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia, the action of that court can be examined here in
no case in which like action in the Circuit Court of the district, whose
place it supplies, could not be re-examined.
2. Hence, it can be examined only in those cases where there has been a final
judgment, order, or decree.
3. The certificate of the finding of a jury on certain issues involving paternity, marriage, and legitimacy, sent from the Orphans' Court to the
Supreme Court of the district, which certificate of finding is transmitted
* 2 Howard, 73.

