UNITED STATES v. MERCHANT
Per Curiam

UNITED STATES v. MERCHANT
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE NINTH CIRCUIT
No. 85-1672. Argued March 4, 1987-Decided March 24, 1987
Certiorari dismissed. Reported below: 760 F. 2d 963.

Paul J. Larkin, Jr., argued the cause for the United
States. With him on the briefs were Solicitor General
Fried,Assistant Attorney General Trott, and Deputy Solicitor General Bryson.
Penelope M. Cooper argued the cause for respondent.
With her on the brief were Cristina C. Arguedas and Ted
W. Cassman.*
PER CURIAM.

The writ of certiorari is dismissed as improvidently
granted.

*Nalcy Gertner and Judith H. Mizner filed a brief for the American
Civil Liberties Union et al. as amici curiae urging affirmance.

OCTOBER TERM, 1986
Syllabus

480 U. S:

JOHNSON v. TRANSPORTATION AGENCY, SANTA
CLARA COUNTY, CALIFORNIA, ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE NINTH CIRCUIT
No. 85-1129.

Argued November 12, 1986-Decided March 25, 1987

In 1978, an Affirmative Action Plan (Plan) for hiring and promoting minorities and women was voluntarily adopted by respondent Santa Clara
County Transportation Agency (Agency). The Plan provides, inter
alia, that in making promotions to positions within a traditionally segregated job classification in which women have been significantly underrepresented, the Agency is authorized to consider as one factor the sex
of a qualified applicant. The Plan is intended to achieve a statistically
measurable yearly improvement in hiring and promoting minorities and
women in job classifications where they are underrepresented, and the'
long-term goal is to attain a work force whose composition reflects the
proportion of minorities and women in the area labor force. The Plan
sets aside no specific number of positions for minorities or women, but
requires that short-range goals be established and annually adjusted
to serve as the most realistic guide for actual employment decisions.
When the Agency announced a vacancy for the promotional position of
road dispatcher, none of the 238 positions in the pertinent Skilled Craft
Worker job classification, which included the dispatcher position, was
held by a woman. The qualified applicants for the position were interviewed and the Agency, pursuant to the Plan, ultimately passed over petitioner, a male employee, and promoted a female, Diane Joyce, both of
whom were rated as well qualified for the job. After receiving a rightto-sue letter from the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, petitioner filed suit in Federal District Court, which held that the Agency
had violated Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964. The court found
that Joyce's sex was the determining factor in her selection and that the
Agency's Plan was invalid under the criterion announced in Steelworkers
v. Weber, 443 U. S. 193, that the Plan be temporary. The Court of Appeals reversed.
Held: The Agency appropriately took into account Joyce's sex as one factor in determining that she should be promoted. The Agency's Plan
represents a moderate, flexible, case-by-case approach to effecting a
gradual improvement in the representation of minorities and women

