ROBERTSON v. GORDON.
226 U. S.

Syllabus.

ROBERTSON v. GORDON, AND
VALE.

BUTLER AND

APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 56.

Argued November 15, 1912.-Decided December 16, 1912.,

A contract between attorneys for division of fees construed according
to the definite meaning therein expressed.
Qucere whether evidence to prove that there was a condition precedent
to be performed before a contract took effect is admissible without
a cross-bill.
Under a contract by attorneys for division of fees, if the attorney
claiming did any work, whether more or less, there is no failure of
consideration.
Where an agreement to leave a dispute as to amounts due under a contract to certain third parties provides that in case of their refusal to
act no rights are affected, it is not permissible after such a refusal to
bring in an attempt of another tribunal to adjudicate the claim.
The decision of a court that has no jurisdiction of the subject-matter
or the parties is not res judicata.
An act of Congress directing the Court of Claims to determine the
amount due attorneys for fees in an Indian litigatioli to be apportioned by certain attorneys named amongst all entitled to share as
agreed among themselves, concerns only the amount and not the
manner of distribution, United States v. Dalcour, 203 U. S. 408,
and so held as to the act of June 21, 1906, c. 3504, 34 Stat. 325.
'In this case a contract between two attorneys agreeing to share
equally all fees received from an Indian litigation, held not to have
been superseded by a decision that one was entitled to a much larger
share than the other made by the Court of Claims under authority
of an act of Congress authorizing it to determine the total amount
due to all attorneys.
34 App. D. C.,539, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the construction of a contract
between attorneys for division of fees, are stated in the
opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

Mr. George H. Lamar, with whom Mr. George H. Patrick
was On the biief, for appellant.
Mr. Henry E. Davis for appellees.
MR.JUSTIE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit upon the following contract:
March 28, 1906.
This dgreement made between F. C. Robertson and
Hugh H..Gordon, witnesseth, that they shall share equally
ifi all -nbnies, appropriated by Congress, or allowed by
ihe interior Department which may accrue to said Gordon
or said Robertson as attorney fees, growing out of the
renditioh of services to the Colville tribe of Indians,
whether, allowed under the Maish-Gordon contract with
said tribes, or on any other theory whatsoever, which said
interest is to'inure to either party, no matter in whose
name such allowance is made. Both parties hereto to
mutually labor to secure such allowance. Out of said
Robertson's share he agrees to compensate R. D. Gwydir,
by a reasonable compensation. The fees to be divided
between said Robertson & said Gordon as herein provided
shall be the net sum accruing to said Gordon, after settling
with other attorneys under contracts heretofore made
by said Gordon.

F. C.

ROBERTSON.

HUGH H. GORDON.

There is also a claim upon a receipt signed by Gordon
for $150 given by Robertson to Gordon "with which to
pay expenses of trip to Washington, D. C., to look after
the interests of Gordon Gwydir & Robertson in the matter.
of the claim of the Indians, of the Colville Reservation
against the U. S. Government. In case we succeed in
collecting said claim, I agree that out of my share of the

ROBERTSON v. GORDON.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

profits, I will repay to said Robertson the said one hundred and fifty dollars." This was dated March 21, 1906,
a few days earlier than the one first set forth.
By an act of June 21, 1906, c. 3504, 34 Stat. 325, 377,
378, a million and a half dollars were set aside by Congress for payment to the Indians in respect of the matter
as to which the contract contemplated that services would
be rendered to them. This statute also gave jurisdiction
to the Court of Claims to render a judgment in favor of
Butler and Vale, attorneys, for all services by all lawyers
to the Indians; the amount to be paid out of the fund and
to be apportioned among such lawyers by agreement
among themselves. One fifth of the fund was paid over
to the Indians under an act of March 1, 1907 (34 Stat.
1015, c. 2285). By an act of April 30, 1908, c. 153, 35
Stat. 70, 96, another fifth was directed to be paid over in
pursuance of the statute of 1906. Meantime Butler and
Vale had brought their suit in the Court of Claims and
on May 25, 1908, the court gave judgment for a total of
$60,000, of which it undertook to apportion $14,000 to
Gordon and $2,000 to the plaintiff and appellant. 43
Ct. Cl. 497, 525. Thereafter in August, 1908, this bill
was filed to secure payment out of the Indian fund and
to establish the plaintiff's right to an equal share in the
amount allotted to Gordon and a lien upon that amount
for such share and for the 3150 additional advanced as
above set forth.
The controversy is wholly between Robertson and
Gordon and it is unnecessary to refer to the other parties
or other aspects of the case. The Maish-Gordon contract
with the Indians had expired at the time of the agreement
in suit and one of the defences is that the agreement was
made upon the implied understanding and condition that
Robertson should get a new contract with the Indians,
which never came to pass. The other defences are that
the matter is concluded by the judgment of the Court of

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

Claims, and that the agreement was superseded by two
other agreements of a little later date, made when the matter of an appropriation for the Indians was pending in Congress. The first of these, dated April 3, 1906, and signed by
Gordon, Robertson, Butler and Vale, was that the parties
would submit to the Conference Committee of the Senate
and House their respective claims fot services, on a quantum meruit, and would abide by any award that should
be made, "and in case no award shall be made the rights
of the said parties shall remain unaffected." The second
agreement dated April 12, 1906, between Marion Butler
and R. W. Nuzum, each on behalf of himself and others
not named, and Gordon and Robertson, was, that, provided the sum of $150,000 was allowed for payment of
attorneys representing the Indians, $18,750 should be paid
to Nuzum, $9,375 to Gordon, and $9,375 to Robertson;
the remainder to be distributed by Butler as he elected.
"Should the appropriation be less, then this agreement
is to be. the basis of distribution, sharing pro rata in such
diminished sum, as the percentage is thereby diminished."
Both of the last two defences seem to have been sustained
by the Court of Appeals. 34 App. D. C. 539. See for
details not material here Butler v. IndianProtective Association, 34 App. D. C. 284; Gordon v. Gwydir, 34 App. D. C.
508.
We are of opinion that the decree must be reversed and
that the plaintiff is entitled to prevail. He starts with a
contract of definite meaning. We perceive no ground for
the doubt suggested in the court of first instance whether
this agreement applies to a sum allowed by the Court of
Claims. That court merely rendered certain the amount
appropriated in terms by Congress out of the Indian fund.
The argument that there was a condition precedent that a
new contract should be made with the Indians, although
no doubt such a contract was hoped and worked for, is
irreconcilable with the instrument as it stands and ap-

ROBERTSON v. GORDON.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

pears to us not to be supported by the evidence, if that
evidence were admissible without even a cross bill. Sprigg
v. Bank of Mount Pleasant, 14 Peters, 201, 206. Brown v.
Slee, 103 U. S. 828. Simpson v. United States, 172 U. S.
372. Again there is no doubt that Robertson did some
work, whether more or less does not matter, so that there
was no failure of consideration, according to the common
rather inaccurate phrase. The only questions then are
those concerning the effect of the later contracts and the
decree of the Court of Claims.
The contract of April 3, proposing to submit all claims
to the Conference Committee of the Senate and the House
came to nothing, because the parties were informed that
the Committee would not undertake to settle disputes
between lawyers. By the express terms of this instrument therefore no rights were affected. It appears to
us wholly unpermissible to bring in the subsequent attempt of the Court of Claims to adjudicate on a quantum
,meruit under an act of Congress that had not then been
passed, as satisfying the conditions of the contract and
binding the parties by virtue of the agreement if not by
its own proper force.
The second contract was not made until nine days
later-not improbably on the footing that the attempt of
April 3 had failed. This contemplated a fixing of the
attorneys' fees by Congress, again a different course from
that taken by events. We see no reason for supposing
that it was intended to change the relations between
Robertson and Gordon. Primarily they were on one side
of the agreement against Butler and associates on the
other. Secondarily they were recognized as entitled to
equal shares. Neither do we see reason for connecting
this with the contract of April 3, as alternatively intended
to cover the whole ground and to supersede that of March
28 in suit. These later contracts were on their face successive; the earlier one appl.ed only to an event that has

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

not happened and the latter if applicable in any degree
does not help the defendants' case. It is not to be supposed that it tacitly overrode the agreements of the parties in March to pay certain other lawyers out of their
respective shares-and if not, the March contract remained on foot.
Finally as to the defence-of res judicata the short answer is that the Court of Claims had no jurisdiction of
either the subject-matter or the parties. Of course jurisdiction could not be claimed unless the special act of
June 21, 1906, heretofore mentioned, conferred it. That
act authorized the court:to "render final judgment in
the name of Butler and Vale .
.
for the amount of
compensation which shall be paid to the attorneys who
have performed services as counsel on behalf of .said
Indians in the prosecution of the claim of said Indians for
payment for said land, and in determining the amount of
compensation for such services the court may consider
all contracts or agreements heretofore entered into by
said Indians with'attorneys who have represented them
in the prosecution of said claim, and also all services
rendered by said attorneys for said Indians in the matter
of said claim." It then directed that Butler and Vale
should file a petition and that the Secretary of the Treasury should pay them the sum awarded on final judgment
out of the sum appropriated for the Indians-payment
to be in full compensation of all attorneys who had rendered services to the.Indians in the matter, "the same to
be apportioned among said attorneys by said Butler and
Vale as agreed among themselves" provided that before
any attorney having an agreement with Butler and Vale
should be paid he should deliver to the Secretary of the
Interior a discharge of all'demands for services in the
matter of this Indian claim.
. Argument hardly can make the intent of the statute
clearer. The question before the Court of Claims was the

ROBERTSON v. GORDON.
226 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

amount and the whole amount to be deducted from an
Indian appropriation before! it should be paid over for
the Indians by the United States. That necessarily 'concerned the United States. The manner in which the fund
should be distributed did not concern it at all. Therefore it selected representatives of all claimants against
the fund, ordered the sum deducted to be paid to them
and transferred all claims outstanding against the Indians
to the sum so paid over-a method familiar to our legislation. United States v. Dalbour, 203 U. S. 408, 422. The
reference to contracts with the Indians merely permitted
the court. to take them into consideration in determining
what was a fair total, without being governed by them,
as for instance, the expired Maish-Gordon contract which
allowed ten per cent; and to the same end other services
were to be taken into account. But the act itself determined what parties were to be before the court, namely
Butler and Vale, they being the only ones necessary for
the object in view. The plaintiff could not have made
himself a party if he had wanted to, and he did not want
to and did not--he rightly understood that his claim was
to be satisfied outside of the suit before the court. We
do not think a discussion of the evidence necessary, although we think that the courts below mistook its effect.
It is enough to say that the decree of the Court of Claims
perhaps was not intended to have effect and certainly
could not have effect in deciding the rights of the parties
among themselves.
Decree reversed.
MR.JUSTCE PITNEY was not present at the argument
and took no part in the decision of this case.

