OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

226 U. S.

demurrer excludes a decision upon the merits, and even
if the decree referring to it did not have the same effect
by itself, the opinion to which the decree also refers would
show the same thing. Of course if the court was not empowered to grant the relief whatever the merits might be,
it could not decide what the merits were. The two grounds
are not on the same plane, as they were in Ontario Land
Co. v. Wilfong, 223 U. S. 543, 559, and when jurisdiction
to grant equitable relief was denied the ground of the
merits could not be reached. In Forsyth v. Hammond,
166 U. S. 506, jurisdiction had been taken in the earlier
decision relied upon. Here it was refused.
Judgment affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. READING COMPANY.
TEMPLE IRON COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
READING COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN. DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

Nos. 198, 206, 217. Argued October 10, 11, 1911.-Decided December 16,
1912.

The United States filed a bill to enforce the provisions of the Sherman
Anti-trust Act of July 2, 1890, against an alleged combination of
railroad and coal mining companies formed to restrain competition
in the production, sale and transportation in interstate commerce
of anthracite coal. The bill alleged a general combination through
an agreement between the carrier defendants to apportion the coal
tonnage between themselves on a scale of percentages; a combination through the medium of one of the mining companies to prevent
the construction of a new competing coal carrying road from the
anthracite district to tide-water; a combination by a series of identical contracts with independent coal operators for sale of their total.
product; and certain contributory combinations between some but
not all of the defendants. The bill was filed prior to the enactment

UNITED STATES v. READING CO.
226 U. S.

Syllabus.

of the Commodities Glause of bhe Hepburn Act of June 29, 1906.
Held that:
Any relief against a continuance of the transportation of carrier owned
coal under the Commodities Clause must be sought in a proceeding
based upon that act and cannot be obtained in this suit.
On the record in this case, this court agrees with the court below that
the Government has failed to show any contract or combination for
the distribution of coal tonnage between the carriers.
The defendants did combine to unreasonably restrain interstate commerce in violation of the Shrmnan Anti-trust Act through the
Temple Iron Company to prevent the construction of the competing
coal carrying railroad.
Although a combination has succeeded in accomplishing one of the
purposes for which it was formed, if it is still an efficient agency to
prevent competition in other methods, the court may proceed to
judgment and decree its dissolution.
A disclaimer on the part of defendants of power of any one of them to
control business of the others cannot detract from the significance
of documentary evidence bearing on the relations of the defendants
to each other.
Although separate acts of the defendants may be legal under the state
law when considered alone, they may, when taken together, become
parts of an illegal combination under the Anti-trust Act which it is
the duty of the court to dissolve.
Acts absolutely lawful may be steps in a criminal plot. Aikens v.
Wisconsin, 195 U. S. 206.
While no one of a number of contracts considered severally may be in
restraint of trade, each of a series of innocent contracts may be a
step in a concerted criminal plot to restrain interstate trade, and,
if so, may thereupon become unlawful under the Anti-trust Act.
Swift & Co. v. United States, 16 U. S. 375.
In this case held that a series of identical contracts between interstate
carriers with a great majority of the independent coal operators to
market all the coal of the latter for all time at an agreed percentage
of tide-water price were all parts of a concerted scheme to control the
sale of the independent output and were unreasonable contracts in restraint of interstate trade within the prohibition of the Sherman Act.
Where, as in this case, purchase and delivery within a State is but one
step in a plan and purpose to control and dominate trade and commerce in other States for an illegal purpose, it is an interference with
and restraint of interstate commerce. Loewe v. Lawlor, 208 U. S. 274.
While the Sherman Act does not forbid or restrain the power to make

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for the United States.

226 U. S.

usual and normal contracts to further trade through normal methods,
whether by agreement or otherwise, Standard Oil (Jo. v. United
States, 221 U. S. 1, it does forbid contracts entered into according
to a concerted scheme, as in this case, to unduly suppress competition and restrain freedom of commerce among the States.
While the law may not compel competition, it may remove illegal
barriers resulting from illegal agreements, such as those involved
in this case, which make competition impracticable.
Whether a particular act or agreement is reasonable and normal or
unreasonable may in doubtful cases turn upon intent, and the extent of control obtained over the output of a commodity may afford evidence of the intent to suppress competition.
Where there is no doubt that the necessary result of an act is to materially restrain trade between the States, intent is of no consequence.
In a suit to restrain all defendants from carrying out an illegal combination under the Sherman Act in which all defendants participated,
the court will not consider minor combinations between less than all
of the defendants which did not constitute part of the general
combination found to be illegal. To do so would condemn the bill
for misjoinder and multifariousness.
In this ease the court expresses no opinion on such minor combinations
and as to them the bill should be dismissed without prejudice.
183 Fed. Rep. 427, affirmed in part and reversed in part.
THE facts, which involve the legality under the Sherman
Anti-trust Act of certain combinations of railroad and
coal mining companies engaged in the production, sale
and transportation in interstate commerce of anthracite
coal, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. J. C. McReynolds, with whom The Attorney General

and Mr. G. Carroll Todd were on the brief, for the United
States:

The interests of defendant railroads in the shares of
coal owning and producing companies and in anthracite
coal lands acquired since January 1, 1874, are held in
violation of the constitution of Pennsylvania.
Constitution of Pennsylvania, adopted November 3,
1873, effective January 1, 1874, Art. XVII, § 5 Int. Com.

UNITED STATF.8 v. READING CO.
226 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

Comm. v. Phila. & Reading Ry. Co., 123 Fed. Rep. 969;
Lehigh Valley R. Co. v. Rainey, 112 Fed. Rep. 487; Stock,
ton v. Central R. R. of N. Jr., 50 N. J. Eq. 52; Farmers'
Loan & Trust Co. v. New York &c. R. Co., 150 N. Y. 410,
430; York &c. R. Co. v. Winans, 17 How. 31, 40. Commodities Clause Case, 213 U. S. 366, is not in conflict with
the view that a railroad owning substantially the entire
capital stock of a coal mirdng company is "directly or
indirectly" engaged in mining within the meaning of the
Pennsylvania constitution.
Where a coal company is run as a department of the
railroad, the latter has an "interest, direct or indirect,"
in the mining, even within the restricted sense of those
words in the commodities clause. United States v. Lehigh
Valley R. Co., 220 U. S. 257.
Conceding that prior to January 1, 1874, the legislature
of Pennsylvania had authorized railroads, either in their
own names or indirectly tuough holding the stock of and
controlling coal mining companies, to engage in mining
coal for transportation over their own lines, it was yet
within the power of the people of that State to provide
in their new constitution, all existing laws and charters
to the contrary notwithstanding, that no railroad not
then so engaged in mining coal should thereafter be permitted to do so; that the authority once granted, whether
by general or special law, in so far as it remained unexecuted, was then and there repealed. Pearsallv. Great
Northern Ry. Co., 161 U. S. 646; Louisille & Nashville
R. Co. v. Kentucky, 161 U. S. 677.
All rights and privileges granted to corporations in
Pennsylvania since 1857 were taken expressly subject to
revocation, excepting in so far as they might become executed. Pennsylvania constitution of 1790, as amended
in 1857, Art. I, § 26; 1 Brightly's Purdon's Dig. Pa. L.,
10th ed., p. 24; Pennsylvania Railroad v. Duncan, 111 Pa.
St. 352, 361; Hays v. Commonwealth, 82 Pa. St. 518.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for the United States.

226 U. S.

As to the limitation upon the right to alter or revoke
expressed in the clause, "in such manner, however, that

no injustice shall be done to the corporators," see Bienville Water Co. v. Mobile, 186 U. S. 212, 222.
It makes no difference whether the shares of a mining
company are purchased at a judicial sale rather than a

private sale, since the constitution makes no distinction
between the two modes. Louisville & Nashville R. Co. v.
Kentucky, 161 U. S. 677, 692.
It could not obtain by transfer from its predecessor
the latter's right (if any it had) to hold the stock of coal
mining companies in Pennsylvania if the constitution or
laws of Pennsylvania then prohibited such stockholding
by a railroad. Atlantic & G. Ry. Co. v. Georgia, 98 U. S.
359; St. Louis, I. M. & S. R. Co. v. Berry, 113 U. S. 465;
Keokuk &c. R. Co. v. Missouri, 152 U. S. 301, 308-310;
Mercantile Bank v. Tennessee, 161 U. S. 161, 171; Yazoo &
M. V. R. Co. v. Adams, 180 U. S. 1, 18-21; Yazoo & M.
V. R. Co. v. Vicksburg, 209 U. S. 358, 362.

It is enough that the railroad acquired the shares after
January 1, 1874.
No corporation can receive, by transfer from another,
an exemption from taxation or governmental regulation
which is inconsistent with its own charter or with the
constitution or laws of the State then applicable; and this
is true, even though, under legislative authority, the exemption is transferred by words which clearly include it.

Rochester R. Co. v. Rochester, 205 U. S. 236, 254; Yazoo &
M. V. R. Co. v. Vicksburg, 209 U. S. 358; Great Northern
Ry. Co. v. Minnesota, 216 U. S. 206.

Commonwealth v. New York, L.. E. & W. R. Co., 132 Pa.
St. 591, distinguished.
Where a railroad lawfully engaged prior to January 1,

1874, in mining coal, either in its own name or through a
subsidiary company, has since that date, in its own name
or through a subsidiary company, acquired and mined

UNITED STATES v. READING CO.
226 U. S.

Argument for Railroad Corporations.

additional coal lands and so become further engaged in
mining, such lands are held in violation of the Pennsylvania constitution.
Railroads engaged, as defendants are, in transporting
coals of the same kind from a sole and restricted area of
production to the principal market, are competitive, although their tracks may not reach the same mines.
Whether railroads are competitive is a question of
mixed law and fact. State v. Vanderbilt, 37 Oh. St. 590;
United States v. Union Pacific R. Co., 188 Fed. Rep. 102,
113;'Kimball v. Atchison &c. R. R., 46 Fed. Rep. 888, 890.
Mr. John G. Johnson and Mr. Adelbert Moot, with whom
Mr. Charles Heebner, Mr. Frank H. Plait, Mr. Robert W.
De Forest,Mr. Jackson E. Reynolds, Mr. George F. Brownell
and Mr. William S. Jenney were on the brief, for certain
railroad corporations, appellants in No. 217 and appellees in No. 198:
The general charge of the petition, that since 1896 the
original defendant railroad companies and coal companies
have combined and conspired to stifle competition in and
monopolize trade and commerce among the States in
anthracite coal, was not sustained by the Government,
and that charge was properly dismissed by the unanimous
decision of 'the Circuit Judges.
The testimony offered by the Government, relating
to the Board of Control agreement of 1876, the meetings
of certain railroad officers from 1884 to 1887, and the leases
in 1892 of the Lehigh Valley and Jersey Central railroads
to the Philadelphia & Reading Railroad Company, did
not constitute legal evidence of the general conspiracy
alleged to have existed from 1896 to 1907, nor of any of
the five particular conspiracies alleged to have been entered -nto in furtherance of such general conspiracy.
The claim of the Government that about 1896 an agreement was entered into for a division of the coal tonnage,-

330

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Railroad Corporations.

226 U. S.

the so-called "Presidents' Percentages,"-and that such
percentage agreement was continuously maintained thereafter, was not sustained by the evidence.
The acquisition in 1898 by the Erie Railroad Company
of the capital stock of the New York, Susquehanna &
Western Railroad Compay constituted no evidence that
the defendant railroad and coal companies were in the
alleged general conspiracy to stifle competition in trade
and commerce in anthracite coal.
The acquisition in 1899 of the Simpson and Watkins
collieries by The Temple Iron Company, in which some of
the defendants were interested, constituted no evidence
that the defendants were engaged in the alleged general
conspiracy.
The acquisition in 1901 by the Erie Railroad Company
of the capital stock of the Pennsylvania Coal Company
furnished no evidence of the alleged general conspiracy.
The acquisition in 1901 by the Reading Company of a
majority of the capital stock of the Central Railroad
Company of New Jersey furnished no evidence that the defendants were engaged in the general conspiracy alleged.
It was no proof of the alleged general conspiracy, that
certain of the defendant railroads purchased minor interests in the capital stock of the Lehigh Valley Railroad
Company, and afterwards sold the same at a profit.
It was no proof of the general conspiracy alleged, that
in 1905 the Lehigh Valley Railroad Company purchased
the interests of Coxe Brothers & Company in a branch
line of railroad and in certain coal mining properties on
such branch line.
The acquisition of coal lands from time to time by the
defendants constituted no evidence of the general conspiracy alleged.
There was no evidence of an agreement or conspiracy
to establish or to maintain uniform sales prices or uniform
transportation rates.

UNITED STATES v. READING CO.
226 U. S.

Argument for Coal Mining Corporations.

As to the 65% contracts, the only issue presented by
the pleadings is whether they were entered into in pursuance of an agreement or conspiracy between the original
defendants to restrain interstate commerce.
The history of these contracts should satisfy this court,
as it did the majority of the Circuit Judges, that these
contracts did not arise from any desire to terminate a
trade war or other competitive conditions, that they were
not framed either as the result of any combination or
with any object or intent to stifle or obstruct either the
production or sale of coal, that they have not had the
effect of restricting commerce in coal, and that, on the
contrary, they were framed with honest purposes, to establish fair methods of conducting business and that they have
resulted in the promotion and increase of commerce.
The 65% contracts are not, in themselves, unlawful
and unreasonable restraints of interstate trade and commerce. Those contracts are intrastate, and not interstate
contracts; they do not affect interstate commerce, except
indirectly and incidentally, and so are not violative of
the Anti-trust Act.
Mr. James H. Torrey for certain coal mining corporations, appellants in No. 217 and appellees in No. 198:
The 65% contracts do not concern directly interstate
commerce and are, therefore, not cognizable in this proceeding.
The position taken by the Government requires as
prerequisite of a decree for the cancellation of the 65%
contracts, the association in purpose or intention of these
defendants with the conspiracy or combination in restraint of trade, which it is charged rendered those contracts illegal. No such association is established either
by the pleadings or proof.
So far as concerns these defendants, the 65% contracts
are perfectly honest, straightforward and legitimate sales

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Delaware & Hudson Co.

226 U. S.

of coal, untainted by any ulterior or illegal purpose or
design.
* As to both contracting parties, sellers and buyers, the
65% contracts are bona fide transactions for the sale of
the product of the particular collieries involved, untainted
by any ulterior or illegal purpose or design.
Mr. James H. Torrey and Mr. William S. Opdyke filed
a brief for appellee, The Delaware & Hudson Company:
The Delaware & Hudson Company has never been a
party to any combination for the establishment of a
monopoly or for the restraint of interstate commerce,
in respect of the production, sale or transportation of anthracite coal.
The contracts made by the Delaware & Hudson Company with the Hillside Coal & Iron Company for the
sale of anthracite coal in limited amounts and in limited
periods to the Hillside Coal and Iron Company, violated
no law of the United States.
These contracts for the sale of coal in the State of
Pennsylvania, and all deliveries under such contracts
were made in the State of Pennsylvania. They were
therefore purely intrastate contracts, both made and
performed within the State of Pennsylvania. They did
not directly relate in any way to interstate commerce.
Coe v. Errol, 116 U. S. 517; The Daniel Ball, 10 Wall. 557,
565; Kidd v. Pearson, 128 U. S. 1, 24; United States v.
Knight, 156 U. S. 1, 13; Hopkins v. United States,,171
U. S. 578, 592, 593, 598, 603; Anderson v. United States,
171 U. S. 604; Addyston Pipe Case, 175 U. S. 211, 247;
Field v. Barber Asphalt Co., 194 U. S. 618, 623; Bigelow
v. Calumet & Hecla Co., 167 Fed. Rep. 721.
The United States is not entitled to ask for the entry
of any decree, by way of injunction or otherwise, against
The Delaware and Hudson Company.
The present proceeding is under a statute of a penal

UNITED STATES v. READING CO.
226 U. S.

Argument for Erie Railroad Company.

character requiring the strictest proof. Northern Securities
Case, 193 U. S. 197, 401.
The absolute freedom of this defendant to make contracts for a sale of a portion,, or even of all, its production
of anthracite coal to anyone or in any form it sees fit,
is one which cannot be taken away from it by any statute
of a State or of the United States.
In the absence of any proof that such sale was upon
the part of The Delaware ,nd Hudson Company a portion of an illegal combination to which it was itself intentionally a party, the company is entitled to enforce
such contract against the other party thereto, and that
right cannot be taken away from it without its consent,
no question of police power being involved. Tracy v.
Talmage, 14 N. Y. 162, 167; Ganson v. Tifft, 71 N. Y. 48,
57; Graves v. Johnson, 179 Massachusetts, 53; National
Distilling Co. v. Cream City Importing Co., 86 Wisconsin,
356; Metcalf v. American School Furniture Co., 122 Fed.
Rep. 115, 120; Carter-Crurne Co. v. Peurrung, 86 Fed.
Rep. 439, 442; Adams v. Coulliard, 102 Massachusetts,
167; Connolly v. Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540.
Mr. William W. Green, filed a brief for appellee, The
Mercantile Trust Company.
Mr. Adelbert Moot and Mr. George F. Brownell filed a
brief for the Erie Railroad Company, appellee:
The United States failed to show that the Erie Railroad
Company, or the stockholders of the New York, Susquehanna & Western Railroad Company, or the stockholders of the Pennsylvania Coal Company, or any other
person or corporation, intended "restraint of trade or
commerce," or to "monopolize or attempt to monopolize
any part of ttade or commerce," and therefore the court
below unanimously and properly dismissed the petition
upon the merits upon the facts.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Erie Railroad Company.

226 U. S.

The defendants' evidence and exhibits affirmatively
disprove the charge of either general or special conspiracies
to violate either §§ 1 or 2 of the act, and show, instead,
that each purchase of stock in question was made by the
Erie Railroad Company for proper and lawful business

reasons under authority of its charter and the legislation
of the States of New York, Pennsylvania and New Jersey,
respectively.
The full constitutional and exclusive power of the National Government by executive officers, legislative acts
and judicial decrees to regulate interstate commerce is
admitted. This does not make the purchase of those
stocks interstate commerce or illegal under the Sherman
Anti-trust Act, because: The New York, Susquehanna &
Western Railroad Company was never a parallel and competing line of the Erie Railroad Company, nor was it in
such financial or physical position to compete at the mines
or elsewhere, as to enable the Erie Railroad Company to
cause restraint or monopoly of interstate trade contrary
to such statute.
The Erie Railroad Company, the Pennsylvania Coal
Company, and its railroad, the Erie and Wyoming Railroad, had been duly authorized to enter into contract and
traffic relations with each other. They had done so; such
contracts were not prohibited by Federal law, nor are they
now, and such contract relations, begun over 40 years
before the stock purchase, still existed, and would continue
until at least January 1, 1911; therefore, the acquisition
of the stock of such companies by the Erie Railroad Company, to give it further control over a connecting railway
in Pennsylvania that was an old and natural connection
and feeder, and of the tonnage it was built to serve, more
than forty years before, the stock purchase, for the same
purpose was lawful. Bosman, 5 R. 1014 R.; Thomas, 5 R.
1121-2; R. R. Co. v. R. R. Co., 171 Pa. St. 284; A. F. &c.
R. R. Co. v. Denver &c. R. Co., 110 U. S. 667; Cin. R. R.

UNITED STATES v. READING CO.
226 U. S.

Argument for Temple Iron Co.

Co. v. Int. Com. Comm., 162 13. S. 184, 197; L. & N. R. Co.
v. West Coast N. S. R. Co., 198 U. S. 483; So. Pac. v. Int.
Com. Comm., 200 U. S. 536-554.
The petition, as we have heretofore pointed out, does
not allege that the Pennsylvania Coal Company stock
purchase was a "step" in the general conspiracy charged,
as it does in other cases; nor does it allege any vice in the
purchase, except that the stock was purchased at an "exorbitant" price, and thereby a proposed railroad wholly
in the State of New York lost its most influential backer
and was never built.
No relief was asked for under this petition, which failed
to even state a case within the statute. The Government evidence wholly failed to establish an "exorbitant"
price; but the contrary was the undisputed fact. No interstate, or parallel, or competing, railroad was involved,
but only a Pennsylvania connection which had been a
feeder of over forty years' standing and its tonnage.
There was no intent to violate the law, and it was not
violated.
Mr. Everett Warren for Temple Iron Company, appellant in No. 206:
The Temple transactions were not for the purpose of
preventing the construction of another interstate carrier
of anthracite, even if it is assumed that the independents
by securing the charter of the New York, Wyoming &
Western contemplated reaching tide-water by the utilization of that proposed road as a means, but were for the
purpose of retaining to the: carriers the tonnage of the
so-called Simpson & Watkins collieries they then enjoyed
under lawful contracts, beyond any hazard of a threatened, or supposedly threatened diversion. In other words,
it was a measure of defense, not offense, the purposes and
intent of which *as to fortify and make sure an already
impregnable legal position.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Temple Iron Co.

226 U. S.

The projected road was an intrastate road and nothing
else, and if it is assumed that the contemplated purchase
of the Simpson & Watkins collieries defeated its construction, and the proofs show the contrary, the purchase
did not have any effect upon interstate trade or commerce.
Simpson & Watkins were not the principal supporters
of the projected intrastate road. The road itself was
a visionary enterprise entirely impracticable and its
abandonment was due to other causes than the acquisition
by The Temple Iron Company of the Simpson & Watkins
collieries.
The charges in the Government's petition, namely, the
high price paid for the Simpson & Watkins properties and
the little value standing alone ot the stock and bonds of
The Temple Company, were without foundation of fact
to restupon and were disproven in the Government's own
case.
There never was contemplated any pooling or division
of the tonnages moving from the Simpson & Watkins
collieries among the railroad stockholders of The Temple
Company serving the region where these collieries were
situated, much less any pooling and division of such
tonnage as a fact.
The history of the management and development of the
Temple anthracite operation since February, 1899, as it
is undisputed and appears in the Government's own case,
discloses a careful, business-like conduct of its affairs in
line with and following out the plain purpose of its entrance into the anthracite field, namely, to make money
out of its mines for its stockholders as independent coal
operators. Its transactions are altogether within the
State of Pennsylvania and end there.
The Temple transaction had and could have no bearing
upon interstate trade or commerce under the actual situation of affairs; are not within the provisions of the Anti-

UNITED STATES v. READING CO.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

trust law, nor indeed within the constitutional authority
of Congress.
MR. JUSnCE LURTON delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a petition in equity filed by the United States
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern
District of Pennsylvania, for the purpose of enforcing the
provisions of the act of July 2, 1890, known as the Sherman Anti-trust Act, against an alleged combination of
railroad and coal mining companies formed and continued
for the purpose of restraining competition in the production, sale and transportation of anthracite coal in commerce among the States.
The defendants originally made such, and alone referred
to hereafter as the defendants, were the following:
The Philadelphia & Reading Railway Company; The
Philadelphia & Reading Coal and Iron Company; The
Lehigh Valley Railroad Company; The Lehigh Valley
Coal Company; The Delaware, Lackawanna & Western
Railroad Company; The Central Railroad Company of
New Jersey; The Erie Railroad Company; The New York,
Susquehanna & Western Railroad Company; The New
York, Susquehanna & Western Coal Company; The Lehigh & Wilkes-Barre Coal Company; The Pennsylvania
Coal Company; The Hillside Coal Company; The Reading Company and the Temple Iron Company. By an
amendment certain other defendants were brought in,
consisting of holders of contracts made by independent
operators of coal mines, and trustees holding securities
which might be affected by the relief soight against the
carrier and coal mining companies, the original defendants. A list of these later defendants is set out in the
margin,' and when they are referred to herein they will be
specifically mentioned.
The Delaware & Hudson Company; Elk Hill Coal & Iron Company; St. Clair Coal Company; Enterprise Coal Company; Buck Run

VOL. ccxxvi-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

The bill alleges that anthracite coal is an article of prime
necessity as a fuel and finds its market mainly in the
New England and Middle Atlantic States. The deposits
of the coal, with unimportant exceptions, lie in the State
of Pennsylvania, but do not occupy a continuous field,
though found in certain counties adjoining in the eastern
half of the State, and embrace an area of 484 square miles.
This coal region is from one hundred and fifty to two
hundred and fifty miles from tide-water. The region itself is broken and mountainous, and the natural conditions
and character of the deposits are such that the mining and
reduction of the coal to suitable sizes for domestic use require very large amounts of capital. Its value commercially is dependent, in a large degree, upon quick and cheap
transportation to convenient shipping points at tide-water,
from whence it may be distributed to the great consuming
markets of the Atlantic Coast States.
The whole problem of advantageously developing these
deposits and supplying the eastern demand for fuel was
one which presented enormous difficulties. From an early
day it has been the settled policy of the State of PennCoal Company; Llewellyn Mining Company; Clear Spring Coal Company; Pancoast Coal Company; Price-Pancoast Coal Company;
Mount Lookout Coal Company; Peoples Coal Company; George F.
Lee Coal Company; North End Coal Company; Melville Coal Company; Parrish Coal Company; Red Ash Coal Company; Raub Coal
Company; Mid Valley Coal Company; Austin Coal Company; Clarence Coal Company; Nay Aug Coal Company; Green Ridge Coal
Company; Excelsior Coal Company; Lackawanna Coal Company;
Dolph Coal Company, Limited; Mary F. W. Howe, Frank Pardee, and
Sarah Drexel Van Rensellaer, constituting A. Pardee & Co.; Lafayette
Lentz, William 0. Lentz and Lewis A. Riley, constituting Lentz &
Company; William Law and John M. Robertson, constituting Robertson & Law; Richard White, W. R. McTurk and Robert White, constituting E. White Company; Joseph J. Jermyn, George B. Jermyn, Emma J. Jermyn, constituting John Jermyn Estate; Joseph J. Jermyni,
Michael F. Dolphin; The Pennsylvania Company for Insurance on
Lives and Granting Annuities; and the Mercantile Trust Company.

UNITED STATES v. READING CO.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

sylvania to encourage the development of this coal region
by canal and railroad construction, which would furnish
transportation to convenient shipping points at tidewater. One of the -defendant carriers, the Delaware,
Lackawanna & Western Company, was given the power
to acquire coal lands and engage in the business of mining
and selling coal in addition to the business of.a common
carrier, and all railroad companies were permitted to aid
in the production of coal by assisting coal mining companies through the purchase of capital stock and bonds.
Thus, it has come about that the defendant carriers not
only 'dominate the transportation of coal from this anthracite region to the. great distributing ports at New
York harbor, but also through their controlled coalproducing companies, produce and sell about seventy-five
per cent. of the annual supply of anthracite. As a further
direct consequence of the state authorized alliance between coal-producing and coal-transporting companies,
it has come about that the defendant carrier companies
and the coal-mining companies affiliated with the carrier
companies now own or control about ninety per cent. of
the entire unmined area of anthracite, distributed, according to the averments of the petition, as follows:
Reading Company ...................
44. %
Lehigh Valley Company .............
16.87%
6.55%
Del., Lack. & Western Company ......
Central Railroad of New Jersey ....... 19. %
Erie Railroad.......................
2.59%
N. Y., Sus. & Western Railroad.......54%
89.55%
It further appears that in addition to the great coalmining companies subsidiary to one or another of the
defendant carrier companies, there are a large number of
independent coal operators whose aggregate production

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

from coal lands, in part leased from the railroad companies or the railroad-controlled coal-producing companies,
amounts to about twenty per cent. of the annual anthracite supply. These independent operators are said
to no longer have the power to compete with the carrier
defendants and their subsidiary coal companies, because
a large proportion of them have severally entered into
contracts with one or the other of the carrier or coal-mining
companies defendant for the sale of the entire product of
their mines for the consideration of sixty-five per cent. of
the average market price at tide-water.
Thus, 'there exists,. independently of any agreement,
combination or contract between the several defendant
carrier companies for the purpose of suppressing competition among them, this condition:
-First: Excluding two carrier companies not made defendants which reach but a limited number of collieries,
the Pennsylvania Railroad Company and the New York,
OntariQ & Western Railroad Company, the six carrier
companies who are defendants are shown to control the
only means of transportation between this great anthracite
deposit and tide-water from whence the product may be
distributed by rail and water to the great consuming
markets of the Atlantic Coast States.
Second: These carriers and their subsidiary coal-mining
and selling companies produce and sell about seventy-five
per cent. of the total annual supply of anthracite coal. Of
the remainder, the independent operators mentioned above
produce about twenty per cent.
The chief significance of the fact that the six carrier
defendants control substantially the only means for the
transportation of coal from the mines to distributing
points at tide-water is in the fact that they, collectively,
also control nearly three-fourths of the annual supply of
anthracite which there finds a market. The situation is
therefore one which invites concerted action and makes ex-

UNITED STATES v. READING CO.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ceedingly easy the accompl[ishment of any purpose to
doniinate the supply and control the prices at seaboard.
The one-fourth of the total annual supply which comes
from independent operators in the same region has been
sold in competition with the: larger supply of the defendants. If, by concert of action, that source of competition
be removed, the monopoly which the defendants, acting
together, may exert over production and sale will be complete.,
This bill avers that the defendants have combined for
the purpose of securing their collective grip upon the anthracite coal supply by exerting their activities to shut
out from the district any new line of transportation from
the mines to tide-water points, and to shut out from competition 'at tide-water the coal of independent operators
with their own coal. The steps said to have been taken
having this end in view, we shall now consider:
The community of interest which has resulted from the
charter powers of the carrier companies to directly or indirectly engage in the business of mining and selling coal
has produced the relation between the carrier and coalmining defendants shown by the several groups into
which we have arranged them, thus:
1. The Reading Company is a Pennsylvania corporation, and apparently nothing more than a holding company. That company holds:
a. The entire capital stock of the Philadelphia & Reading Railway, one of the defendant carriers.
b. The entire capital stock of the Philadelphia & Reading Coal & Iron Company, a coal-mining company.
The three companies have the same president.
2. The Lehigh. Valley Railroad Company owns all of
the capital stock of the Lehigh Valley Coal Company, and
the two companies have the same president.
3. The Central Railroad of New Jersey owns ninety
per cent. of the capital stock of the Lehigh '& Wilkes-

342

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

Barre Coal Company, and the two companies have the
same president, who is also the president of the Reading
Company and its two controlled companies.
4. The Erie Railroad Company owns all of the capital
stock of the Pennsylvania Coal Company and a large
majority of the stock of the Hillside Coal Company, and
the three companies have the same president.
5. The New York, Susquehanna & Western Railroad
Coippany owns nearly the entire capital stock of the
New York, Susquehanna & Western Coal Company, and
they have the same president, who is also the president of
the Erie Railroad Company and of its two allied coal
companies mentioned above.
6. The Delaware, Lackawanna & Western Railroad
Company is itself an owner and producer of anthracite
and seems to have no subsidiary coal company.
7. The Temple Iron Company. The relation of this
company to the several carrier companies will be considered -separately.
Excluding the Temple Iron Company the groups as
arranged are independent of each other, and each group,
in the absence of any agreement or combination, possesses
the power to compete with every other in the production,
sale and transportation of coal from the mines to tidewater. Indeed, the plain averment of the bill is that prior
to 1896 they were actually competing in the market
reached at New York harbor, and that the competition
continued, except as interrupted by abortive or abandoned
efforts to combine, until they entered into the general
combination which it' is the purpose of this proceeding to
dissolve.
That the Delaware, Lackawanna & Western Railroad
Company was itself the owner of coal lands and was engaged in mining, transporting anq marketing its own coal,
and that the other railway defendants were also engaged,
through their subsidiary coal companies, in .mining and

UNITED STATES v. READING CO.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

selling coal, as well as in transporting the coal so mined, is
not determinative of any issue here presented, since this
bill was filed before the Commodities clause of the Hepburn
Act of June 29, 1906, 34 Stat. 584, c. 3591, became effective,
which forbids any carrier engaged in interstate transportation from transporting coal for market, when the coal at
the time of transportation is owned by the carrier company. See United States v. D., L. & W. R. Co., 213 U. S.
366. Any relief against a continuance of such forbidden
transportation must, therefore, be sought in another proceeding based upon the act -of Congress referred to.
The Scope and Theory of the BiM.
The theory upon which the bill is framed and upon
which the case has been presented by counsel is, that
there exists between the defendants a general combination
to control the anthracite coal industry, both in respect of
mining and transportation from the mines to the general
consuming markets reached from shipping points at New
York harbor, and the production and sale of coal throughout the United States.
The contention is that this general combination is established, first, by evidence of an agreement between the
carrier defendants to apportion between themselves the
total coal tonnage transported from the mines to tidewater according to a scale of percentages; second, by a
combination between them, through the instrumentality
of the defendant, the Temple Iron Company, to prevent
the construction of a new and competing line of railroad
from the mines to tide-water; third, by a combination
between the defendants by means of a series of identical
contracts for the control of the coal produced by independent coal operators, thereby preventing competition in the
markets of other States between the coal of such independent operators and that produced by the defendants; and,

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

finally, by certain so-called contributary combinations,
already referred to, between some, but not all, of the
defendants.
Aside from the particular transactions averred as
"steps". or "acts in furtherance" of a presupposed general
combination, the charge of such a combination is general
and indefinite.
The case is barren of documentary evidence of solidarity.
The fact of such general combination, if it exists, must
be deduced from specific acts or transactions in which
the companies have united and from which such a general
combination may be inferred. When and how did such a
combination come about? We start with the proposition
that if any such combination exists it had an origin not
earlier than 1896. Attempts to bring about a suppression
of competition prior to that time, indicated by some of the
evidence, had either proved abortive or had been abandoned. Thus, it is stated that in 1890 and 1891 the price
of coal. of certain sizes at tide-water was from $3.71 to
$3.85 per ton; that in 1892 the Philadelphia & Reading
Railroad Company, the predecessor in title of the defendant the Philadelphia & Reading Railway Company, leased
the lines of the Lehigh Valley Railroad Company and of
the Central Railroad Company of New Jersey for nine
hundred and ninety-nine years, and that the three companies together owned or controlled about eighty per
cent. of the coal deposits of this anthracite region and
transported nearly fifty per cent. of the entire tonnage;
that while these leases were in force the price of coal was
advanced to $4.15 and $4.19 per ton for the same sizes.
It is then averred that in a proceeding in the courts of
New Jersey these leases of the Central Railroad Company
of New Jersey were held null and void, and that in 1893
this decree was followed by a rescission of the lease of the
Lehigh Valley Railroad Company to the Philadelphia &
Reading Railroad Company. It is then averred that

UNITED STATES v. READING CO.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

under the influence of competition thereby restored, the
price of the same grade of coal in 1894 fell to $3.60 per
ton and in 1895 to $3.12 per ton. "Whereupon," the
petition avers, "inviolation of the provisions of sections
1 and 2, respectively, of the Act of Congress of July 2,
1890, . . . the defendants, the Reading Company,
and the defendant carriers, and the defendant coal companies, owning or controlling 90 per cent., more or less,
of all the anthracite deposits, and producing 75 per cent.,
more or less, of the annua.1 anthracite supply, and controlling all the means of transportation between the
anthracite mines and tide-water, save the railroads operated by the Pennsylvania Railroad Company and the
New York, Ontario and Western Railway Company,
which, as aforesaid, reach only-a limited number of collieries, (not defendants here), entered into an agreement,
scheme, combination, or conspiracy, by virtue whereof
they acquired the power to control, regulate, restrain, and
monopolize, and have controlled, regulated, restrained,
and monopolized, not only the production. of anthracite
coal, but its transportation from the mines in Pennsylvania to market points in other States and its price and
sale throughout the several States, with the result that
competition in the transportation and sale of anthracite
has been wholly suppressed and the price thereof greatly
enhanced."
1. We come first to the evidence relied upon to show
such a general combination through an agreement between the carriers to distribute the total tonnage of coal
from this region to shipping points at New York harbor
according to a scale of percentages spoken of as the
"Presidents' percentages."
There is some evidence tending to show that early in
1896 there was an effort made at a conference of the
presidents of the carrier companies to distribute the coal
tonnage between the several carriers, based upon the

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

average percentage of coal carried in prior years by each
carrier. The limited character of the coal field, the control
of so large a proportion of the deposits and of the transportation, was such as to invite agreements and combinations. A pooling arrangement would largely prevent
competition between the otherwise independent groups of
carriers and producers. That any such pooling agreement
was made is denied most earnestly by all of the defendants.
.That there occurred a conference in 1896 looking to such
an arrangement seems probable on the evidence. But
the weight of proof satisfies us that whatever might
have been contemplated or attempted, the scheme proved
abortive, or, if attempted, was abandoned long before
this bill was filed. We do not set out the circumstances
which are pointed out as tending to show such an illegal
agreement, nor do we deem it necessary to discuss the
conflicting direct testimony. We have gone through the
record. The facts are discussed and largely set out in the
opinion, of the court below. Though its judges differed
in respect to the relief which might be granted upon other
grounds, they agreed in holding that the Government had
failed to show any contract or agreement, for the distribution of tonnage. In this we concur.
The Temple Iron Company Combination.
2. We come, then, to the several acts, agreements or
transactions set out in the seventh paragraph of the bill,
two of which are said to have been participated in by all of
the defendants, and therefore to constitute evidence of the
general combination charged, and to be, in and of themselves, illegal combinations between all of the principal
defendants which come under the frame of the bill as in
violation of the act of July 2, 1890, 26 Stat. 209, c. 647.
The transactions referred to are introduced immediately
following the general charge, and are characterized in the

UNITED STATES v. READING CO.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

bill as "steps in the development of this illegal combination and in furtherance of its illegal purposes." It is then
averred, that "the defendants, or some of them, became
parties to the following additional acts, schemes and contracts, among others, in violation of the aforesaid Act of
July 2, 1890." This is followed by five distinct paragraphs, each setting out some distinct contract, combination or agreement alleged to have been the act of all of
the defendants, or of two or some number less than all.
These alleged "steps" and "additional acts, schemes and
contracts," in violation of the Sherman law and in furtherance of the alleged illegal general scheme or purpose,-are:
a. the making of the sixty-five per cent. contracts with
the independent operators; b. the absorption by the Erie
Railroad of the New York, Susquehanna & Western
Railroad Company; c. the acquisition by the Reading
Company of the majority of the capital stock of the
Central Railroad of New Jersey; d. the acquisition of the
Temple Iron Company, and through it of a large number of collieries, for the purpose of defeating a projected
independent line of railway into the coal region; and,
e. the acquisition by the Erie Railroad Company, while
controlling the Hillside Coal & Iron Company, of all of the
shares of the Delaware Val].ey & Kingston Railroad Company, a projected common carrier, and all of the shares
of the Pennsylvania Coal Company.
As we have already stated, two of these transactions
are averred to be transactions into which all of the defendants entered in pursuance of a common purpose and
general design to suppress. competition and restrain commerce in coal between the States.
The first which we shall consider is the alleged combination through the Temple Iron Company. Concerning
this, the petition, in substance, states, that in 1898 many
of the independent coal operators in the Wyoming or
Northern field became dissatisfied with the transportption

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

and market conditions under which they were obliged to
conduct their collieries. -Many contracts for the sale of
their coal to the defendant coal companies had expired
or were about to expire, and they demanded either lower
freight rates or better prices from the coal companies.
A competing line of railway from the Northern or Wyoming zone of the anthracite region to a point on the Delaware River, where connection would be made with two
or more lines extending to shipping points at New York
harbor, was projected as a means of relieving the situation.
The New York, Wyoming & Western Railroad was
accordingly incorporated. Large subscriptions of stock
were taken, the line in part surveyed, parts of the rightof-way procured, and a large quantity of steel rails contracted for. As the road was to be mainly a coal-carrying
road, support from coal-mining companies was essential.
Its chief backing came from independent coal operators.
The most important and influential of them was the firm
of Simpson & Watkins, who controlled and operated
eight collieries in the region, having an annual output of
more than a million tons. The time for such a competing
means of transportation was auspicious. Much of the output of the district not tied up by contracts of sale or transportation was pledged to this project and much more was
promised.
The petition alleges that the construction of the projected -independent railroad would not only have introduced competition into the transportation of anthracite
coal to tide-water, but it would have enabled independent
operators reached by it to sell their coal at distributing
points in free competition with the defendant coal companies. "Wherefore," avers the pleading, "the defendants,
the Reading Company, owning the entire capital stock of
the Philadelphia & Reading Railway Company, and the
other carrier companies defendants herein, controlling
collectively. all means of transportation between the mines

UNITED STATES v. READING CO.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and shipping points at New York harbor, combined together for the purpose of shutting out the proposed railroad and preventing competition with them in the transportation of coal from the mines to other States, and the
sale of coal in competition with their own controlled coal
in the market9 of other States." The plan devised was
to detach from the enterprise the powerful support of
Simpson & Watkins and the great tonnage which their
co6peration would give to the new road, by acquiring
for the combination the coal properties and collieries controlled by that great independent firm of operators. This
would not only strangle the project, but secure them forever against new schemes induced by the large tonnage
produced by these eight collieries, and secure not only
that tonnage for their own lines, but keep the coal forever
out of competition with that of their controlled coalproducing companies.
The scheme was worked out with the result foreseen and
intended. The capital stock of the Temple Iron Company, aggregating only $240,000, was all secured. That
company was then operating a small iron furnace near
Reading. Its assets were small, but its charter was a
special legislative charter which gave it power to engage
in almost any sort of business, and to increase its capital
substantially at will. Control of that company having
been secured, it was used as the instrument for the purpose
intended.
I The plan by which the defendant carriers were enabled
to carry out this scheme and apportion among themselves
proportionate interests in the property acquired and the
burden to be assumed was not simple, but elaborate.
The financial arrangements seem to have been made
through Mr. Baer, who was the president of and a large
stockholder in the Temple Company, and Mr. Robert
Bacon, of the firm of J. P. Morgan & Company. Shortly
stated, it was this: The Temple Company increased its

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

capital stock to $2,500,000 and issued mortgage bonds
aggregating $3,500,000. • Simpson & Watkins agreed to
sell to the Temple Company ' their properties for something near $5,000,000. They accordingly transferred to the
Temple Company the capital shares in the several coal
companies, holding the title to their eight collieries, and
received in exchange $2,260,000 in the shares of* the
Temple Company, and $3,500,000 of its mortgage bonds.
By contemporaneous instruments Simpson & Watkins
transferred to the defendant, the Guaranty Trust Company of New York, as trustee, this capital stock and
$2,100,000 of the bonds of the Temple Company, and
received from the Guaranty Company, $3,238,396.66
in money and $1,000,000 in certificates of beneficial
interest in the stock of the Temple Company. The
Guaranty Company seems to have been but a medium
and was accordingly protected by a contemporaneous
contract with the Reading Company and the other
carrier defendants by which they severally contracted
with the Guaranty Company to purchase the Temple
Company's capital stock in a ,certain agreed proportion
or percentage of the total capital stock, and to guarantee
the bonded debt of the Temple Company in the same
proportion. A large.proportion of the bonds and of the
beneficial certificates of interest 'in stock of the Temple
Company was later guaranteed, or underwritten as the
stock phrase goes, by a syndicate including J. P. Morgan,
William Rockefeller, the Guaranty Company and others.
Thus, it came akout that when this bill was filed the
stock of the Temple Company, which, as seen, is a mere
holding company for the several defendant carrier companies, was owned by the defendants, and the obligations
of that company were guaranteed by them in proportions. based on the percentage of the total anthracite tonnage carried annually by each of the defendant carriers,
.namely: The Reading Company and the Reading Rail-

UNITED STATES v. READING CO.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

way Company, being treated as one and the same in this
matter, 29.96%; the Lehigh Valley Railroad Company,
22.88%; the Central Railroad of New Jersey, 17.12%;
the Delaware, Lackawanna & Western Railroad Company,
19.52%; the Erie Railroad Company, 5.84%; the New
York, Susquehanna & Western Railroad Company, 4.86%.
At the time this proof was taken the average annual output
of the collieries thus acquired was about 1,600,000.tons,
and in the last year the output had arisen to 1,950,000
tons. This combination of the defendants through. the
Temple Iron Company was. effective in bringing about
the designed result. The NewYork, Wyoming & Western
Railroad Company was successfully strangled, and the
monopoly of transportation collectively held by the six
defendant carrier companies was maintained.
The projected competing railroad was undoubtedly
a good faith proposition and held out promise to independent. coal operators not only of the prospect of competition in transportation from the mines to tide-water,
but the possibility of selling their coal either to the controlled coal companies defendant at better prices or to
the consuming public at tide-water in competition with
that of the controlled coal companies. But if we assume
that its construction was doubtful, the result must be
the same as characterizing the purpose and design of the
concerted action of the defendants. They were so far
convinced of the threatening character of the enterprise
that they were moved at great cost to thwart it and at
the same time remove the temptation for like competition
by securing to .themselves forever the product of the collieries named.
That the collieries to be reached by the new road were
not all reached by' each of the defendants is true. The
.great bulk of tonnage from. them seems to have been
carried by the Erie, the Lehigh and the Lackawanna.
But the preservation of the monopoly of transportation

'OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

from the nines to tide-water held by the six lines which
were serving the region, was plainly a common interest,a collective monopoly by which the:profits in coal could
be secured and the monooly maintained by shutting
out any new line totide-water. The extent of the interest
of each in the desired result seems to have been estimated
by themselves as fairly measured by the percentage of the
total tonnage theretofore carried annually by each. Thus
it was that they became owners of the shares in the Temple
Company, and guarantors of its obligations in the -same
porportions.
It has been suggested that since the New York, Wyoming & Western Railroad has been -ffectively strangled
that.it Will be idle. to enjoin -the doing of an act already
accomplished. But -that is a -narrow view of the relief
which may be granted under the statute and the frame
of this bill.
The combination by means of the Temple Company still
exists. It has been and still is an efficient agency for the
collective activities of the defendant carriers for the purPose of preventing competition in the transportation and
sale of coal in other States.
That under the law of Pennsylvania each of the defendant carrier companies has the power to acquire and
hold the stock of coal-producing companies may be true.
That the Temple Company may, under the same law,
have the power to acqqire and hold the capital stock
of the Simpson & Watkins' collieries may also be conceded.
But if the defendant carriers did, as we have found to
be the fact, combine to restrain the freedom of interstate
commerce either in the transportation or in the sale of
anthracite coal in the markets of other States, and adopted
as a means. for that purpose the Temple Company, and,
through it, the control of the great Simpson & Watkins'
-ollieries, the parts of the general scheme, however lawful
considered alone, become parts of an illegal combination
-

UNITED STATES v. READING CO.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

under the Federal statute which it is the duty of the court
to dissolve, irrespective of how the legal title to the shares
is held. Harrimanv. NorthernSecurities Co., 197 U. S. 244,

291. So long as the defendants are able to exercise the
power thus illegally acquired., it may be most efficiently
exerted for the continued and further suppression of
competition. Through it, the defendants, in combination,
may absorb the remaining output of independent producers. The evil is in the combination. Without it the
several groups of coal-carrying and coal-producing companies have the power and motive to compete. That
each may for itself advance the price of coal or cut down
the production, is true. But in the power which each
other group would have to compete would be found a
corrective. The statute forbids the concerted action
which has already brought about the strangling of a
projected competing railroad and the complete control
of the sale of an immense tonnage of independent coal
which had prior thereto not only been a menace to their
collective control of the means of transportation to New
York harbor points, but a large competing factor in sales
at these points. The Temple Company, therefore, affords a powerful agency by means of which the unlawful

purpose which induced its acquisition may be continued
beyond the mere operation of the Simpson & Watkins'
collieries.
Its board of directors includes the presidents of the
defendant carriers, who also are the presidents of the
defendant coal companies, and these defendant companies
absolutely dominate its affairs. The Temple Company
also owns and dominates the great collieries obtained
from Simpson & Watkins. Its board of directors, composed as it is of men representing the defendants, supplies time, place and occasion for the expression of plans
or combinations requiring or inviting concert of action.
Though as a board it may not dictate the activities of
voL. ccxxvi-23

OCTOBER (TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

the owning corporations, still, in view of the relation of
the Temple Company to' the defendant carriers and their
respective coal-mining companies, and of the constitution
of its directors, the attitude of its board as indicated by
the proceedings spread upon the. eorporate minutes is
of significance upon the question of the existence of any
concerted purpose to unite the activities of its corporate
owners to suppress competition. There are to be found
on the minutes of the Temple Company a number of
entries which point strongly to combinations between.,
the defendants. Thus, on June 27, 1899 a committee

was appointed to consider the establishment of a statistical bureau, "to keep a record of all matters of interest
to the anthracite companies." What resulted does not
appear from any further minutes. On July 2, 1901, a
resolution in these words was adopted:
"Resolved, That Mr. Cumming, Mr. Sayre, Mr. Henderson, Mr. Caldwell and Mr. Warren be appointed a committee to consider the advisability and expediency of
making a 40 per cent. rate to outside shippers, or a flat
rate, and, if so, what rate."
By "outside shippers" the- witness says was meant
"independent operators," who. shipped their own coal.
The witness by whom this ,action was proved says that
he never saw the report and does not know that any was
made by the committee. It is true that Mr. Baer, th'e"
president of the Temple Company, denied that the
Temple Company had or undertook to exercise any power
in respect of carrier rates, or in fixing prices of coaL He
says that the minute entries referred to above are matters.
"interjected by somebody," under a misconception of
the powers and duties of the directors of that company,
and came to nothing. That he shortly took the presidency himself and. that the Temple Company "has been
-run as the most harmless mining company inthe State
of Pennsylvania," and has had nothing to do with the

UNITED STATES v. READING CO.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

price of coal or with rates for transportation.

But this

disclaimer of power does not detract from the significance
of the minutes of the Board referred to as evidence bear-

ing upon the question of the relation of the several defendants to each other.

We are in entire accord with the view of the court below in holding that the transaction involved a concerted
scheme and combination for the purpose of restraining
commerce among the States 'in plain violation of the Act
of Congress of July 2, 1890.
3. We come now to the sixty-five per cent. contracts.
The charge of the petition in respect to these contracts
is substantially this:
a. That the defendant carriers possessed a substantial
monopoly of all- of the means of transportation between
the coal region and tide-water.

b. That they directly or indirectly through their controlled coal companies produced about seventy-five per
cent. of the annual supply of anthracite coal.
c. That twenty per cent. or more of the annual supply
was produced by independent operators, whose collieries
were located contiguous to the carrier lines of the defendant companies.

d. This being the situation, it is charged, that for the
purpose of preventing the output of these independent
producers "from being sold throughout the several States
in competition with the output from their own mines, or
of the mines of their subsidiary coal companies, the said
defendant carriers, having almost a complete monopoly
of the means of transportation between the anthracite
mines and tide-water, entered into and now maintain
an agreement, combination or conspiracy to use their
power as said carriers to obtain control of the sale and
disposition of the aforesaid output of the independent
mines in the markets of the several States, particularly

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

of the great distributing market at New York harbor, in
violation of the aforesaid Act of July 2, 1890."
it is further averred:
e. That prior to 1900 the defendants "severally made"
a large number of short term contracts for the purchase
of the coal of independent operators "along their respective lines," at prices ranging from fifty-five to sixty per
cent. of the average price at tide-water.
That upon the termination of these contracts the defendants "in pursuance of a previous agreement between
themselves, severally offered to make and did make and
conclude with nearly all of the independent operators
along their lines new contracts containing substantially
uniform provisions agreed upon beforehand by the defendant carriers in concert, some of the operators contracting with one of the defendants and some with another,"
by which such operators "severally agreed" to deliver
on cars at breakers "to one or the other of the defendant
carriers, or its subsidiary coal company, all the anthracite
coal thereafter mined from any of their mines now opened
and operated, or which they might thereafter open and
operate, deliveries to be made from time to time as called
for," etc. In consideration, the sellers were to receive
for prepared sizes sixty-five per cent. of the general average price prevailing at tide-water points at or near New
York as computed from month to month, this average
price to be settled by an expert agreed upon by the
parties.
It is further averred that this price was such as to enable the independent operator entering into one of these
contracts to realize upon his coal from fifteen to fifty
cents more than he could when shipping on his own account after paying the established rates of transportation,
waste and cost of selling, in competition with the coal
of the defendants. That the difference was the price paid
for the privilege of controlling the sale of the independent

UNITED STATES v. READING CO.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

output, "so as to prevent it from selling in competition
with the output cf their ownl mines."

It is then further alleged that the result of this plan,
"as was intended, was to draw, if not to force, the great

body of independent operators into making the aforesaid
contracts, thereby enabling the defendants to control
absolutely, and until the mines are exhausted, the output
of most of the independent anthracite mines, and to prevent it, as aforesaid, from being sold in competition with
the output of their own mines in the markets of the several
States, particularly in the great tide-water markets."
It is obvious that the averments do not touch upon the
legality of the contracts considered severally, and ask no
relief upon the theory that each was a contract in restraint
of trade. The theory and. charge of the bill is that by
concerted action between the defendants the independent
operators were to be induced to enter singly into uniform
agreements for the sale of the entire output of their several
mines and any other they might thereafter acquire, excluding a'negligible amount of -unmarketable coal and
coal for local consumption. And the further theory of
the pleading is that by such concerted action and through
the higher price offered, the defendants would obtain-

such control of independent coal as to prevent competition
'in the markets of other States.
It is not essential that these contracts considered singly
be unlawful as in restraint of trade. So considered, they
may be wholly innocent. Even acts absolutely lawful
may be steps in a criminal plot. Aikens v. Wisconsin,
195 U. S.194, 206. But a series of such contracts, if the
result of a concerted plan or plot between the defendants
to thereby secure control of the sale of the independent
coal in the markets of other States, and thereby suppress
competition in prices between their own output and that
of the independent operators, would come plainly within
the terms of the statute, and, as parts of the scheme oi plot

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

would be unlawful. Thus in Swift & Company v. United
States, 196 U. S. 375, 396, where a plan or scheme consisting in many parts or elements was averred to constitute
a combination forbidden by the act of July 2, 1890, it
was said:
"The scheme as a whole seems to us to be within reach
of the law. The constituent elements, as we have stated
them, are enough to give to the scheme a body and, for
all that we can say, to accomplish it. Moreover, whatever
we may think of them separately when we take them
up as distinct charges, they are alleged sufficiently as
elements of the scheme. It is suggested that the several
acts charged are lawful and that intent can make no difference. But they are bound together as the parts of a
single plan. The plan may make the parts unlawful."
That the plan was calculated to accomplish the design
averred, in the present case, seems plain enough. The
anthracite field was very limited. The means for transportation from the mines to seaboard shipping points
were in the hands of the defendant carriers. They, together with their subsidiary companies, controlled about
ninety per cent. of the coal deposit and about seventyfive per cent. of the annual output. If the remaining output, that of the independent operators along their several
lines, could be controlled as to production and sale at
tide-water points, there would inevitably result such a
dominating control of a necessity of life as to bring the
scheme or combination within the condemnation of the
statute.
. That these sixty-five per cent. contracts were the resuit of an agreement through protracted conferences between the independent operators, acting through an
authorized committee, and officials of the carrier defendants, whb were likewise officials of the coal companies subsidiary to the railroad companies, is plainly
established. That they were designed by the defendants

UNITED STATES v. READING CO.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

as a means of controlling the sale of the independent output in the market at tide-water points, thereby preventing competition with their own coal and as a plan for
removing the great tonnage controlled by the independents
from being used as an inducement for the entry of competing carriers into the district, is a plain deduction.
Some of the facts which lead to this conclusion will be
referred to as briefly as the great importance of the case
will permit:
That for a long time many of the independent operators
had been selling their output to their great rivals, the
defendant carriers and their, several coal companies, is
true. By means of such sales and deliveries at their own
breakers, the sellers avoided freight, waste and expense
of sales through agents, etc. The price they would thereby
realize was fixed, and they were not dependent upon a
fluctuating market. So long, therefore, as they could,
sell to their rivals at their breakers to better advantage
than they could ship and sell on their own account, the
method appealed to them. But, obviously, buyer and
seller were not upon an equal plane. The former had
control of freight rates and car service. The seller must
pay the rate exacted and accept the car service supplied
him by the buyer, or appeal to the remedies afforded by
the law. If the rate of freight to tide-water was onerous
and was imposed upon the coal produced by the defendants and their allied coal producers without discrimination
against the coal of the independent shipper, it would
nevertheless bear upon the latter oppressively, since the
rate paid would find its way into-the pocket of the defendants. Therefore, it-was that the higher the freight
rate, the greater the inducement to sell to the carrier companies. That the conditions were not accepted by the
independent producers as satisfactory, is evident. The
majority at all times stood out i and those making such
agreements as well as those refusinig to. do so, maintained

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

an agitation for better freight rates and better prices for
those who preferred to sell at their breakers. For many
years before this proceeding they maintained an organization called "The Anthracite Coal Operators' Association," and through that body endeavored to improve
their situation.
The series of contracts here involved were all made
since 1900, and are therefore subsequent to the combination through the Temple Iron Company, already considered. The charge is that since that combination the
defendants further combined through these contracts.
Prior to 1900, we find no evidence of any combination
or agreement for the procurement of contracts.of sale with
independent operators. Upon the contrary there is much
to indicate that there was more or less competition for
coal accessible to more than one of the buying defendants.
The effect of competition is shown by the gradual rise
in the price the great companies were willing to pay. In
the earliest stages of the business the buying price seems
to have been fixed with some relation to the varying wage
scale of miners. This gave way to an agreed percentage
of the current price at tide-water. Thus the earlier contracts allowed the selling operator only forty per cent.
of the tide-water price for prepared sizes. Through competition between the existing companies, and through
that which resulted from the entry of new carrier lines
with their subsidiary coal companies, the-price was forced
gradually up from forty to sixty per cent. of the tidewater price, and at this latter figure the price stood when
the combination here averred came into existence.
We have mentioned the influence of the coming into
the region .of new coal-carrying railroads upon the per
cent. of the tide-water price which the independent operators were able to obtain from the buying coal companies.
This influence, as we shall see, was a large factor in bringing about the contracts now in question. The carriers

UNITED STATES v. READING CO.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

here defendant did not all obtain their footing in this
anthracite field at the same time. Thus, when the New
York, Susquehanna & Western was projected, it, through
its coal company, offered to buy coal on fifty per cent.
contracts. The price before that had been forty to fortyfive per cent. The result was that the other companies
came gradually up to the same price. This was late in
the eighties, the exact date not being at hand. Again,
it is said in the brief for the defendants, that:
"In the early 90's, the New York, Ontario & Western
Railroad built a branch into the Wyoming region and
sought tonnage. Mr. Sturgis was commissioned beforehand by the coal company of that railroad to offer 60%
contracts on the understanding that, if he could secure
a half million tons annually, the branch would be built.
The branch railroad was built, and by its help large new
acreages of coal lands were developed, tributary to the
Ontario & Western Railroad."
As a consequence, says the same brief, "the other coal
companies began to raise their rates to sixty per cent.,"
and by 1892 that had become the settled price.
The influence of competition, actual or threatened,
was also illustrated in 1898, when the New York, Wyoming
& .Western was projected. A large number of coal contracts had expired or were about to expire, thus creating a
great tonnage open to competition. Many of the operators in the Wyoming region of the coal. field united their
influence to procure the building of a competing line between the mines and New York harbor points. To this
end a large tonnage was pledged to its coal-selling company, which offered to- pay sixty-five per cent. of the
tide-water price to such operators. How and why that
project failed we have already shown in the section of
this opinion devoted to the Temple Iron Company combination.
When that effort failed there arose a movement for a

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

new road from the mines to tide-water through the Pennsylvania Coal Company. That was one of the greatest
of the independent companies, producing in 1899 about
two million tons. It controlled a coal-gathering railroad
called the Erie & Wyoming Valley Railroad, and proposed its extension to Lackawaxen, and to cause the construction from that-point of a railroad line to the Hudson
River. To this end it caused to be organized the Delaware
Valley & Kingston Railroad. Of this project, Mr. Thomas,
the president of the Erie Railroad Company, said: "They
were threatening and had started to build a competing
road to the Hudson River." The independent operators,
in an association maintained by them for their mutual
protection, hailed this scheme with joy. At a meeting
of the association on November 22, 1899, the following
minute was made:
"Mr. E. L. Fuller, chairman of the executive committee, on being called upon, told of the efforts which
have been made to induce the various anthracite railroads
to offer more satisfactory terms for the purchase of the
operators' coal, and of the absolute failure of these efforts
to bring about any definite result. Lie then reported the
organization of the Delaware Valley & Kingston Railroad, backed by the Pennsylvania Coal Company, and
the proffer of this latter company to purchase coal from
operators in the Wyoming and Lehigh region, paying
65 per cent. of the tide-water price for chestnut and larger;
50 per cent. for pea coal, and a flat 85 per cent. freight
rate on buckwheat and smaller sizes. These contracts
were to be for all of the coal in the ground, thus settling
permanently the price which the operator would receive.
"After extended discussion as to the details of these
contracts, and a comparison with the results obtained
under the old contracts, the following resolution was
offered and passed unanimously:
"'Whereas the Erie & Wyoming Valley Railroad Com-

UNITED STATES i'. READING CO.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

pany has arranged to build a branch line from Hawley,
Pa., to a point on the boundary line between New York
and Pennsylvania at Lackawaxen, forming a connection
with a railroad proposed to be constructed by the Delaware Valley and Kingston Railroad Company to tidewater, at Kingston, on the Hudson River;
"'And whereas the construction of the said railroads
is approved and promoted by the Pennsylvania Coal
Company, which has large interests in the anthracite
coal region;
"'And whereas the independent operators and the
general public are now largely at the mercy of the existing
railroad companies, which charge unreasonable rates for
their services, owing in part to the large amounts for which
the said companies have been capitalized;
"'And whereas it would be highly advantageous to
all the independent owners of coal properties throughout
the entire anthracite region of Pennsylvania to have the
railroad connection, now proposed, completed as speedily
as possible;
"' And whereas it is equally desirable, in the interests
of the people of the State of New York and the public in
general, that such railroad connection shall be made
(since it will necessarily result in a material reduction of
the price paid for anthracite coal by consumers), now,
therefore, it is
"' Resolved, I. That this association hereby expresses its
hearty and unqualified approval of the proposed plan for
the construction of the said railroads, and hereby pledges
its constant support and active assistance in promoting
the speedy construction and completion of the said railroads.

"'II. That a committee of three be appointed by the
president, of which the president shall be a member, to.
take such steps as may be deemed advisable toward furthering the said plans and cobperating with the said com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

panies for the completion of the said railroads, and that
a report of their proceedings be submitted to the next
meeting of this association.'
"In the discussion which followed, it was the opinion of
those present that, in view of the hearty assistance which
had been accorded the operators by the Pennsylvania
Coal Company, it .was the duty of the members to give
to this company all of the tonnage which they could -deliver and not to permit any more advantageous offers
which the older companies might make, to divert freight
from a road which was constructed to give the operators
a fair share in the selling price. A vote of thanks was accorded Mr. Fuller for his labor and great success in
accomplishing a work which was for the advantage of
every individual operator in the anthracite regions."
It is enough to say of this project that it was abandoned
when, in 1901, the Erie Railroad acquired, without any
concert of action between it and the other carrier defendants, the capital stock of the Pennsylvania Coal Company,
which carried with it the capital stock of the Erie & Wyoming Valley Railroad and the Delaware & Kingston RailroadThe persistent effort of the independents to bring into
the field competing carrier and coal-producing companies
was a menace to the monopoly of transportation from that
field to tide-water which the defendants collectively
possessed. The independent output was one-fourth of
the annual supply. It was mainly sold at tide-water,
where it came into active competition with the larger production of the defendants; but, as we have already seen,
this enormous tonnage offered a great inducement to the
organization of new carrier lines from the mines to the
seaboard. The contracts theretofore made for the purchase of this output had been for short terms. The expiration of a considerable number had more than once
been the occasion for new carrier projects backed by the

UNITED STATES v. READING CO.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

independent operators. To renew the contracts for short
terms would but postpone the day of competition. The
control in perpetuity of such a large proportion of the
output as would prevent in the future effective competition in the selling markets of the coast, and at the same
time remove inducement to the entry of other lines of
carriers, was the obvious solution of the situation. The
necessary control could only come about through concerted action. If one of the several independent groups of
defendants, or two, or any less number than all, had
sought to obtain control, it would have been resisted by
those not included. Therefore, it is plain that if the coal
of these operators was to be placed in such situation as
that it could not affect the price of their own coal, nor
longer constitute a mass of tonnage sufficient to invite
the construction of new lines from the mines to the sea,
it must be brought about through the concerted action of
the defendants.
In 1900 there occurred the great strike of the coal
miners. Settled by arbitration in the fall of that year, the
miners obtained a ten per cent. increase in wages.. Of
course, this affected the railroad coal-producing companies
and the independent coal companies alike. The great
companies took the lead in the arbitration and accepted
the result. The independent companies were compelled
to follow this lead. The latter, as we have seen, had before
the strike been particularly urgent in their efforts to secure
better conditions from the railroads and their allied coal
companies. This rebellious attitude is partially shown by
the resolution of the 'Anthracite Coal Operators' Association of November 22, 1899, heretofore set out. When the
strike settlement was made, there was some hesitation
among the independent operators about posting notice
of the advance in wages, and through committees they
urged upon the defendants that such advance in wages
justified a reduction in freight rates and a price of not less

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

than sixty-five per cent. for coal sold to the defendant
companies. The committees reported back that they
could not obtain -"any definite promise," but there has
been "an intimation" that something would be done to
improve the present conditions. It was thereupon resolved that the advance scale should be posted, and that
a committee should be appointed "to confer with the
various carrier companies, relative to a new contract."
At the same meeting a number of the operators present
signed an agreement empowering the committee named
"to adjust all differences with certain transportation companies," and agree upon a basis of contract which should
definitely and for a period of years fix the commercial relations between the said operators and the transportation
companies, -"each of the parties agreeing to make a particular contract for himself with the proper transportation company." This agreement, after being signed by
those present, was placed in the-hands of Mr. McNulty
to secure further signatures. These matters appear on the
minutes of the individual operators of October 5th. There
ensued a-number of conferences between the representatives of the sellers and buyers. The result was that a
form of contract and a price was mutually agreed upon,
being the form of the sixty-five per cent. contracts, which
were thereafter entered into as the short term agreements
theretofore made expired. Thus the independents put
in force the advance wage scale imposed by the strike
arbitrators before any agreement whatever was made or
promised by the defendants. This increased scale which
the arbitration imposed having been accepted by the
large companies, could not be successfully resisted by the
independents. It only operated to make them more
persistent in their demand for some improvement in the
methods and prices theretofore prevailing.
That the defendant companies should offer such terms
is not surprising. The contracts to be made would be not

UNITED STATES v. READING CO.
226 U. S.

Opinion cf the Court.

only for the life of the mines being operated at the date
of the sale, but was to extend to any other mines thereafter opened by the seller. The menace of the independent
output as an invitation to competing carriers and as a
competing coal at tide-water would be removed forever.
Upon this aspect of the case we find ourselves in agreement with Judge Buffington, who concluded a discussion
of the evidence by saying ('183 Fed. Rep. 474):
"By such perpetual contracts.
these defendant railroads through their subsidiary coal companies severally made with other colliEries these combiners withdrew,
and still continue to withdraw, such product, for all time,
from competition, either in interstate transportation or
sale. To my mind there is no more subtle and effective
agency for the gradual, unnoted absorption by interstate
carriers of the remaining interstate product than these perpetual contracts. Holding then that they are in the words
of the statute, 'contracts . . . in restraint of trade or
commerce among the states,' I record my dissent to the
action of the court in refusing to enjoin them."
The coal contracts acquired when this proceeding was
begun aggregated nearly one-half the tonnage of the
independent operators. Much of the coal so bought was
sold in Pennsylvania and all of the contracts were made
in that State and the coal was also there delivered to the
buying defendants. That the defendants were free to sell
again within Pennsylvania, or transport and sell beyond
the State, is true. That some of the coal was intended
for local consumption may also be true. But the general
market contemplated was the market at tide-water, and
the sales were made upon the basis of the average price
at tide-water. The mere fact that. the sales and deliveries took place in Pennsylvania is not controlling
when, as here, the expectation was that the coal would,
for the most part, fall into and become a part of the wellknown current of commerce between the mines and the

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

general consuming markets of other States. "Commerce
among the States is not a technical legal conception', but a
practical one, drawn from the course of business." Swift &
Company V. United States, 196 U. S. 375,398; Loewe v. Lawlor, 208 U. S. 274. The purchase and delivery within the
State was but one step in a plan and purpose to control
and dominate trade and commerce in other States for
an illegal purpose. As was said by the Chief Justice, in
Loewe v. Lawlor, (p. 301) cited above:
"Although some of the means whereby the interstate
traffic was to be destroyed were acts within a State, and
some of them were in themselves as a part of their obvious
purpose and effect beyond the scope of Federal authority,
still, as we have seen, the acts must be considered as a
whole, and the plan is open to condemnation, notwithstanding a negligible amount of intrastate business might
be affected in carrying it out. If the purposes of the combination were, as alleged, to prevent any interstate
transportation at all, the fact that the means operated
at one end before physical transportation commenced and
at the other end after the physical transportation ended
was immaterial."
The general view which this court took of the effect
of these contracts upon interstate traffic in the coal of
this region is indicated in Interstate Commerce Commission
v. Baird, 194 U. S.25, 42. The concerted plan concerned
the relations of these railroads to their interstate commerce
and directly affected the transportation and sale and
price of the coal in other States. The prime object in
engaging in this scheme was not so much the control and
sale of coal in Pennsylvania, but the control of sales at
New York harbor.
That per cent. of the average price at tide-water retained by the buyer was assumed to cover the freight,
waste and cost of sale. There is evidence tending strongly
to show that an independent accepting one of these con-

UNITED STATES v. READING CO.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tracts realized slightly more than he could realize if he
had shipped and sold on his own account. This advanced
price, therefore, as charged in the bill, constituted a great
inducement to draw the independents within the control
of the defendants, and makes it highly probable that if
not enjoined they will absorb the entire independent
output.
The defendants insist that these contracts were but
the outgrowth of conditions peculiar to the anthracite
coal region and are not unreasonably in restraint of
competition but mutually advantageous to buyer and
seller.
That the act of Congress "does not forbid or restrain
the power to make normal and usual contracts to further
trade by resorting to all normal. methods, whether by
agreement or otherwise, to accomplish such purpose,"
was pointed out in the Standard Oil Case, 221 U. S. 1.
In that case it was also said that "the words 'restraint
of trade,' should be given a meaning which would not
destroy the individual right of contract, and render
difficult, if not impossible, any movement of trade in
the character of interstate commerce, the free movement of which it was the purpose of the statute to protect."
We reaffirm this view of the plain meaning of the statute,
and in so doing limit ourselves to the inquiry as to whether
this plan or system of contracts entered into according
to a concerted scheme does not operate to unduly suppress
competition and restrain freedom of commerce among
the States.
Before these contracts there existed not only the power
to compete but actual competition between the coal of
the independents and that produced by the buying defendants. Such competition was after the contracts
impracticable. It is, of course, obvious that the law
may not compel competition between these independeRt
coal operators and the defendants, but it may at least
VOL. ccxxvi-24

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

remove illegal barriers resulting from illegal agreements
which will make such competition impracticable.
Whether a particular act, contract or agreement
was a
reasonable and normal method in furtherance of trade
and commerce may, in doubtful cases, turn upon the
intent to be inferred from the extent of the control thereby
secured over the commerce affected, as well as by the
method which was used. Of course, if the necessary
result is materially to restrain trade between the States,
the intent with which the thing was done is of no consequence. But When there is only a probability, the intent
to produce the consequences may become important.
United States v. St. Louis Terminal Association, 224 U. S.
383, 394; Swift & Co. v. United States, 196 U. S. 375.
In the instant case the extent of the control over the
limited supply of anthracite coal by means of the great
proportion theretofore owned or controlled by the defendanf companies, and the extent of the control acquired
over the independent output which constituted the only
competing supply,. affords evidence of an intent to suppress that competition and of a purpose to unduly restrain the freedom of production, transportation and sale
of the article at tide-water markets.
The case falls well within not only the Standard Oil
and Tobacco Cases, 221 U. S. 1, 106, but is of such an unreasonable character as to be within thie authority of a
long line of cases decided by this court. Among them
we may cite: Northern Securities Company v. United
States, 193 U. S. 197; Swift & Co. v. United States, 196
U. S. 375; National Cotton Oil Company v. Texas, 197 U. S.
115; United States v. St. Louis Terminal Association, 224
U. S. 383, and the recent case of United States v. Union
Pacific Railway, ante, p. 61.
We are thus led to the conclusion that the defendants
did combine for two distinct purposes,-first, by and
through the instrumentality of the Temple Iron Company,

UNITED STATES v. READING CO.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

with the object of preventing the construction of an independent and competing line of railway into the anthracite region; and, second, by and through the instrumentality of the sixty-five per cent. contracts with the purpose
and design of controlling the sale of the independent
output at tide-water.
The acts and transactions which the bill avers to have
been committed by some of the defendants in furtherance
of the illegal plan and scheme of a general combination,
are these:
. a. The absorption in January, 1898, of the New York,
Susquehanna & Western Railroad, through the purchase
by the Erie Railroad of a large majority of its shares,
whereby two lines of competing railroad came under one
control and management.
* b. The acquisition in 1901 of a controlling majority of
the capital stock of the COntral Railroad of New Jersey
by the Reading Company, which then owned the entire
capital stock of the Philadelphia & Reading Railway
Company, and the Philadelphia & Reading Coal & Iron
Company, -"thereby uniting and bringing together under a
common head and source of control the said Philadelphia
& Reading Railway Company and Central Railroad Company of New Jersey, operating parallel and competitive
lines of railroad, and the said Philadelphia & Reading
Coal & Iron Company and Lehigh & Wilkes-Barre Coal
Company," theretofore owned or controlled by the Central
Railroad of New Jersey, thereby destroying competition
between former competing carriers and coal-producing
companies.
c. The absorption in 1899 by the Erie Railroad Company of the Pennsylvania Coal Company, thereby acquiring the 'stock control of the Erie & Wyoming Railroad
Company and of the -Delaware Valley & Kingston Railroad, thus defeating a projected construction of the last
named railroad.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

These were all minor combinations in which only some
of the defendants participated. The accomplishment of
these several subordinate transactions only completed one
or another of the several groups of carriers and coalproducing companies, which several groups were thereafter not only possessed of the power to compete with
every other group, but, as we have already seen, were
actually engaged in competing, one with another, prior
to the general combination through the Temple Iron
Company and the sixty-five per cent. contract scheme.
So far as this record shows not one of these transactions
was the result of any general combination between all of
the defendants and constituted no part of any such general combination. None of the defendants had any part
or lot in bringing them about except the particular combining companies.
It is true that the bill asks injunctions against the continuance of each of these minor combinations. But if,
as we conclude, they did not constitute any part of any
general plan or combination entered into by all of the
carrier companies, their separate consideration as independent violations of the act of Congress is not admissible
under the general frame of this bill. To treat the bill as
one seeking to apply the prohibition of the act of Congress
to each one of these independent combinations would
condemn the pleading as a plain misjoinder of parties and
of causes of suit, and a plain confession of multifariousness.
All of the defendants had a common interest in the defense
of the Temple Iron Company combination, and that of the
sixty-five per cent. contracts, because it was alleged that
all had joined therein. But all of the defendants did not
have a common interest' in the defense of these three
minor combinations, unless it appear that they were, as
charged, "steps," or acts and agreements in furtherance
of the general combination to which they were all parties.
This we find not to be the fact. If, therefore, we shall

UNITED STATES v. READING CO.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

treat the bill as broad enough to involve combinations
which were not steps or acts in furtherance of any general
combination, we shall overrule the objection of multifariousness made below and here, for we shall then maintain a bill setting up three separate and distinct causes of
action against the distinct groups of defendants, one
having no interest in or coimection with the other. The
grounds of each suit would be different and the. parties
defending different. See the discussion and cases cited
in Simpkins' Federal Equity Suit, pp. 290 et seq.
Having failed to show that these minor combinations
were acts in furtherance of the general scheme, or the acts
of the combiners in the two combinations condemned, we
are asked to deal with thra as separate illegal combinations by such of the defendants as participated. This the
court below declined to do, and we in this find no error.
As to the legality of the minor combinations, we therefore express no opinion. We affirm the action of the court
below in declining to enjoin them, because to construe the
bill as directed against them as independent combinations,
between some but not all of the principal defendants,
would make the pleading objectionably multifarious. We
therefore direct that the bill be dismissed, without prejudice, in so far as it seeks relief against the three. alleged
minor combinations.
The decree of the court below is affirmed as to the Temple
Iron Company combination. It is reversed as to the
sixty-five per cent. contracts, and the case will be remanded with direction to enter a decree cancelling each
of these contracts,and perpetuallyenjoining theirfurther
execution, and for such proceedings as are in conformity
with this opinion.
MR. JusTIcE DAY, MR. JusTIcE HUGHES and MR. JuSPITNEY did not participate in the consideration or decision of this case.
TICE

