OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

226 U. S.

to direct the imposition of the penalty if the result of our
conclusion that the Federal ground was frivolous be followed by an affirmance instead of an order of dismissal.
Because of the absolute coincidence between a dismissal
on account of the frivolous and unsubstantial character
of the Federal question relied upon and an affirmance
upon the same ground, we are of opinion that the statutory
authority to impose the penalty obtains in either case.
.In stating the reasoning which has led us to this conclusion we have not been unmindful of, although we have not
reviewed, a line of cases concerning the nature and extent
of the power to impose costs in the Case of a dismissal for"
want of jurisdiction. See Citizens' Bank v. Cannon, 164
U. S. 319, 323, and cases cited. We have not deemed it
necessary to do so because nothing in the reasoning of
those cases tends to affect the substantial identity which
exists between a decree of dismissal and one .of affirmance
where the ground upon which one is placed equally justi-'
fies either form of decree.
In consequence of the conclusion which we have reached
as above stated we direct the imposition of a penalty, in
addition to interest, of' five per cent. on the amount of the
judgment recovered below and the taxation of costs as
upon an affirmance.
Writ of error dismissed with damages; etc.

FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF PRINCETON,
-ILLINOIS v. LITTLEFIELD, TRUSTEE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 572. 'Submitted November 4, 1912.-Decided December 2, 1912.
The settled rule is that the concurrent action of two courts below upon
questions of fact will not be disturbed except in case of manifest error.

FIRST NATIONAL BANK v. LITTLEFIELD.
226 U..S.

111

Opinion of the Court.

In this case appellant being claimant below had the burden of proof,
and this court will not reverse the findingof both courts that the
burden was not sustained.
193 Fed. Rep. 24, affirmed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Thorndike Saunders for appellants.
Mr. Daniel P. Hays for appellee.
Memorandum opinion, by direction of the court, by
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE.

Albert 0. Brown and others, members of a firm known as
A. 0. Brown & Company, stock brokers in New York City,
were adjudicated bankrupts. The First National Bank
of Princeton and four other claimants petitioned to have
the receiver in bankruptcy return certain sums of money
to which they asserted ownership, because the amounts
claimed had been sent to the firm to buy shares of stock
for account of the claimants and the stock had never been
delivered to them. The special master to whom the matter was referred reported in favor of the claimants. The
District Court, however, disapproved the conclusion of
the master and rejected the claims. The Circuit Court of
Appeals reversed. 175 Fed. Rep. 769. It was held that
as the stock bought with the moneys of the claimants
and for their account belonged to them they were entitled
as owners, the stock. having been wrongfully converted
by the bankrupts, to take out of the bankrupt estate so
much of the avails of their ,wongfully converted stock as
they might be able to trace into the hands of the receiver.
Upon amended pleadings a further hearing was had before the special master, who reported against the claimants because it was found as a matter of fact that there
was a failure to trace any of the proceeds of the converted

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

226 U. S.

stock into the hands of the receiver. The report of the
master was confirmed by the District Court (189 Fed.
Rep. 432, 437), and the action of that court was in all
respects affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals (193
Fed. Rep. 24). This appeal was then taken, and the claim
of the Princeton Bank has been specially presented, under
an agreement that the decision as to that claim will govern
as to the others.
All the contentions relied upon in various forms simply
assert that the master and the two courts erred in their
appreciation of the facts. But the burden of proof was.
upon the claimant to establish its ownership of the fund,
a burden which it cannot in reason be said was sustained
in view of the concurrent adverse action of the master and
the courts below. Indeed as the settled rule is that the
concurrent action of two courts upon questions of fact
will not be disturbed except in a Case of manifest error, a
condition which we are of the opinion after an examination.of the record does not here obtain, it follows that the
judgment below must be and it is
Affirmed.

SELOVER, BATES AND COMPANY v. WALSH.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
MINNESOTA.
No. 22.

Submitted October 29, 1912.-Decided' December 2, 1912.

With the ruling of the state court as to the applicability of a state statute to a particular contract this court has nothing, to do. It is concerned only with the question of whether as so applied the law
violates the Federal Constitution.
The court may, through action upon, or constraint of, the person
within its jurisdiction, affect property in other States.
The obligation of a contract is the law under which it was made, even.
though it may affect lands in another State; and in an action which

