OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
226 U. S.

Syllabus.

If the act required any defense against the criticism
now under consideration, this expression would suffice.
It remains only to notice the second principal contention
of plaintiff in error, which is that the construction placed
upon the act of 1903 by the Court of Appeals is clearly
erroneous, and that the situation is such that this court
ought not to hold itself bound by that construction.
It is ingeniously argued that since the statute had never
been judicially construed until the decision of the Court
of Appeals in this case, and since that court (erroneously,
it is asserted) injected into the act by construction two
elements that are said not to be apparent from a literal
reading-to wit, that the statute applies only to stolen
property, and that the dealer need not ascertain the legal
right of the seller, but need only make diligent inquiry
to ascertain the same, the plaintiff in error is aggrieved
by what is called the "judicial amendment" of the statute.
Although not distinctly invoking the prohibition of
ex post facto laws, as contained in Art. I, ยง 10, cl. 1, of
the Federal Constitution, the argument, if it have any
basis, must be rested upon that prohibition.
It is sufficient to say that no such point appears to have
been raised in the court below, although it might have

been raised by an application for rehearing. Nor is any
such point covered by the assignments of error in this
court.
Judgment affirmed.
ZAKONAITE v. WOLF, JAILOR OF THE CITY OF
ST. LOUIS.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.

No. 53.

Argued November 14, 1912.-Decided December 2, 1912.

The evidence in this case, upon which the order of deportation of an
alieon the ground that she was a prostitute and wa8i found practic-

ZAKONAITE v. WOLF.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ing prostitution within three years after her entry into the United
States was based, being adequate to support the conclusions of fact
of the Secretary of Commerce and Labor, and there having been a
fair hearing,those findings are not subject to review by the courts.
The authority of Congress to prohibit aliens from coming within the
United States includes the authority to impose conditions upon the
performance of which the continued liberty of the alien to reside
within the country depends.
A proceeding to enforce regulations under which aliens may continue to
reside within the United States is not a criminal proceeding within
the meaning of the Fifth and Sixth Amendments.
Congress may properly devolve a proceeding to enforce regulations
under which aliens are permitted to remain within the United States
upon an executive department or subordinate officials thereof and
may make conclusive the findings of fact reached by such officials
after a sunmary hearing, if fair.
Section 3 of the act of February 20, 1907, 34 Stat. 898, c. 1134, providing for deportation of alien prostitutes within three years after entry
into the United States and -providing a summary proceeding for
determining the fact by the Secretary of Commerce and Labor, does
not violate either the Fifth or Sixth Amendment by depriving the
alien of her liberty without due process of law or by denying her a
jury trial.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. L. G. Pope, with whom Mr. Chas. F. Joy and
Mr. Henry B. Davis were on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Harr for appellee.

Memorandum opinion, by direction of the court, by
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY.

The appellant, having been arrested and held in custody under warrants of arrest and deportation issued by
the Acting Secretary of Commerce and Labor under the
Immigration Act of February 20, 1907, sought to be
discharged upon habeas corpus issued out of the DisVOL. ccxxvi-18

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

trict Court, and, that court having upon hearing ordered the dismissal of the writ, she prosecutes this ap:peal.
From the return and supplemental return of the respondent it appears that the appellant is an alien and that
as the result of a hearing and re-hearing conducted in
compliance with Rfile 35, paragraph E of the Rules and
Regulations of the Department of Commerce and Labor,

she was found to be in the United States in violation of
ยง 3 of the act referred to, and subject to deportation, in
that she was a prostitute, and had been found practicing
prostitution within three -years after her entry into the
.United States.
In her behalf it was contended in the court below, and
is here contended, first, that there was no evidence before
the Secretary of Commerce and Labor sufficient to warrant
the findings of fact upon which the order of deportation
was based; and, secondly, that ยง 3 of the act of February 20, 1907 (34 Stat. 898, 899, c. 1134), which pr'ovides that "any alien woman or girl who shall be found
an inmate of a house of prostitution or practicing prostitution, at any time within three years after she shall have
entered the United States, shall be deemed to be unlawfully within the United States, and shall be deported as
provided by sections twenty and twenty-one of this
Act,"-is unconstitutional because violative of the guaranties that no person shall be deprived of life, liberty or
property without due process of law, and that in all

criminal prosecutions the accused shall enjoy the right to
a speedy and public trial b an impartial jury oi the State
and district wherein the crime shall have been committed, as contained in the Fifth and Sixth Amendments.
As to the first point, an examination of the evidence
upon which the order of deportation was based convinces

us that it was adequate to support the Secretary's con-

ZAKONAI'YE v. WOLF.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

elusion of fact. That being, so, and the appellant having
had a fair hearing, the findings are not subject to review
by 'the courts.
With respect to the second point little more need be
said. It is entirely settled that the authority of Congress
to prohibit alien from coming within the United States
and to regulate their coming includes authority to impose
conditions upon the performance of which the continued
liberty of the alienl to -reside within the bounds 'of this
country may be made to depend; that a proceeding to
enforce such regulations is not a criminal prosecution
within the meaning of the 'Fifth and Sixth Amendments;
that such an inquiry may be, properly devolved upon/
an executive department or subordinate officials thereof,
and that the findings of fact reached by such officials,
after a fair though summary hearing, may constitutionally
be made conclusive, as they are made by the provisions
of the act in question. Fong Yue Tng v. United States,
149 U. S. 698. 730; United- 3tates v. Zucker, 161 U. S. 475,
481; .Wong Wing v. United States, 163 U. S. 228, 237;
Turner v. Williams, 194 U. S. ,279, 289; Chin, Yow v.
United States, 208 U. S.8, 11.; Tang Tun v. Edsell, 223
U. S.673, 675; Low Wah Suey v. Backus, 225 U. S.460,
468.
The appellant raises some other constitutional objections, viz.: that the Immigration Act vests iA the Federal
authorities the power to try an immigrant for 6 violation
of the penal laws of the Stat 6f w hich he has become a
resident, -and so interferes with the police powers of the
State; that the act vests judicial powers in an executive,
branch of, the Government; that it violates the constitu-tional guaranty of the privilege of the writ of habzeas
corpus, and, the like. These are without substance, and
,require no discussion.

Final order affirmed.,

