PLUMLEY v. UNITED STATES.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

PLUMLEY v. UNITED STATES.
UNITED STATES v. PLUMLEY.
APPEALS FROM, THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

Nos. 35, 36. Argued December 9.1912.-Decided January 6, 1913.
Where a contract for Government work provides that in case of discrepancies between the specifications and the contract, the matter
shall be referred to the Secretary of the Department making the contract, and thecontractor agrees to abide by his decision in the premises, the construction given by the Secretary and his decision is final
and conclusive.
Where a contract for Government work provides that in every instance
changes must be made by a prescribed method and approved by the
Secretary, the contractor cannot recover for extras not ordered in
the manner prescribed; and this ruleholds even in a hard case where,
as in this instance, the work was extra and of value.
Where the contractor fails to notify the Secretary of the cause of delay
on the part of the Government in the manner prescribed by the
contract and thus enable the Secretary to remove the cause of delay,
the contractor cannot recover for the delay caused.
43 Ct. Cl. 266, reversed in part.
THE facts, which involve the construction of a contract
for government work, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. George A. King, with whom Mr. William B. King
was on the brief, for appellant in No. 35, aid appellee in
No. 36.
Mr. William W. Scott, with whom Mr. Assistant Attorney GeneralJohn Q. Thompson was on the brief, for the
United States.
MR. JUSTICE LAMAR

delivered the opinion of the court.

In October, 1888, P. H. McLaughlin & Company contracted to build the Naval Observatory in Washington
VOL. Ccxxvi-35

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

for $307,811. After most of the work had been done the
contract was forfeited for failure to make satisfactory
progress. 37 Ct. Cl. 150. The Government advertised for
bids to complete the work. After examining the contract
and documents Plumley agreed to complete the building
in accordance with the McLaughlin contract, and "duly
authorized changes" by June 1st, 1892, for the sum of
$25,840. Having finished the work, he sued the Government for damages by delay and for extra work amounting
to $12,813. The court rendered judgment in his favor for
$502 insurance paid during the period he was delayed in
finishing the work. All of the other items were disallowed.
Both parties appealed. 43 Ct. Cl. 266 and see 45 Ct. Cl.
185.
1. The largest item is a claim for extra compensation for installing a ventilator system, which McLaughlin
agreed to do for a given sum. The proposed change and
this offer were submitted by the architect to the Bureau
of Equipment with the statement that if approved McLaughlin would enter into a formal written contract to do
the work for the prices named. The plans and bid were
approved. McLaughlin was directed to proceed, and did
some work thereon. Later. his contract was forfeited.
Plumley (and his partner, Davis, a former member of
McLaughlin & Company) knew these facts at the time the
bid was made to complete the work, but when required
to build the ventilating system Plumley insisted that it
was not within McLaughlin's original contract and not a
"duly authorized change" because no written contract
had been signed by both parties, as required by the terms
of the contract: This contention was rejected by the
architect and, on appeal, by the Secretary of the Navy.
The Court of Claims at first sustained this position but on
a rehearing held that Plumley was estopped from claiming
that the change had not been duly authorized and, under
his contract to complete the work, was bound to finish

PLUMLEY v. UNITED STATES.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

what McLaughlin had begun. Beyond this the contract
provided that if there was any discrepancy between plans
and specifications or between the contract of McLaughlin
and the contract of Plumley the matter should be referred
to the Secretary, .Plumley agreeing "to abide by his decision in the premises." The Secretary decided against
him and under the circumstances his construction is binding on the contractor.
2. This same provision prevents a recovery for the
drain pipe included in the original contract. For some
reason, not stated, it appears that McLaughlin was requested to make a bid for laying drain pipe. It was accepted and then countermanded. Plumley was likewise
requested to make a bid, which was accepted and then
countermanded. When required to lay the pipe he demanded extra compensation, but his appeal was overruled
by the Secretary, possibly for the reason suggested in
argument, that asking a bid did not relieve Plumley from
the obligation to furnish labor and material actually included in the contract. What facts were submitted to
the Secretary, is not in this record, but his ruling is conclusive, in view of Plumley's agreement to abide by his
decision.
-3. The other items for extra work were properly disallowed. The contract provided that changes increasing
or diminishing the cost must be agreed on in writing by
the contractor and the architect, with a statement of the
price of the substituted material and work. Additional
precautions were required if the cost exceeded $500. In
every instance it was necessary that the change should
be approved by the Secretary. There was a total failure
to comply with these provisions, and though it may be a
hard case, since the court found that the work was in
fact extra and of considerable value, yet Plumley cannot
recover for that which, though extra, was not ordered by
the officer and in the manner required by the contract.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.

Syllabus.

226 U. S.

Rev. Stat., ยง 3744; Hawkins v. United States, 96 U. S. 689;
Ripley v. United States, 223 U. S. 695; United States v. McMullen, 222 U. S. 460.
4. The Government appeals from so much of the judgment as gave Plumley a judgment for damages caused by
delay. The court found that Plumley was delayed by
the failure to have the architect on hand promptly for
decision pertaining to the work, while it also found that
the Secretary extended the time for the reason that Plumley's failure to finish was on account of circumstances
beyond the contractor's control. But Pluriley at the
time of the occurrence of the delay did not notify the
Secretary of the facts nor of .the extent to which the work
would be delayed. The contract required that such
notice. should be given to the Secretary when the delay
occurred, evidently for the purpose of informing the Department and enabling it, at the time, to remove the
cause of the delay. It operated to prevent claims for
damage and for failure to comply with this requirement
of the contract (United States v. Gleason, 175 U. S. 588);
the plaintiff is not entitled to recover. The judgment in
that respect must be reversed, and is, otherwise,
Affirmed.

BUNKER HILL & SULLIVAN MINING AND CONCENTRATING COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 101.

Submitted December 17, 1912.-Decided January 6, 1913.

Until it is finally determined that a homestead entry is void because
made on mineral land open to mining location une r the act of
June 3, 1878, the land is segregated from the public domain and the
entryman cannot cut timber thereon in violation of the law applicable to homestead entries.

