OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

MILLER v. GUASTI.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.

No. 478. Submitted October 15, 1912.-Decided December 2, 1912.
A debt of the bankrupt not properly scheduled as required by ยง 7 of
the Bankruptcy Act is not barred by the discharge if the creditors
had4 no notice or actual knowledge of the proceeding.
A finding by the Circuit Court of Appeals that the bankrupt had actual

knowledge of the residence and address of the creditor is binding oi
this court.
203 N. Y. 259, affirmed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Albert M. Yuzzolino for defendants in error, in support of a motion to affirm the judgment.
Mr: William C. Rosenberg for plaintiff in error, in opposition thereto.
Memorandum opinion, by direction of the court, by
MR. JUSTIcE DAY.

Tobias Miller, plaintiff in error herein, obtained a discharge in bankruptcy in the District Court of the United
States for the Southern District of New York. Among his
liabilities was a judgment rendered in the City Court .of
New York April 16, 1895, in favor of the defendants in
error, Guasti and Bernard. Miller applied at a Special
Term of the Supreme Court of the County of New York
for an order cancelling the judgment under ยง 1268 of the
Code of Civil Procedure because of the discharge in bankruptcy. The Supreme Court held that he was not entitled to have the judgment cancelled. The order was
affirmed by the Appellate Division and its order was
affirmed by the Court of Appeals. 203 N. Y. 259. That
order being entered in the Supreme Court, this writ of
error was sued. out. A motion is made here to affirm the
judgment of the state court.

MILLER z,. GUASTI.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

From the facts found in the Court of Appeals it appears
that Miller in his bankruptcy schedules set forth that the
residence and occupation of Guasti and Bernard, holders
of the judgment, were "Unknown.-California."
The
court further found that Guasti and Bernard knew nothing of the proceedings in bankruptcy until long after the
discharge, and first learned of them August 23, 1910. The
Court of Appeals further found that the affidavits filed
sustained the finding of the Special Term that Miller had
actual knowledge of the residence and postoffice address of
Guasti and Bernard. Such finding of fact is binding upon
this court, and is moreover amply sustained by the record.
The Bankruptcy Act provides, ยง 17:
"A discharge in bankruptcy shall release a bankrupt
from all of 'his provable debts, except such as .
have not been duly scheduled in time for proof and allowance, with the name of the creditor if known to the
bankrupt, unless such creditor had notice or actual
knowledge of the proceedings in bankruptcy."
Section 7 of the Bankruptcy Act requires a bankrupt
to file in court a schedule made under oath containing,
among other things, "a list, of his creditors, showing their
residences, if known, if unknown, that fact to be stated,"
etc. It therefore appears that the Bankruptcy Act does
not extend the protection of the discharge to debts not
duly scheduled in time for proof and allowance.
In view of the facts found, it is manifest that the debt
of Guasti and Bernard was not scheduled as it should have
been in. order to -make the discharge operative as to it.
Their residence, though found to be known, was not
stated as required by the act, and the creditor did not
have actual knowledge of the bankruptcy proceedings
until long after their termination. We think the correctness of the judgment is so plain as not to require further
argument.
Affirmed.

