OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

UBEDA v. ZIALCITA.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE
ISLANDS.

No. 77.

Submitted December 6, 1912.-Decided January 6, 1913.

One, whose registered trade-mark is manifestly an imitation of an
earlier but unregistered trade-mark, cannot restrain a third party
from using it.
The Philippine Trade-mark Act expres.ly denies the right of one fraudulently using a trade-mark to recover.
Section 13 of the Treaty with Spain of .1898, protecting industrial property in the ceded territory, will not be construed a. contravening
principles of morality and fairness and as protecting a trade-mark
fraudulently registered prior to the treaty.
A statute which introduces no new rule is not retrospective.
Even if a trade-mark be not registered, if it be well known, it is an imposition on the public to use an imitation of it.
Even if a statute makes a certificate of trade-mark conclusive, it must
be taken subject to the general principle of law embodied in the statute to the effect that trade-marks fraudulently adopted are not
protected.
Where it does not clearly appear to the contrary, this court will assume
that the same principles of honesty and fairness prevail in Spain as
in our own law.
13 Phil. Rep. 11, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the right to use a trade-mark
in the Philippine Islands, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. A. B. Browne, Mr. Alexander Britton, Mr. Evans
Browne and Mr. W. A. Kincaid for appellant.
No appearance for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE

HOLMES delivered the opinion of the

court.
The plaintiff and appellant is a manufacturer of gin
and sues to restrain the use of a trade-mark like his own

UBEDA v. ZIALCITA.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and to recover double damages. The trade-mark consists
of two concentric circles having the words Ginebra de
Tres Campanas and the plaintiff's name between them,
and in the centre a device of three bells (Tres Campanas)
connected at the top by a ribbon and some ears of grain,
with the words Extra Superior under the mouth of the
bells. The plaintiff's autograph is reproduced across the
middle of the circular space and the bells. More detail
is unnecessary; but it may be mentioned that the plaintiff claims title under a grant from the Governor General
dated December 16, 1898, and that the mark covered
by the alleged grant had underneath the circles the word
Amberes (Antwerp), indicating imported gin, while that
now used has Manila in the same place- and is applied
to gin made in the Philippines.
It may be assumed that the defendant's design has a
deceptive resemblance to the plaintiff's notwithstanding
a change from Tres Campanas to Dos Campanas and the
substitution of the defendant's autograph for the plaintiff's. And whether the plaintiff has a title to the mark
now used or not it also may be assumed that he might recover under the Philippine act of March 6, 1903, No. 166,
§ 4; Compiled Acts, p. 180, § 58, but for the following
facts, on which the defendant had judgment in both courts
below.
The plaintiff's trade-mark in its turn closely imitates
in most particulars a much earlier and widely known
trade-mark of Van Den Bergh & Co., of -Antwerp. It is
true that in the latter there is but one bell, and that the
title correspondingly is Ginebra' de la Campana, but the
intent to get the'benefit of the Van Den Bergh device is
too obvious to be doubted. We do not go into the particulars of the different registrations, &c., of this latter,
beginning with a Spanish certificate to the Antwerp firm
in 1873. For although the plaintiff elaborately argues
that under the Spanish regime trade-mark rights could be

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

acquired only by statutory registered grant; that Van
Den Bergh & Co. never acquired any such rights in the
Philippines; that if they did they lost them by failing to
register or lapse of time, and that he was free to get a
registered title as against any certificate of theirs; those
questions are immaterial in this case. With or without
right the earlier trade-mark was in widespread use and
well known, and the obvious intent and necessary effect
of imitating it was to steal some of the good will attaching
to it and to defraud the public. The courts below found
the fraud and that both plaintiff's and defendant's marks
were nothing more than variations upon the earlier mark.
In such a case the Philippine act denies the plaintiff's
right to recover. Act No. 666, § 9. See § 12, and No. 744,
§ 4. Compiled Acts, §§ 63, 66. It is said that to apply
the rule there laid down would be giving a retrospective
effect to § 9 as against the alleged Spanish grant of December 16, 1898, to the plaintiff, contrary to general
principles of interpretation and to Article 13 of the Treaty
of Paris, April 11, 1899, providing that the rights of property secured by copyrights and patents shall continue to
be respected. But the treaty, if applicable, cannot be
supposed to have been intended to contravene the principle of § 9, which only codifies common morality and
fairness. The section is not retrospective in any sense,
for it introduces no new rule. See Manhattan Medicine
Co. v. Wood, 108 U. S. 218. Imposition on the public
is not a ground on which the plaintiff can come into court,
but it is a very good ground for keeping him out of it.
Even if Van Den Bergh & Co. had no registered title
and no such other rights under Spanish colonial law as
they have under Act No. 666, § 4, the imposition on the
public was still there and though not a matter of which
the defendant could complain, it was a matter to which
he could refer when the plaintiff sought to exclude him
from doing just what the plaintiff had done himself. This

PITTSBURG STEEL CO. v. BALTIMORE EQ. SOC. 455
226 U. S.

Syllabus.

certainly would have been our law, and we should assume, if material, that the same doctrine would have
prevailed in Spain, in the absence of the clearest proof
to the contrary, which we do not find in the record or the
brief.
What we have said with reference to the plaintiff's
claim under the Treaty applies in substance to his argument that by § 14 of Act No. 166 the Spanish certificate.
is conclusive evidence of the plaintiff's title. That section must be taken to be subject to general principles of
law embodied in other sections to which we have referred.
If there was any claim intended to be put forward on
the ground of unfair competition, the prayers of the complaint and the plaintiff's testimony show that such claim
depended fundamentally on the alleged infringement of
trade-mark. Any matters of fact in dispute were sufficiently disposed of by the concurrent findings of the
courts below.
Judgment affirmed.

PITTSBURG STEEL COMPANY v. BALTIMORE
EQUITABLE SOCIETY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
MARYLAND.
No. 103.

Argued December 18, 19, 1912.-Decided January 6, 1913.

A state statute changing a remedy for enforcing contract rights does
not impair the contract if it gives a more efficacious, remedy than
existed before or does not impair it so materially as to affect the
creditor's rights.
Where, as in this case, this court cannot say that the state court wai
wrong in holding the new remedy under a state statute to be more
efficacious than the former remedy for enforcing claims of creditors

