ANDERSON v. SMITH.
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

226 U. S.

allowed. Nothing could more aptly illustrate the necessity
for this conclusion than by directing attention to the result
which would inevitably follow from taking another view.
Thus it may not be doubted that the express object of the
Personnel Act was to give a right of retirement for long and
distinguished services, for wounds contracted in the course
of the service as distinguished from the ordinary right to
retire. And yet if the construction of the statute now
urged were to be upheld it would follow that an assimilatioh was made by the Personnel Act not only between the
pay of officers on the active list of the Navy and those of
the Army, but also between officers of the Navy themselves by putting on a parity as to retirement and retired
pay all officers of the Navy, irrespective of the meritorious
or non-meritorious character of their services and despite
the clear distinction in that regard expressly provided for
by the terms of the Personnel Act.
Affirmed.

ANDERSON, ADMIN]ISTRATRIX, v. SMITH.
ERROR TO TH

COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 91.

Argued December 17, 1912.-Decided January 6, 1913.

The evidence in this case not shewing that the injury suffered by the
servant was caused by failure of the master to provide a safe place
or proper appliances, the trial court rightly took the case from the
jury, and directed a verdict for defendant.
35 App. D. C. 93, affirmed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Leonard J. Mather, with whom Mr. John Doyle
Carmody, was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

Mr. H. Prescott Gatley, with whom Mr. Samuel Maddox
and Mr. Barry Mohun were on the brief, for defendant in
error.
Memorandum opinion, by direction of the court, by
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE.

Charles P. Anderson was one of :several workmen engaged in-tearing down an old building in Georgetown in
the District of Columbia. The building had been demolished as far as the first floor, and it became necessary to
take down a large doorframe. While Anderson was engaged with others in that work the frame fell upon him
and caused injuries from which he died. An administratrix was appointed and brought this action against the
employer of Anderson to recover damages, basing the
right of action upon alleged negligence in failing "to provide a reasonably fit, proper and safe place" for Anderson
to work, and also in failing "to furnish reasonably fit and
proper machinery, reasonable adequate and sufficient
tackle or implements, or a reasonably safe and proper
number of men for the removal of such doorframe." At
the trial, on the close of the evidence for the plaintiff,
the court being of opinion that there was an utter failure
of the proof to sustain the allegations of negligence, directed the jury to return a verdict for the defendant, and
the judgment entered on the verdict was affirmed by the
Court of Appeals of the District. (35 App. D. C. 93.)
This writ of error was then prosecuted.
Without attempting to state the evidence, we think
there is no room whatever for the contention that the
court below erred in affirming the action of the trial court
in taking the case from the jury. We say this because,
adapting the view most favorable to the plaintiff of the
evidence, it affords not even a shadow of ground for con-

ILL. CENT. R. R. v. HENI)ERSON ELEVATOR CO. 441
226 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

cluding that the injury suffered was caused by the failure
of-the master to perform the positive duty resting on him
to exercise reasonable care to provide a safe place for the
work or proper appliances.
Affirmed.

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY v
HENDERSON ELEVATOR COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
KENTUCKY.
No. 105.

Argued December 1.9, 1912.-Decided January 6, 1913.

Failure to post rates does not estop the carrier from collecting the
published tariff rate notwithstanding a lower rate may have been

quoted to the shipper. Kansas City Southern Ry. Co. v. Albers Commission Co., 223 U. S. 573.
138 Kentucky, 220, reversed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Edmund F. Trabue, with whom Mr. Blewett Lee,
was on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
The decision below restores the evil of rebates. Its
effect is to give the shipper a lower rate than other shippers
who had to pay for their transportation according to the
published rates. It force:s the carrier to pay the shipper
a rebate from the lawful. rate. If the judgment below
can stand, an effective way has at last been found to
guarantee shippers against future changes of railroad

rates, and the decision in Armour v. United States, 209
U. S. 56, approved in Phila. &c. Co. v. Schubert, 224 U. S.
603, 615, becomes a dead letter. Texas & Pacific Ry. Co.
v. Mugg, 202 U. S. 242, controls this case.

