LOUISIANA NAV. CO., v.OYSTER COMMISSION.
226 U. S.

09

Counsel for Parties.

LOUISIANA NAVIGATION COMPANY. LIMITED,
v. OYSTER COMMISSION OF LOUISIANA.ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
LOUISIANA.

No. 40. Argued November 6, 1912.-Decided December 2, 1912.
This court cannot be called upon to review the action of the state court
by piecemeal, and even if the judgment does finally dispose of some
elements of the controversy, urdess it is final on its face as to the
entire controversy this court will not review it.
On the question of finality the form of the judgment is controlling,
and that form cannot be disregarded in order to ascertain whether
the judgment is a final one according to state law.
This court has the power and duty when reviewing the final judgment
of a state court to pass on all Federal controversies in the cause
irrespective of how far such questions were concluded by the state
law during the litigation and before a final judgment reviewable
here was rendered.
The dismissal of the writ of error For want of finality of the judgment
in this case is on the presumption that the case otherwise involves
Federal questions reviewable by this court.
Writ of error to review, 125 Louisiana, 740, dismissed.

THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court
of writs of error to state courts, and what constitutes a

final judgment reviewable by this court, are stated in the
opinion.

Mr. Thomas Gilmore and Mr. E. N. Pugh, with whom
Mr. J. C. Gilmore was on the brief, for plaintiffs in
error.
Mr. Rufin G. Pleasant, Attorney General of the State
of Louisiana, filed a brief for defendant in error, Conserva-

tion Commission of Louisiana.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U.S.

Mr. John Dymond, Jr., filed a b!,
1 f for defendants in
error, E. C. Joullian Canning_.Co-pany and Dunbars,
Lopez & Dukate Co.
MR; CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of the
court.

The Supreme Court of Louisiana in this case reviewed
the judgment of a trial court which dismissed the petition
of the plaintiff because it stated no cause of action. The
plaintiff in error here was plaintiff in the trial court and
appellant in the court below. The suit was based on an
alleged right to recover damages for slander of the title
of plaintiff to described lands. Under the law of Louisiana,
for the purpose of passing upon the exception of no cause
of action, the case in substance became one petitory in its
character-that is, one to try title to land. Treating the
action as of that nature, the court below elaborately reviewed the averments of the petition and expressed the
opinion that in some respects a cause of action was stated
-that is, that there was allegation of title as to some of
the land, and that there was no title alleged to other of
the land inyolved. The court concluded as follows (125
Louisiana, 741, 755):
"We think, therefore, that plaintiff should be again
afforded an opportunity to amend its petition by setting
forth, specifically, the particular places, or portions of its

property, upon which the alleged trespass has been committed, together with the time and manner of-the trespass-."

The juidgment Was as follows:
"It is ordered, adjudged, and decreed that the judgment
appealei from be set aside, and-that this case be remanded
to the district court, to be.there proceeded with in accordance with the views expressed in this opinion .
Upon the theory that Federal questions were involved

LOUISIANA 'AV. CO. . oYSTER COMMISSION. 101
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

within the cognizance of this court this writ of error to
the judgment thus rendered was sued out. But as the
judgment of the court below on its face is not a final one,
it follows that a motion to dismiss must prevail. Haseltine v. Bank, 183 U. 5. 130; Schlosser v. Hemphill, 198
U. S. 173; Missouri &c. Ry. Co. v. Olathe, 222 U. S. 185.
The contention, however, is that the judgment below is
final for the purpose of review by this court, because when
the opinion of'the Supreme Court of Louisiana is carefully
weighed it will be found that tiiat court practically finally.
disposed adversely to the title of the plaintiff of the substantial part of the lands involved in the suit and hence
that the court in remanding the cause for further proceedings did so only as to other lands. But conceding this to
be true, it does not justify the claim based on it. In the
first place it is settled that this court may not be called
upon to review by piecemeal the action of a state court
which otherwise would be: within its jurisdiction, and in
the second place the rule established by the authorities
to which we have referred is that on the question of finality
the form of the judgment is controlling, and hence that
this court cannot for the purpose of determining whether
its reviewing power exists be called upon to disregard the
form of the judgment in order to ascertain whether a
judgment which is in form not final might by applying
the state law be treated as final in character. Indeed it
has been pointed out that the confusion and contradiction
which inevitably arose from resorting to the state law for
the purpose of converting a judgment not on its face
final into one final in character was the dominating reason
leading to the establishment of the principle that the
form of the judgment was controlling for the purpose of
ascertaining its finality. Norfolk Turnpike Co. v. Virginia,
225 U. S.264, 268.
The suggestion that the right to review by this court
will be lost if it does not disregard the. form of the judg-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.

102

Syllabus.

226 U. S.

ment and review the action of the court below concerning
the title to land as to which the court below expressed
opinions which as the law of the case will hereafter be
binding upon it and upon other courts of the State of
Louisiana, is without merit. We say this because the
contention is but illustrative of the misconception which
the argument involves which we have already pointed
out. The rule which excludes the right to review questions arising in a cause depending in a state court until a
final judgment is rendered by such court involves as a
necessary correlative the power and the duty in this court
when a final judgment in form is rendered and the cause
is brought here for review to consider and pass upon all
the Federal controversies in the cause irrespective of how
far it may be that by the state law such questions were
concluded during the litigation and before a final judgment
susceptible of review here was rendered. Chesapeake &
Ohio Ry. Co. v. McCabe, 213 U. S. 20.7, 214.
Of course, for the purpose of disposing of the motion to
dismiss upon the ground of the want of finality of the
judgment we have taken it for granted for the sake of
the argument that the case otherwise involved Federal
questions within our power to review.
Dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

DEMING v. CARLISLE PACKING COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
WASHINGTON.

No. 511.

Submitted November 4, 1912.-Decided December 2, 1912.

Even though the record may present in form a Federal question the
writ of error will be dismissed if it plainly appear that the Federal
question is so unsubstantial and devoid of merit as to be frivolous.
In this case the only Federal question was based on the refusal c f

