OCTOBER TERM, 1912.

Syllabus.

226 U. S.

Rev. Stat., ยง 3744; Hawkins v. United States, 96 U. S. 689;
Ripley v. United States, 223 U. S. 695; United States v. McMullen, 222 U. S. 460.
4. The Government appeals from so much of the judgment as gave Plumley a judgment for damages caused by
delay. The court found that Plumley was delayed by
the failure to have the architect on hand promptly for
decision pertaining to the work, while it also found that
the Secretary extended the time for the reason that Plumley's failure to finish was on account of circumstances
beyond the contractor's control. But Pluriley at the
time of the occurrence of the delay did not notify the
Secretary of the facts nor of .the extent to which the work
would be delayed. The contract required that such
notice. should be given to the Secretary when the delay
occurred, evidently for the purpose of informing the Department and enabling it, at the time, to remove the
cause of the delay. It operated to prevent claims for
damage and for failure to comply with this requirement
of the contract (United States v. Gleason, 175 U. S. 588);
the plaintiff is not entitled to recover. The judgment in
that respect must be reversed, and is, otherwise,
Affirmed.

BUNKER HILL & SULLIVAN MINING AND CONCENTRATING COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 101.

Submitted December 17, 1912.-Decided January 6, 1913.

Until it is finally determined that a homestead entry is void because
made on mineral land open to mining location une r the act of
June 3, 1878, the land is segregated from the public domain and the
entryman cannot cut timber thereon in violation of the law applicable to homestead entries.

BUNKER HILL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

An entryman claiming rights of a homesteader is estopped from defending against violations of the law on the ground that under another statute the land is not open to homestead entry.
One buying from an entryman lumber cut in violation of law from the
homestead does so with notice and is liable for the timber unlawfully removed by the entryman.
178 Fed. Rep. 914, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the rights of a homesteader to
cut timber on the land entered and the effect of the entry
as segregating the land from the public domain, are stated
in the opinion.
Mr. Myron A. Folsom for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Knaebel for the United
States.
MR. JusTICE L.AmA delivered the opinion of the court.
In 1903 Messenger made a homestead entry in the
Cceur D'Alene Land District. He claimed to have entered
in good faith and testified that he lived on the land with
his family for some time. While thus in possession he cut
m'any of the trees into stulls, which with the cordwood he
sold to the Bunker Hill Company. In 1905 he abandoned
the land and the Government brought suit against the
Mining Company and recovered judgment for the value
of the timber in its improved state. 178 Fed. Rep. 914.
In this court, plaintiff in error claims that the land not
being suited for agricultural purposes, could not be entered
as a homestead (Rev. Stat., ยง 2303), but being mineral land
in fact was open to mining location and subject to the
provisions of the act of June 3, 1878, 20 Stat. 88, c. 150,
which authorizes any citizen to "enter upon public lands,
being mineral lands," open to mineral entry in order to cut
timber therefrom for mining purposes. It argues that the

OCTOBER

ERM, 1912.

Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

homestead entry was void and that any citizen, Messenger
included, could treat the land as public and cut the timber
for mining purposes. It offered evidence tending to sustain
its contention as to the character of the land, and excepts
to the court's ruling that Messenger and his vendee were
estopped from making such claim.
The statute on which the Mining Company relies, applies only to public lands, while this was no longer public
in the full sense, although the title remained in the Government which could have cancelled Messenger's entry
on proof that it was valuable for mineral purposes. Deffeback v. Hawke, 115 U. S. 392. But until some such
action bythe United States, Messenger's entry segregated
the land from the public domain and made it so far private
as to withdraw it from the operation of the law permitting
other citizens to locate mines or cut timber on public
mineral land. Hastings & D. R. Co. v. Whitney, 132 U., S.
537; Shiver v. United States, 159 U. S. 491, 495. Until his
claim was Cancelled Messenger was entitled to exclude
others from the quarter-section. And as they would
have been estopped, as against him,, from denying that
he was lawfully in possession of it as a homestead, so was
he estopped from denying that it was a homestead when
sued for cutting timber in violation of the law applicable
thereto. He could not claim the rights of a homesteader
in land intended for settlement and cultivation (Rev.
Stat., ยง 2290) and at the same time defend under another
statute which related to public land valuable for mineral.
purposes. The Mining Company bought with notice that
Messenger was a trespasser, and is liab!e for the timber
unlawfully removed by its vendor.
Affirmed.

