BEACH v. UNITED STATES..
226 U. S.

. 243.

Syllabus.

BEACH v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF 'CLAIMS.
No. 7. Argued October 30, 1912.-Decided December 2, 1912.
Recitalsby the Court of Claims of the documents upon which the claimant's case alone can rest with a history of the transaction and an express finding that the evidence does not establish the transfer to the
Government of that for which claimant demands compensation,
with negative findings of claimant's title, are sufficient findings of the
ultimate facts to colform to the rules.
Whether claimant's claim rests upon an express or an implied purchase,
by an officer of the Government, a lack of power on the part of that
,officer is a fundamental objection.
The provision in the Post Office Appropriation Act of July 13, 1892, 27
Stat. 145, c. 165, authorizing the Postmaster General to examine
into transportation of mail.by pneumatic tubes did not authorize
the purchase of any apparatus or patents, and all parties including
claimant were notified of this by the Postmaster General.
Under no other statutes enacted prior to the inception of the claimant's demand was the Postmaster General authorized to purchase or
contract for apparatus or patents for pneumatic tubes.
The ietention without express rejection of a proposal in answer to an
advertisement of the Postmaster General which expressly states that
the proposals are for investigation and estimate and that the Postmaster, General has no authority to- contract for expenditure of
money does not constitute a contract either express or implied.
A proposal to sell to an officer of the United States that purports to be
an assignment in prosenti but which is not in form or substance an
assignment and which expressly states that it shall not be binding on
the proposer unless accepted by that officer before a specified date,
does not become a contract express or implied because of the nonaction by that officer on the proposal.
The retention by the officer of the United States without rejection of a
proposal, which contains four different propositions of sale of the
same article, only one of which could be accepted, cannot be treated
as an acceptance of any one of 'the propositions.
*He who is without'authorityto bind his principal by express contract
cannot be held to have done so by implication; and the want of au-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Statement of the Case.

226 U. S.

thority on the part of the officer of the United States to whom
delivery is claimed is fatal to the establishment of an implied contract.
In this case one claiming to have sold patents for pneumatic mail
tubes'to the Postmaster General having failed to show any use of his
devices or inventions by the Government, or that any devices or
inventions used were those covered by his patents, the Court of
Claims rightly dismissed his petition.
41 Ct. Cls. 110, affirmed.

THIS is an appeal from a judgment of the Court of
Claims dismissing the petition of claimant (now appellant)
whereby he sought to recover the sum, of twenty millions
of dollars for certain inventions and letters patent pertaining to pneumatic transportation alleged to have been
sold and transferred by him to the United States in the
year 1893, by agreement, express or implied, made between the claimant and the Postmaster-General. 41 Ct.
of Claims, 110.
The following is a sufficient outline of the findings of factin that court:
Prior to July 26, 1892, the claimant, James W. Beach,
had been granted certain letters patent for inVentions or
improvements relating to pneumatic transportation, to
wit, letters patent No. 267,318, dated November 14, 1882,
and letters patent No. 444,038, dated January 6, 1891,
the object being to provide a continuous current of air
moving at high velocity through a tube or other conduit,
and thereby to transport the mails and all suitable commodities through such tube or conduit. Ten prior patents
had been issued to other parties by the United States
Patent Office for original and new and useful improvements in pneumatic conveyors or devices for the transmission of letters, messages and small packages through
small pipes, the first of which patents was issued as early
as the year 1864. Pursuant to the authority of ยง 6 of the
post-office appropriation act of July 13, 1892 (27 Stat.

BEACH v. UNITED STATES.
226 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

145, c. 165), Hon. John Wanamaker, then PostmasterGeneral, caused the following advertisement to be published in several newspapers:
"Mail Service by Pneumatic Tubes or Other Systems.

At

t

'PosSiOFFIcE DEPARTMENT,
"WASHIN oN, D. C., July 26, 1892.

Aiithority is given the Postmaster-General by the provisions of the act making appropriations for the service of
the PostOffice Department, approved July 13, 1892, 'to
examine into the subject of a more rapid dispatch of mail
matter ,between large cities and postoffice stations and
transportation terminals located in large cities by means
of pneumatic tubes or other systems,' with the view of ascertaining the cost and adyantages of the same.
"Acting upon this authority, I hereby give notice to all
persons who are the inventors, assignees, or otherwise
owners of any pneumatic tube or other device suitable for
and adapted to said service to present in writing, under
seal, on or before Thursday, the 8th day of September,
1892, addressed to the 'Postmaster-General, Washington,
D. C.,' afid marked 'Rapid Dispatch of Mails,! a full description of such tube or device, together with a statement
of the evidence of title to or ownership of the same, which
evidence may subsequently at any time be required by the
Postmaster-General. Said description must state the kind
and quality of motive power used in operating the same;
the method of its application; the capacity of the tube or

device, and offer to submit a test; the precise place and
terminals where it is proposed to conduct the test; the
date at which the tube or device willbe in condition to
be tested, and the time that will necessarily be occupied
in making the test; and, generally, anything else whereby
the Postmaster-General can judge of the relative value

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Statement of the Case.

226 U. S.

of the several tubes or devices that may be submitted and
the adaptability of each to said service.
"It is preferred that the tests aforesaid be conducted in
the city of New York, Brooklyn, Philadelphia, Chicago,
or Washington, D. C., and between adjacent cities, or
between a post-office and substation or transportation
terminal.
"It is also requested that each of said descriptions be
accompanied by a proposal offering to license to, or otherwise invest in, the United States the right to use the tube
or device, to lease-by the year, or to sell; assign, and transfer it to the United States as a purchaser.
"The tests aforesaid must be made without cost to the
United States, and upon the express condition that the
person offering said tube or device waives all claim against
the United States for any expense attending the construction, tests, or preparation for said tests, or any other expense attending the same. The Postmaster-General has
no authority in law to contract for the expenditure of
money for the use of or purchase of any such invention,
nor is there any existing appropriation out of which the
cost of the same could be paid.
"The right is reserved to decline any test of any tube
or device submitted in response to this advertisement,
and to reject any proposal that may be made.
"The propositions and result of all experiments will be
the subject of a report to Congress.
"JOHN WANAMAKER,
"Postmaster-General."
Under date August 20, 1892, the claimant wrote to the
Postmaster-General stating that pursuant to the advertisement dated July 26, 1892; he desired to submit a description of a pneumatic tube or device invented and
owned. by him suitable for and adapted to the rapid dispatch of mail matter between large cities and post-office

BEACH v. UNITED STATES.
226 U. S.

.247

Statement of the Case.

stations, and also desired to accompany said description
with a "proposal offering to license to or otherwise invest
in the United States the right to use the tube or device, to
lease by the year, or to sell, assign and transfer it to the
United States" as a purchaser; and inquired whether his
proposal should or should not name a price at Which he
(Beach) as the owner aforesaid would so license, lease or
sell, assign and transfer to the United States the right to
use said tube or device. To this the Postmaster-General
replied by letter stating-"rhe advertisement for pneumatic tubes states each offer shall be accompanied by:
proposals to license to, or otherwise invest in, the United
States the right to use the tube or device, to lease by the
year, or to sell, assign or transfer to the United States.
Such proposals must, of course, fix some price to be of
any value."
Thereupon the claimant, under date August 30, 1892,
submitted to the Postmaster-General the following:
"Proposal of Beach.
"[Law Office of:James W. Beach, 94 Washington Street,
Chicago, Illinois.]
"Rapid Dispatch of Mails.
"Hon. John Wanamaker, Postmaster-General, Washington, D. C.
"SIR: In accordance with the, advertisement of the
Postmaster-General, which said advertisement is dated
July 26th, 1892, and is entitled 'Mail service by pneumatic
tubes or other systems,' I, the undersigned, James -W.
Beach, of Chicago, Illinois, hereby propose and offer to
license to or otherwise invest in the United States the right
to use the said two penumatic devices, or either of them,
that is to say, the devices mentioned and described in
Letters Patent No. 267,318 and in Letters Patent, No.
444,038, granted by the United States to the undersigned,
James W. Beach, mentioned and described in the de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Statement of the Case.

226 U. S.

scription of said devices accompanying this proposal,
and signed by said James W. Beach (said two devices
being also described in Exhibits 'C' and 'D' annexed to
the description of said devices filed herewith in the office of
the Postmaster-General by the Beach Pneumatic Conveyor Company), or to lease by the year, or to sell, assign,
and transfer'it to the United States as a purchaser, said
right being the exclusive right in and under said letters
patent, and each of them, in and to all the States and
Territories of the United States, save and excepting therefrom the States of Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Connecticut, Rhode Island, Massachusetts, Michigan, and
the District of Columbia, heretofore sold and assigned to
said Beach Pneumatic Conveyor Company by the undersigned.
"And I, the undersigned James W. Beach, hereby propose and offer as aforesaid to license to or otherwise invest
in the United States all of my said right in, to, under, and
by virtue of said letters patent, and each of them, in and
to all the States and Territories of the United States, save
and excepting said States of Maine, New Hampshire,
Connecticut, Rhode Island, Massachusetts, Michigan, and
the District of Columbia, for and in consideration of the
payment to me, the said James W. Beach, my heirs, executors, administrators, and assigns, by the United States
of the sum of eight hundred thousand dollars ($800,000)
on the first day of September in each year during the term
of said license or leasing or investment in the United States
as aforesaid.
"And I, the undersigned, James W. Beach, hereby further propose and offer to sell, assign, and transfer to the
United States all of my said right derived andc possessed
by me under and by virtue of said two letters patent, in
and to all the States and Territories of the United States,
save and. excepting therefrom the said States 9f Maine,
New Hampshire, Vermont, Connecticut, Rhode Island,

BEACH v. UNITED STATES.
226 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

Massachusetts, Michigan, and the District of Columbia,
for the sum of twenty millions of dollars ($20,000,000),
to be paid by the United States to me, the undersigned,
James W. Beach, my heirs, executors, administrators,
and assigns, on or before the first day of September, A. D.
1893, and upon payment of said sum of money last mentioned to me at the time and as aforesaid by the United
States, I will sell to and make and execute to the United
States a good and sufficient assignment and transfer of
all of my said rights granted and by me possessed as aforesaid under and by virtue of said two letters patent in and
to all the States and Territories, save and excepting therefrom the said States of Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont,
Connecticut, Rhode Island, Massachusetts, Michigan,
and the District of Columbia.
"And I, the undersigned, hereby further propose and
offer to so license, to lease to, or otherwise invest in the
United States all of my said. right under and by virtue of
said two letters patent (for, and the said pneumatic devices or conveyers to be used solely and only for the purpose of collecting and transmitting the United States
mails, and for no other purpose or purposes) in said entire
United States, save and excepting therefrom the said
States of Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Connecticut,
Rhode Island, Massachusetts, Michigan, and the District
of Columbia, upon the express condition that the United
States shall pay therefor and in consideration thereof to
me, the undersigned, James W. Beach, my heirs, executors,;
administrators, and assigns, on the first day of September
in each year during the term of said license, or leasing, or
investment in the United States the sum of three hundred
and fifty-four thousand five hundred and eighty dollars
and twenty cents ($354,580.20), being the amount of
money expended annually by the United States for that
branch of the postal service known as the 'Regulation
wagon, mail-messenger, mail station, and transfer service'

250

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Statement of the Case.

226 U. S.

in twenty-six cities only, notincluding the cities of Washington, D. C., Providence, R. I., Boston, Mass., and Detroit, Mich., as shown on page 112 of the report of the
Postmaster-General, 1888.
"And I, the undersigned, hereby futher propose and
offer as aforesaid to license or lease to the United States
for 'mail purposes only, as aforesaid, a right or rights, and
upon reasonable and equitable terms, and for a reasonable
consideration to be paid to me, the undersigned, my heirs,
executors,, administrators, or assigns therefor, by the
United States, the amount thereof to be agreed upon by
the United. States and the undersigned James W. Beach
(either by mutual agreement or by arbitration) a right or
rights as aforesaid to construct and operate within said
entire United States) or either of them (save and excepting therefrom said States of Maine, New Hampshire,
Vermont, Connecticut, Rhode Island, Massachusetts,
Michigan, and the District of Columbia), one or more of
said pneumatic conveyers or devices, said consideration
to be based upon the mileage of the pneumatic tubes to
.be used, or upon a small percentage of the total (present)
annual cost of the transportation of the United States
riails within said United States.
"This prop6sal is made upon condition and the same
shall not be binding upon the undersigned unless the
United States shall by the, Postmaster-General accept
said propositions, or one of said propositions, and shall
notify me, the undersigned, of said acceptance on or before the first day of August, A. D. 1893.
"In witness whereof I have hereunto set my hand and
seal at Chicago, Illinois, this, thirtieth day of August,
A. D. 1892.
"JAMES W. BEACH. [SEAL].
"In presence of"EDWARD J. QUENNY (?)
"JACOB H. HOPKINS."

BEACH v. UNITED STATES.
226 U. S.

Statement of the Cae.

This 'proposal was accompanied with a description of
the several devices described in letters patent No. 267,318
and No. 444,038, and with a written offer-"At our own
expense to demonstrate in a positive and convincing manner that the said pneumatic devices will when in operation,
do and perform all that is claimed in the accompanying
.
. The undersigned
'Description' of said devices.
is prepared to .enter into a contract with the United States
to construct or cause to be constructed (and operated, if
so desired) one or more lines of said pneumatic devices in
any city of the United States or between any cities or
towns in the United States (whether near or far apart),
upon terms and 'for a consideration to be mutually agreed
-upon, and 'upon executing said contract the undersigned
will secure the performance of any undertaking which he
may so enter into by a good and sufficient bond."
Seven other persons or companies answered the advertisement of the Postmaster-General for bids, and on September 15, 1892, he appointed a commission of three expert
'postal officials to examine into the merits of the pneumatic
tubes and other systems so advertised for, and that commission reported to the Postmaster-General in writing on
September 29, 1892, embodying in its report a brief
schedule of the several propositions, and stating the
general conditions or terms upon which the owners would
Splace their respective devices at the disposal of the Government or submit the' same to its experimental test.
Among these were:
"No. 3. Pneumatic Transit Company of New' Jersey.
Pneumatic. Will put down line between main post-office
in Philadelphia and substation at Third and Chestnut
Streets, without cost to Government and without obligation to purchase or lease. After one year's trial will lease
or will sell at cost if desired by Government."
"No. 8. James W. Beach and the Beach Pneumatic
Conveyer Company, Chicago. Will make contract to

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Statement of the Case.

226 U. S.

construct experimental line for a consideration to be nutually agreed upon. Will sell or lease. Experimental line
to be in readiness in from four to twelve months from
October 1, 1892."
The report contained the following specific recommendation: .
"The offer known as 'No. 3,'- submitted by the Pneumatic Transit- Company of New Jersey, is to put,down in
the streets of Philadelphia between the post-office and the
SEast Chestnut street branch post-office, pneumatic tubes
.to connect these two offices, without expense to the Department, and-vcith6ut, charge for one year's use of the
same, and without liability thereafter. This offer is the
best that has been received, and it is believed to be highly
advantageous to the Department, because it will enable
it to' make an immediate and practical test of the pneumatic system. Your committee, therefore, desire to make
the.copy of,,the proposition No. -3,
hereto attached, a part
of this report, and they recommend prompt acceptance of
the offer, that the test may be made without delay.
"It is worth while to add that in our judgment the placing, of a line -unconditionally at the disposal of the Department, for practical, every day use will go far towards
demonstrating, ,ina general way, the extent to which it
may be made possible to substitute a tube system for the
existing manner of performing transfer service within
large cities, where time enters so largely into the necessities of the people.
"The committee desire, as well, to emphasize that in making recommendation that an arrangement be made with the
Pneumatic Transit Company of New Jersey for the construction of an experimental line-in Philadelphia, it do6s not
wish to be understood as passing upon the merits of the system. itself, that being a matter for consideration-hereafter;
in like manner as it will be our purpose to give consideration
to each one 'of the systems that have 'been submitted."

BEACH v. UNITED STATES.
226 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

Pursuant to this report the Postmaster-General, on
October 20, 1892, entered into a contract with the Pneumatic Transit Company of New Jersey, providing for the
installation by that company at its own expense of a line
of pneumatic tubes in the City of Philadelphia connecting
the main post-office with the sub post-office and its operation, for a period of one year after completion in such
practical tests as the postmaster of Philadelphia and the
Postmaster-General might see fit to conduct; the tests to
be made without cost to the United States beyond the use
of surplus steam from the boilers in the post-office'building. The agreement provided that at the expiration of the
year the* Transit Company would lease said pneumatic
tubes to the United States year by year, or would sell the
same to the United States at cost, and would authorize
the use by the United States of all the patented inventions
in the said pneumatic tubes and devices connected therewith, by license, sale or assignment, as might then be
agreed upon,
Similar contractc were entered into by the Post-office
Department for like transportation of United States mail
at Philadelphia, New York, Brooklyn, and Boston.
The Pneumatic Transit Company, which was incorporated under the laws of the State of New Jersey in 1892,
.had in its employ as an engineer. one Birney C. Batcheller,
He designed some of the terminal apparatus that was
first used in Philadelphia; and a system of tubes and devices which carried mails pneumatically was constructed
under his direc'tion and supervision. While in the employ
of said company said Batcheller extensively investigated
the subject of pneumatics, and subsequently applied for
and was granted letters patent for various improvements
in pneumatic tube delivery devices. 'Ten of such patents
were granted before the filing of Beach's petition in the
Court of Claims, and they were fsed, applied and Qperated
by the Pneumatic Trans'it Company. Twenty of such

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court,

226 U. S.

patents were granted to Batcheller subsequent to the filing
of Beach's petitiofi, and these likewise were used, applied
and operated by the Pneumatic Transit Company.
Among the specific findings of,.the Court, of Claims are
the following:
6. The evidence does not establish to the satisfaction of
the court that plaintiff's letters. patent were conveyed or
delivered to the Postmaster-General.
9. The evidence does not establish to the satisfaction of
the court that-James W. Beach,. the claimant herein, was
the first inventor of the devices for pneumatic transportatibn used, operated, and conducted for the transportation
of mail matter by persons contracting with the United
States or by the agents of the United States.
10. The evidence does not establish to the satisfaction
of the court that the letters patent issued to the claimant,
James W. Beach, covered the same devices actually put
intqpractical operation and used by the corporation which,
under an act of Congress, contracted with the PostmasterGeneral for transmitting mail matter through pneumati',
conveyors.
Upon the foregoing findings of fact the Court of Claims
decided as a. conclusion of law that the claimant was not
entitled to recover, and that his petition should therefore
be dismissed.
Mr. James W. Beach pro se.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Thompson, with whom
Mr. Walter H. Pumphrey was on the brief, for the United
States.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY, after stating the case as above,
delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellant, by his amended petition, asked for a
recovery against the Government in the sum of twenty

BEACH v. UNITED STATES.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

million dollars and interest, as the purchase price upon an
alleged assignment and transfer in the year 1893 of certain
inventions pertaining to pneumatic transportation for
which letters patent had been theretofore issued to him
as mentioned in the findings. His first insistence was and
is that these inventifits and patents had been purchased
by the Postmaster-General under an express agreement
to pay him the sum mentioned as consideration. In the
alternative he insisted and now insists that at least the
Government, with his consent, entered into the use and
enjoyment of his devices and letters patent in the year
1893, and has ever since then used and enjoyed them,
and ought to pay him their fair value, which he places at
twenty million dollars. The facts from which the alleged
contract of purchase (express or implied) is sought to be
deduced are set forth in the findings of fact above referred
to. These findings are criticised by the appellant on the
ground that they constitute a mere recital of the evidence,
instead of an ascertainment of the ultimate facts. This
criticism, under the circumstances of the present case, is
captious. The court has set forth the documents upon
which alone must rest appellant's contention of an express
contract, if that contention have any substantial basis;
and has likewise set forth the history of the transactions
from which, if at all, an agreement must be implied, if
there was no express contract. At the same time the court
has expressly found that "The evidence does not establish
to the satisfaction' of the court that plaintiff's letters
patent were conveyed or celivered to the PostmasterGeneral;" and has made a similar negative finding respecting the appellant's claim to be the first inventor of
the devices for pneumatic transportation used, operated
and conducted for the transportation of mail matter by
persons contracting with the United States or by the
agents of the United States; and a similar negative finding
respecting his claim that his letters patent "covered the

'256

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion ot the Court.

226 U. S.

same devices actually put' into' practical operation and
used by-the corporation' which under an act of Congress
contracted -with the Postmaster-General for transmitting
mail matter through pneumatic conveyors."
'A fundamental obstacle stands in the way of appellant's
'claim, whether it be rested upon an express or an implied
purchase of pneumatic devices or of patented inventions
relating thereto. We refer to the lack of power 'on the
part 'of the Postmaster-General to contract in behalf of
the Goverrunent of the United States for such a purchase.
Sec. 6 of the post-office appropriation act of July 13,
1892 (27 Stat. 145, c. 165), provided merely-"that the
Postmaster-General is hereby authorized and directed to
examine into the subject of a more rapid dispatch of mail
matter 'between large cities; and post-office stations and
transportation terminals located in large cities, by means
of'. pneumatic tubes or other systems, and make report
upon the- expense, cost and advantages of said systems
wlen applied to the mail service of the United States,
and the sum of ten thousand dollars is hereby appropriated
therefor."
Manifestly. the appropriation was intended for the purpose of investigation and report, and did not extend to
authorizing such a purchase as that which the appellant
alleges.
Of. this limitation upon the authority of the PostmasterGeneral tiie appellant had plain notice 'at the inception of
his dealings with that official. Not only did the advertisement of July 26, 1892, begin by referring to' the aboverecited clause of the appropriation act, but it contained,
near its Plose, this express declaration: "The PostmasterGeneral has no authority in law to contract for the expenditure of money, for thle use of or purchase of any such
invention, nor is there any existing appropriation out 6f
:
which the cost of the same could be paid."
Appellant insists that uirder other acts of Congress the

BEACH v. UNITED STATES.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Postmaster-General had authority to purchase the inventions and devices in question. Reference is made
to ยง 3965, Rev. Stat., enacting that "The PostmasterGeneral shall provide for carrying the mail on all postroads established by law, as often as he, having due regard
to productiveness and other circumstances, may think
proper." This is one of the sections that prescribe the
general duties of the Postmaster-General, and cannot be
fairly treated as authority for making the alleged contract
of purchase. Successive ap-propriation acts are referred
to. Act of June 9, 1896 (29 Stat. 313, 315, c. 386),
authorizing the Postmaster-General, in his discretion, to
use not exceeding $35,000 in the transportation of mail by
pneumatic tube or other similar devices, contains no
authorization of purchase. Act of March 3, 1897 (29
Stat. 644, 646, c. 385), authorizes the use of not exceeding $150,000 in the transportation of mail by pneumatic
tube or other similar devices, "by purchase or otherwise."
But this was enacted more than four years after the last
transactions (so far as the record shows) between the
appellant and the Potmaster-General, out of which it
could possibly be claimed that any contract, express or
implied, had arisen. For like reasons, subsequent statutes
that are referred to (Act of June 13, 1898, 30 Stat. 440,
442, c. 446; Act of March 1,1899, 30 Stat. 959, 963, c. 327;
Act of June 2, 1900, 31 Stat. 252, 258, c. 613; Act of July1,
1898, 30 Stat. 597, 615, c. 546; Act of March 3, 1899, 30
Stat. 1074, 1092, c. 424) must be rejected. They indicate
that pneumatic tube service' was in operation in Philadelphia, New York City, Brooklyn, Boston, and perhaps
elsewhere; but they have no reference to any transactions between the Postmaster-General and the appellant.
But if the obstacle arising: out of the actual and avowed
want of authority on the part of the Postmaster-General
cquld be overcome, the appellant's case is still fatally
voi,. ccxxvI-i7

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U.S.

weak upon the question whether any contract was in fact
maqle, either expressly or by implication from the conduct
of the parties.
The contention thatthere was an express contract rests
,upon the fact. that the Postmaster-General retained the
appellant's proposal without ia terms rejecting it. The
argument is untenable for several reasonsi some of which
may be stated.
First, it ignores the fact that the proposal was submitted in response to an- advertisenent which plainly
stated that the proposals were desired for the purpose -of
investigation -and estimate merely, and that the Pdstmaster-General had no authority to contract for the expenditure of money for the use or purchase of any such
invention...
Secondl-Y, it treats the'appellant's proposal as 'anassign.ment in presenti of his inventions and patents to the
United States, and nothing else. It was not, either in
form or substance, an assignment, but (so -far as, it had
reference to a sale), merely purported to state the terms
.upon which Beach proposed and offered to sell, and manifestly contemplated that something should be done on
each side before the inventions should in fact become the
property .of the United States. It is significant that one
of the terms of the proposal was: "This proposal is made
upon condition and the same shall. not be binding upon'
the undersigned unless the United States shall by the
'Postmaster-General accept said propositions, or one of
said propositions and. shall notify me, the -fndersigned,
of said acceptance on or before the first day of August,'
A. D. 1893-."
Thirdly, the proposal was not a mere, offer to 'sell.the'
'inventions and patents. It contained four several prop'sitions, acceptance -of either one of which involved rejection of the remaining three; that is to say, Beach offered
(a) to invest in the United States all of, his rights under
-

BEACH v. UNITED STATES.
226 U. S.

259.

Opinion of the Po urt.

the patents in all States, and Territories excepting Maine,
New Hampshire, Connecticitt, Rhode Island, Michigan,
and the District of Columbia, in consideration of $800,000
per annum, this offer being without limit. as to the use to
which the patented devices should be put; (b) to assign
and transfer to the United States all, rights in the patents
in all the States and Territories saving those just mentioned for twenty million dollars, (this of, course contemplated an absolute sale); (c) to invest in the United States
all his rights under the two patents ("the said pneumatic'
devices or conveyors to be used solely and only for the
purpose of collecting and transmitting the United States
mails, and for no other purpose") in the entire United
States excepting the States already mentioned and the
District of Columbia, in consideration of an annual payment of $354,580.20, and (d) to "license or lease to the
United States for mail purposes only " the right to construct and operate'his pneumatic conveyors anywhere in
the United States, excepting the States already mentioned
and the District of Columbia, "upon reasonable and
equitable terms, and for a reasonable consideration to be
paid to me . . . the amount thereof to be agreed
upon by the United States and the undersigned, James
W. Beach, (either by mutual 'agreement or by arbitra-said consideration to be based upon the
tion), ...
mileage of the pneumatic tubes to be used, or upon a
small percentage of the total (present) annual cost of the
transportation of the United States mails within said
United States." It,is evident that a retention of the
proposal without dissent could not be deemed an acceptance of proposition (b) any .more than of (a), or of (c), or
of (d); and so the act of. retention (if there were'no obstacle arising out of the want of authority on the part of
the Postmaster-General) cannot be treated as an acceptance of either one of the four several propositions.
For these and other reasons, the Court of Claims was

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

226 U. S.

clearly right in holding that the evidence did not establish
that the letters patent were conveyed or delivered to the
Postmaster-General.
The theory of implied contract is likewise untenable.
In the first place, the want of statutory authority on the
part of the Postmaster-General to represent the Government in making an express contract is equally fatal to the
theory of an implied contract. For it is fundamental that
he who is without authority to bind his principal by an
express contract cannot be held to have done so by implication.
Another and sufficient answer is that the appellant has
failed to show any use by the Postmaster-General or his
successors of the patented inventions or devices of the
appellant, or to show that the contractors or agents of the
Government have made any use of them. His case here
fails because he does not show that the inventions or
devices'used are those covered by his patents.
Therefore the Court of Claims correctly held that the
appellant had not made out a case of contract.
Judgment affirmed.

ROSENTHAL v. PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF NEW
YORK.
ERROR TO THE COUNTY COURT OF MONROE COUNTY, IN THE
STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 28. ' Argued November 5, 1912.-Decided December 2, 1912.
The prohibition of the Fourteenth Amendmexit against abridgment of
privileges or immunities of a citizen of the United States relates only
to such privileges and immunities as pertain to citizenship of the
United States as distinguished from state citizenship. Slaughter
House Cases, 16 Wall. 36.

