OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

226 U. S.

EWING v. CITY OF LEAVENWORTH.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
No. 66.

Argued December 6, 1912.-Decided January 6, 1913.

A license tax on express companies for receiving and sending packages
to and from points within the State is not unconstitutional as an attempt to tax interstate commerce when applied to packages passing
between such points by routes lying partly through another State.
Lehigh Valley, -Railroadv. Pennsylvania, 145 U. S. 192, followed;
Hanley v. Kansas City Southern Railway, 187 U. S. 617, distinguished.
80 Kansas, 58, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality of a li-

cense tax on express companies, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Branch P. Kerfoot, with whom Mr. Frank H. Platt,
Mr. Jno. T. O'Keefe and Mr. George W. Field were on the
brief, for plaintiff in error:
An express company may not be compelled to buy a
city license before it may handle in that city packages
forwarded by it therefrom to other places in the same
State, or from other places in that State thereto, which
packages axe necessarily partly carried through another
State. Such business is interstate transportation, and
the city may not prohibit or burden the transaction of
such business.
The transportation of express packages between Leavenworth, Kansas, and other stations in Kansas, over railroad lines a large part of which axe in Missouri, is interstate commerce. Hanley v. Kansas City Southern Railway
Company, 187 U. S. 617; Coast Steamship Co. v. Railroad
Commissioners, 9 Sawy. 253.
Leavenworth claims the rightto license express business
which the State of Kansas has no power to regulate,

EWING v. LEAVENWORTH.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Leloup v. Mobile, 127 U. S. 640, 645; Lehigh Valley v.
Pennsylvania, 145 U. S. 192, and Maine v. Grand Trunk,
142 U. S. 217, do not apply.
Campbell v. Chic., Mil. & St. P. Ry. Co., 86 Iowa, 587;
Seawell v. Kansas City &c. R. R. Co., 119 Missouri, 222;
Railroad Commissioners v. West. Un. Tel. Co., 113 Nor.
Car. 213, were decided simply out of deference to Lehigh
Valley Railroad Co. v. Pennsylvania, 145 U. S. 192, and
carry the conclusions of that case too far.
The ordinance as construed by the Supreme Court of
Kansas is invalid because it requires an express company
to take out a license to conduct interstate commerce.
Crutcherv. Kentucky, 141 U. S. 47, 57.
The license tax specified in the ordinance is invalid
because it is a burden on interstate commerce. It is
directly imposed upon the right to do the business. It is
not a property tax measured by the amount of receipts.
It cannot, therefore, be sustained upon the authority of
those cases which hold that a State may collect a property tax based on receipts from interstate transportation.
Leloup v. Port of Mobile, 127 U. S. 640.
Hanley v. Railway, 187 U. S. 617, 621; United States Express v. Minnesota, 223 U. S. 335, distinguished.
Mr. Benjamin F. Endres and Mr. Arthur M. Jackson
filed a brief for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
Plaintiff in error was the agent of the United States
Express Company at Leavenworth, Kansas. He was
convicted of violating an ordinance of the city imposing
a tax on the business of express companies. The conviction was affirmed in 80 Kansas, 58, and the case is brought
here.
VOL. ccxxvi-30

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court:

226 U. S.

Under the ordinance a tax was imposed on the business
and occupation of express companies as follows:
"The sum of fifty dollars per year on the business and
occupation of Express Company, corporation, or Agency,
in receiving packages in this city from persons in the city
and transmitting the same by express from this city
within this State to persons and places within this State,
and receiving in this city packages by express transmitted
within the State from persons and places in this State to
persons within this city and delivering the same to persons in this city excepting the receipt, transmission and
delivery of any such packages to and from any department, agency or agent of the United States, and excepting the receipt, transmission and delivery of any such
packages which are interstate commerce; the business
and occupation of receiving, transmitting and delivering
of the packages herein excepted is not taxed hereby."
The United States Express Company receives express
packages at Leavenworth and forwards them by railroad
to other cities and towns, some without the State and
some within the State, and also delivers packages which
have been forwarded to Leavenworth from like cities
and towns. All such express packages are required to be
brought into or sent out of Leavenworth, which lies west
of the Missouri River in Kansas, over the Rock Island
Railroad, which runs along the Missouri side of the Missouri River, with a branch across the river to Leavenworth. The Express Company has no other means of
transportation of packages in or out of Leavenworth. It
therefore follows that every package handled by the Express Company at Leavenworth is brought from or carried
into the State of Missouri over this branch of the Rock
Island Railroad. The actual carriage in the State of
Kansas over such branch is about one mile. The record
shows that about ten per cent. of the business done at
Leavenworth by the Express Company is between Leaven-

EWING v. LEAVENWORTH.
226 U. S.

467

Opinion of the Court.

worth and other points in Kansas, but all such business
is :required to be transported in part at least withih the
State of Missouri.
The contention in this case is that the tax thus imposed
is a regulation of and burden upon 'interstate commerce,
and therefore in violation of the . Federal Constitution
which vests in Congress the sole authority to regulate.
commerce among the States.
It is to be observed that the ordinance excludes interstate and Government business. As the Supreme Court of
Kansas says (80 Kansas, 62): "The license tax was upon
so much of the company's business as was carried on in
Kansas. It had an office and local conveyances in Leavenworth for the collection 6f packages in that city, and it
made contracts for transporting these packages to places
within the state., Likewise it collected packages in other
parts of the state and carried them into Leavenworth,
where they were delivered to the consignees. Does the
fact that in carrying these packages between points in
Kansas they pass over the soil of another state for a short
distance make the tax on that business invalid?"
We are of opinion that this case is controlled by Lehigh'
Valley Railroad v. Pennsyl.vania, 145 U. S. 192, in which
it was held that a State might tax the receipts of a railroad
corporation for. the portion of the transportation' which
was within the State, although the transportation then
in question while between points within the State, passed
over the railroad which traversed for a part of the way
territory of an adjoining 'State. It was held that a tax
upon such receipts did not tax interstate commerce, and
this court said (p. 202):
"It, should be remembered that the question does not
arise as to the power of any other State than the State of
the termini, nor as to taxation upon the property of the
company situated elsewhere than in Pennsylvania, nor
as to the regulation by Pennsylvania of the operations of

468

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

this or any other company elsewhere, but it is simply
whether, in the carriage of freight and passengers between
two points in one State, the mere passage over the soil
of another State renders that business foreign, which is
domestic. We'do not think such a view can be reasonably
entertained, and are of opinion that this taxation is not
open to constitutional objection by reason of the particular way in which Philadelphia was reached from Mauch
Chunk.".
The Lehigh Valley Case was cited with approval in
U. S. Express Co. v. Minnesota, 223 U. S. 335, 342, as
determinative of the proposition that the State of Minnesota might tax the receipts of an express .company from
the transportation of packages from points within the
State to other points therein although the transportation
was in part outside the State.
It is contended, however, that the contrary result must
.be ,reached, applying the principles laid down in Hanley
v. Kansas City Southern Ry. Co., 187 U. S. 617. In that
case this court declared unconstitutional a law of Arkansas
undertaking to fix rates upon railway transportation, the
transportation in question in that case being a single carriage partly outside of the State of Arkansas from a point
within to another point within the State. In the particular instance the transportation covered 116 miles, of which
only 52 miles were within Arkansas and the rest without
the State. It was held that the right to regulate such
commerce was solely in Congress under the Constitution,
ajnd that the transportation was a single and entire thing
and as a subject for rate legislation was indivisible. The
case of Lehigh Valley Railroadv. Pennsylvania, supra, was
called to the attention of the court, and of that case this
court said (p. 621):
"That was the case of a tax and was distinguished expressly from an attempt by a State directly to regulate
the transportation while outside its borders. 145 U. S.

EWING v. LEAVENWORTH.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

204. And although it was intimated that, for the purposes
before the court, to some extent commerce by transportation might have its character fixed by the relation between
the two ends of the transit, the intimation was carefully
confined to those purposes. Moreover, the tax 'was determined in respect of receipts for the proportion of the
transportation within the State.' 145 U. S. 201. Such a
proportioned tax had been sustained in the case of commerce admitted to be interstate. Maine v. Grand Trunk
Railway Co., 142 U. S. 217. Whereas it is decided, as we
have said, 'that when a rate is established, it must be
established as a whole."
The distinction is applicable here. There is no attempt
to fix a rate by the auth6rity of the State, which, while
single and complete in itself, covers for a considerable part
interstate transportation. The privilege tax levied in this
case expressly excludes commerce of an interstate character or business done for the Government, and is levied
solely on the business done in the City of Leavenworth in
ieceiving packages from points within the State and in
transporting packages to like points. Applying the principles of the Lehigh Valley Case, to such a situation we are
of opinion that, for the purpose of a privilege tax for
business thus done, the municipality, acting ,under authority of the State, did not exceed its just power.
Judgment affirmed.

