ADAMS EXPRESS CO. v. CRONINGER.
226 U. S.

Syllabus.

ADAMS EXPRESS COMPANY v. CRONINGER.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF KENTON COUNTY, STATE
OF KENTUCKY.

No. 18. Argued March 13, 1912; reargued October 23, 1912.-Decided
January 6, 1913.
The constitutional power of Congress to regulate commerce among
the States and with foreign nations comprehends power to regulate
contracts between shipper and carrier of shipments in such commerce in regard to liability for loss or damage to articles carried.
Until Congress has legislated upon that subject, the liability of a carrier, although engaged in interstate commerce, for loss or damage to
property carried, may be regulated by law of the State.
Since the decisions of this court in Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul
Railway v. Solan, 169 U. S. 133, and Pennsylvania Railroad v.
Hughes, 191 U. S. 477, Congres, has by § 20 of the Hepburn Act of
June 29, 1906, 34 Stat. 584, c. 3591, known as the Carmack amendment, legislated directly upon the carrier's liability for loss of and
damage to interstate shipments, and this legislat ion supersedes all
regulations and policies of a particular State upon the same subject.
Only the silence of Congress authorizes the exercise of the police power
of the State upon the subject of contracts with carriers for interstate shipments, and when Congress exercises its authority the
regulating power of the State is at an end.
In enacting the Carmack amendment it is evident that Congress intended to 'adopt a uniform rule as to the liability imposed upon
interstate carriers by state regulations of bills of lading and to relieve such contracts from the diverse regulation to which they had
theretofore been subject.
A proviso reserving certain rights of action will not be construed as
nullifying the statute itself and maintaining the existing confusion
which it was the purpose of Congress to put an end to; and so held
that the proviso in the Carmack amendment related to remedies
under existing Federal law at the time of this action and not to any
state law.
A rational interpretation will be given to a statute and a proviso and
not one by which the statute will, through the proviso,.destroyitself.
A common carrier cannot exempt himself from liability for his own

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Statement of the Case.

226 U. S.

negligence or that of his employ&s, but the rigor of this rule may be
modified by a fair, reasonable.and just agreement with the shipper
which does not include exemption from such negligence; and the
right to receive compensation commensurate with the risk involves
the right to agree upon rates proportionate with the value of the
property transported.
An interstate carrier may, by a fair, open and reasorable agreement,
limit the amount recoverable bythe shipper to an agreed value made
for the purpose of obtaining the lower of two or more rates proportioned to the amount of risk.
A limitation of 4iability based upon ah agreed value to obtain 9,lower
rate does not conflict with any sound principle of public policy; and
it is not conformable to plain principles of. justice that a shipper
.'may understate value in order to reduce the rate and thenrecover a
larger value in case of loss.
The provisions of the Carmack amendment are not Violated by a plain
provision in a bill of lading basing the charges on value of article
ft ansported and charging higher rates for increasing liability as value
is declared; and so held as*to express rates filed with the Interstate
Commerce Commission.

THIS was an action in the. Circuit Court of Kenton
County, Kentucky, against the Express Company to recover the full market value of a small package containing
a diamond ring .which was delivered by the plaintiff below
to the Express Company at its office in Cincinnati, Ohio,
consigned to J. W. Clendenning at Augusta, Georgia. The
package was never delivered.
The Express Company made .defense by answer. The
plaintiff demurred to the answer as not containing a defense, which demurrer was sustained. The company declined to further plead, whereupon the Circuit Court gave
judgment for the sum of $137.52, being the full value of
the ring and interest.

A writ of error was sued out from

this court to the Circuit Court of Kenton County, that
being the highest court of the State in which a decision
could be had.
The answer and accompanying exhibit were in substance

as follows:

ADAMS EXPRESS CO. v. CRONINGER.
226 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

That the defendant was an express company engaged in
interstate commerce within the provisions of the act of
Congress of June 29, 1906; that in obedience to that act
it had duly filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission schedules showing its rates and charges from Cincinnati to Augusta, Georgia, which schedules showed that
its rates and charges, when the value of the property to
be carried was in excess of fifty dollars, were graduated
reasonably, according to the value, and that the lawful
rate upon the package of the plaintiff from Cincinnati to
Augusta was twenty-five cents if the value was fifty dollars
or less, and was fifty-five cents if its value was one hundred and twenty-five dollars.
It is averred that the plaintiff knew that the charges
upon the package shipped were based upon the value of
the shipment, and that it (the defendant) required that
the value should be declared by the shipper, and that if he
did not disclose and declare the value when he delivered
the shipment to it at Cincinnati for transportation to
Augusta, the rate charged would be based upon a valuation of fifty dollars. It is then alleged that the package
so delivered was sealed and that defendant did not know
the contents or value, and that if it had it would not have
received it for carriage for 'less than the lawful published
rate of fifty-five cents. The receipt or bill of lading
issued shows no value, but contains a stipulation in these
words:
"In consideration of the rate charged for carrying said
property, which is regulated by the value thereof and is
based upon a valuation of not exceeding fifty dollars unless
a greater value is declared., the shipper agrees that the
value of said property is not more than fifty dollars, unless
a greater value is stated herein, and that the company
shall not be liable in any event for more than the value so
stated, nor for more than fifty dollars if no value is stated
herein."

OCTOBER TERM, 19i2.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

226 U. S.

Mr. Lawrence Maxwell, with whom Mr. Joseph S.
Graydon was on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
The judgment of the state court denies effect to the
general purpose and to specific provisions of the Interstate
Commerce Acts, and deprives defendant of rights secured
thereby. New Haven R. R. v. Interstate Com. Comm.,
200 U. S. 361, 395; Armour Packing Co. v. United States,
209 U. S. 56, 72; Texas & Pacific Railway Co. v. Abilene
Cotton Oil Co., 204 U. S. 426; Texas & Pacific Ry, Co. v.
Mugg, 202 U. S. 242; Louisville &c. Nashville Railroad
Co. v. Mottley, 219 U. 3. 467; Union Pacific Ry. Co. v.
Goodridge, 149 U. S. 690; Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co. v.
PitcairnCoal Company, 215 U. S.481; Melody v. Great
Northern Ry. Co., 25 S. Dak. 606.
A public policy of the United States of uniform application is necessarily established by the acts to regulate commerce, which is inconsistent with the power formerly
existing in the States to compel an interstate carrier to
answer for more than the amount on which the rate was
based to a shipper who has secured an illegally low rate.
Initial carriers are not subject to the liability imposed
by varying state laws for loss or damage to interstate
shipments, because Congress has assumed possession of
the domain of such liability under the Carmack amendment of June 29, 1906.
Pennsylvania Railroad Co. v. Hughes, 191 U. S. 477,
was affirmed on authority of Chi., Mil. &c. Ry. Co. v.
Solan, 169 U. S. 133, but numerous changes have been
made in the Interstate Commerce Act since then as both
the Elkins Act and the Carmack amendment are subsequent to the transactions involved in those cases.
The main purpose of the Carmack amendment was to
give the holder of the bill of lading, which the carrier
to whom the goods were delivered for transportation is
required to issue, a right of action against such carrier
for loss caused by connecting carriers, with a right in

ADAMS EXPRESS CO. v. CRONINGER.
226 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

the initial carrier to recover over against the connecting
carrier. Atlantic Coast Line v. Riverside Mills, 219 U. S.
186.
The right thus created was not a right unknown to
existing law. Mo., Kas. &c. Tex. Ry. Co. v. McCann, 174
U. S. 580; Southern Pacific Ry. Co. v. Crenshaw, 63 S. E.
Rep. 685.
State action is inhibited when Congress has spoken.
Northern Pac. Ry. Co. v. Washington, 222 U. S. 370;
Southern Ry. Co. v. Reid, 222 U. S. 424; Southern Ry. Co.
v. Reid & Beam, 222 U. S. 444..
The proviso cannot be construed so as to leave in existence rights of action under state law which apply to the
same subjeci-matter, for to admit that the matter with
which Congress dealt remainied subject to state power,
is to cause the act of Congress to: destroy itself. Northern
Pacific Ry. Co. v. Washington, 222 U. S. 370, 378; Southern
Pacific Co. v. Crenshaw, 63 S. E. Rep. 865.
Defendant's liability under § 20 of the Interstate Commerce Act does not exceed fifty dollars, and the judgment
of the state court for more than that. amount deprives
defendant of a Federal right. Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v.
Hughes, 191 U. S. 477, 486; Hart v. Penn. R. R. Co., 112
U. S. 331.
At common law, while the right of the carrier to inquire
as to the value of a package in order to determine his
freight was always recognized, it was held in the absence
of such inquiry, that the shipper was under no obligation
to disclose the value. But as early as 11 Geo. IV, and 1
Wm. IV, c. 68, it was provided by statute in Epgland that a
carrier should not be liable beyond ten pounds unless 'at the
time of making the shipment, the shipper, if the goods were
of greater value, should so declare to the carrier, and pay
accordingly. ' And see Gibbon v. Paynton, 4 Burr. 2298
(1769) ;'Clay v. Willan, 1 H. BL 298 (1789); Izett v. Mountain, 4 East, 371 (1803); Batson v. Donovan, 4 B. & Ald.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

226 U. S.

21 (1820); Hinton v. Dibbin, 2 Ad. & E. (N. S.) 646; Kidd
v. Greenwich Ins. Co., 35 Fed. Rep. 351; Calderonv. Atlas
S. S. Co., 64 Fed. Rep. 874; Calderon v. Atlas S. S. Co.,
69 Fed. Rep. 574; The Kensington, 88 Fed. Rep. 331;
Jennings v. Smith, 106 Fed. Rep. 139; Saunders v. Southern Ry., 128 Fed. Rep. 15; Macfarlane v. Adams Express Co., 137 Fed. Rep. 982; Missouri &c. Ry. of Texas
v. Patrick, 144 Fed. Rep. 632; Taylor v. Weir, 162 Fed.
Rep. 585; Blackwell v. Southern Pac. Co., 184 Fed. Rep.
489; Pierce Co. v. Wells Fargo Co., 189 Fed. Rep. 561;
Liverpool Steam Co. v. Phenix Ins. Co., 129 U. S. 397,
442; Calderon v. Atlas S. S. Co., 170 U. S. 272; The Kensington, 183 U. S. 263; Alair v. Railroad Company, 53
Minnesota, 160; Douglas Co. v. Railway Co., 62 Minnesota,
288; O'Malley v. Railway Co., 86 Minnesota, 380; Loeser
v. Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry. Co., 94 Wisconsin, 571; Ullman v. Chicago &c. Ry. Co., 112 Wisconsin, 150; Baltimore & Ohio Ry. Co. v. Hubbard, 72 Oh. St. 302.
See also, for cases under the Carmack amendment,
Bernard v. Adams Express Co., 205 Massachusetts, 254;
Greenwald v. Barrett, 199 N. Y. 170; Travis v. Wells,
Fargo & Co., 79 N. J. L. 83; P. C. C. & St. L. Ry. Co. v.
Mitchell; 91 N. E. Rep. 735; Larsen v. Oregon Short Line,
110 Pac. Rep. 983.
Plaintiff cannot maintain the action because it is
founded on a transaction on his part which is declared to
be a fraud on the defendant and a public offense by acts
of Congress.
Not only does the judgment of the Kentucky court
render nugatory the general purposes of the Interstate
Commerce Acts, but it was based on a transaction expressly prohibited and made a misdemeanor by § 10 of the
act, and by the Elkins Act. Armour Packing Company v.
United States, 209 U. S. 66, 69.
A transaction which constitutes a violation of these
sections cannot be the basis of an action. Ellison v.

ADAMS EXPRESS CO. v. CRONINGER.
226 U. S.

497

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Adams Express Co., 245 Illinois, 410; Matter of Released
Rates, 13 I. C. C. Rep. 550. And see Conference Rulings
of the Commission, Bulletin No. 5, April 1, 1911; Frank
v. Adams Express Co., Pitts. Leg. Jour., May 20, 1908,
0. S. Vol. LV, N. S. XXXVIII (Common Pleas Court
No. 1, Allegheny County).
Mr. John Randolph Schindel, with whom Mr. Morison
R. Waite was on the brief, for defendant in error:
The contract embodied in the receipt was void under
§ 196 of the Kentucky constitution which provides that
no common carrier shall be permitted to contract for relief
from its common-law liability. Southern Express Co. v.
Fox, 131 Kentucky, 257; Adams Express Co. v. Walker,
119 Kentucky, 121; Louisville & N. R. Co. v. Frazee, 24
Ky. L. Rep. 1273; Ohio & M. R. Co. v. Tabor, 98 Kentucky, 503; Cincinnati, N. 0. & T. P. R. Co. v. Graves, 21
Ky. L. Rep. 684; Illinois C. R. Co. v. Radford, 23 Ky. L.
Rep. 886.
The judgment of the state court did not deprive the
defenidant of any right, pr!ivilege, or immunity secured
by the Interstate Commerce Act.
Section 196 of the Kentucky constitution deals with the
right of a common carrier to relieve itself from its-liability
for the acts of its connecting carriers, who, in effect, are
made its agents instead of the agents of the shipper.
The provisions of the act relied upon deal with two
subjects-matter: rates and liability of the initial carrier for
losses caused by connecting carriers. The subject-matter
of § 196 of the Kentucky constitution is not rates, and it
does not, deal with the right of a common carrier to limit
its liability for the acts of its connecting lines. It deals
solely and exclusively, and its subject-matter is confined
to the right of a common carrier to contract for relief
from its common-law liability, for its own acts.- The
Interstate Commerce Act does not deal with the same
VOL. ccxxvi-32

498

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

226 U. S.

subject-matter as this section of the Kentucky constitution; and a Kentucky court, having jurisdiction of the
parties, was entitled to interpret and to apply that law
as it understood it without regard to the Federal statutes.
For the purpose of the Interstate Commerce Act, see
Armour Packing Company v. United States, 209 U. S. 56;
N. Y., N. H. & H. R. R. v. Int. Com. Comm., 200 U. S.
361; Texas & Pacific Railway Co. v. Abilene Cotton Oil
Company, 204 U. S. 426; Louis. & Nash. R. R. Co. v.
Mottley, 219 U. S. 467.
These sections of the act deal only with rates, and it
cannot be said that Congress has legislated or attempted
to legislate upon the subject dealt with by the state law.

Gulf, Colorado & Santa Fe Railway Company v. Hefley,
158 U. S. 98, distinguished, as both the Federal and the
state statutes dealt with the same subject-matter.

The state court had the right to administer the common law of Kentucky as it saw it, and unless the Congress

of the United States has sought to prohibit a carrier
engaged in interstate transportation from limiting, or to
permit such a carrier to limit, its liability to a stipulated
valuation, or has legislated upon that "precise" subject,
the State of Kentucky may require common carriers although engaged in interstate commerce, to answer for
the whole loss resulting from their negligence, whether
there is a contract or not. Pennsylvania Railroad Com-

pany v. Hughes, 191 U. S. 477; Chi., Mil. &c. Ry. Co. v.
Solan, 169 U. S. 133.
It was not the intention of Congress in prohibiting a
common carrier from limiting its liability with respect
to the obligations imposed by the Interstate Commerce
Act, to wipe out every regulation made or upheld by the
different States for the protection of their shippers.
Bernard v. Adams Express Co., 205 Massachusetts, 254,
and Greenwald v. Barrett, 199 N. Y. 170.
The right of plaintiff to recover, even if the action was

ADAMS EXPRESS CO. v. CRONINGER.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

founded on a transaction declared to be a public offense
by an act of Congress, was a question of general common
law and has been determinEd in his favor by the Kentucky court. Railroad Company v. Hughes, 191 U. S.
477, 486.
Ellison v. Adams Expres,,; Co., 245 Illinois, 410, distinguished; and see Adams Express Co. v. Walker, 119
Kentucky, 121.
In this case the package was delivered to the express
company without any inquiry or demand being made
by the defendant to know its value or contents, and there
was, therefore, no willful violation of the act. Matter of
Released Rates, 13 I. C. C. Rep. 550-554.
MR. JusTIcE LuRTON, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
The answer relies upon the act of Congress of June 29,
1906, being an act to amend the Interstate Commerce
Act of 1887, as the only regulation applicable to an interstate shipment; and avers that the limitation of value,
declared in its bill of lading, was valid and obligatory under
that act. This defense was denied. This constitutes the
Federal question and gives this court jurisdiction.
Under th e law of Kentucky this contract, limiting the
plaintiff's recovery to the agreed or declared value, was
invalid, and the shipper was entitled to recover the actual
value, "unless," as said in Adams .Express Company v.
Walker, 119 Kentucky, 121. 129, and affirmed in Southern
Express Company v. Fox and Logan, 131 Kentucky, 257,
"sufficient facts are shown, independently of the special
contract, to avoid the contract for fraud or to create an
estoppel at common law."
The question~upon which the case must turn, is, whether
the operation and effect of the contract for an interstate
shipment, as shown by the receipt or bill of lading, is

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

governed by the local law of the State, or by the acts of
Congress regulating interstate commerce.
That the constitutional power of Congress to regulate
commerce among the States and with foreign nations
comprehends power to regulate contracts between the
shipper and the carrier of an interstate shipment by defining the liability of the carrier for loss, delay, injury or
damage to such property, needs neither argument nor
citation of authority.
But it- is equally well settled that until Congress has
legislated upon the subject, the liability of such a carrier,
exercising its calling within a particular State, although
engaged in the business of interstate commerce, for loss
or damage to such property, may be regulated by the law
of the State. Such regulations would fall within that large
class of regulations which it is competent for a State to
make in the absence of legislation by Congress, -growing
out of the territorial jurisdiction of the State over such
carriers and its duty and power to safeguard the general
public against acts of misfeasance and nonfeasance committed within its limits,' although interstate commerce
may be indirectly affected: Smith v. Alabama, 124 U. S.
465; New York &c. Railroad v. New York, .165 U. S.628;
Chicago, Milwaukee & St. P. Ry. v. Solan, 169 U. S.133,
137; Richmond &c. Ry. v.: Patterson Co., 169 U. S. 311;
Cleveland &c. Ry. v. Illinois, 177 U. S.514; Pennsylvania
Railroad v. Hughes, 191 U. S. 477. In the Solan Case,
cited above, it was said of such state legislation:
"They are not, in themselves, regulations of interstate
commerce, although they control, in some degree, the conduct and the liability of those engaged in such commerce.
So long as Congress has not legislated upon the particular
subject, they are rather to be regarded as legislation in aid
of such commerce, and as a rightful exercise of the police
power of the State.to regulate the relative rights and duties
of all persons and corporations within its limits."

ADAMS EXPRESS CO. v. CRONINGER.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

In that cage the court upheld the validity of an Iowa
statute which made void Every "contract, receipt, rule
or regulation, which shall exempt any railway from liability as a common carrier, which would exist had no contract, receipt, rule, or regulation been made or entered
into."
. The contract there involved was for transportation
of
cattle with a drover in charge, and the shipper had signed
a contract limiting the liability to himself or the drover
to $500 for injury to the peison of the drover. Proof was
offered that this limitation was the consideration for a
reduced rate of transportation.
In Pennsylvania Railroad v. Hughes, 191 U. S. 477, 487,
491, there was involved a bill of lading in all essentials
identical with the -one here concerned, whereby it was
stipulated that in consideration of a reduced rate of
freight, the shipper should receive, in case of negligent
loss, the agreed value declared in the receipt. The shipment was made in New York, where the stipulation was
valid, to a point in Pennsylvania, where such a limitation
was invalid. The loss occurred in the latter State, and
the Supreme Court of the State upheld a judgment for
the full value, declaring the limitation invalid as forbidden
by the public policy of that State. That case came to
this court upon the contention that the Pennsylvania
court in refusing to limit the recovery to the valuation
agreed upon ,had denied to the railroad company a right
or privilege secured to it by the Interstate Commerce
Law. But this court as to that said (p. 487.):
"It may be assumed that under the broad power conferred upon Congress over interstate commerce as defined
in repeated decisions of this court, it would be lawful for
that body to make provision as to contracts for interstate carriage, permitting the carrier to limit its liability
to a particular sum in consideration of lower freight rates
for transportation. But upon examination of the terms

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

of the law relied upon we fail to find any such provision
therein. The sections of the interstate commerce law
relied upon by the learned counsel for plaintiff in error,
24 Stat. 379, 382; 25 U. S. Stat. 855, provide for equal
facilities to shippers for the interchange of traffic; for
non-discrimination in freight rates; for keeping schedules
of rates open to public inspection; for posting the same
in public places, with certain particulars as to charges,
rules and regulations; for the publication of joint tariff
rates for continuous transportation over one or more
lines, to be made public when directed by the Interstate
Commerce Commission; against advances in joint tariff
rates except after ten days' notice to the commission;
against reduction of joint tariff rates except after three
days' like notice; making it unlawful for any party to
a -joint tariff to receive or demand a greater or less compensation for the transportation of property between
points as to which a joint tariff is made different than is
specified in the schedule filed with the commission; giving
remedies for the enforcement of the foregoing provisions,
and providing penalties for their violation; making it
unlawful to prevent continuous carriage, and providing
that no break of bulk, stoppage or interruption by the
carrier, unless made in good faith for some necessary purpose without intention to evade the act, shall prevent the
carriage of freights from being treated as one continuous
carriage from the place of shipment to the place of destination.
"While under these provisions it may be said that Congress has made it obligatory to provide proper facilities
for interstate carriage of freight, and has prevented carriers from obstructing continuous shipments on interstate
lines, we look in vain for any regulation of the matter
here in controversy. There is no sanction of agreements
of this character limiting liability to stipulated valuations,
and, until Congress shall legislate, upon it, is there any

ADAMS EXPRESS CO. v.. CRONINGER.
226 U: S.

503

Opinion of the Court.

valid objection to the State enforcing its own regulations
upon the subject, although it may to this extent indirectly
affect interstate commerce contracts of carriage?"
In view of the decisions of this court in the two cases
last referred to, we shall assume:that this case is governed
by them, unless the subsequent legislation of Congress
is such as to indicate a purpose to bring contracts for interstate shipments under one uniform rule of law not subject
to the varying policies and legislation of particular States.
The original Interstate Commerce Act of February 4,
1887, 24 Stat. 379, c. 104, 'was extensively -amended by
the act of June 29, 1906, 34 Stat. 584, c. 3591. We may
pass by many of the changes and amendments made by the
latter act as not decisive, and comeat once to the far more
important amendment made in§ 20, an amendment bearing directly upon the carrier's liability or obligation under
interstate contracts of shipment, and generally referred
to as the Carmack amendment. For convenience of

reference, it is set out in the margin.'
That any common carrier, railroad or transportation company receiving property for transportation from a point in one State to a point
in another State shall issue a receipt or bill of lading therefor and shall
be liable to the lawful holder thereof for any loss, damage, or injury to
such property caused by it or by any common carrier, railroad, or
transportation company to which such property may be delivered, or
over whose line or lines such property may pass, and no contract, receipt, rule, or regulation shall exempt such common carrier, railroad,
or transportation company from the liability hereby imposed: Provided,
That nothing in this section sha deprive any holder of such receipt
or bill of lading of any remedy or right of action which he has under
existing law.
That the common carriEr, railroad or transportation company issuing
such receipt or bill of lading shall be entitled to recover from the common carrier, railroad or transportation company on whose line the
loss, damage or injury shall have been sustained, the amount of such
ma.y be required to pay to the owners of
loss, damage, or injury, as it.
.such property, ast may be evidenced by any receipt, judgment, or
transcript thereof.

- OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

This amendment came under consideration in Atlantic
Coast Line v. Riverside Mills, 219 U. S. 186, but the opinion and judgment was confined to that provision of the
act which made the initial carrier liable for a loss upon
the line of a connecting carrier, the property having been
received under a bill of lading which confined the liability
of the initial carrier to loss occurring upon its own line.
The significant and dominating features of that amendment are these:
First: It affirmatively requires the initial carrier to
issue "a receipt or bill of lading therefor," when it receives
"property for transportation from a point in one State to
a point in another."
Second; Such initial carrier is made "liable to the lawful
holder thereof for any loss, damage, or injury to such
property caused by it."
Third: It is also made liable for any loss, damage, or
injury to such property caused by "any common carrier,
railroad or transportation company to which such property may be delivered or over whose line or lines such
property may pass."
Fourth: It affirmatively declares that "no contract, receipt, rule or regulation shall exempt such common carrier, railroad, or transportation company from the liability
hereby imposed."
Prior to that amendment the rule of carrier's liability,
for an interstate shipment of property, as enforced in both
Federal and state courts, was either that of the general
common law as declared by this court and enforced in the
Federal courts throughout the United States, Hart v.
Pennsylvania Railroad, 112 U. S.331; or that determined
by the supposed public policy of a particular State,
Pennsylvania Railroad v. Hughes, 191 U. S. 477; or that
prescribed by statute law of a particular State, Chicago
&c. Railroad v. Solan, 169 U. S. 133.
Neither uniformity of obligation nor of liability was

ADAMS EXPRESS CO. v. CRONINGER.
226 U. S.

505

Opinion of the Court.

possible until Congress should deal with the subject. The
situation was well depicted by the Supreme Court of
Georgia in Southern Pacific: Co. v. Crenshaw, 5 Ga. App.
675, 687, 63 S. E. Rep. 865, where that court said:
"Some States allowed carriers to exempt themselves
from all or a part of the common law liability, by rule,
regulation, or contract; others did not; the Federal courts
sitting in the various States were following the local rule,
a carrier being held liable in one court when under the
same state of facts he would be exempt from liability in
another; hence this branch of interstate commerce was
being subjected to such a diversity of legislative and judicial holding that it was practically impossible for a shipper
engaged in a business that extended beyond the confines
of his own State, or for a carrier whose lines were extensive,
to know without considerable investigation and trouble,
and even then oftentimes with but little certainty, what
would be the carrier's actual responsibility as to goods
delivered to it for transportation from one State to another. The congressional action has made an end to this
diversity; for the national law is paramount and supersedes
all state laws as to the rights and liabilities and exemptions
created by such transaction. This was doubtless the purpose of the law; and this purpose will be effectuated, and
not impaired or destroyed by the state court's obeying
and enforcing the provisions of the Federal statute where
applicable to the fact in such cases as shall come before
them."
That the legislation supersedes all the regulations and
policies of a particular Statei upon the same subject results
from its general character. It embraces the subject of the
liability of the carrier under a bill of lading which he must
issue and limits his power to exempt himself by rule,
regulation or contract. Almost every detail of the subject
is covered so completely that there can be no rational
doubt but that Congress intended to take possession of

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

the subject and'supersede all state regulation with reference to it. Only the silence of Congress authorized the
exercise of the police power of the State upon the subject
of such contracts. But when Congress acted in such a
way as to manifest a purpose to exercise its conceded authority, the regulating power of the State ceased to exist.
Northern Pacific Ry. v. State of Washington, 222 U. S.
370; Southern Railway v. Reid, 222 U. S. 424; Mondou v.
Railroad, 223 U. S. 1.
To hold that the liability therein declared may be increased or diminished by local regulation or local views of
public policy will either make the provision less than
supreme or indicate that Congress has not shown a purpose to take possession of the subject. The first would be
unthinkable and the latter would be to revert to the uncertainties and diversities of rulings which led to the
amendment. The duty to issue a bill of lading and the
liability thereby assumed are covered in full, and though
there is no reference to the effect upon state regulation, it
is evident that Congress intended to adopt a uniform rule
and relieve such contracts from the diverse regulation to
which they had been theretofore subject.
What is the liability imposed upon the carrier? It is a
liability to any holder of the bill of lading which the
primary carrier is required to issue "for any loss, damage
or injury to such property caused by it," or by any connecting carrier to whom the goods are delivered. The
suggestion that an absolute liability exists for every loss,
damage or injury, from any and every cause, would be to
make such a carrier an absolute insurer and liable for unavoidable loss or damage though due .to uncontrollable
forces. That this was the intent of Congress is not conceivable. To give such emphasis to the words, "any loss
or damage," would be to ignore the qualifying words,
"causedby it." The liability thus imposed is limited to
"any loss, injury or damage caused by it or a succeeding

ADAMS EXPRESS (C0. v. CRONINGER.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

carrier to whom the property may be delivered," and
plainly implies a liability for some default in its common
law duty as a common carrier.
But it has been argued that the non-exclusive character
of this regulation is manifested by the proviso of the section, and that state legislation upon the same subject is
not superseded, and that the holder of any such bill of
lading may resort to any right of action against such a
carrier conferred by existing state law. This view is
untenable. It would result ia the nullification of the regulation of a national subject and operate to maintain the
confusion. of the diverse regulation which it was the purpose of Congress to put an end to.
What this court said of § 22 of this act Of 1906 in the
case of Texas & Pac. Ry. v. Abilene Cotton Mills, 204 U. S.
426, is applicable to this contention. It was claimed that
that section continued in force all rights and remedies
under the common law or other statutes. But this court
said of that contention what must be said of the proviso
in § 20, that.it was "evidently only intended to continue
in existence such other rights or remedies for the redress
of some specific wrong or injury, whether given by the
Interstate Commerce.Act, or by state statute, or common
law, not inconsistent with the rules and regulations prescribed by the provisions of this act." Again, it was said,
of the same clause, in the same case, that it could "not in
reason be construed -as continuing in a shipper a. common
law 'right the existence of which would be inconsistent
with -the provisions of the act. In other words, the act
cannot be said to destroy itself.".
To construe this proviso as preserving to the holder of
any sudh bill of lading any right or remedy which he may
have had under existing Federal law at the time of his
action, gives to it a more rational interpretation than one
which would preserve iights and remedies under existing
state laws, for the latter view would cause the proviso to

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

destroy the act itself. One illustration would be a right
to a remedy against a.succeeding carrier, in preference to
proceeding against the primary carrier, for a loss or damage incurred upon the line of the former. The liability of
such succeeding carrier in the route would be that imposed
by this statute, and for which the first carrier might have
been made liable.
We come now to the question of the validity of the provision in the receipt or bill of lading limiting liability to the
agreed value of fifty dollars, as shown therein. This limiting clause is in these words:
"In consideration of the rate charged for carrying said
property, which is regulated by the value thereof and is
based upon a valuation of not exceeding fifty dollars unless
a greater value is declared, the shipper agrees that the
value of said property is not -more than fifty dollars, unless
a greater value is stated herein, and that the company
shall not be liable in any event for more than the value so
stated, nor for more than fifty dollars if no value is stated
herein."
The answer states that the schedules which the express
company had filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission showed rates based upon valuations; and that the
lawful and established rate,. for such a shipment as that
made by the plaintiff from Cincinnati to Augusta, having
a value not in excess of fifty dollars, was twenty-five cents,
while for the same package if its value had been declared
to be one hundred and twenty-five dollars, the amount for
which the plaintiff sues as the actual value, the lawful
charge according to the rate filed and published would
have been fifty-five cents. It is further averred that the
package was sealed, and its contents and actual value
unknown to the defendant's agent.
That no inquiry was made as to the actual value is not
vital to the fairness of the agreement in this case. The
receipt which was. accepted showed that the charge made

ADAMS EXPRESS CO. v. CRONINGER.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

was based upon a valuation of fifty dollars unless a greater
value should be stated therein. The knowledge of the
shipper that the rate was based upon the value is to be
presumed from the terms of the bill of lading and of the
published schedules filed with the Commission. That
presumption is strengthened by the fact that across the
top of this bill of lading there was this statement in
bold type, "This Company's charge is based upon the
value of the property, which must be declared by the
shipper."
That a common carrier cannot exempt himself from
liability for his own negligence or that of his servants is
elementary. York Mfg. Co. v. Illinois Central Railroad,
3 Wall. 107; Railroad Company v. Lockwood, 17 Wall.
357; Bank of Kentucky v. Adams Express Company, 93
U. S. 174; Hart v. Pennsyivania.Railroad,112 U. S. 331,
338. The rule of the common law did not limit his liability to loss and damage due to his own negligence, or
that of his servants. That rule went beyond this and he
was liable for any loss or damage which resulted from human agency, or any cause not the act of God or the public
enemy. But the rigor of this liability might be modified
through any fair, reasonable aid just agreement with the
shipper which did not include exemption against the
negligence of the carrier or his servants. The inherent
right to receive a compensation commensurate with the
risk involved the right to -protect himself from fraud and
imposition by reasonable rules and regulations, and the
right to agree upon a rate proportionate to the value of
the property transported.
It has therefore become an established rule of the common law as declared by this court in many cases .that
such a carrier may by a fair, open, just and reasonable
agreement limit the amount recoverable by a shipper in
case of loss or damage to an agreed value made for the
purpose of obtaining the lower of two or more rates of

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S."

charges proportioned to the amount of the risk. York
Mfg. Co. v. Railroad, 3 Wall. 107; Railroad v. Lockwood,
17 Wall. 357; Hart v. Pennsylvania Railroad, cited above;
Phoenix Ins. Co. v. Erie & W. Trans. Co., 117 U. S. 312,
322; Steam Co. v. Phenix Ins. Co., 129 U. S. 397, 442;
New York, L. E. & W. Ry. v. Estill, 147 U. S. 591, 619;
Primrose v. W. U. Tel. Co., 154 U. S. 1, 15; Chicago &c.
Ry. v. Solan, 169 U. S. 133, 135; Calderonv. Atlas Steamship Company, 170 U. S. 272, 278; Pennsylvania Railroad
v. Hughes, 191 U. S. 477, 485.
That such a carrier might fix his charges somewhat in
proportion to the value of the property is quite as reasonable and just as a rate measured by the character of the
shipment. The principle is that the charge should bear
some reasonable relation, to the responsibility, and that
the care to be exercised shall be in some degree measured
by the bulk, weight, character and value of the property
carried.
Neither is it conformable to plain principles of justice
that a shipper may understate the value of his property
for the purpose of reducing the rate, and then recover a
larger value in case of loss. Nor does a limitation based
upon an agreed value for the purpose of adjusting the
rate conflict with any sound -principle of public policy.
The reason for the legality of such agreements is well
stated in Hart v. Pennsylvania Railroad, cited above,
where it is said (p. 340):
"The limitation as to value has no tendency to exempt
from liability for negligence. It 'does not induce want of
care. It exacts from the carrier the measure of care due
to the value, agreed on. The carrier is bound to respond
in that value for negligence. The compensation for carriage is based on that value. The shipper is estopped
from saying that the value is greater. The articles have
no greater value, for the purposes of the contract of transportation, between the parties to that contract. The

ADAMS EXPRESS CO. v. CRONINGER.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

carrier must respond for negligence up -to that value. It
is just and reasonable that such a contract, fairly entered
into, and where there is no deceit practiced on the shipper,
should be upheld. There is no violation of public policy.
On the contrary, it would be unjust and unreasonable,
and would be repugnant to the soundest principles of fair
dealing and of the freedom of contracting, and thus in
conflict with public policy, if a shipper should be allowed
to reap the benefit of the contract if there is no loss, and
to repudiate it in case of loss."
The statutory liability, aside from responsibility for
the default of a connecting carrier in the route, is not
beyond the liability imposed by the common law as that
body of law applicable to carriers has been interpreted by
this court as well as many courts of the States. -i'eenwald
v. Barrett, 199 N. Y. 170, 175; Bernard v. Adams Express
Co., 205 Massachusetts, 254, 259. The exemption forbidden is, as stated in the case last cited, "a statutory declaration that a contract of exemption from liability for negligence is against public policy and void." This is no more
than this court, as well as other courts administering the
same general common law, have many times declared.
In the same case, just such a stipulation as that here involved was upheld, the court saying (p. 259):
"But such a contract as we are considering in this case
is not an exemption from liability for negligence in the
management of property, within the meaning of the
statute.: It is a contract as to what the property is, in
reference to its value. The purpose of it is not to change
the nature of the undertaking of the common carrier, .or
limit his obligation in the care and management of that
which is entrusted to him. It is to describe and define
the subject matter' of the contract, so far as the parties
care to define it, for the purpose of showing of what value
that is which comes into the carrier's possession, and for
which he must account in the performance of his duty

512

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

-

226 U. S.

as a carrier. It is not in any proper sense a contract exempting him from liability for the loss, damage or injury
to the property, as the shipper describes it in stating its
value for the purpose of determining for what the carrier
shall be accountable upon his undertaking, and what
price the shipper shall pay for the service and for the
risk of loss which the carrier assumes."
In Greeniwald v. Barrett, cited above, the same conclusion was reached as to the nature of the liability imposed
and the purport of the exemption forbidden, the court,
among other things, saying:
"The language of the enactment does not disclose any
intent to abrogate the right of common carriers to regulate
their charges for carriage by the value of the goods or to
agree with the shipper upon a valuation of the property
carried. It has been the uniform practice of transportation companies in this country to make their charges
dependent upon the value of the property carried and the
propriety of this practice and the legality of contracts
signed by the shipper agreeing upon a valuation of the
property were distinctly upheld by the Supreme Court of
the United States in Hart v. Penn. R. R. Co., 112 U. S. 331,
341."
To the same effect are the cases of Travis v. Wells,
Fargo Co.,"79 N. J. L. 83; Fielder v. Adams Express Co.,
69 W. Va. 138; S. C., 71 S. E. Rep. 99; Larsen v. Oregon
Short Line, 38 Utah, 130; S. C., 110 Pac. Rep. 983. See
also, Atkinson v. New York Transfer Co., 76 N. J. L. 608,
as to the general rule.
That a carrier rate may be graduated by value and that
a stipulation limiting recovery to an agreed value made
to adjust the rate is recognized by the Interstate Commerce -Commission, see 13I. C. C. Rep. 550.
We therefore reach the conclusion that the provision of
the act forbidding exemptions from liability imposed by
the act is not violated by the contract here in question.-

C., B. & Q. RY. v. MILLER.
226 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

The demurrer to the answer of the defendant below
should have been overruled.
For this reason the judgment is reversed, with direction to
overrule the demurrer, and for such further proceedings
as are not inconsistent with this opinion.

CHICAGO, BURLINGTON & QUINCY RAILWAY
COMPANY v. MILLER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEBRASKA.
No. 17.

Argued March 8, 1912; reargued October 22, 1912.-Decided
January 6, 1913.

Adams Express Company v. Croninger, ante, p. 491, followed to the
effect that the Carmack Amendment of the Hepburn Act of June 29,
1906, regulating liability of interstate carriers, superseded all state
regulations on the same subject.
85 Nebraska, 458, reversed.
THE facts, which involve the validity under the Carmack Amendment of schedules of rates based upon value
and the extent of the liability of the carrier on bills of
lading, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Arthur R. Wells and Mr. Robert B. Scott for plaintiff inerror.
Mr. Edwin E. Squires and Mr. H. M. Sullivan, with
whom Mr. Norris Brown was on the brief, for defendant
inerror:
The Carmack Amendment to the Hepburn Act of
June 29, 1906, does not abrogate the Iowa rule that the
company can in no way limit its liability, but on the contrary incorporates that rule into the body of the Federal
voL. ccxxvi-33

