OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

226 U. S.

.n error is not treated differently from any other seller of
*land in his situation. This is the. test of the application
of the equal protection clause of the Constitution of the
United States..
Plaintiff in error further charges that the Supreme Court
of the State refused to give full faith and credit to the
acts and records of Colorado. The contention was not
"made in the court below and cannot be made here. The
Same cIomment is, applicable to the contention that privileges and immunities of plaintiff in.error as a citizen of the
United States are abridged. We may say of the contentions that. they are but' a repetition of the view that the
laW of Colorado and not that of Minnesota governs ihe
contract. And we may say further it is well settled that
a corporation cannot claim the protection of the clause of
the Fourteenth Amendment which secures the privileges
and immunities of citizens-of the United States against
abridgment or impairment by the law of a State. Weslern
Turf Asso. v. .,eenberg, 204 U. S.359.
Judginent affirmed.
THE CHIEF JusTIcm

andi MR JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

dissent..

TAYLOR v._ COLUUMBIAN UNIVERSITY (NOW
-KNOWN IN LAW, AS GEORGE 'WA$HINGTON
UNIVERSITY).
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE. DISTRICT

OF COLUMBIA.
No. 4i. Argued November 6, 1912.-Decided December 2, 1912.
A'devise and bequest to a university to establish an endowment fund
for.free edtication of young men for preparation for entrance to the
United States Naval Academy. or to fit then to become mates or
masters in the Merchant Marine Service of .the United States,'held

TAYLOR v. COLUMBIAN UNIVERSITY.
226 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

in this case to create a charitable trust that is capable of execution
and one which is not void as too indefinite for execution.
Where testator names one institution to, carry out a trust and names
another as alternate in case the former shall not be able to perform,
the court will not declare the trust impossible of execution on account of the failure of the first-named institution to carry it out until
after the second named has also tried and failed.
Conclisions as to facts reached by two lower, courts will not be disturbed by this court unless manifestly erroneous.
In establishing an educational endowment fund the words "Merchant
Marine Service of the United States" have a definite meaning sufficient to sustain the trust.
25 App. D.C. 124, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the construction and validity
of a testamentary trust, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Henry E. Davis, with whom Mr. J. K. M. Norton
was on the.,brief, for appellants:
. The devise does not create a charitable trust.
Admiral Powell made no gift for education. He made
a gift for the Navy of the United States. It must be apparent that his purpose was not to aid any university, or
any of its branches, nor to aid education; his sole purpose
and object, as he expressly declared, was--" to make some
contribution to the Navy of the United States."
The carrying out of the bequest in the way designated,
cannot, in any way, help the Navy, which was the sole
object of his bounty.
The Court of Appeals construed the bequest as a sort
of educational trust, and so sustained it, as a charity,
citing As authority Vidal, v. Girard, 2 How. 127; Ould v.
Washington Hospital, 95 U. S. 303; Spear v. Whitney, 24
App. D. C. 187.
Ineach of these cases, howe ver, the intent,was to create
a charity, and the thing created was a 'charity. The
Powell bequest was nothing like these cases.
The court fell into the erro:r of supposing that: Admiral
Powell intended to aid in education of some sort. If this

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Appellants.

226 U. S.

had been his purpose he would have created an endowment, the income therefrom to be used to give such free
instruction as he might designate.
The bequest does not come under the broadest definition of charitable bequests. Words and Phrases, 1075.
If it does not appear from the instrument that the
donor intended a general public charity, it will not be
carried out at all, if,
by reason of its uncertainty or otherwise; it cannot be so carried out as to accomplish the
object specified by the donor. Kain v. Gibboney, 101
U. S. 362; Stratton v. .Physio-Med. College, 149 Massachusetts, 505; and see Desty's note to this case, 5 L. R.
A. 35; People v. Powers, 147 N. Y'. 104.
In England, inder the law of charitable uses, bequests
for charity have been sustained; whilst benevolent gifts,
without a designated beneficiary, have been held too
indefinite, and therefore void. See Norris v. Thompson,
19 N. J. Eq. 307; Perry on Trusts, ยง 709; In re Randell, 38
Ch. D. 213 (Eng., 1888); Re Prison Charities, 16 Eq.
-129 (Eng., 1873);Story on Eq. Jur., ยง.1182.
The devise in question, made for the definite purpose

of helping,the Navy or paying a debt to the marine profession, can in no way accomplish the sole purpose of the
gift, and so must faiL,
If the devise be held to be a charitable trust, it is yet
too uncertain and indefinite to be carried out. Under the
devise it is uncertain what young men are to partake of
the benefit; no method nor plan for the selection of the
beneficiaries is prescribed or provided.
There has never been a bequest that more absolutely'
or perfectly fulfilled all the conditions of a void bequest.
Norcross v. Murphy, 44 N. J. Eq. 522; Tilden v. Green, 130
"N.Y.
29..
If.the charity is general and indefinite and no plan or
scheme, is prescribed, and no discretion is given to select.
the beneficiaries, 'it
does not admit of judicial administra-

TAYLOR v. COLUMBIAN UNIVERSITY.
226 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

tion. The will should prescribe some mode. of selection,
or give some person discretionary power to select. Fairfield v. Lawson, 50 Connecticut, 501, 513; Beardsley v.
Bridgeport, 53 Connecticut, 489; Hughes v. Daly, 49 Connecticut, 34; White v. Fiask, 22 Connecticut, 30, 53;
Grimes v. Harmon, 35 Indiana, 198; Church v. Mott, 7
Paige, 77; Goodell v. Union Asso., 29 N. J. Eq. 32.
In South Carolina the English doctrine of charities has
been generally accepted, but there, as in England and in
the other States of this country, where a particular
charity has not been specified, but the charity is of a
general nature, without the appointment of trustees to
select the beneficiaries, the courts will not devise a scheme
for carrying it out. Atty. Generalv. Jolly, 1 Rich. Eq. 99;
Gibson v. McCall, 1 Rich. 174.
In Tennessee charitable bequests are upheld quite
broadly. Green v. Allen, 5 Humph. 204; State v. Smith,
16 Lea, 662; State v. Ellison, 4 Baxt. 99; 2 Cold. 80; 1
Swan. 360; 7 Heisk. 694.
But the Supreme Court of that State has held that the
beneficiary of the trust, or the class that is to take, must
be designated by the testator, so that some one or class
will have the. right to compel the enforcement. Johnson
v. Johnsonj 92 Tennessee, 571.
In Maryland the piinciple is clearly recognized and
firmly established, that a trust,*to be upheld, must be of
such a nature that the cestuis que trust are defined and
are capable of' enforcing its execution by proceedings in a
court of chancery. Mau ht, Ext., v. Getzendanner, 65
Maryland, :529, 533; S. C., 72 Maryland, 67; M. E.
Church v. Smith, 56 Maryland, 362; Dashiell v. Atty.
Genl., 5 Harris and Johnson, 392, and 6 H. and J. 1;
Yingling v. Miller, 77 Maryland, 104; Rizer v. Perry, 58
Maryland, 112; Needles v. Martin, 33 Maryland, 609;
Wheeler V. Smith, 9 How. 55; Trinity M. E. Church v.
Baker, 91 Maryland, 539 (decided June, 1900); and see
VOL.. cCxxvI-:9

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

Prattv. Sheppard, 88 Maryland, 610, which reviews all the
Maryland decisions above cited, and Gambell v. Trippe,
75 Maryland, 252; Barnum v. Mayor of Baltimore, 62
Maryland, 275, 292.
The Maryland decisions have been followed by the
courts, in .the District of Columbia, and they expound
the principles as held by our courts in all cases like the
one at bar. Long v. Gloyd, 25 Wash. Law Rep. 50; Coltman v. Moore, 1 MacArthur, 197. The trustee has not
been able to -carry out the trust sO as to accomplish the
purpose of the testator.
Mr. Walter C. Clephane for appellees.
MR. JUSTME MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
court.
Suit by appellants as heirs of Levin M. Powell to declare
void a trust created by his Will and-to recover certain real
estate held by the George Washington University, the
legal successor of the Columbian University.
Levin M. Powell was, when he made his 'will, an admiral in the United States.Navy on the retired list. The
clause which creates the' trust -is as follows:
"Item: Fifth, it being my wish and desire to make some
contribution to the Navy of. the United States, of which
I have been for so many years, I hope, a worthy member,
and so in a measure to pay off the debt I feel I owe the
honorable profession I have pursued through a long lifetime,
'and
to that end to establish in the Columbian University
in the
District of Columbia, in 'a manner
most conducive for that purpose, a means for the education of
such young men as may' be willing to profit therefrom in
the branches of education best fitted to prepare them for
officers of the line in the Navy of the United States, or
for the places of mates or captains in the merchant marine

TAYLOR v. COLUMBIAN .TNIVERSITY.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

service of the United States. I do hereby give, devise, and
bequeath to the said Columbian University and its successors all those certain piecesor parcels of ground situate
. .in trust
and lying in said city of Washington,.
for the purposes following, and for no other purpose
whatever-that is, in trust to create an endowment to be
known as the Admiral Powell endowment, and with that.
view to'take the said property, and the same to rent from
year to year .or to lease for a term of years as to the
trustees and overseers of said university shall seem best;
and the rents, issues, and profits arising therefrom, -after
first paying out of the same the taxes, insurance, repairs,
and other expenses, to devote as far as the same will go,
under such regulations as to the said trustees and, overseers may'seem best, to the free education of such young
men as may desire to take advantage of the said endowment by way of their preparation for entrance into the
Naval Academy at Annapolis, Maryland,. or such as may
fit them to become mates or masters in the merchant
marine service of the United States, such preparation to
be confined in the case ,of each young man so embracing
the advantages of the said.' endowment to one: year; and
to include principally the studies following, -that is to
say, arithmetic, geometry, trigonometry, and astronomy,
with the use of' astronomical instruments, the construction of charts,, and the applicatioh of this knowledge to
hydrographical survey by latitude and longitude, and -if
possible such study as will give to such young men a
knowledge of scientific voyages of discovery, and other
matters relating to ,war and commerce on the high seas;
and it is further my desire: that this endowment shall, if
possible, embrace in its benefits such apprentices as, having filled their time in the great steam manufactory establishments of the country, may apply for appointment
from. civil, life in the steam engineer department of the
United States Navy, to such'I would like to have a year's

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

education afforded under such regulations as the president and faculty of the university rnay think proper.
And should it at any time for any reason be impossible to
carry into effect the trusts, provisions, and conditions
having relation to and herein imposed upon this bequest
by me made for the creation of the endowment described
on the part of the said Columbian University, or should
it be made manifest at any time. that the said trust is not
being administered in accordance with my wishes and
desires, and in conformity with the conditions specified,
then and in such case it is my will and desire that the said
endowment shall be placed in other hands, and to that end,
and upon the happening of the contingency mentioned, I
do hereby give, devise and bequeath the said property to
the Johns Hopkins University of Baltimore, in the State
of Maryland, and its successors, to be taken and held by
the said university or the officers thereof proper for that
purpose, upon the trusts and for the purposes hereinbefore
particularly set forth in the bequest of said property to
the Columbian University, in such manner that the purposes of the said endowment as by me indicated may be
fully carried into effect."
The bill alleges that the Columbian University, supposing it had the right to execute the trust, took possession of
the property and has let it to various tenants, and for
more than sixteenyears has issued a catalogue publishing
its classes, the names of all of its students, instructors and
officers, and the many and various schools of education
it maintains, and that the catalogue is widely circulated
throughout the United States. The University has, it is
alleged, for a like period advertised "The Powell Scholarship,' and notwithstanding the wide circulation of the
advertisement the University has been unable to execute
the trust.
It is alleged that the devise is so indefinite and the trust
intended to be created so uncertain of its objects and sub-

TAYLOR" v. COLUMBIAN UNIVERSITY. 226 U. S.

133

Opinion of the Court.

jects that it ie impossible of execution by the Columbian
University, or by the Johns Hopkins University, and has
in no wise been executed by either of them; and that
therefore the trust is wholly void and of no effect. The
collection of the ri-ents and profits by the Columbian
University is alleged. It was prayed that the trust be
declared void and that the Columbian University be
required to account for the rents and profits collected
by it.
A demurrer to the bill was overruled, which ruling was
sustained by the Court of Appeals. 25 App. D. C. 124.
The Court of Appeals held that the 'devise created a
special charitable trust and that it was not void for uncertainty or incapacity of execution apparent upon its
face. The court, however, held that the nineteenth paragraph of the bill, which alleged that the impossibility of
the execution of the trust 'had been demonstrated, stated
a cause of action and remanded the case for further proceedings. Upon the return of the case to the Supreme
Court the University answered, by which it traversed the
allegations of the bill and alleged in effect that it undertook the trust and has ever since efficiently executed it.
It further alleged that its co-defendant, the Johns Hopkins University, is able, ready and Willing -to accept and
administer the trust at any time if for any reason it should
be impossible for it, the Columbian University, to administer the same, or "should fail to carry out' the trust
in that regard reposed in it."
Testimony was taken, and the trial court found from
the facts proved the following:
"First. From the testimony adduced by plaintiffs upon
this point, it appears that beginning with the scholastic
year 1885-6 (the will of Powell was probated in 1885) the
defendant. Columbian University published in its annual
catalogues that under the terms of the Admiral Powell Endowment free scholarships- would be given to a limited

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

number of pupils who were preparing for admission to the
United States Naval Academy at Annapolis. This notice
was in some issues of-the catalogue more explicit, giving
in greater detail the terms of.the trust, and in other issues
courses of study were given from which the special course
contemplated by the terms of the trust might be selected.
It further appears from the records of the University that
beginning with the scholastic year 1891-2 twenty-four
young men actually took a course of study under the
Powell Scholarships, in some cases the same man being
permitted to pursue the course for more than one year.
Of- this number at least two entered the Naval Academy.
I find nothing in the evidence showing the net income
derived by the University from the trust property, but
there is nothing to show that the full net income thereof
was not applied to the administration of the trust. I am
of the opinion that the evidence adduced is not sufficient
to demonstrate the 'incapacity' of the execution of the
trust."
Second. Granting that the testimony was sufficient
to demonstrate- the inability of the Columbian University
to execute the trust, it did not appear that the Johns
Hopkins University might not be able to do so, and that
until it "has tried and failed the court would certainly
not be justified in frustrating the intention of the testator
by bestowing the property upon" the plaintiffs, "related
so remotely to him."
The Court of Appeals practically affirmed these conclusions. The court said that while the testimony did not
show that the expectations of the testator have been fully
answered, and that it had failed "to show that the entire
net proceeds of the trust property have been devoted
exclusively to the purposes of the trust, and none other,
it was sufficient to show that the trust can be executed,
as well as that, in some measure, it is being executed."
The court said further that it was unimportant to con-

TAYLOR v,, COLUMBIAN UNIVERSITY.
226 U. S.

135'

Opini6n of the Court.

sider defects of execution of the trust by 'theColumbian'
Umiversity as that possibi]ity was contemplated by the
testator and the Johns Hopkins University appointed as
an alternate trustee, and as its ability-tb execute the triist
was asserted and not denied "it must be taken as true."
These conclusions, so far as they depend upon the testimony, not being manifestly erroneous we must. accept,
being the decisions of two courts.
The legal proposition, however, which determined the
ruling upon the demurrer and the first decision of the
Court of Appeals is open for consideration. That cQurt,
as we have seen, decided that the will created a special
charitable trust and that the trust was not void.for uncertainty or incapacity of execution apparent upon its
face. These propositions are contested. It is contended,
first, that the "object of the testator must be - clearly
charitable; and, second, the thing he directs to be done
must, in its execution, accomplish the charitable object,
in some degree at least." I[t
is argued that these eonditions are not fulfilled by the devise because, it is said, "the
testator had no idea of assisting 'either of the universities
named, or of assisting any one merely to get an education,"
and, further, that "his sole purpose, as he himself stated,
was 'to make some contribution to. the Navy of the
United States."'
The devise, We think, satisfies the tests. The object of
the testator was not 'to nVke some contribution to the
Navy of the United States." Such contribution was but"
an incidental effect, or rather, the-mere -inducement to
-the testator's benefaction. The testator's special object
was, so far as his property would accomplish it, to give to
young men, not having the pecuniary ability to prepare
themselves the opportunity to do so. -Preparatory training was necessary; he made it available, to the extent of
his means, to young men who otherwise could not bear
the expense. And he knew the conditions of appointment,

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

in whom it rested and the contingencies upon which it
depended. If the field of candidacy was limited, he knew
that he was helping some to aspire and qualify to succeed.
The knowledge and help were definite. He certainly could
not designate the individuals. That could be done, and,
necessarily was left to be done, by his trustees, one or the.
other of them. The purpose of the testator has not been
disappointed. In other words, the charitable object has
been accomplished,. "in some degree at least "-the test
which appellants apply. The finding is that at least two
out of twenty-four of those who availed themselves of the
scholarships instituted by the Columbian University entered the Naval Academy. We can suppose a better result
from a better administration of the trust.
The testator had in view another career for young men
besides -the Navy which' could be attained by the same
means, that is, "the places of mates or captains in the
Merchant Marine Service of the United States." But it
is said that "fthere is no such thing" as the Merchant
Marine Service "known to the law" and that "therefore
the meaning of the testator in this behalf is left open to
ascertainment outside of the testator's language and the
provision of the will." The criticism is too exact. The
Merchant Marine was and is a very definite and substantial thing hnd had unmistakable definition in general, if
not in legal, nomenclature. The meaning of a testator is
not required to be found in-law lexicons; the usages of
popular speech may furnish a guide to it. Besides, the
words "Merchant Marine' receive certain meaning from
their context, and it, is easy to put one's self in the place
of the sailor testator and appreciate his impulse and purpose. His relatives were remote, his property not large,
and he had been an officer in the United States Navy.
He desired to assist others to become also officers in that
service or. in a cognate service. He knew the equipment
necessary and he prescribed it. He chose proper educa-

EUBANK v. RICHMOND.
226 U. S.

Syllabus.

tional instruments to confer the equipment and to select
and qualify the candidates for the designated services.
The purpose of the testator was worthy, and there is
nothing in reason or authority which requires us to pronounce it legally insufficient.
Decree affirmed.

EUBANK v. CITY OF RICHMOND.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE
OF VIRGINIA.
No. 48.

Argued November 12, 13, 1912.-Decided December 2, 1912.

While the police power of the State extends not only to regulations promoting public health, morals and safety but also to those promoting
public convenience and general prosperity, it has its limits and must
stop when it encounters the prohibitions of the Federal Constitution.
A clash between the police power (of the State and constitutional limitations will not be lightly inferred, but the exact point of contact
cannot be determined by any general formula in advance. Hudson
Water Co. v. McCarter, 209 U. S. 349.
Governmental powers must be flexible and adaptive.
The party assailing the constitutionality of a state police statute must
clearly show that it offends constitutional guaranties in order to
justify the court in declaring it invalid.
A municipal ordinance requiring the authorities to establish building
lines on separate blocks back of the public streets and across *private
property on the request of less than all of the owners of the property
affected is not a valid exercise of police power, nor does it serve the
public safety, convenience or welfare.
Such an ordinance takes private property, not for public welfare but
for convenience of other owners of property, and deprives the person
whose property is taken of his property without due process of law
and is unconstitutional under the Fourteenth Amendment.
The ordinance of the city of Riclunond based on Chapter 349 of the
Laws of Virginia of 1908, requiring the municipal authorities to
establish building lines in any block on request of the owners of twothirds of he property is unconstitutional as an attempt to deprive
non-assenting owners of their property without due process of law.
110 Virginia, 749, reversed.

