OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Wheeler and Shaw.

226-U. S.

WHEELER v. UNITED STATES.
SHAW v. UNITED STATES.
WHEELER v. MURCHIE, UNITED STATES
MARSHAL.
SHAW v. SAME.
ERROR TO AND APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE
UNITED STATES FOR THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.
Ikos. 658, 659,'660, 661.

Submitted December 4, 1912.-Decided January 6, 1913.

An officer of a corporation is not subjected to an unreasonable search
or seizure by a subpoena to produce without ad testificandum clause
the books and papers of that corporation, nor is he subjected to selfincrimination by such subpoena and an order to produce thereunder
or deprived of his liberty without due process of law by being coptnmitted for contempt for failure to complywith such, order. Wilson
v. United States, 221'U. S. 361.
Books of a corporation are not the private books of any of the officers
and do not become so by the dissolution of the corporation and the
transfer of the books to one of such officers.
THE facts, which involve the validity under the due
process and search and seizure provisions of the Constitution of a subpena duces tecum to an officer of a corporation to produce books and papers of the corporation, are
stated in the opinion.

Mr. Nathan Matthews, Mr. William G. Thompson and
:Mr. Romney Spring for Wheeler and Shaw:"
The orders of commitment and the imprisonment thereunder have deprived the plaintiffs in error and appellants
of their liberty without diie process of law..
The subpoena imposed no legal obligation on the corporation to produce the books and papers.

WHEELER v. UNITED STATES.
226 U. S.

Argument for Wheeler and Shaw.

Even if the corporation had had any sort of existence
at the time the subpcena was issued, it would have been
under no legal obligation to produce the books and papers
therein described.
A natural person who had neither the title nor possession
of books and papers could not by any known form of
procedure be put under a legal obligation to produce them.
Ballman v. United States, 200 U. S. 186, 194.
The corporation having been lawfully dissolved and
its charter annulled had thus ceased to be subject to the
State's visitatorial powers and had no longer any special
privileges, or franchises, or right to do business as a corporation. Hale v. Henkel, 2:01 U. S. 43, 74-75.
If the subpcena imposed no legal obligation upon the
corporation to produce any books and papers, it imposed
no legal obligation upon Wheeler and Shaw individually
to do so.
The only obligation imposed upon Wheeler and, Shaw
by the serving upon them of a summons addressed to the
corporation was an obligation in their official capacity
depending wholly upon the existence of an obligation on
the part of the corporation itself to produce the books and
papers.
The summons ran directly to the corporation, and not
to Wheeler and Shaw.
The service made upon Wheeler and Shaw in their official capacity as officers of the corporation was simply
a method of enforcing the assumed obligation of the corporation, and not any obligation of theirs personally.
Commissioners v. Sellew, 99,U. S. 624, 627.
The duty imposed upon them by the service was secondary, not primary. In such a case the obligation of the
individual served is derivative and secondary, and not
individual and primary. Wilson v. United States, 221
U. S. 361; Dreier v. United States, 221 'U. S. 394; Consolidated Rendering Co. v. Vermont, 207 U. S. 541; Balti-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Wheeler and Shaw.

226 U. Si

*more & Ohio R. R. v. Int. Com. Comm., 221 U. S. 612,
622. And see In re American Sugar Refining Co., 178
Fed. Rep. 109; In re Bornn Hat Co., 184 Fed. Rep. 506,
508.
Where the summons is addressed to the corporation
itself, then, independently of that constitutional right of
the individual custodian, there can be no 'obligation on
him to produce them unless it is first shown that the
subpoena imposes an obligation upon the corporation itself to produce them.
The one advantage which the Government sought to
secure by choosing a summons addressed to the corporation itself rather than one addressed to the individual
custodian illustrates the distinction. For a corporation
is not protected by the Fifth Amendment, and a natural
person is. Hale v. Henkel, 201 U. S. 43; The Bornn Hat
Co. v. United States, 223 U. S. 713, affirming 184 Fed.
Rep. 506.
If the books and papers described in the subpoena
were the private property of appellants, the court's order
requiring their production before the grand jury, and the
judgments of contempt based'upon the disobedience of
that order, violated their rights under the Fifth Amendment not to be compelled in 'any criminal case to be a
witness against oneself, and under the Fourth Amendment to be exempt from unreasonable searches and
seizures. Boyd v. United States, 116 U. S. 616; Entick v.
Carrington,19 How. State Trials, 1029; Hillman v. United
States, 192 Fed. Rep. 264, 270; Matter of Harris,221 U. S.
274.
The subpena: was unreasonably sweeping, and this
defect was Seasonably urged by Wheeler and Shaw on
their own behalf.
If for this reason the'subpena was void as against the
corporation, it could not be valid as against Wheeler or
Shaw.

WHEELER v. UNITED STATES.
226 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

The Solicitor General and Mr. Assistant Attorney General Harr for the United States and the United States
Marshal:
The Fifth Amendment has no application because appellants were not called as witnesses.
The immunity granted by the Fifth Amendment that
no person "shall be compelled in any criminal case to be
a witness against himself," means testimonial compulsion.
3 Wigmore on Evidence, § 2263.
A person who merely produces books and papers does
not vouch for their contents, and when, as here, they
are the records of a corporation and tell its story, not his,
he is not even in effect made a witness against himself by
being compelled to produce them.
The order to produce the books of the corporation was
not an invasion of appellants' privacy within the meaning
of the Fourth Amendment.
The Fourth Amendment, as construed in Boyd v.
United States, 116 U. S. 616, merely protects a person
against an invasion of his privacy, when such invasion
will operate to incriminate him. But it is no invasion of a
man's privacy to compel him to produce the books and
papers of a corporation, whose acts, as above stated, are
necessarily subject to investigation by the State. Wilson
v. United States, 221 U. S. 374.
While the corporation may be dissolved, its records are
still subject to examination for any purpose connected
with the winding up of its affairs (Law of Massachusetts,
1903, chap. 437, § 52); and see the act of March 25, 1912,
chap. 313, pp. 210, 232.
The possession of legal title to the corporate books and
papers by appellants does not affect the character of those
documents. They are none: the less the records of the
corporation because the legal title thereto has passed to
Wheeler and Shaw as individuals. In re Grant, 198 Fed.
Rep. 708.
voL. ccxxvi-31

482

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

Legal title is immaterial upon a subpoena to produce
books or papers, because the court is entitled to them as
against anyone for the time being, and the proceeding is
not one to try title. the person subpoenaed cannot refuse
to produce the papers sought if he has not title, and if he
has title as well as possession, he is the better able to respond to the subpoena.
The rule,.both at law and in equity, that a person cannot
be compelled to produce books and papers to discover
matters which may incriminate him, is subject to the
qualification here 'contended for. See § 724, Rev. Stat.
The rule in equity that no man need discover matters
tending to criminate himself, or to expose him to a-penalty
or forfeiture, is subject to an exception in respect to frauds
and also where fiduciary relations exist. Adams' Equity,
8th ed., p. 4; State v. Maury, 2 Del. Ch. Rep. 141, 158;
Green v. Weaver, 1 Sim. Rep. 404.
Sound public policy forbids the extension, of the privilege against self-incrimination to a case involving. the
production of corporate records. 3 Wigmore,' § 2251,
p. 3102.
MR. JuSTicE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
These cases arise from the following facts: On April 12,
1912, the Federal grand jury in Boston was investigating
whether Warren B. Wheeler and Stillman'Shaw, plaintiffs
in error in Nos. 658 and 659 and appellants in Nos. 660 and
661, had, by means of a certain corporation known as
Wheeler & Shaw, Incorporated, or otherwise, violated
§ 215 of the act of Congress of March 4, 1909, 35 Stat.
1088, 1130, c. 321, making it a crime to use the mails of
the United States for a scheme to defraud, which crime is
punishable by fine or imprisonment or both. On the same
day a subpxna duces tecum, without ad testificandum
clause, was issued, summoning the corporation to appear

WHEELER v. UNITED STATES.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

before the grand jury and produce all .the cash boks,
ledgers, journals and other books of account of the company, and all copies of letters and telegrams of Wheeler
& Shaw, Incorporated, whether signed or purporting to
be signed by the corporation or by its president or treasurer in its behalf, for and covering the period from October 1, 1909, to January. 1, 1911; all the aforesaid books
and copies of letters and telegrams to be produced before
the grand jurors under the penalties of law. The subpcena was served on Wheeler as treasurer, and on Shaw
as president, of the corporation. They appeared before
the grand jury, without any of the books or correspondence, as required in the subpcena, however; asked to be
sworn for the purpose of explaining why they had not
brought them, and left with the grand jurors papers containing the following statement -of their reasons for the
non-production of the books, etc. (the records are the
same, mutatis mutandis, in the Wheeler case and the Shaw
case):

"To the Grand Jurors of the District Court of the
United States for the District of Massachusetts.
"Gentlemen: There was served upon me at 12:50 P. M.
to'-day, April 12, 1912, a subpcena addressed to Wheeler &
Shaw, Inc., a corporation doing business at Boston, in
said District, and calling upon that corporation to produce before you, presumably through me, 'all cash books,
ledgers, journals, and other books of account of said
Wheeler & Shaw, Inc., for and covering the period between
October 1, 1909, and January 1, 1911, all copies of letters
and telegrams of Wheeler & Shaw, Inc., signed or purporting to be signed by said Wheeler & Shaw, Inc., or by its
president or its treasurer in behalf of said Wheeler &
Shaw, Inc., during the months of October, November and
December, 1909, and the entire year of 1910; all the aforesaid books, copies of letters, and telegrams to be produced

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

before the Grand Jurors of said District Court in the
matter of an alleged violation of the laws of the United
States by Warren B. Wheeler and Stillman Shaw.'
"I desire to avail myself of what I understand to be my
right to state to you under oath my reasons for not producing any books, ledgers, or other papers or documents
in response to said summons. My reasons are:
"First: That I have not in my possession or custody
any cash books, ledgers, journals, or any of the other
books or things described in said subpoena which belong
to Wheeler & Shaw, Inc., or are in my possession as an
officer or agent of Wheeler & Shaw, Inc. The only cash
books, ledgers, journals, and other books, papers, and
things to which the aforesaid description in said subpoena
could apply are the personal property of myself and Stillman Shaw, and are in our personal possession, and axe not
in the possession of either of us as officers or agents of any
corporation.
"Second: Even were the fact not as stated above, I am
advised that the language of said subpoena quoted above
is so broad, sweeping, and lacking in particularity as to
constitute a violation of the rights of any party to whom
a subpoena is addressed to be exempt from unreasonable
searches and seizures under the Fourth Amendment to
the United States Constitution.
"Third: Whether addressed to said corporation or to
me personally, I am advised that said subpoena violates
the rights secured to me by the Fifth Amendment to the
Constitution of the United States not to be a Witness
against myself in any criminal case.
"I make this statement in good faith, and not intending
any disrespect to the Grand Jury, or to the officers of the
Government, and I venture to remind the Grand Jury that
I am entitled under the laws of the United States not to
have any inferences drawn against me by reason of the
action I have taken in this matter. It is one thing to pro-

WHEELER v. UNITED STATES.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

duce private books and papers in a proceeding where there
is an opportunity to explain them and to examine and
cross-examine witnesses concerning them; but the situation in an ex parte proceeding is so different that I feel sure
the Grand Jury will feel that I am justified in standing
upon my constitutional rights in this matter.
"WARREN

B. WHEELER."

The grand jurors on April 13, 1912, filed in the District
Court a paper called a petition for attachment for contempt, in which they prayed that Wheeler and Shaw be
ordered to produce the books and copies of letters and
telegrams, and upon failure or refusal be adjudged guilty
of contempt. Wheeler and Shaw appeared, filed motions
to dismiss, which were denied, and then filed sworn answers. The cases were heard by the district judge on the
grand jurors' petitions, the answers and certain agreed
facts. At the close of the hearing the court ruled that the
case was governed by Wilson v. United States, 221 U. S.
361, and ordered Wheeler and Shaw to produce the books
and papers described in the subpoena. Final orders were
entered on April 18, 1912, adjudging them in contempt
and committing them to the custody of the marshal until,
by producing before the grand jury the books and copies
of letters and telegrams they should cease to obstruct and
impede the corporation known as Wheeler & Shaw, Incorporated, from complying with the subpoena duces tecum
or otherwise purge themselves of their contempt.
From these judgments Wheeler and Shaw sued out
writs of error, which constitute cases Nos. 658 and 659.
They also filed petitions for writs of habeas corpus against
the marshal, and from the orders denying the petitions
they appealed to this court, and these cases constitute
Nos. 660 and 661.
Upon the hearing the district judge made certain findings of fact, as follows:

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

"1. A subpoena, of which a copy with a copy of the
officer's return thereon is annexed to said petition, was
served upon the defendant on the twelfth day of April,
A. D. 1912.
"2. The corporation mentioned in the statute of the
Commonwealth of Massachusetts which took effect on
March 25, 1912, being Statute 1912, Chapter 313, and
therein described by the words 'Wheeler and Shaw, Inc.,'
is the same corporation that is mentioned in said subpcena. [By the statute the corporation was dissolved and
its charter annulled.]
"3. On the afternoon of said April 12th the defendant
appeared before said Grand Jury in response to said subpcena, and thereupon the questions, of which a copy is
annexed to said petition, were put to him, and answers, as
stated in the copy of the same annexed to said petition,
were made by him, and the written statement, of which a
copy is annexed to said petition, was left by him with
said Grand Jury. The defendant did not bring with him
or have before said Grand Jury any of the books and
copies of letters and telegrams described in said subpoena. He did, when before said Grand Jury, ask to be
sworn for the purpose of stating the reasons why he had
not brought with him any of said books and copies of
letters and telegrams; but he was not sworn. He did not
waive or intend to waive his claim of a right to be sworn
before said Grand Jury for the purpose aforesaid.
"4. Some time in the month of April, 1911, said corporation Wheeler & Shaw, Inc., ceased to do business, and
shortly afterwards the legal title and possession of all the
books and papers of said corporation then belonging to
it, including all the books and copies of letters and telegrams described in the subpoena, were lawfully transferred
to the defendant and to one Stillman Shaw as tenants in
common, and have ever since remained in the defendant
and said Shaw. Prior to the time when said statute of

WHEELER v. UNITED STATES.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

1912, Chap. 313 [dissolving the corporation], took effect,
the defendant was the treasurer of said corporation, and
said Shaw was the president thereof, and neither the defendant nor said Shaw has ever resigned his said office in,
said corporation."
Wheeler and Shaw also took bills of exceptions, in which''
it appears that the cases were heard upon the petitions,
sworn answers and certain facts admitted by counsel in
open court, which are set out and incorporated in the
finding of fact appearing of record, and in which it is
further made to appear that defendants at the hearing
before the court repeated the claim set up by them before
the grand jury that a compliance with the subpwma duces tecum would violate their right to be secure against unreasonable searches and seizures under the Fourth Amendment of the United States Constitution, and their right.
not to be compelled to be witnesses against themselves
in any criminal case under the protection of the Fifth
Amendment.. They also asked the court to rule that such
order would violate their rights under the Massachusetts
constitution. The court overruled all of the objections of
defendants and held, as a matter of law, that the legal
effect of dissolving the corporation and transferring to the
defendants the books and copies of letters and telegrams
described in the subpcena had not been to make the books
and papers the private property of the defendants in such
sense as to exempt them from producing such books and
correspondence before the grand jury, as -required by the
subpcena, and that the facts of the cases brought them within the rule of this court in Wilson v. United States, supra.
The defendants reduce their contentions in this court
to two propositions, namely:
"I. The orders of commitment and the imprisonment
thereunder have deprived the plaintiffs in error and appellants [referred to in this opinion as defendants] of their.
liberty without due process of law.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

"II. If, as is agreed, the books and papers described in
the subpcena were the private property of the plaintiffs
in error and appellants, then the court's order requiring
their production before the grand jury, and the judgments
of contempt based upon the disobedience of that order,
violated the right of each plaintiff in error and appellant
under the Fifth Amendment not to be compelled in any
criminal case to be a witness against himself, and the
right of each under the Fourth Amendment to be exempt
from unreasonable searches and seizures."
The proposition that the orders of the court of commitment and imprisonment deprived defendants* of their
liberty without due process of law seems to be based upon
the contention that the corporation was in no way obliged
to obey the subpcena, and that, after its dissolution, it
was not subject to any subpcena requiring the production
of books and papers before the grand jury. But we do
not think there is any merit in this objection. If the
Government had the legal right to demand the production
of the books and papers in question, with a view to the
investigation of the alleged offense of Wheeler and Shaw
in the proceedings before the grand jury, whether the
subpcena was drawn in proper form or not or whether the
corporation, in view of its dissolution, could have been
compelled to comply with its requirements, in the attitude
which the case has taken, is immaterial. It is apparent
from the facts already recited that Wheeler and Shaw were
required by the subpoena duces tecum to bring before the
grand jury the books and papers of the corporation which
had been dissolved and that they so understood the subpcena; that they were in possession of such books and
papers which could be by them produced before the
grand jury, and that before the order of commitment
was made the defendants were allowed a full hearing in a
court of competent jurisdiction. No objection was taken
to the technical form of. the subpcena in directing it to

WHEELER v. UNITED STATES.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the corporation and not the individuals. There is nothing
to show it was so broad as to be objectionable, as was
indicated of the subpoena in Hale v. Henkel, 201 U. S. 43.
The defendants, in possession of the books and papers,
were denying the right of the court to compel their production because of the dissolution of the corporation;
because the title and possession of the books and papers
had passed to the defendants individually and were their
private property as tenants in common, and they had no
possession or custody of the documents as officers of the
corporation, and because, as against them, the compulsory
production of such books and correspondence would violate their rights under the Fourth and Fifth Amendments
to the Constitution of the United States.
We think the questions of substance now presented are
whether the rights of the defendants as individuals to
be exempt from unreasonable search and seizure of their
property and from being compelled to be witnesses against
themselves would be violated by the compulsory produc-tion of the documents in question.
. We are of opinion that this case is virtually ruled
by
Wilson v. United States, supra. In that case it was held
that there was no unreasonable search or seizure where
the officer of a corporation, whose guilt of an offense
against the laws of the United States was under investigation, was compelled to produce books and papers of
the corporation of which he was president, because as
against the corporation, the true owner of the books
and papers, their production might lawfully be compelled,
and that there was no self-incrimination of such officer,
because he was not compelled to produce his private
books, but the books of the corporation, which were not
within the protection given to the private books and
papers of an individual. We are unable to see that this
case differs in )rinciple from that one. It is true the
corporation in the present case had ceased to exist, but

OCTOBER TERM, '1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

its books and papers were still in existence arid were still
impressed with the incidents attending corporate documents. Wheeler and Shaw had been officers of the corporation and the books of the company had before the
dissolution been made over to them; but this did not
change the essential character of the books and papers or
make them any more privileged in the investigation of
crime than they were before.
Wheeler and Shaw, it may be admitted,
could no longer
be officers of the corporation, although*the record shows
that they had never resigned their positions. The corporation, however, had gone out of existence, leaving its -books
and papers in the possession of the defendants, and, it
may be conceded, for many purposes such books belonged
to them, but, as was held in the Wilson Case, the privilege
of the Constitution against unreasonable searcl~es and
seizure does not protect against the lawful examination
in due course of books of this character;,nor does the
privilege of individuals against self-incrimination'in the
production of their own books and papers prevent the
compulsory production of the books of, a corporation
with which they happen to bor have been associated.
It was the character of the books and papers as corporate
records and documents which justified the court in ordering their production, as this court ruled in the Wilson
Case. We think the character of the books was not changed
for this purpose, because the corporation had gone out of
existence after making over the books to the defendants.
Such books and papers still remained subject to inspection and investigation, and no constitutional 'right of the
defendants was violated when, being found in possession
of the documents, they were required to produce- them
for inspection by the grand jury. It follows that the
judgments of commitment in Nos. 658 and .659 and the
orders appealed from in'Nos. 660 and 661 should be
affirmed.

