OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

226 U. S.

MURRAY, DOING BUSINESS AS THE POCATELLO
WATER COMPANY, v. CITY OF POCATELLO.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF IDAHO.

No. 575.

Argued December 3, 4, 1912.-Decided December 16, 1912.

This court is not prepared-on the facts in this case to overrule the
highest court of a State in construing the relative powers of the
legislature and municipalities in establishing rates for water.
The Supreme Court of Idaho having held that under the Constitution
of the State the legislature has a continuing and irrevocable power
to establish the manner of fixing water rates, and that a municipality
can only grant franchises subject to that power, this court follows
that construction: and therefore held that:
A statute of the State of Idaho establishing a method for fixing water
rates is not unconstitutional under the Federal Constitution as
impairing the obligation of the contract with a water company under an ordinance of a municipality previously enacted and which
established a different method. of fixing such rates.
A court which is not empowered to grant relief whatever the merits
may be, cannot decide what the merits are, and a judgment sustaining a demurrer to and dismissing the bill on the ground of such lack
of power is not res judicata on the merits.
Where the judgment cannot be res judicata on the merits because the
court has no power to grant relief, it is not made res judicata by
reference to the opinion in which the court expresses its views.on
the merits.
21 Idaho, 180, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the constitutionality under the
contract clause of the Federal Constitution of a statute of
Idaho, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. William V. Hodges, with whom Mr. Gerald C.
Hughes, Mr. Clayton C. Dorsey, Mr. A. A. Hoehling, Jr.,

and Mr. N. M. Ruick were on the brief, for plaintiff in
error:

MURRAY v. POCATELLO.
226 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The obligation of the contract evidenced by Ordinance 86 has been impaired in violation of Article I, § 10,
of the Federal Constitution, and plaintiff in error has been
deprived of its property without due process of law, contrary to the provisions of the Fourteenth Amendment.
The Supreme Court of the State of Idaho did not give
full faith and credit to the Ainal judgment of the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Idaho, rendered in City of Pocatello v. Murray, 173 Fed. Rep. 382,
in violation of Article IV, section 1, of the Constitution,
and thereby denied the title, right, privilege and immunity
claimed by this plaintiff in error under the laws and authority of the United States.
Plaintiff in error's contention is not frivolous. The
fact that the United States District Court, and the Supreme Court of Idaho, have officially expressed diametrically opposite views upon this3 question acquits the plaintiff
in error cif the charge of bringing to this court a frivolous
and unfounded constitutional question, predicated on that
state of facts and law.
No cases in this court have disposed of questions involving the impairment of the obligations of covenants,
such as are contained in §§ 3, 4 and 5 of Ordinance No. 86,
by legislative acts such as § 2839 of Idaho Revised Code,
under like or similar constitutional provisions.
Such a condition of affairs is the strongest inducement
for this court to exercise its jurisdiction to authoritatively
conclude the question. Forsyth v. Hammond, 166 U. S.
514.
Defendant in error and the Supreme Court of Idaho
conceded that the city had the power, both inherent and
statutory, to enter into the contract, subject only to the
power of the legislature to prescribe the manner in which
maximum rates may be established.
The fixing of a rate or charge for public-service corporations is a legislative act. But no legislative officer, or

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

226 U. S.

body, has the jurisdiction to conclusively determine the
value of the plant.
There-is no limit upon the rate that may be fixed, short
of a confiscatory rate. If a company whose rates have
been fixed, believes such rates to be confiscatory, such
company may appeal to a court of equity for protection.
Then, for the first time, are the parties before a tribunal
which has power to conclusively determine the value of
the plant, and the reasonableness of the rates fixed.
Private individuals may, by covenant, provide means
for fixing the values of the subject-matter of their contracts; provide what shall be considered a reasonable,
and what an unreasonable, return on an investment made
thereunder; and such covenants are incidents of ordinary
business transactions. The parties thereto are by such
covenants estopped from contending that the facts therein
established by covenant are to the contrary thereof, or
that the method of establishing such facts should not be
observed, unless there is an element of fraud or other
element invalidating such covenants. When a city enters
into such covenants as are contained in Ordinance 86,
it likewise is exercising its business and proprietary powers
as distinguished from its legislative powers. Pike's Peak
Power Co. v. ColoradoSprings, 105 Fed. Rep. 1.
When a body authorized by law to hold a legislative
inquiry for the purpose of determining the rate charges
for public service takes jurisdiction to make such determination, it is a tribunal, and the parties to the rates are
parties to the controversy before it for determination.
Reagan v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Company, 154 U. S.
401; Cedar Rapids G. L. Co. v. Cedar Rapids, 144 Iowa,
426; Willcox v. Consolidated Gas Co., 212 U. S. 47; Prout
v. Starr, 188 U. S. 537.
The parties to any judicial proceeding may estop themselves as to the facts by a solemn agreement, stipulation or statement of facts. See Blankinship v. Oklahoma

MURRAY v. POCATELLO.
226 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Water Co., 43 Pac. Rep. 1088; 11 Columbia Law Review
(No. 6), pages 537 and 533, Mr. Edward C. Bailly's article
on "Legal Basis of Rate Regulation," 2; Des Moines v.
Welsbach Street Lighting Co., 188 Fed. Rep. 906; Ills. Trust
& Say. Bank v. Arkansas Cil'y, 76 Fed. Rep. 271.
The reservation of the power to prescribe the manner
of fixing rates ought to be construed to be consistent with
the other terms of the ordinance, and unless the reserved
power to "prescribe the manner of fixing rates" is necessarily in conflict witb the other provisions of the ordinance, it ought not to be held to justify the annulment of
such other provisions.
Before a reserved power can justify the abrogation of
an express grant from the same authority, it must clearly
appear that the exercise of the reserved power will necessarily conflict with the grant. Jack v. Grangeville, 9
Idaho, 291; Cordwal v. American Bridge Co.,. 113 U. S.
205, and L. & N. R. Co. v. Mottley, 219 U. S. 31, bear but
remotely upon the question. Wolf v. New Orleans, 103'
U. S. .358, distinguished.
The commissioners to be, appointed under § 2839 must
be taxpayers of the city, and even those which the plaintiff in error may select must be taxpayers; such a commission could not be a fair, impartial and unprejudiced
tribunal. Home Tel. & Tel. Co. v. Los Angeles, 211 U. S.
274, does not apply, as in that case the city council or
governing body were given such power.
All the questions involved are now before this court,
which possesses paramount authority to determine for
itself the existence or non-existence of the contract set
up, and whether its obligation has been impaired. Columbia W. R. Co. v. Columbia, 172 U. S. 475.
The Federal question involved has not been so often
decided that it is no longer a substantial- question in this
court. Nothing in the decisions of this court is conclusive
upon the questions. -Tampa Waterworks Co. v. Tampa,
VOL. ccxxvi-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

199 U. S. 241; Home Tel. Co. v. Los Angeles, 211 U. S.
265; L. & N. R. Co. v. Mottley, 219 U. S. 465, do not apply.
The refusal of the Supreme Court of Idaho to sustain
a plea of res judicata, based on a judgment of the Circuit
Court of the United States for the District of Idaho, presents a Federal question, under the "full faith and credit"
clause of the Constitution, and under § 709, Rev. Stat.
Ph&enix Ins. Co. v. Tennessee, 161 U. S. 185; Dowell v.
Applegate, 152 U. S. 327; Aurora City v. West, 7 Wall.
82 at 106.
That court decided that § 2839 was not enforceable
as against the provisions of Ordinance 86; and that decision became the law of the case as between the partiesres judicata. By that decision the plaintiff in error became
better assured of his right, and confirmed therein. A judgment of dismissal on demurrer, with no limitations placed
thereon, is a judgment on the merits. Durant v. Essex
Co.' 7 Wall. 107; Forsyth v. City of Hammond, 166 U. S.
506; Baker v. Cummings, 181 U. S. 125; Aurora City v.
West, supra;Swan Land & C. Co. v. Frank,148 U. S.612.
Mr. D. Worth Clark, with whom Mr. Jesse R. S. Budge,
Mr. Aldis B. Browne, Mr. Alexander Britton and Mr.
Evans Browne were on the brief, for defendant in error.
Memorandum opinion by direction' of the court.

By

MR. JUSTICE HOLMES..

This was an application by the defendant in error for a
mandate requiring the plaintiff in error,. Murray, to appoint commissioners to act with commissioners appointed
by the city in determining water rates to be charged by
Murray. Murray relied upon an ordinance of June 6,1901,
as establishing by contract the only method of fixing rates.
The city relied upon a subsequent statute, § 2839, Rev.
Code. .The Supreme Court of the State held that the

MURRAY v. POCATELLO.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Constitution in force when the ordinance was passed made
it impossible for the city to make a contract on the matter
beyond the powee of the legislature to change. The
constitution declared the use of waters distributed for a
beneficial use to be a public use and subject to the regulation and control of the State, and also declared the right
to collect rates for water to be a franchise that could not
be exercised except by authority of and in the manner
prescribed by law. It then ordained that the legislature
should provide by law the manner in which reasonable
maximum rates might be established. Article. 15, §§ 1, 2,
6. The court relied upon Tampa Water Works Co. v.
Tampa, 199 U. S. 241;.Home Telephone & Telegra'ph Co.
v. Los Angeles, 211 U. S. 265, and Louisville & Nashville
RailroadCo. v. Mottley, 219 U. S: 467, which so far sustain
its conclusion that we think further 'discussion unnecessary. We are not prepared to overrule the construction
of the legislative power as continuing and irrevocable
adopted by the Supreme Court of the State.
A defence more relied upon was res judicata. In 1909
the city brought a bill in equity in the Circuit Court seeking to have the court fix reasonable rates. The defendant
demurred for want of jurisdiction to give relief in equity
and multifariousness. The decree was that the demurrer
be sustained and the bill dismissed. The dismissal was
in general terms, but with a reference to the opinion, reported in 173 Fed. Rep. 382. In the opinion, it is true,
the court expressed the view that the ordinance relied
upon by the. defendant was not affected by the subsequent
statute, but the point decided and the only point that
could be decided was that the demurrer should be upheld
and that the court was without jurisdiction to "take
upon itself the exercise of the 'legislative or administrative' power to determine in advance what will be a reasonable schedule of water rates -for the defendant to
charge for the next three years." 173 Fed. Rep. 385. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

226 U. S.

demurrer excludes a decision upon the merits, and even
if the decree referring to it did not have the same effect
by itself, the opinion to which the decree also refers would
show the same thing. Of course if the court was not empowered to grant the relief whatever the merits might be,
it could not decide what the merits were. The two grounds
are not on the same plane, as they were in Ontario Land
Co. v. Wilfong, 223 U. S. 543, 559, and when jurisdiction
to grant equitable relief was denied the ground of the
merits could not be reached. In Forsyth v. Hammond,
166 U. S. 506, jurisdiction had been taken in the earlier
decision relied upon. Here it was refused.
Judgment affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. READING COMPANY.
TEMPLE IRON COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
READING COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEALS FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN. DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.

Nos. 198, 206, 217. Argued October 10, 11, 1911.-Decided December 16,
1912.

The United States filed a bill to enforce the provisions of the Sherman
Anti-trust Act of July 2, 1890, against an alleged combination of
railroad and coal mining companies formed to restrain competition
in the production, sale and transportation in interstate commerce
of anthracite coal. The bill alleged a general combination through
an agreement between the carrier defendants to apportion the coal
tonnage between themselves on a scale of percentages; a combination through the medium of one of the mining companies to prevent
the construction of a new competing coal carrying road from the
anthracite district to tide-water; a combination by a series of identical contracts with independent coal operators for sale of their total.
product; and certain contributory combinations between some but
not all of the defendants. The bill was filed prior to the enactment

