PITTSBURG STEEL CO. v. BALTIMORE EQ. SOC. 455
226 U. S.

Syllabus.

certainly would have been our law, and we should assume, if material, that the same doctrine would have
prevailed in Spain, in the absence of the clearest proof
to the contrary, which we do not find in the record or the
brief.
What we have said with reference to the plaintiff's
claim under the Treaty applies in substance to his argument that by ยง 14 of Act No. 166 the Spanish certificate.
is conclusive evidence of the plaintiff's title. That section must be taken to be subject to general principles of
law embodied in other sections to which we have referred.
If there was any claim intended to be put forward on
the ground of unfair competition, the prayers of the complaint and the plaintiff's testimony show that such claim
depended fundamentally on the alleged infringement of
trade-mark. Any matters of fact in dispute were sufficiently disposed of by the concurrent findings of the
courts below.
Judgment affirmed.

PITTSBURG STEEL COMPANY v. BALTIMORE
EQUITABLE SOCIETY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
MARYLAND.
No. 103.

Argued December 18, 19, 1912.-Decided January 6, 1913.

A state statute changing a remedy for enforcing contract rights does
not impair the contract if it gives a more efficacious, remedy than
existed before or does not impair it so materially as to affect the
creditor's rights.
Where, as in this case, this court cannot say that the state court wai
wrong in holding the new remedy under a state statute to be more
efficacious than the former remedy for enforcing claims of creditors

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

226 U. S.

of a corporation against the stockholders, it will not declare the
statute unconstitutional. And so held as to Chap. 305, Laws of
Maryland of 1908.
One not hurt by a provision of an act cannot raise the question of its
constitutionality on that ground.
113 Maryland, 77, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality of a
statute of Maryland providing remedy for enforcing the
liability of stockholders of corporations, are stated in the
opinion.
Mr. Edgar Allan Poe, with whom Mr. J. Kemp Bartlett,
Mr. L. B. Keene Claggett and Mr. R. Howard Bland were
on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
Chapter 305 of the Acts of the General Assembly of
Maryland of 1908, especially paragraph 64A thereof,
impaired the obligation of the contract existing between
the plaintiff in error 'and the defendant in error on the
sixth day of. April, 1908, the date when said act became
effective, and is therefore unconstitutional, being in contravention of ยง 10 of Article I of the Constitution of the
United States.
Prior to the passage of Chapter 305, a creditor of a
Maryland corporation had the choice of two remedies
against' a stockholder whose subscription Was unpaid in
whole or in part; he could either proceed at law, as the
plaintiff in error did in this case, or he could proceed by
bill in equity in the nature of a creditor's bill. Steel Company v. Equitable Society, 113 Maryland, 81; Mathews v.
Albert, 24 Maryland, 527; Norris v. Johnson, 34 Maryland, 485.
It is not a case of the substitution of one remedy for
another, but of the entire elimination of the more valuable
of one of two remedies.
This same act was upheld in Republic Iron Co. v. Carlton, 189 Fed. Rep. 126, but a practically similar act of

PITTSBURG STEEL CO. v. BALTIMORE EQ. SOC.
226 U. S.

457

Opinion o the Court.

1904 was stricken down as unconstitutional in Myers v.
Knickerbocker Trust Co., 139 Fed. Rep. 111.
Any law which in its operation amounts to a denialor
obstruction of the rights accruing by a contract, though
professing to act only on the remedy, is directly obnoxious,
to the prohibition of the Constitution. McCracken v.
Hayward, 2 How. 608 at 611; Seibert v. Lewis, 122. U. S.
284, 294.
Whatever legislation lessens the efficacy of a remedy
impairs the obligation. Louisiana v. New Orleans, 102
U. S.- 203, 206; Bryan v. Virginia, 135 U. S. 685, 693;
Edwards v. Kearzey, 96 U. S.595; Rees v. City of Watertown, 19 Wall. 107; Dexter v. Edmonds, 89 Fed. Rep. 467,
469; Western Nat. Bank v. Reckless, 96 Fed. Rep. 70.
Chapter 305 actually postpones and retards the enforcement of the contract, materially abridges the remedy for
enforcing it, and fails to supply an alternative remedy
equally adequate and efficacious.
The latter part of ยง 64A of Chapter 305, actually reduces the period of limitation as against all creditors who
had brought suit against stockholders between the first day
of July, 1907, and the sixth day of April, 1908. This provision is unconstitutional and vitiates the entire section.
Mr. Wilton Snowden, Jr., and Mr. Vernon Cook for
defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action brought by the plaintiff in error as a
creditor of the South Baltimore Steel Car and Foundry
Company to zecover its claim from the defendanta holder
of stock in that company the subscription for whibh had
not been fully paid. The action was begun on February 26,
1908, and at that date it could -be maintained. But in
April a statute was enacted (Act of April 6, 1908, c. 305,

OCTOBER TERM,, 1912.
-

Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

Laws 1908, p. 58), making the stockholder's liability assets of the corporation, saving the rights of creditors at the
date .of the act, but providing that the exclusive remedy for
such rights as against Maryland stockholders should be
by bill in equity on behalf of such creditors as might come'
in. This provision was made operative as of July 1, 1907,
and was to cause all actions at law of this kind brought
since then to abate, saving the right to become party to a
bill. On this statute the defendant moved to dismiss the
suit. The motion was granted and the judgment was
affirmed by the Court of Appeals, which sustained the
constitutionality of the act as so applied. 113 Maryland,
77.
Of course the objection is that the law impairs the
obligation of the plaintiff's contract. If the stockholder's
liability were purely local and no more than matter of
remedy for the collection of the principal debt, still this
objection would have to be considered. See Hawthorne V.
Calef, 2 Wall. 10. Brown v. Eastern Slate Co., 134 Massachusetts, 590, 592. But the case was argued on the footing
of a contract between the creditor and the stockholder,
and as the statute seems to assume that the stockholder's
liability may follow hint into other jurisdictions and the.
Court of Appeals affirmed that a contract between the
parties is presumed, we in turn assume that view to be
correct. Bernheimer v. Converse, 206 U. S. 516, 529. In
either view the question put in the form most favorable
for the plaintiff is the same; whether the remedy against
the defendant is impaired so materially as to affect the
plaintiff's rights. McGahey v. Virginia,135 U. S. 662, 693.
The plaintiff's supposed contract was subject to peculiar
infirmities. His right was shared equally by all other
creditors of the corporation, and not only might some
other creditor by diligence have got in ahead of the plaintiff and have exhausted the fund for which the defendant
could be held, but the right depended-on the stockholder's

PITTSBURG STEEL CO. v. BALTIMORE EQ. SOC. 459
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

will. As was observed by Judge Rose, following the Maryland cases, in Republic Iron & Steel Co. v. Carlton, 189

Fed. Rep. 126, 137, the statute does no more than the
stockholder was free to do before. He could have paid the
corporation or a receiver or other creditors. The question
whether the remedy on this contract was impaired materially is affected not only bDy the precarious character of
the plaintiff's right, but by considerations of fact-of what:
the remedy amounted to in practice. It is admitted that
bringing the action gave the plaintiff no lien, as it seems
mistakenly to have been assumed to do in Myers v.
Knickerbocker Trust Co., 1:39 Fed. Rep. 111, 116;

The

Court of Appeals states that the remedy has been found
in practice an uncertain one, less efficacious than that
which is substituted. There is nothing to contradict their
statement as to what experience has taught. With that
fact before us and also the absolute dependence of the
creditor upon the will of the stockholder, we cannot go into

nice speculation as to the probable result of this particular
case, or say that the decision was wrong. The power of

the State to make similar changes of remedy is asserted
in more general terms than we have employed, in Fourth
National Bank v. Francklyn, 120 U. S. 747, 755.
Henley v. Myers, 215 U. S.373, 385.

See also

A further objection is based upon the period of limitation established by the act. But as it does not appear
that the plaintiff was hurt by it, this objection is not open.
Darnell v. Indiana, ante, 1). 390.
Judgment affirmed.

