192

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Syllabus.

226 U. S.

pably arbitrary.'" Orient InsuranceCo. v. Daggs, 172 U. S.
557, 562; Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Melton, 218
P. S.36, 52-55; Engel v. O'Malley, 219 U. S. 128; Lindsley
v. Natural CarbonicGas Co., 220 U. S. 61, 78;'MutualLoan
Co.- v. Martell, 222 U. S. 225, 235. With its intimate
knowledge of local conditions, the Supreme Court of the
Territory said upon this point: "The great bulk of the
business of the Territory is done in Honolulu. It is not
for us to say whether we would make the difference in the
amount of license fees in this case as.large as the legislature has made it. It is sufficient that we cannot say that
the difference is unreasonable or that the statute is unequal or arbitrary in its operation." We find no ground
for a different conclusion.
Judgment affirmed.
j

PURITY EXTRACT AND TONIC COMPANY v.
LYNCH.
ERROR TO\THE

SUPREME' COURT OF THE STATE OF
MISSISSIPPI.

No. 464.

Su1mitted October 28, 1912.-Decided December 2, 1912.,

The decision by the state court that an article is within the prohibition of.a: state statute is binding here.

The protection. accorded by the Federal Constitution -to interstate
-commerce does not extend beyond the sale in original packages as
imported; and a contract made in one State for delivery of liquor in
another State which does not limit the sale in the latter State to
original packages encounters the local statute and cannot be enforced
if contrary thereto.
Where there have been no purchases and no deliveries under a contract
for delivery of liquor,, but the vendee has given notice of refusal to
accept because the contract is illegal in the State of deliveiy, the
state court, in sustaining the illegalitjr of the contract, does not deny
the seller the right to sell the article or have-it transported in interstate commerce.

PURITY EXTRACT CO. v. LYNCH.'
226 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

Where a large number of bottles, each in a separate box, are all contained in one case, each bottle is not to be regarded as a separate
original package and protected from interference by state statute
under the commerce clause of the Constitution; and this even if the
contract of shipment declared there was to be no retail sale by the
consignee.
Qu&re, and not decided, whether an article such as Poinsetta, the beverage involved in this case, having a low percentage of malt, is governed by the Wilson Act.
A State may, in the exercise of its police power, prohibit the sale of intoxicating liquor, and to the end of making the prohibition effectual
may include in the prohibition beverages- which separately considered may be innocuous; and so held as to Poinsetta, a beverage
containing a small percentage of malt.
The court has no concern with the wisdom of exercising the police
power, and unless the enactment has no substantial relation to a
proper purpose, cannot declare that the limit of legislative power has
been transcended.
For the courts to attempt to determine whether the exercise of the
police power within legislative limits is wise would be contrary to our
constitutional system and substitute judicial opinion for the legislative will. The only question in this court is whether the legislature
had the power to establish the regulation.
The legislation to that effect in many of the States shows that the
opinion is extensively held that a general prohibition of sale of malt
liquors whether intoxicating or not is necessary to suppress the sale
of intoxicants.
In the exercise of its police power to prohibit the sale of intoxicants a
State may include within the prohibition malt and other liquors
sold under the guise of innocent beverages.
100 Mississippi, 650, affirmed.

TmE facts, which involve the constitutionalityi of a
statute of Mississippi which includes the prohibition of
the sale of malt liquors, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Marcellus Green, Mr. George B. Lancaster, Mr. G.
W. Green and Mr.'Marcellus Green, Jr., for plaintiffs in
error:
Chapter 113, § 1, as inteipreted by the Supreme Court
of the State of Mississippi in so far as it regulates the
VOL. ccxxvi-13

194

1 OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

226 U. S.

movement of Poinsetta in' interstate commerce, violates
the Federal Constitution. 'Leisy v. Hardin, 135 U. S.
100; Bowman v. Chicago & Northwestern Railway, 125
U. S. 465; In re Rahrer, 140 U. S. 35; Brennan v. Titusville,
153 U. S. 289; Scott v. Donald, 165 U. S. 95; Vance v.
Vandercock, 170 U. S. 441; Rhodes v. Iowa, 170 U. S. 411;
Schollenberger v. Pennsylvania, 171 U. S. 1; Telegraph Co.
v. Philadelphia,,190 U. S. 162; American Express Co. v.
Iowa, 196 U. S. 133; Brewing Co. v. Crenshaw, 198 U. S. 21;
Cook v. Marshall County, 196 U. S. 261; Foppiano v.
Speed, 199 U. S. 504; South Carolinav. United States, 199
U. S. 461; Rearick V. Pennsylvania, 203 U. S. 508; Express
Cd. v. Kentucky, 214 U. 8. 218; Louisville & Nashville R.
R. v. Cook Brewing Co., 223 U. S. 81.
. Said statute as interpreted by the Supreme
Court of the
State of Mississippi, in so far asit deprives plaintiff in error
of the ,right to sell Poinsetta, is in conflict with the Four-,
teenth Amendment in that thereby it attempts to deprive
plaintiff in error of its property and liberty without due
process of law. Lochner v. New 'York, 198 U. S.56; Harper
v. California,155 U. S.662; Hudson Water Co. v. McCarter, 209 U. S.355; Welch v. Swasey, 214 U. S.103.
The caseq.cited by defendant in error can all be distinguished.
Mr. Edward Mayes, Mr. Robert B. Mayes and Mr. Jas.
R. M'Dowell, for defendant in error.
The'. record shows that Poinsetta, though not intoxicating, and containing no alcohol, is a malt product and
contains 5.73 per cent. of malt out of 9.55 per cent. of solid
matter, the balance being water. Poinsetta is sold as a
beverage and, as such, it is a malt liquor within the meaning of. the prohibition statute of Mississippi., The fact
that the statute enumerates malt liquor as one. of those
prohibited, brings Poinsetta within its terms, and it makes

. PURITY EXTRACT CO. v. LYNCH.
226 U. S..

,195

Argument for Defendant in Error'

no difference whether it is alcoholic or intoxicating or not.
Fuller v. Jackson, 52 So. Rep. '876; Reyfelt v. State, 73
Mississippi, 415; Edwards v. Gulfport, 49 So. Rep. 620;
Elder v. State, 50 So. Rep. 370.
The statute prohibits the sale of malt liquors and that
is conclusive. In enacting a police regulation it may be
found necessary to include within the purview of the statute certain acts innocent and not in themselves the :subject of police regulation, where the inclusion of such acts
is necessary in the opinion of the legislature to make effective the police regulation. Pennell v. State, 113 N.-W.
Rep. 115; Marks. Case (Ala.), 48 So. Rep. 864; United
States v. Cohn, 52 S. W. Rep. 38.
Poinsetta is a malt liquor and is therefore prohibited,
regardless of intoxicating properties. If the liquor sold
was a malt liquor, it is not necessary for a jury :to determine whether it was or was not intoxicating in fact.
State v. O'Connell, 50 Atl. Rep. 59; Guilbert v. Kauffmani;
67 N. E. Rep. 1062; Lemly v. State, 20L. R. A. (O. S.)
645; Netso v. State, 1 L. R. A. 825; Commonwealth v.
Fowler, 33 L. R. A. (0. S) 839; State v. Fargo Bottling
Works, 26 L. R. A. (N. S.) 872.
The State, in the exercise of its police powers, has an
undoubted right to take into consideration not only the
effect of the article sold upon the life and health of the
individual, but also the fact that it may be used readily
and conveniently as a cover to violations of the law.
Luther v. State, 20 L. R. A. (N. S.) 1146; Lawrence v.
Monroe, 10 L. R. A. 520; State v. Frederickson, 6 L. R.
A. (N. S.) 186; State v. O'Connell (Me.), 58 Atl. Rep.
59; Feibelman v. State (Ala.), 30 So. Rep. 384. See also
Black on Intoxicating Iiquors, § 43; In re Spipkler, 43
Fed. Rep. 653; State v. York, 74 N. H. 125; State v.
Fredrickson, 115 Am. St. 'Rep. 295; State v. Conner, 99
Maine, 61; United States v. Ducourneau, 54 Fed. Rep.
138.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

226 U. S.

Even if Poinsetta cannot be used as a subterfuge for
beer because it is distinctive in taste, color and odor and
has the name blown in the bottle, yet it may be used as
a substitute; being a malt drink it may gratify the craving
for malt liquors or it may lead to the creation of a desire
for malt liquors. Walker v. Dailey, 101 Ill. App. 575;
Holcomb v. State, 49 Ill. App. 73; Caldwell v. State, 112
Georgia, 135; Campbell v. Thomasville, 64 S. E. Rep. 814;
State v. Auditor, 68 Oh. St. 635; Smith v. State, 49 So.
Rep. 115.
The State has not exceeded its police powers in prohibiting the sale of malt liquors which are non-intoxicating,
and the act does not violate the due process clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment. Chicago, B. & Q.R. v. McGuire,
219 U. S. 549.
In determining whether or not a State has exceeded its
police powers this court will never overthrow a statute of
a State unless the action of the legislature was arbitrary
and had no reasonable relation to a purpose which it was
competent for the Government to effect. Otis v. Parker,
187 U. S. 606; Ah Sin v. Wittman, 198 U. S. 509; Lemieux
v. Young, 211 U. S. 489; Kidd et al. v. Musselman, 217
U. S. 461; Booth v. Illinois, 184 U. S. 425.
A statute which can confiscate property rights and
destroy business must be justifiable upon the suggested
reasons of public benefit; but whether justifiable or not,
are reasons that address themselves exclusively to legislative wisdom. Cooley, Const. Lim. (7th ed.), 150 and
849; Black on Intoxicating Liquors, § 34; Lawrence v.
Monroe (Kansas), 10 L. R. A. 520.
In enacting a police regulation it may be found necessary to include within the purview of the statute certain
acts innocent and not in themselves the subject of police
regulation, where the inclusion of such acts is necessary,
in the opinion of the legislature, to make the police regulation effective. Pennell v. State, 141 Wisconsin, 35;

PURITY EXTRACT CO. v. LYNCH.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Booth v. Illinois, 184 U. S. 425; Otis v. Parker, 187 U. S.
606; State ex rel. v. Aiken, 25 L. R. A. 345; Stone v. Mississippi, 101 U. S. 814; Muirler v. Kansas, 123 U. S. 660;
"Barbierv. Connolly, 113 U. 5. 27.
Lochner v. New York, 198 U. S. 56; Hooper v. California, 155 U. S. 662; Powell' Case, 127 U. S. 678; Dobbins
v. Los Angeles, 195 U. S. 224, all present entirely different
cases and do not sustain the contention of plaintiff in error.
The question of interstate commerce is not involved.
The Wilson Act is not necessarily involved in this litigation,
for the reason that no attempt has been made to bring
this beverage into the State.
The container, or box in which these bottles are packed,
and not the single bottle itself is the original package.
17 A. and E. Enc. Law (2d ed.), 294; Black on Intoxicating Liquors, § 75; Harrison v. State, 10 So. Rep. 30;
Keith v. State, 8 So. Rep. 353; Cook v. Marshall Co., 196
U. S. 261.
MR. JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action for breach of contract. The Purity
Extract and Tonic Company (plaintiff below), a Tennessee corporation, is the manufacturer of a beverage
called "Poinsetta," and in November, 1910, it' made an
agreement with the defendant Lynch for the purchase of
the article by him on stated terms during the period of five
years. The agreement contemplated resales by. the defendant in Hinds County, Mississippi, to the making of
which he was to devote his best efforts. It was provided
that he was to sell only in that county where he was to
have the exclusive right of sale for which he was to pay
to the plaintiff the sum of five hundred dollars within
five days after the making of the contract. It was to
recover this amount that the action was brought, the defendant having rpudiated the agreement -at the outset

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

upon the ground that on coming to Mississippi he found
it to be unlawful to sell "Poinsetta" in that State. The
trial court sustained the defense of illegality and its judgment was affirmed by the Supreme Court of Mississippi.
100 Mississippi, 650.
The statute which the agreement has been held to
violate is Chapter 115. of the Laws of Mississippi of 1908,
§ 1, p. 116, which includes in its'prohibition the sale of
malt liquors.
The case was tried upon an agreed statement of facts
in which the characteristics of "Poinsetta" are set forth
at length. 'In substance, the statement is that it is composed of pure distilled water to the extent of 90.45 per
cent., the remaining 9.55 per cent. being solids derived
from cereals, "which are in an unfermented state and are
wholesome and nutritious"; that "it contains 5.73% of
malt and is sold as a beverage"; that it does not contain
either alcohol or saccharine matter, being manufactured
in such a manner under a secret formula obtained from
German scientists as to bring neither into its composition;
,hat it is not intoxicating; that its taste and odor are distinctive; that its appearance is such that. "it would not
probably be mistaken for any intoxicating liquor"; and
that it "cannot be employed as a subterfuge for the -sale
of beer because it is bottled in a distinctive way and its.
name blown in each bottle which contains the beverage."
It is further agreed that "the United States Government
does not treat Poinsetta as within the class of intoxicating
liquors and does not require ,anything to be done with
reference to its sale."
The state court, following its decision in Fuller v. City
of Jackson, 97 Mississippi, 237, construed the statute as
prohibiting the sale of all malt liquors whether in fact intoxicating or not, and this construction of the state law
is binding here. The court said: "Poinsetta may or may
not be an intoxicant, but it is a malt liquor, and as such

PURITY EXTRACT CO. v. LYNCH.
226-U. S.

.199

Opinion of the Court.

is prohibited from being sold in this State. The prohibition law can not be made effective unless it excludes allsubterfuges." (100 Mississippi, 650, 657.)
The agreed statement of facts also contained tha fllowing: "Poinsetta is put up in bottles at Chattanooga,
Tennessee, and is shipped in bottles, each separate and
apart from the other, placed in a case to which they are
in no way attached, and which is done merely to prevent
breakage of the bottles in transit. The case is not fastened
with nails or other device but merely closed. -The bottles
so contained are shipped in interstate commerce from
Chattanooga, Tennessee, and are to be received under the
contract by the consignee in Mississippi in the same condition as when bottled, and are to be sold as-each several
package. There is to be no .retail sale under such right
by said Lynch in the State of Mississippi, but all shipmentsare to be made direct either to said Lynch, or to other
pei-sons who shall desire to purchase .said drink, and are
to be delivered to said purchasers of said bottles in. precisely the same shape as prepared in Tennessee, and said
Poinsetta is still contained in the original package at the
time it will be offered for sale in Mississippi by the purchaser thereof in the original package which was sent from
Tennessee through Alabama into Mississippi."
The plaintiff brings this writ of error assailing the validity of the statute, as construed by the state court, (1) as
an unconstitutional interference with interstate commerce and. (2) as depriving the plaintiff of its liberty and
property without due process of law.
First. We do not find that the decision of the state court
involves a denial of any rijht incident to interstate commerce. The contract, it is true, provided for purchases by
the defendant from the plaintiff, the deliveries to be made
at Chattanooga, Tennessee,' for transportat on to the.
defendant at Jackson, Mississippi.- So far as appears,
however, there were no purchases and no deliveries. The

. OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

reason obviously is that the agreement looked to resales
by the defendant in Hinds County. Finding that such
sales would be against the local law, he refused performance in limine. The state court did not deny to the plaintiff
the right to sell to the defendant or to have its article
transported and delivered to the defendant in interstate
commerce. Rhodes v. Iowa, 170 U. S. 412; Louisville &
Nashville R. R. Co. v. Cook Brewing Co., 223 U. S. 70, 82.
It had no such question before it. This suit was brought
to recover the amount which the defendant promised to
pay for the exclusive right of making sales in Hinds
County. In this aspect, the validity of the contract under
the state law was to be judged by its provisions for sales
within the State. The contract contained no suggestion
that these sales were to be limited to those made in the
original packages imported. Its provisions were broad
enough to include other sales and hence encountered the
local statute as applied to transactions outside the protection accorded by the Federal Constitution to interstate
commerce.
Nor is the contention of the plaintiff aided by the agreed
statement of facts. This statement in one of its clauses
says that there was to be "no retail sale" by the defendant. Whatever this may mean in the light of the words of
the contract which contained no such limitation, it is
clear that the defendant was not debarred from selling
the bottles separately. On the contrary, the argument
for the plaintiff is that "each bottle," brought into the
State in cases as described, constitutes "an original package." As to this, it is to be noted that by the terms of the
contract the agreed prices on the purchases by the defendant from the plaintiff were per cask containing ten
dozen bottles and per case containing six dozen bottles
respectively. In short, the plain purpose was that the
defendant was to buy in casks and cases, and in the light
of the transactions thus contemplated, and, as they would

4,.

PURITY EXTRACT CO. v. LYNCH.
226 U. S.

201

Opinion of the Court.

be normally conducted, between the plhintiff as manufacturer and the defendant; as local dealer it can not be
said that each separate bottle which he might sell' in
Hinds County must be considered as an original package
so as to save the sale from the interdiction of the state law..
May v. New Orleans,.178 U. S. 496; Austin v. Tennessee,
179 U. S. 343; Cook v. Marshall County, 196 U. S. 261;
We are, therefore, not called upon to consider whether-or
not the Wilson Act (August 8, 1890, c. 728; 26 Stat. 313)
governs in the case of such an article as "Poinsetta" and,
confini*ng ourselves to the issue presented, we express no
opinion upon that point.
Second. Treating the matter then as one of local sales,
the question is whether the prohibitory law of the State
as applied to a beverage of this sort is in conflict with the
Fourteenth Amendment.
That the State in the exercise of its police power may
prohibit the selling of intoxicating liquors is undoubted.
Bartemeyerv. Iowa, 18 Wall. 129; Boston Beer Company v.
Massachusetts, 97 U. S.25; Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S.
623; Kidd v. Pearson, 128 U. S.1; Crowley v. Christensen,
137 U. S. 86.

It is also well established that, when a

State exerting its recognized authority undertakes to suppress what it is free to regard as a public evil, it may adopt
such measures having reasonable relation to that end as it
may deem necessary in order to make its action effective.
It does not follow that because a transaction separately
considered is innocuous it may not be included in a prohibition the scope of which i3 regarded as essential in the
legislative judgment to accomplish a purpose within the
admitted rower of the Government. Booth v. Illinois, 184
U. 5. 425; Otis v. Parker, 187 U. S.606; Ah Sin v. Wittman, 198 U. S.500, 504; New York ex rel. Silz v. Hesterberg, 211 U. S.31; Murphy v. California, 225 U. S.623.
With the wisdom of the exercise of that judgment the
court has no concerfi; and unless it clearly appears that

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

the enactment has no substantial relation to a proper
purpose, it cannot be said that the limit of legislative
power has been transcended. To hold otherwise would
be to substitute judicial opinion of expediency for the
will of the legislature, a notion foreign to our constitutional
system.
Thus in Booth v. Illinois, supra, the defendant was
convicted under a statute of that State which made it a
criminal offense to give an option to buy grain at a future
time. It was contended that the statute as interpreted
by the state court was "not directed against gambling
contracts relating to the selling or buying of grain or other
commodities, but against mere options to sell or buy at a
future time without any settlement between the parties
upon the basis of differences, and therefore involving no
element of gambling." The argument was that it directly
forbade the citizen "from pursuing a calling which, in
itself, involves no element of immorality." This court, in
sustaining the judgment of conviction, said: "If, looking
at all the circumstances that attend, or which may ordinarily attend, the pursuit of a particular calling, the
State thinks that certain admitted evils can not be successfully reached unless that calling be actually prohibited, the courts cannot interfere, unless, looking through
mere forms and at the substance of the matter, they can
say that the statute enacted professedly to protect the
public morals has no real or substantial relation to that
object, but is a clear, unmistakable infringement of rights
secured by the fundamental law." It must be assumed,
it was added, that, "the iegislature was of opinion that
an effectual mode to suppress gambling grain contracts
was to declare illegal all options to sell or buy at a future
time," and the court could not say that the means employed were not appropriate to the end which it was
competent for the State to accomplish. (Id. pp. 429, 430.)
The same principle was applied in Otis v. Parker,supra,

PURITY EXTRACT CO. v. LYNCH.
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

which dealt with the provision of the constitution of California that all contracts for the sale of shares of the capital
stock of any corporation, on margin, or to be delivered at
a future day, should be void, and that any money paid
on such contracts might be recovered. The objection
urged against the provision in its literal sense was that
the prohibition of all sales on margin bore no reasonable
relation to the evil sought to be cured, but the court upheld the law, being unwilling to declare that the deepseated conviction on the part of the people concerned as
to what was required to effect the purpose could be regarded as wholly without foundation. (Id., pp. 609, 610.)
A strong illustration of the extent of the power of the
State is found in Silz v. Hesterberg, 211 U. S. 31. The
State of New York by its 'Forest, Fish and Game Law
prohibited the possession of certain game during the close
season. The statute covered game coming from without
the State. It a.ppeared that Silz was charged with the
possession of plover and grouse which had been lawfully
taken abroad during the open season and had been lawfully brought into the State; that these game birds were
varieties different from those known as plover and grouse
in the State of New York; that, although of the same
families, in form, size, color and markings they could
readily be distinguished from the latter; and that they were
wholesome and valuable articles of food. This court
affirmed the conviction, saying (p. 40): " It is insisted
that a method of inspection can be established which will
distinguish the imported game from that of the domestic
variety, and prevent confusion in its handling and selling.
That such game can be distinguished from domestic game
has been disclosed in the ,record in this case, and it may be
that such inspection laws would be all that would be required for the protection of domestic game. But, subject
to constitutional limitations, the legislature of the State
is authorized to pass meastues for the protection of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

people of the State in the exercise of the police power,
and is itself the judge of the necessity or expediency of the
means adopted." It was pointed out that the prohibition
in question had been found to be expedient in several
States "owing to the possibility that dealers in game may
sell birds of the domestiu kind under the claim that they
were taken in another State or country."
It was competent for the legislature of Mississippi to
recognize the difficulties besetting the administration of
laws aimed at the prevention of traffic in intoxicants. It
prohibited, among other things, the sale of "malt liquors."
In thus dealing with a class of beverages which in general
are regarded as intoxicating, it was not bound to resort
to a discrimination with respect to ingredients and processes of manufacture which, in the endeavor to eliminate
innocuous beverages from the condemnation, would facilitate subterfuges and frauds and fetter the enforcement of
the law. A contrary conclusion logically pressed would
save the nominal power while preventing its effective
exercise. The statute establishes its own category. The
question in this court is whether the legislature had power
to establish it. The existence of this power, as the authorities we have cited abundantly demonstrate, is not to
be denied simply because some innocent articles or transactions may be found within the proscribed class. The
inquiry must be whether, considering the end in view, the
statute passes the bounds of reason and assumes the'
character of a merely arbitrary fiat.
That the opinion is extensively held that a general
prohibition of the sale of malt liquors, whether intoxicating or not, is a necessary means to the suppression of
trade in intoxicants, sufficiently appears from the legislation of other States and the decision of the courts in'its
construction. State v. O'Connell, 99 Maine, 61; 58 Ati.
Rep: 59; State v. Jenkins, 64 N. H. 375; State v. York, 74
N. H. 125, 127; State ex rel. Guilbert v. Kauffman, 68 Oh.

BUCK STOVE CO. v. VICKERS.
226 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

St. 635; 67 N. E. Rep. 1062; Luther v. State (Nebraska),
20 L. R. A. (N. S.) 1146; Pennell v. State, 141 Wisconsin,
35; 123 N. W. Rep. 115. We cannot say that there is no
basis for this widespread coniction.
The State, within the limits we have stated, must decide
upon the measures that are needful for the protection of
its people, and, having regard-to the artifices which are
used to promote the sale of intoxicants under the guise of
innocent beverages, it would constitute an unwarrantable
departure from accepted principle to hold that the prohibition of the sale of all malt liquors, including the
beverage in question, was beyond its reserved power.

Judgment afirmed.

BUCK STOVE AND RANGE CO. v. VICKERS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT. OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
•No. 10. Argued December.19, 1911.-Decided December 2, 1912.
Rev. Stat., § 1011, providing that there shall be no reversal in this
court upon a writ of error for eror in ruling on any plea of abatement other than one to the jurisdiction of the court, does not apply to
writs of eror to state courts but only to lower Federal ourts.
The subdivision and rearrangemeft of § 22 of the Judiciary Act of
1789 in the Revised Statutes of 1873 did not work any change in
the purpose and meaning of the original act.
The statute of Kansas of 1905, requiring certain classes of foreign corporations to fie statements is an invalid restriction and burden and
unconstitutional as to foreign corporations engaged in interstate commerce, under the commerce clause of the Federal Constitution. In-

ternational Textbook Company v. Pigg, 217 U. S. 91.
80 Kansas, 29, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the application of § 1011,
Rev. Stat., to writs of error to state courts and also the
constitutionality of a statute: of Kansas affecting the right

