OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Counsel for Parties.

226 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. UNION PACIFIC RAILROAD
COMPANY.
MOTION AS TO FORM OF MANDATE.

No. 446.

Submitted December 19, 1912.-Decided January 6, 1913.

Each case under the Sherman Act must stand upon its own facts and
this court will not regard the methods provided in decrees of other
cases as precedents necessarily to be followed where a different
situation, is presented for consideration.
The ultimate determination of. the affairs of a corporation rests with
its stockholders and arises from their power to choose the governing
board of directors; and this court will not approve a method of distributing stock of a railroad company held by a competitor so that
the natural result will be that a majority of the governing boards of
both roads shall consist of the same persons.
In.this case it is not impossible under the plan proposed that this result
will happen and therefore it is not approved.
The main purpose of the Sherman Anti-trust Act is to forbid combinations and conspiracies.in undue restraint of interstate trade and to
end them by as effectual means as the court may provide.
A court of equity dealing with an illegal combination should conserve
the property interests involved, but never in such wise as to sacrifice
the purpose of the statute.
Without 'precluding the District Court from considering all plans submitted as provided by the former opinion and the decree (ante,
p. 61) this court now holds that a transfer of the stock of the Southern Pacific Company to the stockholders of the Union Pacific Railroad Company would not so effectually end the combination as to
comply with the decree.

THE facts, which involve the method of effectually dissolving a combination found to be illegal under the Sherman Anti-trust Act, are stated in the opinion.

The Attorney General for the United States.
Mr. John C. Spooner, Mr, John G. Milburn, Mr. Max-

well Evarts aAd Mr. N. H. Loomis for appellees, Union
Pacific Railroad Company and Oregon Short Line Railroad4 Company,.

UNITED STATES v. UNION PACIFIC R. R. CO. 471
226 U. S.

Opinion' of the Court.

MR. JusTIcE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
On December 2, 1912, this court handed down an opinion and remanded this case to the District Court of the
United States, whence it carae, with instructions to enter
a decree which would providelan injunction as to voting
the stock of the Southern Pacific Company acquired by
the Union Pacific Railroad Company, and directed the
court to further hear the parties' in order to make a decree
effectually concluding the operating force of the. combination created by the purchase of the Southern Pacific
Company's stock. The parties were given three months
from the receipt of the mandate of this court 'by the
District Court to propose 'plans, and it was directed that
any one adopted by the, court should be such as would
effectually dissolve the unlawful combination.
The mandate of this court not having issued, on December 19, 1912, a motion was made' in which the Attorney General of the United States and counsel for the appellees the Union Pacific Railroad Company and the
Oregon Short Line Railroad Company (the latter holding the stock for the Union Pacific Company) joined' in
asking this court "to instruct the United States District
Court for the District of Utah, by a provision incorporated
in the mandate of this court, when issued, or' otherwise,
whether or not a sale of the Southern Pacific Company
shares held by said appellees to the shareholders of appellee Union Pacific Railroad Company, substantially in
proportion to their respective holdings, or a distribution
thereof by dividend to the Union Pacific stockholders
entitled to such dividend, would, in the opinion of this
court, constitute a disposition of said shares in compliance
with the opinion herein filed on December 2, 1912."
In pursuanceof the request thus preferred by the United
States and the appellees named, it becomes necessary
now to determine whether :the distribution or sale pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

posed of the Southern Pacific Company's shares will
comply with the decree ordered to be entered by the
former opinion of this court.
The Southern Pacific Company's stock, held by the
Oregon Short Line Company for the Union Pacific Company, amounts to $126,650,000, par value, in shares of
$100 each, and constitutes 46% of the Southern Pacific
Company's st6ck, enough, as we have heretofore found,
to effectually control the Southern Pacific Company. As
stated by the appellees, the Union Pacific Company has
outstanding $99,569,300, par value, of preferred stock
and $216,646,300, par value, of common stock, all in
shares of $100 each, amounting in all to $316,215,600,
and also has outstanding $37,000,000 of bonds convertible into stock, and the appellees further state that its
.stock is distributed among over 22,000 holders.
It is contended on behalf of the appellees that the
distribution of the Southern* Pacific Company's stock,
held, as. we have stated, by the Oregon Short Line Company for the Union Pacific Company, among so many
stockholders will effectually conclude the combination
decreed to be ended by the former order of the court. It
is insisted that such distribution will prevent the continued operation of the combination for the control of
the Southern Pacific Company by a competing company,
which the Union Pacific Company was found to be, and
that it is authorized under the practice in respect to such'
decrees as settled by the previous decisions of this court
in affirming the decree of the Circuit Court in Northern
Securities Co. v. United States, 193 U. S. 197, and Harriman v. Northern Securities Co., 197 U. S. 244, and the
decree of the Circuit Court in Standard Oil Co. v. United
States, 221 U. S. 1.
In the Northern Securities Company Case, after providing for orders of injunction to prevent the continued
operation of the Northern Securities Company, which

UNITED STATES v. UNION PACIFIC R. R. CO. 473
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

controlled the Northern Pacific Railway Company and
the Great Northern Railway Company, it was provided
(p. 355):

"But nothing herein contained shall be construed as
prohibiting the Northern Securities Company from returning and transferring to the Northern Pacific Railway
Company and the Great Northern Railway Company,
respectively, any and all shares of stock in either of said
railway companies which said,' the Northern Securities
Company, may have heretofore received from such stock-:
holders in exchange for its own stock; and nothing herein
contained shall be construed as prohibiting the Northern
Securities Company from making such transfer and assignments of the stock aforesaid to such person or persons
as may now be the holders and owners of its own stock
originally issued in exchange or in payment-for the stock
claimed to have been acquired by it in the aforesaid
railway companies."
Upon the affirmation of this decree by this court in 193
U. S. 197, the Northern Securities Company proceeded to
reduce its outstanding capital stock from $395,400,000 to
$3,954,000, providing for such reduction by requiring
each holder to surrender to the company for retirement
99% of the shares held by him, and upon surrender by a
stockholder the company assigned and transferred to him
proportionate amounts. of the stock of the Northern
Pacific Company and Great Northern Company which
had been placed with the Northern Securities Company,
the holding company, for the purpose of creating the combination, which the court 'had held to be illegal, and this
plan of distribution was appro~ved by this court in 197
U. S. 244. In other words, the stock of the holding company was reduced and the surplus of assets created
by such reduction, the stock of the Northern Pacific
Company and the Great Northern Company, was distributed among the stockholders of the Northern Secu-

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.

Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

rities Company, thereby effectually ending the combination.
In the Standard Oil Conpany Case the majority of the
stock of nineteen oil companies had been placed in the
control of a holding company, the Standard Oil Company
of New Jersey, with a capital stock of $100,000,000, the
stock of the latter corporation being issued to the holders
of the stock in the nineteen companies in exchange for
their stock. This holding company was held to be a combination and conspiracy in restraint of trade and commerce, and, after awarding injunctions, it was provided-.
"But the defendants are not prohibited by this decree
from distributing ratably to the shareholders of the
principal company the shares to which they are equitably
entitled in the stocks of the defendant 'corporations that
are parties to the combination."
It is evident in that case, as in the Northern Securities
Company Case, that the distribution of the shares and
stocks of the subsidiary companies,, parties to the combination, among the shareholders 'of the Standard Oil
Company of New Jersey, wAs to .nd the combination
which had, been decreed to be in violation of law, and
prevent the continued control of the subsidiary companies
by the holding company.
As was said in the opinion filed in this case, however,
each case under the Sherman Act must stand upon its
own facts, and .we are unable to regard the decrees in the
Northern Securities Company Case and the Standard Oil
Company Case as precedentg to be followed'now, in view.
of the different situation presented for consideration.
The Southern Pacific Company's stock was mainly purchased from private parties, legatees of *the Huntington
estate, and it is evident that it is impossible to restore the
status quo by the return of such stock to the persons from
whom it was purchased upon such vendors refunding the
purchase money.

ONITED STATES v. UNION PACIFIC I. R. CO. 475
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The plan proposed in the ])resent motion of distributing
the stock among the shareholders of the Union Pacific
Company or of selling it to such shareholders will in effect
transfer the stock from the Oregon Short Line Company,
which now holds it for. the Union Pacific Company, to the
stockholders of the latter company, who own and control
that company. Upon the face of it, this would seem to be
a proposition to perpetuate the domination and control
of the Union Pacific Company over the Southern Pacific
Company, because of the power given to the Union
Pacific Company's stockholders to choose the directors
of the Southern Pacific Company. The ultimate determination of the affairs of a corporation rests with its
stockholders and arises from their power to choose the
governing board of directors. Unless otherwise provided
by law, the stockholders may authorize the board of direct6rs to delegate to an executive committee the authority
to do any and all acts which the directors are authorized
to do. The executive committee thus derives its authority
from the stockholders through the board of directors.
Union Pacific Railway Co. v. Chicago, Rock Island &
Pacific Railway Co., 163 U. S. 564, 597. In thepresent
case the record discloses this mode of management of both
the Southern Pacific Company and the Union Pacific
Company, and, since 1905, as the proof shows, a majority
of -both executive committees consisted of the same persons and Mr. Harriman was chairman of both committees.
It is contended for the appellees, however, that, in view
of the great number of widely scattered stockholders of
the Union Pacific Company, there is no probability of
their acting together to continue the control of the Union
Pacific Company 'over the Southern Pacific Company.
Indeed, this is said to be impossible. But we are unable
to accede to this contention. Bearing in mind the object
of the statute to end such combinations and the duty of

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

the courts in dealing with them to make such decrees as
will most thoroughly effectuate that purpose, it is not
consistent with that end to order such distribution of the
stock as may fail to discontinue the control denounced,
and as in all probability will fail to efficiently enforce the
statute. It is by no means improbable, but quite likely,
that, if the stock was transferred to the stockholders of the
Union Pacific Company by distribution among them, the
large stockholders could, by purchases and transfers of
the stock, get into their own hands the power of choosing
directors of both companies, and thus, though in a different
manner, the Southern Pacific Company would continue
to be in the practical control of the Union Pacific Company, which has been found to be a rival and competing
Company within the meaning of the law. So of the privilege of sale to the stockholders in proportion to the
amount of their holdings.
In considering these questions we must bear in mind not
only the number of stockholders, but the character of the
distribution of the stock among them. In the brief and
exhibits of the appellees filed with this motion it is shown
that of the 22,150 stockholders of the Union Pacific Company, 68, owning 5,000 or more shares each, hold together
$139,782,700 of the stock and 300 others, owning from
1,000 to 5,000 shares each, hold together $59,020,700 of
the stock, and that the two groups (comprising 368 stockholders) hold $198,803,400 or 62.8% of the'stock, while the
remaining stockholders (21,782) control only $117,412,200
of the stock. Many small shareholders might not wish to
purchase the Southern Pacific Company's stock, and the
privilege might be readily acquired from them by the
larger and more active interests vested in the hands of the
large stockholders, and thus again the condition forbidden
be created and perpetuated.
The main purpose of the act is to forbid combinations
and conspiracies in undue restraint of trade or tending. to.

UNITED STATES v. UNION PACIFIC R. R. CO. 477
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

monopolize it, and the object of proceedings of this
character is to decree, by is effectual means as a court
may, the end of such unlawful combinations and conspiracies. So far as is consistent with this purpose a court
of equity dealing with.such combinations should conserve
the property interests involved, but never in such wise as
to sacrifice the object and purpose of the statute. The
decree of the courts must be faithfully executed and no
form of dissolution be permitted that in substance or
effect amounts to restoring the combination which it was
the purpose of the decree to. terminate.
In rejecting the plan for the transfer of the Southern
Pacific Company's stock held for the Union Pacific Company, either by distribution or sale to the stockholders of
the Union Pacific Company, we do not mean to preclude
the District Court from considering and acting upon
plans which may be submitted to it under the former
opinion and decree of the court. We are of opinion, however, and now hold that. the proposed.plan of disposition
of the entire. stock holding of the Union Pacific Company
in the Southern Pacific Company by transfer to the stockholders of the Union Pacific Company will not so effectually end the combination as to conply with the decree
heretofore ordered by this court to be entered.
So ordered.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVA:NTER-took no part in the hearing or determination of this motion.

