.276

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

226 U. S.

NATIONAL SURETY COMPANY v. ARCHITECTURAL DECORATING COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
MINNESOTA.

No. 425.

Submitted October 28, 1912.-Decided December 2, 1912.

While, in a general sense, the laws in force at the time the contract is
made enter into its obligation, the parties have no vested rights in
the particular remedies or modes' of procedure then existing. 'Water
Works Co. v. Oshkosh, 187 U. S.437.
There is abroad distinction between laws impairing the obligation of
contracts and those which simply undertake to give a more efficient
remedy to enforce a contract already made. Bernheimer v. Converse, 206 U. S.516.
Where; as the-state court has held in this case; the requirement that a
*preliminary notice that a third party intends to avail of the benefit
of a bond given for performance of a contract is a condition precedent
to an action on the bond, legislation altering the period within which
such notice must be given affects the remedy and not the contract
itself and does not amount to an impairment of the obligation of the
bond within the contract clause of the Federal Constitution.
Chapter 413 of the General Laws of Minnesota; of 1909, etending the
time within which third parties intending to avail of the benefit of
a bond given for completion of public buildings must serve notice
of intention so to do, effected merely a change in remedy without substantial modification of the obligation of the contract and is not an
unconstitutional impairment thereof.
115 Minnesota, 382, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the constitutionality of a
statute of Minnesota relating to enforcement of claims
under building bonds, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Jed L. Washburn, Mr. W. D. Bailey and Mr., Oscar
Mitchell for plaintiff in error:
By the common law as interpreted by. the Minnesota
Supreme Court at the time the bond in question was given,
no action could have been maintained by the Decorating
Company against plaintiff in error on the bond sued on.

NATIONAL SURETY CO. v. ARCHITECTURAL CO. 277
226 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The right of action given is statutory in its origin, and was
conditioned on giving the -proper notice. Park Brothers
& Company V. Sykes, 67 Minnesota, 153; Eidsvik v. Foley,
99 Minnesota, 468; Breen v. Kelly, 45 Minnesota, 352.
The statutes in force at the time the bond was executed
and delivered, in so far at least as they conditioned the
surety's liability, became a part of plaintiff in error's contract, 'including the requirement for notice therein, as
fully in all respects as if 'such requirement for notice had
been set out at length therein. Grant'v. Berrisford, 94
Minnesota, 45; United States v. Quincy, 4 Wall. 535;
Walker v. Whitehead, 16 Wall. 314; Edwards v. Kearzey,
96 U. S. 595; McCracken v. Hayward, 2 sHow. 608;
Barnitz v. Beverly, 163 U.S. 118; Bradley v. Lightcap, 195
U. S. 1; Harrisonv. Remington Paper Co., 140 Fed. Rep.
385.
The requirement for notice in the statute at the time
the bond was executed and delivered became a part of the
contract thereafter existing between the plaintiff in error
and the Decorating Company, and was a condition precedent to- liability and no part of the remedy. Grant'v.
Berrisford, 94 Minnesota, 45; The Harrisburg, 119 U. S.
199; Selma R. & D. R. Co. v. Lacey, 49 Georgia, 106;
Hamilton v. Hannibal & St. J. R. Co., 39 Kansas, 56;
Boyd v. Clark, 8 Fed. Rep. 849; Lambert v. Ensign Co., 42
W. Va. 813; Theroux v. N. P. Ry. Co., 64 Fed. Rep. 84;
Babcock v. N. P. Ry. Co., 154 U. S. 190; Slater v. Mexican
National R. R. Co., 194 U. S. 120; Simerson v. St. Louis &
S. F. R. Co.,, 173 Fed. Rep. 612; Pohl-man v. Railway Co.,
182 Fed. Rep. 492; Lange v. Railway Co., 126 Fed. Rep.
338; Veginan v. Morse, 1650 Massachusetts, 143; Healey
v. Geo. F. Blake Mfg. Co., 180 Massachusetts, 270; McRae
v. Railway Co., 199 Massachusetts, 418; Dolenty v.
Broadwater (Montana), 122 Pac. Rep. 191; Hudson v.
Bishop, 32 Fed. Rep". 519; S. C., 35 Fed. Rep. 820; United
States v. Winkler, 162 Fed. Rep; 397; United States v.

OCTODEIR TEIM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court..

226 U. S.

Boomer, 183 Fed. Rep. 726; Railway Co. v. Hine, 25 Oh.
St. 629; Denver & Rio Grande v. Wagner, 167 Fed. Rep.
75; Christie-Street Commission Co. v. United States, 126
Fed. Rep. 991, 996.
The requirement for notice bing a condition precedent

to the right of action, and no part of the remedy, could not
be dispensed with by any act of the legislature, and
chap. 413 of the Laws of 1909 dispensing with this notice, if applied to the bond in question, was unconstitutional as impairing the obligation of plaintiff in error's
contract. Miller v. Stewart, 9 Wheat. 680; United States
v. Freel, 186 U. S. 09; Governor v. Lagow, 43 Illinois, 141;
People v. Tompkins, 74 Illinois, 487; Grocer's Bank v.
Kingman, 16 Gray, 476; Schuster v. Weiss, 114 Missouri,
171; King County v. Ferry, 5 Washington, 554; Green v.
Biddle, 8 Wheat. 1, 84; Bank v. Sharp,'6 How. 326;
Golden v. Prince, 10 Fed. Cases, No. 544; Louisiana v.
New Orleans, 102 U. S. 203.
Mr. Arcadius L. Agatin for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an action to recover damages for the breach of a
bond made by the plaintiff in error as surety together with
one Henricksen as principal, given to a certain school
district of the State of Minnesota,' conditioned that Henricksen should pay all just claims for work, materials, etc.,
furnished for the completion of a school building, for the
construction of which he, had made a contract with the
district; the bond being given, according to its own recitals, for the use of the school district and of all persons
doing work or furnishing materials under the contract.
The contract and bond were made in the year 1908. The
bond, was executed and delivered pursuant to the provisions of the Minnesota statutes found in Rev. Laws

NATIONAL SURETY CO. v. ARCHITECTURAL CO. 279
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Minn. 1905, §§ 4535 to 4539, inclusive, which in effect require every public corporation of the State, on entering
into a contract for thedoing of any public work, to take a
bond for its own use and for the use of all persons furnishing labor or material under or for the purpose of the contract, and which entitle any person so furnishing labor or
material to maintain an action upon the bond, under certain conditions.
The defendant in error, during the months of July and
August,
1909, performed certain services and furnished
certain materials
to Henriclksen for use in carrying out his
qontract, for which a sum exceeding one thousand dollars
remained due and unpaid, and to recover the amount so
due this action was brought.
By § 4539, above referred. to, which was in force at the
time the contract for building the school was made and
the bond given, it was enacted that-" No action shall be
maintained on, any such bond unless within ninety days
after performing the last item of work, or furnishing the
last item of skill, tools, machinery, or material, the plaii-.
tiff shall serve upon the principal and, his sureties a written
notice specifying the nature and amouit of his claim and
the date of furnishing the last item thereof, nor unless the
action is begun within one year after the cause of action
accrues."
On April 22, 1909, this section was amended by chapter 413, G. L. 1909, p. 501, so as to require the notice of
claim to be given within ninety days "after the completion of the contract and acceptance of the building by
the proper public authorities," instead of within ninety
days "after performing the last item of work or furnishing
the last item of skill,, tools,, machinery, or material," and
further amended by requiring the action to be begun
within one year "after the service of such notice," instead
-of within one year "after the cause of action accrues."
It will be observed that this change in the law went

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

into effect before the defendant in error performed the
services and furnished the materials upon which the present action is based.
Defendant in error did not give notice to plaintiff in
error in time to comply with §4539, R. L. 1905, but did
give such notice in time to comply with the amended
act, if that be the applicable law.
The Supreme Court of the State of Minnesota in the
present case held that the act of 1909 controlled, although
passed after the bond in question was given, overruling
the contention of plaintiff in error that the statute as so
construed impairs the obligation of the contract contained
in the bond, and is therefore contrary to § 10 of Art. I of
the Federal Constitution. 115 Minnesota, 382.
The only question that *need be here considered is
whether the act of 1909, as thus construed, does impair
the obligation of the contract.
Sections 4535-4539, R. L. 1905, originated in chap. 354
of the General Laws of 1895: and -chap, 307 of the General Laws of 1897. Prior to this legislation the Supreme Court of Minnesota had held in Breen v. Kelly
(1891), 45 Minnesota, 352, that although a' municipal
corporation, having authority to cause certhin public
work to be done and to make contracts for the doing of' it,
probably had implied authority to take security for its
own protection, it had no. authority to take security
for third-persons, nor capacity to act as trustee in a contract made for their benefit, without express legislative
authority; 'and that such a bond, although voluntarily
given, was void. The same principle was adhered to in
Park Bros. v. Sykes (1897), 67 Minnesota, 153.
By chap. 354 of the Laws of 1895, which first created.
the statutory right of action in fav6r of third persons
upon such a bond, no notice by the third person to the
principal or sureties was required as a condition precedent
to his right to -sue. He was merely obliged to bring his

NATIONAL SURETY CO. v.ARCHITECTURAL 'CO. 281
226 U. S.

Opinion ol the Court.

action within one year after the cause of action accrued.
Notice by the plaintiff to the principal and sureties was
first required by chap. 307 of the Laws of 1897, the
third section of which contained the same provisions that
were afterwards embodied in the Revision of 1905, as
§ 4539, above quoted.
The Supreme Court of Minnesota, in the year 1904,
in Grant v. Berrisford, 94 -Minnesota, 45, 49, construed
G. L. 1897, chap. 307, § 3, as follows: '"The provision
in the general law requiring notice within ninety days
after the last item of labor or materials is done or performed, before bringing an action on the bond, is not
analogous to a statute of limitations, but it is a condition
precedent which must be performed bWfore the right to
bring an action on the bond accrues. Or in other words,
it is a condition or burden placed upon the beneficiaries
of the bond which they must perform or remove before
they can avail themselves of its benefits. It is as much
so as would be the case if this provision of the general
statutewas set out as a proviso in the bond."
The argument for plaintiff in error is to the effect that
since the right of action by a third party upon such a bond
is of statutory origin, and since the statute in force at the
time the bond in suit was given required a preliminary iiotice given to the obligors within a certain time, which notice (under Grantv. Berrisford) constituted a condition, precedent to the action as much as if it had been set out as
a proviso in the bond,'a subsequent act of legislation dispensing with such notice, or changing the time within
which it was required to be given, impairs the validity of
the contract within the melaning of § 10 of Art. I of the
Constitution.
The argument rests at bottom Upon the proposition
'that because it reqiired legislation to render such a bond
actionable in behalf of third parties, the obligation of
the bond as a contract is of statutory origin. But this

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

is not entirely clear. Treating the bond as voluntarily
made, and aside from the statute, it is, in its essence, a
contract between the obligors (including the Surety Company), ,on the one hand, and "all persons doing work or
furnishing materials" for the construction of the school
building (including the Decorating Company as one of
those persons), on the other hand. The circumstance
that the obligee in the bond as written was a public corporation named as trustee for the workmen and materialmen affects the form and not the substance of the obligation. The decision in Breen v. Kelly, denying the third
party's right of action and holding such a bond void as
to him, was not based upon any illegality or want of
consideration in the contract, nor upon any incapacity of
the obligors to make it; nor, indeed, uponany incapacity,
on the part of the real obfigees to accept and rely upon
such an undertaking. It proceeded wholly upon the
ground of the legal incapacity of the municipal corporation to act as trustee for the persons beneficially interested.
But where parties have, in good faith and for a valuable
consideration, entered into an engagement that is not
contrary to good morals, and is invalid only because' of
some legal impediment, such as the incapacity of a nominal
party or the omission of some merely formal requirement,
there is ground for maintaining that the legislature may
by subsequent enactment provide a legal remedy, andthus give vitality to the obligation that the parties intended -to 'create. Cooley's Const. Lim., *293, *374;
Sutherland on U. S. Const. .428, 429; Ewell v. Daggs, 108
U. S 143, 151; Gross v. United States-Mortgage Co., 108
U. S. 477, 488.
Nevertheless, granting, for the sake of the argument,
the contention of the plaintift in error that the contract
in suit, so far as pertai'ns to its obligation, is of statutory
origin, it by no means follows that'the provision respecting a preliminary notice to the obligors, as a condition

NATIONAL SURETY CO. v. ARCHITECTURAL CO. 283
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

precedent to suit thereon, although contained in the law
as it stood at the time the bond was given, cannot be
constitutionally modified by subsequent legislation. The
decision must turn, we think, upon the familiar distinction
between a law which enlarges, abridges or modifies the
obligation of a contract, and a law which merely modifies
the remedy, by changing the time or the method in which
the remedy shall be pursued, without substantial interference with the obligation of the contract itself.
As Chief Justice Marshall observed in Ogden v. Saunders, 12 Wheat. 213, 349, the obligation and the remedy
originate at different times. "The obligation to perform
is coeval with the undertaking to perform; it originates
with the contract- itself, and operates anterior to the
time of performance. The remedy acts upon a broken
contract, and enforces a preexisting obligation."
The distinction was well expressed by Mr. Justice Harlan, speaking for this, ourt, as follows: "It is well settled
that while, in a general sense, the laws in force at the time
a contract is made enter into its obligation, parties have
no vested right in the particular remedies or modes of
procedure then existing. It is true the Legislature may
not withdraw all remedies, and thus, in effect, destroy
the contract; nor may it impose such new restrictions or
conditions as would materially delay or embarrass the
enforcement of rights under the contract according to the
usual course of justice as established when the contract
was made. Neither could be done without impairing
the obligation of the contract. But it is equally well
settled that the Legislature may modify or change existing remedies or prescribe new modes of procedure, without impairing the obligation of contracts, provided a
substantial or efficacious remedy remains or is given, by
means of which a party can enforce his rights under the
contract." Oshkosh Water Works Co. v. Oshkosh, 187
U. S. 437, 439; citing many previous cases.

OCTOBER TERM, 1912.
Opinion of the Court.

226 U. S.

In Bernheimer v. Converse, 206 U. S. 516, this court
held that a statute of Minnesota, enacted for the purpose
of giving a more efficient remedy to enforce the contractual liability of stockholders to creditors, by enabling a
receiver to maintain an action for the benefit of creditors
outside of the jurisdiction of the court appointing him,a remedy that by the laws of Minnesota was not available
at the time the stock liability in question arose,--did not
impair the obligation of the contract. Mr. Justice Day,
speaking for the court, said, (at p. 530): "Is there anything in the obligation of this contract which is impaired
by subsequent legislation as to the remedy enacting new
means of making the liability more effectual? The obligation of this contract binds the stockholder to pay to
the creditors of the corporation an amount sufficient to
pay the debts of the corporation which its assets will not
pay, up to an amount equal to the stock held by each
shareholder. That is his contract, and the duty which
the statute imposes, and that is his obligation. Any
statute which took away the benefit of such contract or
obligation would be void as to the creditor, and any attempt to increase the obligation beyond that incurred
by the stockholder would fall within the prohibition of
the Constitution. But there was nothing in the laws of
Minnesota undertaking to make effectual the constitutional provision to which we have referred, preventing
the legislature from giving additional remedies to make
the obligation of the stockholder effectual, so long as his
original undertaking was not enlarged. There is a broad
distinction between laws impairing the obligation of contracts and those which simply undertake to give a more
efficient remedy to enforce a contract already made."
Again, in Henley v. Myers, 215 U. S. 373, where defendants became -stockholders in a Kansas corporation
at a time when by the laws of that State the stockholders
of an insolvent corporation were liable to pay for the

NATIONAL SURETY CO. v. ARCHITECTURAL CO. 285
226 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

benefit of creditors an amount equal to the par value of
their stock, and the stock of the corporation was transferable only on the books of the corporation in such manner
as the law prescribed; and afterwards, and before defendants sold their stock, the previous statute was amended
so as to require the officers of a corporation, as soon as
any transfer of stock was made upon its books, to at once
file a statement thereof with the Secretary of State, and
so that no transfer of stock should be legal or binding
until such statement was made; and defendants, before
insolvency of the corporation, transferred their stock upon
-the books of the corporation, but did not procure a statement of the transfer to be filed with the Secretary of
State, and were therefore held liable in the state court
to an action in favor of the receiver for the benefit of
creditors; this court held that the-act requiring stock
transfers to be noted upon the public records, and
providing that no transfer of'stock should otherwise
be legal or binding, did not impair the obligation of
the contract under which the defendants acquired their
stock.
In the case now before us, we agree with the Minnesota
Supreme Court in the View that the requirement of a
preliminary notice to the obligors as a condition precedent
of an action upon the borid, affects the remedy and not
the substantive agreement of the parties. And although
the statute as it stood when the bond was given (R. L.
1905, §4539) must, under Grantv. Berrisford,be treated as
if written into the contract, it still imposed a condition not
upon the obligation, but only upon the remedy for breach
of the obligation. Therefore, the subsequent statute (G. L.
1909, chap. 413), effected merely a change in the remedy,
without substantial modification of the obligation of. the
contract.
Judgment affirmed.

