OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Syllabus.

213 U. S.

In re WINN.
APPLICATION FOR A WRIT OF MANDAMUS
ABLE SMITH MCPHERSON,

AGAINST THE HONOR-

DISTRICT JUDGE OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF IOWA, CbNTRAL DIVISION,

AND AGAINST THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF IOWA, CENTRAL DIVISION.
No. 12, Original.

Argued April 5, 1909.-Deeided May 3, 1909.

No cause can be removed from the state court to the Circuit Court of
the United States unless it could have originally been brought in the
latter court. Boston Mining Co. v. Montana Ore Co., 188 U. S. 632,
and Ex parte Wisner, 203 U. S.449.
A suit only arises under the Constitution and laws of the United States
within the meaning of § 1 of the act of August 13, 1888, c. 866, 25 Stat.
433, conferring jurisdiction on the Circuit Court when the plaintiff's

statement of his own cause of action shows that it is based on those
laws or that Constitution, and it is not enough that defendant may
base his defense thereon. Louisville & Nashville Railroad v. Mottley,
211 U. S. 149.
Although a defendant in the state court may set up a defense based on
Federal rights which will, if denied, entitle him ultimately to have
the decision reviewed by this court, if the Federal question does not
appear in the plaintiff's statement the case is not removable to the
Circuit Court of the United States.
A writ of mandamus when issued under § 688, Rev. Stat., is for the purpose of revising and correcting proceedings in a case'already instituted
in the courts and is part of the appellate jurisdiction of this court,
which is subject to such regulations as Congress shall make.
Mandamus will lie from this court to compel a Circuit Court to remand
a case to the state court where it is apparent from the record that the
Circuit Court has no jurisdiction whatever, and the writ Will lie even
though the party aggrieved may also be entitled to appeal or writ
of error.
While mandamus never lies where the party praying therefor has another
adequate remedy, an appeal or writ of error at the end. of a litigation,
which must go for naught, is not an adequate remedy for a plaintiff

In re WINN.
213 U. S.

Argument for Petitioner.

whose case has been wrongfully removed from the state court to the
Circuit Court, and held there against his protest.
The rule that mandamus will not lie to control the judicial discretion of
an inferior court does not apply to an attempt of that court to exercise
its discretion on subject-matter not within its jurisdiction. In re
Pollitz, 206 U. S. 323, and Ex parts Nebraska, 209 U. S. 436, distinguished.
While a general appearance in. the Circuit Court after removal may
amount to a waiver of objection to the jurisdiction if some Circuit
Court has jurisdiction of the cause, In re Moore, 209 U. S. 490, neither
appearance nor consent can confer jurisdiction where no Circuit
Court has jurisdiction of the controversy. Ex parte Wisner, 203
U. S. 449.
THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Guy A. Miller, with whom Mr. W. H. Bremner was on
the brief, for petitioner:
Mandamus does not lie to control judicial discretion, except
when that discretion has been abused; but it is a remedy when
the case is outside of the exercise of this discretion, and outside
the jurisdiction of the court or officer to which or to whom the
writ is addressed. One of its peculiar and more common uses
is to restrain inferior courts, and to keep them within their
lawful bounds. Virginia v. Rives (Ex parte Virginia), 100 U. S.
316; Ex parte Wisner, 203 U. S. 449; Ex parte Nebraska, 209
U. S. 436, and Re Pollitz, 206 U. S. 323, distinguished, because
in those cases the discretionary powers necessary to defeat the
issuance of the writ of mandamus were exercised in connection
with matters outside the record.
Want of jurisdiction from any cause appearing on the face
of the record, entitles plaintiff to a writ of mandamus where
the Federal court refuses to perform the duty to remand, as
these cases are outside the discretion and jurisdiction of the
court. Cases supra and Virginia v. Paul, 148 U. S. 107.
Under §§ 1, 2, 3, of the act of March 3, 1875, 18 Stat. c. 137,
as amended by the act of March 3, 1887, 24 Stat. 552, c. 373,
corrected by the act of August. 13, 1888, 25 Stat. 433, c. 866,
an action commenced in the state court, by a citizen of another.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Respondent.

213 U. S.

State, against a non-resident defendant, who is a citizen of a
State other than that of plaintiff, cannot be removed by the
defendant into the Circuit Court, on the ground df diverse
citizenship, at least where the plaintiff resists the removal.
Ex parte Wisner, supra.
A case cannot be removed to the Circuit Court from a state
cQurt, on the ground that it arises under the laws of the United States, unless that fact appears from the plaintiff's statement of his own claim; and if it does not so appear, the want
cannot be supplied by any statement in the petition for removal or in any subsequent pleadings. Metcalf v. Watertown,
128 U. S. 586; Minnesota v. Northern Securities Co., 194 U. S.
453; Tennessee v. Union & Planters' Bank, 152 U. S. 453.
It is not enough that in the progress of litigation a question
under those laws would arise, since that does not show that
plaintiff's action derived its life from those laws. Louisville &
Nashville Railroad Co. v. Mottley, 211 U. S.149.
The suggestion: on the part of the defendant that he will
set up a defense or claim under the laws of the United States
does not make the suit one arising under those laws. Tennessee
v. Union & Planters' Bank, supra; Boston & M. Con. Copper
S. Min.Co. v. Montana Ore Pu. Co., 188 U. S.632.
Were the plaintiff to admit all the allegations in petition for
removal, relative to the act to regulate commerce, it would only
show that the plaintiff was unable to recover, and not that
this case arises under any law of the United States. Arkansas
v. Kansas & Texas Coal Co., 183 U. S. 185.
The question whether or not a shipper is entitled to recover
more than the declared value of stock in a contract for interstate shipment does not present a Federai question. Pennsylvania R. Co. v. Hughes, 191 U. S. 477.
Mr. Nathaniel T. Guernsey, with whom Mr. Alonzo C.
Parker and Mr. William E. Miller were on the brief; for respondent:
The jurisdiction of the Circuit Court is beyond'question.

In re WINN.
213 U. S.

Argument for Respondent.

It affirmatively appears from the pleadings filed by the
petitioner, Winn, that the parties are citizens of different
States and that the amount in controversy exceeds the sum
or value of $2,000. Ex parte Wisner, 203 U. S. 449, does not
control, because both parties waived any objection which
might have been urged to the maintenance of the suit in the
Southern District of Iowa. The defendant did this by its petition for removal, general appearance, stipulation for; and
filing, cost bond and for time to plead. Construction Company
v. Gibney, 160 U. S.217-220; Re Moore, 209 U. S. 490.
Upon the face of the plaintiff's petition, the case presented
questions arising under the laws of the United States.
The character of a case is determined by the questions involved, and if it appears that the claim will be defeated by one
construction of a law of the United States or sustained by the
opposite construction, it is a case arising under the laws of the
United States. Starin v. New York, 115 U. S.248-257; Tennessee v. Union & Planters' Bank, 152 U. S. 454; Bankers
Casualty Co. v. Minn., St. P. &c. Ry. Co., 192 U. S.371-380.
This doctrine does not conflict with the line of cases holding that a Federal question may not be imported into a case
by the averments of the answer. Upon the face of the petition
filed in the state court, the case necessarily involved the determination of whether the contract limiting the liability of the
defendant to $50 is valid under the provisions of §20 of the act
to regulate commerce as amended by § 7 of the Hepburn Act,
which has already been considered by the Interstate Commerce
Commission, Matter of Released Rates, 13 Interstate Comm.
Comm. 550, but has not been authoritatively determined by
the courts. Penna. R. R. v. Hughes, 191 U. S.477, having
*been decided prior to the Hepburn Act, is not in point.
Also whether the special contract to haul the hog in a single
covered wagon is valid, it being a special service not cbvered
by a tariff. Wight v. United States, 167 U. S'512.
Also whether misrepresentation, by the shipper of the value
of the hog, in order to secure a lower rate; was a violation of

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

the act to regulate commerce; and if so, its effect upon the
plaintiff's claim.
Mandamus is not the proper remedy. The determination of
the motion to remand involved an exercise of judicial judgment and discretion, which must be reviewed, if at all, by appeal. In re Pollitz, 206 U. S. 330; Ex parte Nebraska, 209 U. S.
436.
MR. JusTICE MOODY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is an application for a writ of mandamus to the District Judge of the United States, acting as Circuit Judge, for
the Southern District of Iowa, Central Division. The prayer
of the petition was for a rule to show cause why a Wvrit of mandamus should not issue commanding the Judge to remand the
case to the state court in which it was originally brought.
The rule was issued and cause was shown by a return. From
the petition and the return the following state of facts appears: The petitioner, as assignee of the right of action of a
shipper, brought in a state court of Iowa, an action at law
against the American Express Company for the negligent
transportation of a boar, whereby the animal was killed, to
the damage, it was alleged, to the owner of $8,000. The transportation' was under a written contract between the owner
and the defendant, which was annexed to the declaration as
an exhibit. The shipment was from a point in Iowa to a point
in Nebraska. The citizenship of the plaintiff or his assignor
was not alleged, but the defendant was alleged to be a citizen
of New York. The defefidant seasonably filed in the ftate
court a petition for removal to the Circuit Court of the United States, with accompanying bond in proper form.' The
petition having been denied in the state court, the defendant
duly filed a copy of the record in the Circuit Court of the United States, and it was there docketed, whereupon plaintiff
moved to remand the case, and the motion was denied by the
Circuit Judge. The plaintiff thereupon, without further action
in the Circuit Court, began this proceeding.

In re WINN.
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

The petition for removal alleged that the plaintiff was a
citizen of Missouri and the defendant "a joint stock association
organized under the laws of the State of New York," but contained no allegation of the citizenship of the members of the
association. It was agreed at the argument that the defendant was not a corporation but a joint stock association. Therefore the diversity of citizenship required to warrant a removal
on that ground does not appear. The petition for removal,
which is printed in the margin,, was not based upon diversity

I Your petitioner, the American Express Company, respectfully shows
that it is the defendant in the above-entitled suit, and that the matter
and amount in dispute in the said suit exceeds, exclusive of interest and
costs, the sum or value of two thousand dollars ($2,000.00).

That your said petitioner was, at the time of the bringing of this suit,
and still is a joint stock association, organized under the laws of the
State of New York, in such cases made and provided, and that the plaintiff was then and still is a citizen of the State of Missouri.
Your petitioner further shows that the said suit is one of a civil nature,
in which the plaintiff seeks to recover from the defendant the sum of
eight thousand dollars ($8,000.00) as damages on account of an alleged
failure on the part of the defendant to comply with its obligations as a
common carrier in the shipment and transportation of a hog, which the
assignor of plaintiff offered to the defendant and which the defendant
received from the assignor of plaintiff on or about the 30th day of August,
A. D. 1907, for transportation from the State Fair Grounds at Des Moines
in the State of Iowa, to the city of Lincoln, in the State of Nebraska.
That the defendant denies that it failed in any respect to perform its
obligations with reference to the transportation of the said hog, and
denies that. it is liable upon the claim set up in the said suit, in any
amount, and denies that, in any event, its liability could exceed the sum
or value of fifty dollars ($50.00).
That the said suit is one arising under the laws of the United States.
That your petitioner is, and was, at all the times mentionetl in the peti-

tion in this suit a common carrier engaged in trade and commerce between the several States of the United States, and between the Territories thereof, and between the Territories and the several States.
That at the date of the shipment in question your petitioner was, and
ever since that time has been, subject to the provisions of the act of Congress, entitled "An Act to Regulate Commerce," approved February 4,
1887, and of the acts of Congress amendatory thereof und supplementary.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

of citizenship but upon the ground that the suit was one arising under the laws of the United States.
It is well settled that no cause can be removed from the state
court to the Circuit Court of the United States unless it could
originally have been brought in the latter court. Boston &c.
Mining Co. v. Montana Ore Co., 188 U. S. 632; 640; Ex parte
Wisner, 203 U. S. 449.
The only ground of jurisdiction which is or can be suggested
thereto, and that the alleged cause of action set up in said suit is based
upon, grows out of and necessarily involves the construction of said acts
of Congress. That among the questions arising under said acts and
necessarily involved in said suit are(a) Whether the contract on which said suit is based is legal and enforceable by the shipper or the plaintiff as his assignee in view of.the fact
that it appears on the face of this contract that if the claim made in the
petition as to the value of the hog in question is true, the shipper, by
means of its undervaluation, violated the penal provisions of the Act to
Regulate Commerce as amended.
(b) Whether, under the Act to Regulate Commerce, as amended, the
plaintiff may assert a claim for damages in an amount in excess of the
value declared by the shipper to be the true value, and, upon this declaration, made the basis of the rate for the interstate transportation
in question.
(c) Whether, under the Act to Regulate Commerce, as amended, the
provisions of the contract in suit, limiting the liability of the defendant
to the sum declared by the shipper in said contract to be the actual value'
of the animal in question, is valid and enforceable.
(d) Whether, under the Act to Regulate Commerce, as amended, the
plaintiff, as assignee of the shipper, is estopped to'set up in this suit that
the hog in question was of a greater value than the value declared to be
its true value in the contract sued upon.
(e) Whether the undervaluation of the hog in question by the shipper.
in order to obtain a rate for its interstate transportation -lower than the
published established rate constituted a violation by the shipper of the
penal provisions of the Act to Regulate Commerce, as amended.
(/) Whether, if said penal provisions were so violated, the plaintiff's
suit is founded upon what in law is his own wrong so as to.preclude a
recovery by him.
(g)" Other questions arising under said Act to Regulate Commerce,
as amended.

In re WINN.
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

is that the suit was one arising under the Constitution and the
laws of the United States. 25 Stat. 433, 434. It is the settled
interpretation of these words, as used in this statute conferring
jurisdiction, that a suit arises under the Constitution and laws
of the United States only when the plaintiff's statement of
his own cause of action shows that it is based upon those laws
or that Constitution. It is not enough, as the law now exists,
that it appears that the defendant may find in the Constitution or laws of the United States some ground of defense.
Louisville & Nashville Railroad v. Mottley, 211 U. S. 149, and
cases cited. If the defendant has any such defense to the
plaintiff's claim it may be set up in the state courts, and if
properly set up and denied by the highest court of the State
may ultimately be brought to this court for decision.
Tested by these principles, the record, including the petition
for removal, shows, affirmatively that the case was not one
arising under the laws of the United States. In substance, the
allegations of the petition for removal are, that the defendant
was subject to the Federal laws to regulate commerce, and
that under those laws the defendant had a defense in whole or
in part to the cause of action stated in the declaration. "But
the cause of action itself is not based upon the interstate commerce law or upon any other law of the United States. The
case could not have been brought originally, in the Circuit
Court of the United States, and was therefore not removable
thereto. In holding otherwise we think the learned Judge of
the Circuit Court erred.
It is, however, argued that mandamus is not the remedy for
the correction of such an error as we have pointed out, and
that the aggrieved party should be left to his writ of errora remedy which he undoubtedly has.
Authority to issue writs of mandamus to any courts appointed under the authority of the United States was given
to this court by a provision in the original Judiciary Act, which
now appears in § 688 of the Revised Statutes. A writ of mandamus issued under this provision is for the purpose of revisVOL. ccxiii-30

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

ing and correcting proceedings in a case already instituted in
the courts, and is deemed a part of the appellate jurisdiction
of this court, which is subject to such regulations as the Congress shall make. Marbury v. Madison, 1 Cr. 137; Ex parte
Yerger, 8 Wall. 85, 97; In re Green, 141 U. S. 325, 326.
In Ex parte Crane, 5 Pet. 190, the court of its own motion
considered and sustained its authority to issue mandamus to
inferior courts, and in that case directed by mandamus a judge
of an inferior court to sign a bill of exceptions duly presented.
Since that time writs of mandamus to inferior courts have
been issued in all proper cases.
In Ex parte Bradley, 7 Wall. 364, it was held that a mandamus from this court would lie to an inferior court of the
United States, directing it to restore an attorney to the rolls
who had been disbarred, where the court was without jurisdiction in that regard. And it was said, page 377: "The ground
of our decision . . . is, that the court below had no
jurisdiction to disbar the relator. . . . No amount of
judicial discretion of a court can supply a defect or want of
jurisdiction in the case. . The subject-matter is not before it;
the proceeding is coram non judice and void."
A specific application of the general principle announced in
Ex parte Bradley has been made to cases where Circuit Courts
of the United States have, without authority, assumed jurisdiction of a case originally brought in .a state court, and it has
frequently been held that mandamus from this court would
lie to compel a Circuit Court to remand a case to the state
court where it is apparent from the record that the Cit-cuit
Court has no jurisdiction whatever of the case. Virginia.v..
Rives, 100 U. S.313; Virginia v. Paul, 148 U. S.107; Kentucky
v. Powers, 201 U. S. 1; Ex parte Wisner, 203 U. 8. 449. And
see Matter of Dun, 212 U. S.374. In such a situation the
remedy by mandamus is available, although the aggrieved
party may also be entitled to. a writ of error or an appeal.
Mandamus, it is true, never lies where the party praying for
it has another adequate remedy. Th writ of mandamus

In re WINN.
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

was introduced to supplement the existing jurisdiction of the
courts and to afford relief in extraordinary cases where the law
presents no adequate remedy. High on Extraordinary Legal
Remedies, 3d ed., §15. But where, without any right, a court
of the United States has wrested from a state court the control
of a suit pending in it an appeal or writ of error, at the end of
long proceedings, which must go for naught, is not an adequate
remedy.
In Virginia v. Rives, supra, the State, after the cause had
been removed to the Circuit Court, filed its petition in this
court for mandamus, without having made a motion to remand
in the Circuit Court; but in the opinion nothing turned on the
absence of a motion to remand, and the remedy by mandamus
was held to exist "when the case is outside of the exercise
of (judicial discretion), and outside the jurisdiction of the
Court

.

.

.

to which

.

.

.

the writ is addressed. One

of its peculiar and more common uses is to restrain inferior
courts and to keep them within their lawful bounds," p. 323.
.Exparte Bradley is then referred to and its discussion approved.
Then followed Ex parte Hoard, 105 U. S. 578, where it is held'
that if the Circuit Court had denied a motion to remand to the
state court the party aggrieved must resort to his writ of error,
and that mandamus would be denied, without determining
whether the case was properly removed or not. In the three
following cases, however, Virginia v. Paul,Kentucky v. Powers,
and "Ex parte Wisner, supra, the Circuit Court had denied motions to remand (the denial of the motion in Kentucky v.
Powers, appearing in the judgment of the court below, 139
Fed. Rep. 452) before the petition for mandamus was filed.
Nevertheless, the writ of mandamus was issued upon the
ground that it was plain as matter of law from the record itself
that the Circuit Court was without jurisdiction. This must
now be regarded as the settled law.
The respondent, however, insists that mandamus will not
lie to control the judgment or judicial discretion of the court
to which the writ is proposed to be directed. This is true

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

where the judgment or judicial discretion is within the limits
of jurisdiction, but not.otherwise. Wherever the. record, including the petition f& removal, shows that there are questions
of fact upon whose determination the right of removal depends.
and upon which it is the duty of the Circuit Court to pass judicially, then there is jurisdiction to decide those questions.
Their decision is the exercise of judicial discretion, and if that
discretion is erroneously, exercised it can be corrected only by
a writ of error or appeal. In these cases writs of mandamus
must not be permitted to usurp the functions of writs of error
or appeals or take their place where they offer an adequate
remedy to the aggrieved party. It is only in cases where the
record makes it clear, as matter of law, that the Circuit Court
was without jurisdiction to take any action whatever that
the writ of mandamus lies. This distinction has been acted on.
many times by this court, and it is enough to refer to two very
recent cases. Thus where the -removability of a case turned
upon the question whether there was a separable controversy,
to the trial of which certain of the defendants were not indispensable or necessary parties, it was held that the Circuit Court
had jurisdiction to determine the question of separability; that
its decision in that respect was the exercise of judicial discretion and could not be controlled by a writ of mandafnus. In
re James Pollitz, 206 U..S. 323. The same point was decided
in Ex parte Nebraska, 209 U. S. 436.. In each of these cases a
distinction wa' made between it and a case where on the face
of the record absolutely no jurisdiction has attached, and the
right to a writ of mandamus in the latter case was affirmed.
As we have shown, the want of jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court appears clearly on the record in the case at bar, and does
nQt, as in In re PoUitz and Ex parte Nebraska, depend upon
findings of fact which the Circuit Court had jurisdiction to
make. We think, therefore, it is clear that the writ of mandamus ought to issue.
A subordinate question must receive some attention. It is
Wad that the petitioner in this case appeared generally in the

In re WINN.
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Circuit Court after the rem6val of the case, and thereby waived
his right to object to the jurisdiction, and In re Moore, 209
U. S. 490, is cited in support of the position. But that case
simply held that where there was a diversity of citizenship,
which gave jurisdiction to some Circuit Court, the objection
that there was no jurisdiction in a particular district might be
-waived by appearing and pleading to the merits, and anything'
to the contrary said in Ex parte Wisner, 203 U. S. 449, was

overruled, though the Wisner case was otherwise left untouched. See Western Loan Co. v. Butte & Boston Mining Co.,
210 U. S. 368, 369. Here, however, is a case where, upon its
face, no Circuit Court of the United States had jurisdiction of
the controversy, originally or by removal. In such a case the
consent of the parties cannot confer jurisdiction. Louisville &
Nashville R. R. v. Mottley, 211 U. S. 149, and cases cited.
The rule is made absolute and the writ of mandamus awarded.

