OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH COMPANY v. WILSON.
ERROR TO THE CORPORATION COURT OF THE CITY OF RADFORD,
STATE OF VIRGINIA.

No. 65. Argued January 11, 1909.-Decided March 1, 1909.
To give this court jurisdiction under § 709, Rev. Stat., not only must a
right under the Constitution of the United States be specially set up,
but it must appear that the right was denied in fact or that the judgment could not have been rendered without denying it.
Where the constitutional right was not set up in the original plea, and
the record does not.disclose the reasons of the state court for refusing
to allow a new plea setting up the constitutional right, and the record
shows that the refusal might have been sufficiently based on nonFederal grounds, this court cannot review the judgment under 1 709,
Rev. Stat.
In the absence of action on the part of Congress a State may regulate
the conduct of local delivery of telegraph messages after the interstate
transit by wire is completed.
Where it does not appear in the record that a telegraph message between
two points in the same State had to be transmitted partly through
another State, except by a plea which the state court refused, on nonFederal grounds, to allow to be filed, no Federal question" is involved
and this court cannot review the judgment under § 709, Rev. Stat.

The facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Rush Taggart, with whom Mr. John F. Dillon, Mr.
George H. Fearons and Mr. FrancisRaymond Stark were on the
brief, for plaintiff in error.

Mr. James R. Caton, for defendant in error, submitted.
MR. JUSTICE tiOLMEs delivered the opinion of the court.,
This is an action against the Telegraph Company, in two
counts. The first alleges a failure to transmit a message from
Graham, 'Virginia, to: Eat Radford, in the same State, as

WESTERN UNION TELEGRAPH CO. v. WILSON.
218 U.S.

53

Opinion of the Court.

promptly as practicable. The second alleges a failure to deliver
the message as promptly as practicable after its arrival at East
Radford. Both seek to recover $100, under statutes of the
State imposing a forfeiture of that sum in such cases to the
sender of the dispatch. The declaration was filed in April, 1906.
In June the defendant filed a demurrer and general denial by
leave of court. On February 25 of the next year, when the case'
was about to be tried, the Telegraph Company offered a special
plea that its only proper and regular route for transmitting the
message was by the way of Bluefield, West Virginia, to Washington, in the District of Columbia, and thence, by relaying, to
East Radford; that it did promptly dispatch the message from
Graham to Washington, but by mistake sent it from Washington to Cincinnati, causing a delay; that the transmission of the
message was interstate commerce, and that therefore the statute
of Virginia, act of January 18, 1904, c. 8, § 5, as applied to the
part of the transmission outside the State, was void. Constitution of United States, Art. I, § 8, cl. 3. The conclusion of the
plea was that the plaintiff could not "recover the penalty in his
declaration demanded," and the defendant prayed judgment.
The court refused to allow the plea to be filed, and the defendant excepted. A trial followed, at which the plaintiff got a
judgment. The errors assigned are that the court refused to
allow the defendant to file the above plea, and that it rendered
judgment for the plaintiff instead of for the defendant.
This case comes here from a state court, and, of course, therefore it must appear that a Federal question necessarily was involved in the decision before this court can take jurisdiction or
undertake to reverse the judgment of a tribunal .over which it
has no general power. It is not enough that a right under the
Constitution of the United States was specially set up and
claimed. It must be made manifest either that the right was
denied in fact, or that the judgment could not have been iendered without denying it. DeSaussure v. Gaillard, 127 U. S.
216; Johnson v. Risk, 137 U. S. 300; Leathe v. Thomas, 207
U. S. 93, 99. See also Bachtel v. Wilson, 204 U. S. 36.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

The reasons which led the court to refuse leave to file the plea
in this case do not appear. But it is apparent on the face of the
record that there are at least two grounds on which it is possible
that leave may have been denied before the Federal question
was reached. The original demurrer and answer seem to have
been late, as they were filed by leave of court. This plea was
not offered until more than nine months after the declaration,
when the case was called for trial. The circumstances are not
disclosed, and it may be that the court, in its discretion, considered that it was unjust for the plaintiff to be called upon to
meet a new and erious issue at the last moment. Again, the
plea, although it only referred to the section of the statute upon
which the first count was based, went, in terms, to the whole
declaration, and prayed judgment. It clearly was bad as to the
second count. In the absence of any action on the part of Congress, at least, it would not be denied that a State could regulate
the conduct of local messengers when the transit by wire was
over. Western Union Telegraph Co. v. James, 162 U. S. 650.
It cannot be said that the second count was abandoned, for
nothing of the sort appears, and the plea was offered before
trial, so that the evidence was not in. If the plea was not good
for all that it attempted to cover, it was bad altogether. It may
be that if we were dealing with the judgment of a lower court of
the, United States we should think that there were sufficient
grounds for looking through the form to the substance of what
the pleader seems to have had most in mind, but when we are
considering the action of a state court we cannot say that the
local tribunal did not yield to an argument' that Saunders
would have deemed conclusive and that Gould or Stephen
would have regarded as an end of the case. 1 Wins. .Saund. 28;
Gould P1., 4th ed., § 104.
The first assignment of error falls for the reasons that we have
stated, and the second falls with it. The second is that the
court erred in rendering judgment for the plaintiff. But the,
delay was proved and as the plea was not admitted there was
nothing to show that the message went outside the State.

ATCHISON, TOPEKA & SANTA FE R(. v SOWERS. 55.
213 U. S

Syllabus.

Moreover the judgment was upon both counts. It is impossible
to go further, and to pass upon the delicate question of constitutional law that was argued here.
Writ of error dismissed.

ATCHISON, TOPEKA AND SANTA FE RAILWAY
COMPANY v. SOWERS.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS

FOR THE FOURTH

SUPREME JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.

No. 64.

Argued January 8, 1909.-Decided March 1, 1909.

Where the opinion of the state court shows that it considered and denied the validity of a statute of anotherState, and its binding force
to control the right of action 'asserted, a 'Federal right specially set
up is denied, and this court has jurisdiction to review the judgment
under § 709, Rev. Stat.
Congress has only reserved a revisory power over territorial legislation,
and a statute duly enacted, and within the legislative power of the
Territory, remains in full force until Congress annuls it by exerting
such power. Miner's Bank v. Iowa, 12 Howard, 1, 8.
Under the provisions of the Constitution which declare the -supremacy
of the National Government, Congress has power to enact, as it has
done by §§ 905, 906, Rev. Stat., that the same faith and credit be
given in the courts of the States and Territories to public acts, records,
and judicial proceedings of the Territories as are given to those of the
States under Art. IV, § 1, of the Constitution. Embry v. Palmer, 107
U. S. 3.
The passage of a legislative act of a Territory is the exercise of authority
under the United States. McLean v. RailroadCo., 203 U. S. 38, 47.
Where Congress confers on a Territory legislative power extending to
all rightful subjects of legislation the Territory has authority to legislate concerning personal injuries and rights of action relating thereto;
and so held in regard to the legislative power of New Mexico under
act of Sept. 9, 1850, c. 49, 9 Stat. 446.
Actions for personal injuries are transitory and maintainable wherevet
a court may be found that has jurisdiction of the parties and the sub-

