CASES ADJUDGED
IN TflE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.

ATCHISON, TOPEKA, AND SANTA FE RAILWAY COMPANY v. CALHOUN.
ERROR TO AND APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE
TERRITORY OF OKLAHOMA.

No. 71.

Argued January 12, 13, 1909.-Decided February 23, 1909.

Although defendant may have been originally in fault, an entirely independent and unrelated cause subsequently intervening, and of itself
sufficient to have caused the mischief, may properly be regarded as
the proximate cause of plaintiff's injuries. Insurance Co. v. Tweed,
7 Wall. 44.
An unsuccessful attempt to replace a child on a railroad car held, in
this case, to be the proximate cause of injury to the child notwithstanding such attempt was made as the result of the child's mother
having been prevented from getting off the car by the negligencb of
the railway employ~s.
Failure to foresee and provide against extraordinary and unreasonable
risks taken by other persons cannot be. regarded as negligence, and
so held that a railroad company was not liable for negligence to
one who, in a reckless effort to run after and board a rapidly moving
train, stumbled on a truck which had been left by an employ6 at a
place where ordinarily no passengers got on or off the cars.
18 Oklahoma, 75, reversed.
THE facts are stated in the opinion.

VOL. ccxII-1

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

213 U. S.

Mr. Robert Dunlap, with whom Mr. Henry E. Asp, Mr.
Charles H. Woods and Mr. George M. Green were on the brief,
for plaintiff in error:
For the plaintiff to recover, the negligence of the railway
company must have been the direct and proximate cause of
the injury. A proximate cause in the law of negligence is such
a ci ase as operates to produce particular consequences without
the intervention of an independent, unforeseen cause, without
which the injury would not have occurred.
If subsequent to the original wrongful or negligent act, a
new cause has intervened of itself sufficient to stand as the
cause of the misfortune, the former must be considered as too
remote. 1 Thompson on Negligence, ยง 55; Galveston &c. Ry.
Co. v. Chambers, 11 S. W. Rep. 279; Glassey v. Worcester Consolidated Street Ry. Co., 70 N. E. Rep. 199; Herr et ux. v. City
of Lebanon, 24 Atl. Rep. 207; Shaeffer v. Township of Jackson,
24 Atl. Rep. 629; Texas & P. Ry. Co. v. Beckwith, 32 S. W.
Rep. 347; Cleghorn v. Thompson, 64 Pac. Rep. 605; Mo. Pac.
Ry. Co. v. Columbia, 69 Pac. Rep. 338; Trassi v. McDonald,
55 Pac. Rep. 139; Lewis v. Flint & P. M. Ry. Co., 19 N. W.
Rep. 744; Claypool v. Wigmore, 71 N. E. Rep. 509; B. & 0.
R. R. Co. v. Trainor,33 Maryland, 542; Hoag & Alger v. L. S.
& M. S. R. Co., 85 Pa. St. 293; Cuff v. N. & N. Y; R. Co., 35
N. J. L. 18; N. Y., C. & St. L. Ry. Co. v. Perriguey,138 Indiana,
414; Alexander v. Newcastle, 115 Indiana, 51; McGahan v. IndianapolisNatural Gas Co., 37 N. E. Rep. 601.
Mr. Selwyn Douglas and. Mr. Henry H. Howard, for defendant in error, submitted:
A, railroad company must give a passenger a reasonable time
to alight at the end of his journey. Railroad Co. v. Mullen, 75
N. E. Rep. 474; S. C., 217 Illinois, 203. It is pleaded, established by the evidence and found by thejury that the plaintiff
in error was negligent in this respect.
It is the duty of a railroad company to furnish passengers a
safe place to alight. Harrisv. Railway Co., 70 N. E. Rep. 407.

ATCHISON &c. RAILWAY CO. v. CALHOUN.
-213 U. S.'

Opinion of the Court.

This duty is one of law, and does not necessarily depend
upon the rules of the company, but upon the circumstances,
and the character and extent of the business done at the place.
Railway Co. v. Hyde, 101 Fed. Rep. 401; .Railway Co. v. Marshall, 81 Pac. Rep. 169.
The injury occurred in a city of the first class under the laws
of Oklahoma; plaintiff in error recognized' the necessity for
lighting the premises, and had lights there for the purpose,
which were not on this occasion burning. The dark and dangerous character of the premises is pleaded, established by the
evidence and found by the jury.
The relati.on of carrier and passenger does not terminate
when he alights upoh the platform, but continues until he has
had a reasonable time, under the circumstances of the case, to
leave the station. Railway Co. v. Wood, 104 Fed. Rep. 663.
Defendant in error did not have a reasonable time within
which to. leave the premises. The peril of his position would
have been increased had he attempted to do so, and an effort
on his part could not have been an intelligent one. He was,
consequently, as much a passenger as before he left the car,
and the same duty was due him. That a child and parent will
become separated in the confusion of travel, or through the negligence of the servants of the carrier, is one of the most natural
and probable incidents of the business, and not only ought to
be but is at all times foreseen. And that when they are separated, particularly under dangerous circumstances, or such as
will distress the parent, the first humane person discovering the
fact will undertake to bring them together again, is equally
natural, probable and easily foreseen.
'Cases cited by plaintiff in error can be distinguished from the
case at bar.
MR.

JUSTICE

MooDy delivered the opinion of the court.

The defendant in error, hereafter called the plaintiff, brought
an action in a District Court of the Territory of Oklahoma

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

against the plaintiff in error, hereafter called the defendant, to
recover damages suffered by him on account of an injury alleged
to have resulted from the negligence of the defendant. He had
judgment, which was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the
Territory, and the case is now here upon a writ of error directed
to that court. The trial was by a jury, and as one question of
law before us is whether a verdict for the plaintiff was warranted, the evidence is reported in full. In returning a general
verdict for the plaintiff the jury also made special findings in
response to 57 questions submitted to it in accordance with the
practice permitted in the Territory. The only question of law
which t is deemed necessary to determine is, whether all the
evidence, with the inferences which might properly be drawn
from it, sustained the verdict for the plaintiff, upon the issue
submitted to the jury. Instead of setting forth fully the material parts of the evidence it seems better, with the aid of the
special findings, to state the facts which it tended to prove.
It hardly need be said that wherever there is a fair doubt, that
aspect of the evidtence most favorable to the plaintiff has been
accepted.
Mrs. Calhoun and her son, the plaintiff, a boy a little less than
three years of age, were passengers upon a southbound train of
the defendant railroad. Their destination was Edmond in the
Territory of Oklahoma. The train, somewhat late, arrived at
Edmond about 11.30 o'clock in the evening. Mrs. Calhoun had
never traveled ove the route before, the station was not called
out by any of the trainmen, nor was she told by any of them
that it was Edmond. In answer to a question she was informed by other passengers that the train had arrived at Edmond, and she hastened to alight, leading the boy with her.
When she reached the platform of the car the train had started
up again, after, as the jury found, a stop of one minute, and she
handed the boy to Mr. Robertson, another passenger on the
train, who had left it momentarily, intending to return and
resume his journey. Mr. Robertson was then standing upon
the station platform. He took the child, handed him to his

ATCHISON &c. RAILWAY CO. v. CALHOUN.
213 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

son, whom he had met at the station, returned to the steps of
the car, and told Mrs. Calhoun not to jump off, as the car was
running too rapidly. The station platform was dimly lighted,
and no employd of the defendant rendered Mrs. Calhoun or hei
boy any assistance in leaving the train, nor gave them any
warning.
The plaintiff was landed without injury on the station platform and put in the charge of Mr. Robertson's son by his father,
who said: "Keep the child and' the train will stop and let the
lady off." Just then a young man or boy by the name of Carl
Jones, supposed by Mr. Robertson's son to be a railroad official,
though he was not, took up the child in his arms, ran along by
the car, which was moving all the time with increasing rapidity,
and attempted, without success, to return the child to its
mother, who was standing on the platform of the car. Jones
ran 75 to 100 feet to the end of the wooden station platform
and then stumbled over a baggage truck, which had been used
in unloading the baggage from the train, and had been left at
the very end of the platform and partly on it, within a few feet
of the rails. When Jones stumbled he lost his hold of the child,
who fell under the car and was injured. The train consisted of
the engine, followed by a mail car, baggage car, express car,
smoking car, day coach, in which the plaintiff had been travelling, chair car, and a sleeper, in the order named. The baggage
car, therefore, was some distance ahead of any passenger car,
and the truck was used 'at the baggage car and left at or near
the point where it had been used. Mrs. Calhoun started to
leave the car at its south end, nearest the baggage car, and
there was, therefore, between that point and the north end of
the baggage car the length of the express and smoking cars.
Jones was not called as a witness by either party. None of the
trainmen knew that Jones was attempting to put the plaintiff
back on the train until after the injur.
The jury was instructed by the presiding judge that, as the
plaintiff had been safely taken from the train and committed
to the care of a young man on the station platform, there could

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U.S.

only be a recovery by reason of what happened after that time.'
But the jury was instructed that the plaintiff might recover if
it found that "the company was guilty of negligence in leaving
the truck in a dangerous position and in not having the.depot
platform properly lighted, and that such condition directly and
approximately contributed to the injury." There was another
ground of recovery submitted to the jury, but it was negatived
by the findings and need not be considered further
It is clear enough, upon this statement of facts, that the railroad did not exercise proper care to afford the plaintiff and his
mother a reasonable opportunity to leave the car with safety.
The train was late. The attention of the trainmen was fixed
upon a quick starting and diverted from the care of the passengers, and the stop at the station was very brief. Taking these
circumstances into account with the failure to inform Mrs. Calhoun that she had arrived at her place of destination, there is
no difficulty in concluding that the defendant was negligent.
,If Mrs. Calhoun and her son as they were about to step upon
the station platform had been injured by the premature starting of the car, the defendant unquestionably would have been
liable. But the injury did not occur in that way. Mrs. Calhoun
handed the child to Mr. Robertson to take off the train, and she
herself testified that "the child was safely off the train; I saw
it in the arms of the gentleman."
The defendant contends that the jury was permitted to'find
for the plaintiff on account of the negligence which occurred
prior to the time he was landed without injury, Inamely, the
failure to announce the station, to assist the passengers, to light
the platform adequately at the point of leaving the train, and
the delay insufficient to allow passengers to leave the train with
safety. The failure in the performance of the clear duty to afford the passengers a safe place and a reasonable time in which
to alight, was not, the defendant insistsf the proximate cause
of the subsequent injury, which was, on the contrary, caused
by the foolhardy conduct of Jones in attempting to put back
the plaintiff on the train.

ATCHISON &c. RAILWAY CO. v. CALHOUN.
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Few questions have more frequently come before the courts
than that whether a particular mischief was the result of a particular default. It would not be useful to examine the numerous
decisions in which this question has received consideration, for
no case exactly resembles another, and slight differences of fact
may be of great importance. ' The rules of law are reasonably
well settled, however difficult they may be of application to the
varied affairs of life. In this case undoubtedly the plaintiff's injury was traceable to the original negligence, in the sense that it
would not have occurred if the plaintiff had not been separated
from his mother. Nevertheless, that negligence may not be the
cause of the injury, in the meaning which the law attributes to
the word "cause " when used in this connection. The law, in its
practical administration, in cases of this kind regards only proximate or immediate and not remote causes, and in ascertaining
which is proximate and which remote refuses to indulge in
metaphysical niceties. Where, in the sequence of events between
the original default and the final mischief an entirely independent and unrelated cause intervenes, and is of itself sufficient to
stand as the cause of the mischief, the second cause is ordinarily
regarded as the proximate cause and the other as the remote
cause. Insurance'Co.v. Tweed, 7 Wall. 44,.52. This is emphatically true when the intervening cause is the act of some person entirely unrelated to the original actor. Nevertheless, a
careless person is liable for all the natural and probable consequences of his misconduct. If the misconduct is of a character
which, according to the usual experience of mankind, is calculated to invite or induce the intervention of some subsequent
cause, the intervening cause will not excuse him, and the subsequent mischief will be held to be the result of the original
misconduct. This is upon the ground that one is held responsible for all the consequences of his act which are natural and
probable, and ought to have been foreseen by a reasonably
prudent man. Thus it has been held that if one unlawfully
leaves upon a public street a truck loaded with iron which he
ought to have foreseen would very likely be disturbed by heed-

8

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

less children, he is responsible for an injury which occurs as the
result of such disturbance. Lane v. Atlantic Works, 111 Massachusetts, 136, and see Lynch v. Nurdin, 1 Q. B. 29; Railroad
Company v. Stout, 17 Wall. 657; Union Pacific Railway Co. v.
McDonald, 152 U. S. 262. Without pursuing the subject
further, it may be said that among the many cases in which the
subject of proximate cause has been discussed are the following: Milwaukee &c. Railway Co. v. Kellogg, 94 U. S. 469,.475;
Scheffer v. Railroad Company, 105 U. S. 249; Cole v. German'
Savings & Loan Soc., 124 Fed. Rep. 113; Stone v. Boston & Albany Railroad, 171 Massachusetts, 536.
It is not necessary for us to consider whether the original
neglect of the defendant could properly have been found by
the jury to have been thWe cause of the plaintiff's injury, and we
express no opinion upon that question. The defendant's contention that the jury was permitted to find a verdict on that
ground cannot be sustained. The charge to the jury makes
this clear. The presiding judge said:
"It is admitted that the plaintiff was safely taken from the
train in question and committed to the care of a young man on
the depot platform, therefore, even though you find that the
station at Edmond was not called that fact can only be considered by you for the purpose of explaining the respective positions of mother and child at that time, and if the plaintiff recover it must be by reason of events and conditions subsequent
to the time he was taken from the train."
The defendant, it is true, claims that it suffered harm, because the conflicting evidence with regard to the original negligence was submitted to the jury and tended to divert their
minds from the real issue. But we think the judge did about
as well as he could to make the issue plain to the jury, in view
of the fact that he was tied down to written instructions, and
thereby prevented from giving the jury the aid that is demanded from the bench for the most successful working of the
jury system.
Leiving entirely out of view, then, the originhl carelessness of

ATCHISON &c. RAILWAY CO. v. CALHOUN.
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the defendant, we come to the real issue, which was submitted
to the jury, upon which alone its verdict can stand. Was the
company guilty of negligence in leaving the truck in a dangerous position and not having the depot platform properly lighted,
and did that condition directly and proximately cause the in-

jury?
* It cannot be doubted that the conduct of Jones was careless
in the extreme, though doubtless the motives which impelled
him were good. But it is urged that Jones' negligence concurred with the negligence of the defendant in leaving the
truck where it did, and that therefore both are responsible for
the consequences. There is no doubt that the act of Jones and
the-act of the defendant with respect to the truck concurred in
causing the injury, and we assume that if the defendant failed
in its duty by leaving the truck at the end of the wooden platform the verdict can be sustained. Washington & Georgetown
Railroad v. Hickey,. 166 U. S. 521. It becomes necessary, therefore, to inquire whether the defendant was negligent in leaving
the truck there. But even where the highest degree of care is
demanded, still the one fromwhom it is due is bound to guard
only against those occurrences which can reasonably be anticipated by the utmost foresight. It has been well said that "if
men went about to guard themselves against every risk to
themselves or others which might by ingenious conjecture be
conceived as possible, human affairs could not be carried on at
all. The reasonable man, then, to whose ideal behavior we are
to look as the standard of duty, will neither neglect what he
can forecast as probable, nor waste his anxiety on events that
are barely possible. He will order his precaution by the measure;of what appears likely in the known course of things." Pollock on Torts, 8th ed., 41.
In judging of the defendant's conduct, attention must be
paid to the place where the truck was left. If it had been left
where the passengers were at all likely to get off or on the train,
and a pssenger stumbled over it to his hurt, there could be no
doubt of the liability of the railroad. On the other hand, if it

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Syllabus.

213 U. S.

had been left a mile from the station, where by no reasonable
hypothesis passengers would attempt to get off or on the train,
there could be no doubt that the railroad wQuld not be responsible in such a case. There was a wooden platform by the track
at the station 100 feet more or less in length. The truck was
left at the very end of this platform, with the greater part off
it. The train was at rest, so that no part of it from which passengers might be expected to get off or on was near the truck.
It was, of course, dark at the point where the truck was, but
no one could foresee that passengers intending to leave or enter
the train would be at that point. No amount of human foresight which could reasonably be exacted as a duty could anticipate that a passenger, after the train had started, would run
a distance of from 75 to 100 feet with the purpose of boarding a
train moving with increasing rapidity, much less that a person
would take a helpless infant and while thus running attempt to
place it on the train. We are of the opinion that the railroad
was not bound to foresee and guard against such extraordinary
conduct, and that its failure to do so was not negligence. For
these reasons the judgment must be
Reversed.

DAVIDSON BROS. MARBLE COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES ON THE RELATION OF GIBSON.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA..
No. 78.

Argued January 15, 1909.-Decided February 23, 1909.

U. S. FidelityCo. v. Struthers Wells Co., 209 U. S. 306, followed to effect
that the act of February 24, 1905, c. 778, 33 Stat. 811, amending the
act of August 13, 1894, c. 280, 28 Stat. 278, is prospective and does
not control actions based on rights of material-men already accrued,
but that such actions are controlled by the act of. 1894.
As the act of August 13, 1894, c. 280, 28 Stat. 278, does not specify in
which Federal court the action of a material-man claiming rights

