OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Complainant.

213 U. S.

STATE OF MISSOURI v. STATE OF KANSAS.
IN EQUITY.

No. 6, Original.

Arguea February 23, 1909.-Decided March 22, 1909.

The boundary line between. Missouri and Kansas is and remains, not-withstanding its shifting position by erosion, the middle of the Missouri
River from a point opposite the middle of the mouth of the Kansas or
Kaw River.
The act of June 7, 1836, c. 86, 5 Stat. 34, altering the western boundary
of Missouri, is to be construed in the light of extrinsic facts; and, as so
construed, its object was not to add territory to the State but to substitute the Missouri River as a practical boundary, so far as possible,
instead of an ideal line along a meridian.
The result of this decision is that an island in the Missouri River west of
the centre of its main channel, as that channel now exists, belongs to
Kansas, notwithstanding such island is east of the original boundary
line of Missouri.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Elliott W. Major, Attorney General of the State of
Missouri, and Mr. Hunter M.

Meriwether, with whom Mr.

Henry M. Beardsley was on the brief, for complainant:
There is no dispute 'as to the location of the western boundary
of Missouri for the two and one-half or three miles north of

the mouth of the Kansas River, prior to 1837.
of Missouri of 1820.

See constitution

The west line of the State was therein

laid down as a meridian line passing through the mouth of the
Kansas River.
The maps in evjience show that in 1836-37 the Missouri
River had.moved tdlthe east so far that the first two and onehalf miles of the old west boundary line surveyed by Sullivan

were in the-river;
On March 28, 1837,' the land lying between the old state
boundary and the Misiduri River was added to the State, and

MISSOURI v. KANSAS.
213 U. S.

Argument for Complainant.

no change was made in the boundary line except where land
lay between the old state-line and the river. Act of June' 7,
1836, c. 86, 5 Stat. 34. It is clear from this act that the boindary of the State was not changed except where there were
lands lying between the old boundary and the Missouri River,
in which case the boundary was extended to the river. Since,
therefore, the old boundary line was already in the stream for
the first two and one-half .miles north of the mouth of the
Kansas River, no lands were added there and no change of
boundary there took place.
There is no evidence to support the contention that Missouri
and Kansas. have by a long course of conduct regarded the
shifting channel of the Missouri River over these two and onehalf miles as the border line between the States rather than
the true north and south line. It requires the consent of the
States and Congress to change a state boundary; so no change
*could be made without the concurrent action of all three sovereignties. But there is no evidence that the States have
agreed upon any other than the true boundary. Kansas in
framing her constitution made her east line in terms "the
west line of the State of Missouri." Much stress was by Kansas at the hearing put upon the language of the several statutes
of the State of Missouri giving the boundaries of the counties
of Platte and Clay and Jackson in Missouri and of the State
of Kansas giving boundaries of the counties of Wyandotte
and Johnson in that State. The legislative acts can in no
wise be regarded as attempts to define the boundaries of the
State. Such boundaries could not be so defined. They, on
the other hand, give the boundaries of these counties with
reference to the land as it at the time lay. The state line was
in the Missouri River. There was no desire to take account,
in fixing county boundaries, of land lying then within the river.
The determination of the_ true line as the western boundary
of Missouri, at the point in question, depends entirely upon
the construction of the terms of the act of June 7, 1836, extending western boundary to the Missouri River. Missouri, bv an

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Defendant.

213 U. S.

amendment to its constitution, adopted the line thus established but it did not cede or waive its rights of soil and jurisdiction over any portion of its original territory. It is established by the proof that at the point in dispute the western
boundary of the State was already in the Missouri River.
The rule is that where a power possesses a river and cedes
,the territory on the other side of it, making the river the
boundary, that power retains the river, unless there is an express stipulation for the relinquishment of the rights of soil
And jurisdiction over the bed of such river. Howard v. Ingersoll, 13 Howard, 381.
If there was anything doubtful or indefinite in the language
of the act of June 7, 1836, or in the line as established by it,
the subsequent acts of the parties~affected thereby as well as
local conditions determine a proper' construction of what was
meant by the act, but the language, itself, is plain and no other
assistance is needed. Alabama v. Georgia, 24 How. 505.
Mr. F. ,S. Jackson, Attorney General of the State of Kansas,
Mr. John S. Dawson and Mr. C. C. Coleman, for defendant,
submitted:
The act of 1836 extending the jurisdiction .of the State. of
Missouri over the lands between said State and the Missouri
River, and extending the western boundary of said State to
the Missouri River, was an authoritative establishment of the
boundary 'lihe of that State to the meridian line of the channel
of the Missouri River from the mouth of the Kansas River
north to the northern boundary of the State. See Memorial,
General Assembly of Missouri, approved January 15, 1831;
St. Joseph R. R. Co. v. Devereux, 41 Fed. Rep. 14.
The State of Missouri, having accepted such determination
of its bouadary and all of the officials and people of the State
having acted 'in accordance therewith since 1836 until the
present time, and her sister States of Kansas and Nebraska
having also acted on such understanding, such boundary line
of the State of Missouri became fixed on the thread of the

MISSOURI v. KANSAS.
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Missouri River channel at all points above *the mouth of the
Kansas River, and such boundary cannot now be questioned
by the State of Missouri.
Where a river is declared to be the boundary between States,
if such river suddenly change its course or desert the original
channel as the result at a great flood or what is commonly
known as an avulsion, the boundary between such States remains in the middle of the deserted river bed, but if the river
change imperceptibly, from natural causes, the river as it
runs continues to be the boundary between the two States.
Cooley v. Golden, 52 Mo. App. Rep. 229; Iowa v. Nebraska, 143
U. S.359.
Where a river is the boundary-line between two States, the
jurisdiction of said States is concurrent over the channel of
the river to the meridian line of said channel, but where an
island arises and exists on the bed of said river and the main
channel of the river flows to one side only of the island, such
island is within the jurisdiction of the State nearest to which
it is located. McBaine v. Johnson, 155 Missouri, 203; East
Omaha Land Co. v. Hanson, 117 Iowa, 97; S. C., 90 N. W. Rep.
706; De Long v. Olsan, 63 Nebraska, 331; S. C., 88 N. W. Rep.
514.
MR. JUsTICE HOLmES delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a bill to establish the western boundary of the State
of Missouri for a short dihtance above Kansas City in that
State. The object of Missouri is to maintain title to an island
of about four hundred acres in the Missouri River, now lying
close to Kansas City, Missouri, and Kansas City, Kansas.
The State of Kansas claims the same island by answer and
what it terms a crossbill. A few words will explain the issue
between the parties. When Missouri was admitted to the
Union its western boundary at this point was a meridian running due north. There was land between a part of this line
and the Missouri. River. By treaty with theIndians and act
VOL. ccxiII-6

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

of Congress on the petition of Missouri, that State was granted
jurisdiction over such land and its boundary was extended to
the Missouri River. Since that time the river has been moving
eastward by gradual erosion, and at the place in controversy
has passed to the east of the original line. The land in question
lies to the east of the line and the claim of Missouri is that,
whatever the change in the river, its jurisdiction remains to
that line.
Missouri fortifies its blaim by an allegation that the line at
the place in controversy never was changed. According to
the bill, the line as surveyed began at a point on the left bank
of the Missouri River, opposite the mouth of the Kansas or
Kaw,.for two miles and a half "practically conformed with
the left bank of the Missouri," and by the shifting of the stream
was in the river when the act of Congress was passed, so that
there was no land to be added there, and the original boundary
remained. Kansas denies that the original line conformed to
the left bank of the river, and says that even if Missouri is
right with regard to the facts, the result of the change was to
make the Missouri River the boundary between the States
from the north to the point where the Missouri and the Kansas
meet.
To decide the case it is necessary to construe the laws by
which the boundary of Missouri was changed. The first step
to that end was a memorial of the General Assembly of Missouri
to Congress, dated January 15, 1831. The sum of it is this.
Many inconveniences have arisen from the improvident manner in which parts of the boundaries have been designated.
When the state government was formed the whole country
on the west and north was a wilderness and its geography unwritten. The precise position of that part of the line passing
through the middle of the mouth of the Kansas River, which
lies north of the Missouri, is unknown, but it is believed to run
almost parallel with the course of the stream, so as to leave a
narrow strip of land varying in breadth from fifteen to thirty
miles. Great calamities are to be feared from the Indians on

MISSOURI v. KANSAS.
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the frontier. Therefore it is necessary to interpose, "whenever
it is possible, some visible boundary and natural barrier between the Indians and-the whites." The Missouri River will
afford this barrier "by extending the north boundary of this
State in a straight line westward, until it strikes the Missouri,
so as to include within this State the small district of country
between that line and the river." There is more, but the'main
point of the nemorial is to secure a natural barrier between
Indians and whites, and, in addition, easier access to "the
only great road to market." A few square miles, more or less,
Of savage territory were of no account, but the object was to
get the river for a bound.
There was a report to the Senate on April 8, 1834, which
adopted the foregoing reasons, and recommended making the
Missouri River "the western boundary to the mouth of the
Kansas River." Senate Doc. No. 263, 23d Cong. tst Sess.
On February 12, 1836, there was a report to the House of Representatives on the same subject. It referred to a bill that had
been reported, authorizing the President to run the boundary
line, and mentioned that the bill had been amended by directing the line to be run from the mouth of the Kansas River up
the Missouri River, etc. It stated that the Indian title to the
lands in question might be extinguished and ought to be, because those lands ought to form part of the State of Missouri.
As a reason it mentioned that when Missouri was admitted into
the Union it was expected that other States would be formed on
the west, in which case the use of the Missouri would have been
equally convenient, whether it was the border line or not;
since then, however, the Indians had been located on the frontier, thus hampering access to the river. As a final argument
it added that to make the river the boundary would be for the
advantage of both the Indians and the whites. rn conclusion,
"to carry into effect the ultimate object of the resolution," it
reported "A Bill to extend the western boundary of the State
of Missouri to the Missouri River." H. R. No. 379, 24th Cong.
1st Sess, This bill was passed, and became the act of Congress

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

on which this controversy turns. It provides that "when the
Indian title to all the lands lying between the State of Missouri
and the Missouri River shall be extinguished, the jurisdiction
over said lands shall be hereby ceded to the State of Missouri,
and the western boundary of said State shall be then extended
to the Missouri River." These are the only material words.
Act of June 7, 1836, c. 86, 5 Stat. 34.
In anticipation of the action of Congress the constitution of
Missouri was amnded as follows: "That the boundary of the
State be so altered and extended as to include all that tract of
land lying on the north side of the Missouri River, and west of
the present boundary of this State, so that the same shall be
bounded on the south by the middle of the main.channel of the
Missouri RiveY, and on the north by the present northern boundary line of the State, -as established by the Constitution, when
the same is continued in a right line to the west, or to inlude so much of said tract of land as Congress may assent."
Amendment ratified at the Session of 1834-5, Article II, § 4.
Mo: Rev. Sts. 1856, p. 91. Then, on December 16, 1836, the
State assented to the act of Congress by "An Act to express
the assent of the State of Missouri to the extension of the western boundary line of the State." Laws 1st Sess. 9th GenlI
Assembly, p. 28; and, on January 17, 1837, a copy was transmitted to Congress.by the President. Meantime, on September 17, 1836, a treaty was made with the Indians, in which
they expressed their belief in the advantage of a natural boundary between them and the whites and released their claims.
Indian Affairs. Laws and Treaties. Compiled by Kappler,
1904, p. 468. On March 28, 1837, the President, by proclamation, declared that the Indian title to lands had been extinguished, in pursuance of the condition in the act of Congress,
and the act went into full effeto. 5 Stats. 802. Appendix No. 1.
Whatever might be the interpretation of the act taken by
itself and applied between two long settled communities, we
thintk that the circumstances and the history of tbe steps that
led .to it show that the object throughout was that exnressed

MISSOURI v. KANSAS.
213 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

by the memorial; as we have said, not to gain some square
miles of wilderness, but to substitute the Missouri River for an
ideal line as the western boundary of the State, so far as possible, that is from the northern boundary to the mouth of the
Kaw. That this was understood by Missouri to be the effect
of the act is shown by a succession of statutes declaring the
boundaries of the river counties in this part. They all adopted
the middle of the main channel of the river; beginning with
the act that organized the county of Platte, approved December 31, 1838, Mo. Laws, 1838, pp. 23-25, and going on through
the Revised Statutes of 1855, p. 459, § 12 (Clay), p. 466, § 33
(Platte), p. 478, § 65 (Jackson), etc., to 2 Revised Statutes,
1879, ch. 94, §§ 5177, 5198 & 5237. The construction iscontemporaneous and long continued, and we regard it as clear.
It is confirmed by the cases of Cooley v. Golden, 52 Mo. App.
229, and St. Joseph & G. I. R. Co. v. Devereux, 41 Fed. Rep. 14,
both of which cases notice that the act extended the boundary
to the river, and not merely to the bank.
It follows upon our interpretation that it is unnecessary to
consider the evidence as to precisely where the line as surveyed
ran from opposite the mouth of the Kansas or Kaw. If the
understanding both of the United States and the State had not
been a wholesale adoption of the river as a boundary, without
any niceties, still, as the cession "to the river" extended to the
center of the stream, it might be argued that even on Missouri's
evidence there probably was a strip ceded at the place in dispute. But from the view that we take such refinements are out
of place. The act has to be read with reference to extrinsic
facts because it fixes no limits except by implication. We are
of opinion that the limit implied is a point in the middle of the
Missouri opposite the middle of the mouth of the Kaw.
Decree for the defendant.

