TURNER v. AMERICAN SECURITY & TRUST CO. 257
213 U. S.

Syllabus.

to settle the controversy between the parties, and that it was
only when they failed to settle that service of summons was
made upon Mason, as the agent of the company. There is
testimony tending to show that both parties expected an adjustment of the claim to be made at this meeting, which was
held for that purpose. There is testimony from which it might
be inferred that there was a bona fide offer to permit an examination at that time of the remains of the deceased. We do not
feel authorized to find as against the testimony set forth in the
'bill of exceptions, and the finding of the court below, that the
purpose in writing the letter of February 20, and procuring
authority to be conferred upon Dr. Mason to settle the case,
and to come into the State of Missouri for that purpose, was
a mere fraudulent scheme to obtain service upon the insurance
company.
As the sole question before us pertains to the sufficiency
of the service under the facts disclosed, we reach the conclusion
that the judgment of the Circuit Court must be affirmed.

Affirmed.

TURNER v. AMERICAN SECURITY AND TRUST
COMPANY
APPEAL FROM AND IN ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE
DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 101.

Argued March 9, 10, 1909.-Decided April 5, 1909.

Where the issue is whether a person is of sound or unsound mind, a lay
witness, who has had an adequate opportunity to observe the speech
and conduct of that person, may, in addition to relating, the significant instances of speech and conduct, testify to the opinion formed

at the time of observation as to the mental capacity of such person.

While a general rule cannot be framed for all cases, and in clear cases
of abuse the appellate court should reverse, the determination of
whether a witness is qualified to state his opinion as to the mental
VOL. CCXIII-17

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

condition of a testator is for the trial judge who has all the evidence
and the witness before him, and in this case the trial judge does not
seem to have abused his discretion as to the admission of testimony.
Evidence as to an alleged delusion of testator thirty years before execution of the will held to be properly excluded both because of remoteness and of the tendency to raise a collateral issue as to whether
the statements connected therewith were or were not actually false.

Where the wife as caveator attacks testator's soundness of mind because
he referred to himself at times as a widower and at times as divorced,
an agreement of separation and a deed referring to himself as widower
admitted solely to explain why testator so referred to himself held
competent for that purpose, but evidence by the wife as to her reasons
for signing the agreement and other instruments, in which she joined
with her husband as his wife, were properly excluded.
The admission of incompetent evidence is not re'versible error if subsequently it is distinctly withdrawn from the jury, and so held in this
case where a letter was erroneously admitted but the presiding judge,
at request of the party objecting to its admission, instructed the jury
that nothing in such letter was to be taken as evidence of truth of
the statements therein or even to be used for purposes of crossexamination.
29 App. D. C. 460, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the validity of the will of henry E.
Woodbury, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. J. J. Darlington and Mr. Charles F:Carusifor appellant

and plaintiff in error.
Mr. William F. Mattinglg and Mr. Stanton C. Peelle for appellees and defendants in error.

MR. JUSTICE MOODY delivered the opinion of the court.

In this case we are asked to review, on appeal and writ of
error, a judgment of the Court of Appeals of the District of
Columbia, affirming a decree of the Supreme Court of the District sitting as a Probate Court, which admitted to probate certain paper writings purporting to be the will and codicils thereto

TURNER v. AMERICAN SECURITY & TRUST CO. 259
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of Henry E. Woodbury. The decree was based upon the findings of a jury upon two issues submitted to it, namely:
"(1.) At the time of the execution of the said several paper
writings propounded for probate as the last will and testament
of Henry E. Woodbury, deceased, was the said Henry E. Woodbury of sound and disposing mind and capable of making a valid
deed or contract?
" (2.) Was execution of said.paper writings procured by the
fraud or undue influence of Sallie Woodbury, Mena Stevens, or
either of them, or any other person or persons?"
The jury found that the testator was of sound mind and that
he was not unduly influenced. The questions brought here arose
upon the trial of those issues and are stated in the bill of exceptions duly allowed. There are nineteen assignments of error,
relating to the admission or exclusion of evidence, and to the
instructions or refusal of instructions to the jury. There was
conflicting evidence upon the issues. As no question of the
sufficiency of the evidence of either party is properly here, a
brief preliminary statement of facts is sufficient, and any other
facts which may be needed to explain the questions of law will
be stated in connection with the disposition of those questions.
According to the practice in the District in a contest of this
kind, those propounding the instrument for probate are called
ca-eatees and those .opposing its probate caveators.
The testator, Henry E. Woodbury, died January 15, 1905,
seventy-nine years of age. The will was executed April 11, 1902,
and five codicils were executed at different times from January
5, 1903, to December 20, 1904. With slight exceptions, the will
and codicils devise and bequeath the real and personal property
to charities. The testator had been a physician until 1881,
when an injury compelled him to cease the practice of his profession. He was childless. He had married in 1870, and in less
than two years had parted from his wife, and thereafter they
lived separately, though without being divorced. A sister,
Sallie Woodbury, lived with him until her death, in December;
1902. After the death of the sister, Mena M. Stevens became

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

his housekeeper and nurse. A nephew, Molyneaux L. Turner,
was his heir and next of kin. His wife survived the testator,
and, with the nephew, filed a caveat against the probate of the
paper writings purporting to be a will and codicils.
1. The first eleven assignments of error relate to the admission or exclusion by the trial court of the testimony of lay witnesses as to their opinion for or against the mental capacity of
the testator. In the view we take of these assignments of error
they may be considered together, and without any statement
as to the testimony of the several witnesses.
The rule governing the admission of testimony of this char-'
acter, which has been prescribed by this court for the courts
of the United States, is easy of statement and administration.
Where the issue is whether a person is of sound or unsound
mind, a lay witness, who has had an adequate opportunity to
observe the speech and other conduct of that person may, in
addition to relating the significant instances of speech and conduct, testify to the opinion on the mental capacity formed at
the time from such observation. Insurance Co. v. Rodel, 95
U. S. 232; Connecticut Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. Lathrop, 111 U. S.

612; Queenan v. Oklahoma, 190 U. S. 548. In no other way
than this can the full knowledge of an unprofessional witness
with regard to the issue be placed before the jury, because ordinarily it is impossible for such witness to give an adequate
description of all the appearances which to him have indicated
sanity or insanity. Such testimony has been well described as
a compendious mode of ascertaining the result of the actual observations of witnesses. Ordinarily, and perhiaps necessarily,
the witness in testifying to his opportunities for observation
and his actual observation relates more or less fully the instances
of his conversation or dealings with the person whose mental
capacity is under consideration, and it is, of course, cmpetent,
either upbn direct or cross-examination, to elicit those instances
in detail.
The order of the evidence must be left to the discretion of
the trial judge, but when sufficient appears to convince the

TURNER v. AMERICAN SECURITY & TRUST CO. 261
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

trial judge that the witness has had an opportunity for adequate
observation of the person's mental capacity, and has actually
observed it, then the judge may permit him to testify to his
opinion. This was the course pursued by the trial judge in this
case. With respect to each witness, whose testimony as to opinion was admitted or excluded, the judge exercised his discretion upon the qualifying testimony.
We are asked to review that discretion and to say,that in the
case of the eleven witnesses before us it was improperly exercised. We have no hesitation in declining to do this. No general rule can well be framed which will govern all cases, and an
attempt to do that would multiply exceptions and new trials.
The responsibility for the exercise of the judicial power of determining whether a given witness has the qualifications which
will permit him, to the profit of the jury, to state his opinion
upon an issue of this kind, may best be left with the judge presiding at the trial, who has a comprehensive view of the issue
and of all of the evidence and the witness himself before his
face.
This is not to say that in a very clear case an appellate court
ought not to review the discretion of the trial judge. For instance, if it should appear that the witness had never spoken
to the testator or seen any significant act, but merely observed
him driving from day to day through the streets, and the opinion
of such a witness as to sanity had been received, it would be the
duty of the appellate court to correct the errgr. On the other
hand, if the witness for years had been in constant communication with the testator, had frequently conversed with him
and observed his conduct from day to day, the exclusion of the
opinion of the witness ought to be corrected by the appellate
court. These are instances of a plain abuse of judicial discretion.
The true rule of action for an appellate court is stated in
Wheeler v. United States, 159 U. S. 523. In that case this
court was considering the admissibility, upon the trial of an
indictment for murder, of the testimony of a boy hve and a

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

half years old at the time of the trial. The court, speaking by'
Mr. Justice Brewer, said (p. 524):
"The decision of this question rests primarily with the trial
judge, who sees the proposed witness, notices his manner, his
apparent possession or lack of intelligence, and may resort to
any examination which will tend to disclose his capacity and
intelligence as well as his understanding of the obligations of
an oath. As many of these matters cannot be photographed
into the record, the decision of the trial judge will not be disturbed on review unless from that which is preserved it is clear
that it was erroneous."
Though the question of competency in that case differed materially from the questions of competency in this case, the spirit
which underlies the statement of the court there ought to govern here.
We have examined these eleven assignments of error and
brought them to the test of the foregoing principles. We find
that no admissions of exclusions of -testimony were clearly erroneous, and accordingly all the assignments are overruled.
2. The caveators, on the issue of unsoundness of mind of the
testator in 1902, and the following years, offered inevidence
the record in a suit for divorce brought by the testator in 1872,
and more especially that part of the record wherein he alleged,
-as a ca'use for divorce, that his wife was incapable of a valid
marriage on accoimt of a physical malformation. The physicians appointed by the court reported, after an examination of
the wife, that the condition alleged did not exist. The offer of
this evidence was accompanied by the contention that it showed
a delusion on the part of the testator. The evidence was excluded and we think rightly, either upon the ground that it
was too remote in point of time or that it would lead to a collateral inquiry whether the statement was actually false, and
if so, whether it was the result of a delusion, or of malice or
falsehood.
3. The caveators had introduced evidence that the testator
had spoken of himself as a widower and as having been divorced

TURNER v. AMERICAN SECURITY & TRUST CO. 263
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

from his wife, both of which statements were untrue. Obviously, the testimony that these statements had been made by
the testator could only have been admitted as proof of mental
unsoundness. To meet this testimony, and the inference which
might be drawn from it, the judge admitted in evidence a written agreement made in 1887 by the testator with his wife. The
material parts of the agreement follow:
"Witnesseth: That, whereas the said Anna L. Woodbury
is seized and possessed of certain lands and real estate in her
own right in the city of Washington, D. C., and Cambridge,
Mass.; and whereas the said Anna L. Woodbury desires to be
able to sell, dispose of and convey the same as she could were
she a femme sole; and whereas she is unable to do so unless by
and with the consent and agreement of her said husband aforesaid, Henry E. Woodbury;
"Now, therefore, it is agreed by these presents that the said
Henry E. Woodbury will permit the said Anna L. Woodbury to
sell, dispose of and convey any and all of her real estate as at
any time she may desire to do; and in consideration of this relinquishment of all right, title, interest and claim of him, the
said Henry E. Woodbury, in and to, the property and lands of
the said Anna L. Woodbury, the said Anna L. Woodbury hereby
covenants and agrees for herself, her heirs and assigns, to relinquish all and every right, title, interest and claim that she (or
they through her) may have to any and to all of the property
personal or real that the said Henry E. Woodbury possesses
now or may hereafter acquire, tog'ether with her right of dower
in any estate the said Henry E. Woodbury may leave in case
of his demise. And she the said Anna L. Woodbury further
covenants and agrees with the said Henry E. Woodbury, that
under no circumstances will the said Anna LI.:Woodbury ask
for, demand or claim from him alimony or a support for any
time past, present or to come.
"In short this covenant and agreement is intended to restore
to each of the aforesaid parties-Anna L. Woodbury and Henry
E. Woodbury-the same right to contract, to use or to dispose

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

of their respective properties, lands and estates-personal and
real-as they possessed before they were married."
Counsel for the caveatees offered this to explain the statements of the testator, and urged its admission in connection
with the fact of separation. The caveators' counsel objected
to it, because it showed neither a divorce nor that the testator
was a widower. The judge then said: "I think it may be competent to explain the situation here, and I Will admit it." The
judge further said: "inasmuch as you have itwo contradictory
statements from him, I think this may come in in response to
that." Counsel for the caveatees, in the course of the 'discussion, said: "We have a right to shdw the relations existing between Dr. Woodbury and members of his family," but the
court did not assent to this proposition and made no response
to it.
We think it is clear that this agreement was admitted solely
for the purpose of explaining the testator's statement about his
divorce and widowerhood. If the caveators wished to limit its
use, any further than it was limited by the judge'in the ruling
admitting it, an instruction to the jury should have been asked.
We think it is competent for the purpose for which it was offered
and admitted, and that its weight was for the jury. In it the
wife relinquished all claims to her husband's property, real or
personal, and all right to dower or of alimony, or of other support, and concluded by saying: "This covenant and agreement
is intended to restore to each of the aforesaid paies--Anna
L. Woodbury and Henry E. Woodbury-the same right to.
contract, to use or to dispose of their respective properties,
lands and estates-personal and real-as they possessed before
they were married." Though the weight of this evidence might
have been slight, we think the evidence was competent.
4. The caveators, for the purpose of explaining the signature
by the wife to the agreement of 1887, then offered to prove by
her deposition that she had been advised by physicians, now
dead, to sign any paper that the testator wished her to sign,
and that it was the mania of the testator to be rid of her and

TURNER i. AMERICAN SECURITY & TRUST CO. 265
213 U.

S..

Opinion of the Court.

her .property, and that the testator had said to them that he
would die if he could not get rid of both. This testimony was
excluded, and we think rightly. The motive of the wife in signing the agreement of 1887 was entirely immaterial. She did
sign it, and it was admitted solely for the purpose of explaining
the testator's statement that he was a widower and had been
divorced.
5. The facts upon which the next assignment of error is based
are very obscure. Mena M. Stevens, the nurse, was called as a
witness by the caveatees. Upon cross-examination, she testified that in 1903 and 1904 she had received from the testator
gifts of certain stock and a deed to certain lands, whose rental
value was $21.90 per month. The deed was delivered to a person to keep for the nurse until the testator's death. This
deed was offered in evidence by the caveators. It was dated
September 12, 1904. The testator described himself in this deed
as a widower. Thereupon caveatees put in evidence, without
objection, a deed from Henry E. Woodbury and Anna L. Woodbury, his wife, to the American Security and Trust Company,
dated November 18,. 1903. Whether this deed included the
same land conveyed to Stevens we are unable to tell from the
descriptions, but we assume it did not. The purpose for which
the deed was offered does not appear. As it was admitted just
prior to the admission of the agreement of 1887, and subsequent
to the admission of the deed to Stevens, in which the testator
called himself a widower, we may fairly assume that, like the
agreement of 1887, it was offered to explain the use of the word
"widower." There is nothing in the bill of exceptions to show
that it was used for any other purpose, and we treat it as limited
to that purpose.
The caveators offered, by the deposition of the wife, to prove
the same explanation of this deed as was offered for the agreement of 1887, but the evidence was excluded. We think that
the caveators have not shown that the excluded evidence was
competent, and' we therefore overrule this assignment of error.
It should be said generally of this and the preceding assign-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.'

ment of error that there is nothing to show that the instruments
were received or used as evidence that the wife regarded the
testator as of sound mind and capable of transacting business.
There was, therefore, no occasion to offer evidence to explain
the act and destroy the effect of the admission. The whole argument for the admissibility of. the explanatory evidence is
based upon the theory that the instruments were offered to
show the wife's belief as to his mental condition-a theory
which finds no support in the bill of exceptions. If the instrument had been admitted and used for that purpose a different
question would be presented:
6. Turner was called as a witness in his own behalf. On
cross-examination he was asked if he had made certain insulting remarks to his aunt, Sallie Woodbury. He replied that he
had not. He was then shown a paper and asked if it was in his
aunt's handwriting, and replied that it was, and was a letter
addressed to William H. Turner. He was then asked, over the
objection and under the exception of the caveators, whether
the letter did not assert that the witness had made the insulting
statements. The cross-examining counsel was then permitted
to read the letter for the purpose of examining the witness upon
the statements contained in it. This was done over objection
and under exception. The letter stated that the witness had
made the insulting remarks which he had denied making. The
cross-examining counsel proceeded: "Now, do you mean that
that statement by her is untrue?" Answer: "I do not remember making any such statement; I am not in the habit of using
any such language."
It is too clear for discussion that the use permitted to be
made of this letter was erroneous, and if the matter had stopped
there we should be compelled to grant a new trial. The presiding judge, however, instructed the jury in behalf of the caveators, and, it would seem, at their request, as follows:
"While the caveator was allowed by the court to be crossexamined as to the statements contained in an undated letter,
purporting to have been written by his aunt, Sallie Woodbury,

TURNER v. AMERICAN SECURITY & TRUST CO. 267
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

addressed to William H. Turner, the jury are instructed that
neither the said letter nor the use thereof so allowed by the
court to be made upon the cross-examination of the caveator
is to be taken as evidence of the truth of any of the said statements in said letter contained or allowed to be used for the purpose of cross-examination as aforesaid."
The general rule is that the admission of incompetent evidence is not reversible error if it subsequently is distinctly withdrawn from the consideration of the jury. Pennsylvania Co.
v. Roy, 102 U. S. 451,458; Hopt v. Utah, 120 U. S. 430, 438.
There are cases which emphasize the necessity of clearly and
unmistakably withdrawing the evidence from the consideration of the jury. Washington Gas Light Co. v. Lansden, 172
U. S. 535, 554; Throckmorton v. Holt, 180 U. S. 552, 567. But
we are satisfied that this was done in this case, and that the
instruction cured the error. It directed that the'letter should
not. be taken as evidence of the truth of any of its statements
or even allowed to be used for the purpose of cross-examination.
7. The remaining assignments of error relate to two instructions given to the jury and the refusal of an instruction requested by the caveators. None of the questions raised here
touches upon any vital part of the case, and, w hile not waived,
they were not much insisted upon in argument. An examination of the charge satisfies us that it contained all that the caveators were entitled to and that it was correct, full and adequate to present the issues to the jury. We will not prolong
this opinion beyond what was said in the court below on this
subject, which we approve.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUsTicE HARLAN did not take part in the decision of this
cas.

