OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Petitioner.

213 U. S.

settled doctrine of this court with regard to cases coming from
state courts, unless a decision upon a Federal question was nec-.
essary to the judgment or in fact was made the ground of it,
the writ of error must be dismissed." Arkansas Southern Railroad Company v. German National Bank, 207 U. S. 270; California Powder Works v. Davis, 151 U. S. 389; St. L., I. M. &
S. Ry. Co. v. Taylor, 210 U. S. 281.
Writ of error dismissed.

UNITED STATES v. DICKINSON.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIRST
CIRCUIT.
No. 362. Argued January 4, 5, 1909.-Decided April 5, 1909.
The writ of certiorari cannot be granted under the act of March 3, 1891,
c. 517, 26 Stat. 826, in a criminkl case at the instance of the United
States whatever the supposed importance of the questions involved.
United States v. Sanges, 144 U. S. 310, distinguished.
The power of this court to issue the writ of certiorari under § 14 of the
Judiciary Act of 1789, now § 716, Rev. Stat., is not a grant of appellate jurisdiction to review for correction of mere error.
The act of March.2, 1907, c. 2564, 34 Stat. 1246, giving an appeal to the
Government in certain criminal cases cannot be extended beyond
its terms, or construed so as to extend the power of certiorari under
the act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, 26 Stat. 826, to bring up a criminal
case for the correction of mere error at the instance of the United
States.
Certiorari to review 159 Fed. Rep. 801, dismissed.

THE facts are stated in the opinion.
The Attorney General and Mr. Asa P. French, with whom

The Solicitor General was on the brief, for petitioner:
This court has power under the Judiciary Act of 17 .9, "to

UNITED STATES v. DICKINSON.
213 U. S.

Argument for Petitioner.

issue all writs not specifically provided for by statute, which
may be necessary for the exercise of their respective jurisdictions, and agreeable to the usages and principles of law," and
that includes the right to issue writs of certiorari in all proper
cases. In re Chetwood, 165 U. S.443, 462.
The writ of certiorari, under the Federal Constitution and
statutes, is strictly the common law writ of that name with all
its functions and attributes, so far as applicable to our system
of jurisprudence.
At common law the writ might be granted at the instance
of either the prosecutor or the defendant; it was always granted
at the request of the king, in whose name the justice of the
people was invoked. 4 Blackstone's Commentaries, 321. Certiorari lies in all judicial proceedings in which a writ of error
does not lie. Groenvelt v. Burwell, 1 Ld. Raym. 454.
By anology the enforcement of the law by the people in the
name of the king is the same as its enforcement by the people
in the name of the United States, and there is ancient authority
in support of granting this writ by this court. The part taken
in these proceedings by the United States is entirely in accord
with the usages and principles of the common law, as referred
to in the act of 1789.
The case at bar is within the appellate jurisdiction of this
court. Section 5 of the act of March 3, 1891, provides that
such a case involving the construction or application of the
Constitution of the United States may be brought here on appeal or writ of error.
Under a proper construction of the act of March 3, 1891, this
court may take away from the final determination of any Circuit Court of Appeals, at any stage, before or after decision
rendered in that court, any case involving questions of gravity
and general importance, or as to which there is conflict between
the decisions of state and Federal courts, or between those of
Federal courts in different circuits, and indeed involving any
matter of special interest to the people. Forsyth v. Hammond,
166 U. S.506, 514, 515; Fields v. United States, 205 U. S.296;

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Respondent.

213 U. S.

American ConstructionCo. v. Jacksonville &c. Ry. Co., 148 U. S.
383, 384. This court has the same right to review a criminal
case on certiorari on the application of the Government that
it has to review a civil case.

Congress has power upon the establishment of an inferior
tribunal, to reserve authority in this court to review all impor-

tant cases, criminal as well as civil, on certiorari. Taylor v.
United States, 207 U. S. 120, 127; United States v. Bitty, 208
U. S. 393, 399, 400.
While it was held in United States v. Sanges, 144 U. S. 310, 323,
that § 5 of the act of March 3, 1891, was not sufficiently specific
to give to the United States the right to sue out a writ of error
to review a judgment of a Circuit Court sustaining ademurrer
in a criminal case in which that 'court held certain Federal
statutes to be unconstitutional, the case at bar presents a different situation under a different provision of law. The Government is now merely asking that this court shall, under the jurisdiction reserved to it by § 6 of the act, order a case of which a
Circuit Court of Appeals has otherwise final jurisdiction to be
brought here from such court on certiorari, and determine it
in the same manner as if it were here on appeal or writ of error.
The jurisdiction of this court to review on certiorari cases
within the final jurisdiction of a Circuit Court of Appeals and
pending in that court extends to all cases which are of sufficient gravity and importance to make their decision by this
court imperative or desirable, including a criminal case, like
that at bar.
Mr. Henry W. Dunn, with whom Mr. Samuel L. Powers was
on the brief, for respondent:
While this court, under § 716, Rev. Stat., and independently
of the act of March 3, 1891, may issue writs of certiorari in
proper cases, when the circumstances imperatively demand
that form of interposition, to correct excesses of jurisdiction,
and in the furtherance of justice, Ex parte Chetwood, 165 U. S.
443, this is not a proper one for the exercise of that extraor-

UNITED STATES v. DICKINSON.
213.U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

dinary power. The question of jurisdiction must be decided
by construction of the provisions of the act of 1891. American
Construction Co. v. Jacksonville, T. & K. W. Ry. Co., 148 U. S.
372, 380.
While any limitation in the matter of direct appeals under §5
of the act of March 3, 1891, in respect to criminal cases must be
read into the statute wholly by implication, nevertheless the
right of review given by that section, so far as it relates to criminal cases, must be limited to review at the instance of the defendant, after a decision in favor of the Government. It could
not be fairly inferred that Congress intended to authorize a
review in a criminal case of a decision in favor of the accused.
United States v. Sanges, 144 U. S. 310. It cannot be doubted
that under the authority of that case, and on the same grounds,
the general provision of § 6 granting appellate jurisdiction to
the CircuiJ Court of Appeals, should be held subject to the same
limitation.1
The intent of Congress as expressed -in the act of 1891 nust
be judged without any reference to the recent attempts to
strengthen the arm of the Government, in certain classes of
prosecutions. Such conditions have found natural expression
in such recent legislation as the act of Congress which was before this court in Taylor v. United States, 207 U. S. 120, and
United States v. Bitty, 208 U. S. 393.
This court has no general authority to review, on -error or
appeal, the judgments of the Circuit Courts of the United States
in cases within their criminal jurisdiction; and when such jurisdiction is intended to be conferred, it should be done in clear
and explicit language. Cross v. United States, 145 U. S., 571,
574.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE FULLER delivered the opinion of the

court.
Dickinson and one Foster were jointly indicted under § 5209.
of the Revised Statutes of the United States, which is a part

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

of the National Bank Act. Foster, the principal defendant,
was cashier of the South Danvers National Bank, and was
charged with willfully misapplying the funds of the bank, and
Dickinson was charged with aiding and abetting. Both having
been convicted, Dickinson sued out a writ of error from the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the First Circuit, and after argument that court held his conviction invalid by reason of the
fact that the verdict against him was found by a jury of only
ten men. 159 Fed. Rep. 801. On a writ of certiorari issued
on petition of the United States the case was brought to this
court.
It appeared in the course of the trial that one of the jurbrs
by reason of illness was unable to sit further, whereupon the
following agreement, signed by the parties, was filed of record:
"Whereas, one of the jurors impanelled to try the aboveentitled indictment is unable by reason of illness to further sit
therein,
"Now, therefore, we consent and agree that the said juror,
to wit, Charles F. Low, may be discharged from the further
trial of this indictment, and that the trial now pending may
proceed before the remaining eleven jurors with the same force
and effect as if said juror had not been discharged."
The court then proceeded with the trial with the remaining
eleven jurors. Subsequently, the trial being still unfinished,
death occurred in the family of one of them, and another like
agreement was filed of record as to him.
The trial proceeded with the remaining ten jurors, who returned a verdict of guilty, and thereupon a motion in arrest of
judgment was filed as follows:
"And now, after verdict against the said John W. Dickinson,
and before sentence, comes the said John W. Dickinson, by his
attorneys, and moves the court here to arrest judgment herein
and not pronounce the same, becausc of manifest errors in the
record appearing, to wit: Because the said verdict against the
said John W. Dickinson was found by a so-called jury consisting of ten (10) jurors only, and not by a jury of twelve (12)

UNITED STATES v. DICKINSON.
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

jurors, as required by the Constitution and iaws of the United
States, and because no judgment against him, the said John W.
Dickinson, can be. lawfully rendered on said verdict."
This motion was overruled, and a bill of exceptions to the
ruling was duly allowed on the same day, and defendant was
sentenced by the court to nine years' imprisonment in the jail
at Dedham.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals was"The judgment of the District Court and the verdict therein
are set aside; and the case is remanded to that court for further
proceedings in accordance with law."
Application was then made to this court for a writ of certiorari, which, because of the urgency of the Government as
to the importance of the particular decision, was granted, notwithstanding the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals
was not final.
Nevertheless, we are met at the threshold by the objection
that the writ of certiorari cannot be granted under the act of
1891 in a criminal case, whatever the supposed importance of
the question involved.
In our opinion it is clear that the question of jurisdiction
must be decided by the proper coristruction of the act of March
3, 1891. That act '(March 3, 1891, c. 517, 26 Stat. 826) was
framed for the purpose of relieving the Suprennie Court from the
excessive burden imposed upon it by its increasingly crowded
docket, and assigned to the Circuit Courts of Appeals thereby
established a considerable part of the appellate jurisdiction formerly exercised by the Supreme Court. American Construction
Co. v. Jacksonville, T. & K. W. R. Co., 148 U. S. 372.
Section 6 reads as follows:
"The Circuit Courts of Appeals

.

.

.

shall exercise ap-

pellate jurisdiction to review by appeal or by writ of error final
decision in the District Court and the existing Circuit Courts
in all cases other than those provided for in the preceding sec
tion of this act,

.

.

.

and the judgments or decrees of the

Circuit Courts of Appeals shall be firl in all cases in which the
VOL. ccxiil-7

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

jurisdiction is dependent entirely upon the opposite parties to
the suit or controversy, being aliens and citizens of the United
States or citizens of different States; also in all cases arising
under the patent laws, under the revenue laws, and under the
criminal laws and in admiralty cases, excepting that in every
such subject within its appellate jurisdiction the Circuit Court
of Appeals at any time may certify to the Supreme Court of the
United States any questions or propositions of law concerning
which it desires the instruction of that court for its proper decision.
"And, thereupon, the Supreme Court may either give its
instruction on the questions and propositions certified to it,
which shall be binding upon the Circuit Courts of Appeals in
such case, or it may require that the whole record and cause
may be sent up to it for its consideration, and thereupon shall
decide the whole matter in controversy in the same manner as
if it had been brought there for review by writ of error or appeal.
"And exceping also that in any such case as is hereinbefore
made final in the Circuit Court of Appeals it shall be competent
for the Supreme Court to require, by certiorari or otherwise,
any such case to be certified to the Supreme Court for its review
and determination with the same power and authority in the
case as if it had been carried by appeal or writ of error to the
Supreme Court."
At the time when this act was passed the only existing method
by which a decision of the Supreme Court could be obtained on
a question of law arising in a criminal case not capital was upon
certificate of difference of opinion by the judges of the Circuit
Court, under §§ 651 and 697 of the Revised Statutes. In capital cases, by the act of February 6, 1889, 25 Stat. 656, c. 113,
§ 6, the defendant was given the right to obtain a review in
this court by writ of error. The act of 1891 superseded the existing statutory provisions as to a certificate of difference of
opinion. United States v. Rider, 163 U. S. 132; The Paquete
Habana, 175 U. S. 677.
By clause 5, appeals or writs of error from the District and

UNITED STATES v. DICKINSON.
213 U, S.

Opinion of the Court.

Circuit Courts direct to the Supreme Court might be taken in
cases involving the construction or application of the Constitution of the United States, or where the constitutionality of any
law of the United States or the validity or construction of any
treaty made under its authority was drawn in question, and in
cases in which the constitution or law of a State was claimed
to be in contravention of the Constitution of the United States.
The clauses as to appeals or writs of error where constitutional
questions were involved made no distinction in their language
between civil and criminal cases, and no distinction as to the
party who was aggrieved by the decision in the court below;
but in United States v. Sanges, 144 U. S. 310 (decided April 4,
1892), it was held, on great consideration, that the right of
review given by that provision of § 5, so far as it related to criminal cases, must be limited to review at the instance of the defendant after a decision in favor of the Government. The decision was reached after a thorough examination of the Federal
legislation as to appellate jurisdiction in criminal cases and of
the authorities in England and in the United States relating to
criminal appeals, in which the court finds no precedent without
express statutory enactment for any review of any judgment
in favor of the accused. And the case proceeded upon the
grounds thus summed up in the concluding paragraph of the
opinion:
"In none of the provisions of this act, defining the appellate jurisdiction, either of this court, or of the Circuit Court
of Appeals, is there any indication of an intention to confer
upon the United States the right to bring up a criminal case
of any grade after judgment below in favor of the defendant.
It is impossible to presume an intention on the part of Congress
to make so serious and far-reaching an innovation in the criminal jurisprudence of the United States."
As we have before observed, the certiorari in this case is the
certiorari provided for by the act of 1891, being in the nature
of an appeal or writ of error for the mere correction of error, a
new use of the writ.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

Section 14 of the Judiciary Act of 1789 gave to the Supreme
Court and the Circuit and District Courts "power to issue writs
of scire facias, habeas corpus, and all other writs not specially
provided for by statute, which may be necessary for the exercise of their respective jurisdictions and agreeable to the
principles and usages of law," but that was not a grant to this
court of appellate jurisdiction to review by certiorari for, the
mere correction of error any or all decisions of the lower Federal courts not otherwise reviewable.
In United States v. More, 3 Cranch, 159, 172, Mr. Chief Justice
Marshall said:
"In support of'the jurisdiction of the court, the attorney
general has adverted to the words of the Constitution, from
which he seemed to argue, that as criminal jurisdiction was
exercised by the courts of the United States, under the description of 'all cases in law and equity arising under the laws of the
United States,' and as the appellate jurisdiction of this. court
was extended to all enumerated cases, other than those which
might be brought on originally, 'with such exceptions, and
under such regulations, as the Congress shall make,' that the
Supreme Court possessed appellate jurisdiction in criminal, as
well as civil cases, over the judgments of every court, whose
decisions it would review, unless there should be some exception or regulation made by Congress, which should circumscribe
the jurisdiction conferred by the Constitution.
"This argument would be unanswerable, if the Supreme
Court had been created .bylaw, without describing its jurisdiction. The Constitution would then have been the only standard by which its powers could be tested, since there would be
clearly no Congressional regulation or exception on the sub-

ject.
"But as the jurisdiction of the court has been deicribed, it
has been regulated by Congress, and an affirmative description
of its powers must be understood as a regulation, under the
Constitution, prohibiting the exercise of other powers than
those described." Ex parte Yarbrough, 110 U. S. 651, 653;

UNITED STATES v. DICKINSON.
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Cross v. United States, 145 U. S. 571, 574. In the latter case
we said:
"We have, of course, no general authority to review, on error
or appeal, the judgments of the Circuit Courts of the United
States in cases within their criminal jurisdiction, or those of
the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia or of the Territories; and when such jurisdiction is intended to be conferred,
it should be done in clear and explicit language."
The decisions to that effect are very numerous and it is quite
inadmissible to hold that criminal cases cannot be reviewed
here by writ of error or appeal without express statutory authority, but may be by certiorari under Revised Statutes, §716,
for the correction of.any error that may have been committed
by the lower courts; and our decisions are to the contrary.
In Ex parte Gordon, 1 Bl. 503, it was ruled that neither a writ
of error, a writ of prohibition, nor certiorari, would lie from the
Supreme Court to a Circuit Court of the United States in a criminal case, and that the only case in which the court was authorized even to express an opinion on the proceedings in a Circuit
Court in a criminal case was where the judges of the Circuit
Court were opposed in opinion upon a question arising at the
trial and certified it to this court for its decision.
It is true that in the case of Chetwood, 165 U. S.443, 462, we
allowed the writ to bring up for review certain final orders of
the Circuit Court, which interfered with causes pending in this
court; and the question of the issue of the writ by this court in
the exercise of an inherent general power under the Constitution did not arise. In re Tampa Suburban R. R. Co., 168 U. S.
583.
And in Whitney v. Dick, 202 U. S.132, it was said that the
power of the court to issue original and independent writs of
certiorari might be upheld under the authority given by § 716,
citing Ex parte Vallandigham, 1 Wall. 243, and cases; Ewing
v. St. Louis, 5 Wall. 413; Ex parte Lange, 18 Wall. 163; and
quoting from the opinion of Mr. Justice Gray in American Construction Co. v. Jacksonville Railway, 148 U. S.372, where an

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

-

213 U. S.

application was made for mandamus and certiorari, as follows:
"Under this provision, the court might doubtless issue writs
of certiorari in proper cases. But the writ of certiorari has not
been issued as freely by this court as by the Court of Queen's
Bench in Ehgland. Ex parte Vallandigham, 1 Wall. 243, 249.
It was never issued to bring up from an inferior court of the
United States for trial a case within the exclusive jurisdiction
of a higher court. Fowler v. Lindsey, 3 Dall. 411, 413; Patterson v. United States; 2 Wheat. 221, 225, 226; Ex parte Hitz, 111
U. S. 766. It was used by this court as an auxiliary process
only, to supply imperfections in the record of a case already
before it; and not, like a writ of error, to review the judgment
of an inferior court. Barton v. Petit, 7 Cranch, 288; Ex parte
Gordon, 1 Black, 503; United States v. Adams, 9 Wall. 661;
United States v. Young, 94 U. S. 258; Luxton v. North River
Bridge, 147 U. S. 337, 341."
But the distinction between preventing excesses of jurisdiction and the mere correction of error is a fundamental one, and
the rule remains that appeal and writ of error, being the proper
forms of procedure provided for the mere correction of error,
the appellate jurisdiction of this court for that purpose is limited to the cases in which express provision is made for appeals
or writs of error, and that certiorari cannot be independently
used to supply the place of a writ of error for the mere correction
of error.
The construction of the act of 1891, must be arrived at without reference to such recent legislation as the act of Congress of
March 2, 1907, c. 2564, 84 Stat. 1246, providing for writs of
error in certain instances in criminal cases, in respect of which
this court held in United States v. Keitel, 211 U. S. 398, -"thatthe
purpose of the statute was to give the United States the right to
seek a review of decisions of the lower court concerning the subjects embraced within the clauses of the statute, and not to open
here the whole case. We think this conclusion arises not only
because the giving of the exceptional right to review in favor

HEPNER v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

213 U. S.

of the United Stdtes is limited by the very terms of the statute
to authority to reexamine the particular decisions which the
statute embraces, but also because of the whole context, which
clearly indicates that the purpose was to confine the right given
to a review of the decisions enumerated in the statute, leaving
all other questions to be controUed by the general mode of procedure governing the same."
So far as that statute is an innovation in criminal jurisdiction
in certain classes of prosecutions, it cannot be extended beyond
its terms.
Writ of certioraridismissed.
MR. JUSTICE MOODY took no part in the consideration and

disposition of this case.

HEPNER v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 626.

Argued March 2, 1909.-Decided April 5, 1909'

A penalty may be recovered by a civil action, although such an action
may be so far criminal in its nature that the defendant cannot be
compelled to testify against himself therein in respect to any matter

involving his being guilty of a criminal offense.
A suit brought by the United States to recover the penalty prescribed
by §§ 4 and 5 of the Alien Immigration Act of March 3, 1903,'c. 1012,
32 Stat. 1213. is a civil suit and not a criminal prosecution, and when
it appears by undisputed testimony that a defendant has committed

an offense against those sections the trial judge may direct a verdict
in favor of the Government.

THE facts, which involve the right of a trial judge to direct
a verdict in favor of the Government in an action for penalty

