LEEDS & CATLIN v. VICTOR TALKING MACH. CO. 301
213 U. S.

:Syllabus.

In 1793 President Washington sought to take the opinion
of the judges of the Supreme Court of the United States as to
various questions arising under our treaties with France, but
they declined to respond. Marshall thus speaks of the matter
in his Life of Washifigton:
"About ihis time it is probable that the difficulties felt by
the judges of the Supreme Court in expressing their sentiments
on the points referred to them were communicated to the Executive. Considering themselves as merely constituting a legal
tribunal for the decision of controversies brought before them
in legal form, these gentlemen deemed it improper to enter the
field of politics by declaring their opinion on questions notgrowing out of the case before them."' Story on the Constitution, § 1571.
It was long -ago held by this court that the discharge of such
a functionwas not an exercise of judicial power. United States
v. Ferreira, 13 How. 40, note on page 52; Hayburn's Case, 2
Dall. 409; see'note, pp. 410, 411, 412, 413, 414. And that
ruling sustains the conclusion of the Court of Appeals, in the
matter of the construction of this act to which the opinion is
confined.
Writ of certiorariquashed.

LEEDS AND CATLIN COMPANY v. VICTOR TALKING
MACHINE COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 80. Argued January 15, 18, 1909.-Decided April 19, 1909.
Where grave questions of fact are presented by the proof on which a
preliminary injunction has been granted in a patent case, this court
will not go beyond the action of the lowcr court and decide those
questions and the .case on the merits.
A combination which. produces by the cooperation of its constituents
the rekult specified in the manner specified is a true mechanical device
and a valid combination.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Statement of the Case.

213 U. S.

A patent may embrace more than one invention, Steinmetz v. Allen,
•192 U. S. 543, and it may embrace a process and the apparatus by
which it is performed.
Where dependent and related inventions are patented separately a for.
eign patent for either does not affect the other under § 4887, Rev.
Stat., and the same rule applies if such inventions are embraced in one
-patent.
While a combination is a union of elements which may be partly new, or
wholly old or wholly new, the combination is a means distinct from
its constituent elements, any of which, if new and patentable, may be
covered by separate claims in the same patent as the combination.
Separate claims in the same patent are independent inventions, and the
infringement of one is not the infringement of the others, and the redress of the patentee is limited by the injury he suffers; nor is the
validity and duration of valid claims affected by the invalidity or
expiration of any other claim. Siemens v. Sellers, 123 U. S. 276, distinguished.
In this case held that the foreign patent granted to Berliner for talking
machines was not identical with certain claims included in his United
States patent in suit and therefore his patent as to those claims did not
expire with the foreign patent under § 4887, Rev. Stat.
A patent of the United States for an invention exteuds under § 4887,
Rev. Stat., for the duration of the definite term for which a foreign
patent may have been granted for the same invention, and does not
expire by the forfeiture of such foreign patent or through the operation of a condition subsequent according to the foreign'patent, such
as the payment of fees during the life of the patent.
146 Fed. Rep. 534; 148 Fed. Rep. 1022, affirmed,
THis case is here on certiorari to an interlocutory decree of

injunction restraining the petitioner, Leeds & Catlin Company
from manufacturing, using or selling sound reproducing apparatus or devices embodied in claim No. 35 of letters patent
No. 534,543, issued to Emil Berliner, bearing date nineteenth of
February, 1895, and also from manufacturing, using or selling or

in any way disposing of apparatus or devices which embody the
method specified in' claim No. 5 of the same' patent. These
claims will be given hereafter.
The bill is in the usual form and alleges the issuing of the
patent and the existence of the necessary conditions thereof

LEEDS & CATLIN v. VICTOR TALKING MACH. CO. 303
213 U.S.

Statement of the Case.

under the laws of the United States. It also alleges the transfer
of title to the plaintiffs in the suit and the infringement of claims
5, 32 and 35 by the defendant, petitioner herein.
Petitioner answered, denying some of the allegations of the
bill, and of others denying that it had knowledge or information
sufficient to form a belief. Explicitly denied infringement, and
alleged anticipation of the invention described in the patent by
a great number of patents and publications in this country and
other countries, an enumeration of which was made. And
hence it is alleged that, in view of the state of the art, Berliner
was not the first inventor or discoverer of any material or substantial part of the alleged improvement and invention described or claimed.
The answer further alleged that said letters patent did not
describe or specify or claim any subject-matter patentable under
the statutes of the United States, and are and always have been
null and void. Abandonment is alleged and a two-years' use
of the invention in this country before the application for the
patent, that the invention and improvement were known and
used by others and were in public use and on sale in this country
by divers persons, a list of whose names is given.
It is alleged that before the invention was patented in the
United States the same was patented, or caused to be patented,
by Emil Berliner in foreign. countries, and that by reason
whereof, under § 4887 of -the Revised Statutes of the United
States, the letters patent in suit were limited to expire at the
same time with said foreign patents and each of them. The.
numbers and dates cf the foreign patents are given-two in
Great Britain, three in France, three in Germany and one in
Canada. They will be specifically referred to hereafter. And it
is alleged that in consequence thereof the said letters patent of
the United States have long since expired and plaintiff is not
entitled to any relief by injunction or other relief in equity,
that a court of equity has no jurisdiction of the suit, and that
plaintiff has an adequate remedy at law. A replication was
filed to the answer.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Petitioner.

213. U. S.

Upon the bill and certain supporting affidavits an order to
show cause against a preliminary injunction was issued, which
coining on to be heard upon quch affidavits, and other affidavits
and exhibits, a preliminary injunction was granted. 146 Fed.
Rep. 534. It was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals.
148 Fed. Rep. 1022.
Mr. Louis Hicks for petitioner:
Claims 5 and 35 of the patent in suit are void because they
are claims for the functions of a machine. See dissenting
opinion of Wallace, J., case below, 154 Fed. Rep.. 61; Westinghouse v. Boyden Co., 170 U. S. 537, 554; Coming v. Burden, 15
How. 252; The Telephone Cqses, 126 U. S. 1, 531; Risdon Locomotive Works v. Medart, 158 U. S. 68, 78; Hatch v. Moffitt, 15
Fed. Rep. 252; Cleveland Co. v. Detroit Co., 131 Fed. Rep. 740,
742; Gage v. Kellogg, 23 Fed. Rep. 891, 894; Manhattan Co. v.
Helios-Co., 135 Fed. Rep. 785; Tyden v. Ohio Co., 152 Fed. Rep.
183; American Co. v. Steward, 155 Fed. Rep. 731, 738; Amerioan Co. v. Denning, 160 Fed. Rep. 108.
Claims which describe the operation and effect of a machine
have, without exception, been held invalid. Busch v. Jones,
184 U. S. 598, 60.7; Risdon Locomotive Works v. Medart, 158
U. S. 68, citing and approving Mackay v. Jackman, 12 Fed.
Rep. 615; Brainard v. Cramme, 12 Fed. Rep. 621; Gage v.
Kellogg, 23 Fed. Rep. 891; Hatch v. Moffitt, 15 Fed. Rep. 252;
Sickles v. Falls Co., 4 Blatch. 508; Excelsior Co. v. Union Co.,
32 Fed. Rep. 221; Coupe V. Weatherhead, 16. Fed. Rep. 673;'
aff'd 147 U. S. 322; Stokes Co. v. Heller, 96 Fed. Rep. 104;
Dodge Mfg. Co. v. Ohio Works, 101 Fed. Rep. 584; Dodge Mfg.
Co. v. Collins, 106 Fed. Rep. 935, 937; Cleveland Co..v. Detroit
Co., 131 Fed. Rep. 740, 742; Travers v. Hammock Co., 78 Fed.
Rep. 638; Wells Glass Co. v. Henderson, 67 Fed. Rep. 930, 935;
American Co. v. Elkhart Co., 84 Fed. Rep. 960; .Ginsdorff v.
Deering, 81 Fed. Rep. 952; Dick Co..v. Henry, 160 Fed..Rep.
690, 692.
Claim 35 of the patent in suit is void because it. is indefinite

LEEDS & CATLIN v. VICTOR TALKING MACH. CO. 305
213 U. S.

Argument for Petitioner.

and meaningless and claims nothing. See Merrill v. Yeomans,
94 U. S. 568, 573; Keystone Bridge Co. v. Phoenix Iron Co., 95
U. S.274, 278; Hardison v. Brinkman, 156 Fed. Rep. 962, 967;
Cincinnati Co. v. American Co., 143 Fed. Rep. 322, 325.
Claims 5 and 35 of the patent in suit are void because anticipated by British patent No. 1644 of 1878 to Edison, and for
lack of invention in view of the prior art. This defense is good
and valid and should have been considered and decided on its
merits by the courts below under the rule stated by this court
in Mast, Foos & Co. v. Stover Mfg. Co., 177 U. S. 485. See under
this head: McClain v. Ortmayer, 141 U. S. 419, affirming.33
Fed. Rep. 284.
Claims 5 and 35 of the patent in suit are void because anticipated by United States patent No. 341,214 of May 4, 1886, to
Bell and Tainter, or by British patent No. 6027 of May 4, 1886,
to Johnson for the same Bell and Tainter invention, and for
lack of invention in view of the prior art.
Claims 5 and 35 of the patent in suit are void because anticipated by Werner Suess, and for lack of invention in view of the
prior-art.
This defense rests upon the three following documents:
1. United States patent No. 427,279, of May 6, 1890, to Suess,
.assignor to Berliner.
2. Canadian patent No. 41,901 of February 11, 1893, applied
for May 5, 1891, to Berliner, as assignee of Suess.
3. Berliner's lecture before the Franklin Institute of May 16,
1888, acknowledging Suess to be the inventor.
Berliner patent in suit No. 534,543, of February 19, 1895, was
granted for an invention previously patented by Berliner in
Germany, by Berliner German patent No. 53,622, of November
20, 1889. The term of the patent in suit, therefore, expired
with the expiration of the term of the prior German patent on
November 7, 1902, before this suit was begun. Revised Statutes, §4887; Bate Refrig. Co. v. Sulzberger, 157 U. S. 1; Societd
v. Electric Co., 97 Fed. Rep. 604, 605; Siemens' Admr. v. Sellers, 123 U. S.276.
vo., ccx!i-2Q

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Petitioner.

213 U. S.

Revised Statutes, § 4887, fixing the single term of a. home
'patent granted for an invention" previously patented in a
foreign country, is clear and unambiguous and must control
the decision in this suit without change by judicial action
"based upon some supposed policy of Congress." A patent
cannot have a plurality of terms and expire in parcels. Siemens v. Sellers, 123 U. S. 276. And see also Hadden v. Collector, 5 Wall. 107, 111; Scott v. Reid, 10 Pet. 524, 527; Karst v.
Gane, 136 N. Y. 316, 321; People v. Woodruff, 132 N. Y. 355,
364; South Bay Co. v. Howey, 190 N. Y. 240, 247.
Broadening or narrowing the claims of an American patent
will not prevent the operation of the statute. 5 Federal Statutes Annotated, 470, and cases there cited.
The test of the question whether an American patent is
granted for an invention previously patented in a foreign
country, is whether an article 'made according to the description
of the invention patented by the foreign patent would infringe
the American patent, that is, any claim of the American patent.
Commercial Manufacturing Co. v. FairbankCo., 135 U. S. 176.
In determining whether a home patent is granted for an
invention previously patented in a foreign country, the 'precise
question is whether any of the claims of the home patent include the invention or some substantive part of the invention
shown by the prior foreign patent. If so, the home patent
expires as to all its claims with the foreign patent since a "patent cannot expire in parcels." Western Electric Co. v. Citizen's
Tel. Co., 106 Fed. Rep. 215,Thomson-Houston Co. v. McLedn,
153 Fed. Rep, 883. See Electrical Accumulator Co. v. Brush
Electric Co., 52 Fed. Rep. 130.
A patent cannot expire in part and survive in part. A generic
claim, covering the specific form of a specific claim and other
forms as well, must, under any construction of the statute, expire with the expiration of the specific claim. Sawyer.Spindle
Co. v. Carpenter, 133 Fed. Rep. 238; aff'd 143 Fed. Rep. 976;
Aquarama Co.-v. Old Mill Co., 124 Fed. Rep. 229, and Westinghouse Co. v. Stanley Co., 138 Fed. Rep. 123, distinguished.

LEEDS & CATLIN v. VICTOR TALKING MACR CO. 307
213 U. S.

Argument for Petitioner.

Berliner patent in suit No. 534,543 of February 19, 1895,
was grpnted for inventions previously patented by Berliner in
France, by his French. patent No. 207,090 of July 19, 1890.
The term of the patent in suit, therefore, expired with the expiration of the term of the prior French patent on July 19, 1.105,
before the decree for injunction was entered.
The patent in suit and claims 5 and 35 thereof expired, before'
this suit was begun, with the expirationi of the prior British,
French and German patents of November 8, 1887, to Berliner
for the so-called "Basic Invention" covered by said claims 5
and 35.
Berliner patent in suit No. 534,543 of February 19, 1895,
expired February 11, 1899, before this suit was begun, with the
expiration of the term of six years for which the prior BerlinerSuess Canadian patent No. 41,901, of February 11, 1893, was
granted, and beyond which it was not prolonged. Commercial
Mfg. Co. v. Fairbank,135 U. . 176. See also; Bate v. Hammond,
129 U. S. 151; Gramme Electric Co. v. Arnoux, 17 Fed. Rep.
838, 840.
Judge Townsend found that the Berliner-Suess Canadian
patent "discloses and broadly claims the invention covered
by the claims here in suit," and "that if this patent expired,
as claimed in 1899, the patent in suit expired at the same
time."
Assuming, as Judge Townsend found, that the BerlinerSuess Canadian patent "discloses and broadly claims the invention, covered by the claims here in suit," the patent in suit
expired on February 11, 1899, with the expiration of the six
year term for which the Canadian patent was granted.
The invention of the Berliner-Suess Canadian patent was,
under the statute and decided case , patented and caused to be
patented by Berliner, the patentee of the patent in suit.
Under the patent act of Canada, a Canadian patent "expires,"
within the meaning of § 4887 of the Revised Statutes, at the
expiration of the term for which the fee to the Government has
been paid, unless a further fee for a "further term" is paid.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Respondents.

213 U. S.

The patent does not lapse and is not forfeited, but its term expires. The Berliner-Suess Canadian patent was granted for a
term of six, and not of eighteen, years, since the granted term
depends solely upon the provisions of the patent act.
Under the. provisions of the patent act of Canada payment
of a further fee for the prolongation of the patent for a further
term is a condition precedent to the existence of a term beyond
the original term of six years, and not a condition subsequent
operating on- non-performance to forfeit the unexpired portion
of a term previously granted. See Pohl v. Anchor Brewing Co.,
134 U. S. 381,386; Davis v. Gray, 16 Wall. 229; Giddings v. Ins.
Co., 102 U. S. 111.
Mr. Horace Pettit for respondents:
The validity of claims 5 and 35 have been sustained in all
cases where these claims have been brought into question.
Victor Talking Machine Co. v. American GraphophoneCo., 140
Fed. Rep. 860; same case on appeal, 145 Fed. Rep. 350; Victor
Talking Machine Co. v. Hoschke et al., 158 Fed. Rep. 309; Victor
Talking Machine Co. v. The Fair,118 Fed. Rep. 609; S. C., 123
Fed. Rep. 424; also Victor Talking Machine Co. v. Shaffer &
Salm, and Victor Talking Machine Co. v. Douglas Phonograph
Co.,,not yet reported.
Siemens v. Sellers, 123 U. S.276, does not sustain petitioner's
proposition that if a minor feature of the United States patent
happens to be patented abroad before the United States patent
separately and independently of the main feature of the United
States patent, that the expiration, of that patent forfeits the
entire United States patent. Such a proposition is absolutely
contrary to the intent of § 4887. See Westinghouse v. Stanley
Improvement Co., 138 Fed. Rep. 623. Under the decision in
Siemens v. Sellers, 'the foreign patent, in order to come within
the statute, § 4887, must contain the principal invention of the
United Sfates patent sought to be curtailed thereby. See also
United Nickle Co. v. California Electrical Works, 25 Fed. Rep.
475, 479; Gage v. Herring, 107 U. S. 640, 646; Leggett v. Standard

LEEDS & CATLIN v. VICTOR TALKING MACH. CO. 309
213 U. S.

Argument for Respondents.

Oil Co., 149 U. S. 287, 293; Carlton v. Bokee, 17 Wall. 463, 472;
Russell v. Place, 94 U. S. 606, 609; CelluloidMfg. Co. v. Zylonite
Brush & Comb Co., 27 Fed. Rep. 291, 294.
In all the authorities, however, which have been considered
where it was held that the prior foreign patent limited the
domestic patent, the substantial invention of the United States
patent had been patented in the prior foreign patent, or the.
invention of the foreign patent has been so nearly like the
substantial invention of the United States patent as to render
them practically one and the same.
Where they have not been substantially one and the same,
the defense has failed. Aquarama Co. v. Old Mill Co., 124 Fed.
,Rep. 333; Welsbach Light Co. v. Rex Incandescent Co., 94 Fed.
Rep. 1006; Electric Accumulator Co. v. Brush Electric Co., 52
Fed. Rep. 130. See also Westinghouse Electric Co. v. Stanley
Instrument Co., 138 Fed. Rep. 823.
Is the principal invention ,of the domestic patent found in
the foreign patent? Is the subject-matter of one the same in all
essential particulars as that of the other? These were the main
tests applied in Siemens v. Sellers, 123 U. S.276. See also-Accumulator Co. v. Julien Electric Co., 57 Fed. Rep. 605.
If the principal invention of the subsequent United States
patent is not described or claimed in the prior foreign patent,
the principal invention cannot forfeit. Westinghouse Electric
Co. v. Stanley Instrument Co., 138 Fed. Rep. 823.
In construing § 4887 the period of the prior foreign patent
to be taken into consideration with the domestic patent, is the
longest possible term of the foreign patent; is the period of duration expressed in the grant;.or in other words, the duration
of the United States patent is fixed when the United States
patent issues, by the longest possible term of the foreign patent,
and shall not be subject to be terminated by the 'occurrence
or non-occurrence of certain facts which would require extraneous proof. Diamond Match Co. v. Adirondack Match Co., 65
Fed. Rep. 803; Pohl V. Anchor Brewing Co., 134 U. S. 381;
Holmes Electric Protective Co. v. Metropolitan Burglar Alarm

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

Co., 21 Fed. Rep. 458; Consolidated Roller Mill Co. v. Walker,
43 Fed. Rep. 575.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

The motion for preliminary injunction was made upon affidavits. Those of respondent (complainant in the Circuit Court)
described the invention and the machine made in accordance
therewith, averred the practical identity of petitioner's machine
therewith, and set forth the record in the case of The Victor
Machine Co. and The United States Gramophone Co. v. The
American GraphophoneCo., instituted in the Circuit Court for
the Southern District of New York. The affidavits averred that
the suit was pending and awaiting decision when this suit was
brought, and was subsequently decided; that by the decision,
claims 5 and 35 of the patent in suit were held valid and infringed by the talking machine of the defendants, and that an
injunction was ordered. 140 Fed. Rep. 800. And it was stated
that the Circuit Court of Appeals, though not concurring with
the Circuit Court in all of its reasoning, affirmed the decree.
The affidavits of petitioner (the defendant in, the courts
below) set forth the defenses which were made in the case just
referred to, a summary of the proofs introduced to sustain the
defense, and submitted new matter. The affidavits also contained a description of the patent in suit and what was considered to be its basic invention, averred its identity with certain
foreign patents which were not in evidence in the other suit.
The affidavits also undertook to meet and refute the charge of
infringement. The affidavits were very long and circumstantial, and had attached to them copies of the foreign and domestic patents relied on, translations of foreign laws, copies of
publications and certain testimony. Such parts of these exhibits as we deem relevant will be-referred to hereafter.
Upon this body of proof, formidable even in its quantity, and
having no other elucidation than the arguments of counsel and

LEEDS & CATLIN v. VICTOR TALKING MACH. CO. 311
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court..

some mechanical exhibits, presenting grave questions of fact,
we are asked by petitioner to go beyond the action of the lower
courts, and not only reverse them as to a preliminary injunction
but decide the case' If we should yield to this invocati6n and
attempt a final decision it would be difficult to say whether it
would be more unjust to petitioner or to respondent.
The Circuit Court felt a like embarrassment, as will be observcd from its opinion. The court did not pass on the defense
of infringement, and said that, except as to one patent, the
petitioner had failed to introduce any new matter which would
have led the courts in the other case, if such matter had been
before them,to have reached a different conclusion. And, speaking of the patents referred to, the Ciicuit Judge said: "But even
if I am mistaken in this view, and if the expiration of the Suess
Canadian patent is a complete defense, or if a decision of the
questions raised as to the character and .scope of the' various
patents now introduced for the first time should be postponed
until final hearing, yet I am constrained to grant the injunction
in order to permit an appeal and a determination of the questions at the earliest possible moment."
And the lower courts also reserved to the merits the consideration of the defense that claims 5 and 35 were invalid because
they were the functions of machines, resting those defenses,
so far as the preliminary injunction was concerned, upon the
adjudication in the prior suit. We shall do the same, remarking,
however, that the contention, if it has any strength as to claim
5, seems to us untenable as to claim 35. We think the latter
is a valid combination, consisting of the elements, (1) a traveling tablet having a sound record formed thereon; .(2) a reproducing stylus, shaped for engagement with the record, and free
to be vibrated and propelled by it. It is, therefore, a true
mechanical device, producing by the co6peration of its constituents the result specified and in the manner specified.
In passing on the other foreign patents the Circuit Court considered that the prior adjudications fortified the presumption
of the validity of the patent in suit, and established its scope,

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

and-that the new matter introduced by petitioner did not repel
the presumption or limit the extent of the patent. That the
lower courts properly regarded the prior adjudications as a
ground of preliminary injunction is established by the cases
cited in Walker on Patents, § 665 et seq. See also Robinson on
Patents, § 117 et seq. And in that aspect the question must be
considered, and so considering it we may pass the defenses of
anticipation, whether complete or partial, and the defense
of infringement. These are, we have already said, questions
of fact which we are not inclined to pass upon unaided by the
judgments of the lower courts made after a hearing on the
merits.
The patent in suit and the patents which, it is contended,
anticipate it or limit its extent or duration are for methods or
devices whereby sound undulations trace or inscribe themselves
upon a solid material, and are by suitable devices made to reproduce themselves and the sounds which made them. One of
the questions in the case is, as we have seen, the relation of the
patent in suit to the prior art. It is contended by the respondent that Berliner (he was the patentee of the patent in suit),
improved the prior art, not only in the methods of recording
and reproducing sounds, but in the devices by which the
methods are accomplished.
In the old method the sound record was produced by vertical
vibrations, either indenting a pliable material, by and in accordance with the sound waves along a helical or spiral line, as
in the Edison patents, or by like vibrations engraving a suitable
material, by and in accordance with the sound waves, as in the
Bell and Tainter patent. By both of these methods there was
produced a record consisting of a groove, of varying depth,
that is, containing elevations and depressions corresponding. to
the sound waves which produced them. In the Berliner patents
the vibrations are made to inscribe a laterally undulating line
in the general direction of a spiral. The line, therefore, is of
even depth, the inequalities or sinuosities produced by the
round waves being upon its sides., By this method there is pro-

LEEDS & CATLIN v. VICTOR TALKING MACH. CO. 313
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

duced a sound record tablet, consisting of a flat disc of hard
resisting material, having in its surface inscribed a spiral groove
of practically even depth, but undulating laterally in accordance
with the sound waves: The patent in suit describes and specifies
the ways of making such record tablet, as do the prior patents
the sound records of the respective patentees. Further description of the records, however, is not necessary, as we shall
have with them but incidental concern.
The records being made, the next step is the reproduction of
the sounds which they record. This is done by adjusting to
the line or groove inscribed upon the records a point or stylus
attached to a diaphragm, which, being vibrated by the indentations or sinuosities of the groove, reproduces the sounds that
made them. In the prior art the reproducing stylus and sound
record were brought in operating relation to each other in two
ways.. The sound record was mechanically conveyed across the
reproducing stylus, or the reproducer and its stylus were mechanically conveyed across the record. By one or the other of
these means the stylus was kept in engagement with the record
and accommodated to the shifting positions of its operative portions. In the patent in suit such independent means are dispensed with. The stylus is made to engage with the grooves in
the record tablet, is vibrated laterally by its undulations, and
guided or propelled at the same time with its diaphragm attachment across the face of the tablet, the successive portions of the
groove reproducing the sound waves, which are transmitted to
the air. The sound records are made of hard, indestructible material and, as stated in one of iespondent's affidavits, the groove
impressed therein "serves the twofold purpose of vibrating the
stylus and producing the necessary vibrations in the diaphragm
of the sound box, and also of automatically propelling the stylus
in the groove across the surface of the record without a feed
screw or other mechanism independent of the record itself."
The method of doing that is the subject-matter of claim 5, and
the means for performing the method is the subject-matter of
claim 35. They are, respectively, as follows: "No. 5, the method

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Ovinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

of reproducing sounds from a record of the same, which consists in vibrating a stylus and propelling the same along the
record, substantially as described. No. 35 is a sound-producing
apparatus, consisting of a traveling tablet having a sound record framed thereon and a reproducing stylus shaped for engagement with said record and free to be vibrated and propelled
by the same, substantially as described."
We may now understandingly consider the new matter which
was relied on in the courts below. The first in importance of
these is that the patent in suit is for the same invention of certain foreign patents and expired with them. These patents consist of three French patents to Emil Berliner, respectively dated
November 8, 1887, May 15, 1888, and July 19, 1890; German
patents to Berliner dated November 8, 1887, May 16, 1888,
and November 20, 1889; a Canadian patent of February 11,
1893, assigned by W. Suess to Berliner; English patents of
November 8, 1887, and May 15, 1888. These patents are presented in an affidavit by the leading counsel for petitioner, accompanied by such comparisons of them with the patent in
suit as established, it is contended, the identity of their inventions with its invention, and made applicable and controlling
§ 4887 of the Revised Statutes, which is as follows:
"SEc. 4887. No person shall be debarred from receiving. a
.patent for his invention or discovery, nor shall any patent be
declared invalid, by reason of its having been first patented or
caused to be patented in a foreign country, unless the same has
been introduced into public use in the United States for more
than two years prior to the application. But every patent
grantsd for an invention which has been previously patented
in a foreign country shall be so limited as to expire at the same
time with the foreign patent, or, if there be more than one, at
the ssxme time with the one having the shortest term, and in
no c9se shall it be in force more than seventeen years."
The affidavits describe not only the reproducer of the patent
in suit but also the recorder, and give details of the construction of both, and petitioner, in its briefs, elaborately traces

LEEDS & CATLIN v. VICTOR TALKING MACH. CO. 315
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the development of Berliner's ideas in coinparison with the
prior art through three stages, each of which, it is contended
"is represented by domestic and foreign patents, obtained or
applied for, respectively, in 1887, 1888 and 1889-1892." Each
stage, it is insisted, is claimed as an improvement upon the preceding stage, and all of them are but improvements upon the
prior art. Berliner did not employ, it is said, any new principles
in the reproduction of sound from a sound record, "the difference in the sound reproducing machines employed by him
and those of the prior art consisting of modifications of details
of construction." And it is further contended that an analysis
of the patent. in suit demonstrates "that the improvements
described and claimed related first, to the recording of sound;
and, second, to-the reproducing of sound." It is impossible,
counsel say, "to seriously contend that the essence of the improvements consist rather in the reproduction of sound than in
the recording of sound." It is nevertheless argued that the
lower courts so regarded the patent in suit, and by that error
adjudged that the foreign patents did not embody Berliner's
invention, and that, therefore, the patent in suit did-not expire
with them. Indeed, it is urged that "in the face" of the "expressed and positive declaration of the patentee as to what
are the features ofhis invention, the courts below not only
held that the patent included other features not enumerated
by Berliner, but went even further, and held that the features
which Berliner did enumerate as the features of his invention
are not the principal features of his invention, but are mere
minor details." This is a misapprehension of the view of the
courts below. They confine themselves, as it was proper to do,
to the claims in suit and to the invention exhibited in them,
and in considering the relation of the patent in suit with foreign
patents they distinguished between what the Circuit Court denominates the "broad and basic invention" covered by those
claims and the "minor part" shown in the foreign patents.
Petitioner attempts to make the recording and reproduction of
sounds essential parts of one invention, of which the claims are

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

but parts. The purpose is to identify the invention of the patent with every one of the foreign patents and bring the case
under what is conceived to be the doctrine of Siemens v. Sellers,
123 U. S. 276.
That case, it is contended, precludes a distinction between the
claims of patent into basic and not basic, principal or subordinate, and establishes that all the claims of a home patent must
be so limited as to expire with the expiration of a foreign patent,
or if there be more than one prior foreign patent, with the expiration of the one having the shortest term. Upon the expiration of a patent, it is argued, all of its claims expire, since,
as this court said in Siemens v. Sellers, as it is contended, "a
patent cannot be considered as running partly to one date and
partly to another, for this would be productive of endless confusion. In other words, a patent cannot expire in parcels, it
cannot have a plurality of terms." Therefore it is contended
that it is the patent, and not the separate claims thereof, which
are by the statute limited to expire with the foreign patent.
Siemens v. Sellers is cited for thi* doctrine, as we have said,
and also the following cases: Western Electric Co. v. Citizen'
Telegraph Co., 106 Fed. Rep. 215; Sawyer v. Spindle Co., 133
Fed. Rep. 238, affirmed in 143 Fed. Rep. 976; Thomson & Houston Co. v. McLean, 153 Fed. Rep. 883.
Siemens v. Sellers is especially relied upon, and whatever there
is in the other cases that support the contention of petitioner
is based on that case. In Siemens v. Sellers the patent passed
upon was for an improved regenerator furnace, so called, and
the question presented was whether it was identical with that
described in an expired English patent. The court said (p. 283):
"We have carefully compared the two patents, the English
and American, and can see no essential difference between them.
They describe the same furnace in all essential particulars.
The English specification is more detailed, and the drawings
are more minute and full; but the same thing is described in
both. There is only one claim in the English patent, it is true.
But that claim, under the English patent system, entitled the

LEEDS & CATLIN v. VICTOR TALKING MACH. CO. 317
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

patentees to their entire invention, and is at -least as broad and
comprehensive as all four claims in the American patent."
It will be observed, therefore, that there was no distinction
in the subject-matter of the claims. There was a difference in
the number of the claims arising from the difference in the patent systems, but the claims were coextensive in substance and
in invention. There was no question, therefore, of a difference
in claims covering different inventions, but such contingency, it
is contended, is embraced in the following passage (p. 283):
"It is contended by the counsel of the complainants that the
American patent contains improvements which, are not exhibited in the English patent. But if this were so, it would
not help the complainants. The principal invention is in both;
and if the American patent contains additional improvements,
this fact'cannot save the patent from the operation of the law
which is invoked, if it is subject to that law at all. A patent
cannot be exempt from the operation of the law by adding
some new improvements to the invention; and cannot be construed as running partly from one date and partly from another.
This would be productive of endless confusion."
This passage must be construed by. what precedes it. It
was said that there was no essential difference between the patents. "They described the same functions in all essential particulars," is the language used. "The principal invention,"
therefore, was "the same in both," and the improvements,
which it was asserted the American patent contained, did not
destroy its essence or its identity with the English patent,
necessarily, therefore, did not save it "from the operation of
the law." And the court meant no more than that. It, was
not said that a patentable improvement could not be made
which could be secured by a patent which would endure beyond
the expiration of a prior foreign patent for that which was improved. Such a ruling would contravene the right given by
the statute. Section 4886 provides that "Any person who has
invented or discovered any new and useful art, machine, manufacture, or composition of matter, or any new and useful im-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

provement thereof

213 U. S.

may obtain a patent therefor."

The

improvement would be the invention and would endure for the
period given to it by law. Besides, a patent may embrace
more than one invention. Steinnetz v. Allen, 192 U. S. 543.
A process and an apparatus by which it is performed are distinct
things. They may be found in one patent; they may be made
the subject, of different patents. So may other dependent and
related inventions. If patented separately a foreign patent
for either would not affect the other. Why would such effect
follow if they are embraced in the same patent? What policy
of the law would be subserved by it? The purpose of § 4887
of the Revised Statutes is very clear. It is that whenever an
invention is made free to the public of a foreign country it
shall be free in this. The statute has no other purpose. It is not
intended to confound rights and to make one invention free
because another is made so. This will even more distinctly appear in case of a patent for a combination, such as claim 35
is of the patent in suit.
A combination is a union of elements, which may be partly
old and partly new, or wholly old or wholly new. But whether
new or old, the combination is a means-an invention-distinct
from them. They, if new, may be inventions and the proper
subjects of patents, or they' may be covered by claims in the
same patent with .the combination.
But whether put in the same patent with the combination or
made the subjects of separate patents, they are not identical
with the combination. To become that they must be united
under the same codperative law. Certainly, one element is not
the combination nor in any proper sense can it be regarded as
a substantive part of the invention represented by the combination, and it can make no difference whether the element
was always free or becomes free by the expiration of a prior
patent, foreign or domestic. In making a combination an inventor has the whole field of mechanics to draw from. This
view is in accordance with the principles of the patent laws.
It is in accordance with the policy of § 4887 of the Revised

LEEDS & CATLIN v. VICTOR TALKING MACH. CO. 319
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Statutes, which is urged against it. That policy is, as we have
seen, that an American patent is not precluded by a foreign
patent for the same invention, but if a foreign patent be granted,
an American patent is granted upon the condition that the
"invention shall be free to the American people whenever, by
reason of the expiration of the foreign patent, it becomes free
to the people abroad." Bate Refrigerating Co. v. Sulzberger,
157 U. S. 1, 36. And all of the provisions of the statutes are
accommodated. Each invention is given the full period of
seventeen years, which the statute prescribes. for it.1 If limited
at all, it can only be by a prior foreign patent identical with it.
Nor can confusion result. Why should it? It does not result
from analogous applications of the patent laws. Claims are
independent inventions. One may be infringed, others not,
and the redress of the patentee is limited to the injury he suffers,
not by the abstract rights which have been granted him in
other claims. One claim may be valid, all the rest invalid; invalid for the want of some essential patentable attribute. But
what is good remains and is unaffected by its illegal associates.
In such cases the patent does not stand or fall as a unity. If
claims may be separable as in the case of infringement of some
and not of others; if claims can be separable, though some are
invalid, may they not be separable when some of them have
expired? Certainly confusion cannot arise in one case more
than in the other. Confusion might result in such circumstances
as were presented in Siemens v. Sellers, where it was sought to
extend the principal invention-indeed the only invention-by
the date of a mere formal improvement of it.. In such case, as
Sec. 4884. Every patent shall contain a short title or description
of the invention or discovery, correctly indicating its nature and design,
and a grant to the patentee, his heirs or assigns, for the term of seventeen
years, of the exclusive right to make, use, and vend the invention or
discovery throughout the United States, and the Territories thereof,
referring to the specification for the particulars thereof. A copy of the
specification and drawings shall be annexed to the patent and be a part
thereof.

'320

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

it was said, the patent "cannot be construed as running partly
from one date and partly from another."
In the light of these principles let us examine the foreign patents relied upon. Special stress is given to German patent
No. 53,622 to Berliner, and it is contended that it expired before
this suit was brought, and that the patent in suit expired with
it. The patent refers to two others in which, it is said, there is
described an apparatus for the recording of sound, and that "the
present invention [that coveFed by the patent] relates to the
instrument in the part of the apparatus performing the reproduction." The instrument is exhibited by a drawing and is
specifically described. Petitioner says that that instrument
covered the most important part of the Berliner. gramophofie,
and that Berliner in his Franklin Institute lecture specifically
stated that of the three principal features of the improvement
of the patent in*suit the reproducer formed one. But granting
that he did say so, and that it is so, the inquiry yet remains,
is it identical with the invention of claim 5, or claim 35 of the
patent in suit? It is not of claim 5, for that is for a method, and
a method is independent of the instruments employed to perform
it. It 'is not of claim 35, for that claim is for a combination,
and one element is not the combination. Indeed, all of the
elements are not. To be that-to be identical with the invention of the combination--they must be united by the same
operative law. Of course, an element is a part, an essential
part of the combination, and enters as an operative agent in
the performance of its functions. But this does not make it
identical with the combination. It may be novel, patentable
of itself, subject to its own special monopoly, or it may be free
for everybody's use, but whether free or not free, free when the
combination was formed (invented) or became free, it is not
identical with the combination. It follows, therefore, that the
expiration of the German patent No. 53,622 for the reproducer
did not affect the duration of the patent in suit so far as claims
5 and 35 are concerned, even though such reproducer is made
the subject of one of the claims of the patent in suit. To some

LEEDS & CATLIN v. VICTOR TALKING MACH. CO. 321
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

extent these remarks are applicable to all the foreign patents
relied on by petitioner.
In the French patent No. 207,090, granted to Berliner, the
claims cover a recorder as well as a reproducer of sound. They
are practically the same instrument, and are denominated respectively in the patent as a recording sound box and as a reproducing sound box. As the first, to quote the patent, it is
used to "trace acoustic curves upon the surface" of a sound
record. As the second, that is as a reproducer, it reproduces
the sounds which made the "acoustic curves."
It is contended by respondent that the recorder and reproducer of the patent in suit differ in certain details of construction
and operation from the recorder and reproducer of the German
and French patents, but the Circuit Court said that that question could only be determined by expert testimony, and assumed the details to be substantially identical. We shall do
the same, and are of the opinion, for the reasons which we have
given, that the expiration of those patents, the French patent
as well as the German patent, did not carry with them the expiration of the inventions exhibited in claims 5 and 35 of the
patent in suit.
It is further contended that the patent in suit expired with
the British, French and German patents of November 8, 1887,
to Berliner. These patents, it is contended, are for the "basic
invention" covered by claims 5 and 35 of the patent in suit.
The patents are identical, and therefore we consider only the
British patent. The reasoning by which this is attempted to
be supported is somewhat circuitous. Among the publications
referred to in petitioner's answer and introduced in evidence
was one in The Electrical World for November 12, 1887, one
published in the same paper August 18, 1888, and a paper read
by Berliner before the Franklin Institute May 16, 1888. In
these publications there is description of the invention, and in
the paper read before the Franklin Institute Berliner describes
the genesis of his ideas and the ideas of others in the process of
recording and reproducing sounds. He entered into a somevoL. ccxiii-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

what detailed description of his invention, exhibited a machine
and gave an illustration of its powers, among others letting the
audience "listen to some phonaulograms," which he said he
had prepared within two weeks before in Washington. This
was urged as a public use, but the Circuit Court decided that
neither that lecture and exhibition nor the description in The
Electrical World in 1887, constituted a public use within the
meaning of the statutes. And the court also decided that the
broad claims of the patent in suit were not made a part of the
earlier application for patent No. 564,586, and that that omission, even when combined with such exhibition and publication,
was not an abandonment and forfeiture of those claims. The
Circuit Court of Appeals did not discuss those questions or express an opinion upon them, but decided that the specifications
in. the application for patent No. 564,586, issued subsequently
to the patent in suit, were broad enough to warrant the making of the claims in controversy (5 and 35) and that the second
application could fairly be considered a continuation of the
first, and antedated the alleged public use. If this be so, petitioner contends, the two patents must be treated as one patent
covering one invention, that described in No. 564,586, and,
it is further contended, that as that invention was previously
patented by the three foreign patents, the patent in suit expired
with them. The reasoning is extremely technical, and we may
adopt the answer made to it by the Circuit Court: "An examination of the drawings of the prior British patent shows
that there is omitted therefrom Figure 10 of the United States
patent No. 564,586, which was the only figure illustrating the
form of the device covered by the claims here in suit. There is
nothing either in the specifications or drawings of the said
British patent which describes, illustrates or shows the methods
or apparatus of the claims here in suit. These considerations
apply equally to said earlier German and French patents."
It would be a very strange application of § 4887 to hold that
it covers what is omitted from a foreign patent as well as what
is included in such patent. At any rate; whatever was the rul-

LEEDS & CATLIN v. VICTOR TALKING MACH. CO. 323
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ing in the prior suit, in the suit at bar the Circuit Court and the
Circuit Court of Appeals both held that the inventions of claims
5 and 35 of the patent in suit were not exhibited in the British
patent, and that is so far a question of fact, pertains so much
to evidence rather than to a construction of the patents, that
we may well remit it, as we have other questions of the kind, to
the merits of the case.
There yet remains the Suess-Canadian patent to be conside'red. It was granted to Berliner as the assignee of Suess,
and Judge Townsend, in the Circuit Court, said that the patent
disclosed and broadly claimed the invention covered by the
claims in suit, and on account of it defendant (petitioner here)
contended that Berliner thereby admitted that Suess was the
inventor of the reproducing -apparatus of those claims; that in
his application as the assignee of Suess he abandoned the l-road
claim in suit, and that as the patent covered the invention of
the patent in suit and expired in 1899, the patent in suit expired
with it. The learned judge further said:
"The evidence introduced in the original suit showed and the
court found on the Suess patent 427,279 that Suess was merely
an improver of a particular form of swinging arm device, and
some of the language used in the specifications of this SuessCanadiin patent, which, however, was not before the court in
the original suit, seems to indicate that its structure is merely
an improvement on the broad Berliner invention, and Berliner
himself afterwards applied for and obtained a Canadian patent
for the broad invention covered by the claims here in suit."
The court, however, decided that the Canadian patent in
terms described and claimed "the broad generic invention of
Berliner covered by the claims here in suit," and to establish
this quoted claims 5, 7, and 111 of the Canadian patent and
concluded that if that patent expired in 1899 the patent in suit
also expired. The court, however, decided, expressing, howIn an apparatus for reproducing sounds from a record tablet, the
combination with*a reproducer mechanism consisting of a sound-conveying tube and a diaphragm and stylus mounted at one end of the tubc;
1 5.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

ever, some hesitation, that the patent did not then expire,
statingthe rule to be, as established by the cases, that a United
States patent is limited by the term expressed in the foreign
patent and that it is not affected by any lapse or forfeiture of
any portion of the term by means of any condition subsequent.
The patent was granted for the term of eighteen years from
its date, February 11, 1893, but provides as follows:
"The partial fee required for the term of six years having
-been paid to the Commissioner of Patents, this patent shall
cease at the end of six years from date, unless at or before the*
expiration of the said term the holder thereof pay the fee required for the further term or terms as provided by law."
And it appears that the fee for the second term of six years
was not paid, and that because of such non-payment the patent
expired February 11, 1899. The contention of petitioner is,
as has been seen, that the patent in suit expired at the same date
by virtue of § 4887, Revised Statutes. The necessary effect
of that section, it is contended by petitioner, being that if by
any act of omission of the patentee the invention becomes free
in a foreign country it becomes free in this country. The contention of the respondent is that the domestic patent endures
for' the longest possible term of the foreign patent. In other
words, endures for the period expressed in the grant, and is
not dependent upon or "subject to be terminated by the occurrence or non-concurrence by certain facts which would require
extraneous proof." These opposing contentions are discussed
at great length by counsel and a number of cases are cited.
of a freely swinging supporting frame for the said producer mechanism,
substantially as described.
7. In an apparatus for reproducing sounds from a record tablet,
the combination with a reproducer mechanism consisting of a soundconveyer, and a diaphragm and stylus mounted at one ehd thereof;
of a supporting frame for the said reproducer, loosely pivoted to swing
freely both laterally and vertically, substantially as described.
11. In an apparatus for reproducing sounds from a rotating record
tablet, a reproducing stylus mounted to have a free movement over the
surface of the record tablet, substantially as described.

LEEDS & CATLIN v. VICTOR TALK. MACH. (NO. 2). 325
213 U.S.

Syllabus.

We omit, however, the consideration of the cases and comment upon the arguments based upon them, as we think the
questions involved are determined by Pohl v. Anchor Brewing
Co., 134 U. S. 381. It is there decided that "the statute manifestly assumes that the patent previously granted in a foreign
country is one granted for a definite term; and its meaning is
that the United States patent shall be so limited as to expire
at the same time with such term of the foreign patent." And
it is further said that the duration of the United States patent
is not "limited by any lapsing or forfeiture of any portion of
the term of such foreign patent by means of the operation of a
condition subsequent, according to the foreign patent."
From these views it follows that there was no abuse of discretion in granting the preliminary injunction, and the decree is

Affirmed.

LEEDS & CATLIN COMPANY v. VICTOR TALKING
MACHINE COMPANY (NO. 2).
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.

No. 81. Argued January 18, 1909.-Decided April 19, 1909.
Leeds & Catlin Co. v. Victor Talking Machine Co., ante, p. 301, followed
as to validity of Berliner patent for talking machines.
There is a distinction between the article which a combination machine
deals with and the constituent elements composing the combination;
and while it may not be infringement to supply the unpatented article
dealt with by the combination, it is infringement to make and supply
an unpatented element, necessary for the operation of the combination. Morgan Envelope Co. v. Albany Paper Co., 152 U. S. 425, distinguished.
The combination itself, regardless of whether any or all of the elements
be old or new, is the invention and, in law, is as much a unit as a single
or non-composite instrument and one using or contributing to its use
without permission infringes it.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Petitioner.

213 U. S.

Whether the elements of a combination patent are or are not patented
is immaterial.
Where an element of a combination becomes unfit by deterioration there
is a destruction of the combination and a renewal of that element
amounts to reconstruction.
The right of substitution or resupply of elements of a combination extends only to repair and replacement made necessary by deterioration
so as to preserve its fitness; license goes no further and does not extend to furnishing such elements to increase effectiveness or variety of
the results of the combination.
Unpatented elements of a patented combination may not be sold for use
therewith .although they may legally be sold for use with other machines, and so held that it was infringement to sell record discs specially adapted therefor to the users of a patented talking machine
although such discs were not patented and could lawfully be used in
combination with other talking machines.
150 Fed. Rep. 147; 154 Fed. Rep. 58, affirmed.
THE iacts are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Louis Hicks for petitioner:
The sound record is a temporary element of the combination
forming the machine of the patent in suit and it is intended that
the sound record shall frequently be replaced. The machine
has no other use. It is well settled law that purchasers of such
combinations from the patentee or his licensees have the right
to replace such temporary parts, and that any manufacturer
has the right to sell such parts to such purchasers for such purpose. The courts below, therefore, erred in holding that defendant violated the injunction by selling records with the
intent that the same should be used in combination with the

other elements of claim 35, in machines sold by complainants
or their licensees combined with such records. Morgan Envelope Co. v. Albany PaperCo., 40 Fed. Rep. 577; S. C.: 152 U. S.
425.
The Circuit Court of Appeals, following the decisions of this
court, has held that the purchaser of a patented combination
has the legal right immediately to substitute for an important
or essential element of the combination one which he conceives

LEEDS & CATLIN v. VICTOR TALK. MACH. (NO. 2). 327
213 U. S.

Argument for Petitioner.

to be better suited to his purposes, even though such element
was intended to.be permanent; and that any one has an equal
right to make and sell such elements to such purchaser for such
purpose. Thomson-Houston Electric Co. v. Kelsey Co., 75 Fed.
Rep. 1005. See also Chaffee v. Belting Co., 22 How. 217; Wilson v. Simpson, 9 How. 109; Mitchell v. Hawley, 16 Wall. 544,
548; Adams v. Burke, 17 Wall. 453, 456; Edison Light Co. v.
PeninsularCo., 101 Fed. Rep. 831, 835, 837.
No question of contributory infringement is here involved.
Judge Shipman's decision in Am. Graph. Co. v. Leeds, 87 Fed.
Rep. 873, cited by the Circuit Court, bears no analogy to the
case at bar. Judge Grosseup's opinion in Am. Graph. Co. v.
Amet, 74 Fed. Rep. 789, supports petitioner's contentions.
Complainants and their licensees having sold the combination of the patent to purchasers without restriction as to the
records to be used to replace those purchased, it is well settled
law that defendant has the right to sell records to such purchasers for use in replacing records purchased with machines
from complainants and their licensees. Heaton Co. v. Eureka
Co., 77 Fed. Rep. 288; Cortelyou v. Johnson, 207 U. S. 196;
Keeler v. Folding Bed Co., 157 U. S. 659, 666; Hobbie v. Jennison, 149 U. S. 355; Adams v. Burke, 17 Wall. 453; Bement v.
Harrow Co., 186 U. S. 70; Hartell v. Tilghman, 99 U. S. 547;
Bobbs-Merrill Co. v. Strauss, 210 U. S. 339.
Defendant's disc sound-records are unpatented articles of
commerce of the prior art, which defendant could legally sell for
use in the United States on mechanical feed-device machines,
for export to foreign countries, concededly for repair of machines sold by complainants, and for other lawful purposes.
There is no authority holding a party liable as an infringer
solely because an article sold by him might be, or was, in fact,
used by the purchaser as one element of a patented combination. The tendency of the later decisions is to do away with
unwarrantable restrictions upon trade. Bullock Co. v. Westinghouse Co., 129 Fed. Rep. 105, 111; Cortelyou v. Johnson, 145
Fed. Rep. 933; Snyder v. Bunnell, 29 Fed. Rep. 47, 48; Standard

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Petitioner.

213 U. S.

Co. v. Computing Co., 126 Fed. Rep. 639; Canda v. Michigan
Co., 124 Fed. Rep. 486.
Complainants and their licensees, by selling the sound reproducing apparatus of claim 35 of the patent in suit, impliedly
licensed the purchaser thereof to combine a suitable record
therewith, in every case where the apparatus was sold without
a sound-record combined therewith, and for that purpose to
purchase such a record from persons other than complainants
or their licensees. Morgan Envelope Co. v. Albany Paper Co.,
152 U. S. 425, 432; Heaton Co. v. Eureka Co., 77 Fed. Rep. 288,
300; Edison El. Co. v. Peninsular Co., 101 Fed. Rep. 831,
836; Thomson-Houston Co. v. Illinois Co., 152 Fed. Rep. 631;
Roosevelt v. Western El. Co., 20 Fed. Rep. 724.
The finding of the Circuit Court places an intolerable burden
upon the defendant's conceded, right to make and sell the unpatented sound-records of the prior art. Thomson-Houston Co.
v. Kelsey Co., 75 Fed. Rep. 1005; Cortelyou v. Johnson, 207
U. S. 196.
The question raised in the Circuit Court upon the motion to
punish defendant for contempt was an entirely new question.
The act for which defendant was held to be in contempt was not
included in the preliminary injunction or the decree therefor.
Under such circumstances the. motion should have been denied
and complainants left to raise the question by appropriate
proceedings other than a motion to punish for contempt. Enterprise Co. v. Sargent, 48 Fed. Rep. 453, 454; Bate v. Eastman,
11 Fed. Rep. 902 (Blatchford, C. J.); Allis v. Stowell, 15 Fed.
Rep. 242, 244 (Dyer, J.); Temple Pump Co. v. Ooss Co., 31 Fed.
Rep. 292 (Blodgett, J.); Truax v. Detweiller, 46 Fed. Rep. 117
(Lacombe, C. J.); Bonsack Mach. Co. v. National Co., 64 Fed.
Rep. 858 (Lacombe, C. J.); United States Co. v. Spalding, 93
Fed. Rep. 822 (Wheeler, D. J.).
Complainants presented no proof whatever that the soundrecords sold by defendant were in a single instance used or intended to be used in any infringement of the claims in suit; no
proof whatever that the sound-records sold by defendant were

LEEDS & CATLIN v.VICTOR TALK. MACH. (NO. 2). 329
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

used for the reproduction of sound on any machine of any construction. The mere making and selling of an unpatented
article is not an infringement of a claim for a combination of
which that article is an element.
The record in the contempt proceedings includes the record
in the injunction proceedings. The patent in suit having expired before the suit was begun, the Circuit Court was without
jurisdiction to entertain the suit. The claims in suit, moreover,
are void. Hence the judgment finding defendant in contempt
was void, because beyond the jurisdiction of the court, and
should be set aside, because, the claims being void, the injunction was improperly granted.
Mr. Horace Pettit for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the court.

This writ was issued to bring up for review the judgment of
the Circuit Court, affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals,
adjudging petitioner guilty of contempt of court for violating
the injunction which has just been considered in No. 80, and
to pay a fine of $1,000, one-half to the United States and onehalf to complainants in the suit, respondents here.
The injunction, as we said in the opinion in No. 80, enjoined
petitioner, the Leeds & Catlin Company, from manufacturing,
using or selling the method expressed in claim 5 of letters patent No. 534,543 to Emil Berliner, dated February 19, 1895, or
the apparatus covered by claim 35.
On the fifteenth of November, .1906, respondent, Victor
Talking Machine Company, filed a petition in the Circuit Court,
charging petitioner with a violation of such injunction. A rule
was issued against the Leeds & Catlin Company to show cause
why an attachment should not issue against it for contempt of
court for violatin& the injunction, which came on to be heard
upon supporting and opposing affidavits and the answer of the
Leeds & Catlin Company.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

A judgment was entered adjudging the Leeds & Catlin Company guilty of contempt, which was affirmed by the Circuit
Court of Appeals. 150 Fed. Rep. 147; 154 Fed. Rep. 58.
The answer of petitioner referred to the record in No. 80,
and in this court it is stipulated that that record shall be used
as part of the record in the pending cases, and certain of the
defenses there made are repeated here. For instance, it is contended, and the record in No. 80 is adduced to support the
contention, that (1) the -patent in suit having expired before
the suit was begun, the Circuit Court was without jurisdiction
to entertain the suit; (2) claims in suit being for the functions
of a machine are void. And it is further contended that "hence
the judgment finding defendant [petitioner] in contempt (a)
was void, because beyond the jurisdiction of the court; and (b)
should be set aside, because the claims being void the injunction was improperly granted." These contentions are disposed
of by the opinion in No. 80, and we may confine our discussions
to the other defenses made in the contempt proceedings.
The facts are practically undisputed, and a detail of them is
unnecessary. It is enough to say that petitioner is a manufacturer of disc records, such as are described in No. 80. That
is, a record upon which is inscribed a lateral undulating groove
of even depth, which, when the disc is revolved, compels the
reproducing stylus to be vibrated and propelled across its face.
It will be observed how important the record is to the invention embodied in the claims. It is the undulations in the
side walls of the spiral groove which vibrate the stylus back
and forth, transmitting the recorded sound waves to the diaphragm, at the same time propelling the stylus as it engages
with the record. If a comparison may be made between the
importance of the elements, as high a degree (if not a higher
degree) must be awarded to the disc with its lateral u1dulations
as to the stylus. It is the disc that serves to distinguish the invention-to mark the advance upon the prior art. "As to the
reproducing stylus," as is said by respondent, "it is only necessary that it should be shaped for engagement with the record

LEEDS & CATLIN v. VICTOR TALK. MACH. (NO. 2). 331
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and so positioned and supported as to be free to be vibrated
and propelled by the record."
The lower courts found that most of the sales (we quote from
the opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals) of the records by
petitioner "were knowingly made to enable the owners of the
Victor Talking Machines to reproduce such musical pieces as
they wished by the combination of the Leeds & Catlin record
with said machines; and that the Leeds & Catlin Company made
no effort to restrict the use to which their records might be put
until after motion to punish for contempt had been made; that
the only effort at such restriction ever made was to answer
upon the face of the record and notice to the effect that such
record was intended and sold for use with the 'feed-device
machine;' that the records sold by plaintiff in error [petitioner] were far more frequently bought to increase the repertoire of the purchaser's Victor machine than to replace worn-out
or broken records." The "feed-device machine" referred to
by the court was a talking machine bought by petitioner after,
as petitioner avers, the Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the
injunction, and in connection with which it sold, as it also avers,
and used, its sound records. The court assumed, for the purpose of the cause, that the feed-device machine might be regarded as not infringing any of the rights of the Victor Company
under the Berliner patent. The court further found that it was
established by the evidence that the discs were equally suitable for that machine as for the machine of the Victor Company,
but that it "was not at or before the time of beginning this
proceeding a practically or commercially known reproducer of
musical or spoken sound, whereas the Victor machine, embodying the claims of the Berliner patent here under consideration,
was at such times widely known and generally used, and that
the plaintiff in error [petitioner] knew, and sold its records with
the knowledge, that if its output was to be used at all by the
public it would be used, with the Victor machine, and in the
combination protected by the claims of the Berliner patent, before referred to." And the court concluded that upon these

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

.213 U. S.

facts it was clear'that petitioner had "made and sold a single
element of the claims of the Berliner patent, with the intent
that it should be united to the other elements and complete the
combination. And this is infringement. Heaton PeninsulaCo.,
v. Eureka Co., 77 Fed. Rep. 297; adopted by this court, Courtelyou v. Lowe, 111 Fed. Rep. 1005."
Petitioner contests the conclusion and opposes it by the principle, which, it is contended, is established by cases in this
court, as well as at circuit, that "the person who has purchased
a patented combination from the patentee has the right to replace an unpatented element of the combination and for such
purpose to purchase such element from another than the patentee or his licensee." 'To bring this principle in clear relief it
is said that "the majority of the Circuit Court of Appeals has
held that such replacement of a single unpatented element of
the combination is reconstruction and not within the rights of
the purchaser of the patented combination from the patentee."
And, to complete its argument, petitioner adds that where an
inventor so arranges the parts of his patented combination
that it cannot satisfactorily, successfully or usefully be continued in use, without successive replacements of one of its
elements, "the replacement of such element, if unpatented, by
the purchaser of the combination from the patentee is in accordance with the intention of the patentee and not a reconstruction
of the patented combination, but an act within the. rights of
the purchaser." For these principles Morgan Envelope Co. v.
Albany Paper-Co., 152 U. S. 425; Wilson v. Simpson, 9 How.
109; Goodyear Co. v. Jackson, 112 Fed. Rep. 146, are adduced.
The question in the case, therefore, is single and direct, and
its discussion may be brought to a narrow compass. Its solution depends upon the application of some rudimentary principles of patent law.
A combination is a composition of elements, some of which
may be old and others new, or all old or all new. It is, however,
the combination that is the invention, and is as much a unit in
contemplation of law as a single or non-composite instrument.

LEEDS & CATLIN v. VICTOR TALK. MACH. (NO. 2). 333
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Whoever uses it without permission is an infringer of it. Whoever contributes to such use is an infringer of it. It may be
well here to get rid of a misleading consideration. It can make
no difference as to the infringement or non-infringement of a
combination that one of its elements or all of its elements are
unpatented. For instance, in the case at bar the issue between
the parties would be exactly the same, even if the record disc
were a patented article which petitioner had a license to use or
to which respondent had no rights independent of his right to
its use in the combination. In other words, the fact that the
disc sold by petitioner is unpatented does not affect the question involved except to give an appearance of a limitation of
the rights of an owner of a Victor machine other than those
which attach to him as a purchaser. The question is, What is
the relation of the purchaser to the Victor Company? What
rights does he derive from it? To use the machine, of course,
but it is the concession of the argument of petitioner that he
may not reconstruct it. Has he a license to repair deterioration,
and when does repair become reconstruction? It would seem
that on principle when deterioration of an element has reached
the point of unfitness there is a destruction of the combination
and a renewal of the element is a reconstruction of the combination.- And it would also seem on principle that there could
be no license implied from difference in 4he durability of the
elements or periodicity in their use. This, however, is asserted,
and we come to the consideration of the cases upon which the
assertion is based, and how far it has application under the
facts of this record.
Great stress is put upon Morgan Envelope Co. v. Albany Co.,
supra. That case was a bill in equiby for the infringement of
three letters patent, one for a "package of toilet paper," known
as an "oval roll" or "oval king" package; one for a "toilet
paper fixture," and one for an "apparatus for holding toilet
paper." The first patent was declared invalid for want of novelty. Of the other two it. was said that they were. practically
the same and were for a "combination of the paper roll de-,

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

scribed in the former patent, with a mechanism for the delivery
of the paper to the user in an economical manner." It was
conceded that the mechanism of the patents involved patentable novelty, but it was contended that it being constructed
for. the purpose of delivering paper to users in convenient length
such a roll was not a proper part of the combination, and that,
conceding it was a part of the combination, there was no infringement. The first contention, the court said, raised the
,question whether; when a machine is designed to manufacture,
,distribute or serve out to users a certain article, the article so
dealt with can be said to be a part of the combination of which
the machine itself is another part. In commenting on the question the court expressed the view that if the contention could
be sustained "it would seem to follow that the log which is
sawn in the mill, the wheat which is ground by rollers, the pin
which is produced by the patented machine, the paper which
is folded and delivered by the printing press," might be claimed
as an element of a combination. The court, however, refrained
from expressing an opinion upon the point, because it conceived that the facts of the case failed to sustain the charge of
infringement. And this on the ground that the defendants
in the suit had neither made, sold nor used the patented mechanism, except as they purchased it from the patentee, and the only
acts proven against them were that they sold rolls of paper of
their own manufacture with fixtures ma.nufactured and sold by,
the plaintiff, the fixtures having been obtained by defendants
from the original purchasers of the patented combination; and
also of selling oval rolls of paper of their own manufacture to
persons who had previously purchased fixtures and paper from
the plaintiff, with the knowledge and information that the
paper so sold was to be used in connection with plaintiff's fixtures. The court stated the question to be whether, considering
the combination of the oval roll with the fixture to be a valid
combination, the sale of one element of such (italic ours) a
combination with the intention that it should be used with the
other elements was an infringement. The answer was in the

LEEDS & CATLIN. v.VICTOR TALK. MACH. (NO: 2). 335
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

negative. The court, however, stated, that there were cases
to the effect that the sale of one element of a combination with
.intention that it should be used with another was an infringement, but decided that they had no application to one where
the element made by the alleged infringer was "an article of
manufacture, perishable in its nature, which it is the object of
the mechanism to deliver, and must be renewed periodically
whenever the device is put to use.". The case, therefore, is not
a precedent for the decision of that' at bar. Not one of the determining factors there stated exists in the case at bar. If the
operative relation of the paper roll to the mechanism was as
illustrated (and the court left no doubt that it was), that is,
of the log tb the saw in the mill, Wheat to the rollers Which grind
it, pins which are produced by a patent machine; in other words,
in no more operative relation than a machine and its product
are, the invalidity of the combination was hardly questionable.
And, besides, it was made a determining circumstance that the
paper perished by its use, and a periodical renewal was indicated to be a renewal "whenever the device was put to use."
The case has no principle or reasoning applicable to the case at
bar. The combination in the case at bar is valid, as we have
unhesitatingly declared. The function it performs is the result
of the joint action of the disc and the stylus. The disc is not a
mere concomitant to the stylus; it co-acts with the stylus to
produce the-result. Indeed, as we have seen, it is the distinction of the invention, constituting, by its laterally undulating
line of even depth and the effect thereof, the advance upon the
prior art. To confound its active co6peration with the mere
pwivity of' the paper in the mechanism described in the Morgan Envelope Company case is not only to confound essential distinctions made by the patent laws, but essential distinctions
between entirely different things. Besides, the*-lower courts
found that the discs were not perishable. As said by the Court
of Appeals, by Judge Hough: "Disc records are fragile, i. e., brittle and easily broken; but they are not perishable, i. e., subject
to decay by their inherent qualities, or consumed by fcw uses.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

or a single use. Neither are they temporary, i. e., not intended
to endure; on the contrary, we find that they are capable of
remaining useful for an indefinite period, and believe they
usually last as long as does the vogue of the sounds they record."
Can petitioner find justification under the right of repair and
replacement as described in Wilson v. Simpson, 9 How. 109, and
Chaffee v. Boston Belting Co., 22 How. 217? The Court of. Appeals, in passing on these cases, .considered that there was no essential difference between the meaning of the words "repair" and
"replacement." That they both meant restoration of worn-out
parts. This distinction was recognized in Wilson v. Simpson,
supra,where it is said that the language of the court in Wilson's
and Roussan's Case, 4 How. 709, did not permit the assignee of
a patent to make other machines or reconstruct them in gross
upon the frame of machines which the assignee had in use, "but
it does comprehend and permit the resupply of the effective
ultimate tool of the invention, which is liable to be often
worn out or to become inoperative for its intended effect,
which the inventor contemplated would have to be frequently
replaced anew, during the time that the machine as a whole
might last." But there is no pretense in the case at bar of
mending broken or worn-out records, or of repairing or replacing
"the operative ultimate tool of the invention" which has deteriorated by use. The sales of petitioner, as found by the
courts below, and as established by the evidence, were not to
furnish new records identical with those originally offered by
the Victor Company, but, to use the language of Judge. Lacombe in the Circuit Court, "more frequently in order to'increase the repertory of tunes than as substituted for worn-out
records."
The right of substitution or "resupply" of an element depends upon the same test. The license granted to a purchaser
of a patented combination is to preserve its fitness for use so
far as it may be affected by wear or breakage. Beyond this
there is no license.
It is further contended by petitioner that the disc records,

LEEDS & CATLIN v. VICTOR TALK. MACH. (NO. 2). 337
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

being unpatented articles of commerce which could be used
upon the mechanical feed device machine or exported to foreign countries, or concededly for repair of machines sold by
respondent, petitioner could legally sell the same. A detailed
comment on this contention or of the cases cited to support it
we need not make. The facts of the case exclude petitioner
from the situation which is the foundation of the contention.
The injunction did not forbid the use of the records, except in
violation of claims 5 and 35 of respondent's patent. The judgment for contempt was based upon the facts which we have
detailed and they show a sale of the records for use in the Victor
machine, "an entirely voluntary and intentional" (to use the
language of Judge Lacombe) contributory infringement.
We have seen that the Circuit Court of Appeals assumed, for
the purposes of this cause, that the feed device machine was not
an infringement of the machine of the patent. We may assume
the same, and we are relieved from reviewing the very long and
complex affidavits submitted by the petitioner to explain the
same, petitioner's relation to it or its position in the art of
sound reproduction. Petitioner .was found, guilty of selling
records which constituted an element in the combination of the
patent in suit, and for that petitioner was punished. Upon,
whatever questions or contentibns may arise from the use of the
feed device machine we reserve opinion.
We have not reviewed or commented upon the other cases
cited respectively by petitioner and respondents in support of
their contentions, deeming those we have considered and the
principles we have announced sufficient for our decision.
Judgment affirmed.

.vo.

CXfIII-22

