OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

213 U. S.

The above-entitled cases raise the
in Louisville and Nashville Railthat
is
decided
same question
road Company, supra, and, upon its authority, the decrees in
the above cases are
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE PECKHAM.

SELLIGER v. COMMONWEALTH OF KENTUCKY, BY
-ALEXANDER, REVENUE AGENT.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF KENTUCKY.

No. 115.

Argued March 16, 17, 1909.-Decided April 5, 1909.

Where there is nothing in the record on which to base them this court
cannot indulge in preiumptions as to which of several possible forms
a transaction may have taken.
Where goods are exempt from the taxing power of the State under the
Constitution of the United States because.not within the State, the
protection of the Constitution extends to warehouse receipts for those
goods locally pretent within the State; and this rule applied to whiskey in a foreign country, warehouse receipts for which were held by
a person in Kentucky and sought to be taxed as personal property
at owner's domicil.
A tax upon warehouse receipts for goods amounts in substance and
effect to a tax upon the goods themselves. Fairbankv. United States,
181 U. S. 283.

The facts are stated in 'the opinion.
Mr. Alexander Pope Humphrey and Mr. John L. Dodd, with
whom Mr. Joseph C. Dodd was on the brief, for plaintiff in error:
The tax in question violates § 10, Art. I, of the C;1stitution
of the United States prohibiting a State from laying any tax
upon exports. Brown v. Maryland, 12 Wheat. 419; The
License Cases, 5 How. 575; Almy v. California, 24 How. 169;
Low v. Austin, 13 Wall. 29; May v. New Orleans, 178 U. S.
504, distinguished.

SELLIGER v. KENTUCKY.
213 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

The tax here attempted to be levied is in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States.
Personal property having an actual situs beyond the territorial
boundary of a State cannot be taxed by that State. LouisVille
& Jeffersonville Ferry Co. v. Kentucky, 188 U. S. 385; Delaware
R. R. Co. v. Pennsylvania, 198 U. S. 341; Union Refrigerator
Transit Co. v. Kentucky, 199 U. S. 194; Ayer & Lord Tie Co.
v. Kentucky, 202 U. S. 409.
A warehouse receipt is nothing more or less than a document
of title, and has always been so treated. One of its uses is as
a means by which delivery can be made of an article of personal property which has been sold. 2 Benj. on Sales, 1043;
10 A. & E. Ency. of Law, 1; Gibson v. Stevens, 8 How. 399,
400; Leonard v. Davis, 1 Black, 482, 483; Holliday v. Hamilton, 11 Wall. 564, 565; The Thames, 14 Wall. 106; Crapo v.
Kelly, 16 Wall. 640; Insurance Co. v. Kiger, 103 U. S. 556;
Union Trust Co. v. Wilson, 198 U. S. 538, 539.
The German warehouse receipts are merely evidence that a
given amount of whiskey has been stored there. It is the whiskey, which the receipts are given as evidence of, that has actual
value, and the receipts cannot be taxed because to do so would
be in effect to tax the whiskey, which, confessedly, is beyond
the reach of the taxing power of Kentucky. See Almy v. California, 24 How. 169; Tremlett v. Adams, 13 How. 303; Pollock
v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co., 157 U. S. 581; Postal Tel: Co. v.
Adams, 155 U. S. 698; Dobbins v. Commissioners, 16 Pet. 435;
Railroad Co. v. Jackson, 7 Wall. 262; Cook v. Pennsylvania,97
U. S. 566; Steamship Co. :v. Pennsylvania, 122 U. S. 326; Leloup v. Mobile, 127 U. S. 640.
Mr. M. J. Holt, with whom Mr. B. F. Washer was on the
brief, for defendant in error:
If the 7,000 barrels of whiskey were exported temporarily,
that is, to await a better market and to be re-imported when the
price justified, or to evade for the time being the revenue tax
of ninety cents per gallon, the taxable situs is in Kentucky, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

213 U. S.

place of residence of the owner. Union Transit Co. v. Kentucky, 199 U. S. 194; Board &c. v. Fidelity Trust Co., 111 Kentucky, 667; May v. New Orleans, 178 U. S. 507; Kentucky
Const., §§ 172, 174; Kentucky Stat., § 4020.
If the whiskey, by reason of its exportation and actual situs
in Germany, is exempt from a state ad valorem tax, then the
warehouse receipts are taxable.
Whiskey warehouse receipts are intangible property, the
situs of which is at the domicil of the owner. They are property
in and of themselves, and are not mere indicia of title.
By the common and civil law, by the law merchant, and by
express statutory provision (Ky. Stats., §4770) they are negotiable instruments. Commonwealth v. Selliger, 30 Ky. L. Rep.
452, 453; Farmerv. Ethridge, 24 Ky. L. Rep. 653; Cochran &c.
v. Ripy, 13 Bush (Ky.), 505; Greenbaum V. Meggilen, 10 Bush
(Ky.), 420; Purdy's Beach on Priv. Corp., §§ 271, 272, 509a,
350, 510; Board &c. v. Fidelity Trust Co., 111 Kentucky, 677;
30 A. & E. Ency. Law, pp. 69-77 , Winslow v. Fletcher, 52 Am.
Rep. 122; Wilkesbarre &c. v. Wilkesbarre, 148 Pa. St. 601;
Whitaker v. Brooks, 90 Kentucky, 76; Knox v. Eden, 148 N. Y.
441; Columbus &c. v. Wright, 151 U. S. 470
The provision of the Federal Constitution, Art. I, § 10, Subs.
2, "that no State shall lay an impost or duties on imports or
exports," does not apply to the levy of an ad valorem tax on this
whiskey or the warehouse receipts as the property of plaintiff
in error, because: It is a tax levied upon the property of all
citizens of this State, wherever situated. It is not an impost
or duty.
The whiskey has lost the character of an export, the original
shipment has been broken, four-fifths of it have been sold, the
consignor and consignee are one and the same, and the residue
is on the market and for sale. May v. New Orleans, 178 U. S.
501, 509 (import case); Coe v. Errol, 116 U. S. 517 (export case);
Turpin v. Burgess, 117 U. S. 506, 507 (export case); American
Steel Co. v. Speed, 114 U. S. 510, 519.
No Federal question is involved. McCullough v. Maryland,

SELLIGER v. KENTUCKY.
213 U. S.

. 203

Opinion of the Court.

4 Wheat. 316, 418, 428, 429; Burke v. Wells, 208 U. S. 22-25;
Union Pac. Ry. Co. v Peniston, 18 Wall. 5; Lewis v. Monson,
151 U. S. 549; Home Ins. Co. v. New York, 134 U. S. 600;
Delaware R. R. Tax Case, 18 Wall. 206, 231; Coe v. Errol, 116
U. S. 524; Saving Society v. Multnomah County, 169 U. S. 426,
427, 431; Kirtland v. Hotchkiss, 105 U. S. 498; Bank U. S. v.
Huth, 4 B. Mon. (Ky.) 443; New Orleans v. Stempel, 105 U. S.
320.
MR.JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a proceeding to recover back-taxes on personal property of the plaintiff in error, hereafter called the defendant.
He pleaded that he did own certain barrels of whiskey which
he did not list for the years in question, but that he had exported them to Bremen and Hamburg, in Germany, for sale
abroad, and that the State was forbidden to tax them, both
because they were exports, U. S. Const., Art. I, § 10, and
because their permanent situs was outside the State. Fourteenth Amendment. Delaware, Lackawanna & Western R. R.
Co. v. Pennsylvania, 198 U, S. 341. Union RefrigeratorTransit
Co. v. Kentucky, 199 U. S.194. The plaintiff replied, denying
that the export was for sale and that the situs of the whiskey
was abroad. It alleged that the defendant was a citizen and
resident of Kentucky, engaged there in the wholesale whiskey
business, and that he shipped the whiskey to Germany merely
to evade revenue and ad valorem taxes on the same. It alleged
further that the defendant remained the owner and in possession of the whiskey, except such portion as he reshipped to
himself or to purchasers in the United States, that while the
whiskey remained in the German warehouses he held the warehouse receipts, used them as collaterals and traded in them,
and that the barrels of whiskey sold by him were mostly returned to the State of Kentucky, and all to the United States.,
The court of first instance held that the whiskey was exempt
on both the grounds taken by the defendant. On appeal to the
state circuit court for the county, the judgment was affirmed

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

on the ground that the situs of the whiskey was outside the
State. A further appeal was taken to the Court of Appeals,
and that court, accepting the fact that the whiskey was beyond
the taxing power of Kentucky, nevertheless sustained the tax
as a tax on the warehouse receipts. The case then was brought
by writ of error to this court.
We think that we have stated the effect of the pleadings
fairly, and'it will be observed that the plaintiff's claim was of a
right to tax the whiskeyj the warehouse receipts being ment6ed only to .corroborate the plaintiff's contention as to the
true domicil of the goods. After the decision, the amount of.
whiskey for which the defendant held German warehouse receirts at the material times and the value of the whiskey were
agreed, and thereupon the court, reciting the agreement, directed a judgment for taxes due upon the warehouse receipts,
valuing them at the agreed value "per barrel of whiskey embraced in them." So that it will be seen that the effect is the
same as if the whiskey itself had been taxed, and the question
is'whether, by such a dislocation of the documents from the
things they represent, a second property of equal value is cre-.
ated for taxing purposes, which can be reached.although the
first could nQt. Possibilities similar in economic principle sometimes have to be, or at least have been, recognized, but dif course,
economically speaking, they are absurd.
We are dealfig with German receipts, and therefore we are
not called'upon ,to consider the effect of statutes purporting
to make such instruments negotiable. Bonds can be taxed
where they are permanently kept, because by a notion going
.back to very early law the obligation is, or originally was, inseparable from the paper or parchment which expressed it.
Buck v. Beach, 206 U. S. 392, 403, 413. That case and the
authorities cited by it, show how far a similar notion has been
applied to negotiable bills and notes. But a warehouse receipt
does not depend upon any peculiar doctrine for its effect. A
simple receipt merely imports that goods are in the hands of a
certain kind of bailee. But if a bailee assents to becoming

SELLIGER v. KENTUCKY.
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

bailee for another to whom the owner has sold or pledged the
goods, the change satisfies the requirement of a change of possession so far as to validate the sale or pledge. Therefore it is
common for certain classes of bailees to give receipts to the
order of the bailor, and so to assent in advance to becoming
bailee for any one who is brought within the terms of the receipt by an endorsement of the same: But this does not give
the instrument the character of a symbol, it simply makes it
the means of bringing about what is somewhat inaccurately
termed a change of possession, upon ordinary legal principles,
just as if the goods had been transported to another warehouse.
Union Trust Co. v. Wilson, 198 U. S. 530, 536. If the receipt
contains no clause of assent to a transfer, it has been held that
an endorsement goes no further than a transfer and unaccepted
order on any other piece of paper. Hallgarten v. Oldham, 135
Massachusetts 1.
The form of the receipts given in Germany does not appear.
It does not appear that they contained any assent to transfer,
unless by conjecture from the defendant's testimony that he
pledged them for loans. Even that conjecture is made more
doubtful, if not excluded, by the findings of the lower courts.
It does not appear that the Court of Appeals made a different
finding if it had the power to do so. This court can make none.
There is no presumption that we know of that the transactions
took one form or had one effect rather than another.
We can think of but two ways in which the receipts could
amount to more than a mere convenience for getting quasipossession of the goods. In the first place, they might express
or imply a promise to be answerable, or carry a statutory liability, for a corresponding amount in case the property referred
to was delivered to another without a surrender of the receipts.
See Mechanics' & Traders' Ins. Co. v. Kiger, 103 U. S. 352.
Such a promise might have a distinct value if the promisor had
credit. But it cannot be assumed on this record that the receipts contained it, and if they did, even then the value of the
instrument would be due rather to the assufmption that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

bailee would not give up the goods without a return of it than to
the promise. The value of the promise would vary with the
promisor. As a key to the goods a receipt no more can be called
a second property of equal value than could a key to an adamantine safe that could not be opened without it be called a
second property of a value distinct from but equal to that of
the money that the safe contained. The receipt, like the key,
would be property of some small value distinct from that to
which it gave access. But it would not be a counterpart, doubling the riches of the owner of the goods.
In the second place, the receipt might be made the representative of the goods in a practical sense. A statute might ordain
that a sale and delivery of the goods to a purchaser without
notice should be invalid as against a subsequent bona fide purchaser of the receipt. We need not speculate as to how the law
would deal with it in that event, as we have no warranit for assuming that the German law gives it such effect. On the facts
beforet us, and on any facts that the Court of Appeals can have.
had before it, the receipts cannot be taken to have been more
than one of several keys to the goods., It cannot be assumed
that a good title to the whiskey could not have been given
while the receipts were outstanding. We assume that they
made it very unlikely that it would be, but the practical probability does not make the instrument the legal equivalent of the
goods. We take it to be almost undisputed that if the warehouses were in Kentucky the State would not and could not
tax both the whiskey and the receipts, even when issued in
Kentucky form, and that it would recognize that the only takable object was the whiskey. The relation of the paper to the
goods is not-changed by their being abroad, and the only question in the case is whether the paper can be treated as property
equivalent in value to the goods, because in some way it represents them.
We state the question as we have stated it because that is
the one that is raised by the decision under review. It would
be a mere quibble to say that the receipts, as paper, had an in-

CHESAPEAKE & OHIO :RY. CO. v. McCABE.
213 U. S.

207

Syllabus.

finitesimal value, that they acquired a substantial one, although
much less than that of the whiskey, because of their practical
use, and that this court is not concerned with'a mere overvaluation.' The tax is imposed on the theory thatthe receipts are
the equivalents of the goods and are taxable on that footing, although the goods cannot be taxed. Assuming, as the Court of
Appeals assumed, that the whiskey is exempt under the Constitution of the United States, we are of opinion that the protection of the Constitution extends to warehouse receipts locally present within the State. What was said by Chief Justice
Taney about bills of lading applies to them, mutatis mutandis:
"A duty upon that is, in substance and effect, a duty on the article exported." Almy v. California, 24 How. 169; Fairbank
v. United States, 181 U. S. 283, 294. We discuss the case on
the facts assumed by the Court of Appeals. Whether a finding
would have been warranted that the whiskey still was domiciled in Kentucky, or for any other reason was not exempt, is a
matter upon which we do not pass. See New York Central &
Hudson River R. R. Co. v. Miller, 202 U. S. 584, 597.
Judgment reversed.

CHESAPEAKE AND OHIO RAILWAY COMPANY v. MCCABE, ADMINISTRATRIX.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF KENTUCKY.

No. 89. Argued January-25, 1909.-Decided April 5, 1909.
Where the case goes more than once to the highest court of the State
only the last judgment is the final one.
Where the highest court of the State reverses an order of an inferior
state court removing a cause and remands the case to the state court
for trial, and, after trial and verdict for plaintiff, the judgment is
sustained by the highest court, the last judgment is the only final one
to which the writ of error will run from this court- defendant cannot

