KEERL v. MONTANA.
213 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

remained undisturbed thereby. If there had been no bankruptcy proceedings the coal as mined was, according to the
understanding of the parties, to be delivered as already paid
for by the advancement.
We think the conclusions of the Circuit Court of Appeals are
right, and its judgment is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES concurs in the judgment.

KEERL v. STATE OF MONTANA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MONTANA.

No. 113.

Argued March 15, 1909.-Decided April 5, 1909.

Where the accused during the trial specifically claims that the action
of the state court in denying his plea of once in jeopardy operated
to deprive him of his liberty without due process of law contrary to
the Fourteenth Amendment, this court has jurisdiction under ยง 709,
Rev. Stat., to review the judgment.
Where a state court has the right to discharge the jury if it satisfactorily
appear after a reasonable time that a disagreement is probable, and
the state court so finds after the jury has been out for twenty-four
hours, and discharges the jury, the result is a mistrial and the accused
cannot on a subsequent trial interpose the plea of once in jeopardy
by reason thereof, United States v. Perez, 9 Wheat. 579; and so held
in regard to a trial in Montana where the jury had been discharged
under ยง 2125, Penal Code of that State.
Qwumre, and not.decided, whether the due process provision of the Fourteenth Amendment in itself forbids a State from putting one of its
citizens in second jeopardy.
33 Montana, 501, affirmed.
ON April 24, 1902, an information was filed in the District

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Counsel for Parties.

213 U. S.

Court of Lewis and Clark County, Montana, charging the defendant, now plaintiff in error, with the crime of murder. Upon
a trial he was found guilty of murder in the second degree and
sentenced to imprisonment for life. The judgment was reversed
by the Supreme Court and a new trial ordered. 29 Montana,
508. The record recites that on the second trial the jury retired
for deliberation on July 12, 1904, and that on July 14, 1904, they
returned into court, "whereupon it satisfactorily appearing to.
the court that there is a reasonable probability that the jury
cannot agree the court ordered the jury discharged from the
further consideration of this cause," and remanded the defendant to the custody of the sheriff. On the third trial the defendant interposed a plea of once in jeopardy, on the ground that
the jury was improperly discharged at the end of the second
trial. The Montana statute provides:
"Except as provided in the last section [a section respecting
sickness or accident] the jury cannot be discharged after the
cause is submitted to them until they have agreed upon their
verdict, and rendered it in open court, unless by consent of both
parties, entered upon the minutes, or unlebs 'at the expiration
of such time as the court may deem proper, it satisfactorily appears that there is reasonable probability that the jury cannot
agree." Section 2125, Penal Code; vol. 2, Montana Codes, p.
1061.
The court overruled the plea, and, as a result of the trial, the
defendant was found guilty of manslaughter and sntenced to
-imprisonment for the term of ten years. This judgment was
sustained by the Supreme Court. 33 Montana, 501. Thereupon the case was brought here on writ of error.
Mr. Thomas J. Walsh,. with whom Mr. Cornelius B. Nolan
was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. W. H. Poorman, with whom Mr. Albert J. Galen, Attorney General of the State of Montana, and Mr. E. M. Hall
were on the brief, for defendant in error.

KEERL v. MONTANA.
213 U. S.

MR.

Opinion of the Court.

JUSTICE BREWER

delivered the opinion of the court.

The defendant during the trial having specifically claimed
that the action of the court in denying him the benefit of the
plea of once in jeopardy operated to deprive him of his liberty
without due process of law, contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States, our jurisdiction
of the writ of error cannot be questioned. Beer Co. v. Massachusetts, 97 U. S. 25-30; Bohanan v. Nebraska, 118 U. S. 231;
Boyd v. Thayer, 143 U. S. 135-161.
On the merits, there is little room for controversy. In United
States v: Perez, 9 Wheat. 579, 580, this court passed upon the
question arising under the Fifth Amendment, whose language
is in this respect more specific than that in the Fourteenth
Amendment, the former applying to the courts of the United
States, the latter to the action of the State, and it was held:
"We think that in all cases of this,nature the law has invested
courts of justice with the authority to discharge a jury from
giving any verdict whenever, in their opinion, taking all the
circumstances into consideration, there is a manifest necessity
for the act, or the ends of public justice would otherwise be
defeated. They are to exercise a sound discretion on the subject; and it is impossible to define all the circumstances which
would render it proper to interfere. To be sure, the power
ought to be used with the greatest caution, under urgent circumstances, and for very plain and obvious causes; and, in
capital cases especially, courts should be extremely careful how
they interfere with any of the chances of life, in favor of the
prisoner. But, after all, they hav6 the right to order the discharge; and the security whi i the public have for the faithful,
sound and conscientious exercise of this discretion rests, in this
as in other cases, upon the responsibility of the judges, under
their 'oaths of office. We are aware that there is some diversity
of opinion and practice on this subject in the American courts;
but after weighing the question with due deliberation, we are
of opinion that such a discharge constitutes no bar to further

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Syllabus.

213 U. S.

proceedings, and gives no right of exemption to the prisoner
from being again put upon trial."
This has been the settled law of the Federal courts ever since
that time. Logan v. United States, 144 U. S. 263, 297; Thompson v. United States, 155 U. S.271, 274; Dreyer v. Illinois, 187
U. S. 71, 85.
Those decisions dispose of the question here presented, without considering whether the Fourteenth Amendment in itself
forbids a State from putting one of its citizens in second
jeopardy, a question which, as it is unnecessary, we do not decide. The record shows that the jury were kept out at least
twenty-four hours, and probably more, and the trial court
found that there was a reasonable probability that the jury
could not agree. This is the only Federal question, and, finding no error therein, the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Montana is

Affirmed.

KELLER v. UNITED STATES.
ULLMAN v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Nos. 653, 654.

Argued March 1, 1909.-Decided April 5, 1909.

Speaking generally, the police power is reserved to the States and there
is no grant thereof to Congress in the Constitution.
Notwithstanding the offensiveness of the crime the courts cannot sustain a Federal penal statute if the ower to punish the same has not
been delegated to Congress by the Constitution.
Where there is collision between the power of the State and that of
Congress, the superior authority of the latter prevails. While Congress
has power to exclude aliens from, and to prescribe the terms and conditions on which aliens may come into, the United States, Turner v.
Williams, 194 U. S. 279, that power does not extend to controlling

dealings with aliens after their arrival merely on account of their
alienage.

