CODER v. ARTS.
213 U. S.

Syllabus.

CODER, TRUSTEE OF ARMSTRONG, BANKRUPT, v.
ARTS.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 93. Argued January 26, 1909.-Decided April 5, 1909.
Where a creditor presents a claim to the trustee joined with a state-

ment that he has security upon the estate 'which it is his purpose to
maintain and upon which he is entitled to priority, he institutes a
proceeding in bankruptcy as distinguished from a controversy aris-ing in the course of bankruptcy proceedings and an appeal lies to
the Circuit Court of Appeals under § 255, and the party aggrieved is
not limited by §.24b to a petition for revision; and an appeal also lies
to this court, under the rules prescribed by it, if the amount involved
exceeds $2,006 and the question involved is one which gives jurisdiction to this court to review judgments of the state courts under
§ 709, Rev. Stat., or if a certificate of a justice of this court is made as
required by par. 2 of subd. b of § 25.
General Order of this court, No. 36 in bankruptcy, which requires an
appeal from a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals to be taken
within thirty days, and that the court from which the appeal lies to
make findings of fact and conclusions of law within thirty days held
to be complied with by the Circuit Court of Appeals making findings
within such thirty days, and directing them to be filed nunc pro tunc
as of the day of entry of judgment, the appeal having also been taken
within thirty days from such day of entry.
Where the claimant against a bankrupt's estate asserts a lien which
would be defeated under the construction placed upon the bankruptcy act by the trustee, and the lien is allowed, a Federal question
is involved, which if involved in a case in the state court would give
this ccurt jurisdiction to review the judgment under § 709, Rev. Stat.,
and the case is appealable from the Circuit Court of Appeals to this
court under § 25b of the tankruptcy act.
On appeals from the Circuit Court of Appeals under § 25b this court,
under par. 3 of General Orders in Bankruptcy No. 36, can only look
st the facts found by the Circuit Court of Appeals.
An attempt to prefer is not necessarily an attempt to defraud, nor is a

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Appellant.

213 U. S.

preferential transfer always a fraudulent one. The question of
fraud depends upon the motive, and in order to invalidate a conveyance as one made to hinder, delay or defraud creditors within the
meaning of § 67e of the bankruptcy act actual fraud must be
shown.
In this case a mortgage given within four months of filing the petition to secure advances and while the mortgagee did not know of
the mortgagor's insolvency, although the latter did, and which mortgage was found not to have been made with intent to hinder, delay or
defraud creditors, held not to be voidable under § 67e of the bankruptcy law and that the mortgagee was entitled to priority thereon
with interest.
152 Fed. Rep. 943, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the construction of certain provisions of the bankruptcy act, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Myron L. Learned, for appellant:
This controversy was one "arising in bankruptcy proceedings" and was therefore appealable under § 24a of the bankruptcy act. Hewit v. Berlin Machine Works, 194 U. S. 296;
Dodge v. Norlin, 133 Fed. Rep. 363, and cases there cited; In
re McKenzie, 142 Fed. Rep. 383; In re Holmes, 142 Fed. Rep.
391; Hendricks v. Webster, 159 Fed. Rep. 927; Burleigh v.
Foreman, 125 Fed. Rep. 217; Smith v. Means, 148 Fed. Rep.
89; Mason v. Wolkowich, 150 Fed. Rep. 699; Security Warehousing Co. v. Hand, 143 Fed. Rep. 32; Hinds v. Moore, 134
Fed. Rep. 221; McCarty v. Coffin, 150 Fed. Rep. 307; In re
McMahon, 147 Fed. Rep. 684; In re Mueller, 135 Fed. Rep.
711.
The intent and purpose to hinder, delay or defraud creditors
are to be presumed from the giving of the mortgage of May 2,
1904, when its necessary effect was to so hinder, delay or defraud. Crow v. Beardsley, 68 Missouri, 439; Wager v. Hall, 16
Wall. 584; Johnson v. Wald, 93 Fed. Rep. 640; In re McGee,
105 Fed. Rep. 895; Toof v. Martin, 13 Wall. 40; Wilson v.
City Bank, 17 Wall. 473; Western Tie & Timber Co. v. Brown,
196 U. S. 502; In re Ed. W. Wright Lumber Co., 114 Fed. Rep.

CODER v. ARTS.
213 U. S.

Argument for Appellee.

.1011; In re Platte, 110 Fed. Rep. 126; In re McLam, 97 Fed.

Rep. 922; Pollock V. Jones, 124 Fed. Rep. 163; In re Gutwillig,
92 Fed. Rep. 337; S. C., 90 Fed. Rep. 475.
Conceding that the claimant had no knowledge of the bank.upt's true financial condition on May 2, 1904, still the mortgage is void under the provisions of § 67a of the bankruptcy
act. Wilson Bros. v. Nelson, 183 U. S. 191; In re Richards,
96 Fed. Rep. 935; Pirie v. Trust Co., 182 U. S. 438; Thompson,
Trustee, v. Fairbanks,196 U. S. 516; Keppel v. Tiffin Savings
Bank, 197 U. S. 356; Morgan et al. v. First National Bank of
Mannington, 145 Fed. Rep. 466; Pollock v. Jones, 124 Fed.
Rep. 163.
The validity of a mortgage given within four months preceding bankruptcy, to secure a preexisting, unsecured indebtedness, has been passed on and denied in many cases. City
NationalBank v. Bruce (C. C. A.), 109 Fed. Rep. 69; In re Sanderlin, 109 Fed. Rep. 857; In're Jones, 118 Fed. Rep. 673; In
re Sawyer, 130 Fed. Rep. 384; In 7e Cobb, 96 Fed. Rep. 821;
In re Belding, 116 Fed. Rep. 1016; In re Wolf, 98 Fed. Rep. 84;
In re Gutwilig, 90 Fed. Rep. 475; In re Durham, 114 Fed. Rep.
.750; Davis v. Turner, 120 Fed. Rep. 605; In re Pease, 129 Fed.
Rep. 447.
The amount allowed claimant by the Circuit Court of Appeals
is excessive.
The Court of Appeals has computed and allowed interest to
March 1, 1906, on the amount found due Arts, instead of to
July 27, 1904.
The claim of Arts being provable only as an unsecured claim,
interest should have been allowed on the amount found due
only to July 27, 1904, the date when the petition was filed.
Section 63 of the bankruptcy act. of 1898; U. S. Comp. Stat.
1901, p. 3447.
Mr. George S. Wright, with -whom Mr. Robert E. O'Hanly
was on the brief, for appellee:
No appeal lay from the District Court to the Court of Appeals,
VOL. CCXIII-15

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Appellee.

213 U. S.

under § 25a of the bankruptcy act or otherwise, hence there
can be no appeal to this court. In re Worcester County) 102
Fed. Rep. 808; Morgan v. Bank, 145 Fed. Rep. 466; In re
Whitener, 105 Fed. Rep. 180; In re Abraham, 93 Fed. Rep. 767;
In re Mueller, 135 Fed. Rep. 711; In re First Naiional Bank of
Louisville, 155 Fed. Rep. 100; In re McMahon, 147 Fed. Rep.
684; In re Rouse, Hazard & Co., 91 Fed. Rep. 96; In re Cosmopolitan Power Co., 137 Fed. Rep. 858; Gaudette v. Graham,
164 Fed. Rep. 311; Hutchinson v. Otis, 190 U. S. .552, 555;
First National Bank v. Trust Company, 198 U. S. 280.
No appeal lies from the decision of the Court of Appeals, under
§ 25b of the bankrupt act or otherwise, because the question
of allowance or rejection, of a claim is iot involved.
No appeal lies from the decision of the Court of Appeals, under § 25b of the bankrupt act or otherwise, because the question involved is not one that might have been taken on appeal
or writ of error from the highest court of a State to this court.
Chapman V. Bowen, 207 U. S. 89.
As used in the act, the words "with intent to hinder, delay
or defraud creditors" do not cover cases in which conveyances
are made with the honest purpose on the part of the debtor,
though insolvent, of paying or. securing a debt. The conveyance denounced is one specially intended by the maker to have
the effect of hindering and delaying creditors in the satisfaction
of their claims, a contrivance for the purpose of protecting his
property. It does not cover a case where a mortgage is given
for the purpose of securing an honest debt, although incidentally the result may be to delay or hinder other creditors. The
intent to hinder or delay must be actual, not presumed as a
consequence of acts. In re Eggert, 43 C. C. A. 1; S. C., 102
Fed. Rep. 735; Jacobs v. Van Sickle, 61 C. C. ,A. 598; S. C.,
127 Fed. Rep. 62; Lansing v. Ryerson, 63 C. C. A., 253; S. C.,
128 Fed. Rep. 701; Githerns v. Shiffler, 112 Fed. Rep. 505.; Hark
v. Allen Co., 146 Fed. Rep. 665; Congleton v. Schreifer (N. J.),
54 Atl. Rep. 144; In re Virginia &c.,Co., 139 Fed. Rep. 209;
Bump on Fraudulent Conveyances, 45; Rison v. Knapp, Fed.

4 CODER v. ARTS.
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Cas. No. 11,861; Summerville v. Milling Co., 142 California, 529;
Drury v. Cross, 7 Wall. 299, 303; Davis v. Swartz, 155 U. S.

631,639.
There is no presumption that a mortgage byan insolvent is
given with the intent and purpose to hinder, delay or defraud
creditors. Case below, 152 Fed. Rep. 947; Brandenburg on
Bankruptcy (3d ed.), § 962; Loveland on Bankruptcy (2d ed.),
§§ 159, 160; Piriev. Trust Company, 182 U. S. 438, 446; Keppel v. Bank, 197 U. S. 366.
MR.

JUsTicE DAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

Alexander Armstrong, upon a petition in voluntary bankruptcy, was adjudicated a bankrupt by the United States
District Court for the Southern District of Iowa on August 6,
1904. Josiah Coder, appellant, was duly elected and qualified
as trustee. On August 26, 1904, William Arts, appellee, filed
a claim for $104,880.46 against the bankrupt estate on certain
promissory notes, to wit, one in the sum of $2,700.00, dated
May 19, 1900, due May 19, 1901; one in the sum of $18,453.00,
dated December 26, 1903, due March 26, 1904; one in the sum
of $20,000.00, dated January 29, 1904, due on demand; one in
the sum of $58,826.50, dated January 29, 1904, due January
30, 1905; and one in the sum of $5,512.40, dated June 17, 1904,
due on demand.
It was alleged in the claim filed that the first four notes were
secured by a real estate mortgage, dated May 2, 1904, covering
2,280 acres of land in Carroll County, Iowa, and the last note
by a real estate mortgage of June 17, 1904, covering 6151 acres
of land in Monona County, Iowa. The claimant asked for the
allowance of his notes against the estate, reserving all rights
to his securities in every portion thereof. The trustee filed an
answer and objections, to the claim of Arts; attacking both the
notes and the mortgage, alleging, in substance, that the bankrupt was not indebted to the claimant in the amount named;
that two of the notes were really obligations. of the sons of
Armstrong, signed by Arts as surety; that the mortgage was

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

given to secure a preexisting indebtedness within four months
of the adjudication in bankruptcy; that at the time of the
giving of the mortgage the property of the bankrupt was not
at a fair valuation sufficient to pay his debts, and that he was
insolvent; that the claimant or his agents knew the bankrupt's
condition, or had knowledge of such facts as would put them
on inquiry; that the mortgage was given with the intent and
purpose to prefer claimant; that claimant or his agents had
reason to believe a preference was intended; and that the mortgage was made and given within four months of the adjudication in bankruptcy with the intent and pVrpose to hinder, delay
or defraud creditors.
Testimony was taken before the referee, and upon exceptions
to his findings the case went before the District Judge, who set
aside the findings 9 f the referee, made findings of fact and entered the follo.ving order:
"It is therefore hereby ordered, adjudged aid decreed that
the said claim of William Arts, on account of the four notes
referred to in the fourth finding of facts herein, and secured by
the said mortgage of May 2, 1904, be and the same are established against the trustee and estate of Alexander Armstrong,
bankrupt, and the said notes and the mortgage securing the
same, are hereby declared to have been a good, valid and
[enforceable] lien on the property described in said mortgage
from the time of the giving and recording of said mortgage
down to the time when said property was sold by the trustee
in bankruptcy herein,. under order of this court, discharged
and free and clear of all liens, and are now a good, valid, and
[enforceable] lien on the proceeds of the sale of said land in the
hands of the trustee. To which said order, adjudication and
decree, and each part thereof, the trustee excepts.
"It is further ordered, adjudged,.and decreed that the said
claims of the said William Arts on account of said four notes,
aggregating, principal and interest, the sum of $97,497.40, as
found in the fifth finding of fact, herein to be paid in full to the
said William Arts, claimant, by the trustee out of the funds

CODER v. ARTS.
213 U. B.

Opinion of the Court.

and moneys in his hands by him received on account of the
sale of the lands covered by said mortgage and hereinbefore
described after the payments of all prior liens and claims thereon
as determined by this court. To which said order, adjudication
and decree, and each part thereof, the trustee excepts.
"It is further ordered, adjudged and decreed that the note
and claim of $5,512.40 referred to the fourteenth finding of fact
herein, be, and the same is hereby, established as against the
trustee and the estate, and that as to said claim the said William Arts will participate in said estate as a general creditor.
To which said order, adjudication and decree, and each part
thereof,. the trustee excepts.
"It is 'further ordered, adjudged and decreed that the said
mortgage of June 17, 1904, given to secure said claim of
$5,512.40, be not enforced, but is hereby set aside, cancelled and
held for naught, and treated as though never given, and the
claimant Arts take nothing under the mortgage."
The case is reported in the District Court in 145 Fed. Rep.
202. Sub nomie In re Armstrong.
The trustees took the case to the Circuit Court of Appeals
for the Eighth Circuit upon petition for a review and by .appeal.
That court dismissed the petition for review, and, after considering the appeal, sustained the findings of the District Court
and affirmed its judgment, except upon the matter of interest
on the notes secured by the mortgage, wherein it differed from
the District Court, and held that Arts was entitled to interest
on the notes to be paid out of the fund. 152 Fed. Rep. 943.
This correction of interest was made upon the petition of Arts
for review. An appeal was then taken to.this court upon a
petition for allowance of appeal, stating the allowanme of the
claim and the establishment of the lien thereof. The ground
of appeal alleged was that the amount in controversy exceeded
the sum of $2,000, and that it was a proper case to appeal from
the Court of Appeals to the Supreme Court of the United States.
The appeal was allowed within thirty days of the entry of the
decree, and afterwards, within thirty days, an order was made

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

which recited that the court had made certain findings of fact
and conclusion of law, and the same were entered nunc pro tune
as of the date of the judgment, as follows:
"1. Alexander Armstrong filed a voluntary petition in bankruptcy on July 27, 1904, in the District Court of the United
States for the Southern District of Iowa, and was adjudged a
bankrupt thereon on August 6, 1904.
"2. For many years prior to May 2, 1904, he had been engaged principally in farming in Carroll County, Iowa, and on
that day he owned a tract of 80 acres of land and a tract of
2,360 acres of land in that county, 6161 acres of land in Monona
County, a residence and business lot in Glidden, Iowa, 200 or
300 head of cattle, 30 horses, a large number of hogs and some
farm machinery. Mortgages which amounted to about $18,000
had been recorded against a part of the land in Carroll County,
and the land in Monona County had been traded for in April,
1904, and taken subject to one-half of a mortgage for $40,000.
All of the other property was free from incumbrance. But the
residence in Glidden was his homestead and exempt from
execution.
"3. William Arts was the sole owner of a state bank in Carroll, Iowa, which he opened in 1898, and his son, W. A. Arts,
was the cashier. In June, 1898, the bank commenced loaning
money to Armstronig, and continued to loan moneys to him
in amounts varying from $20,000 to a few hundred dollars at
a time, and to renew old loans, until on May 2, 1904, Armstrong
owed Arts $98,503.32 evidenced by notes, and $2,000 evidenced
by an overdrawn atcount in the bank. This indebtedness had
been increasing steadily from June, 1898, by reason of the new
loans and the accrual of interest. Armstrong first opened an
account in Arts' bank in April, 1900. Prior to that time he had
kept an.account in another bank in Carroll, in which Arts had
owned a large interest up to the time he opened his own bank,
in 1898.
"4. Armstrong had the reputation of being one of the wealthiest men in Carroll County, and no security had been required

CODER v. ARTS.
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of or given by him to Arts until Mar 2, 1904, when he gave a
mortgage on 2,360 acres of his land in Carroll County to secure
the payment of $98,503.22 evidenced by his notes, and this
mortgage was recorded on May 3, 1904. It was executed at
the request of the cashier of the bank, or at the request of his
brother, who had been called home. by reason of the serious
illness of their father, William Arts.
"5. Armstrong was insolvent on May 2, 1904, when he gave
the mortgage to Arts, and he then knew that he was insolvent.
"6. Neither Arts nor any of his agents acting therein knew
or had reasonable cause to believe that Armstrong was insolvent
when he gave the mortgage of May 2, 1904, nor did Arts or any
of his agents acting therein then have reasonable cause to
believe that it was intended thereby to give him a preference
over other creditors by the execution of that mortgage.
"7. Armstrong did not make the mortgage of May 2, 1904,
with any intent or purpose on his part to hinder, delay or defraud his creditors or any of them.
"8. There is due to the appellee on the notes secured by the
mortgage of May 2, 1904, with interest to March 1, 1906, the
sum of $109,107.56, and this amount should be paid to appellee
by the-appellant out of the funds and moneys in his hands which
he received on account of the sale of the lands covered by that
mortgage.
Conclusions of'Law.
"1. The mortgage of May 2, 1904, is not voidable by the
trustee under sections 60a and 60b of the bankruptcy law,
because neither Arts nor his agents acting therein had reasonable .cause to believe that it was intended thereby to give a
preference.
."2. The mortgage of May 2, 1904, is not null or void as
.against the creditors of the mortgagor, Armstrong, under section .67e, because it was not made with the intent or purpose
on his part to hinder, delay or defraud his creditors or any of
them.
"3. The giving of the mortgage of May 2, 1904, to Arts did

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

not as a matter of law constitute any evidence of any intent
on the part of the bankrupt to hinder, delay or defraud other
creditors within the meaning of section 67e, notwithstanding
the fact that its necessary effect was to hinder and delay other
creditors and to deprive them of an opportunity they might
otherwise have had to collect larger portions of their claims.
"4. The mortgage of May 2, 1904, though given within four
months of the adjudication in bankruptcy to secure a preexisting unsecured indebtedness was valid, and the appellee
should be paid $109,107.56 out of the proceeds of the sale of
the mortgaged property."
It is contended by the appellee that the case should be dismissed for want of jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of Appeals
and of this court. Questions of the jurisdiction in bankruptcy,
particularly of the appellate courts, have given rise to numerous and not altogether reconcilable decisions. The bankruptcy
act, as originally passed, did not give the bankruptcy courts
jurisdiction over plenary suits to recover the property alleged
to belong to the trustee in bankruptcy, except with the consent
of the defendant. This was the subject of full consideration
and determination in Bardes v. The Bank, 178 U. S. 524.
Subsequent decisions of this court construed the act to give
the bankruptcy courts jurisdiction over controversies concerning the property in possession of the bankruptcy courts.
Whitney v. Wenman, 198 U. S. 539; Murphy v. John Hoffman,
Co., 211 U. S. 562.
Section 24 of the bankruptcy act provides:
"a. The Supreme Court of the United. States, the Circuit
Courts of Appeals of the United States, and the Supreme Courts
of the Territories, in vacation in chambers and during their
respective terms, as now or as they may be hereafter held, are
hereby invested with appellate jurisdiction of coitroversies
arising in bankruptcy proceedings from the courts of bankruptcy from which they have appellate jurisdiction in other
cases. The Supreme Court of the United States shall exercise
a like jurisdiction from courts of bankruptcy not within any

CODER v. ARTS.
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

organized circuit of the United States and from the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia.
"b. The several Circuit Courts of Appeal shall have jurisdiction in equity, either hiterlocutory or final, to superintend
or revise in matter of law the proceedings of the several inferior
courts of bankruptcy within their jurisdiction. Such power
shall be exercised on due notice and petition by any party
aggrieved."
By paragraph b of § 24 the Circuit Courts of Appeals have
jurisdiction to superintend and revise in m~tters 'of law, proceedings of the several inferior courts of bankruptcy within
their jurisdiction. The proceeding under this section is designed to enable the Circuit Court of Appeals to review questions
of law arising in bankruptcy proceedings, and is not intended
as a substitute for the right of appeal upon controverted questions of fact under the right of appeal given in controversies
arising in bankruptcy proceedings (§ 24), or the special appeal
given in certain oases under § 25.
Section 25 of the act provides for appeals in bankruptcy
proceedings and in such proceedings appeals may be taken
from the courts of bankruptcy to the Circuit Courts of Appeals
in three classes of cases.
We a;re concerned in this case with the third class, "from a
judgment allowing or rejecting a deht-r claim of five hundred
dollars or over." The appeal must be taken Within ten days
after th judgment.
It is therefore apparent that the mode of appeal in a given
case depends upon the character of the proceeding. And the
question to be solved in such cases is, Does the case present a
proceeding in bankruptcy or is it a controversy arising in bankruptey, proceedings?
A reference to the adjudications in this court may. assist in
clearing the matter. Hewit v. Berlin Machine Works, 194 U. S.
296, is an illustration of a controversy arising in bankruptcy
proceedings (§ 24a) wherein the appeal is under § 6 of the act
of March 3, 1891. In that case the Berlin Machine Works

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

asserted title to the property in the possession of the trustee,
and intervened in the bankruptcy proceedings, raising a distinct and separable issue as to the title to property in the possession of the trustee. This. court, speaking through the Chief
Justice,. held that the case presented a controversy arising in
bankruptcy proceedings appealable to the courts of appeal as
other cases under § 6 of the act of March 3, 1891. Nor is the
decision in Hewit v. Berlin Machine Works inconsistent with
First-NationalBank of Chicago v. Chicago Title & Trust Co.,
198 U. S. 280. In that case there was an attempt on the part
of the trustee to invoke an adjudication as to the title to property which the District Court found not to be in the possession
of the trustee, notwithstanding the petition of the trustee had
averred possession, and it was held that when this fact appeared the District Court had no longer jurisdiction of the case
under the doctrine laid down in Bardes v. Bank, supra, and
ought fo have dismissed the case.
We are thus brought to.the determination of the question,
Was the proceeding instituted by Arts a controversy arising
in bankruptcy proceedings, or did he institute a bankruptcy
proceeding, properly speaking? The answer to this question
depends upon an examination of the manner in which the jurisdiction of the bankruptcy court was invoked for the determination of the rights involved. The record discloses that Arts filed
in due form a claim upon the promissory hotes, setting them
forth in detail, asking that they be allowed as a proper claim
against the assets in the hands of the trustees to be administered,
described the mortgage as being the only security held by him
for the payment of the debt, and concluded his claims with this
statement: "The deponent, in filing his claim herein against
the bankrupt, does so with the express understanding that he
makes no waiver of any portion of his security, and expressly reserves said security and every portion thereof to the amount
of said claim, including the cost, if any, of collecting payment
thereof out of said property held as. security."
He thus in effect presented to the trustee in bankruptcy a

CODER v. ARTS.
213 U. S.

235

Opinion of the Court.

claim upon his notes, joined with the statement that he had
security upon the estate which it was his purpose to maintain,
and upon which he was entitled to priority in the distribution
of the assets. He did not, as was the case in Hewit v. Berlin
Machine Works, supra; York Manufacturing Company v. Cassell, 201 U. S. 344; Security Warehousing Co. v. Hand, 206 U. S.
415, intervenein the bankruptcy proceedings for the purpose
of asserting an independent and superior title to the property
held by the trustees, claiming the right to recover the property
and to remove it from the jurisdiction of the bankruptcy court
as a part of the estate to be administered. Arts appeared in
the bankruptcy court, recognizing the title and ,possession of
the trustee in bankruptcy, asserted his claim upon the notes,
and his right to have the assets so. administered and paid as to
recognize the validity of the lien for the security for his claim.
We are of opinion that he thus instituted a proceeding in bankruptcy as distinguished .from a controversy arising in the course
of bankruptcy proceedings. This being the character of the
proceeding, its subsequent disposition' and the appropriate
appellate jurisdiction are to be determined by the provisions
of the bankruptcy act governing bankruptcy proceedings.
It is true that Arts asserted both a debt and a lien to secure
the same. In such cases the procedure as to the debt or claim
governs, with incidental right to consider and determine the
validity and priority of the lien asserted upon the property in
the hands Of the bankrupt's trustee. This method of procedure was recognized in Hutchinson v. Otis, 190 U. S. 552. In
that %aseOtis, Wilcox & Company, having a claim for $4,421.64,
had sued and attached the bankrupt's property within four
months of filing the petition in bankruptcy. Otis, Wilcox &
Company, supposing their attachment good, took judgment
by default and collected their debts from the attached parties,
the trustee agreeing to save them harmless from liability; satisfaction was entered in each suit. Subsequently the trustee
demanded payment of these debtors of the bankrupt, and, as
they had no defense, Otis, Wilcox & Company paid.to the trus-.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

tee the amount of the debts. Otis, Wilcox & Company then
filed a claim in 15ankruptcy, which was allowed in the lower
court; and they asserted a lien upon the bankrupt estate. After
disposing of the question of the effect of the satisfaction, and
deciding that the claim was provable, speaking of the asserted
lien, this court said:
"Under the circumstances of this case it seems to us that the
petition [asserting the lien] was. incident to the claim, Cunningham v. German InsuranceBank, 101 Fed. Rep. 977; S. C., 4 Am.
Bank. Rep. 192, and was a bankruptcy proceeding under section
2, cl. 7, within the meaning of section 25, regulating appeals in
bankruptcy proceedings, and that the decree upon it was not,
'a judgment allowing or rejecting a debt or claim of five hundred dollars or over,' within section 25a, 3, and was not an independent ground of appeal. See In re Whitner, 105 Fed. Rep.
180, 186; In re Worcester County, 102 Fed. Rep. 808, 813; In
re Rouse, Hazard & Company, 91 Fed. Rep. 96; In re York, 4
N. B. R. 479, 483. If the question should be held to come up
as an incident to the appeal on the proof, Cunningham v. German Insurance .Bank, supra, we see no error in the decree of
the District Court."
The contest in the Otis case, as in this, was over the claim presented, and, incidentally, to establish P lien upon the bankrupt's estate.
It is insisted, however, that inasmuch as the trustee in the
case at bar made no objection to the amount found due upon
the notes by the District Court, and only sought by his appeal
to further contest the right to the security asserted by Arts,
that his sole remedy was under § 24b-to have a revision in the
Circuit Court of Appeals by a petition filed for that purpose,
and that the Circuit Court of Appeals should have dismissed
the attempted appeal. But we are of opinion that the character of the proceeding must be determined by the nature of
the claim set up against the trustee in bankruptcy, and as § 25b
gives an appeal to the Court of Appeals from a judgment allowing or.rejecting a debt or claim of $500 or over, that the ap-

CODER v. ARTS&
213 U. S.

237 .

Opinion of the Court.

peal was properly allowed in this case, and brought before the
Circuit Court of Appeals the validity of the claim and the lien
asserted securing the debt.
The question remains, Has this court jurisdiction by appeal
from the Circuit Court of Appeals? This depends upon subdivisiqn b of § 25, giving an appeal; under such rules as may be
prescribed by this court, where the amount in controversy exceeds the sum of $2,000, and the question involved is one which
might have been taken on appeal or writ of error from the
highest court of the State to this court; or where some Justice
of this court shall make a certificate, as required under paragraph .2 of subdivision b.. As there is no such certificate, the
question is, Was the appeal taken within the time prescribed
by the rules of this court, and is the question involved one whici
might haye been taken on appeal or writ of error from the highest court of the State to this court? The general order in bankruptcy No. 36 provides that appeals under the act from the
Circuit Court of Appeals to this court shall be taken within thirty
days after the judgment or decree, and that in every such case
"the court from which the appeal lies shall, at or before the time.
of entering its judgment or decree, make and file a .finding of
the facts, and its conclusions of law thereon, stated separately;
and the record transmitted to thd Supreme Court of the United
States on such an appeal shall consist only of the pleadings, the
judgment or decree, the finding of facts, and the con'clutions of
law." The appeal waA taken within the thirty days. The Circuit Court of Appeals made the findings of fact and conclusions
of law part of the record by an order, made within thirty days,
directing the same to be filed nune pro tunc as of the date the
judgment entered. It is insisted that this is not a compliance
with the rule that requires the findings to be made at or before
the time of entering its judgment or decree. But we think that
the court must benresumed to have acted within its authority
to correct the record by this orde made within the time allowed
for an appeal to make- it'show the findings at or before the time
of eDtering the judgment.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

Is the case one which might have been taken to this court
upon appeal or writ of error from the highest court of the State?
We are of opinion that it is. In determining the validity of the
lien asserted to. secure the claim a construction of the bankruptcy act is directly involved. A construction of the act is
nsisted upon by the appellant w1ich would defeat the lien.
On the other hand, the construction contended for by the ap
pellee would giy the lien validity. In such a case, had the
case been in the state court, it might have been brought here
for review under § 709 of the Revised Statutes. Rector v. The
City Deposit Bank, 200 U. S. 405; St. Louis & Iron Mountain
R. R. Co.- v. Taylor, 210 U. S. 281, 293. It is contended that
a contrarY ruling was made in Chapman, Trustee, v. Bowen, 207
U. S. 89. But, in concluding the opinion of the court in that
case, Mr. Chief Justice Fuller said:
"The decision below proceeded on well-settled principles of
general law, broad enough to sustain it without reference to
provisions of the bankruptcy act. And, moreover, even if it
could be held that by his claim Bowen asserted any right within
the meaning of section 709, Rev. Stat., the decision was in his
favor, and the trustee's bare denial of the claim could not be
relied on under that statute. Jersey City & Bergen Railroad
Company v. Morgan, 160 U. S. 288."
We, therefore, reach the conclusion that the claim presented
instituted a proceeding in bankruptcy, and, being for over $500
it was appealable to the Circuit Court of Appeals, bringing to
that court the validity .of the asserted lien, and .that appeal lies
to this court under § 25b, as the claim exceeded $2,000, axid,
with the lien asserted thereon, presented a case for the construction of the bankruptcy act which might have been brought
here under § 709 of the Revised Statutes had the cae been
decided by the highest court of the State. We, therefore, entertain the case upon its merits; and will proceed to examine-'
the validity of the lien asserted under the mortgage to Arts
upon the facts found by the Circuit Court of Appeals.
In an appeal of this character we can look only at the facts

CODER v. ARTS.
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

found by the Circuit Court of Appeals. General Orders in Bankruptcy, 36, paragraph 3. The question before us is, upon the findings of fact made by the Circuit Court of Appeals, Should the
mortgage to Arts of May 2, 1904, securing the sum of $98,503.32,
have been invalidated? The mortgage was placed on a large
tract of land in Carroll County, Iowa. The record discloses
that this was not all the property of the bankrupt. Just what
the other property was worth above incumbrances does not
definitely appear. It does appear, however, that the bankrupt
owned a residence and business lot in Glidden, Iowa, 200 or 300
head of cattle, thirty horses, a large number of hogs and some
farm machinery, unincumbered. And it is specifically found
that although Armstrong was insolvent on May 2, 1904, and
knew that he was insolvent, neither the mortgagee nor any of his
agents knew or had reasonable cause to believe that Armstrong
was then insolvent; nor did Arts or any of his agents then have
reasonable cause to believe that it was intended thereby to give
a preference over other creditors by the execution of the mortgage. it is further specifically found that Armstrong did not
make the mortgage in question with any intent or purpose on
his part to hinder, delay or defraud his creditors, or any of them.
The decision of the case requires consideration of certain sections of the bankruptcy act. Section 60, subdivision a, provides:
"A person shall be deemed to have given a preference if,
being insolvent, he has, within four months of the filing of the
petition and before the adjudication, procured or suffered a
judgment to be entered against himself in favor of any person,
or made a transfer of any of his property, and the effect of the
enforcement of such a judgment or transfer will be to enable
any one of his creditors to obtain a greater percentage of his
debt thin 'any other of such creditors of the same class."
Such preferences may be set aside under the condition named
in subdivision b of § 60, which is as follows:
"If a bankrupt shall have given a preference, and the person
receiving it, or to be benefited thereby, or his agent acting

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

therein, shall have had reasonable cause to believe that it was
intended thereby to give a preference, it shall be voidable by
the trustee, and he may recover the property or its value from
such person."
Manifestly this conveyance could not be set aside under the
provisions of § 60b. For, while it is true that under the facts
found the conveyance might be deemed a preference, as a transfer of property which would have the effect of enabling one
creditor to obtain a larger percentage of his debt or claim than
other creditors of the same class, yet, as it is distinctly found,
that neither the mortgagee nor his agent had any reasonable
cause to believe that it was intended to give a preference, the
same could not be avoided under § 60b.
The reliance in this case is upon § 67e of the act. This section,
so far as it is necessary to consider it, reads as follows:
"d. Liens given or accepted in good faith and not in contemplation of or in fraud upon this act, and for a present consideration, which have been recorded according to law, if record
thereof was necessary in order to impart notice, shall not be
affected by this act.
"e. That all conveyances, transfers, assignments, or incumbrances of his property, or any part thereof, made or given by
a person adjudged a bankrupt under the provisions of this act,
subsequent to the passage of this act-and within four months
prior to the filing of the petition, with the intent and purpose
on his part to hinder, delay, or defraud his cieditors, or any of
them, shall be null and void as against the creditors of such
debtor, except as to purchasers in good faith and for a present
fair consideration; and all property of the debtor conveyed,
transferred, assigned, or incumbered as aforesaid shall, if he be
adjudged a bankrupt, and the same is not exempt from execution and liability for debts by the law of his domicile, be and
remain a part of the assets and estate of the bankrupt and shall
pass to his said trustee, whose duty it shall be to recover and
reclaim the same by legal proceedings or otherwise for the benefit of the creditors."

CODER v. ARTS.
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

It is the contention of the appellant that as the necessary
consequence of the giving of the mortgage under consideration
was to hinder, delay or defraud creditors of the bankrupt in the
collection of their debts, Armstrong must be presumed to have
intended such consequences, and the mortgage is therefore voidable..
A consideration of the provisions of the bankruptcy law as
to preferences and conveyances, shows that there is a wide difference between the two, notwithstanding they are sometimes
spoken of in such a way as to confuse the one with the other.
A preference, if it have the effect prescribed in § 60, enabling
one creditor to obtain a greater portion of the estate than others
of the same class, is not necessarily fraudulent. Preferences are
set aside when made within four months, with a view to obtaining an equal distribution of the estate, and in such cases it is
only essential to show a transfer by an insolvent debtor to one
who himself or by his agent knew of the intention to create a
preference. In construing the bankruptcy act this distinction
must be kept constantly in mind. As was said in Githens v.
Shiffler, 112 Fed. Rep. 505: "An attempt to prefer is not to be
confounded with an attempt to defraud, nor a preferential transfer with a fraudulent one." In In re Maher, 144 Fed. Rep. 503509, it was well said by the District Court of Massachusetts:
"In a preferential transfer the fraud is constructive or technical, consisting in the infraction of that rule of equal distribution among all creditors, which it is the policy of the law to
enforce when all cannot be fully paid. In a fraudulent transfer
the fraud is actual, the bankrupt has secured an advantage
for himself out of what in law should belong to his creditors,
and not to him."
Is the conveyance voidable under subdivision e, § 67? Under the terms of that subdivision a fraudulent conveyance is
made void as to creditors, except as to grantees in good faith
and for a present fair consideration. The provision saving conveyances to purchasers in good faith and for a present fair consideration prevents such conveyances from being declared void
voQ,

cCxIn-1

6

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

by the act, although they have been made by the bankrupt
with the intent on his part to hinder, delay or defraud his creditors. But the act does not dispense with the necessity of showing, to avoid a conveyance or transfer under § 67e, that the
bankrupt had the actual intent to hinder, delay or defraud
creditors. What is meant when it is required that such conveyances in order to be set aside shall be made with the intent
on the bankrupt's part to hinder, delay or defraud creditors?
This form of expression is familiar to the law of fraudulent conveyances, and was used at the common law, and in the statute
of Elizabeth, and has always been held to require, in order to
invalidate a conveyance, that there shall be actual fraud; and
it makes no difference that the conveyance was made upon a
valuable consideration, if made for the purpose of hindering,
delaying or defrauding creditors. The question of fraud depends upon the motive. Kerr on'Fraud and Mistake, 196, 201.
The mere fact that one creditor was preferred over another, or
that the conveyance might have the effect to secure one creditor and deprive others of the means of obtaining payment, was
not sufficient to avoid a conveyance; but it was uniformly recognized that, acting in good faith, a debtor might thus prefer
one or more creditors. Stewart et al. v. Dunham et al., 115 U. S.
61; Huntley v. Kingman, 152 U. S. 527.
We are of opinion that Congress, in enacting § 67e, and using
the terms "to hinder, delay or defraud creditors," intended to
adopt them in their well-known meaning as being aimed at
conveyances intended to defraud. In § 60 merely preferential
transfers. are defined, and the terms on which they may be set
aside are provided; in § 67e, transfers fraudulent under the wellrecognized principles of the common law and the statute of
Elizabeth are invalidated. The same terms are used in § 3,
subdivision 1, in which it is made an act of bankruptcy to
transfer property with intent to hinder, delay or defraud creditors. Such transfers have been held to be only those which are
actually fraudulent. It was so held in Lansing Boiler & Engine
Works v. Ryerson, 128 Fed, Rep. 701. Considering the lan-

CODER v. ARTS.
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

guage, which is identical with that in § 67e, the Circuit Court
of Appeals, speaking through Judge Severens, said:
"The language of subsection 1 of section 2 is the familiar
language of statutes against conveyances fraudulent as against
creditors, and we think there can be no doubt that Congress
intended the words employed should have the same construction and'effect as have for a long period of time been attributed to those words. Githens v. Shiffler, 112 Fed. Rep. 505.
And so construed, the test of the conveyance intended by subsection 1 of section 3 is that of the bona fides of the transfer.
Loveland's Bank., 2 ed., sec. 51. For it is the well-settled law
that a conveyance made in good faith, whether for an antecedent or. a present consideration, is not forbidden by such statutes, notwithstanding that the effect may be that it hinders or
delays creditors by removing from their reach assets of the
debtor."
And to the same effect is the decision of the Circuit Court of
Appeals of the Second Circuit in In re Bloch, 142 Fed. Rep.
674, 676, in which that court had occasion to consider the meaning of § 67e, as applicable to §57g, of the act as amended in
1903, requiring the surrender of preferences voidable under
§ 60, subdivision b, or of fraudulent conveyances voidable under
§ 67e, in order to make proof of a claim, and in considering
§ 67e, Judge Townsend, speaking for the court, said:
"We think Congress must be presumed to have intended
by the introduction of section 67e to require a surrender only
of such transfers as would have been fraudulent at common
law, or would constitute an act of bankruptcy under section
3 of the act. In Githens v. Shiffler, supra, the bankrupt used
the proceeds of a sale of property to prefer certain creditors.
The court, upon a review of the authorities, held that section
3 applied only to those transfers which, according to the established course of authority, constituted a fraudulent transfer
at the time of the passage of the bankruptcy act, and held that
a mere. preferential transfer, as distinguished from a fraudulent
one, was not an act in bankruptcy under said section 3.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

"The question as to whether a transfer is made with intent
to hinder, delay or defraud depends upon whether the act done
is a bona fide transaction. Loveland on Bankruptcy, 391;
Cadogan v. Kennet, 2 Cowper, 435; Lansing Boiler and Engine
Works v. Ryerson, supra. An intent to defraud is the test of
the right to avoid a transfer under section 67e."
In dealing with this question this court said, in Thompson v.
Fairbanks,196 U. S. 516:
"There is no finding that in parting with the possession of
the property the mortagor had any purpose of hindering, delaying or defrauding his creditors or any of them. Without a
finding to the effect that there was an intent to defraud, there
was no invalid transfer of the property under the provisions
of section 67e, of the bankruptcy law."
That it is essential to show actual fraud in order to invalidate
conveyances under § 67e, is the view of the textwriters upon
this subject. Loveland on Bankruptcy (3d ed.), 476; Collier
on Bankruptcy (6th ed.), 562; 1 Remington on Bankruptcy,
§ 1498.
We do not agree, if such is to be held the effect of the third
conclusion of law in the finding of. the Court of Appeals, -that
the giving of the mortgage and its effect upon other creditors
could not be considered as an item of evidence in determining
the question of fraud. What we hold is that to constitute a
conveyance voidable under § 67e, actual fraud must be shown.
How, then, stands the case at bar? As we have already said,
we must decide this case upon the facts found in the, Circuit
Court of Appeals, and it is therein found that in making the
mortgage in question, Armstrong had no intention to hinder,
delay or defraud his creditors. In view of the finding of the
Circuit Court of Appeals, it may be that Armstrong, though
including in the conveyance a large amount of his property,
acted in good faith, with a view to preserving his estate and
enabling him to meet his indebtedness. Such conveyances
were valid at the common law and under the statute from which
this feature of the law was taken, and, while Congress in the

COMMERCIAL MUTUAL ACCIDENT CO. v. DAVIS. 245
213 U.S.

Syllabus.

bankruptcy act strikes down preferential conveyances which
come within its terms where the party preferred has good
reasons to believe that a preference is 'intended, it has not declared voidable merely preferential conveyances made in good
faith and in which the grantee, as is found in this case, was
ignorant of the insolvency of the grantor, and had no reason to
believe that a preference was intended. Nor do we think the
Circuit Court of Appeals erred ii holding that inasmuch as the
estate was ample for that -purpose, Arts was entitled to interest
on his mortgage debt. Finding no error in the judgment of the
Court of Appeals, the same is

Affirmed.

COMMERCIAL MUTUAL ACCIDENT COMPANY
DAVIS'

v.

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
No. 114.

Argued March 15, 16, 1909.-Decided April 5, 1909.

Where the defendant makes no appearance in the state court or in the

Circuit Court except for the purpose of raising the question of jurisdiction and removing the case to the Federal court, such proceedings
do not amount to a general appearance.

A State may require a foreign insurance corporation not having any
regular office in the State to make its agents who have authority to
settle losses in the State competent to receive notice of actions concerning such losses.
In order for a state court to obtain jurisdiction over a foreign corporation having neither. property nor agent within a State it is essential for
the corporation to be doing business in the State.
An insurance company with outstanding policies in a State on which
it collects premiums and adjusts losses held, in this case, to be doing
busines within that Statebso as to render it liable to an action, and
that service, according to the law of the State, on a doctor sent to
investigate the loss and having power to adjust the same is sufficient
to.give the state court jurifdiction.

