OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Petitioner.

213 U. S.

MACFADDEN v. UNITED STATES.
APPLICATION FOR WRIT OF ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF
APPEALS FOR THE THIRD CIRCUIT.
No. 14 Original.

Submitted April 5, 1909.-Decided April 12, 1909.

The object of the act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, 26 Stat. 826, was to distribute the appellate jurisdiction of this court between it and the

Circuit Court of Appeals, and to abolish the appellate jurisdiction of
the Circuit Court.
Although where a real constitutional question exists a writ of error can
be sued out directly from this court to the trial court under § 5 of the
act of 1891, the right to do so is lost by taking an appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals. Robinson v. Caldwell, 165 U. S. 359.
The Circuit Court of Appeals does not lose its jurisdiction of an appeal
under § 6 of the act of 1891 because questions were involved which
would have warranted a direct appeal to this court under § 5 of that
act.
Where the case can be taken directly to this court under § 5, or to the
Circuit Court of Appeals under § 6, and the latter appeal is taken,
while a writ of error will lie to the Circuit Court of Appeals if the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Court rests, as shown by plaintiff's statement, on grounds, one of which is reviewable by this court, it will not
lie if the only ground of jurisdiction is one where the judgment of
the Circuit Court of Appeals is final.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals in a criminal case is final,
and is no less so because the appellate jurisdiction of this court might
have been invoked directly under § 5 of the act of 1891.
THE facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Henry M. Earle for petitioner for writ of error:
I. Whether or not a writ of error to this court may now be
had for the purpose of reviewing the judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals, is controlled by the Judiciary Act of March 3,
1891.
The interpretation of this act has been before this court in
several instances; see Robinson v. Caldwell, 165 U. S. 359, in
which case appellant attempted to avail himself of independ-

MACFADDEN v. UNITED STATES.
213 U. S.

Argument for Petitioner.

ent and simultaneous appeals; See also Carter v. Roberts, 177
U. S. 496, in which appellant, after having appealed to the
Circuit Court of Appeals from the Circuit Court, attempted to
appeal from the Circuit Court directly to this court.
For an elaborate interpretation of the Judiciary Act see
Spreckels Sugar Refining Co. v. McClain, 192 U. S. 397, 408,
discussing whether the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals
was so far final, within § 6 of the act of 1891, that it could not
be reviewed here as of right by writ of error and whether the
judgment of that court can be reexamined here in any way,
except upon certiorari.
The Spreckels case arose under the revenue laws, and the case
at bar arose under the criminal laws; both are within the same
provision of the Judiciary Act, and consequently the conclusions of this court on the subject of its jurisdiction relative to
one, are equally applicable to the other.
In the Spreckels case, Robinson v. Caldwell, 165 U. S. 359,
was distinguished, as in the latter case appeals were taken from
the Circuit Court both to the Circuit Court of Appeals and to
this court.
The case before the court was one in which the jurisdiction
of the Circuit Court is unquestionably established, and the case
is within § 5 of the act of 1891. The judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals is not final within the meaning of § 6 of
said act, as it involves the construction of the statute relating
to the use of the mails-a criminal law-and also involvts "from
the outset . . . the construction or application of- the
Constitution, or the constitutionality of an act of Congress."
Under the facts and conditions stated it would appear that the
decision in the Spreckels case :(supra) controls the jurisdiction
to review the judgment' in the case at bar, a right the reason
for which in this case' appears in the fact that the construction
of the section of the act in question, 3893, Rev. Stat., by the
courts was opposed to the construction of it established by
this court in the case of Dunlop v. United States, 165 U. S. 486,
and United States v. Suearingen, 161 U. S. 451, and that the
VOL. CCX11I- 19.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for the United States.

213 U. S.

courts avoided or ignored the constitutional question; the exactness of both of these statements are obvious upon reference
to the record.
II. A constitutional question does actually exist in this case.
The question arising does not refer to the admitted right of
Congress to regulate the mails, but to the uncertainty of some
of the laws in this regard. The act in question is so framed that
its administration contravenes constitutional rights. See Ex
parte Jackson, 96 U. S. 727; Public Clearing House v. Coyne,
194 U. S. 507; United States v. Comerford, 25 Fed. Rep. 902;
United States v. Morris, 14 Pet. 464; United -States v. Wiltberger, 5 Wheat. 76.
The -statute is uncertain, being expressed in abstract terms
which depend for construction upon the ever varying personal
standards of the court or jury in each particular case. Certain
standards have been established by this court, but the examination of the reports show that the lower courts are so divided
as to their meaning that the greatest uncertainty still exists,
and no man may tell from reading the statute or from studying
the varying decisions, what he may not do under it; a single
instance illustrates this fact, viz.: the opinion in Hanson v.
United States, 157 Fed. Rep. 749, follows Dunlop y. United
States, 165 U. S. 486, and is directly opposed to Macfadden v.
United States, 165 Fed. Rep. 51, 52, which is based on the case
of Rosen v. United States 161 U. S. 29.
Criminal laws cannot be framed in uncertain terms. James
v. Bowman, 190 U. S. 127; United States v. Brewer, 139 U. S.
288; 12 Myer, Fed. Dec. 86, § 346.
The Solicitor General for the United States:
This is not a case in which the constitutionality of a law of
the United States is drawr in question, because this court has
already declared that §3893 is constitutional.
The mere allegation that an act is unconstitutional is not
sufficient to draw in question the constitutionality of the act.
The constitutional or other Federal claim must be real and sub-

MACFADDEN v. UNITED STATES.
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

stantial in order to give jurisdiction to this court; the bare
averment of a Federal question is not sufficient; there must be at
least color of ground therefor. Millingar V. Hartupee, 6 Wall.
258; New Orleans v. New Orleans Water Works Co., 142 U. S.
79; Hamblin v. Western Land Co., 147 U. S. 531; Fort Smith
Ry. v. Merriam, 156 U. S. 483; Clarke v. McDade, 165 U. S.
172; Wilson v. North Carolina, 169 U. S. 595; Lampasas v.
Bell, 180 U. S. 276; Sawyer v. Piper, 189 U. S. 154; American
R. R. Co. v. Castro, 204 U. S. 453.
'The mere allegation of the petitioner that it is unconstitutional cannot "make a case in which the constitutionality of a
law of the United States is drawn in question within the meaning of § 5 of the judiciary act of March 3, 1891. In a number
of previous cases arising under § 3893, the points raised in
this case by the petitioner were passed upon by this court and
decided in favor of the constitutionality of the act. Ex parte
Jackson, 96 U. S. 727, 736; Rosen v. United States, .161 U. S.
29, 42; Dunlop v. United States, 165 U. S. 486; United States
v. Chase, 135 U. S. 255, 261.
This court has also considered convictions obtained under the
act, without indicating any doubt as to its constitutionality.
Grimm v. United States, 156 U. S. 604; Swearingen v. United
States, 161 U. S. 446; Andrews v. United States, 162 U. S. 420;
Price v. United States, 165 U. S. 311.
When this court decides a question of law, it makes the law,
and thereafter there cannot be said to be any question of law
in regard to that proposition which it has already decided.
Kansas v. Bradley, 26 Fed. Rep. 289; Newburyport Water Co.
v. Newburypor, 193 U. S. 561; Lampasas v. Bell, 180 U. S.
276; New Orleans Water Works Co. v. Louisiana, 185 U. S. 336,
344; Spreckels Sugar Refining Co. v. McClain, 192 U. S. 397,
discussed and distinguished from the .present case.
MR. JUSTICE MOODY delivered the opinion of the court.

The petitioner, Bernarr Macfadden, was indicted in the Dis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of, the Court.

213 U. S.

trict Court of the United States for the District of New Jersey
for mailing obscene literature, in violation of § 3893 of the Revised Statutes. He pleaded uot guilty, and upon trial before a
jury was found guilty.
Various questions of law arose in the course of the trial, which
need not be stated.
After the evidence was concluded the petitioner presented
to the presiding judge many requests for instructions to the
jury, which were refused, under exception. For the purposes
of this case four only need to be referred to, and they summarily.
The judge was requested to rule that the statute under which
the indictment was returned was unconstitutional; (a) because
it abridged the freedom of the press; (b) because it was uncertain and created no general rule of conduct, and therefore
the indictment was' without due process of law; (c) because
it was an-ex post facto law; (d) because it delegated legislative
power to the court or jury.
There was a motion in arrest of judgment, which was overruled. Thereupon judgment was entered, and the petitioner
sued out a writ of error to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Third Circuit. That court affirmed the judgment.
After a denial of a petition for a writ of certiorari the petitioner made application to one of the justices of this court fora writ of error, directed to the Circuit Court of Appeals. The
question of the right of the petitioner tosuch a writ of error has
been referred to the full court, and, by direction of the court,
briefs on the part of the United States and the petitioner have
been filed and considered.
The -object of the act of March 3, 1891, c. 517, 26 Stat. 826,
was to distribute the appellate jurisdiction of the Supreme
Court between it and the newly-created Circuit Courts .ofAppeal,
and to abolish the appellate jurisdictionof the CircU'it Courts.
The first necessary step in this undertaking 'was to determine
in what eases appeals (using the word in its broader sense)
might be taken directly to this court. This was done in § 5,
which is as follows:

MACFADDEN v. UNITED STATES.
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"SEC. 5. That appeals or wvrits of error may be taken from
the District Courts or from the existing Circuit Courts direct
to the Supreme Court in the following cases:
. "In any case in which the jurisdiction of the court is in issue;
in such cases the question of jurisdiction alone shall be certified
to the Supreme Court from the court below for decision.
"From the final sentences and decrees in prize causes.
"In cases of conviction of a capital or otherwise infamous
crime.
"In any case that involves the construction or application
of the Constitution of the United States.
"In any case in which the constitutionality of any law of the
United States, or the validity or construction of any treaty
made under its authority, is drawn in question.
"In any case in which the constitution or law of a State is
claimed to be in contravention of the Constitution of the United
States."
Clause 3 of this section has been amended by the act of
January 30, 1897, c. 69, 29 Stat. 492 by striking out the words
"or otherwise infamous."
Assuming, without decision, that the constitutional questions were real and substantial it is clear that a writ of error
might have been sued out originally directly from this court under clause 5. Loeb v. Columbia Township Trustees, 179 U. S.
472. But this was not done, and by the appeal to the Circuit
Court of Appeals the right of direct appeal here was lost. Robinson v. Caldwell, 165 U. S. 359.
Section 6 of the act provides that the Circuit Courts of Appeal
shall exercise appellate jurisdiction "in all cases other than
those provided for in the preceding section of this act," and the
fact that there were in the case questions which would have
warranted a direct appeal, to this court does not deprive the
Circuit Court of Appeals of its jurisdiction. American Sugar
Co. v. New Orleans, 181 U.'S. 277. In the case at bar the Circuit Court of Appeals has assumed jurisdiction and rendered
judgment. May the peti~oner have a Writ of error directed to

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

that judgment? The answer to this question depends upon
whether the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals was final.
The act contemplated that certain judgments of the Circuit
Court of Appeals might be reviewed on writ of error in this
court, and that certain other judgments could not be so reviewed. The line of division is marked in § 6 of the act. It is
to be observed that the line of division between cases appealable
directly to this court and those appealable to the Circuit Court
of Appeals, made by § 5 of the act, is based upon the nature
of the case or of the questions of law raised. But the line of
division between cases appealable from the Circuit Court of
Appeals to this court and those not so appealable, drawn by
§ 6, is different, and is determined, not by the nature of the case
or of the questions of law raised, but by the sources of jurisdiction of the trial court, namely, the Circuit Court or the District
Court, whether the jurisdiction rests upon the character of the
parties or the nature of the case. Huguley Mfg. Co. v. Galeton
Cotton Mills, 184 U. S. 290, where it was said by the Chief Justice, citing cases, "The jurisdiction referred to is the jurisdiction
of the Circuit Court as originally invoked." The difference in
the test for determining whether a case is appealable from the
trial court directly to this court, and the test for determining
whether a case is appealable from the Circuit Court of Appeals
to this court, is important, and a neglect to observe it leads to
confusion.
The statute says that the judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals "shall be final in all cases in which, the jurisdiction
is dependent entirely upon the opposite parties to the suit or
controversy, being aliens and citizens of the United States or
citizens of different States; also in all cases arising under the
patent laws, under the revenue laws, and under the criminal
laws, and in admiralty cases." In all othercases there is a right
of review by this court if the matter in controversy exceeds one
thousand dollars.
As this is a case arising under the criminal laws, the judgment
of the Circuit Court of Appeals rendered within its lawful juris- .

MACFADDEN v. UNITED STATES.
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

diction is, by the very terms of the act, final. And so it was
held in Cary Mfg. Co. v. Acme Flexible Clasp Co., 187 U. S. 427,
this court saying, through the Chief Justice: "Although it is
insisted that the judgment imposing the fine was a final judgment in a criminal matter, it is argued that it involved the denial of constitutional rights, and hence that this court hag jurisdiction under § 5 of that act; but it is settled that even .if a
party might be entitled to come directly to this court under
that section, yet if he does not do so, and carries his case to the
Circuit Court of Appeals, he must abide by the judgment of
that court," and the writ of error to the Circuit Court of Appeals
was accordingly dismissed. Unless this case has been overruled,
it governs the case at bar.
But it is argued that the right to this writ of error is supported
by the decision of this court in Spreckele Sugar Refining Co. v.
McClain, 192 U. S. 397. An examination of that case, however,
shows that the exact decision has no relevancy to the question
now before us. The language of the opinion should be interpreted in the light of the facts of the case. The plaintiff there
brought an action against the collector of internal revenue to
recover certain taxes-imposed by the revenue laws of the United
States, paid by it under protest. The plaintiff's claim as stated
in his declaration was twofold; first, that the taxes were not
due under the act as properly construed; and, second, that the
act itself was unconstitutional. The jurisdiction, therefore, of
the trial court was invoked upon two grounds; first, because it
was a revenue case; and, second, because it arose under the
Constitution, and laws of the United States (25 Stat. 433),
which means that the plaintiff's case thus arose. Louisville &
Nashville R. R. Co. v. Mottley, 211 U. S. 149, and cases cited.
Judgment went against the plaintiff, and it was affirmed by the
Circuit Court of Appeals. A writ of error from this court to the
Circuit Court of Appeals was sued out, and the question was
whether- it would lie. That question, as we have seen it, is de'terminable by the jurisdiction of the trial court. If the jurisdiction depended solely upon the fact that it was a case arising

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Qpinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

under the revenue laws the judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals was a final judgment. If, on the other hand, the jurisdiction depended solely upon the fact that it was a case arising
out of the Constitution or laws of the United States, the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of Appeals was not final, and it was
reviewable upon the writ of error as matter of right in this
court.
Here was a case, then, which in one aspect of the jurisdiction
was reviewable by this court and in another aspect of the jurisdiction was not reviewable here. The precise case had not arisen
before, and the statute was silent upon it. It was held that the
writ of error could be maintained, as the jurisdiction of the trial
court did not depend solely upon grounds which by the terms
of the act would have made the judgment of the Circuit Court
of Appeals final, but depended also upon g&ounds which would
have permitted a writ of error from this court to the Circuit
Court of Appeals. That this was the precise ground of the decision is clear from the whole trend of the reasoning and from the
statement in the opinion, p. 410, that "the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is not final, within the meaning of the
sixth section, in a case which, although arising under a law providing for internal revenue and involving the construction of
that law, is yet a case also involving, from the outset, from the
plaintiff's showing, the construction or application of the Constitution or the constitutionality of an act of Congress." The
case decides nothing more than that where the jurisdiction of
the trial court is shown by the plaintiff's statement of his own
case to rest upon two distinct grounds; first, a ground where
the appellate jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of Appeals was
made final by the statute; and, second, a ground where the
appellate jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of Appeals was made
by the statute reviewable in this court, the latter ground of
jurisdiction would control and the writ of error to the Circuit
Court of Appeals would lie. Thus construed, the case is consistent with all the decisions and has no application here, because
the only ground of jurisdiction of the District Court in the case

UNITED STATES v. EVANS.
Argument for Petitioner

213 U. S.

at bar was that it was, a case arising under the criminal laws.
In such a case the statute makes the judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals final, and it is no less final because the petitioner here might, if he had been so advised, originally have
invoked directly, under § 5 of the act, the appellate jurisdiction
of this court.
We are of the opinion that the writ of error does not lie, and
the application for it is
Denied.

UNITED STATES v. EVANS.
CERTIORARI

TO THE COURT OF APPEALS

OF THE DISTRICT OF

COLUMBIA.

No. 394.

Submitted December 18, 1908.-Decided April 19, 1909.

Under § 935 of the Code of the District of Columbia, act of March 3,
1901, c. 854, 31 Stat. 1341, a writ of error will not lie from the Court
of Appeals to the Supreme Court of the District at the instance of the
Government to review a judgment based on a verdict of not guilty.
When the judgment appealed from cannot be affected by the decision
of the 'appellate court the case becomes a moot one and the appeal
should be dismissed; hearing and deciding such an appeal for the purpose of establishing a rule of observance in cases subsequently arising
is not an exercise of judicial power.
Writ of certiorari to review 30 App. D. C. 58, quashed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

The Solicitor General for petitioner:
Congress clearly intended to give the United States a right
of appeal in criminal cases, after verdict. The statute seems
to be free from doubt or ambiguity. 31 Stat.. 1189, 1341 (§ 935,
Code D. C.).
The policy or wisdom of a statute is for the determination of
the legislature, not of the courts.

