OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Syllabus.

213 U. S.

BOISE ARTESIAN HOT AND COLD WATER COMPANY
v. BOISE CITY.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF IDAHO.

No. 131.

Argued March 17, 1909.-Decided April 5, 199.

Equity will not interpose where there is a remedy at law which is as
complete, practicable and adequate as equity could afford.
As the defense of the unconstitutionality and illegality of a tax is open
in a court of law, injunction should not issue against the enforcement
of the tax merely because it is unconstitutional or illegal unless other'
circumstances bring the case within some clear ground of equity
jurisdiction.
Even though some States may for convenience of remedy permit equity
to enjoin the collection of a tax for mere illegality, courts of a different and paramount sovereignty should not do so, and Federal
courts should not interfere by injunction with the fiscal arrangements of a State if the rights involved can be preserved in any other
manner.
A municipality speaks through its council, and where the bill does not
allege any facts showing threats to remove property of a complainant
public service corporation such action will not be presumed so as to
give equity jurisdiction.
A suit at law by a municipality to collect a license fee imposed by ordinance on a public service corporation contemplates continuarice, and
not restraint, of the business of such corporation, and, as the defense
,of unconstitutionality of the ordinance is open in that suit, equity
should not interfere.'
In order to make the fear of multiplicity of suits a ground for the interposition of a court of equity, more than one suit must have been commenced, and the court should not interfere unless it is clearly necessary to protect complainant from continued and vexatious litigation.
Equity should not enjoin the collection of a tax on the ground of cloud
on title when the tax can only be collected by a suit at law in which
the defense of its illegality is open, and it does not appear that the
tax is a lien on any of complainant's property.

THE facts axe stated in the opinion.

BOISE-ARTESIAN WATER CO. v. BOISE CITY. 277
213 U. S.

Argument for Appellants.

Mr. Richard H. Johnson, with whom Mr. Edgar Wilson and
Mr. Richard Z. Johnson were on the brief, for appella.nts:
An injunction should have been issued by the court below
restraining the city from enforcing -the ordinances, and from
interfering with. plaintiff's use, according to its franchises, of
the streets and alleys. The bill made out a proper case for the
interposition of a court of equity. It shows that the city main-'
tains and insists that the water company's right to use the
streets is a license only, which, is subject to annulment and
revocation at the will of the city, and that the city authorities
have the right to compel the water company to discontinue
the use of the streets and alleys, or to levy burdens and assessments for such use, at their pleasure, and that the city threatens
and intends to impose further burdens and assessments on the
water company for such use and to interfere with its use of the
streets and alleys and has threatened to remove its pipes therefrom and its water works from the city.
The bill also alleged as additional grounds the unconstitutionality of the ordinance; the monthly presentation of bills,
threats of suit, and the presentation of another bill after the suit
had been commenced, showing danger of multiplicity of suits.
It was also averred that the ordinances cast clouds upon the
water company's franchises and depreciate the value of its
property, impair its credit, embarrass its business and reduce
its net. revenue to an unfair and unjust extent which will
amount to.confiscation of its property; and, moreover, that the
enforcement of those ordinances will destroy the water company's franchises and contract rights in violation of Art. I,
§ 10 of the Federal Constitution, and will deprive it of its
property without due process of law, and deny it the equal
protection of the laws.
As the ordinances which the city is seeking to enforce are in
violation of the water company's contract rights and are otherwise unconstitutional, an injunction against their enforcement
is the proper remedy. Vicksburg Waterworks Co. v. Vicksburg,
185 U. S. 65, 82; Vicksburg v. WaterworksCo., 202 U. S. 453;

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Appellee.

213 U. S.

Detroit v. Detroit Citizens' Street Ry. Co., 184 U. S. 368, 378381. See also Walla Walla V. Walla Walla Water Co., 172
U. S. .
Mr. William E. Borah and Mr. Charles M. Kahn, with whom
Mr. Charles P. McCarthy, Mr. Charles C. Cavanah and Mr.
John J. Blake were on the brief, for appellee:
The facts stated in the bill of complaint are insufficient to
entitle plaintiff to any relief in, or to give jurisdiction to a
court of equity.
Under the allegations of the bill the plaintiff has an adequate
remedy at law.
The bill shows that plaintiff's sole object is to secure a decree
of the court declaring the ordinances to be franchises~ for a
period of fifty years; that the ordinance requiring the plaintiff
to pay a license fee be declared void, for a recovery of $2,000.00,
with interest, for the use of water from its system, and declaring
the rates established by the water commission, relating to said
use be valid.
An action at law is, at this time, pending in the state court of
Idaho, by the city against the company for the recovery of
$1,730.00, alleged to be due as such license fee. In that action
at law, the plaintiff, can present to the court all questions as to
the validity of the ordinances and whether it has a franchise
to use the streets for fifty years. The plaintiff could, in said
action at law, either set up its claim for $2,000.00 as a counter
claim in the event the court held the license fee valid, or institute an independent action in a court of law for the recovery of
said amount, as the city, under the allegations of the bill, seems
to be solvent.
Where the relief prayed for is such as a court of law is competent to grant, a court of equity has no jurisdiction.
Suits in equity. shall not be sustained in either of the courts
of the United States, in any case where a plain, adequate and
complete remedy may be had at Jaw. 1 Stat. 82; Rev. Stat.
§ 723. And see Hippv. Babin, 19 How. 271; Fussell v. Gregg,

BOISE ARTESIAN WATER CO. v. BOISE CITY. 279
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

113 U. S. 550; Phoenix Mutual Life Insurance Co. v. Bailey, 13
Wall. 616; New York Guaranty Co. v. Memphis Water Co., 107
U. S. 205.
It appears from the bill in this case that the plaintiff is seeking to restrain the defendant from proceeding with an action
at law in the Idaho state court, brought to recover a certain
sum alleged to be due as a license fee under the ordinance of'
June 7, 1906. In such a case a Circuit Court Of the United States
will not interfere to-enjoin a pending suit at law. Hapgood v.
Hewitt, 119 U. S. 234; Buzard et al. v. Houston, 119 U. S. 351.
See also I High on Injunctions (3d Ed.), §§ 89-93.
MR. JUSTICE MOODY delivered the opinion of the court.
The appellant, a West Virginia corporation, brought in the
Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Idaho,
this bill in equity against Bcaise City, a municipal corporation.
There was a demurrer to the bill, which, upon consideration
of the merits of the case set forth therein, was sustained by the
judge of the Circuit Court and the bill dismissed. The company
appealed directly to this court. The facts set forth in the bill
and exhibits, and the relief and grounds of relief claimed, so
far as necessary to develop the point decided, may conveniently
be stated in narrative form.
The company was incorporated for and is engaged in supplying the city and its inhabitants with water for municipal and
domestic purposes. It had acquired the property, franchises,
rights and privileges of certain individuals and corporations,
who had been, from time to time, granted by ordinance of the
city the privilege of laying and maintaining pipes in the streets
and supplying through them water for municipal and domestic
uses. The company conducted its business by virtue of these
ordinances, and has invested large sums of money. The ordinances need not be set forth in detail, and it is enough to say
that the company contends that they are franchises for a term
of not less than fifty years, and constitute a contract incon-

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

sistent with the license fee or tax hereafter referred to, while
the city contends that they are mere permissions, revocable at
any time. The rates are fixed by commissioners, acting under
the authority of a law of the State, and are to remain in force
three years from the date of their establishment. After the
fixing of the rates and before the expiration of the three years,
on the thirty-first day of May, 1906, the. city enacted an ordinance requiring that the company "hereafter pay to said Boise
City, on the first day of each and every month, a monthly license
of $300, for the privilege granted . . . to lay and repair
water pipes in the streets and alleys of said city." The ordinance then made a demand for the monthly payment of said
license, and directed the city clerk to notify the company of the
requirements of the ordinance.
The main object of the bill is to obtain an injunction against
the enforcement of this ordinance, upon the grounds: (1) that
other corporations, associations and individuals using the streets
and alleys of the city for various purposes are not required to
pay a license, and therefore there was, by the ordinance, a denial
of the equal protection of the laws; (2) that the city, in pursuance of its claim that the ordinances grant only a revocable
permission to occupy the streets, threatens and intends to impose further burdens and assessments, and threatens to remove
the pipes and the works from the city; (3) that the city has
presented monthly bills and has brought an. action at law in the
state court to recover the amount., alleged to be due on account
of the license fee imposed, and that there is therefore danger
of a multiplicity of suits; (4) that the ordinance has cast a cloud
upon the company's franchises and right to supply water to
the city and its inhabitants, and thereby depreciated the value
of the company's property, impaired ita credit, embarrassed
its business and confiscated its property; (5) that the ordinance
impairs the obligation of the contract made by the ordinances
granting the rights, privileges and franchises; (6)that the enforcement, of the ordinance would deprive the company of its
property without due process of law and abridge its privileges

BOISE ARTESIAN WATER CO. v. BOISE CITY. 281
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

and immunities granted by the Fourteenth Amendrhent; (7) and
that the ordinance violates the constitution and laws of the State.
A subordinate object of the bill is to recover from the city
certain amounts due on account of water supplied to fire hydrants, which the city declines to pay, disputing its liability
so to do.
The decree of the court below, dismissing the bill, proceeded'
upon a consideration of the merits of the controversy between.
the parties. We do not enter upon that subject, because there
is a deeper question which seems to us decisive of the case. That
quetion is whether the plaintiff is entitled, on the allegationo"
of its bill, to relief in equity in the Federal courts.
It is obvious that the rights of which the company seeks to
avail itself are rights cognizable in a court of law, and not
rights created only by the principles of equity. The sum of the
company's contentions is that the imposition of the license fee
was illegal, unconstitutional; and void. All these contentions
are open in a court of law. It is .a guiding rule in equity that
in such a case it will not interpose where there is a plain, adequate and complete remedy at law. This rule at an .early date
was crystallized into statute form by the sixteenth section of
the Judiciary Act (Revised Statutes, § 723), which, if it has no
other effect, emphasizes the rule and presses it upon the attention of courts. New York &c. Co. v. Memphis WaterCo., 107
U. S. 205, 214. It isso well settled and has so often been acted
upon that no authority need be cited in its support, though it
must not be forgotten that the legal remedy must be as complete, practicable and efficient as that which equity could-afford.,
Walla Walla v. Walla Walla Water Co., 172 U. S. 1, 11.
A notable application of the rule in-the courts of the United
States has been to cases where a demand has been made to eajoin the collection of taxes or other impositions made by st- te
authority, upon the ground that they are illegal or unconst4 .t.
tional. The decisions of the state courts in cases of this kAC(
are in conflict, and we need not 'examine them. It is a m.::
matter of choice of convenient remedy for a State to permnA

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

its courts to enjoin the collection of a state tax, because it is
illegal or unconstitutional. Very different considerations arise
where courts of a different, though paramount, sovereignty
interpose in the same manner and for the same reasons. An
examination of the decisions of this court shows that a proper
reluctande to interfere by prevention with the fiscal operations
of the state governments has caused it to refrain from so doing
in all cases where the Federal rights of the persons could otherwise be preserved unimpaired. It has been held uniformly
that the illegality or unconstitutionality of a state or municipal
tax or imposition is not of itself a ground for equitable relief
in the courts of the United States. In such -ase the aggrieved
party is left to his remedy at law, when that remedy is as complete, practicable and efficient as the remedy in equity. And
the rule applies as well where the right asserted is by way of
defense. Insurance Co. v. Bailey, 13 Wall. 616, 623.
In order to give equity jurisdiction there must be shown, in
addition to the illegality or unconstitutionality of the tax or
imposition, other circumstances bringing the case under some
recognized head of equity jurisdiction, before the remedy by
injunction can be awarded. The leading case on the subject
is Dows v. Chicago, 11 Wall. 108. In that case the plaintiff
sought to enjoin the collection of a tax levied upon shares of
the capital stock of a national bank on the ground that the levy
was unconstitutional under the state law, and that the property
was not within the jurisdiction of the State. This court declined to pass upon the validity of the tax, saying, through Mr.
Justice Field (p. 109):
"The illegality of the tax and the threatened sale of shares
for its payment constitute of themselves alone no ground for
such interposition. There must be some special circumstances
attending a threatened injury of this kind, distinguishing it
from a common trespass, and. bringing the case under some
recognized head of equity jurisdiction before the preventive
remedy of injunction can be invoked. -It is upon taxation that
the several States chiefly rely to obtain the means to carry On

BOISE ARTESIAN WATER CO. v. BOISE CITY.
213 U. S.

2S3

Opinion of the Court.

their respective governments, and it is of the'utmost importance
to all of them that the modes adopted to enforce the taxes
levied should be interfered with as little as possible.
"No Court of equity will, therefore, allow its injunction to
issue to restrain their action, except where it may be necessary
to protect the rights of the citizen whose property is taxed, and
he has no adequate remedy by the ordinary processes of the
law. It must appear that the enforcement of the tax would
lead to a multiplicity of suits,,or produce irreparable injury, or,
where the property is real estate, throw a cloud upon the title
of the complainant, before the aid of.a Court of equity can be
invoked."
This case has been frequently followed and its governing
principle never doubted. Hannewinkle v. Georgetown, 15 Wall.
547; State Railroad Tax Cases, 92 U. S. 575, 613; Union Pacific
Railway Co. v. Cheyenne, 113 U. S..516, 525, 526; Milwaukee
v. Koefiler, 116 U. S. 219; Pittsburgh &c. Ry. Co. v. Board of
Pub. Works, 172 U. S. 32; Arkansas Building &c. Association v.
Madden, 175 U. S. 269.
In the case last dited, Mr Chief Justice Fuller made the following important observation (p. 274):
It is quite possible that in cases of this sort the validity of a
law may be more conveniently tested, by the party denying it,
by a bill in equity than by an action at law; but considerations
of that character, while they may explain, do not justify, resort
to that mode of proceeding."
In Shelton v. Platt, 139 U. S. 591, a bill was filed in the Circuit
Court of the United States to restrain the collection of a lidense
tax imposed by the State of Tennessee on the United States
Express Company, upon the ground that it was unconstitutional. The bill alleged that the property of the company was
employed, in interstate commerce and was necessary to the
conduct of it, and that if it were seized by the sheriff it would
greatly embarrass the company in the conduct of its interstate
business, subject it to heavy damage and the public to great

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

loss and inconvenience, and that the company was without
adequate remedy at law. A plea alleged that the only remedy
under the laws of the State was to pay the taxes under protest
and bring suit to recover them back. The plaintiff had an injunction from the lower court. This court reversed the decree
upon appeal, upon the ground that the remedy in equity would
not lie merely because the tax was unconstitutional, unless
there were allegations in the bill otherwise bringing the case
within some acknowledged head of equity jurisdiction, and that
the allegations of the bill were not sufficient to do this. This
case was followed in Allen v. Pullman's Palace Car
Co., 139
U. S. 658, and in Pacific Express Co. v. Seibert, 142 U. S.339,
where a tax was alleged to be unconstitutional because imposed
upon interstate commerce, because it denied to the taxpayer
the equal protection of the laws, and because it was void for
repugnancy to the constitution of the State.
A brief reference to some cases cited by the company, in which
this court has asserted the'authority of equity to interfere, will
define the rule quite as well as the cases in which the court has
declined to exercise the power of injunction. In Walla Walla
v. Walla Walla Water Co., supra, the city was about to construct, in violation of its contract, a competing water plant,
and the resulting damage to the company would have been
irreparable. The same conditions existed in Vicksburg Waterworks Co. v. Vicksburg, 185 U. S.65. See same case, 202 U. S.
453. In Detroit v. Detroit Citizens' St. Ry. Co., 184 U. S.368,
a schedule of rates for transportation of passengers was fixed
in violation of the contract rights of the company, and possible
suits would be limited only by the number of passengers. The
same condition existed in Cleveland v. Cleveland City Ry. Co.,
194 U. S. 517; and see Ex parte Young, 209 U. S.123, where
the grounds of 'the jurisdiction in equity in rate cases are fully
set forth and discussed. In Ogden City v. Armstrong, 168 U. S.
224, not only was there danger of a multiplicity of suits, but the
tax there in question was a lien upon realty and a cloud on the
title.

BOISE ARTESIAN WATER CO. v. BOISE CITY.
213 U. S.

285

Opinion of the Court.

It is safe to say that no case can be found where this court has
deliberately approved the issuance of an injunction against the
enforcement of an ordinance resting on state authority, merely
because it was illegal or unconstitutional, unless further circumstances were shown which brought the case within some
clear ground of equity jurisdiction.
These decisions make it clear that an injunction ought not
to be granted unless the bill, besides alleging illegality and unconstitutionality of the ordinance imposing the license fee, sets
forth other circumstances which bring the case within some
acknowledged head of equity jurisdiction. The only suggestions
of this kind which the bill presents are that the enforcement of
the ordinance will lead to irreparable injury, to multiplicity of
suits, and cast a cloud upon the company's title to its franchises.
But there is nothing in the bill which leads us to suppose that
any of these results would be brought about by leaving the
company to its defense at law. If the citr had taken any steps
indicating a purpose to remove the pipes and works of the company from the streets of the city and t8 deny it the right to
continue its business, there would be clear reason for the interposition of a court of equity, for if that were done illegally or
unconstitutionally an injury would be inflicted for which the
law could afford no adequate remedy. In such a case it would
be the plain duty of a court of equity to arrest the destructive
steps until their legality or constitutionality could be determined. Such a course would be for the best interests of both
parties.
It is true that the bill contains a vague allegation that the
city has threatened to remove the company's pipes and works
from the city, but no facts whatever are alleged showing such
a threat. The city does not speak except by its council, and
nothing has been said or done by it in this direction. On the
contrary, the imposition of the license fee and the -bringing of
a suit for its recovery contemplate continuance and not restraint of the business of the company.
Nor do we think that there is any danger of a multiplicity

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

of suits in the sense that would authorize the issuance of an
injunction. One suit only has been brought, and that by direction of the city council. It remains pending, and when it
reaches judgment it will determine finally every question in
dispute between the parties. There is no need of any other suit
except to prevent the running of the statute of limitations and
nothing to indicate that any will be brought. Where the
multiplicity of suits to be. feared consists in repetitions of suits
by the same person against the plaintiff for causes of action
arising out of the same facts and legal principles, a court of
equity ought not to interfere upon that ground unless it is
clearly necessary to protect the plaintiff from continued and
vexatious litigation. Something more is required than the
beginning of a single action with an honest purpose to settle
the rights of the parties. 1 Pomeroy's Eq. Juris., 3d ed., § 254.
Perhaps it might be necessary to await the final decision of one
action at law (see for analogies Sharon v. Tucker, 144 U. S. 533;
Boston &c. Mining Co. v. Montana Ore Co., 188 U. S. 632), but
that we need not decide.
Nor do we think that the ordinance casts a cloud upon the
title of the company to its franchises. It is not a lien upon them
or upon any other property of the company. The city's only
remedy is "thatwhich it has employed-an action at law for the
collection of the license fee. The plaintiff's real point here is,
not that the ordinance imposing a license fee casts a cloud upon
its title, but that the reason alleged to have induced the ordinance, namely, the city's claim that the company has no more
than a mere permission to occupy the streets, unfavorably
affects its property and impairs its credit. But we cannot restrain a belief or an expression of it and are not asked to. We
are asked only to restrain an ordinance which in no way fixes
a lien or cloud upon the plaintiff's title. It is possible that the
ordinance imposing the license fee could be sustained, without
passing upon the nature of the company's tenure of its privileges.
On the other hand, it might be condemned without regard to
that consideration.

BOISE ARTESIAN WATER CO. v. BOISE CITY. 287
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Here is a case where every possible defense to the collection
of the license fee, which has been suggested by the company, is
available to it in the action at law pending in the courts of the
State of Idaho, and there is no reason whatever shown why the
law should not take its course. Presumably, the company, on
the ground of diversity of citizenship, might have removed the
case from the state court to the Circuit Court of the United
States, if the attempt had been seasonably made. If, however,
the litigation continues up to the court of final resort of the
State of Idaho, and all claims under the Constitution of the
United States are seasonably and properly made in the state
courts and are denied, then the company would be entitled to
a review by this court of the judgment of the state court.
The attempt to recover the hydrant rentals is so clearly a
matter for a court of law that nothing need be said of it.
The Circuit Court dismissed the bill for entirely different
reasons than those which have influenced us. We neither approve nor disapprove those reasons nor intimate any opinion
whatever upon the questions passed on by the Circuit Court.
It would be superfluous formalism to reverse the decree of the
court below and remand the case to that court, with instructions to dismiss the bill for the reasons given in this opinion,
for that court has already dismissed the bill. Therefore; the
decree of the court below is

Affirne d.

