HEPNER v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

213 U. S.

of the United Stdtes is limited by the very terms of the statute
to authority to reexamine the particular decisions which the
statute embraces, but also because of the whole context, which
clearly indicates that the purpose was to confine the right given
to a review of the decisions enumerated in the statute, leaving
all other questions to be controUed by the general mode of procedure governing the same."
So far as that statute is an innovation in criminal jurisdiction
in certain classes of prosecutions, it cannot be extended beyond
its terms.
Writ of certioraridismissed.
MR. JUSTICE MOODY took no part in the consideration and

disposition of this case.

HEPNER v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 626.

Argued March 2, 1909.-Decided April 5, 1909'

A penalty may be recovered by a civil action, although such an action
may be so far criminal in its nature that the defendant cannot be
compelled to testify against himself therein in respect to any matter

involving his being guilty of a criminal offense.
A suit brought by the United States to recover the penalty prescribed
by §§ 4 and 5 of the Alien Immigration Act of March 3, 1903,'c. 1012,
32 Stat. 1213. is a civil suit and not a criminal prosecution, and when
it appears by undisputed testimony that a defendant has committed

an offense against those sections the trial judge may direct a verdict
in favor of the Government.

THE facts, which involve the right of a trial judge to direct
a verdict in favor of the Government in an action for penalty

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

for violation of the Alien Immigration Law, are stated in the
opinion.
Mr. S. P. McConnell, for William Hepner, submitted.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Ellis, with whom Mr. Edwin
P. Grosvenor was on the brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This action of debt was brought by. the United States to
recover a penalty under the statute of Congress of March 3,
1903, regulating the immigration- of- aliens into this country.
32 Stat. 1213, 1214, c. 1012. The case is now before this court
upon a question certified by the judges of the Circuit Court of
Appeals under the authority of § 6 of the Judiciary Act of
March 3, 1891.. 26 Stat. 826, c. 517.
Sections 4 and 5 of the act of 1903, are as follows:
"SEC. 4. That it shall be unlawful for any person, company,
partnership, or corporation, in any manner whatsoever, to
prepay the transportation or in any way to assist or. encourage
the importation or migration of any alien into the United States,
in pursuance of any offer, solicitation, promise, or agreement,
parole or special, expressed or implied, made previous to the
importation of such alien to perform labor or service of any
kind, skilled or unskilled, in the United States.
"SEC. 5. That for every violation of any of the provisions
of section four of this act the person, partnership, company,
or corporation violating the same, by knowingly assisting,
encouraging, or soliciting the migration or importation of any
alien to the United States to perform labor or service of any
kind by reason of any offer, solicitation, promise, or agreement,
express or implied, parole or special, to or with such alien shall
forfeit and pay for every such offense the sum of one thousand
dollars, which may be sued for and recovered by the United
States, or by any person who shall first bring his action there-

HEPNER v. UNITED STATES.
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

for in his own name and for his own benefit, including any such
alien thus promised labor or service of any kind as aforesaid,
as debts of like amount are now recovered in the courts of the
United States; and separate suits may be brought for each
alien thus promised labor or service of any kind as aforesaid.
And it shall be the duty of the district attorney of the proper
district to prosecute every such suit when brought by the
United States."
In the present action there was a judgment for the United
States against the defendant Hepner for the prescribed penalty
of one thousand dollars. It is certified by the judges of the
Circuit Court of Appeals, to which the case was taken upon
writ of error, that the testimony showed that an alien was.
induced by an offer, solicitation, or promise of the defendant to migrate to the United States for the purpose of performing labor here.
The question propounded to this court by the judges of the
Circuit Court of Appeals is: "When it appears by undisputed
Sestimony that a defendant has committed an offense against
secs. 4 and 5 of the act of March 3, 1903, may the trial judge
direct a verdict in favor of the Government, plaintiff, which has
sued for the $1,000 forfeited by such offense under said section 5?"
Is this to be deemed as, in all substantial respects, 4_civil suit
asdistinguished from a strictly criminal case or criminal prosecution? This must be first determined before answering the
specific question propounded by the judges below. It is well
to look at some of the adjudications in suits for statutory
penalties.
In Stockwefl v. United States, 13 Wall. 531, 542, 543-which
was an action of debt brought by the United States to recover
forfeitures and penalties incurred under the act of Congress of
March 3, 1823, 3 Stat. 781, c. 58, relating to the entry of merchandise imported into the United States from any adjacent
territory-the question arose whether a civil action could be
maintained by the Government. That act provided, among

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

other things, that any one receiving, concealing, or buying
goods, wares or merchandise, knowing them to have been illegally imported and liable to seizure, "shall, on conviction
thereof, forfeit and pay a sum double the amount or value of
the goods, wares, or merchandise, so received, concealed, or
purchased." The defendant in that case insisted that the
Government could not proceed by a civil suit to recover the
penalty specified in the statute-based, as that penalty was,
on an offense against law-except by indictment or information.
The court rejected .that view, and, speaking by Mr. Justice
Strong, said:" No authority has been adduced in support of this
position, and it is believed that none exists. It cannot be that
whether an action of debt is maintainable or not depends upon
the quest on who is the plaintiff. Debt lies whenever a sum
certain is due to the plaintiff, or a sum which can readily be
reduced to a certainty-a sum requiring no future valuation
to settle its amount. It is not necessarily founded upon contract. It is immaterial in what manner the obligation was
incurred, or by what it is evidenced, if the sum owing is capable
of being definitely ascertained. The act of 1823 fixes the
amount of the liability at double thevalue of the goods received,
concealed, or purchased, and the only party injured by the
illegal acts, which subject the perpetrators to the liability, is
the United States. It would seem, therefore, that whether the
liability incurred is to be regarded as a penalty, or as liquidated
damages for an injury done to the United States, it is a debt,
and as such it must be recoverable in a civil action. But all
doubts respecting the matter are set at rest by the fourth section
of the act, which enacted that all penalties and forfeitures incurred by force thereof shall be sued for, recovered, distributed,
and accounted for in the manner prescribed by the act of March
2, 1799, entitled 'An act to regulate the collection of duties on
imports and tonnage.' By referring to § 89 of that act, March
2, 1799, c. 22, 1 Stat. 627, 695, it will be seen that it directs all
penalties, accruing by any breach of the act, to be sued for and
recovered, with costs of suit, in the name of the United States

HEPNER v. UNITED STATES.
213 u. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of America, in any court competent to try the same; and the
collector, within whose district a forfeiture shall have been
incurred, is enjoined to cause suits for the same to be commenced without delay. This manifestly contemplates civil
actions, as does the proviso to the same section, which declares
that no action or prosecution shall be maintained in any case
under the act, unless the same shall have been commenced
within three years after the penalty or forfeiture was incurred.
Accordingly, it has frequently been ruled that debt will lie, at
the suit of the United States, to recover the penalties and forfeitures imposed by statutes. It is true that the statute of
1823 imposes the forfeiture and liability to pay double the value
of the goods received, concealed, or purchased, with knowledge
that they had been illegally imported, 'on conviction thereof.'
It may be, therefore, that an indictment or information might
be sustained. But. the question now is, whether a civil action
can be brought, and, in view of the provision that all penalties
and forfeitures incurred by force of the act shall 'be sued for
and recovered,' as prescribed by the act of 1799, we are of
opinion that debt is maintainable. The expression, 'sued for
and recovered' is primarily applicable to civil actions, and not.
to those of a criminal nature."
In Jacob v. UnitedStates, 1 Brock. 520, 525, the question-arose
whether the United States could maintain ai action of -debt to
recover the specific sum which an act of Congress (December
21, 1814, c. 15, 3 Stat. 152, 155), providing for additional
revenue declared should be forfeited and paid by any person
guilty of the offense of forcibly rescuing or causing to be arrested, any spirits, etc., after the same had been seized by the
collector. Chief Justice Marshall held that an action of that
kind was a "civil cause" (September 24, 1789, c. 20 p. 73,
1 Stat. 73, 76), within the meaningof the tninth section of the
Judiciary Act of 1789, defining, the jurisdiction of the District
Courts of the United States. In Stearns v. United States, 2
Paine, 300, Mr. Justice Thompson, in the Circuit Court of the
UnitedIStates-for the District of Vermont, held that actions

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

for penalties were civil actions, both in form and in substanceciting 3 Blackstone's Com. 158, and Atcheson v. Everitt, 1 Cowp.
382, 391. In the latter case, which was an action of debt, based
upon an English statute, Lord Mansfield said that a penal action
'is as much a civil action as an action for money had and received." A similar ruling was made by Mr. Justice Iredell in
United States v. Mundell, 1 Hughes, 415, 423 (6 Call, 245, 253),
which was an action of debt by the United States to recover a
penalty prescribed by an act of Congress. The court said: "It is
scarcely necessary to stop here to observe, that the proceeding in
question was not a proceeding in a criminal case within the
meaning of the provisions of Congress, but was in truth a civil
suit, though for an act of disobedience for which a criminal prosecution might possibly have been commenced, if the act of Congress does not expressly, or impliedly, exclude it; a point not
now material to consider, because the civil suit has, in this
instance, been in fact adopted. A criminal proceeding, unquestionably, can only be by indictment, or information. The
proceeding in question was neither." Similar views as to the
civil nature of actions for penalties were expressed in United
States v. Younger, 92 Fed. Rep. 672; United States v. B. & 0.
S. W. R. Co., 159 Fed. Rep. 33, 38; Hawlowetz v. Kass, 23
Blatch. 395. See, also, Chaffee & Co. v. United States, 18 Wall.
516, 538; Wilson v. Rastall, 4 Term, 753; Roberge v. Burnham,
124 Massachusetts 277, 279; People v. Briggs, 114 N. Y. 56,
64, 65; Mitchell v. State, 12 Nebraska, 538, 540; Webster v.
People, 14 Illinois, 365, 367; Hitchcock v. Munger, 15 N. H.
97, 103, 134; State v. Brown, 16 Connecticut, 54, 59.
It must be taken as settled law that a certain sum, or a sum
which can readily be reduced to a certainty, prescribed in a
statute as a penalty for the violation of law, may be recovered
by civil action, even if it may also be recovered in a proceeding
which is technically criminal. Of course, if the statute by which
the penalty was imposed contemplated recovery only by a
criminal proceeding, a civil remedy could not be -adopted.
United States v. Claflin, 97 U. S. 546. But there can be no

HEPNER v. UNITED STATES.
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

doubt that the words of the statute on which the present suit
is based are broad enough to embrace, and were intended to
embrace, a civil action to recover the prescribed penalty. It
provides that the penalty of one thousand dollars may be "sued
for" and recovered by the.United States or by any "person"
who shall first bring his "action" therefor "in his own name
and for his own benefit," "as debts of like amount are now recovered in the courts of the United States;" and "separate
suits" may be brought for each alien thus promised labor or
service of any kind. The district attorney is required to prosecute every such "suit" when brought by the United States.
These references in the statute to the proceeding for recovering
the penalty plainly indicate that a civil action is an appropriate
mode of proceeding.
A case to which attention is called by both sides is United
States v. Zucker, 161 U. S. 475, 481. What'was that case? It
makes, we think, for the Government rather than the defendant;
for, that was a civil action to recover from the defendants a
certain sum as the value of merchandise originally belonging
to them and alleged to have been forfeited to the United States
under the Customs Administrative Act of June 10, 1890, c. 407,
26 Stat. 131, 135. That act provided in reference to merchandise entered by means of fraudulent or false invoices, etc., that
"such merchandise, or the value thereof, to be recovered from
the person making the entry, shall be forfeited,

.

.

.

and

such person shall, upon conviction, be fined for each offense a
sum not exceeding five thousand dollars, or be imprisoned for
a time not exceeding two years, or both, in the discretion of the
court." § 9. At the trial, the Government offered in evidence,
against the defendants,' a deposition taken in Paris, properly
authenticated. It was not objected, in that case, that a civil
action could not be brought by the Government to recover the
penalty prescribed. The question considered was whether a
deposition of an absent witness could be used against the objec-,
tion of the defendants, who insisted that the action, although
civil in form, was, in substance, a criminal case, and that they

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

were, for that reason, entitled, under the Sixth Amendment
of the Constitution, to be confronted, in court, with the witnesses against them. The objection was sustained by the trial
court, but this court, upon writ of error sued out by the United
States, held that that Amendment related to a prosecution of
an accused that was technically criminal in its nature. The
court said: "The words in the Sixth Amendment, 'to be informed of the nature and cause of the accusation,' obviously
refer to a person accused of crime, whether a felony or misdemeanor for which he is prosecuted by indictment or presentment, or in some other authorized mode which may involve his
personal security. So the clause declaring that the accused,
in a criminal prosecution, is entitled 'to be confronted with the
witnesses against him,' has no reference to any proceeding
(although the evidence therein may disclose, of a necessity, the
commission of a public offense) which is not directly against a
person who is accused, and upon whom a fine or imprisonment,
or both, may be imposed. A witness who proves facts entitling
the plaintiff in a proceeding in a court of the United States,
even if the plaintiff be the Government, to a judgment for
money only, and not to a judgment which directly involves
the personal safety of the defendant, is not, within the meaning
of the Sixth Amendment, a witness against an 'accused' in a
criminal prosecution; and his evidence may be brought before
the jury, in the form of a deposition, taken as prescribed by the
statutes regulating the mode in which depositions to be used
in the courts of the United States may be taken. The defendant, in such a case, is no more entitled to be confronted at thh
trial with the witnesses of the plaintiff than he would be in a
case where the evidence related to a claim for money that could
be established without disclosing any facts tending to show the
commission of crime." Again: "Aia action, in which a judgment
for money only is sought, even, if in some aspects it is one of a
penal nature, may be brought wherever the defendant is found
and is served with process, unless some statute requires it to be
brought in a particular jurisdiction."

HEPNER v. UNITED STATES.
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Two things, then, appear from the Zucker case: 1. That it
recognized an action to recover a penalty to be a civil action,
and a proper mode of procedure. 2. That in such an action the
defendant was not entitled, by virtue of the Constitution, to be
confronted in court with the witnesses against him. No such
question as the last one arises in this case. But the decision in
the Zucker case is important in that it recognizes the right of
the Government, by a civil action of debt, to recover a statutory
penalty, although such penalty arises from the commission of
a public offense. It is important also in that it decides that
an action of that kind is not of such a criminal nature as to
preclude the Government from establishing, according to the
practice in strictly civil cases, its right to a judgment by depositions taken in the usual form, without confronting the defendant with the witnesses against him.
The defendant insists that the case of Lees v. United States,
150 U. S. 476, 480, is an authority in his favor. This view
cannot be sustained. That case was a civil action to recover
a penalty for importing an alien into the United States to perform labor, in violation of the act of February 26, 1885. 23
Stat. 332, c. 164. In that case the trial court compelled one of
the defendants to testify for the United States and furnish
evidence against himself. This court held that that could not
be done, saying that "this, though an action civil in form, is
unquestionably criminal in its nature, and in such a case a
defendant cannot be compelled to be a witness against himself,"
meaning thereby only that the action was not of such a criminal
nature as to prevent the use of depositions. Among the authorities cited in the Lees case was Boyd v. United States, 116
U. S. 616, 634. In the latter case it was adjudged that penalties
and forfeitures incurred by the commission of offenses against
the law are of such a quasi-criminal nature that they come
within the reason of criminal proceedings for the purposes of the
Fourth Amendment of the Constitution and of that part of the
Fifth Amendment declaring that no person shall be compelled
in any criminal case to be a witness against himself.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

So that the Lees and Boyd cases do not modify or disturb but
recognize the general rule that penalties may be recovered by
civil actions, although such actions may be so far criminal in
their nature that the defendant cannot be compelled to testify
against himself in such actions in respect to any matters involving, or that may involve, his being guilty of a criminal
offense. Those cases do not negative the proposition that the
court may direct a verdict for the plaintiff in a civil action to
recover statutory penalties or forfeitures, if the evidence is
'."undisputed" that the defendant by his acts incurred the
penalty for the offense out of which the civil cause of action
wises. That proposition has the support both of reason and
authority. Certainly, if the evidence in this case, beyond. all
dispute, showed that the plaintiff was not entitled to judgment,
then the duty of the court would have been to direct a verdict
for the defendant. The general rule on that point is thus stated
in Pleasants v. Fant, 22 Wall. 116, 122: "In the discharge of
this duty it is the province of the court, either before or after
the verdict, to decide whether the plaintiff has given evidence
sufficient to support or justify a verdict in his favor. Not
whether on all the evidence the preponderating weight is in his
favor, that is the business of the jury, but conceding to all the
evidence offered the greatest probative force which according
to the law of evidence it is fairly entitled to, is it sufficient to.
justify a verdict? If it does not, then it is the duty of the court
after a verdict to set it aside and grant a new trial. Must the
court go through the idle ceremony in such a case of submitting
to the jiiry the testimony on which plaintiff relies, when it Is
clear to the judicial mind that if the jury should find a verdict
-in favor of plaintiff that verdict would be set aside and a new
trial had? Such a proposition is absurd, and accordingly we
hold the true principle to 6e, that if the court is satisfied that,
conceding all the inferences which the jury could justifiably
draw from.the testimony, the evidence is insuffiicient to warrant
a verdict for the plaintiff, the court should sa. so to the jury."
This rule has been often approved by this court, and is steadily

HEPNER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

enforced in the courts of the United States. The same rule
must obtain as to the duty of the court, when the undisputed
testimony shows that the defense is without any foundation
upon which to rest, and that the plaintiff is undisputably entitled, upon the facts and as matter of law, to a judgment. In
Herbert v. Butler, 97 U. S. 319, 320. this court, referring to Improvement Company v. Munson, 14 Wall. 442, and Pleasants
v. Fant, above cited, and -speaking by Mr. Justice Bradley,
that although there may be some evidence in
said:
favor of a party, yet if it is insufficient to sustain a verdict, so
that.one based thereon would be set aside, the court is not bound
to submit the case to the jury, but may direct them what Verdict
to render." In Bowditch v. Boston, 101 U. S. 16, 18, the court
said: "It is now a set1led rule in the courts of the United States
that whenever, in the trial of a civil case, it is clear that the
state of the evidence is such as not to warrant a verdict for a
party, and that if such a verdict were rendered the other party
would be entitled to a new trial, it is the right and duty of the
judge to direct the jury to find according to the views of the
court. Such is the constant practice, and it is a convenient one.
It saves time and expense. It gives scientific certainty to the
law in its application -to the facts and promotes the ends of
justice." In Anderson County Commissioners v. Beal, 113 U. S.
227, 241, the court, referring to Herbert v. Butler, above cited,
and other cases, said: "It is true that, in the above cases, the
verdict was directed for the defendant. But where the question,
after all the evidence is in, is one entirely of law, a verdict may,
at the trial, be directed for the plaintiff, and where the bill of
exceptions, as here, sets forth all the evidence in the case, this
court, if concurring with the court below in its views on the
questions of law presented by the bill of exceptions and the
record, will affirm the judgment."'
True, the cases just cited were purely civil in their nature,
and there is in the. present case no bill of exceptions, disclosirig
the evidence adduced at the trial, but we have-something here
more specific-a certified question which, in effect, requires the
.

VOL, CCXIII-8

414

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opimon of the Court.

213 U. S.

court to assume, as the basis of any answer to the question, that,
according to the undisputed testimony, the Government proved
the alleged violation of law. In such a case there are no facts
for the jury to consider. Whether, under the undisputed testimony, the plaintiff was entitled to judgment was manifestly
only a question of law, in respect of which it was the duty of the
jury to follow the direction of the court. Even in technical
criminal cases it is the duty of the jury to accept the law as
declared by the court. Sparf and Hansen v. United States, 156
U. S. 51, 101, and cases tere'cited. If in a civil action to recover
a penalty the defendant is entitled, the evidence being undispuuted, to have a peremptory instruction in his behalf, it is
difficult to perceive why the Government is not entitled to a
peremptory instruction in its favor, where the undisputed tes.timony left no facts for the jury to consider, but established,
beyond all question and as matter of law, its right to judgment
for the prescribed penalty. In Four Packages v. United States,
97 U. S. 404, 412, which was a proceeding for the forfeiture of
goods because of their having been taken from the steamer
bringing them into the country, without a permit from the
collector, the jury was directed to find a verdict for the Government. 1 Stat. 665; Gen. Reg. (1857 145. That ruling being
assigned for error, this court said :? "Taken as a whole, the
evidence fully proved that the.Yackages were unladen and delivered without the permil required by the act of Congress;
and inasmuch as there was no opposing testimony, the direction
of the court to the jury to returv a verdict for the plaintiffs was
entirely correct "-citing Improvement Company v. Munsot,
14 Wall. 442; Ryder v. Wombwell, Law Rep. 4 Ex. 39; Law
Rep., 2 P. C. 235. In United States v. Thompson, 41 Fed. Rep.
28, which was an action to recover a penalty of $1,000 under
the contract labor law, fe court directed a veydict, sayiug:
"There certainly is no question. hee for the jury, as there is no
conflict of testimony. . . . I shall therefore dir'ect a verdict
for the Government for the full amount, $1,000." See also
Hinea v. Darling, 99 Michigan, 47.

UNITED STATES v. MASON.
Syllabus.

213 U. S.

The objection made in behalf of the defendant, that an affirmative answer to the question certified could be used so as to
destroy the constitutional right of trial by jury, is without merit
and need not be discussed. The defendant.,as, of course' entitled to have a jury summoned in this case, but that right was
subject to the condition, fundamental 'in
the conduct o civil
actions, that the court may withdraw a case from the jury and
direct a verdict, according to the law if the evidence is uncontradicted and raises only a question of law.
Restricting our decision to civil cases, in which the testimony
is undisputed, and without qualifying former decisions requiring the court to send a case to the jury, under proper instructions as to the law, where the evidence is conflicting on any
essential point, we answer the question here certified in the
affirmative. Let this answer be certified to the court below.
MR. JUSTICE BREWER

dissents.

UNITED STATES v. MASON.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF COLORADO.

No. 642.

Argued March 5, 1909.-Decided April 5, 1909.

On an appeal taken in a criminal case by the United States under the
act of March 2, 1907, c. 2564, 34 Stat. 1246, from the ruling of the
Circuit.Court sustaining a special plea in bar, this court is limited in
its review to that ruling and cannot consider other grounds of demurrer to the indictment. United States v. Keiiel, 211 U. S. 370, 398.
Section 5509, Rev. Stat., does not embrace any felony or misdemeanor
against a State of which, prior to the trial in Federal court of the Federal offense the defendants had been lawfully acquitted by a state
ourt having full jurisdiction.*

