UNITED STATES v. EVANS.
Argument for Petitioner

213 U. S.

at bar was that it was, a case arising under the criminal laws.
In such a case the statute makes the judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals final, and it is no less final because the petitioner here might, if he had been so advised, originally have
invoked directly, under § 5 of the act, the appellate jurisdiction
of this court.
We are of the opinion that the writ of error does not lie, and
the application for it is
Denied.

UNITED STATES v. EVANS.
CERTIORARI

TO THE COURT OF APPEALS

OF THE DISTRICT OF

COLUMBIA.

No. 394.

Submitted December 18, 1908.-Decided April 19, 1909.

Under § 935 of the Code of the District of Columbia, act of March 3,
1901, c. 854, 31 Stat. 1341, a writ of error will not lie from the Court
of Appeals to the Supreme Court of the District at the instance of the
Government to review a judgment based on a verdict of not guilty.
When the judgment appealed from cannot be affected by the decision
of the 'appellate court the case becomes a moot one and the appeal
should be dismissed; hearing and deciding such an appeal for the purpose of establishing a rule of observance in cases subsequently arising
is not an exercise of judicial power.
Writ of certiorari to review 30 App. D. C. 58, quashed.
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

The Solicitor General for petitioner:
Congress clearly intended to give the United States a right
of appeal in criminal cases, after verdict. The statute seems
to be free from doubt or ambiguity. 31 Stat.. 1189, 1341 (§ 935,
Code D. C.).
The policy or wisdom of a statute is for the determination of
the legislature, not of the courts.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Petitioner.

213 U. S.

The allowance of an appeal for the purpose of settling questions of law, practice and procedure for the guidance of trial
courts in future cases is not new in the legislation of this country. State v. Granville, 45 Ohio St. 264, 278; State v. Buechler,
57 Ohio St. 95; State v. Ruedy, 57 Ohio St. 224; State v. Van
Valkenburg, 60 Indiana, 302; Commonwealth v. Bruce, 79 Kentucky, 560; Commonwealth v. Van Tuil, 1 Metcalf (Ky.), 1;
State v. Ward, 75 Iowa, 637.
Congress undoubtedly had the power to enact § 935 of the
District of Columbia Code. United States v. Sanges, 144 U. S.
310; United States v. Macdonald, 207 U. S. 120; State'v. Lee,
65 Connecticut, 265.
This proceeding is a "case". or "controversy" within the
meaning of the third article of the Constitution of the United
States, by which the judicial power of the United States is extended only to "cases" and "controversies." 2 Story on Const.,
§ 1646; Osborn v. Bank, 9 Wheat. 738, 819; Pacific Whaling
Co. v. United States, 187 U. S.447; Smith v. Adams, 130 U. S.
167; Fisk v. Henarie, 32 Fed. Rep. 417, 423; Home Ins.. Co. v.
North Western Packet Co., 32 Iowa, 223, 238.

But whether this is or not a case or controversy within the
meaning of the third article of the Constitution, it is unnecessary to inquire, because the courts of the District of Columbia
are not of the class referred to in that article, and Congress in
conferring jurisdiction upon them:is not limited, as it is by the
third article of the Constitution with reipect to the inferior
Federal courts, to "cases" and "controversies."
The courts of the District of Columbia are created by Congress by virtue of its authority "to exercise exclusive legislation in all cases whatsoever over such district." Const., Art.
I, § 8, clause 17. In this respect the courts of the District are
to be classed with the territorial courts. This is' the view
clearly intimated in McAllister -v. United States, 141 U. S.174,
184
No counsel appeared for respondents.

UNITED STATES v. EVANS.
213 U. S.

MR. CHIEF

Opinion of the Court.
JUSTICE FULLER

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Appellees were tried under an indictment for murder in the
Supreme Court of the District of Columbia on February 1, 1907,
and found not guilty. The United States appealed to the
Court of Appeals of the District, and assigned error on exceptions taken during the trial to the exclusion of certain evidence.
This right to appeal was claimed under § 935 of the code,
which reads as follows:
"In all criminal prosecutions the Unitea States or the District of Columbia,. as the case may be, shall have the same right
of appeal as is given to the defendant, including the right to
a bill of exceptions; provided, that if on such appeal it shall
be'found that there was error in the rulings of the court during
the trial, a verdict in favor of the defendant shall not..be set
aside."
The appeal was dismissed for want of jurisdiction, and the
case brought here on certiorari.
The case of United States v.'Sanges, 144 U. S. 310, reiterated
the then well-settled rule that the right of review in criminal.
cases was limited to review at the instance of the defendant
after a decision in favor of the Government. United States v.
Dickinson, ante, p. 92.
In United States v. Evans, 28 App. D. C. 264, under § 935 of
the code, the right was exercised without question in a case
where an indictment had been set aside oit demurrer, and Chief
Justice Shepard, in delivering the opinion of the court in this
case (30 App. D. C. 58), said:
"It may be assumed also that such a.writ of error
would lie
to review a judgment arresting a judgment of conviction for
the insufficiency of the indictment, or one sustaining a special
plea in bar, when the defendant has not been put in jeopardy."
But the Chief Justice further said that t was contended by
appellants that a writ of error lies also "upon a judgment where
there has been a verdict of not guilty, not, however, to obtain

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

a reversal of that judgment, but to obtain an opinion upon exceptions taken at the trial that may serve as a rule of observance in cases that may hereafter arise."
But this contention was rejected by the court in view of the
objectionable consequences that would result from such an
exercise' of jurisdiction. "The appellee in such a case, having
been freed from further prosecution by the verdict in his favor,
has no interest in the question that may be determined in the
proceedings on appeal and may not even appear. Nor can his
appearance be enforced. Without opposing argument, which
is so important to the attainment of a correct conclusion, the
court is called upon to lay down rules that may be of vital interest.to persons who 'may hereafter be brought to trial. All
such persons are, entitled to be heard on all questions affecting
their rights, and itis a harsh rule that would bind them by decisions made in what are practically 'moot' cases, where opposing views have not been presented."
It was in the light of these considerations that the act of
Congress of March 2, 1907, 34 Stat. 1246, c. 2564, was subjected to the limitationR therein contained. United States v.
Keitel, 211 U. S 370, 398; United States v. Mason, ante, p. 115.
By the constitutions of several of the States the justices of
the highest judicial tribunals are obliged to give their opinions
on important questions of law upon solemn occasions, when
required by either branch of the legislature, or the governor
or governor and council, and there are many interesting discussions in the state reports,. as well as in articles by the law
writers, in respect of such a provision.1
Butno such requirement obtains in Federal jurisprudence.
Such a provision was suggested in the Federal Constitutional
Convention, but disappeared in the Committee on Detail.
'Thayer on Advisory Opinions, Legal Essays, 43; Dubuque, The Duty
of Judges as Constitutional Advisors, 24 Amer. Law Review, 369; Emery,
C. J., 2 Maine Law Review, 1; Cases collected in 6 Amer. & Eng. Cycl.
(2d. ed.) 1065. And see 103 Maine, 306, and especially opinion of Savage, J.

LEEDS & CATLIN v. VICTOR TALKING MACH. CO. 301
213 U. S.

:Syllabus.

In 1793 President Washington sought to take the opinion
of the judges of the Supreme Court of the United States as to
various questions arising under our treaties with France, but
they declined to respond. Marshall thus speaks of the matter
in his Life of Washifigton:
"About ihis time it is probable that the difficulties felt by
the judges of the Supreme Court in expressing their sentiments
on the points referred to them were communicated to the Executive. Considering themselves as merely constituting a legal
tribunal for the decision of controversies brought before them
in legal form, these gentlemen deemed it improper to enter the
field of politics by declaring their opinion on questions notgrowing out of the case before them."' Story on the Constitution, § 1571.
It was long -ago held by this court that the discharge of such
a functionwas not an exercise of judicial power. United States
v. Ferreira, 13 How. 40, note on page 52; Hayburn's Case, 2
Dall. 409; see'note, pp. 410, 411, 412, 413, 414. And that
ruling sustains the conclusion of the Court of Appeals, in the
matter of the construction of this act to which the opinion is
confined.
Writ of certiorariquashed.

LEEDS AND CATLIN COMPANY v. VICTOR TALKING
MACHINE COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 80. Argued January 15, 18, 1909.-Decided April 19, 1909.
Where grave questions of fact are presented by the proof on which a
preliminary injunction has been granted in a patent case, this court
will not go beyond the action of the lowcr court and decide those
questions and the .case on the merits.
A combination which. produces by the cooperation of its constituents
the rekult specified in the manner specified is a true mechanical device
and a valid combination.

