OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Syllabus.

213 U. S.

proceedings, and gives no right of exemption to the prisoner
from being again put upon trial."
This has been the settled law of the Federal courts ever since
that time. Logan v. United States, 144 U. S. 263, 297; Thompson v. United States, 155 U. S.271, 274; Dreyer v. Illinois, 187
U. S. 71, 85.
Those decisions dispose of the question here presented, without considering whether the Fourteenth Amendment in itself
forbids a State from putting one of its citizens in second
jeopardy, a question which, as it is unnecessary, we do not decide. The record shows that the jury were kept out at least
twenty-four hours, and probably more, and the trial court
found that there was a reasonable probability that the jury
could not agree. This is the only Federal question, and, finding no error therein, the judgment of the Supreme Court of
Montana is

Affirmed.

KELLER v. UNITED STATES.
ULLMAN v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
Nos. 653, 654.

Argued March 1, 1909.-Decided April 5, 1909.

Speaking generally, the police power is reserved to the States and there
is no grant thereof to Congress in the Constitution.
Notwithstanding the offensiveness of the crime the courts cannot sustain a Federal penal statute if the ower to punish the same has not
been delegated to Congress by the Constitution.
Where there is collision between the power of the State and that of
Congress, the superior authority of the latter prevails. While Congress
has power to exclude aliens from, and to prescribe the terms and conditions on which aliens may come into, the United States, Turner v.
Williams, 194 U. S. 279, that power does not extend to controlling

dealings with aliens after their arrival merely on account of their
alienage.

KELLER v. UNITED STATES.
213 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

That portion of the act of February 20, 1907, c. 1134, 34 Stat. 898, which
makes it a felony to harbor alien prostitutes held, unconstitutional as
to one harboring such a prostitute without knowledge of her alienage
or in connection with her coming into the United States, as a regu-

lation of a matter within the police power reserved to the State and
not within any power delegated to Congress by the Constitution.

SECTION 3 of the act of Congress of February 20, 1907,
c. 1134, 34 Stat. 898, 899, entitled "An act to regulate the immigration of aliens into the United States" reads as follows:
"SEC. 3. That the importation into the United States of any
alien woman or girl for the purpose of prostitution, or for any
other immoral purpose, is hereby forbidden.; and whoever shall,
directly or indirectly, import, or ttempt to import, into the
United States, any alien woman or girl for the purpose of
prostitution, or for any other immoral purpose, or whoever
shall hold or attempt to hold any alien woman- or girl for any
such purpose in pursuance of such illegal importation, or
whoever shall keep, maintain, control, support, or harbor in any
house or other place, for the purpose of prostitution, or for any
other immoral purpose, any alien woman or girl, within three
years after she shall have entered the United States, shall, in every
such case, be deemed guilty of a felony, and on conviction thereof
be imprisoned not more thanfive years and pay a fine of not more
than five thousand dollars; and any alien woman or girl who
shall be found an inmate of a houge of prostitution or praoticing prostitution, at any time within three years after she shall
have entered the United States, shall be deemed to be unlawfully within the United States, and shall be deported as
provided by sections twenty and'twenty-one of this act."
The -plaintiffs in error were indicted for a violation
of this
section, the charge against them being based upon that portion of the section which is in italics, and in terms that they
"wilfully and knowingly did keep, maintain, control, support
and harbor in their certain house of prostitution" (describing
it) "for the purpose of prostitution a certain alien woman, to
wit, Irene Bodi," who was, as they well knew; a subject of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

213 U. S.

King of Hungary, who had entered the United States within
three years. A trial was had upon this indictment; the plaintiffs in error were convicted and sentenced to the penitentiary
for eighteen months.
Mr. Benjamin C. Bachrach, with whom Mr. Elijah N.
Zoline was on the brief, for plaintiffs in error:
The power to regulate.yice and morality within the confines
of a State is exclusively within the police power of the particular State and Congress has no power to pass laws of this
nature affecting persons within the confines of any State.
The police power of the State was never surrendered to the
Federal Government. It is reserved to the State to be exercised by it in regulating and directing its internal affairs.
-King v. Am. Transp. Co., 14 Fed. Cas. 512.
A State cannot divest itself of police power; this power is
essential to its very existence, and it can neither surrender,
abandon or barter it away..
Al the powers of our National Government are powers delegated to it by the States, and the powers not delegated to the
United States by the Constitution, nor prohibited by it to the
States, are reserved to the States respectively, or to the people.
Within the confines of a State of the United States there is
no warrant for the exercise of such authority by the Federal
Government, and the Federal Government has no such authority within.the territory and jurisdiction of a State and
over citizens of such State. Within the confines of the State
the police power in its broadest and fullest extent exists and
operates under state control, It can be -invoked
without
Federal consent, and modified or relaxed without Federal interference. This power is inherent in the State. It finds its
field of operation confined within the limits of its territorial
jurisdiction. Whenever the Federal Government assumes to
exercise police power within the confines of a State it invades
the exclusive province and right of the State.
The state law reaches out and punishes offenses of the 4iature

KELLER v. UNITED STATES.
213 U.

S.

Argment for Defendant in Error.

embraced in this clause of the act of Congress of February 20,
1907. Under the police power of the State the State has ample
authority to deal with the matter in such way as it may deem
necessary and adequate, *and the Federal Government has no
power and no authority, corrective or visitorial, over the policy
of the State in matters of police.
An alien after landing becomes amenable to the laWs,of the
State in which he resides. Its police power reaches Out and
stretches around him to punish or protect him just the same.,
as it does over a citizen. The laws of the State where he resides are invoked for his protection and for his punishment.
The Federal laws have to do with his enteringthis country, but
once he is admitted their application and ojieration terminates.
Under the Fedetal law he may be deported for cause, yet to
no.'punishment p'ovided by Federal law can he be subjected
for'criminal'acts committed within and punished by the State.
Under the state law he must be tried and punished for his
offen e, the same As a citizen would be.
Upon the question of the power of Congress to enact the
provisions herein in question, see McCullough v. Maryland, 4
Wheat. 405; Houston v. Moore, 5 Wheat. 48; The Civil Rights
Cases, 109 U. S. 3; The License Cases, 5 How. 576; Gibbons' v.
Ogden, 9 Wheat. 203; King et al. v. American Transp. Co.,, 14
Fed. Cas. 513; Passenger Case, 7 How. 283; Township of Pine
Grove v. Talcott, 19 Wall. 666; City of New York v. Miln, 11
Pet. 139; United States v. DeWitt, 9 Wall. 41; Slaughter House
Cases, 6 Wall. 64; Pattersonv. Kentucky,, 97 U. S. 503; United
States v. Knight, 156 U. S. 11; In re Rahrer, 140 U. S.
555.
Mr. Assist4W Attorney General.Fower for defendantin error:
The general powers of Congress. with reference to aliens
have been repeatedly declared by this court. Turner v.
Williams, 194 U. S. 28W; Fong Yue Ting v. United States, 149
U. S. 708; Lees v.- United States, 150 U. S. 476, 480; United
States v. Bitty, 208 U. S.393.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

213 U. S.

The validity of the clause in question should be maintained
because it relates to and materially affects the importation of
the class of women mentioned theretn.
The provisions in question did not appear in the act of
March 3, 1903, 32 Stat. 1214, and manifestly Congress ascertained that, owing to the many subterfuges resorted to by
those interested in the importation of women and girls for the
purpose of prostitution and other immoral purposes, it was
necessary to make it conclusive evidence that the importation
was for such immoral purpose as she might be found engaged
in within three years after her entry, and that he who might
be found keeping her for an immoral purpose within such time,
should be deemed to do so in pursuance of an unlawful importation. Viewed in that light, the provision is not at all
unreasonable, and is most salutary in its restraint upon the
importation of. women and girls for such purposes; because it
would be a comparatively easy matter to cover up an arrangement with a female that she come to the United States for
an immoral purpose, and have her imported in such manner
that it would be practically impossible for the object of the
importation to be ascertained; while, if she is prohibited from
engaging in such business, and all persons be prohibited from
keeping her for such purpose for three years after her arrival,
the inducement to procure alien females for immoral purposes
would be destroyed.
The clause in questionshould be held valid because it relates
to and materially affects the conditions upon which an alien
female may be permitted to remain in this country, and the
grounds which warrant her exclusion.
The admission of an alien female under this act may be regarded 'as only conditional, and for three years she is on probation; and, if within that time she be guilty of the acts therein
mentioned, she forfeits her right to remain. And it is certainly within the power of Congress to provide a punishment.
for.those who thus bring about her expulsion.
The validity ,of the provision in question .should be deter-

KELLER v. UNITED STATES.
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

mined from its general effect upon the importation and exclusion of aliens.
The question is, Do its provisions, and the fact that those
who axe guilty of such conduct as that for which plaintiffs in
error have been convicted may be prosecuted in the United
States courts, materially reduce the importation of females for
immoral purposes, and thus restrain an evil with reference to
which it has been universally held that Congress has the power
to legislate? If they do, then this provision falls within the
purview of congressional legislation, and is valid, notwithstanding the fact that the State has, in the exercise of its
reserved powers, the right to punish plaintiffs in error for the
same conduct.
There is nothing antagonistic or conflicting in the existence
of these dual punishments for the same acts, inasmuch as they
constitute two distinct offenses, the one against the state
government and the other against the National Government;
and the right of each of these two governments to inflict punishment for the same act has repeatedly been recognized by
this .court. Moore v. The People, 14 How. 14 20; Coleman v.
Tennessee, 97 U. §. 509; Grafton v. United States, 206 U. S.
333, 354. See also United States v. Coombs, 12 Pet. 71; United
States v. Marigold,9 How. 560, 568; United States v. Bridleman,
7 Fed. Rep. 894; United States v. Holiday, 3 Wall. 407.
MR. JUsTIcE BREWER, after making the foregoing statement,.
delivered the opinion of the court.

The single question is one of constitutionality. Has Congress power to punish the offense charged, or is jurisdiction
thereover solely with the State? Undoubtedly, as held, "Congress has the power to exclude aliens from the United States;
to prescribe the terms and conditions on which they may come
in; to establish regulations for sending out of the country such
aliens as have entered in violation of law, 'and to commit the
enforcement of such conditions and regulations to executive

144

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

officers." Turner v. William8, 194 U. S. 279, 289. See also
Fong Yue Ting v. United States, 149 U. S. 698, 708; Head
Money Cases, 112 U. S. 580, 591; Lees v. United States, 150
U. S. 476,480; United States v. Bitty, 208 U. S. 393.
It is.unnecessary to determine how fat Congress may go in
legislating .vith respect to the conduct of an alien while residing here, for there is' no charge against one; nor to -prescribe
the extent of its power in punishing wrongs done to an'alien,
for there is neither charge nor proof of any such wrong. So far
as the statute or the indictment requires, or the testimony
shows, she was voluntarily living the life of a prostitute, and
was only furnished a place by the defendants to follow her
degraded lif, . "While the keeping of a house of. ill-fame 'is
offensive to the 'moralt sense, yet that fact must'not close the
eye to the question whether the power to punish therefor is.
delegated to Congress or is reserved to the State. Jurisdiction
over such an offense comes within the accepted definition of
the police power'i ..Speaking generally, that power is reserved
to'the States," for there is in the Constitution no grant thereof
to Congress.
In Patterson:v.'Kentucky, 97 U. S. 501, 503, is this declaration:
"'In the American -constitutional system,' says Mr. Cooley,
'the power to establish the ordinary regulations of police has
been left with the individual States, and cannot be assumed by
the national government.' Cooley, Const. Lim.' 574. While
it is confessedly difficult to mark the precise boundaries of
that power, or to indicate, by any general rule, the exact
limitations which the States must observe in its exercise, the
existence; of such a power in the States has been uniformly
recognized in this court. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1; Lense
Cases, 5 How. 504; Gilman v. Philadelphia, 3 Wall. 713;
Henderson v. Mayor of the City of New York, 92 U. S. 259;
RailrobAi Company v. Husen, 95 U. S. 465; Beer Company v.
Massachusetts, 97 'U. S. 25. It is embraced in what Mr. Chief
Justice Marshall in Gibbons v. Ogden, calls that 'immense mass

KELLER v. UNITED STATES.
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of legislation,' which can be most advantageously exercised by
the States, and over which the national authorities cannot assume supervision or control.".
And in Barbierv. Connolly, 113 U. S. 27, 31, it is said:
"But neither the amendment-broad and comprehensive as
it is-nor any other amendment, was designed to interfere
with the power of the State, sometimes termed its police
power, to prescribe regulations to promote the health, peace,,
morals, education and good order of the people, and to legislate
so as to increase the industries of the State, develop its resources, and add to its wealth and prosperity."
Further, as the rule of construction, Chief Justice Marshall,
speaking for the court in the great case of McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316, 405, declares:
"This Government is acknowledged by all to be one of
enumerated powers. The principle that it can exercise only the
powers granted to it would seem too apparent to have required
to be enforced by all those arguments which its enlightened
friends, while it was depending before the people, found it
.necessary to urge. That principle is now universally admitted.
But the question respecting the extent of the powers actually
granted is perpetually arising, and will probably continue to
arise', as long as our system shall exist."
In Houston v. Moore, 5 Wheat. 1, 48, Mr. Justice Story says:
"Nor ought any power to be sought, much less to be adjudged,
in favor of the United States, unless it be clearly within the
reach of its constitutional charter. Sitting here, we are not at
liberty to add one jot of power to the National Government
beyond what the people have granted by the Constitution.".
Art. X of Amendments; City of New York v. Miln, 11 Pet.
102, 133; License Cases, 5 How. 504, 608, 630; United States v.
Dewitt, 9 Wall. 41, 44; Pattersonv, Kentucky, 97 U. S. 501, 503;
Barbier v. Connolly, 113 U. S. 27, 31; In re Rahrer, 140 U. S.
545, 555; United States v. Knight, 156 U. S. 1, 11; Cooley's
Constitutional Limitations, 574..
Doubtless it not infrequently happens that the same act
VOl, cCXIII-10

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

may be referable to the power of the State, as well as to that of
Congress. If there be collision in such a case, the superior
authority of Congress prevails. 'As said in City of New York v.
Miln, 11 Pet. 102, 137:
"From this it appears that whilst a State is acting within the
legitimate scope of its power as to the end to be attained, it may
use whatsoever means, being appropriate to that end, it may
think fit; although they may be the same, or so nearly the same,
as scarcely to be distinguishable from those adopted by Congress acting under a different power, subject only, say the court,
to this limitation, that in the event of collision, the law of the
State must yield to the law of Congress. The court must be
understood, of course, as meaning that the law of Congress is
passed upon a subject within the sphere of its power."
In Gulf, Colorado & Santa Fe Railway v. Hefley, 158 U. S.
98, 104, the rule is stated in these words:
"Generally it may be said in respect to laws of this character
that, though resting upon the police power of the State, they
must yield whenever Congress, in the exercise of the powers
granted to it, legislates upon the precise subject-matter, for
that power, like all other reserved powers of the States, is subordinate to those in terms conferred by the Constitution upon
the nation. 'No urgency for its use can authorize a State to
exercise it in regard to a subject-matter which has been1 confided
exclusively to the discretion of Congress by the Constitution.'
Henderson v. New York, 92 U. S. 259, 271. 'Definitions of the
police power must, however, be taken subject to the condition
that the State cannot, in its exercise, for any purpose whatevet,
encroach upon the powers of the General Government, or rights
granted or secured by the supreme law of the land.' New Orleans Gas Co. v. Louisiana Light Co., 115 U. S. 650, 661. 'While
it may be a police power in the sense that all provisions for the
health, comfort, and security of the citizens are police regulations, and an exercise of the police power, it has been said more
than once in this court that, where such powers are so exercised
as to come within the domain of Federal authority as defined

KELLER v. UNITED STATES.
213 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

by the Constitution, the latter must prevail.' " Morgan v.
Louisiana,118 U. S. 455, 464. See also Lottery Case, 188 U. S.
321.
The question is, therefore, whether there is any authority
conferred upon Congress by which this particular portion of
the statute can be sustained. By §2 of Art. II of the Constitution, power is given to the President, by and with the'
advice and consent of the Senate, to make treaties, but there
is no suggestion in the record or in the briefs of a treaty with the
King of Hungary under which this legislation can be supp orted.
The general power which exists in the Nation to control the
coming in or removal of aliens is relied upon, the Government
stating in its brief these two propositions:
"The clause in question should be held valid because it relates to and materially affects the conditions upon which an
alien female may be permitted to remain in this country, and
the grounds which warrant her exclusion.
"The validity of the provision in question should be determined from its general effect upon the importation and exclusion of aliens."
But it is sufficient to say that the act charged has no significance in either direction.
As to the suggestion that Congress has power to punish one
assisting in the importation of a prostitute, it is enough to say
that the statute does not include such a charge; the indictment
does not make it, and the testimony shows, without any contradiction, that the woman, Irene Bodi, came to this country
in November, 1905; that she remained in New York until
October, 1907; then came to Chicago and went into the house
of prostitution which the defendants purchased in November,
1907, finding the woman then in the house; that she had been in
the business of a prostitute only about ten or eleven -months
prior to the trial of the case in October, 1908, and that the
defendants did not know her until November, 1907. In view
of those facts the question of the power of Congress to punish

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

those who assist in the importation of a prostitute is entirely
imrmaterial.
The act charged is only one included in the great mass of personal dealings with aliens. Ifis her own character and conduct
which determines the question of exclusion or removal. The
acts of others may be evidence of her business and character.
But it does not follow that Congress has the power to' punish
those whose acts furbish evidence from which the Government
may determine the question of her expulsion. Every possible
dealing of,-any citizen with the .alien may have more or less induced her coming. ]But can it be Within the power of Congress
to control all the dealings of our citizens with resident aliens?
If that be possible, the door is open to the assumption by the
National Government' of an almost *unlimited:body of legislation. By the census of 1900 the population of the United States
between the oceans was in round numbers 76,000,000. Of these,
10,000,000 were of foreign birth,,nd 16,000,000 more were of
foreign parentage. Doubtless some have become citizens by
naturalization, but certainly scattered through the country
there are millions of aliens. If the contention of the Government be sound, whatever may have been done in the past, however little this field of legislation may have been entered upon,
the power of Congress is broad enough to take cognizance of all
dealings of citizens with aliens. That there is a moral consideration in the special facts of this case,.that the act charged is
within the scope of the police power, is immaterial, for, as stated,
there is in the Constitution no grant to Congress of the. police
power. And the legislation must stand or fall according to the
determination of the question of the power of Congress to control generally dealings of citizeno'with aliens. In other words,
an immense body of legislation, which heretofore has been
recognized as peculiarly withinr!the jurisdiction of the States,
may be taken by Congress away. from them. Although Congress has not largely entered, into this field of legislation, it may
do so, if it'
has the power. Then we should be brought face to
face with such a change in the internal conditions of this country

KELLER v. UNITED STATES.
213 U. S.

149

HOLMES, J., diaeting.

as was never dreamed of by the framers of the 'Constitution.
While the acts of Congress are to be liberally construed in order
to enable it to carry into effect the powers conferred, it is equally
true that prohibitions and limitations upon those powers should
also be fairly and reasonably enforced. Fairbank v. United
States, 181 U. S. 283. To exaggerate in the one direction and
restrict in the other will tend to substitute one consolidated
government for the present Federal system. We should never
forget the declaration in Texas v. White, 7 Wall. 700, 725, that
"the Constitution, in all its provisions, looks to an indestructible Union, composed of indestructible States."
The judgments are reversed, and the casu; remanded to the District Court of the United States for the Northern District of
Illinois with instructionsto quash the indictment.

MR. JUSTICE HOLMES, dissenting.
For the purpose of excluding those who unlawfully enter this
country Congress has power to retain control over aliens long
enough to make sure of the facts. Yamataya v, Fisher (Japanese Immigrant Case), 189 U. S. 86.., To this end it may make
their admission conditional for three years.. Pedrson v. Williams, 202 U. S. 281. If the ground of exclusion is their calling,
practice of it within a short time after arrival is or may be made
evidence of what it was when they came in. Such retrospective
presumptions are not always contrary to experience or un:
known to the law. Bailey v. Alabama, 211 U. S.' 452, 454. If
a woman were found living in a houe of prostitution within a
week of her arrival, no one, I suppose, would doubt that it
tended to show that she was in the business when she arrived.
But how far back such an inference shall reach is a question of
degree likemost of the questions of life. And, while a period of
three years seems to be long, I am not prepared to say, againt
the judgment of Congress, that it is too long.
The statute does not state the legal theory upon which it was
enacted.. If the ground is that which I have suggested, it is fair

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
HoLzEs, J., dissenting.

213 U. S.

to observe that the presumption that it creates is not open to
rebuttal. I should be prepared to accept even that, however,
in view of the difficulty of proof in such cases. Statutes of which
the justification must be the same arq familiar in the States.
For instance, one creating the offense*of being present when
gaming implements are found, Commonwealth v. Smith, 166
Massachusetts, 370, 375, 376, or punishing the sale of intoxicating liquors without regard to knowledge of their intoxicating
quality, Commonwealth v. Hallett, 103 Massachusetts, 452, or
throwing upon a seducer the risk of the woman turning out to be
married or under a certain age. Commonwealth v. Elwell, 2
Met. 190; Reg. v. Prince, L. R. 2 C. C. 154. It is true that in
such instances the legislature has power to change the substantive law of crimes, and it has been thought that when it is said
to create a conclusive presumption as to a really disputable
fact, the proper mode of stating what it does, at least as a
general rule, .is to say that it has changed the substantive law.
2,Wigmore, Ev., §§ 1353 et seq. This may be admitted without
denying that considerations of evidence are what lead to the
change. And if it should be thought more philosophical to
express this law in substantive terms, I think that Congress may
require, as a condition of the right to remain, good behavior
for a certain time, in matters deemed by it important to the
public welfare and of a kind that indicates a preexisting habit
that would have excluded the party if it had been knowfi.
Therefore I am of opinion that it is within the power of Congress to order the deportation of a woman found practicing
prostitution within three years.
- If Congress can forbid the entry and order
the subsequent
deportation of professional prostitutes, it can punish those who
co6perate in their fraudulent entry. "If Congress has power
to exclude such- laborers

it has tli-e power to punish

any who assist in their introduction." That was a point decided
in Lees v. United States, 150.U. S. 476, 4807 The same power
must exist as to cooperation in an equally unlawful stay. The
indictment sets forth the facts that constitute such cooperation

MURRAY v. WILSON DISTILLING CO.
213 U. S.

Syllabus.

and need not allege the conclusion of law. On the principle of
the cases last cited, in order to make its prohibition effective
the law can throw the burden of finding out the fact and date of
a prostitute's arrival from apother country upon those who
harbor her for a purpose that presumably they know in any
event to be contrary to law.' Therefore, while I have admitted
that the time fixed seems to me to be long, I can see no other
constitutional objection to the act, and, as I have said, I think
that that one ought not to prevail
MR. JUSTiCE HARLAN and MR. JUSTICE MOODY

concur in

this dissent.

MURRAY, McSWEEN, AND PATTON, CONSTITUTING
THE STATE DISPENSARY COMMISSION O. SOUTH
CAROLINA, v. WILSON DISTILLING COMPAI4Y.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FOURTH

CIRCUIT.
No. 625.

Argued February 26, March 1, 1909.-Decided April 5, 1909.

Purchases made by state officers of supplies for business carried on by

the State are made by the State, and suits by the vendors against the
state officers carrying on or winding up the business are suits against
the'State and, under the Eleventh Amendment, beyond the jurisdiction of the Federal courts; and so held a4 to suits against commissioners to wind up the State Liquor Dispensary of South Carolina.
A bill in equity to compel specific performance of a contract between
an individual and a State cannot, against the objection of the State,.
be maintained in the Federal courts. Christianv. Atlantic & N. C.
R. R., 133 U. S. 233.
A state statute will not, by strained implication, be construed as a
divestiture of rights of property, or as authorizing administration of
the assets of a governmental agency, without the presence of the
State, and so held as to the statute of South Carolina providing for
winding up the State Liquor Dispensary.
The consent of a State to be sued in its own courts by'a creditor does
not give that creditor the right to sue in a Federal court. Chandler v.
Dix, 194 U. S. 590.

