STRONG v. REPIDE.
213 U.S.

Syllabus.

tion, and as Congress, if it sees fit, may meet that construction
by additional legislation, I deem it unnecessary to enter upon
an extended discussion of the various questions arising upon
the record, and will content myself simply with an expression
of my non-concurrence in the view taken by the court as to the
meaning and scope of certain provisions of the act. In my
judgment the act, reasonably and properly construed, according to its language, includes within its prohibitions a railroad
company transporting coal, if, at the time, it is the owner,
legally or equitably, of stock-certainy, if it owns a majority or
all the stock-in the company which mined, manufactured or
produced, and then owns, the coal which is being transported
by such railroad company. Any other view of the act will enable the transporting railroad company, by one device or another, to defeat altogether the purpose which. Congress had in
view, which was to divorce' in a real, substantial sense, production and transportation, and thereby to prevent the transporting company from doing injustice to other owners of coal.

STRONG v. REPIDE.
ERROR TO AND APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE
PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.
No. 110.

Argued March 10, 11, 1909.-Decided May 3, 1909.

Although there is no technical finding of facts by the court'of first instance of the Philippine Islands, if the opinion shows the facts on
which the judgment is based and the courts below differ in regard
thereto they may be reviewed by this court under § 10 of the act of
July 1, 1902, c. 1369, 32 Stat. 691. De la Rama v. De la Rama, 201
U. S. 303.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Syllabus.

213 U. S.

Where a sale made through an agent of the vendor has been effected by
the fraud and deceit of the vendee, the sale cannot stand whether or
not the vendor's agent had power to sell.
A director ,upon whose action the value of the shares depends cannot
avail of his knowledge of what his own action will be to acquire shares
from those whom he intentionally keeps in ignorance of his expected
action and the resulting value of the shares.
This is a rule of common law, and also of the Spanish law before the
'adoption of the Philippine Civil Code; and, under §§ 1261-1269 of that
code, a contract obtained under such circumstances can be avoided
by the party whose consent would not have been given had he known
the facts within the knowledge of the other party.
Even though a director may not be under the obligation of a fiduciary
nature to disclose to a shareholder his knowledge affecting the value
of the shares, that duty may exist in special cases, and did exist upon
the facts in this case.
In this case the facts clearly indicate that a director of a corporation owning friar lands in the Philippine Islands, and who controlled the action of the corporation, had so concealed his exclusive
knowledge of the impending sale to the Government from a shareholder from whom he purchased, through an agent, shares in the
corporation, that the concealment was in violation of his duty as a
director to disclose such knowledge and amounted to deceit sufficient
to avoid the sale; and, under such circumstances, it was immaterial
whether the shareholder's agent did or did not have power to sell the
stock.
While the method of payment cannot have induced the vendor's consent to a sale, where that method tended to conceal the identity of the
purchaser and was part of a scheme to conceal facts, the knowledge
of which would have resulted in vendor's refusal to sell, evidence as
to the payment is admissible to show the fraudulent intent and scheme
of the purchaser.
The expressed prohibitions in § 1459 of the Spanish Civil Code against
directors of corporations acquiring shares of stock entrusted to them
do not apply to purchases from others.
An expressed prohibition against directors acquiring shares held by
themselves in a fiduciary capacity does not refer to purclases by directors of shares from others, or so limit the prohibitions against purchases of stock by directors that a sale to one cannot be avoided by
his deceit in not disclosing material facts within his exclusive knowledge.
Although there may be objections to the form of judgment in the Court

STRONG v. REPIDE.
213 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

of First Instance as they are not of a material nature this court will
follow the same course.
6 Philippine, 680, reversed.
THIS action was commenced on the twelfth day of January, 1904, in the Court of First Instance of the city of Manila,
Philippine Islands, by the plaintiffs in error, Eleanor Erica
Strong and Richard P. Strong, her husband, against the defendant in error. It was brought by the plaintiff, Mrs. Strong,
as the owner of eight hundred shares of the capital stock of the
Philippine Sugar Estates Development Company, Limited,
(the other plaintiff being added as her husband), to recover
such shares from defendant (who was already the owner of
30,400 of the 42,030 shares issued by the company), on the
ground that the shares had been sold ard delivered by plaintiff's
agent to the agent of defendant, without authority from plaintiff; and also on the ground that defendant fraudulently concealed from plaintiff's agent, one F. Stuart Jones, facts affecting
the value of the stock so sold and delivered. The stock was of
the par value of $100 per share, Mexican currency.
The plaintiff never had any negotiations for the sale of the
stock herself; andwas ignorant that it was sold until some time
after the sale, the negotiations for which took place between
an agent of the plaintiff and an agent of defendant, the name
of the defendant being undisclosed:
In addition to his ownership of almost three-fou'rths of the
shares of the stock of the company, the defendant was one of
the five directors of the company, and was elected by the board
the agent and administrator general of such company, "with
exclusive intervention in the management" of its general business.
The defendant put in issue the lack of authority of the agent
of the plaintiff, denied all fraud, and alleged that the purchase
of the stock from plaintiff's agent. (which stock was payable to
bearer and transferable by delivery) was made by one Albert
Kauffman, who afterwards sold and conveyed the same to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Statement of the Case.

213 U. S.

defendant, and that the defendant, prior to the commencement
of the suit and prior to any demand made upon him by the
plaintiff in error herein, had sold, transferred and delivered the
stock to Luis Gutierrez, a citizen and resident of Spain. (He
was a brother of the defendant.)
In April, 1904, the case came on for trial in the Court of First
Instance, which, on the twenty-ninth of that month, duly decided it and stated certain facts in the cause upon which it
based its opinion and judgment, among which were the facts
that the agent of the plaintiff had no authority to sell or transfer
the shares of stock in question, and also that the transaction
resulting in the delivery of the stock to the agent of the defendant was fraudulent, because the defendant concealed from the
plaintiff's agent facts affecting the value of the stock, which the
defendant was in good faith bound to reveal, by reason of which
the sale of the stock to defendant was made for the total sum of
$16,000, Mexican currency, while within two months and a half
the shares were worth $76,256, United States currency. Upon
the findings the court directed that the plaintiff recover from
the defendant the sum found to be due by the court, which
(after deducting the $16,000, Mexican currency) amounted to
$138,352.71, Philippine currency, and the costs of suit, and it
was ordered that the judgment might be satisfied by the delivery to the plaintiff, Mrs. Strong, of her eight hundred shares
of stock within the time mentioned in the decree, in which.event
the plaintiff was to pay the defendant $16,000, Mexican currency, or its equivalent in Philippine currency. Other particulars were stated ih the decree.
On May 3, 1904, a motion was made by defendant for a new
trial, which, on May 9, 1904, was overruled.
A bill of exceptions was then made and appeal filed. Subsequently, and on January 18, 1906, the. same was duly -argued
in the Supreme CQIart of the Philippine Islands, and on
April 28, 1906,: a decision was rendered by the court, holding
that the agent of the plaintiff had no power to sell or deliver her
stock, and it affirmed the decree of the Court of First Instance

STRONG v. REPIDE.
213 U. S.

Statement of the Cae.

on that ground, but not on the second ground taken by
that court, that the sale of the stock through the plaintiff's
agent had been procured by fraud on the part of the defendant.
Subsequently to the affirmance of the judgment the defendant, through his counsel, made a motion for a new trial on the
ground of newly-discovered evidence, which consisted of a
power of attorney (that had been mislaid and after the trial had
been found) from Mrs. Strong to Mr. F. Stuart Jones and Mr.
Robert H. Wood, which authorized both, or either of them, to
sell or otherwise dispose of the property of the plaintiff as they
or he might choose. After opposition this motion was granted
and leave given to the parties to submit new evidence as to the
nature of the, authority delegated by the plaintiff in error to her
agent Jones, and under that permission the newly-discovered
power of attorney was put in evidence. Upon that piece of
evidence the court held that the authority of the agent Jones
was sufficient and that the paper became absolutely decisive of
the issues in the case, and the order affirming the judgment of
the court below was therefore set aside, the judgment of the
Court of First Instance reversed and the action dismissed upon
its merits. From that decree of reversal and dismissal the
plaintiffs seek to bring the case here for review, and have sued
out a writ of error and taken an appeal.
The facts out of which the controversy arises are in substance
these:
In 1902 it was thought important for the Government of the
United States. to secure title, if reasonably possible, to what
were called the friar lands in the Philippine Islands. To that
end various inquiries were made on the part of the Governmeit
from time to time as to the possibility of obtAihing title to all
those lands and what would be the probable. expense. The
lands were not owned by the same people, 'but were divided
among different and separate owners. The Philippine Sugar
Estates Development Company, Limited, owned of these lands
what are more particularlv aescribed as the Dominican lands,

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Statement of the Case.

213 U. S.

and they were regarded as nearly one-half the value of all the
friar lands.
On July 5, 1903, the governor of the Philippine Islands, on
behalf of the Philippine Government, made an offer of purchase
for the total sum of $6,043,219.47 in gold for all the friar lands,
though owned by different owners. This offer, so far as concerned that portion of the lands owned by defendant's company, was rejected by defendant in his capacity as majority
shareholder, without any consultation with the other shareholders. The representatives of all the different owners of all
the lands, including defendant's, company, in answer to the
above offer, then fixed their selling price at $13,700,000 for all
of such lands. During the negotiations consequent upon these
different offers, which lasted for some time after the first offer
was made, an offer was finally, and towards the end of October, 1903, made by the governor of $7,535,000. All the owners
of all these friar lands, with the exception of the defendant
who represented his company, were willing and anxious to accept this offer and to convey the lands to the Government at
that price. He alone held out for a better offer while all the
other owners were endeavoring to persuade him to accept the
offer of the Government. The defendant continued his refusal
to accept until the other owners consented to pay to his company $335,000 of the purchase price for their land and until the
Government consented that a thousand hectares should be
excluded from the sale to it of the land of defendant's company.
This being agreed to the contract for the sale was finally signed
by the defendant as attorney in fact for his company, December 21, 1903. The defendant, of course, as the negotiations
-progressed knew that the decision of the question lay with him,
and that if he should decide to accept the last offer of the Government his decision would be the decision of his company, as
he owned three-fourthsof its shares, and the negotiations would
then go through as all the owners of the balance of the land
desired it. If the sale should not be consummated and things
should remain as they were, the defendant also knew that the

STRONG v. REPIDE.
213 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

value of the lands and of the shares in the company would be
almost nothing. He himself says, in speaking of these lands
owned by his company, that had the Government "given the
haciendas the protection which they ought to have received
they would have been worth $6,000,000 gold; but, considering
the abnormal condition in which they were on account of the
failure of the Government to protect these haciendas, it is impossible to fix any value; they were worth nothing; they were a
charge.'" Also, the company had paid no dividends, and only
lived on its credit, and could not even pay taxes. The company had no other property of any substantial value than these
lands. They were its one valuable asset.
While this state of things existed, and before the final offer
had been made by the governor, the defendant, although still
holding out for a higher price for the lands, took steps, about
the middle or latter, part of September, 1903, to purchase the
800 shares of stock in his company owned by Mrs. Strong,
which he knew were in the possession of F. Stuart Jones, as her
agent. The defendant, having decided to obtain these shares,
instead of seeing Jones, who had an office next door, employed
one Kauffman, a connection of his by marriage, and Kauffman
employed a Mr. Sloan, a broker, who had an office some distance
away, to purchase the stock for him, and told Sloan that the
stock was for a member of .his wife's family. Sloan cornmuificated with the husband of Mrs. Strong and asked if she
desired to sell her stock. The husband referred him to Mr.
Jones for consultation, who had the stock in his possession.
Sloan did not know who wanted to buy the shares, nor did
Jones when he was spoken to. Jones would not have sold at
the price he did had he known it was the defendant who was
purchasing, because, as he said, it would show increased value,
as the defendant would not be likely to purchase more stock
unless the price was going up. As the articles of incorporation,
by subdivision twenty, required a resolution of the general'
meeting of stockholders for the purpose of selling more than one
hacienda, and as no such general meeting had been called at

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Statement of the Case.

213 U. S.

the time of the sale of the stock, Mr. Jones might well have
supposed there was no immediate prospect of a sale of the lands
being made, while at the same time defendant had knowledge
of the probabilities thereof, which he had acquired by his conduct of the negotiations for their sale, as agent of all the shareholders, and while acting specially for them and himself.
The result of the negotiations was that Jones, on or about
October 10, 1903, assuming that he had the power, and without
consulting Mrs. Strong, sold the 800 shares of stock for $16,000,
Mexican currency, delivering the stock to Kauffman in Sloan's
office, who paid for it with the check of Rueda Hermanos for
$18,000, the surplus $2,000 being arranged for, and Kauffman
being paid $1,800 by defendant for his services. The defendant
thus obtained the 800 shares for about one-tenth of the amount
they became worth by the sale of the lands between two and
three months thereafter. In all the negotiations in regard to
the purchase of the stock from Mrs. Strong, through her agent
Jones, not one word of the facts affecting the value of this stock
was made known to plaintiff's agent by defendant but, on the
contrary, perfect silence was kept. The real state of the negotiations with the Government was not inentioned, nor was
the fact stated that it rested chiefly with the defendant to complete the sale. The probable value of the shiares in the very
near future was thus unknown to any one but defendant, while
the agent of the plaintiff had no knowledge or suspicion that
defendant was the one seeking to purchase the shares. The
agent sold because, as he testified, he wanted to invest the
money in some kind of property that would pay dividends,
and he was expecting nothing from this Company, as negotiations for the sale of the lands had gone on.so long, and there
appeared no prospect of any sale being made, at any rate not
for a very long time.
It is undeniable that during all this time the subject of the
sale of the friar lands was frequently mooted and its probabilities publicly discussed in a general way. Such discussion
was founded upon rumors and gossip as to the condition of the

STRONG v. REPIDE.
213 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

negotiations. The public press referred to it not infrequently,
but the actual state of the negotiations, the actual probabilities
of the sale being consummated, and the particular position of
power and influence which the defendant occupied in such
negotiations, prior to the time of -the purchase of plaintiff's
stock, were not accurately known by plaintiff's agent or by anyone else outside those interested in the matter as negotiators.
Mr. Henry E. Davis for plaintiffs in error and appellants:
Upon all the evidence in the case, even including the power
of attorney, the defendant was guilty of the fraud alleged.
"Consent given by error, under violence, by intimidation, or
deceit shall be void." Civil Code, Art. 1265. "There is deceit
when by words or insidious machinations on the part of one of
the contracting parties, the other is induced to execute a contract which, without them, he would not have made." Civil
Code, Art. 1269. See also Manresa, vol. 8, p. 623. And as to
the principles governing this case, Oliver v. Oliver, 118 Georgia,
362; Stewart v. Harris,69 Kansas, 498; Miner v. Belle Isle Co.,
93 Michigan, 97; Ervin v. Oregon &c. Co., 27 Fed. Rep. 625,
631; Wheeler v. Abilezie &c. Co., 159 Fed. Rep. 391; Sidell v.
Mo. Pac. Ry., 78 Fed. Rep. 424; Ritchie v. McMullen, 79 Fed.
Rep. 522; Farmers' Loan & Trust Co. v. New York Co., 150
N. Y. 410; Hunter v. Hunter, 50 Missouri, 229; Stone v. Moody,
84 Pac. Rep. 617; .1 Bigelow on Fraud, pp. 231, 297, 312;
Domat's Civil Law, vol. 1,.p. 574, No. 1457; Id., p. 584, No. 1490;
Id., p. 510, No. 1259; Id., No. 1260; Id., p. 511, No. 1262;
Escriche, Fraude.
Mr. George E. Hamilton, with whom Mr. John W. Yerkes,
Mr. M. J. Colbert and Mr. John J. Hamilton were on the brief,
for defendant in error:
Under the facts of this case the decisions of the courts of
several of the States, holding that a director and stockholder
must disclose his intention to another stockholder before buying
stock from him, have no application, even if that rule was the

428

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

correct rule under the authorities controlling the question in
this country; but that rule is not supported by the current of
American authority. Hooker v. Midland Steel Co., 117 Ill. App.
441; Haarstickv. Fox, 9 Utah, 110.
While directors stand in a fiduciary relation to the corporatiol itself, they do not stand in that relation wAen dealing
with other stockholders for the purchase or sale of stock. In
the purchase and sale of stock between stockholders there must
be some actual misrepresentation in order to constitute .fraud.
Mere silence is not sufficient. Walshv. Goulden, 130 Michigan,
531. See also Kruiibhaar v. Griffiths, 151 Pa. St. 223; Bloom
v. Loan Company, 152. N..Y. 114; O'Neil v. Ternes, 32 Washington, 528.
A director of the corporation itself may buy and sell its stock
like any other individual.' He is entitled to the benefit of his
facilities for information. No confidential relation exists between him and a stockholder, as to sales of the stock; and, so
long as he remains silent and does not actively mislead the
person with whom he deals, the transaction can not be set aside
for fraud. See Cook on Corporat4ons, 4th ed., 1898, § 320,
p. 622; and Taylor on Corp., 5th ed., §698; Beach on Corp.,
*§§ 246, 614.

MR. JusTiCE. PECKHAM, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
The Court of First Instance at Manila gave judgment in.favor
of the plaintiffs on two grounds discussed in the opinion, one
ground being that the sgent of plaintiff, by. whom the sale was'
concluded, had no authority to make it, and hence the delivery
of the stock by him to defendant's agent was illegal; the other
ground was that the defendant had been guilty of fraud in concealing certain facts from the seller affecting the value of the
stock' at the' time when its sale was concluded.
Upon appeal to .the Supreme Court of the islands the judgiment was affirmed' by a divided court, upon the ground of the

STRONG v. REPIDE.
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

lack of atthority of the plaintiff's agent to make the sale, but
not upon the ground of the alleged fraud on' the part of the defendant. Two of the judges dissented, on the ground that there
was authority to make the sale, although they agreed with the
majority that there was no fraud.
One of the majority held not only that there was no authority to sell, but that there was fraud, and therefore only. cpncurred in the result in affirming the judgment for the plaintiff.
When the motion for a new trial was subsequently granted
on account of newly-discovered evidence the majority of the
court, on the authority of the second power of attorney (which
was the newly-discovered evidence then received), held that
it was sufficient. to authorize the plaintiff's agent to make the
sale he did in her behalf, and as the majority h~ld'there was no
fraud in the case, the judgment for plaintiff was reversed and
the complaint was dismissed.
Mr. Justice Johnson dissented, and filed a dissenting opinion
in favor of the affirmance of the judgment of the Court of First
Instance on both the grounds taken by it.
We are now called upon to review the judgment of the Supreme Court dismissing the complaint of the .plaintiff. If the
purchase of the stock by the defendant was obtained by reason
of his fraud or deceit, it is not material to inquire whether the
agent of the plaintiff had power. to sell the stock.. If fraud. or
deceit existed, the sale cannot stand. We shall therefore determine the question whether or not there was,evidence of such
fraud or deceit as would.avoid the sale.
Although there is no technical finding of facts by the Court of
First Instance, yet in its opinion that court does state facts upon
which it bases its judgment, and which may be referred to for
the purpose of determining what the facts are. On appeal'or
writ of 'error from the judgment of the Supreme Court of the
philippine Islanids the facts (when the courts below differ) will
be reviewed by this court under the tenth section of the act of
July 1, 1902, c. 1369, 32 Stat. 691. De la Rama v. De la Rama,
201 U. S. 303, 309.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U.S.

A careful perusal of the evidence brings us to the conclusion
that it was ample to sustain the judgment of the Court of First
Instance, considered with reference to the law applicable to the
Philipoiine Islands.
The Civil Code of that jurisdiction after providing by article 1261 for the requisites of a contract, among which is the
"consent of the contracting parties," says in article 1265 as
follows: "Consent'given by error, under violence, by intimidation, or deceit, shall be void."- Articles 1266 to 1268, inclusive, tuxplain the meaning of the words as used in article 1265, and describe what may be error, under violence or by
intimidation. It is then provided by article 1269 that "There
is deceit when by words or insidious machinations on the part
of one of the contracting parties the other is induced to execute
a contract which Without them he would not have made."
The meaning' of the words "insidious machinations" may be
said to be a deceitful scheme or plot with an evil design, or, in
other words, with a fraudulent purpose. Thus, the deceit which
avoids the contract need not be by means of misrepresentations
in words' It exists where the party who obtains the consent
does so by means of concealing or omitting to state material
facts, with intent to deceive, by reason of which omission or
concealment the other party was induced to give a consent
which he would not otherwise have given. Article 1269. This
is the rule of the common law also, but in both cases it is based
upon the proposition that, under all the circumstances of the
,case, it was the duty of the party who obtained the consent,
acting in good faith, to have disclosed the facts which he concealed. Stewart v. Wyoming Cattle Ranch Co., 128 U. S. 383,
388. This was the Spanish law before the adoption of the code.
Partidas 5, Titulo 5, Ley 57; Partidas 7, Titulo 16, Ley 1. See
also Scaevola, Codigo Civil, Articles 1269, 1270. In such cases
concealment is equivalent to misrepresentation.
The question in this case, therefore, is whether, under the
circumstances above set forth, it was the duty of the defendant,
acting in good faith, to disclose to the agent of the plaintiff

STRONG v. REPIDE.
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the facts bearing upon or which might affect the value of the
stock.
If it were conceded, for the purpose of the argument, that
the ordinary relations between directors and shareholders in a
business corporation are not of such a fiduciary nature as to
make it the duty of a director to disclose to a shareholder the
general knowledge which he may possess regarding the value
of the shares of the company before he purchases any from a
shareholder, yet there are cases where, by reason of the special
facts, such duty exists. The supreme courts of Kansas and of
Georgia have held the relationship existed in the cases before
those courts because of the special facts which took them out
of the general rule, and that under those facts the director
could not 'purchase from the shareholder his shares without
informing him of the facts which affected their value. Stewart
v. Harris, 69 Kansas, 498; S. C., 77 Pac. Rep. 277; Oliver v.
Oliver, 118 Georgia, 362; S. C., 45 S. E. Rep. 232. The case
before us is of the same general character. On the other hand,
there is the case of Board of Commissioners v. Reynolds, 44
Indiana, 509-515, where it was held (after referring to cases)
that no relationship of a fiduciary nature exists between a
director and a shareholder in a business corporation. Other
cases are cited to that effect by counsel for defendant in error.
These cases involved only the bare relationship between director and shareholder. It is here sought to make defendant
responsible for his actions, not alone and simply in his character
as a director, but because, in consideration of all the existing
circumstances above detailed, it became the duty of the defendant, acting in good faith, to state the facts before making
the purchase. That the defendant was a director of the corporation is but one of the facts upon which the liability is asserted, the existence of all the others in addition making such a
combination as rendered it the plain duty of the defendant to
speak. He was not only a director, but he owned three-fourths
of the shares of its stock, and was, at the time of the purchase
of the stock, administrator general of the company, with large

432

.

OCTOBER TERM, 1908.
Opinion of the Court.

213 T. S.

powers, and engaged in the negotiations which finally led to
the sale of the company's lands (together with all the other friar
lands) to the Government at a price which very greatly enhanced the value of the~stock. He was the chief negotiator for.
the sale of all the lands, and was acting substantially as the
agent of the shareholders of his company by reason of his
ownership of the shares of stock in the corporation and by the
acquiescence of all the other shareholders, and the-negotiations
Were for the sale of the whole of the property of the company.
By reason of such ownership and agency, and his participation
as such owner and agent in the negotiations then going on, no
one knew as well as he the exact condition of such negotiations.
No one knew as. well as he the probability 'of the sale of the
lands to the Government. No one knew as well as he the
probable price that might be obtained on such sale. The lands
were the only valuable asset owned by the company. Under
these circumstances aid before the negotiations for the sale
were completed the defendant employs an agent to purchase
-the stock, and conceals from the ' plaintiff's agent his own
identity and his knowledge of the state of the negotiations and
their probable result, with which he was familiar as the agent
of the shareholders and much of which knowledge he obtained
while- acting as such agent and by reason thereof. The inference is inevitable that at this time he had concluded to press,
the negotiations for a sale of the lands to a successful conclusion, else why would he desire to purchase more shares
which, if no sale went through, were, in his opinion, worthless,
because of the failure of the Government to properly protect
the lands in the hands of their then owners? The agent of theplaintiff was ignorant in regard to the state of the negotiations
for the sale of the land, which negotiations and their probable
result were a most material fact affecting the value of the. shares
of stock of the company, and he would not have sold them at
the price he did had he known the actual state of the negotiations as to the lands and that it was the defendant who was
seeking to purchase the stock. Concealing his identity when

STRONG v. REPIDE.
213 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

procuring the purchase of the stock, by his agent, was in itself
strong evidence of fraud on the part of the defendant. Why
did he not ask Jones, who occupied an adjoining office, if he
would sell? But by concealing his identity he could by such
means the more easily avoid any questions relative to the
negotiations for the sale of the lands and their probable result,
and could also avoid any actual misrepresentations on that
subject, which he evidently thought were necessary in his case
to constitute a fraud. He kept up the concealment as long as
he could, by giving the check of a third person for the purchase
money. Evidence that he did so was objected to on the ground
that it could not possibly even tend to prove that the prior
consent to sell had been procured by the subsequent check
given in payment. That was not its purpose. Of course, the
giving of the check could not have induced the prior consent,
but it was proper evidence as tending to show that the concealment of identity was not a mere inadvertent omission, an
omission without any fraudulent or deceitful intent, but was a
studied and intentional omission to be characterized as part
of the deceitful machinations to obtain the purchase without
giving any information whatever as to the state and probable
result of the negotiations, to the vendor of the stock, and to in
that way obtain the same at a lower price. After the purchase
of the stock he continued his negotiations for the sale of the
lands, and finally, he says, as administrator general of the
company, under the special authority of the shareholders, and
as attorney in fact he entered into the contract of sale December 21, 1903. The whole transaction gives conclusive evidence
of the overwhelming influence defendant had in the course of
the negotiations as owner of a majority of the stock and as agent
for the other owners, and it is clear that the final consummation was in his hands at all times. If under all these facts he
purchased the stock from the plaintiff, the law would indeed
be impotent if the sale could not be set aside or the defendant
cast in damages for'his fraud.
The Supreme Court of the islands, in holdiug that there was
VOL. ccxIn-28

OCTOBER TERM, IQ08.
Opinion of the Court.

213 U. S.

no fraud in the purchase, said that the responsibility of the
directprs of a corporation to the individual stockholders did not
extend beyond the corporate property actually under the control of the directors; that they did not owe any duty to the
members in respect to their individual stock, which would prevent them from purchasing the same in the usual manner.
While this may in general be true, we think it is not an accurate statement of the case, regard being had to the facts above
mentioned.
It is said that by the code of commerce of the Philippine
Islands the directors are declared to be mandatories of the society, and that by article 1459 of the Spanish Civil Code they
are prohibited. from acquiring by purchase, even at public or
judicial auction, the property the administration or sale of
which may have been entrusted to them, and that this is the extent of the prohibition. This provision has no reference to the
purchase for himself, under such facts as existed here, by an
officer of a corporation, of stock in the corporation owned by
another. The case before us seems a plain one for holding that,
.under the circumstances detailed, there was a legal obligation
on the part of the defendant to make these disclosures.
It is further objected, however, that the plaintiff, Mrs.
Strong, denied that she had ever authorized her agent to sell
this stock, and therefore by her own evidence there had never
been any consent by her, obtained by fraud or otherwise, because there had never been any'consent'at all. There is nothing
in this objection. Mrs. Strong contended that such authority
as she had given never authorized her agent to sell this stock.
That had nothing to do with the obligation of the defendant toa
make the disclosuie of the facts already adverted to before the
purchase of the stock from plaintiff's agent, and if, by reason
of such failure, the defendant was guilty of a fraud in procuring
the purchase from the plaintiff's agent it was a fraud, for which
h4-e
became liable to the plaintiff, even though the plaintiff
maintained that her agent was not authorized 'to sell. The
court held that he was authorized, and therefore if he sold by

DEL. & HUD. CO. v. ALBANY & SUSQUEHANNA. 435
213 U. S.

Syllabus.

reason of the fraud committed by defendant the plaintiff was
thereby injured and the defendant became liable. In legal
effect her consent was obtained by the fraud.
We have not overlooked the objections made in regard to the
form of the judgment in the Court of First Instance, but are
of opinion that such objections are not of a material nature,

and we are disposed to follow the course pursued by that court*
in this case.
Other objections made by the defendant's counsel we have examined, but do not regard them as important. We therefore
reverse the judgment of the Supreme Court, dismissing the
complaint, and affirm that of the Court of First Instahce, and
It is so ordered.

DELAWARE •AND HUDSON COMPANY: v. ALBANY
AND SUSQUEHANNA RAILROAD COMPANY.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 416. Argued February 23, 24, 1909'.-Decided May 3, 1909.
Equity rule No. 94, which is intended to secure the Federal courts from
imposition upon their jurisdiction, recognizes the right of the corporate directory to corporate control, and expresses primarily the conditions which must precede the right of the stockholders to protect
the corporation in cases where the directory is derelict; but the requirements of the rule may be dispensed with where they do not apply
by reason of antagonism between the directory and the corporate
interest.
Equity rule No. 94 is intended to have a practical application and it does
not apply where the corporate interests can cnly be protected by a
suit, which, if successful, would be detrimental to all the directors in
other capacities.
Where, as in this case, stockholders of a lessor corporation sued, for its
benefit, the lessee corporation, the directors of the two corporations
being almost identical and the lessee corporation also owning, or

