Oct. 1877.]

CHUBB V. UPTON.

CHUBB V. UPTON.
1. A party who made a contract with an organization which had attempted
irregularly to create itself into a corporation, and which acted as such, or
who subscribed to its capital stock, cannot, in a suit by the corporation, defend himself against a claim growing out of such contract or subscription
by alleging the irregularity of such organization.
2. The same rule applies where the stock of a corporation has been increased,
and the question arises upon the liability of a subscriber for the increased
stock.
8. An assignee in bankruptcy of a corporation represents it and its creditors,
and the defence of its irregular organization cannot be set up against him
by such subscriber.
4. A party receiving a certificate for a certain number of shares of stock, at a
given sum per share, thereby becomes liable to pay the amount thereof when
called upon by the corporation or its assignee.
5. Upton v. Tribleock, 91 U. S. 45, Sanger v. Upton, id. 56, and Webster v. Upton,
id. 65, cited and approved.

E itop. to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Michigan.
Upton, as assignee in bankruptcy of the Great Western
Insurance Company, a corporation organized under the laws
of Illinois, brought this suit against Chubb. The company was
originally chartered by the legislature in 1857.
In 1870, acting under the general laws of that State authorizing insurance companies to increase their capital stock, the
directors and stockholders of the company took measures to
increase its capital stock, and filed their papers for that purpose with the secretary of state, and the auditor of public
accounts. By these proceedings the company undertook to
increase its stock to $5,000,000.
The company, assuming that its stock had been increased,
took subscriptions and issued certificates therefor, and immediately commenced doing business, issuing policies, &c., upon
the basis of such an increase. Dec. 31, 1870, it held out to the
public that its subscribed stock was .81,188,000, of which
$222,831 was paid in, and 8965,169 subscribed, for which the
subscribers or holders were liable. Chubb became a subscriber
to this increased stock, and a certificate for fifty shares was
issued to him on the twenty-fifth day of November, 1870.
The company had a branch office at Grand lapids, where

CHUBB V. UPTON.

[Sup. Ct.

meetings of the stockholders residing there were held. Chubb
-was president of said branch, took part in those meetings, and
also in a meeting of stockholders and directors held at Chicago
in January, 1871. He paid money on his stock, and at one
time, while holding it, gave another person a proxy to attend
and vote at a stockholder's meeting at Chicago.
The company continued to do business, issue policies, &c.,
until it was put into bankruptcy, February, 1872. Upton was
duly appointed assignee of the company on the eleventh day
of April, 1872; 'nd the court sitting in bankruptcy made an
order upon the stockholders to pay, on or before Aug. 15, 1872,
the balance due upon their stock. Notice was duly served
upon them.
Upon the trial of the cause, Chubb objected to the production in evidence of the proceedings by which the company in
creased its stock, upon the ground of their alleged irregularities,
and of informality in the papers filed in the public offices.
The objections were overruled, and Chubb excepted to the
ruling of the court.
He also objected to the introduction in evidence of papers
filed in the public offices of Illinois by the company, showing
that it was doing business, and that it had stock subscribed to
a large amount. This objection was overruled, and an exception taken.
He further offered to prove that he was induced to purchase
the stock by false representations that he would only be compelled to pay twenty per cent upon the amount subscribed; and
that the holders of the stock in the original company never
increased their stock or authorized any one to increase it, and
never sold or transferred it to the new company. The court
excluded the evidence, and he excepted.
The court substantially charged the jury, that upon the admitted facts, and upon further facts proved by the plaintiff by
uncontradicted and documentary evidence, the plaintiff was
entitled to recover, and that the matters offered in evidence by
the defendant constituted no defence to the action. The defendant excepted to the instruction.
There was a judgment against Chubb, who thereupon removed
the case here.

Oct. 187T.]

CHUBB V. UPTON.

Mr. J. W. Champlin for the plaintiff in error.
MIr. 3. J. Smiley, contra.
MR. JUSTICE HUNT delivered the opinion of the court.

The numerous questions raised upon the trial of this action
depend upon a few general principles which are not difficult
of application.
It is settled by the decisions of the courts of the United
States and by the decision of many of the State courts that
one who contracts with an acting corporation cannot defend
himself against a claim on such contract, in a suit by the corpwration, by alleging the irregularity of its organization. This
was settled more than a half a century since in the courts of
the State of New York, and has recently been affirmed in this
court. Dutehess Collar M11anufacturing Co. v. -Davis,14 Johns.
(N. Y.) 237 ; Sanger v. Upton, 91 U. S. 56 ; Upton v. Tribilcock, id. 45; Buffalo J. Allegheny Railroad Co. v. Cary, 26 N. Y.
75 ; Bissell v. Michigan Southern Railroad Co., 22 id. 258.
The same principle applies to the case of a subscription
to the capital stock in an organization which has attempted
irregularly to create itself into a corporation, and has acted
as such. Methodist Episcopal Church v. Pickett,19 N. Y. 482;
Upton v. Haamborn, 3 Biss. 417.
The rule applies to increasing the stock of a corporation
when the question arises upon paying a subscription for stock
forming a part of such increase. The duty and the necessity
of performing the contract of subscription are the same as in the
case of an original stockholder.
An assignee appointed under the bankrupt laws of the United
States represents both the corporation and its creditors, and
the defence of irregular organization cannot be urged against
him.
It has been several times adjudged in this court, that, in an
action by such assignee to recover unpaid subscriptions upon
stock in such an organization, the defence of false and fraudu
lent representations inducing such subscription cannot be set
up; especially when the subscriber has not been vigilant in
discovering such fraud, and in repudiating his contract. Upton
v. Tribilcock, 91 U. S. 45; Webster v. Upton, id. 65; Sanger

CHUBB V. UPTON.

[Sup. CL.

v. Upton, id. 56; Ogilvie v. Knox Insurance Co., 22 How.
880.
The same authorities hold that one who receives a certificate
of stock for a certain number of shares, at a given sum per
share, thereby becomes liable to pay the amount thereof when
called upon by the corporation or its assignee. Nor is it necessary to sustain the action that there should have been a
subscription for the whole amount named on the articles.
1?ensselaer & Washington _Plank. Boad Co. v. Westel, 21 Barb.

(N. Y.) 56.
The statute of Illinois of 1869 authorized an increase of the
capital of the Great Western Insurance Company. Papers
were filed under the law for that purpose, which were examined
by the Attorney-General, and certified to be in due form; and
the company proceeded to issue its stock upon that theory.
The defendant became a subscriber for fifty shares of this
increased stock, the shares being $100 each. He paid a portion, to wit, thirty per cent, of this subscription. He attended
meetings of the stockholders and of the directors, acting himself as such. He gave another person a proxy to attend a
meeting of the stockholders at Chicago, and to vote for him;
and he was elected and acted as the president of a branch of
the said company.
It is idle to deny that this was the case of an organization
which claimed to have taken, and apparently supposed that it
had taken, the measures required by law to complete its increase of capital. It acted as such, and the defendant, by receiving his certificate of stock, entered into engagements with
it as such. If it be conceded that its increased stock was but
de facto, and that it could have been annulled or suppressed by
the action of the Attorney-General as acting under an irregular
organization, the defendant derives no aid from the admission.
The cases cited are clear to the point that he cannot make the
objection, but must perform the engagements he has made.
The last offer of the defendant was intended to present this
question in its most formidable shape. It was to show that
the original capital of $100,000 was fully subscribed; that the
holders of this stock never increased the cipital nor authorized
its increase; that this company ceased to do business prior to

Oct. 1877.]

COIUBB V. UPTON.

1868; that the $100,000 was not transferred to the company
claiming to have organized on the increased capital; and that
there was no valid transfer of the original stock or charter.
All this does not alter the fact that there was an attempted
alteration of the company under the forms of law, approved by
the Attorney-General, with an increased capital, in the organization and management of which the defendant took part;
that he paid his money, received his certificate of st ck, attended meetings, voted, acted as an officer, and, so far as the
record shows, never repudiated his position at any time, even
to the time of the trial. If successful, he would have shared
in its profits. He may have been the dupe and victim of the
action of others. He may have been an accomplice. At all
events, he was so far an actor in the affair that he cannot escape
the consequences of his position.
Another series of objections is to the admission of various
pieces of evidence introduced to show that the defendant was
a stockholder. The original stock-ledger had been destroyed by
fire, and the plaintiff supplied its place by the introduction of
sundry other kinds of evidence tending to prove who were the
stockholders, and that the defendant was one of them. The
importance of this evidence was at an end when the certificate
of shares was afterwards given in proof, and when it was expressly admitted by the defendant that he held the same; that
he made payments thereon, and acted as a holder of shares in
the company. It is not xecessary, therefore, to inquire whether
or not the evidence was properly admitted.
At the time this writ of error was taken, the decisions of
this court in Upton v. Tribileock, Sanger v. Upton, and Webster
v. Upton, to which we have referred, had not been made.
They contain a clear statement of our views upon all the material questions arising in this record, and we suppose that this
writ of error would not have been brought had they then been
known to the party and his counsel. The careful examination
then given to the several questions renders unnecessary a detailed review of them.
We think there is nothing in the record before us that would
justify us in disturbing the verdict and judgment rendered in
the Circuit Court.
Judgment affirmed.

