Oct. 1877.]

INSURANCE CO. v. PECHNER.

Much is said in argument on the subject of the rescission of
the contract. The contract of loan was upon the note or
notes of Reakirt, and in form was that of an ordinary loan of
money. He gave forged securities as collateral. Whether this
justified a rescission on the part of the bank of the entire contract, or whether the bank did rescind, we do not consider of
any importance. If it could have identified and followed its
money, this question might have become practical. But, as
there is an entire failure of proof in that respect, the question
Judgment affirmed.
does not arise.

INSURANCE CoMPANY v. PECH-ER.
1. A person not a citizen of the State, in a court whereof he is sued, cannot,
under the twelfth section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, remove the suit to
the Circuit Court of the United States, by reason of the citizenship of the
parties, unless his petition for removal affirmatively shows that the plaintiff
was, at the time of the commencement of the suit, a citizen of such State.
9. The right of removal is statutory; and, before a party can avail himself of it
to oust the jurisdiction of a State court, he must show upon the record that
his case is one which comes within the provisions of the statute.

ERROR to the Court of Appeals of the State of New York.
On the 1st of June, 1867, Pechner sued the Phoenix Insurance Company, a Connecticut corporation, in the Supreme Court
of Chemung County, in the State of New York, upon a policy
of insurance. On the 8th of the following month, and at the
time of entering its appearance, the company presented to the
court a petition, accompanied by the necessary security, for
the removal of the cause to the Circuit Court of the United
States. The petition, when taken in connection with the pleadings, set forth sufficiently the citizenship of the defendant in
the State of Connecticut; but as to the citizenship of the
plaintiff, the statement was, that, "as your petitioner is informed and believes, Isidor Pechner, the plaintiff in said action,
is a citizen of the State of New York." The petition bears
date June 11, 1867, and was sworn to the next day. Upon its
presentation the court approved the security, but denied the
application for removal.

INSURANCE Co. v. PECHNER.

[Sup. Ct.

On the 5th of June, 1869, the plaintiff filed an amended
complaint, to which the defendant answered June 21, 1869.
On the 2d of February, 1872, the cause coming on for trial, the
defendant again presented its original petition for removal,
which remained upon the files, and requested the court to proceed no further with the trial; but this request was denied,
for the reason that the petition did not state facts sufficient
to remove the cause. A jury was thereupon called, which
returned a verdict in favor of the plaintiff, and judgment was
in due form entered thereon against the defendant. The
case was then taken to the Court of Appeals, where the
judgment was affirmed, and the petition for removal held
to be insufficient in law to effect a transfer of the cause,
.for the reason that it did not state affirmatively that Pechner
was a citizen of the State of New York when the suit was
commenced.
To reverse this judgment the present writ of error has been
brought by the company, and the only error assigned is
grounded upon this decision.
Mr. . P. Cogswell for the plaintiff in error.
The plaintiff in error having taken the necessary steps to
remove the action from the State to the Federal court, and
the former having refused its application in that behalf, the
judgment subsequently rendered is reviewable in this court,
notwithstanding a defence of the action on the merits. Gordon v. Longest, 16 Pet. 97; Kanouse v. Martin, 15 How. 198.
The compliance with the conditions of the act of Congress
ousted the Supreme Court of New York of its jurisdiction, and
all further proceedings therein were void. 1 Stat. 79, sect. 12.
Stevens v. Pheniz Insurance Co., 41 N. Y. 149; Gordon v.
Longest, supra; Kanouse v. Martin, supra.
Nor can the decision below be sustained by the verbal criticism of the Court of Appeals. Ladd v. Tudor, 3 Woodb. &
M. 325; People v. City of Chicago, 34 Ill. 356; Sweeney v.
Coffin, 1 Dill. 73; Shepard v. Graves, 14 How. 505.
The petition following the language of the act of Congress
is sufficient, and this is shown especially by the uniform practice in the Federal courts under the next preceding section of
the same statute. Bingham v. Cabot et al., 3 Dall. 382; Aber.

Oct. 1877.]

INSURANCE CO.-V. PECHNER.

erombie v. Dupuis, 1 Cranch, 842; Piqugnot v. Pennsylvania
Railroad Co., 16 How. 104.
Although, in nearly all the States of the Union, for many
years the only method by which a suit could be commenced
was by some process the service and return of which preceded
the filing of the declaration, the language of the declaration
has been uniformly in the present tense. Mollan v. Torrence,
9 Wheat. 537; MLfarshall v. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad Co.,
16 How. 314; Lafayette Insurance Co. v. French et al., 18 id.
404.
Mr. J. ifubley Ashton, and Mr. N'athaniel Wilson, contra.
Mi . CHIEF JUSTICE WArrE
court.
The application for removal
sect. 12 of the Judiciary Act
section, so far as it is important
case, reads as follows -

delivered the opinion of the
in this case was made under
of 1789. 1 Stat. 79. That
for the determination of this

"If a suit be commenced in any State court . .. by a citizen of
the State in which the suit is brought against a citizen of another
State,

. . .

and the defendant shall, at the time of entering his

appearance in such State court, file a petition for the removal of the
cause for trial into the next Circuit Court, . . . it shall then be
the duty of the State court to . .. proceed no further in the

cause."
Clearly this has reference to the citizenship of the parties
when the suit is begun; for the language is, "If a suit be commenced by a citizen of the State in which the suit is brought
against a citizen of another State, the defendant may, when he
enters his appearance, petition for its removal." The phraseology employed in the acts of 1866, 14 Stat. 807, 1867, id. 558,
and 1875, 18 id. 470, and in the Revised Statutes, sect. 639, is
somewhat different, and we are not now called upon to give a
construction to the language there used. As to the act of 1789,
we entertain no doubt in this particular.
This right of removal is statutory. Before a party can avail
himself of it, he must show upon the record that his is a case
which comes within the provisions of the statute. His petition
for removal, when filed, becomes a part of the record in the

Am0RI v. AmORY.

[Sup. Ot.

cause. It should state facts, which, taken in connection with
such as already appear, entitle him to the transfer. If he fails
in this, he has not, in law, shown to the court that it cannot
"proceed further with the cause." Having once acquired jurisdiction, the court may proceed until it is judicially informed
that its power over the cause has been suspended.
It remains only to apply this rule to the facts as they appear
in this record. The suit was commenced June 1, 1867. At
that time there was nothing in the pleadings or process to indicate the citizenship of the plaintiff. The defendant, in its
petition for removal, bearing date June 11, simply stated that
the plaintiff is - that is to say, was at that date - a citizen of
New York. This certainly is not stating affirmatively that
such was his citizenship when the suit was commenced. The
court had the right to take the case as made by the party himself, and not inquire further. If that was not sufficient to oust
the jurisdiction, there was no reason why the court might not
proceed with the cause. We think, therefore, that the Court
of Appeals did not err in its decision.
Judgment affirmed.

AmoRY v. A.oRY.
SAME V. SAI1E.
1. A petition for the removal from a State court of a suit brought by the plain.
tiffs in their representative capacity as executors is insufficient, under the
act of March 2, 1867 (14 Stat. 558), where the defendant, who is not a citizen of the State where the suit is brought, alleges, so far as the citizenship
of the plaintiffs is concerned, that they, "as such executors," axe citizens of
that State.
2. Where the jurisdiction of the courts of the United States depends upon the
citizenship of the parties, it has reference to their personal citizenship.
8. Insurance Company v. Pechner, supra, p. 183, cited and approved.

ERRoR to the Superior Court of the city of New York.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
H.r. . T. Birdsall and 21r. W. B. Beebe for the plaintiff
inerror.
The court declined to hear Hr. Hatt. H. Oarpenter for the
defendants in error.

