[Sup. Ct.

BATES V. CLARIK.

the enforcement of which is sought. The delay of one to this
extent in prosecuting his rights under a contract is, except
under special circumstances not existing here, such laches as
disentitle him to the aid of a court of equity.
Decree affirmed.
0

BATES v. CLARK.
1. In the absence of any different provision by treaty or by act of Congress, all
the country described by the first section of the act of June 30, 1834 (4 Stat.
729), as Indian country, remains such only as long as the Indians retain their
title to the soil.
2. Whatever may be the rule in time of war and in the presence of actual hostilities, military officers can no more protect themselves than civilians for
wrongs committed in time of peace under 'orders emanating from a source
which is itself without authority in the premises. Hence a military officer,
seizing liquors supposed to be in Indian country when they are not, is liable
to an action as a trespasser.
3. The difference between the value of the goods so seized, at the place where
they were taken and the place where they were returned to the owners, is
the proper measure of damages.

to the Supreme Court of the Territory of Dakota.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
ERROR

Mr. Assistant Attorney- General .Smith for the plaintiffs in
error.
Mr. John B. Sanborn, contra.
MR. JUSTICE MUJLER delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff in error, Bates, was a captain in the army of
the United States, in command at Fort Seward, in the Territory of Dakota, near the crossing of the James River by the
North Pacific Railroad; and Yeckley, the other plaintiff in
error, was a lieutenant under him at the time of the commission of the trespass for which the judgment in this case was
recovered against them. The defendants in error, plaintiffs
below, were doing a general mercantile business on the James
River, also near said crossing, when a lot of whiskey, part of
their stock of goods, was seized by defendants. They brought
this action to recover damages for the trespass. The defendants pleaded their official character, that the plaue where the

Oct. 1877.]

BATES V. CLARK.

seizure was made was Indian country, and it was, therefore,
their duty to seize the whiskey which was kept there for purpose of sale, and that, in accordance with the acts of Congress
on that subject, they had delivered the whiskey to the marshal
of the United States, under a writ from the proper court, on a
proceeding instituted by the United States attorney for that
district. They further pleaded, that before the commencement
of this action the goods had been delivered to plaintiffs by tho
marshal, and that plaintiffs had suffered no damage. They also
set up an order of the commanding officer of the department of
Dakota.
The act of June 80, 1884, entitled "An Act to regulate trade
and intercourse with the Indian tribes and to preserve peace on
the frontier," which is a very long and important act, begins by
describing in its first section the country or territory in which
that act shall be operative. It is in these words "Be it enacted, that all that part of the United States west of
the Mississippi, and not within the States of Missouri and Louisiana,
or the Territory of Arkansas, and also that part of the United
States east of the Mississippi River, and not within any State to
which the Indian title has not been extinguished, for the purpose5
of this act, be taken and deemed Indian country." 4 Stat. 729.
The twentieth section of that act forbids the introduction of
wines or spirituous liquors within this Territory. By the act of
1864, amending this section, it is made lawful for any Indian
agent or commanding officer of a military post, -who has reason to
suspect that spirituous liquors or wines have been, or are about
to be, introduced into Indian country in violation of law, to
search for and seize the same, to be delivered over to the proper
officer, and proceeded against by libel in the proper court, and
forfeited, one half to the informer and the other half to the use
of the United States. 13 id. 29.
If this whiskey was seized in Indian country, within the meaning of the act of 1834 and the amendment of 1864, the plea
which set up that the defendants acted in good faith under that
statute ought to be sustained. This, the principal question in
the case, is raised by the action of the court below in striking
out the plea which set up these defences as sham and frivolous,

BATES V. CLARK.

[Sup. Ct.

and because the locus in quo was not Indian country. This
mode of disposing of a plea which fairly raises a most important issue of law seems to be growing in favor in the territorial
courts. It is an unscientific and unprofessional mode of raising
and deciding a pure issue of law. This should always be done,
when it can, by a demurrer, which is the recognized and appropriate mode in the common law; or by exception, which
amounts to the same thing in the civil law, as it is applied to
answers in chancery practice. A motion to strike out a plea is
properly made when it has been filed irregularly, is not sworn
to, if that is required, or wants signature of counsel, or any
defect of that character; but if a real and important issue of law
is to be made, that issue should be raised by demurrer.
In the present case, this is unimportant, as the same question
is presented by the prayer for instructions and by the charge
of the court.
What, then, is Indian country, within the meaning of the
acts of Congress regulating intercourse with the Indians?
The first act of Congress on the subject is that of March 30,
1802. 2 Stat. 139. TlIe first section of that act describes a
boundary, the description occupying over a page of the statutebook, and declares that this shall be distinctly marked under
orders of the President, and considered as the line of the Indian
territory, or Indian country as it is called indifferently in several
sections of the act. The country west of the Mississippi then
belonged to France or Spain. The boundary above mentioned,
commencing at the mouth of the Cayahoga River, on Lake Erie,
now Cleveland, runs in a wonderfully tortuous course through
the country north-west of the Ohio River to the falls of that
river, now Louisville, then down that river to a point between
the mouths of the Cumberland and Tennessee Rivers, and
thence through Kentucky, Tennessee, and Georgia, to the St.
Mary's River, pursuing all the way the lines represented by
treaties with various Indian tribes.
Though many statutes concerning intercourse with the Indians and prescribing offences within the Indian country were
passed, no other attempt to define what was Indian country
was made by Congress until the act of 1834, the first section
of which we have given verbatim. In the mean time, we had

Oct. 1877.]

BA.TES V. CLARK.

purchased the country west of the Mississippi, and had organized two States and a Territory there, and most of the Indians
with whom we had to deal lived there. The country east of
the Mississippi, and not within any State, was the region north
of Illinois and Indiana, and north-west of Ohio, now constituting
the States of Michigan and Wisconsin, and then under the government of the Michigan Territory.
Notwithstanding the immense changes which have since
taken place in the vast region covered by the act of 1834,
by the extinguishment of Indian titles, the creation of States
and the formation of territorial governments, Congress has not
thought it necessary to make any new definition of Indian
country. Yet during all this time a large body of laws has
been in existence, whose operation was confined to the Indian
country, whatever that may be. And men have been punished
by death, by fine, and by imprisonment, of which the courts
who so punished them had no jurisdiction, if the offences were
not committed in the Indian country as established by law.
These facts afford the strongest presumption that the Congress
of the United States, and the judges who administered those
laws, must have found in the definition of Indian country, in
the act of 1834, such an adaptability to the altered circumstances of what was then Indian country as to enable them to
ascertain what it was at any time since then.
If the section which we have given verbatim be read with a
comma or semicolon inserted after the word " State," or if,
without the insertion of any point there, we read it so as to
apply the words, "to which the Indian title has not been extinguished," to all the region mentioned in the section, we have a
criterion which will always distinguish what is Indian country
from what is not, so long as the existing system governing our
relations with Indians is continued. Read hastily, it might
appear that these words were limited in their application to
that part of the United States east of the Mississippi River.
But a strict reading in that sense is that it is the State to which
the Indian title has not been extinguished that governs the
matter. "And not within any State to which the Indian title
has not been extinguished," implies that Indians had title to
some State then in existence, and that there were other States

BATES V. CLARK.

[Sup. Ct;.

to which their title had been extinguished. This meaning is
too absurd to be considered.
On the other hand, if the section be read as describing lands
west of the Mississippi, outside of the States of Louisiana and
Missouri, and of the Territory of Arkansas, and lands east of
the Mississippi not included in any State, but lands alone to
which the Indian title has not been extinguished, we have a
description of the Indian country which was good then, and
which is good now, and which is capable of easy application at
any time.
The simple criterion is that as to all the lands thus described
it was Indian country whenever the Indian title had not been
extinguished, and it continued to be Indian country so long as
the Indians had title to it, and no longer. As soon as they
parted with the title, it ceased to be Indian country, without
any further act of Congress, unless by the treaty by which the
Indians parted with their title, or by some act of Congress, a
different rule was made applicable to the case.
In the case of The American Fur Companyi v. The United
States, 2 Pet. 358, decided in 1829, the goods of the company had been seized for violating the laws by their introduction into the Indian country under the act of 1802. This
court held that if, by treaties made with the Indians after
the passage of that act, their title to the region where the
offence was committed had been extinguished, it had thereby
ceased to be Indian country, and the statute did not apply
to it.
So in the case of United States v. Forty-thiree Gallons of
TW7iske&/, decided at the last term, 93 U. S. 188, where this act
of 1834 was fully considered; while the court holds that by a
certain clause in the treaty by which the locus in quo was ceded
by the Indians, it remained Indian country until they removed
from it, the whole opinion goes upon the hypothesis that when
the Indian title is extinguished it ceases to be Indian country,
unless some such reservation takes it out of the rule. When
this treaty was made, in 1864, the land ceded was within the
territorial limits of the State of Minnesota. The opinion holds
that it was Indian country before the treaty, and did not cease
to be so when the treaty was made, by reason of the special

Oct 1 8771.]

BATES V. CLARK.

clause to the contrary in the treaty, though within the boundaries of a State.
It follows from this that all the country described by the act
of 1834 as Indian country remains Indian country so long as
the Indians retain their original title to the soil, and ceases to
be Indian country whenever they lose that title, in the absence
of any different provision by treaty or by act of Congress.
The plaintiffs below violated no law in having the whiskey for
sale at the place where it was seized ; and the twentieth section
of the act of 1834, as amended by the act of 1864, conferred no
authority whatever on the defendants to seize the property.
It is a sufficient answer to the plea, that the defendants were
subordinate officers acting under orders of a superior, to say
that whatever may be the rule in time of war and in the presence of actual hostilities, military officers can no more protect
themselves than civilians in time of peace by orders emanating
from a source which is itself without authority. The authority
of the commandant of the post in the case was precisely the
same as the Indian agent or sub-agent, or superintendent; and
it will hardly be maintained that if either of them, wholly mistaking their powers, had seized the goods, he would have incurred no liability.
So the plea that they had good reason to believe that this
was Indian country, and that they acted in good faith, while it
might excuse these officers from punitory damages, is no defence
to the action. If it had been Indian country, and it bad turned
out that the plaintiffs had a license, or did not intend to sell or
introduce the goods, the fact that defendants acted on reasonable ground would have exempted them from liability.
But the objection fatal to all this class of defences is that in
that locality they were utterly without any authority in the
premises; and their honest belief that they had is no defence in
tleir case more than in any other, where a party mistaking his
rights commits a trespass by forcibly seizing and taking away
another man's property.
There was here no process from a competent court, nor any
order from any source having authority, and there is, therefore,
no defence.
As the damages found in the verdict are measured by the
VOL.

.

14

RADICH V. HUTCHINS.

[Sup. Ct.

difference in value of the property at the time and place where
seized, and the time and place where returned to the possession
of the plaintiffs, we see no error in the rule by which they were
ascertained.
Judgment affirmed.

RADIOH V. HUTCHINS.
1. Carlisle v. United States, 16 Wall. 147, cited and approved.
2. A foreigner, domiciled during the year 1864 in Texas, who, in order to obtain
permission of the rebel government to export his cotton, sold at a nominal
price, and delivered to its agents or officers for its use, an equal amount of
other cotton, which he subsequently redeemed by paying a stipulated sum
therefor, directly contributed to the support of the enemy, and gave him aid
and comfort. Out of such a transaction, no demand against such agents or
officers can arise which will be enforced in the courts of the United States.
3. The coercion or duress which will render a payment involuntary must consist
of some actual or threatened exercise of power possessed, or believed to be
possessed, by the party exacting or receiving the payment, over the person
or property of another, from which the latter has no other means of immediate relief than by making payment.

ERRoR. to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Texas.
This was an action brought by Radich against Hutchins and
Wells. He alleges in his petition that he is a subject of the
Emperor of Russia, and that he was, in 1864, the owner of four
hundred and fifty bales of cotton, of the value of $50,000, which
he designed to export from Texas, where he then resided, to
Mexico, and which were then in transit on their way to Matamoras; that the defendant Hutchins, claiming to be a lieutenantcolonel in the army of the Confederate States, and chief of the
cotton office at Houston in that State, combining with the defendant Wells and others, had, without warrant of law, by a
public notice, prohibited the exportation of cotton from the
State, except upon written permits from his office; that such permits would not be issued, except upon condition that the person
desiring to export cotton should sell to them an equal amount, at
a nominal and arbitrary price, for the benefit of the Confederate
States; that, being desirous to export and sell his cotton, because of the risk incurred of its destruction or loss during the
ivar, and knowing that if he should attempt to send it beyond

