THOmPSON v. BUTLER.

[Sup. Pit.

that such a construction is not necessary. The words of the
charter granting the exemption are fully satisfied by confining
their operation to the corporations themselves; and I do not
feel at liberty to give them a broader significance, in view of
the settled rule I have noticed, that a State's right of taxation
will not be held to have been surrendered unless the intention
to surrender is manifested in words too plain to be mistaken.
Had the legislature intended to extend the exemption beyond
the companies themselves, it would have been easy to place
the intent beyond doubt, by simply saying the tax should be
in lieu of all other taxation of the company or its stockholders.
But nothing like this, or equivalent to it, is found in the charter.
I find nothing in Gordon v. The Appeal Tax Court, 3 How.
133, so much relied upon by the plaintiffs in error, necessarily
inconsistent with what I have said. That case has not been
well understood. The circumstances were peculiar, and the
decision rendered should be considered with reference to the
peculiar facts which appeared in it. What was, in fact, decided
we had occasion to observe in People v. The Commissioners,
4 Wall. 244, where Mr. Justice Nelson directed attention to the
circumstances that more or less controlled the judgment.
For these reasons, which I have not time to elaborate, I
think the judgments of the Supreme Court of Tennessee should
be affirmed.

THOMSON v. BUTLER.
In a suit in the Circuit Court, where the defendant pleaded neither a set-off nor
a counter-claim, the plaintiff remitted so much of a verdict in his favor as
was in excess of $5,000, and took judgment for the remainder "in coin."
The defendant sued out a writ of error. Held, that the amount in controversy, whether payable in coin or any other kind of money, is not sufficient to
give this court jurisdiction.

to dismiss a writ of error to the Circuit Court of
the United States for the District of Massachusetts.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
r. G. A. Somerby and Mr. L. S. -Dabney,for the defendant
in error, in support of the motion.
lr/-. J ffubley Ashton and Hr James Thomson, contra.
MoTIOxT

Oct. 1877.]

THOMPSON v. BUTLER.

MR. CaEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
This was an action by Butler against Thompson, to recover
damages for not accepting a quantity of iron under an alleged
contract of purchase. Upon the trial, the jury rendered a
verdict against Thompson of $5,066.17 "in gold;" but, before
judgment, Butler remitted $66.17, and judgment was entered
Nov. 13,1876, for $5,000 "in coin." Thompson having brought
the case here by writ of error, Butler moves to dismiss, because
the "matter in dispute" does "not exceed the sum or value of
$5,000."
As the writ of error was sued out by the defendant below,
the amount in controversy was fixed by the judgment. Gordon
v. Ogden, 3 Pet. 33; Knapp v. Banks, 2 How.73; Walker v.
United States, 4 Wall. 163; .ferrill v. Petty, 16 id. 838. No
question is presented growing out of a set-off or counter-claim,
as was the case in Btyan v. Bindley, I id. 66.
Our jurisdiction cannot be invoked until the final judgment
below has been rendered; and we cannot open the record to
look for errors until jurisdiction has been established. The
court below retains full control of a cause until final judgment
has been entered; and it follows that, if for any reason a judgment is given against a defendant in a case involving the plaintiff's cause of action alone, unaffected by counter-claim or set-off,
for a sum less than our jurisdictional amount, we have no power,
at the instance of the defendant, to correct errors that may have
been committed in settling the amount. We can only look at
a verdict through the record; and, if the record is closed to us,
so necessarily must be the verdict. In this case, therefore, we
are precluded from inquiry into the propriety of allowing the
verdict to be reduced before judgment was entered upon it.
Necessarily, verdicts are, to some extent, subject to the control
of the court. It is not unusual for a court to announce that a
new trial will be granted unless a part of a verdict shall be
remitted, and to enter judgment upon the reduced amount if
the suggestion is followed. All such matters may properly be
left to the sound judicial discretion of the court in which the
trial is had; and errors committed under this power can only
be corrected by an appellate court in the same manner that

THOmPSON v. BUTLER.

[Sup. Ot.

other errors are. Undoubtedly, the trial court may refuse to
permit a verdict to be reduced by a plaintiff upon his own
motion; and, if the object of the reduction is to deprive an
appellate court of jurisdiction 'in a meritorious case, it is to be
presumed the trial court will not allow it to be done. If, however, the reduction is permitted, the eriors in the record will be
shut out from our re-examination in cases where our jurisdiction
depends upon the amount in controversy. In Sampson v. WelcA,
24 How. 207, we refused to take jurisdiction upon an appeal in
admiralty, where a decree had been rendered against a respondent for more than $2,000, with leave to him, if he chose, to set
off an amount due him for freight, and he afterwards, by the
set-off, reduced the decree below our jurisdictional amount, notwithstanding, in signifying his election to make the set-off, he
expressly stated in a writing, which appeared in the record, that
he did not thereby waive his right of appeal.
If the remittiturhad not been entered until after the judgment, the case would have been different, and, if the reduction was made without the assent of the defendant, more like
Kanouse v. Martin,15 id. 198, where a declaration was amended
in a State court so as to reduce the damages claimed below the
jurisdictional amount, after the necessary steps had been taken
for the transfer of the cause to the Circuit Court, and in which
we held that the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court could not be
defeated in that way.
We have no jurisdiction if the sum or value of the matter in
dispute does not exceed $5,000. One owing a debt may pay
it in gold coin or legal-tender notes of the United States, as he
chooses, unless there is something to the contrary in the obligation out of which the debt arises. A coin dollar is worth no
more for the purposes of tender in payment of an ordinary debt
than a note dollar. The law has not made the note a standard
oi value any more than coin. It is true that in the market,
as an article of merchandise, one is of greater value than the
other; but as money, that is to say, as a medium of exchange,
the law knows no difference between them. We are aware
that in Bronson v. Bodes, 7 Wall. 229, it was said that a contract to pay in gold or silver coins "is, in legal import, nothing
else than an agreement to deliver a certain weight of standard

Oct. 1877.]

RAILROAD CO. V. HOUSTON.

gold, to be ascertained by a count of coins," and that "it is not
distinguishable, . . . in principle, from a contract to deliver an
equal weight of bullion of equal fineness;" but, notwithstanding this, it is a contract to pay money, and none the less so
because it designates for payment one of the two kinds of
money which the law has made a legal tender in discharge
of money obligations.
This judgment is for coined money, which at the time it was
rendered and now is worth more in the market as merchandise
than paper money; but our jurisdiction is to be determined by
the amount of money to be paid and not the kind. If, instead
of paper dollars and gold dollars legalized as money, the law
had provided for silver dollars and gold dollars, and this judgment had been for payment in gold, we think it would hardly
be contended that this court could take jurisdiction, because
when the judgment was rendered gold happened to be worth
more in the market as merchandise than silver; but, in principle, that case would not be different from this. Notwithstanding, therefore, the judgment is for coined money, we are satisfied that we have no jurisdiction.
Writ of error dismissed.

R mtoAD CoMPANY v. HOUSTON.
1. The neglect of the engineer of a locomotive of a railroad train to sound its
whistle or ring its bell on nearing a street-crossing does not relieve a traveller on the street from the necessity of taking ordinary precautions for his
safety. Before attempting to cross the railroad track, he is bound to use
his senses, - to listen and to look, - in order to avoid any possible accident
from an approaching train. If he omits to use them, and walks thoughtlessly upon the track, or if, using them, he sees the train coming, and, instead of waiting for it to pass, undertakes to cross the track, and in either
case receives any injury, he so far contributes to it as to deprive him of
any right to complain. If one chooses in such a position to take risks, he
must suffer the consequences. They cannot be visited upon the railro.d
company.
2. To instruct upon assumed facts to which no evidence applies, is error.

EnRon to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Missouri.
This was an action against the Chicago, Rock Island, and

