UNITED STATES V. SMITH.

[Sup. Ot.

Examined in the light of these suggestions, it is clear that
the decree dismissing the libel is correct. Different conclusions, we are aware, have been reached by other judges; but it
must suffice to say, that we are not able to concur in the reasons given in support of those decisions.
Decree affirmed.

UNITED

STATES V.

SIITH.

The act of Congress approved June 7, 1872 (17 Stat. 262), does not apply to the
shipping of seamen upon vessels engaged only in and for voyages coastwise
between Atlantic ports of the United States.

CERTiFIcATE of division in opinion between the judges of
the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Massachusetts.
This is an information under the act of June 7, 1872, 17 Stat.
262, against the defendant Smith, for that he, not being a
shipping commissioner, did ship and engage one John Riley
as a seaman, to go on board a certain American vessel called
the "Proteus," and make a voyage from Boston, in Massachusetts, to Philadelphia, in Pennsylvania, said Smith not
then and there being the owner, consignee, or master of said
vessel.
The defendant demurred; and the judges were opposed in
opinion on the following question: Whether said act applies to
the shipping of seamen upon vessels engaged only in and for
voyages coastwise between Atlantic ports of the United States,
as was the vessel described in the information.

The Solicitor-Ceneralfor the United States.
No opposing counsel.
MR. JUSTICE CLIFFoRD delivered the opinion of the court.

Shipping commissioners are vested with certain powers and
are charged with the performance of certain duties in engaging
seamen for the merchant service; and the act of Congress providing for their appointment forbids other persons, in certain
cases, from performing the duties with which such commissioners are charged by the provisions of that act.

Oct. 1877.]

UNITED STATES V. SMITH.

Penalties are enacted for the violation of such prohibitions;
and the information in this case charges that the defendant, on
the 5th of September, 1872, not being a shipping commissioner,
at Boston, in the district of Massachusetts, did then and there
ship and engage one John Riley as a seaman, to go on board a
certain vessel, and make a voyage from Boston to Philadelphia,
the defendant not being then and there the owner, consignee,
or master of the vessel, contrary to the statute in such case
made and provided.
Service was made; and the defendant appeared and demurred
to the information, and assigned for cause that the lib4 does
not set forth any acts to impeach him touching or concerning the matters whereof he is accused. Joinder in due form
was filed by the district attorney, and the parties were duly
heard.
By the record it appears that the question, whether the act
providing for the appointment of shipping commissioners applies to the shipping of seamen upon vessels engaged only in
and for voyages coastwise between the Atlantic ports, was
raised and argued by counsel, and that the judges being opposed in opinion, the question in difference, together with the
pleadings in the case, was certified to this court pursuant to
the act of Congress.
Discussion of the question whether a vessel engaged in a
coastwise voyage from one Atlantic port to another on our
coast falls within the operation of the body of sect. 12 of the
act providing for the appointment of shipping commissioners
is wholly unnecessary, as the court has just affirmed the negative of that proposition, and now refers to the reasons given in
the prior case in support of the decree in that case. Such
voyages are not mentioned in the body of the twelfth section;
and they are expressly excluded from the operation of that
part of the section by the second proviso annexed to the same,
which provides in effect that the same shall not apply to coastwise voyages nor to voyages of lake-going vessels that touch at
foreign ports. 17 Stat. 262.
Seamen, however, for such a voyage must be regularly shipped;
and the master, before he proceeds on the voyage, must make
with each seaman whom he carries to sea as one of the crew

UNITED

STATES V. SMIITH.

[Sup. Ct.

an agreement in writing or in print, in the manner and form
required by that act. Voyages of the kind not being within
the operation of the body of sect. 12, the agreement is not
required to be signed in the presence of such a commissioner.
Instead of that, the owner or consignee or the master of the
ship, so far as the ship is concerned, may himself in such a case
perform the duties of such a commissioner; but third persons
possess no such authority in any case.
Suppose that is so, still it is not charged in the information,
nor does it appear in any other way, that the defendant attempted to perform any' such duty. It is said that he engaged
the seamen; but it is not alleged that he attempted to perform
any act which a commissioner is required to perform in cases
falling within the operation of the body of sect. 12 of the act
prescribing the duties of such a commissioner, nor that he attempted to perform any duty which the proviso to the eighth
section allows to be performed in such a case by the owner or
consignee or by the master of the ship, where the voyage is one
excepted out of the operation of the body of sect. 12 in the
same act. All that is charged against the defendant is that he
engaged the seamen, which is an act that any one may lawfully
perform, provided the seaman is subsequently lawfully shipped
in the manner and form required in the act providing for the
appointment of shipping commissioners. Nothing being alleged
to the contrary, it must be presumed that the required agreement was duly executed if the seamen went to sea at all, which
is not alleged in the libel of information.
Tested by these considerations, it is clear that no legal offence
is properly charged against the defendant, from which it follows
that it must be certified to the court below that the act in question does not apply to coastwise voyages from one port to another on our Atlantic coast.

