Oct. 1877.]

UNITED STATES

UNITED STATES

v.

GILLIS.

v. Gmus.

1. The act entitled "An Act to prevent frauds upon the treasury of the United
States," approved Feb. 26, 1858 (10 Stat. 170), embraces every claim against
the government, however arising, of whatever nature, and wherever and
whenever presented.
2. So far from giving new potency to assignments of rights of action, and from
changing the rule of the common law touching such rights, that act denies
any effect to powers of attorney, orders, transfers, and assignments which
before were good in equity, and which a debtor, when they were brought
to his notice, was bound to regard.
3. The act of Feb. 24, 1855 (10 Stat. 612), establishing the Court of Claims, is not
an enabling act, nor does it expressly or by necessary implication repeal
any of the provisions of the act of Feb. 26, 1853, or make claims assignable
which, before its enactment, were incapable of assignment.
4. Congress has given a legislative construction of the act of 1853, by including
and re-enacting it in sect. 3477 of the Revised Statutes.
5. The court, therefore, upon consideration of the above statutes, hdds, 1. That
claims against the United States cannot be assigned, so as to enable the
assignee to bring suit in his own name in the Court of Claims. 2. That, in
cases arising under the act of March 3, 1863 (12 Stat. 820), the ownership
claimed and required to be proved is that which existed at the time when
the property in question was captured, and that the assignee of the claim
for the proceeds of such property is not entitled to sue for them in said
court.

APPrEAL from the Court of Claims.
This suit was brought June 11, 1867, in the court below, by
Thomas H. Gillis, in his own name, to recover the proceeds of
one hundred and eight bales of cotton seized under the Abandoned and Captured Property Act of March 12, 1863, as the
property of John H. Ryan, at Charleston, S. C., in March,
1865, by the military forces of the United States.
The Court of Claims found the following facts: 1. In March, 1865, one John H. Ryan, of Charleston, S. C.,
was the owner of one hundred and three bales of upland cotton
and five bales of sea-island cotton, which were during that month
seized at said Charleston by military officers of the United
States, turned over to the agents of the Treasury Department,
txansported to New York, and there sold, and the net proceeds
thereof covered into the United States treasury, amounting to
the sum of $130.33 per bale for the upland cotton, and $231.61
per bale for the sea-island cotton.

UNITED STATES v. GiLLis.

[Sup. Ct.

2. Some time in October or November, 1866, said Ryan transferred the legal title to his claim against the United States for
the proceeds of said cotton so covered into the treasury to
Thomas H. Gillis, of New York, and assented to the bringing
this action thereon in the name of said Gillis.
3. After the institution of this action, said Thomas H. died,
and Catherine I. Gillis was duly appointed administratrix of
his estate by the Surrogate Court of the county and State of
New York, on the sixteenth day of July, 1868, and has since
been admitted by the court to prosecute this suit as such administratrix.
4. The transfer of the claim, as set forth in the second finding, was made through one Van Ness, at New York, under a
power of attorney from said Ryan, and contract, the full terms
of which have not been proved. But it appears that said Ryan
(since deceased) assented to and affirmed said transfer. Subsequently a controversy arose between the present claimant and
the administrator of said Ryan as to an equitable interest
set up by said administrator in some portion of the money
which might be recovered. Since this action was instituted, a
compromise has been made between said claimant and said
Ryan's administrator, by which it is agreed that a certain part
(but how much it does not appear) of the amount recovered
shall be paid over to said administrator by the claimant's attorneys of record.
The court thereupon found as a conclusion of law that the
claimant was entitled to recover $13,423.99, as the proceeds of
one hundred and three bales of upland cotton, and $1,158.05,
as the proceeds of five bales of sea-island cotton, in all, the
sum of $14,582.04, and rendered judgment accordingly. The
United States brought the case here.
Mr. Assistant Attorney-GeneraZ Smith for the appellant.
The Court of Claims possesses no equity powers, and cannot
pass upon equitable claims. Alire's Case, 6 Ct. of C1. 575;
Harvey's Case, 8 id. 512. If it could, an assignee of an unliquir
dated claim against the United States would have no standing
in that court, as the act of Feb. 26, 1853, 10 Stat. 170, renders void the assignment of such a claim. Sine's Case, 1 Ct.
of Cl. 12; Cooyer's Case, id. 87; Pierce's Case, id. 288; Cote's

Oct. 1877.]

UNITED

STATES

v. GILLIS.

Case, 3 id. 65; Adam's Case, id. 332; Stowe's Case, 5 id. 371
Atocha's Case, 6 id. 69; Becker v. Sweetzer, 15 Minn. 427.
Such a claim was not assignable at common law; and this
court, in United States v. Bobeson, 9 Pet. 319, held that there
was no act of Congress establishing a different rule.
A claim to personal property, or to its proceeds, in the adverse possession of another, cannot be sold so as to invest the
purchaser with a right of action in his own name. Gardner v
Adams, 12 Wend. (N. Y.) 297; Stogdell v. Fugate, 2 A. K
Mar. (Ky.) 61 ; Young v. Ferguson, 1 Litt. (Ky.) 298; Com. v.
Fuqua, 3 id. 41; Brown v. Lipscomb, 9 Port. (Ala.) 472 ;
Goodwyn v. Lloyd, 8 id. 237; McGoon v. Aukeny, 11 Ill.
558; -Davisv. Hferndon, 39 Miss. 484.
Nor has an assignment of a part of a claim ever been recognized as operative to give such a right. 14Iandeville v. Welch,
5 Wheat. 277 ; Bobbins v. Bacon; 3 Me. 346; Gibson v. Cooke,
20 Pick. (Mass.) 5; Fairgrieves v. Lehigh NYavigation Co.,
2 Phil. (Pa.) 182; Boyd v. Bumsey, 2 Mar. J. J. (Ky.) 42;
White v. Buck, 7 B. Mon. (Ky.) 547 ; Baines v. United States,
11 Ct. of C1. 648.
The prohibition in the act of 1853 against the assignment of
claims was not repealed, so far as the Court of Claims is concerned, by the act of Feb. 24, 1855, 10 Stat. 612, nor by that
of March 3, 1833, 12 id. 820, giving it jurisdiction over such a
claim as this case involves.
Congress expressly re-enacted the act of 1853 by sect. 3477
Rev. Stat. The Revised Statutes are entitled "An Act to revise and consolidate the statutes of the United States in force
on the first day of December, AD. 1873," and do not purport
to embrace any new legislation. The act having been thus
regarded as in force at that date, this court will not declare that
it was repealed by implication. Dwarris on Stat. 154; Jfood
v. Ujnited States, 16 Pet. 362; X1c Coal v. Smith, 1 Black, 470;
Beals v. Hale, 4 How. 53; Prattv. Atlantic & St. Lawrence
Bailroad Co., 42 Me. 587; Ingalls v. Cole, 47 id. 540; Bowen
v. Lease, 5 Hill (N. Y.), 225; Wallace v. Bassett, 41 Barb.
(N. Y.) 96; Bank v. Commonwealth, 10 Pa. St. 448; AttorneyGeneral v. Brown, 1 Wis. 525 ; Lee v. Porman, 3 Metc. (Ky.)
116.

UNITED STATES V. GILLIS.

[Sup. Ct.

But even if the act of 1853 is not in force, the judgment
must be reversed. The act of March 3, 1863, supra, limits a
recovery to the owner of the property, at the time of its
abandonment or capture. The privilege of invoking the jurisdiction of the court below, in cases for which that act provides, is a personal one, and attaches upon the concurrence
of the loyalty of the claimant, his former ownership of the
property, and his present right to the proceeds. Carroll v.
United States, 13 Wall. 151; -Haycraft v. United States, 22
id. 81.
Mr. ifalbert E. Paine and Mr. Benjamin F. Grafton, contra.
The rule of construction applicable to this case was laid down
in United States v. Palmer, 3 Wheat. 610. The act of 1853
was designed only to meet the necessities of the Treasury
Department. If its first section could have been construed to
apply to cases in the Court of Claims, when it was subsequently
organized, the acts establishing and regulating that court are so
repugnant to that section, that they would have worked its repeal as to such cases. They entirely satisfy the rule in Wood v.
United States, 16 Pet. 342, that there must be a positive repugnancy between the provisions of the new and those of the old
statute, and even then the latter is repealed only pro tanto, to
the extent of the repugnancy; and they unmistakably recognize that claims of which that court has jurisdiction may be
assigned. 10 Stat. 612, sect. 1 ; 12 id. 767, sect. 12; 15 id. 75,
79, sects. 4, 8.
The cases are in harmony with this view. Lawrence v.
United States, 8 Ct. of Cl. 254; Cavender v. United States, id.
285; The Floyd Acceptances, 7 Wall. 666; United States v.
Anderson, 9 id. 67; United States v. Burns, 12 id. 253.
The question whether an assignee of a chose in action can
sue in his own name does not, however, arise. The legal
effect of the transfer was to pass the title to the property, or its
proceeds held by the United States as trustees.
The United States insists that Congress used the word
"owner" in the act of 1863 as designating the original owner,
but not his assignee. The scope, intent, and reason of the
act justify the construction that executors, administrators, or
assignees, as well as owners, are embraced by its provisions.

Oct. 1877.]

UNITED

STATES v. GILLIS.

The entire legal title to the whole of the property having
been transferred (and it only can be set up in the Court of
Claims), we submit that the findings of fact conclusively establish the right of the defendant in error to recover.
AIR. JUSTICE STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff seeks to recover in this action the proceeds of
the sale of one hundred and eight bales of cotton, which, in
March, 1865, were the property of John H. Ryan, of Charleston, S. C. During that month the cotton was there taken by
the military officers of the United States, as directed by the
Captured and Abandoned Property Act, transported to New
York and sold, and the net proceeds of the sale have been
covered into the treasury. The plaintiff, as administratrix of
Thomas H. Gillis, now asserts a right to recover the proceeds
by virtue of an alleged assignment of the claim made by Ryan,
the former owner of the cotton, to her intestate.
It is obvious that, if no such assignment was made, or if,
when made, it was inoperative to transmit the legal right to
the claim, the suit cannot be maintained in the name of the
plaintiff. Then there is no privity between her and the United
States, and she is not the " owner," who alone is permitted to
sue in the Court of Claims. That court found as facts that
some time in October or November, 1866, Ryan transferred
the legal title to his claim against the United States for the
proceeds of the cotton to the plaintiff's intestate, and assented
to the bringing this action thereon in the name of Gillis. The
transfer was made through one Van Ness, under a power of
attorney from Ryan, and a contract, the full terms of which
have not been proved, though the transfer was subsequently
assented to and confirmed by Ryan. Subsequently a controversy arose between the present claimant and the administrator
of Ryan, who had deceased, respecting an equitable interest
claimed by said administrator in some portion of the money
which might be recovered, and since the present action was
brought a compromise has been made by which it is agreed
that a part of the amount recovered shall be paid to the said
administrator by the claimant's attorneys of record. Such, in
substance, are the findings, so far as they relate to the transfer

UNITED STATES V. GILLIS.

[Sup. Ct.

of the claim by Ryan to the claimant's intestate. What the
Court of Claims intended by finding that the legal title to the
claim for the proceeds of the cotton was transferred to Gillis
is not clear. And how that could be found, when the alleged
transfer was under a power of attorney and contract, the full
terms of which,-the court finds, had not been fully proved, it
is equally hard to understand. It seems probable all that the
finding means is that Ryan's power of attorney and contract
sought to empower Gillis to bring suit in the latter's name for
the recovery from the United States of the net proceeds of sale
of the cotton then in the treasury, and to retain the whole or a
part of what might be recovered. However this may be, a
transfer of the claim, sufficient to vest in the transferee the
legal ownership thereof and give him a standing in the Court
of Claims, was impossible, unless aided by some statute. At
best, the claim, before its attempted transfer, was a mere right
in action and a demand for an unliquidated sum of money.
This is true whether the avails of the cotton sold are to be
regarded as money had and received for the use of Ryan, or as
held in trust for him, or promised to him by the provisions of the
Captured and Abandoned Property Act. But choses in action,
which are not commercial instruments, though assignable in
equity in some cases, are not generally assignable at common
law. And certainly the holder of a mere equitable right can
have no standing as a plaintiff in the Court of Claims. Apart
from the fact that there is no privity between the United
States and an equitable holder of a claim against the government, obtained by him through an assignment, the Court of
Claims is without power to adjudicate upon merely equitable
rights. Bonner v. United States, 9 Wall. 156.
If, therefore, Ryan's assignment to Gillis operated as a transfer of the legal ownership of his claim against the United
States, so as to enable the assignee to sue in his own right in
the Court of Claims, it must be because there is some statute
that has changed the rule of the common law, and given to an
assignment the effect which, prior to the statute, it did not
have. In United States v. Robeson, 9 Pet. 319, decided in
1835, it was said by this court: "There is no law of Congress
which authorizes the assignment of claims against the United

Oct. 1877.]

UNITED STATES V. GILLIS.

States, and it is presumed, if such an assignment is sanctioned
by the Treasury Department, it is only viewed as an authority
to receive the money, and not as vesting in the assignee a legal
right. But whatever may be the usage of the Treasury Department on this subject, it is clear that such an assignment, as
between individuals, on common-law principles, cannot be
regarded as transferring to the assignee a right to bring an
action at law on the account in his own name, or to plead it by
way of set-off to an action brought against him, either by an
individual or the government." No act of Congress since 1835
has given negotiability to claims against the government, or
given new effect to attempted transfers. On the contrary, an
act, approved Feb. 26, 1853, entitled "An Act to prevent
frauds upon the treasury of the United States," 10 Stat. 170,
sect. 1, enacted " that all transfers and assignments" thereafter
"made of any claim upon the United States, or any part or
share thereof, or interest therein, whether absolute or conditional, and whatever may be the consideration therefor, and all
powers of attorney, orders, or other authorities for receiving
payment of any such claim, or any part or share thereof, shall
be absolutely null and void, unless the same shall be freely
made and executed in the presence of at least two attesting
witnesses, after the allowance of such claim, the ascertainment
of the amount due, and the issuing of a warrant for the payment thereof." The seventh section enacts that "the provisions of this act," as also those of the prior act of July 29, 1846,
entitled "1An Act in relation to the payment of claims," "shall
apply and extend to all claims against the United States,
whether allowed by special acts of Congress or arising under
general laws or treaties, or in any other manner whatever."
No language could be broader or more emphatic than these
enactments.
The words embrace every claim against the
United States, however arising, of whatever nature it may be,
and wherever and whenever presented.
So far are they from giving new potency to assignments and
transfers of rights in action, so far from changing the commonlaw rule that such rights are not assignable, the statute strikes
down and denies any effect to powers of attorney, orders, transfers, and assignments which before were good in equity, and

WH'ITED STATES v. GILLIS.

[Sup. Ot.

which a debtor was bound to regard when brought to his
notice.
It has been argued on behalf of the claimant in this case
that this act, the act of 1853, is applicable only to claims
asserted before the Treasury Department. This is inferred
from the title of the act, and from the fact that at the time
when it was passed there was no Court of Claims in existence,
and claims were settled in the Treasury Department, without
opportunity to cross-examine witnesses. The frauds made possible by this mode of settlement, it is said, Congress had solely
in view. But it is an unwarrantable assumption to assert that
Congress had in mind only claims presented to the Treasury
Department. When the act was passed, many claims were presented to Congress, and a vast number were set up by way of
defalcation, in suits brought by the government, where there
was a full opportunity to cross-examine the witnesses called in
their support. That Congress had all such claims in view, and
intended to prevent their assignment, and debar any assignee
from setting them up, is, we think, altogether probable. If it
be said the danger the act sought to provide a guard against
was that fraudulent assignments of just claims might be imposed upon the accounting officers, so that the government,
after one payment to a pretended assignee, might find itself
confronted by the real creditor and be called upon to pay
again, the answer is that the same danger would attend the
payment or allowance to an assignee, after a trial in court, or
after a private act passed by Congress. We discover nothing
in reason, nothing in the mischief the act was plainly intended to remedy, and nothing in the language employed
tending to warrant the admission of any exceptions from the
comprehensive provisions made; nothing that can justify our
holding that, when Congress said all transfers or assignments,
partial or entire, absolute or conditional, of claims against
the United States shall be null and void, they meant they
should be in operation only when presented to the accounting
officers of the treasury, but effective when presented everywhere else. Such was not the construction given to the act
by the Supreme Court of Minnesota in the case of Becker v.
.Sweetzer, 15 Minn. 427, where the validity of an assignment

Oct. 1877.]

UNITED

STATES v. GILLIS.

of such a claim came in question. And we are not informed
that any court held such to be the meaning of the act, until
the Court of Claims, in 1872, adopted it. Lawrence'8 Case
and Cavender's Case, 8 Ct. of Cl. 252 and 281. Even in that
court its earlier decisions were different. In Sine's Case,
1 id. 12, in Cooper's Case, id. 87, and in the Cote Case, 3
id. 64-71, it was decided that all transfers and assignments
of claims against the United States were made void by the
statute,- not only when the assignees set up the claims in
the Treasury Department, but also when they attempted to
sue in the Court of Claims, and very convincing reasons
were givn for the decision.
It was said with great force,
"The act operates directly on the claims themselves, and
not as limitations on or definitions of the powers of those who
are to adjust them or adjudicate upon them." And it might
have been added, the act makes no reference to the accounting
officers. The departure from this ruling made in the two cases
reported in the eighth volume of Court of Claims reports seems
to have been made with a view to reconcile, if possible, the
enactment with some expressions made in the subsequent act
of 1855 establishing the Court of Claims. But the latter is
not an enabling act. It gives to the court jurisdiction of all
claims of a specified description, and only incidentally speaks
of assignments. It requires the petition to set out all assignments of the claim, or any part thereof. It requires the record
to show the allegiance of the claimant, and the original and
every prior owner thereof, where the claim has been assigned.
It must be admitted the act contemplates the possibility of an
effective assignment of some claims. What those are, it is not
necessary now to determine. Even the act of 1853 excepted
from its sweeping provisions certain claims, which were liquidated, and for which warrants are drawn. It is enough, however, that a later statute, not declaratory in its character,
cannot be relied upon for the purpose of giving a construction
to a former act plain in its terms. Ingalls v. Cole, 47 Me. 530.
That the act creating the Court of Claims did not work a
repeal of any provisions of the act of 1853, nor itself make
claims assignable that were incapable of assignment before its
enactment, is beyond reasonable doubt. It certainly contains

UNITED STATES v.

GILLIS.

[Sup. Ot.

no words expressly repealing any former statute, either in
whole or in part. And there is no necessary implication of
intentional repeal. Implied repeals are not favored. 2 Dwarris on Statutes, 638, 678. The rule is that an ancient statute
will be impliedly repealed by a later one only when the later
is couched in negative terms, or when the matter is so clearly
repugnant that it necessarily implies a negative. Where both
acts are affirmative, and the substance such that both may
stand together, both are held to be in force. Foster's Case, 11
Rep. 57. Now, the act of 1855 does not declare that any claim
against the United States shall be assignable. At most, it suggests that claims which are assignable may be sued in the
Court of Claims in the name of the assignee, without undertaking to declare what claims may be assigned. That there
may be such claims is clearly stated in the act of 1853, and
there are devolutions of title by force of law, without any act
of parties, or involuntary assignments, compelled bylaw, which
may have been in view. There is, therefore, no necessary inconsistency between the two acts. Besides, they relate to
different subjects, and it may be doubted whether a statute
relating to one subject can be construed to repeal by implication a prior statute relating entirely to another subject.
We think, therefore, the act of 1853 is of universal application, and covers all claims against the United States in every
tribunal in which they may be asserted. And such, we think,
was the understanding of Congress when the Revised Statutes
were enacted. In the revision, the act of 1853 was included
and re-enacted. Sect. 3477. In 1873 and 1874, therefore, it
was not thought that the act establishing the Court of Claims
had repealed any of the provisions of the act of 1853; for, if it
had been, the repealed parts would not have been included in
the revision. The Revised Statutes were passed June 22, 1874.
The decisions of the Court of Claims, that the act of 1853 did
apply to claims made in that court, had been made years
before, and reported, and they may be presumed to have been
The later decisions in
within the knowledge of Congress.
-Lazwrence's Case and Cavender's Case were not reported until
1874, and were probably not known, or not as well known.
By re-enacting the statute of 1853, without change, it is a

Oct. 1877.]

UNITED STATES v. GILLIS.

reasonable presumption Congress intended what it was known
the court had adopted as its true construction.
If we are right in the opinion we have expressed, that claims
against the United States cannot be assigned so as to enable
the assignee to bring suit in his own name in the Court of
Claims, it is enough for the present case. But there is another
reason why claims for the proceeds of captured and abandoned
property cannot be assigned so as to give the assignee a standing in that court. It is found in the act giving the court jurisdiction of such claims. Not every person is permitted to sue
for such proceeds. The act declares that "any person claiming to have been the owner of any such abandoned or captured
property may, at any time within two years after the suppression of the rebellion, prefer his claim to the proceeds thereof
in the Court of Claims, and on proof to the satisfaction of the
court of his ownership of said property, &c., receive the residue
of such proceeds. It is thus plain that only he who can claim
as an owner of the property captured or abandoned, and who
can prove such ownership, is permitted to sue and recover.
The assignee of a claim for the proceeds is not such an owner
of the property captured. That the ownership claimed and
required to be proved is that which existed at the time of
the capture, is quite plain. Carroll v. United States, 13 Wall.
151. The owner of that into which the property has been
converted is not necessarily the one who was the owner of the
property itself. It is thus evident that Congress did not intend
to give any assignee of the proceeds a right to sue for them.
And there were very substantial reasons for withholding such
a privilege.
Judgment reversed, and the record remitted with instructions to
dismiss the claimant's petition.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the following opinion, in
which M . JUSTICE FIELD concurred.

I dissent from so much of the opinion in this case as holds
that an assignment of a claim against the United States could
not transfer the legal title thereto without the aid of some
statute. I know of nothing in the Constitution or laws of the
United States which adopts the common-law rule on this subvoL. v.

27

TURNBULL V. PAYSON.

[Sup. Or.

ject. There is no such rule in the civil law, nor in the laws of
many of the States. So far as the opinion places the judgment
upon the statute of 1853, which prohibits the assignment of
claims against the United States, I concur in it.

TURNBULL v. PAYSON.
1. The court again decides that, where a corporation is adjudged a bankrupt, the
proper District Court of the United States, in order to provide means for

the payment of the debts of the corporation, may direct an assessment upon
the unpaid balance due on stock held by the several stockholders.
2. A person is presumed to be the owner of stock when his name appears on
the books of a company as a stockholder; and, when he is sued as such, the
burden of disproving that presumption is cast upon him.
8. The record of a district court of the United States is not within the act of
Congress approved May 29, 1790 (1 Stat. 122), prescribing the mode in
which the records and judicial proceedings of the State courts shall be authenticated, but is, when duly certified by the clerk under its seal, admissible as evidence in every other court of the United States.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Maryland.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Hr. -Edward Otis Hinckley for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. . 1K. Tenney, contra.
MR. JUSTICE CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Stockholders in the bankrupt company were made liable by
the act of incorporation "in all cases of losses exceeding the
means of the corporation," each to the amount of the stock
which he held; and the record shows that the defendant, at the
time of the alleged loss, held fifty shares of the stock, eighty
per cent of which was unpaid.
Sufficient also appears to show that the insurance company,
on the 9th of October, 1871, met with losses by fire which
exhausted all their funds and effects; and that the corporation,
on the 14th of November of the next year, was duly adjudged
bankrupt by the District Court for the Northern District of
Illinois, the insurance company having its principal place of
business at Chicago, in that district.

