RAILROAD

Co. v.

DURANT.

[Sup. Ct.

sion." And again, as is also said by the same judge, "It is
proper and usual that the goods which are not stamped should
be forfeited, and it is so provided in respect to cigars and
tobacco, by sects. 70 and 90 ; but there is no provision for forfeiting unstamped spirits, unless it be the one in question."
The rules and regulation which the Commissioner of Internal Revenue is authorized by sect. 2 to prescribe cannot have
the effect of bringing the case under the operation of the penalty provided in sect. 96, if it was already covered by sect. 57.
The regulations of the department cannot have the effect of
amending the law. They may aid in carrying the law as it
exists into execution, but they cannot change its positive provisions.
Decree affirmed.

RA,RoAD CompAxy

v. DURANT.

I. Where a conveyance of real estate is made to the grantee, as "trustee," without setting forth for whom or for what purpose he is trustee, parol evidence
is admissible to establish the fact.
2. A trustee cannot claim adversely to those for whom he acquired and holds the
property.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Nebraska.
This was a bill in equity by the Union Pacific Railroad
Company against Thomas C. Durant, to compel his conveyance
to the company of certain lots and lands.
The case made by the complainant, in its bill, is substantially
this: That in the month of November, 1863, the Union Pacific
Railroad Company, having commenced surveys at or in the
vicinity of Omaha, for the purpose of ascertaining the best
point for the location of the eastern terminus of its road, and
the most practicable route thence westward, certain citizens of
Omaha proposed to the engineer in charge of said surveys to
convey to the defendant, the then vice-president and principal
managing officer and agent of the company, for its use, certain
tracts of lands and certain lots therein described, "said conveyances to be made conditional upon the location of the said eastern
terminus within one and a quarter miles of Farnham Street,

Oct. IS77.]

RAILROAD

Co. v.

DURANT.

thence running west from said point towards the Platte Valley;"
that such proposal was accepted, and the conditions performed,
and that the several parties, being satisfied therewith, made
conveyances according to their agreement, but by the express
direction of the defendant his name was inserted therein as
grantee and trustee; thatthe said conveyances recited that
they were made "in consideration of the location of the eastern
terminus of the Union Pacific Railroad at Omaha, within one
and , quarter miles of Farnham Street, thence running west
from said point to the Platte Valley;" that it was the intention of the donors to convey, and that the defendant took the
lands and lots in trust for the company, it having furnished the
consideration therefor, and still so holds the same, but has refused, upon request, to convey to the company. The bill prays
for a decree to compel him to execute the trust and convey
them to the complainant.
The substance of the answer is that the company did not
fix the location of the eastern terminus or the westward route
of the road, but that the surveys therefor were made at the
defendant's individual expense, and under Jais management
and direction; that the proposed donation was intended to be
made to him individually, in order to secure his influence with
the president and the company in establishing said terminus
and route; that the word "trustee" was inserted in said deeds
solely at his own instance, to declare a trust in favor of the
grantors, in case of a non-performance of the conditions of the
agreement; that he has conveyed to the corporation a portion
of the lands necessary to its use, but that the residue he still
holds; that the sole consideration of said conveyances was the
location of the eastern terminus within one mile and a quarter
of Farnham Street, and the approval of the route westward by
the president, in whom alone was vested the power to locate
the said terminus or the said route; that the condition of the
contract never was complied with, and that therefore there has
been a reversion of the lots and lands to the grantors, for
whom he holds, and who should be made parties to the
action.
Upon the final hearing the court dismissed the bill, on the
ground, as to most of the property in controversy, that the proVOL v.

37

RAILROAD

Co. v.

DURANT.

[Sup. CL.

posal pursuant to which the conveyances were subsequently
executed to the defendant as trustee was secured by an illegal
and oppressive exercise of his power as the acting president
and active manager of the company, and that he held the property as trustee for the donors, except as to certain tracts, which,
it was admitted, he had received as trustee for the company.
From the decree dismissing the bill this appeal was taken.
Mr. Andrew J. Poppleton for the appellant.
Hr. James H. Woolworth, contra.
MR. JUSTICE SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.

There are no questions of law or fact of any difficulty in this
case. A brief opinion will be sufficient to dispose of it.
An examination of the record has satisfied us that the consideration for the conveyances to the appellee proceeded wholly
from the appellant; that the appellee took the titles in trust;
that he was a trustee ; that the appellant was the cestui que trust;
and that the appellee has stood in that relation ever since the
conveyances were executed to him, and that he still holds the
premises in that papacity. This is the whole case. The claim
of the appellee that he took the titles in trust for the grantors
is absurd upon its face, and contradicted by the proofs. If the
grantors intended to deny the right of the company to demand
the performance of the contract, why did they convey at all?
Potior est conditio defendentis. Wny interpose a trustee? and
especially why recite in the deeds that the condition of the subscriptions had been fulfilled?
These suggestions set in a strong light the character of this
pretence.
But it is said the conveyances grew out of an illegal transaction between the company and the grantors. To this there
are several answers. The grantors have voluntarily 6xecuted
the contract. They have not intervened, and do not complain.
The conveyances to the trustee were, in the view of the law,
the same thing as.if they had been to the company. The transaction between the parties in interest was thus finally closed. There
will be neither more nor less of illegality between the original
parties, whether the trustee does or does not respond to his
obligation to the company. In that obligation there is no pre-

Oct. 1877.]

RAILROAD Co. v. DURANT.

tence for saying there is any taint of any kind; and it is that
obligation alone which it is sought to enforce by this proceeding. All the deeds but one designate the appellee as "t r u stee,"
without setting forth for whom or for what purpose. Parol
evidence was admissible to show these things. The designation alone was sufficient to devolve the duty of inquiry upon
any third person dealing with the property. Duncan v. Jaudon,
15 Wall. 165; Shaw v. Spencer and Others, 100 AMass. 321;
Sharp v. Taylor, 2 Ph. 801; 1te1Blair v. Gibbs, 17 How. 232;
Brooks v. Martin, 2 Wall. 70. The appellee cannot claim adversely to those for whom he acquired and holds the property.
The rights of others, if such rights exist, do not concern him.
He cannot vicariously assert them.
The office of a trustee is important to the community at
large, and frequently most so to those least able to take care
of themselves. It is one of confidence. The law regards the
incumbent with jealous scrutiny, and frowns sternly at the
slightest attempt to pervert his powers and duties for his own
benefit. The tenant cannot deny the title of his landlord. A
multo fortiori ought not the trustee to be permitted to deny
that of his beneficiary.
The position assumed by the trustee in this case is not unlike
that of one who, having deprived the owner of the possession of
his property, when called to account civilly or criminally, should
insist that the owner's title was fatally tainted with fraud, and
that hence the offender had the right to "take and carry away,"
and keep and enjoy, the property himself with impunity.
The conduct of the appellee, stripped of the verbiage with
which it has been surrounded, and viewed in its nakedness,
strongly offends the moral sense of the judicial mind.The decree will be reversed, and the cause remanded with
diret tions to enter a decree in favor of the complainant; and
So ordered.
it is

