BROWN V. SPOFFORD.

[Sup. Ct.

beyond the necessity for its exercise; and under color of it
objects not within its scope cannot be secured at the expense
of the protection affoi'ded by the Federal Constitution. And
as its range sometimes comes very near to the field committed
by the Constitution to Congress, it is the duty of the courts to
guard vigilantly against any needless intrusion.
Judgment reversed, and the record remanded with instructions
to reverse the judgment of the Circuit Court of Grundy
Gounty, and to direct that court to award a new trial.

B:RowN v. SPOFFORD.
i. Where, at the time of making and indorsing a promissory note, a written
contract in relation thereto is entered into by the parties, parol testimony
varying or contradicting its terms is not admissible.
2. The court reaffirms the doctrine that a bona fide purchaser for value before
maturity of a negotiable instrument, is not, unless they are brought to his
notice, affected by any equities between the original parties.
3. A party who seeks to avail himself of the conditions of a compromise binding
him to the performance of certain acts, in order to discharge the original
demand, must first show performance on his part.
4. The court condemns as irregular, proceedings whereby the defendant in two
separate suits, in the former of which judgment had been rendered before
the latter had gone to trial, was permitted to file bills of exception purporting to be applicable to each case, and, without consolidating them, remove
them to this court by one writ of error.

ERRoR to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
This action was brought by Spofford & Clark, against Samuel P. Brown and Austin P. Brown, on five promissory notes,
for $2,267.33 each, made by the defendants Jan. 8, 1872, by
their firm name of S. P. Brown & Son, and payable to the
order of Austin P. Brown in one, two, three, four, and five
months after date. The declaration alleged that the notes
were, on the date thereof, severally indorsed by the said Austin
P. Brown, and came before maturity, in due and regular course
of commercial dealing, and for a full, fair, and valuable consideration, into the possession and ownership of the plaintiffs, but
were protested for non-payment, whereof due notice was given
the indorser.

Oct. 1877.]

BROWN v.

SPOFFORD.

The defendants, in addition to the general issue, pleaded two
special pleas; but as the matters therein set forth could have
been offered under the general issue, they are omitted here.
On Aug. 2, 1872, the plaintiffs sued the defendants on another note of the same series as the preceding five, but which
was payable in six months after date.
The same defence was made as in the former suit.
At the trial, the plaintiffs having proved the signatures and
indorsements on the notes, and that the defendants composed
the firm of S. P. Brown & Son, rested.
The defendants then introduced evidence tending to show
that for several years lefore the making of the notes they had
had large dealings with the Philadelphia Coal Company, and
that a controversy arose as to the am6unt of their indebtedness
to the company; that on the said 8th of January, 1872, the
notes in suit were executed by them and delivered to Henry L.
Cake, president of said company, who thereupon delivered to
them a paper, of which the following is a copy: "WASMINGTON, D. C., Jan. 8, 1872.
"Received fiom S. P. Brown & Son the following notes, in full
settlement of their indebtedness to the Philadelphia Coal Company :-

One note dated Jan. 8, 1872, at one month
,, , two
,,
,,
,,
,,
,, three ,,
,,
,,
,,
,, four
,,
five
,,
six
,,
Amounting to

..........

.

.

. .
.
. .
.
.

$2,267.33
2,267.33
.
2,267.33
. 2,267.33
. 2,267.33
. 2,267.33
.

.

$13,603.98

"And in settlement of these notes I have agreed, upon behalf of
the Philadelphia Coal Company, to receive an order on Edwin
Stewart, paymaster of the United States Navy, and accepted by
him, for five thousand five hundred dollars ($5,500), with interest
from date, said order to be liquidated as follows: $2,000 at three
months from Dec. 20, 1871; $2,000 at four months fiom Dec. 20,
1871; and $1,500 at five months from Dec. 20, 1871,-the whole
amount, with interest, from Dec. 20, 1871 ; also, Z. Jones's indorsement on four notes, as follows: S. P. Brown & Son's notes to order

BROwN V. SPOFFORD.

[Sup. Ct

of Z. Jones, dated Jan. 8, 1872, for $1,250, respectively at six,
eight, ten, and twelve months, amounting to $5,000; this sum of
ten thousand five hundred dollars ($10,500) being in effect a compromise of the said indebtedness of $13,603.96, to be conclusive
upon the payments being made at the times stated.
"1And I further stipulate on behalf of the Philadelphia Coal Company, that, upon payment of the $5,500, with interest, by the paymaster within the time stated, the first, second, and third notes
given by S. P. Brown & Son for the sum of $2,267.33, amounting
to $6,801.99, shall be returned to S. P. Brown & Son as settled;
and, upon payment of the four notes at maturity indorsed by
Z. Jones, the remaining three notes of S. P. Brown & Son, amounting to $,6,801.99, shall be handed back to S. P. Brown & Son,
being settled in full by the payment of said four notes indorsed by
Z. Jones.
H. L.CAKE,
"President PhiladelphiaCoal Co.

"Witness: A. B. WoLF."
The defendants then offered testimony tending to prove that
the company, wheil it transferred the notes sued on to the plaintiffs, who acted as its agents in selling coal on commission, and
who also occasionally bought and sold on their own account,
received as the sole consideration therefor the promissory notes
of the latter for the same amount; that, at the time of said
transfer, Cake assured the plaintiffs that they should incur
no loss in respect to said transaction, but that he would indemnify and protect them; that, at the time of the execution
of said agreement between the defendants and Cake, it was
agreed that as the notes in suit should respectively mature
they should be paid and taken up by the company. The court
excluded this testimony, and the defendants excepted. They
thereupon asked the court to charge, that if the jury believed
that the plaintiffs came into possession of the notes sued on
without paying an actual valuable consideration, or by paying
only a nominal one, or under circumstances which would have
put a prudent man on inquiry concerning any agreement between the defendants and the Philadelphia Coal Company with
respect to said notes, then the jury must consider the plaintiffs
to be bound by such agreement. That, under the agreement
of Jan. 8. 1872, the Philadelphia Coal Company was bound,
among other things, to take up and hold the two notes sued on

Oct. 1877.]

BROWN V. SPOFFORD.

which first became due; and that if the jury found from the
evidence that the company did not do so, but allowed them to
go to protest, then the verdict should be for the defendants.
The court refused so to charge; but charged, that if the jury
found from the evidence that the notes in suit were made by
the defendants in liquidation of an antecedent indebtedness due
to the Philadelphia Coal Company, and were, before maturity,
indorsed for a valuable consideration by it to the plaintiffs, then
the plaintiffs are entitled to recover from the defendants the full
amount of said notes, and that any agreement between the company and the defendants in relation to said notes would not affect the rights of the plaintiffs, unless they, before the purchase
of said notes, had actual notice of said agreement; that if the
plaintiffs had actual notice before said purchase that the company
had made the agreement of compromise, and that said agreement
was not carried out by the defendants in the manner agreed
upon, then the plaintiffs might recover on the original notes,
and that so far as that question was involved the plaintiffs were
entitled to a verdict; that the agreement to receive $10,500 as
a compromise in discharge of the notes could be made available
to the defendants only by proving that the sums were paid as
therein stipulated, or tendered by the defendants, or by one of
them; that if the defendants had failed to show that the compromise was accepted by them by payment of the stipulated
sums, their original indebtedness on the notes remained, and
the plaintiffs were entitled to recover; that if the notes were
indorsed and delivered to plaintiffs before maturity, and in the
course of business, they were entitled to recover, and were not
affected by any transactions between the original parties of
which they had no notice when they received the paper.
The defendants excepted to the refusal of the court to charge
as requested, and also to the charge as given.
There was a verdict in each case in favor of the plaintiffs;
and the judgments thereon having been affirmed in general
term, the defendants sued dut this writ.
The assignment of errors is set forth in the opinion of the
court.
Mr. Arathaniel Wilson for the plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Joseph Casey, contra.

BROWN V. SPOFFORD.

[Sup. Ot.

MR. JUSTICE CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.

Promissory notes payable to order may be transferred by
indorsement, or when indorsed in blank or made payable to
bearer they are transferable by mere delivery, and the possession of such an instrument indorsed in blank or made payable
to bearer is prima facie evidence that the holder is the proper
owner and lawful possessor of the same; and nothing short of
fraud, not even gross negligence, if unattended with malafides,
is sufficient to overcome the effect of that evidence, or to invalidate the title of the holder, supported by that evidence.
Goodman v. Hfarvey, 4 Ad. & E. 70; Goodman v. Simonds,
20 How. 843; Collins v. Gilbert, 94 U. S. 753; Voxon v. DeVolf, 10 Gray (Mass.), 346; _Kagee v. Badger, 84 N. Y. 247.
Sufficient appears to show that the plaintiffs claim to recover
of the defendants the amount of five promissory notes, set forth
in the record, each dated Jan. 8, 1872, payable to the order of
Austin P. Brown in one, two, three, four, and five months
from date, amounting in the aggregate to the sum of $11,836.64.
Due indorsement of the notes was made by the payee, and the
plaintiffs also claim to recover the costs and fees of protest and
notice to the makers for non-payment.
Service was made; and the defendants appeared and pleaded
the general issue, and two special pleas, which are fully set
forth in the record.
Issue was joined by the plaintiffs upon the first plea of the
defendants; and to the second plea the plaintiffs replied, and
denied the same in fact and in substance, and all and singular
the matters therein set forth, and alleged in further reply that
they became the holders of the notes in the regular course of
mercantile dealings, for a full, fair, and valuable consideration,
before the maturity of the notes and without any notice or
knowledge of the matters set forth and alleged in the defendants' second plea. They also deny and traverse all the allegations and averments contained in the defendants' third plea.
Special pleas in such a case arh unnecessary, as every such
defence, where the action is assumpsit upon promissory notes,
is admissible under the general issue.
Delay ensued, and at a subsequent term the parties went
to trial, and the verdict and judgment were in favor of the

O(,t. 1877.]

BROWN v. SPOFFORD.

plaintiffs, in the sum of $11,800.47, with costs and interest.
Exceptions were taken by the defendants, as appears by the
record.
Six notes, it seems, were given by the defendants, all of the
same date, one of which was not due when the suit was instituted to recover the amount of the first five. On the 2d of
August, 1872, the plaintiffs sued the other note, which was
signed and indorsed like the other five, and was for the sum of
$2.267.32 for value received. Service was made, and the defendants appeared and filed three pleas, of the same legal effect
as those filed in the preceding case. Replications were also
filed by the plaintiffs, of the same legal import as those which
they filed in the suit to enforce payment of the first five notes.
Proper issues being joined, the parties went to trial; and the
verdict and judgment were for the plaintiffs, in the sum of
$2,269.85, with costs and interest, as therein provided.
Separate judgments were rendered in the two cases; but the
defendants were allowed to file eight bills of exceptions to the
rulings of the court in each of the cases, which were subsequently signed and sealed by the presiding judge, each of the
bills of exceptions having respect to the trial in the respective
suits as if the same had been previously consolidated and the
verdicts had been rendered at the same time by the same jury.
Both judgments were removed into this court by one writ of
error.
Certain errors are assigned here as applicable to the judgment in each of the respective cases, in substance and effect
as follows: 1. Evidence was offered by the defendants to prove
the alleged agreement between them and the company, which
was excluded by the court, and they assign for error that the
court erred in excluding that evidence. 2. That the court
erred in holding that the agreement between the company and
the defendants offered in evidence would not affect the right of
the plaintiffs to recover in the suits. 3. That the court erred
in holding that if the plaintiffs received the notes before maturity, without notice of the alleged agreement, the defendants
were liable in the action, even though the plaintiffs paid their
own notes with money borrowed from the company, whose
agents they were in the transaction. 4. That the court erred

BROWN v. SPOFFORD.

[Sup. t

in instru(ting the jury that if they find from the evidence that
the plaintiffs did have notice of the alleged agreement between
the company and the defendants, still they may recover in the
actions if the jury further find that the defendants neglected
and failed to comply with the terms of the agieement.
5. That the court erred in instructing the jury that the agreement to receive as a compromise in discharge of the notes a
sum less than the amount of the same could only be made
available as a defence, by proving that the sum agreed was
paid or tendered by the defendants as therein stipulated.
Exceptions not assigned for error will not be separately examined. Two of the errors assigned, to wit, the first and the
second, are so nearly alike that they may be examined together.
Negotiable notes are written instruments, and as such they
cannot be contradicted, nor can their terms be varied by parol
evidence; and that proposition is universally true where the
promissory note is in the hands of an innocent holder. Where
a bill of exchange was drawn in the usual form, and was protested for non-payment, the court held twenty years ago that
-parol evidence of an understanding between the drawer and the
party in whose favor the bill was drawn was inadmissible to vary
the terms of the instrument. Brown v. Yley, 20 How. 442.
In that case, the defendant offered to prove to the jury, pursuant to the defence set up in a special plea, a parol agreement
between him and the plaintiffs, that the bill should not be presented for acceptance until funds were furnished and placed in
the hands of the drawees, to provide for a certain other draft,
who had agreed to accept the second bill when funds were
received to meet their liability for accepting the first bill; but
the court below excluded the evidence, and the defendant excepted; and this court decided that the ruling was correct, and
affirmed the judgment, holding that the evidence offered, that
the bill should not be presented until a distant, uncertain, or
undefined period, tended in a very material degree to alter
and vary the operation and effect of the instrument. Shankland v. Washington, 5 Pet. 394; 1 Greenl. Evid. (12th ed.)
818; Stacklpole v. Arnold, 11 Mass. 27; Hunt v. Adams, 7 id.
518; fyrick v. Dame, 9 Cush. (Mass.) 248; Thompson v.
Ketchum, 8 Johns. 192.

Oct. 1877.]

BROWN v. SPOFFORD.

Certain fixed principles govern the liability of parties to a
bill of exchange or promissory note which are essential to the
credit and circulation of such paper, of which the most important is that whatever may have occurred between other parties
to the instrument, if not fraudulent in its inception, the holder
of the same, if he acquired it for value in the usual course of
business before maturity, cannot be affected by any such transactions, unless it be first shown that he had knowledge of such
transactions at the time the transfer was made. Nothing less
than knowledge of such transactions can meet the exigencies
of such a defence, the rule being that the bona fide holder of a
negotiable instrument for value, if acquired before maturity
and without notice of any facts which impeach its validity
between the antecedent parties, has a good title to the instrument, unaffected by any such prior transaction, and may
recover the amount, even though the instrument, as between
the antecedent parties, is without any legal validity. Goodman
v. ,Simonds, 20 How. 843; Swift v. Tyson, 16 Pet. 1.
Attempt was made in a leading case to prove that the payee
agreed with the indorser that if he would indorse the note
he should incur no responsibility, as the payment was secured
by collaterals, and when offered in the Circuit Court the evidence was admitted; but the court, when the case was brought
here on writ of error, reversed the judgment, holding that
Banks v. Dunn,
the evidence should have been excluded.
6 Pet. 51.
Decided cases of the most authoritative character have determined that parol evidence of an oral agreement, alleged to
have been made at the time of the drawing, making, or indorsement of a bill or note, cannot be admitted to vary,
qualify, contradict, add to, or subtract from the absolute terms
of a written contract. Speeht v. Howard et al., 16 Wall. 564.
In the absence of fraud, accident, or mistake the rule is the
same in equity as at law, that parol evidence of an oral agreement alleged to have been made at the time of drawing, making, or indorsing a bill or note cannot be permitted to vary,
qualify, or contradict, or to add to or subtract from, the absolute terms of the written contract. Forsyth v. Kimball, 91
U. S. 291.
VOL. V.

81

482

BRowN v. SPoFFORD.

[Sup, Ct.

Parol evidence of an agreement, made contemporaneously
with a promissory note which contains an absolute promise to
pay at a specified time, is not admissible in order to extend the
time for payment, or to provide for the payment out of any
particular fund, or in any other way than that specified in the
instrument, or to make the payment depend upon condition.
Chitty, Contr. (10th ed.) 99; Abrey v. Crux, Law Rep. 5 C. P.
41; Allan v. Furbish,4 Gray, 514; 2 Pars. Bills and Notes,
501.
Apply these rules to the case before the court, and it is clear
that the first and second assignments of error must be overruled, as it is clear that the evidence offered was inadmissible,
and that the ruling of the court was correct.
Due execution of the notes is admitted, nor is it questioned
that they were indorsed in blank, as set up by the plaintiffs.
Beyond all doubt, the plaintiffs became the holders of the notes
before maturity and for value; but the defendants insist that
the plaintiffs did not become the holders of the same in good
faith, nor in the regular course of business; and they requested
the court to instruct the jury that if they believed that the
plaintiffs came into the possession of the notes without paying
value, or under circumstances which would have put a prudent
man upon inquiry concerning the alleged agreement, then the
jury must consider the plaintiffs bound by the agreement, and
that their verdict should be for the defendants.
Three objections arise to that prayer for instruction, any one
of which is sufficient to show that it was properly rejected: 1.
Because the uncontradicted evidence showed that the plaintiffs
did pay value for the notes. 2. Because the settled rule of law
is that the plaintiffs, as the holders of the notes for value, and
having acquired the same before maturity and in the usual
course of business, or without notice of any prior equities,
have a good title to the same irrespective of what may have
transpired between the defendants and prior holders of the
notes. 3. Because there is no evidence in the case that the
plaintiffs had knowledge of any equities between the defendants and such prior parties, the settled commercial rule being
that nothing less than prior knowledge of such facts and circumstances as impeach the title can meet the exigencies of

Oct. 1877.]

BROWN V. SPOFFORD.

such a defence, u:a1ass it be shown that the instrument or instruments were fraudulent in their inception.
Where the supposed defect or infirmity in the title of the
instrument appears on the face at the time of the transfer,
the question whether the party who took it had notice or not
is in general a question of construction, and must be determined by the court as matter of law, as has been held by this
court in several cases. Andrews v. Pond, 13 Pet. 65 ; Ff owler
v. Brantly, 14 id. 318. But it is a very different thing when
it is proposed to impeach the title of a holder for value by
proof of any facts and circumstances outside of the instrument
itself. He is then to be affected, if at all, by what has occurred
between other parties; and he may well claim an exemption
from any consequences flowing from their acts, unless it be first
shown that he had knowledge of such facts and circumstances
at the time the transfer was made. Goodman v. Simonds, 20
How. 343; Collins v. Gilbert, 94 U. S. 753.
Tested by these authorities, it follows that the third assignment of error must be overruled.
Both the fourth and the fifth assignments of error have
respect to the supposed compromise which it is alleged was
proposed and adopted; and, inasmuch as they relate to the same
state of facts, they will be examined together.
Parties may, doubtless, adjust their controversies; and, where
they do so in good faith and understandingly, courts of justice
will uphold the adjustment, unless it violates the rules of law
applicable to the transaction. Suppose that is so, still it is
clear the alleged compromise was never carried into effect.
What was proposed is that the notes were to be delivered up
upon the payment of a prescribed amount at the time and in
the manner set forth in the agreement; but nothing was ever
paid or tendered, nor was any thing ever done in fulfilment of
the agreement. Instead of that, the evidence shows that the
defendants never made any attempt to make the payments;
and the court instructed the jury, that, if they found that the,
agreement of compromise was never carried out by the defendants, it constitutes no defence to the action ; that such a compromise can only be made available to the defendants as a
defence by proving that the sums agreed to be paid in discharge

BROWN V. SPOFFORD.

[Sup. Ct.

were paid or tendered as stipulated. Formal exceptions were
taken to those instructions, and they are the basis of the errors
alleged in the fourth and fifth assignments.
Sufficient appears to show that the indebtedness of the defendants amounted to the sum of $13,603.96, and that the
plaintiffs agreed to accept $10,000 as a compromise, "upon the
payments being made at the times stated," from which it is
evident that nothing short of the fulfilment of that agreement
would discharge the original demand, and that such a compromise to be available must be performed. 2 Pars. Contr.
(6th ed.) 685; 2 Story, Contr. (5th ed.) 537; Chitty, Contr.
(10th ed.) 693.
Agreements unperformed cannot be pleaded as accord and
satisfaction. United States v. Clark, Hempst. 317.
Where a creditor agreed to satisfy a judgment for a less sum
than the amount recovered, if paid by a day certain, and the
debtor failed to make the payment, it was held that the creditor
might enforce the judgment for the full amount. -Earlyv.
.ogers, 16 How. 599.
Performance of the agreement by the judgment debtor, it
was held in that case, was a condition precedent to the proposed
reduction of the judgment; and the court said, we think the
district judge interpreted the agreement of the parties and
the judgment correctly, as the parties made the reduction
dependent on a condition which has not been fulfilled.
Where an arrangement was made for the discharge of certain
notes, but the arrangement failed because one of the debtors
disagreed to the terms of the composition, the court decided
that the debt stood revived, and that judgment was properly
rendered for the whole amount. Clark et al. v. Brown, 22 id.
270; Addison, Contr. (6th ed.) 996.
Two other exceptions were taken at the trial, in respect to
which it is only necessary to say that they have not been
assigned for error, and, if they bad been, it would not have benefited the defendant, as the questions presented fall within the
rules already sufficiently explained.
Nothing remains for remark except to advert very briefly to
certain irregularities which appear in the proceedings. Judgment was rendered in the first suit before the parties went to

Oct. 1877.]

HALL v. DECuIR.

trial in the second, and yet the defendants were allowed to file
eight bills )f exceptions, which purport to be applicable to each
of the two cases; and the judgment in each case is removed
here by one writ of error, though the transcript does not show
that the two cases were ever consolidated. Such proceedings
are palpably irregular; but inasmuch as they are not the subject of objection by either party, the court has decided to exer
cise jurisdiction and dispose of the controversy. Separate
judgments having been entered in the court of original jurisdiction; the judgment rendered here must be separately applied
Judgment affirmed
in the court below.

HALL v. DECuiB.
The Supreme Court of Louisiana having decided that an act of the General
Assembly, approved Feb. 23, 1869, entitled "An Act to enforce the thirteenth
article of the Constitution of this State, and to regulate the licenses mentioned
in said thirteenth article," requires those engaged in the transportation of passengers among the States to give all persons travelling within that State, upon
vessels employed in such business, equal rights and privileges in all parts of
the vessel, without distinction on account of race or color; and subjects to an
action for damages the owner of such a vessel who excludes colored passengers, on account of their color, from the cabin set apart by him for the use of
whites during the passage: this court, accepting as conclusive this construction of the act by the highest court of the State, holds that the act, so far as
it has such operation, is a regulation of inter-state commerce, and therefore,
to that extent, unconstitutional and void.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of Louisiana.
By the thirteenth article of the Constitution of Louisiana it
is provided that "all persons shall enjoy equal rights and privileges upon any conveyance of a public character." By an act
of the General Assembly, entitled " An Act to enforce the thirteenth article of the Constitution of this State, and to regulate
the licenses mentioned in said thirteenth article," approved
Feb. 23, 1869, it was enacted as follows: "SECTION 1. All persons engaged within this State, in the business
of common carriers of passengers, shall have the right to refuse to
admit any person to their railroad cars, street cars, steamboats, or
other water-crafts, stage-coaches, omnibuses, or other vehicles, or

