Oct. 1877.]

RAILROAD CO. V. HUSEN.

For the error in the charge of the court in that matter the
judgment will be reversed and a new trial awarded.
So ordered.
MAIR. JUSTICE CLIFFORD concurred in the judgment of the
court, but adhered to the views expressed in his dissenting
opinion in Gilman v. Philadelphia, 3 Wall. 732.

RAn;RoAD COmPAINY v. HusFm.
1. The statute of Missouri which prohibits driving or conveying any Texas,
Mexican, or Indian cattle into the State, between the first day of March
and the first day of November in each year, is in conflict with the clause
of the Constitution that ordains - Congress shall have power to regulate
commerce with foreign nations, and among the several States, and with the
Indian tribes."
2. Such a statute is more than a quarantine regulation, and not a legitimate
exercise of the police power of the State.
3. That power cannot be exercised over the inter-state transportation of subjects
of commerce.
4. While a State may enact sanitary laws, and, for the purpose of self-protection,
establish quarantine and reasonable inspection regulations, and prevent
persons and animals having contagious or infectious diseases from entering
the State, it cannot, beyond what is absolutely necessary for self-protection,
interfere with transportation into or through its territory.
5. Neither the unlimited powers of a State to tax, nor any of its large police
powers, can be exercised to such an extent as to work a practical assumption of the powers conferred by the Constitution upon Congress.
6. Since the range of a State's police power comes very near to the field committed by the Constitution to Congress, it is the duty of courts to guard vigilantly against any needless intrusion.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of Missouri.
An act of the legislature of Missouri, approved Jan. 23, 1872,
1 Wagner's Stat. 251, provides as follows:"SECTION 1. No Texas, Mexican, or Indian cattle shall be driven
or otherwise conveyed into or remain in any county in this State,
between the first day of March and the first day of November in
each year, by any person or persons whatsoever: -Provided,that
nothing in this section shall apply to any cattle which have been
kept the entire previous winter in this State: Providedfurther,that
when such cattle shall come across the line of this State, loaded
VOL. V.

80

RAILROAD

CO. v. HUSEN.

[Sup. Ct.

upon a railroad car or steamboat, and shall pass through this State
without being unloaded, such shall not be construed as prohibited
by this act; but the railroad company or owners of a steamboat
performing such transportation, shall be responsible for all damages
which may result fiom the disease called the Spanish or Texas
fever, should the same occur along the line of such transportation;
and the existence of such disease along such route shall be prima
.facie evidence that such disease has been communicated by such
transportation."
" SEcT. 9. If any person or persons shall bring into this State any
Texas, Mlexican, or Indian cattle, in violation of the first section of
this act, he or they shall be liable, in all cases, for all damages sustained on account of disease communicated by said cattle."
Husen brought this action against the Hannibal and St.
Joseph Railroad Company for damages alleged to have been
done him by means of the company's violation of the foregoing
act.
On the trial in the Circuit Court for Grundy County it was,
among other things, objected by the company that the act was
in violation of that part of sect. 8 of art. 1 of the Constitution
of the United States which provides that Congress shall have
power "to regulate commerce with foreign nations, and among
the several States, and with the Indian tribes." This objection
having been overruled, there was a judgment for the plaintiff;
which the Supreme Court on appeal affirmed, holding that the
act was "not contrary in any wise, in regard to this case, to
the Constitution of the United States."
The company then brought the case here.
iIr. James Carrfor the plaintiff in error.
That portion of the eighth section and first article of the
Constitution of the United States, which provides that Congress
shall have power "to regulate commerce with foreign nations,
and among the several States, and with the Indian tribes," confers exclusive power on Congress. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat.
1 ; Passenger Cases, 7 How. 283; -Ex parte HeNiel, 13 Wall.
236; Case of the State Freight Tax, 15 id. 232; Railroad
Company v. Fuller, 17 id. 560; Henderson et al. v. MBayor qi
NT7ew York et al., 92 U. S. 259; Chy Lung v. Freeman et al.,
id. 275; In the Matter of Ah Fang, 1 Cent. Law Jour. 516.

Oct. 1877.]

RAILROAD CO. V. HUSEN.

The act in question discriminates against certain property
which may be brought from Texas into Missouri, and absolutely prohibits bringing it into the State between the first day
of March and the first day of November in each year. This is
no police regulation. If it required an inspection of the cattle
at the State line by some competent person, to ascertain their
condition, and permitted them, if found free from disease, to be
carried into the State, it would not be obnoxious to the objection of regulating inter-state commerce, or of discriminating
against a certain species of property coming from a particular section. In its present shape, it is a regulation of interstate commerce as much as is the statute of California, which,
inter alia, prohibits vessels from landing "a lewd or debauched
woman," without first giving the required bond. CA1y Lung v.
Freeman et al., 92 U. S. 275.
Mr. .1. A. Low, eontra.
The act, although it may affect, does not in any proper
sense regulate, commerce. "Not every thing which affects
commerce is a regulation of it, within the meaning of the
Constitution." State Tax on Railway Gross Receipts, 15
Wall. 284; Iunn v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 113; Gibons v. Ogden,
9 Wheat. 1; Passenger Cases, 7 How. 283; Slaughter-House
Cases, 16 Wall. 36.
Whilst the power to regulate commerce is granted to Congress, that of establishing interior police regulations belongs
to the States. The latter, in conferring the power over interstate commerce, never delegated to Congress that of making
police regulations; yet, in exercising the granted power, Congress may incidentally affect or even abrogate those regulations. On the other hand, in establishing them, a State mav
incidentally affect commerce; but they, when not in conflict
with any act of Congress, are valid. These powers are distinct
and separate; but it is no objection to a regulation made in
pursuance of one of them that it would be appropriate to the
exercise of the other. Gibons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1; City of
New York v. 11iln, 11 Pet. 102; Slaughter-House Cases, 16 Wall.
36; Poster v. Master and Wardens of the Port of New Orleans,
94 U. S. 246; Gilman v. Philadelphia,3 Wall. 713; Exparte
Mcei¥iel, 1:" id. 236 ; Story, Const., sect. 1070.

RAILROAD CO. V. HUSEN.

[Sup. Ct.

" The legislature may, no doubt, prohibit railways from carrying freight which is regarded as detrimental to public health
or morals, or the public safety generally." Thorpe v. Rutlond
&' BurlingtonRailway, 27 Vt. 140. The power of the States to
pass quarantine and inspection laws has never been questioned,
and it includes that of prescribing the necessary regulations, as
well as the subjects to which they may be applied. The right
to impose restraints upon the use and disposal of articles found
by experience or upon inspection to be injurious to the health,
morals, or general welfare of her citizens belongs to the State.
The act is in the nature of a quarantine regulation, and,
as such, is valid. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1; Brown v.
1ifaryland, 12 id. 419; IWillson v. The Blackbird Creek Marsh
Co., 2 Pet. 245; City of New York v. Miln, 11 id. 102; Holmes
v. ennison, 14 id. 615; License Cases, 5 How. 577; Passenger Cases, 7 id. 283; Cooley v. Board of Wardens, 12 id. 319;
License Tax Cases, 5 Wall. 462; Pervear v. Commonwealth, id.
475; United States v. Dewitt, 9 id. 41; Ex parte HeNiel, 13
id. 236; Case of the State Freight Tax, 15 id. 279; SlaughterHouse Cases, 16 id. 36; Railroad Company v. Puller, 17 id.
560; Nunn v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 113; Poster v. Mfaster and
Wardens, id. 246; City of St. Louis v. Boffinger, 19 Mo. 13;
Yeazel v. Alexander, 58 Ill. 254; Cooley, Const. Lim. 584;
Potter's Dwarris, 457.
MR.JUSTIO STROXG delivered the opinion of the court.
Five assignments of error appear in this record; but they
raise only a single question. It ie, whether the statute of
Missouri, upon which the action in the State court was
founded, is in conflict with the clause of the Constitution of
the United States that ordains " Congress shall have power to
regulate commerce with foreign nations, and among the several
States, and with the Indian tribes." The statute, approved
Jan. 23, 1872, by its first section, enacted as follows: "No
Texas, Mexican, or Indian cattle shall be driven or otherwise
conveyed into, or remain, in any county in this State, between
the first day of March and the first day of November in each
year, by any person or persons whatsoever." A later section
is in these words: "If any person or persons shall bring into

Oct. 1877.]

ORAILROAD CO. v. HUSEN.

this State any Texas, Mexican, or Indian cattle, in violation of
the first section of this act, he or they shall be liable, in all
cases, for all damages sustained on account of disease communicated by said cattle." Other sections make such bringing of
cattle into the State a criminal offence, and provide penalties
for it. It was, however, upon the provisions we have quoted
that this action was brought against the railroad company that
had conveyed the cattle into the county. It is noticeable that
the statute interposes a direct prohibition against the introduction into the State of all Texas, Mexican, or Indian cattle during eight months of each year, without any distinction between
such as may be diseased and such as are not. It is true a
proviso to the first section enacts that "when such cattle shall
come across the line of the State, loaded upon a railroad car or
steamboat, and shall pass through the State without being unloaded, such shall not be construed as prohibited by the act;
but the railroad company or owners of a steamboat performing
such transportation shall be responsible for all damages which
may result from the disease called the Spanish or Texas fever,
should the same occur along the line of transportation; and
the existence of such disease along the line of such route shall
be primafacie evidence that such disease has been communicated by such transportation." This proviso imposes burdens
and liabilities for transportation through the State, though the
cattle be not unloaded, while the body of the section absolutely
prohibits the introduction of any such cattle into the State, with
the single exception mentioned.
It seems hardly necessary to argue at length, that, unless
the statute can be justified as a legitimate exercise of the police
power of the State, it is a usurpation of the power vested exclusively in Congress. It is a plain regulation of inter-state
commerce, a regulation extending to prohibition. Whatever
may be the power of a State over commerce that is completely
internal, it can no more prohibit or regulate that which is
inter-state than it can that which is with foreign nations.
Power over one is given by the Constitution of the United
States to Congress in the same words in which it is given over
the other, and in both cases it is necessarily exclusive. That
the transportation of property from one State to another is a

RAILROAD Co. v. HusEN.

[Sup. Ct.

branich of inter-state commerce is undeniable, and no attempt
has been made in this case to deny it.
The Missouri statute is a plain interference with such transportation,' an attempted exercise over it of the, highest possible
power, - that of destruction. It meets at the borders of the
State a large and commin subject of commerce, and prohibits
its crossing the State line during two-thirds of each year, with
a proviso, however, that such cattle may come across the line
loaded upon a railroad car or steamboat, and pass through the
State without being unloaded. But even the right of steamboat owners and railroad companies to transport such property
through the State is loaded by the law with onerous liabilities,
because of their agency in the transportation. The object and
effect of the statute are, therefore, to obstruct inter-state commerce, and to discriminate between the property of citizens of
one State and that of citizens of other States. This court has
heretofore said that inter-state transportation of passengers is,
beyond the reach of a State legislature. And if, as we have
held, State taxation of persons passing from one State to another, or a State tax upon inter-state transportation of passengers, is prohibited by the Constitution because a burden upon
it, a fortiori, if possible, is a State tax upon the carriage of
merchandise from State to State. Transportation is essential
to commerce, or rather it is commerce itself ; and every obstacle
to it, or burden laid upon it by legislative authority, is regulation. Case of the State F7reight Tax, 15 Wall. 232; Ward v.
Maryland,12 id. 418 ; Welton v. The State of Missouri, 91 U. S.
275; Henderson et al. v. Mayor of the City Qf NDew York et al.,
92 id. 259; Chy Lung v. Freeman et al., id. 275. The two
latter of these cases refer to obstructions against the admission
of persons into a State, but the principles asserted are equally
applicable to all subjects of commerce.
We are thus brought to the question whether the Missouri
statute is a lawful exercise of the police power of the State.
We admit that the deposit in Congress of the power to regulate
foreign commerce and commerce among the States was not a
surrender of that which may properly be denominated police
power. What that power is, it is difficult to define with sharp
precision. It is generally said to extend to making regulations

Oct. 1877.]

RAILROAD

CO.

V. HUSEN.

promotive of domestic order, morals, health, and safety. As
was said in Thorp v. The Rutland & Burlington Railroad
Co., 27 Vt. 149, "it extends to the protection of the lives,
limbs, health, comfort, and quiet of all persons, and the protection of all property within the State. According to the maxim,
sic utere tuo ut alienum non lcedas, which, being of universal
application, it must, of course, be within the range of legislative
action to define the mode and manner in which every one may
so use his own as not to injure others." It was further said,
that, by the general police power of a State, "persons and property are subjected to all kinds of restraints and burdens, in
order to secure the general comfort, health, and prosperity of
the State; of the perfect right of the legislature to do which
no question ever was, or upon acknowledged general principles
ever can be made, so far as natural persons are concerned."
It may also be admitted that the police powers of a State justifies the adoption of precautionary measures against social evils.
Under it a State may legislate to prevent the spread of crime,
or pauperism, or disturbance of the peace. It may exclude
from its limits convicts, paupers, idiots, and lunatics, and per.
sons likely to become a public charge, as well as persons
afflicted by contagious or infectious diseases ; a right founded,
as intimated in The Passenger Cases, 7 How. 283, by Air. Justice Greer, in the sacred law of self-defence. Vide 3 Sawyer
283. The same principle, it may also be conceded, would justify
the exclusion of property dangerous to the property of citizens
of the State; for example, animals having contagious or infectious diseases. All these exertions of power are in immediate
connection with the protection of persons and property against
noxious acts of other persons, or such a use of property as is
injurious to the property of others. They are self-defensive.
But whatever may be the nature and reach of the police
power of a State, it cannot be exercised over a subject confided
exclusively to Congress by the Federal Constitution. It cannot
invade the domain of the national government. It was said in
ifenderson et al. v. Mayor of the City of New York et al., supra.
to "be clear, from the nature of our complex form of government, that whenever the statute of a State invades the domain
of legislation which belongs exclusively to the Congress of the

RAILROAD

Co. v.

RUSEN.

(Sup. C

United States, it is void, no matter under what class of powers
it may fall, or how closely allied it may be to powers conceded
to belong to the States." Substantially the same thing was
said by Chief Justice Marshall in GCibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1.
Neither the unlimited powers of a State to tax, nor any of its
large police powers, can be exercised to such an extent as
'to work a practical assumption of the powers properly conferred upon Congress by the Constitution. Many acts of a
State may, indeed, affect commerce, without amounting to a
regulation of it, in the constitutional sense of the term. And
it is sometimes difficult to define the distinction between that
which merely affects or influences and that which regulates
or furnishes a rule for conduct. There is no such difficulty
in the present case. While we unhesitatingly admit that
a State may pass sanitary laws, and laws for the protection of life, liberty, health, or property within its borders;
while it may prevent persons and animals suffering under contagious or infectious diseases, or convicts, &c., from entering
the State; while for the purpose of self-protection it may establish quarantine, and reasonable inspection laws, it may not
interfere with transportation into or through the State, beyond
what is absolutely necessary for its self-protection. It may
not, under the cover of exerting its police powers, substantially
prohibit or burden either foreign or inter-state commerce.
Upon this subject the cases in 92 U. S. to which we have
referred are very instructive. In Hfenderson v. The l3Iayor, &e.,
the statute of New York was defended as a police regulation
to protect the State against the influx of foreign paupers; but
it was held to be unconstitutional, because its practical result
was to impose a burden upon all passengers from foreign countries. And it was laid down that, "in whatever language a
statute may be framed, its purpose must be determined by its
natural and reasonable effect." The reach of the statute was
far beyond its professed object, and far into the realm which
is within the exclusive jurisdiction of Congress. So in the
case of Chy Lung v. Freeman, where the pretence was the exclusion of lewd women; but as the statute was more far-reaching, and affected other immigrants, not of any class which the
State could lawfully exclude, we held it unconstitutional.

Oct. 187 7.]

RAILROAD 00. V. HUSEN.

Neither of these cases denied the right of a State to protect
herself against paupers, convicted criminals, or lewd women, by
necessary and proper laws, in the absence of legislation by
Congress, but it was ruled that the right could only arise from
vital necessity, and that it could not be carried beyond the
scope of that necessity. These cases, it is true, speak only of
laws affecting the entrance of persons into a State ; but the
constitutional doctrines they maintain are equally applicable to
inter-state transportation of property. They deny validity to
any State legislation professing to be an exercise of police
power for protection against evils from abroad, which is beyond the necessity for its exercise wherever it interferes with
the rights and powers of the Federal government.
Tried by this rule, the statute of Missouri is a plain intrusion
upon the exclusive domain of Congress. It is not a quarantine
law. It is not an inspection law. It says to all natural persons and to all transportation companies, " You shall not
bring into the State any Texas cattle or any Mexican cattle
or Indian cattle, between March 1 and Dec. 1 in any year, no
matter whether they are free from disease or not, no matter
whether they may do an injury to the inhabitants of the State or
not; and if you do bring them in, even for the purpose of carrying them through the State without unloading them, you shall
be subject to extraordinary liabilities." Such a statute, we do
not doubt, it is beyond the power of a State to enact. To hold
otherwise would be to ignore one of the leading objects which
the Constitution of the United States was designed to secure.
In coming to such a conclusion, we have not overlooked the
decisions of very respectable courts in Illinois, where statutes
similar to the one we have before us have been sustained.
Yeazel v. Alexander, 58 Ill. 254. Regarding the statutes as
mere police regulations, intended to protect domestic cattle
against infectious disease, those courts have refused to inquire
-whether the prohibition did not extend beyond the danger to
be apprehended, and whether, therefore, the statutes were not
something more than exertions of police power. That inquiry,
they have said, was for the legislature and not for the courts.
With this we cannot concur. The police power of a State
cannot obstruct foreign commerce or inter-state commerce

BROWN V. SPOFFORD.

[Sup. Ct.

beyond the necessity for its exercise; and under color of it
objects not within its scope cannot be secured at the expense
of the protection affoi'ded by the Federal Constitution. And
as its range sometimes comes very near to the field committed
by the Constitution to Congress, it is the duty of the courts to
guard vigilantly against any needless intrusion.
Judgment reversed, and the record remanded with instructions
to reverse the judgment of the Circuit Court of Grundy
Gounty, and to direct that court to award a new trial.

B:RowN v. SPOFFORD.
i. Where, at the time of making and indorsing a promissory note, a written
contract in relation thereto is entered into by the parties, parol testimony
varying or contradicting its terms is not admissible.
2. The court reaffirms the doctrine that a bona fide purchaser for value before
maturity of a negotiable instrument, is not, unless they are brought to his
notice, affected by any equities between the original parties.
3. A party who seeks to avail himself of the conditions of a compromise binding
him to the performance of certain acts, in order to discharge the original
demand, must first show performance on his part.
4. The court condemns as irregular, proceedings whereby the defendant in two
separate suits, in the former of which judgment had been rendered before
the latter had gone to trial, was permitted to file bills of exception purporting to be applicable to each case, and, without consolidating them, remove
them to this court by one writ of error.

ERRoR to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
This action was brought by Spofford & Clark, against Samuel P. Brown and Austin P. Brown, on five promissory notes,
for $2,267.33 each, made by the defendants Jan. 8, 1872, by
their firm name of S. P. Brown & Son, and payable to the
order of Austin P. Brown in one, two, three, four, and five
months after date. The declaration alleged that the notes
were, on the date thereof, severally indorsed by the said Austin
P. Brown, and came before maturity, in due and regular course
of commercial dealing, and for a full, fair, and valuable consideration, into the possession and ownership of the plaintiffs, but
were protested for non-payment, whereof due notice was given
the indorser.

