UNITED STATES v. BABBITT.

UNITED STATES

v.

[Sup. Ct.

BABBITT.

1. Where, under the acts of Feb. 11, 1847 (9 Stat. 125), Sept. 28, 1850 (id. 520),
March 22, 1852 (10 id. 3), and March 3, 1855 (10 id. 635), military bountyland warrants were located on public land, subject to private entry by them,

it was the duty of the register of the land-office where the locations were
made to receive the register's fees therefor.
2. Where the register received them, his refusal to pay over to the United Stateb
the surplus beyond the maximum compensation of $3,000 per annum, to
which he was entitled by law for all his services of every description, is a

breach of his official bond, both as respects himself and his sureties; and
the United States is under no necessity to proceed against him by an action

on the case for money had and received.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Iowa.
This is an action of debt upon a bond given by Lysander
W. Babbitt and the other defendants to the United States, on
the ninth day of May, 1853, to recover the sum of $10,000
alleged to have been charged and received by him, during his
term of office, as fees for the location of military bountyland warrants under the provisions of the acts of Congress
approved the 11th of February, 1847, the 28th of September,
1850, the 22d of March, 1852, and the 3d of March, 1855,
over and above the maximum compensation of 83,000 which
he, as such register, -was authorized to retain. The bond was
conditioned as follows :"Whereas the President of the United States bath, pursuant to
law, appointed the said Lysander W. Babbitt register of the landoffice for the district of land subject to sell at Kanesville, in the
State of Iowa, for the term of four years from the sixth day of
April, 1853, by commission dated the eighth day of April, 1853:
Now, therefore, if the said Lysander W. Babbitt has truly and
faithfully executed and discharged, and shall continue truly and
faithfully to execute and discharge, all the duties of the said office,
according to law, then the above obligation to be void and of none
effect; otherwise it shall abide and remain in full force and virtue."
The defendants, Hall and Burnett, as the sureties on the
bond, among other pleas, pleaded separately for themselves
that it was no part of the official duties of Babbitt, as such
register, to receive the said fees, and that he was not required,

Oct. 1877.]

UNITED

STATES

t.

BABBITT.

by the obligations of said bond, to pay the same to the United
States.
Babbitt, for himself alone, among other pleas, pleaded the
same defence.
To each of these several pleas the United States demurred.
The court overruled the demurrers, and rendered final judgment in favor of all the defendants.
On the hearing of the demurrers and in the rendition of
said judgment, the judges were opposed in opinion upon two
questions, which are set forth in the opinion of the court. The
United States sued out this writ of error.
.3r. Assistant Attorney- General Sm it for the plaintiff in
error.
No counsel appeared for the defendants in error.
JuSTIcE SwAYN delivered the opinion of the court.
This case comes before us upon a certificate of a division of
opinion of the judges by whom the case was tried in the Circuit Court.
The questions certified are :1. Whether it was the duty of the defendant Babbitt, as
register of the land-office, to receive the register's fees from
the locators of military bounty-land warrants, upon their being
located on the public lands, subject to private entry by such
warrants, under the acts of Feb. 11, 1847, Sept. 28, 1850,
March 22, 1852, and March 3, 1855.
2. Whether, if such fees were charged and received by Babbitt, as such register, his neglect and refusal to account for
and pay over to the United States the surplus, over and above
the maximum compensation authorized to be by him received,
as determined in this case by the Supreme Court of the United
States, in United States v. Babbit, 1 Black, 55, constitutes a
breach of the conditions of the official bond of Babbitt, as register, as respects himself alone, and also as respects the sureties
in the bond, and whether in such case the remedy is not by
an action against Babbitt for money had and received.
The reported case, to which reference is made, contains a
careful analysis of the acts of Congress mentioned in the first
question, and of several others relating to the subject. It ii

MNi.

UNITED STATES V. BABBITT.

[Sup. Ct,

unnecessary to go over the same ground again, or to reproduce
any thing there said.
It was held in that case that $3,000 per annum was the
maximum compensation allowed to the register by law, and
that he was not entitled to hold in addition the fees in question in his own right.
The act of March 3, 1853, requires that "the surplus which
shall remain" of such fees, beyond the compensation to which
the register is entitled, "shall be paid into the Treasury of the
United States as other moneys."
There could be no paying without previous receiving. The
latter duty is explicitly declared. The prior one is as clearly
to be inferred. Both would be alike implied in the absence
of the provision as to paying over.
What is implied in a statute, will, deed, or contract is as
much a part of it as what is expressed. United States v. Babbit, supra.
The first question certified must, therefore, be answered in
the affirmative.
To the second it must be answered, that, if the register received such fees, the neglect and refusal to pay over to the
United States the surplus beyond the compensation to which
he was entitled by law was a breach of the condition of his
official bond, both as respects himself and the sureties in the
bond, and that the United States is under no necessity to proceed against the principal in the bond by an action on the
case for money had and received.
The judgment will be reversed, and the cause remanded for
further proceedings in conformity to this opinion; and it isSo ordered.

