NEAL V. CLAR[.

[Sup. t

NEAL v. CLARxK.
1. The word "fraud," as used in the thirty-third section of the bankrupt law of
1867, which provides that "no debt created by the fraud or embezzlement
of the bankrupt, or by defalcation as a public officer, or while acting in a
fiduciary capacity, shall be discharged under this act," means positive fraud
or fraud in fact, involving moral turpitude or intentional wrong, and not
implied fraud or fraud in law, which may exist without the imputation of
bad faith or immorality.
2. Accordingly, where a party paid an executor for a portion of the assets of an
estate which he purchased at a discount, but without any actual fraud, and
where he was, with the executor, who failed to account therefor, held liable
for a detastavit, - Held, that his subsequent discharge in bankruptcy was a
complete defence to an action against him for such devastavit.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of Appeals of the State of
Virginia.
The facts out of which this case arises, so far as it is material
to state them, are substantially these: William Fitzgerald, Jr., of the State of Virginia, by his will,
which was admitted to probate in 1857, directed his executor
to sell his entire landed estate, and distribute the proceeds
among those entitled to them, according to the provisions of
the will. The lands were sold as directed, in the same year,
the purchasers giving bonds, with security, payable to the executor as such. Two of these bonds, each dated Dec. 1, 1857,
-Qne for $1,000, due Nov. 18, 1859, with interest from Nov.
18, 1858, and the other for $2,293, due, with like interest, Nov.
18, 1860, - were sold and assigned by the executor, in June,
1859, to Griffith D. Neal, the plaintiff in error, for the sum of
$2,780, who sold them to Richard Jones for $3,056. The latter
collected them. When this transaction occurred, the executor,
who was a brother of the testator, was a man of large property and undoubted solvency. Neal made no inquiry as to the
condition of the estate, but the executor gave, as a reason for
selling the bonds, that the estate was in debt to him for moneys
advanced.
In 1860, a suit was instituted against the executor in the Circuit Court for Pittsylvania County, Virginia, to obtain a settlement of his accounts and a distribution of the estate. In 1861,

Oct. 1877.]

NEAL V. CLARK.

in obedience to an order of court, he gave a new bond, with
'lark and Holland as sureties; and in 1868 they were made
defend-,'s, and a decree was asked against them for whatever
sam should be ascertained to be due from the executor. In
1869,- ten years after Neal had purchased the bonds, about
seven years after the executor had become insolvent and removed from the State, and without any question having been
previously raised as to Neal's liability, -Clark
and Holland
exhibited their bill in the same court against the executor,
the distributees, Neal, Jones, and others. They allege that the
executor, in disposing of the bonds, committed a devastavit of
the estate, and that, in view of the circumstances under which
he received them, Neal became a participant in that devastavit,
and is liable to the distributees for the amount of the bonds.
They ask that, as sureties of the executor, they be substituted
to the rights which the distributees have against Neal by
reason of his alleged unlawful appropriation of the testator's
assets. In the event of any judgment against them, they pray
that it be rendered to be first satisfied by the purchaser of the
notes.
In the District Court of the United States for the District of
Virginia Neal was duly adjudged a bankrupt, and received his
certificate, dated Feb. 11, 1869, showing his discharge from all
debts and claims which, by the bankrupt law, were provable
against his estate, and which existed on the 25th of January,
1868, " except such debts as were exempted from the operation
of a discharge in bankruptcy."
Neal pleaded his discharge in bar of the action against him,
but the Circuit Court for Pittsylvania'County gave judgment
against him and Jones for the amount of the two notes purchased from the executor. That judgment, so far as it held
Neal liable, was affirmed in the Supreme Court of Appeals of
Virginia, but, so far as it related to Jones, was reversed. Thereupon Neal brought the case here.
M1r. William A. 3_aurly for the plaintiff in error.
The "fraud or embezzlement" described by the bankrupt
law of 1867 refers only to transactions involving criminal intent and wilful wrong-doing.
The object of statutes in relation to embezzlement is to
VOL. V.
46

NEAL V. CLARK.

[Sup. Ot.

embrace certain cases where, although the moral guilt was quite
as great as in larceny, the technical objection, arising from
the fact of possession lawfully acquired by the offending party,
screened him from punishment. They were, therefore, declared
crimes punishable by law. Commonwealth v. Simpson, 9 Met.
(Mass.) 192.
The association of 'fraud" with "embezzlement" fully justifies the conclusion that the legislature used the former word
to indicate a transaction involving moral turpitude.
To deprive a party guilty of no intentional wrong of the
benefit of his discharge in bankruptcy, upon the ground that
he has committed a technical devastavit, defeats to that extent
an act for the relief of the unfortunate debtors who in good
faith surrender their property to their creditors.
No counsel appeared for the defendant in error.
MR. JusTIcE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.

This case involves the meaning of the word "fraud," as used
in the thirty-third section of the bankrupt law of 1867. That
section provides that "no debt created by the fraud or embezzlement of the bankrupt, or by defalcation as a public officer,
or while acting in a fiduciary capacity, shall be discharged
under this act."
In the very able opinion of the Court of Appeals, it is said
that "all the cases agree in the principle that a purchaser from
an executor of personal property of the testator for valuable
consideration need not inquire, and has no means of inquiry,
whether the condition of the testator's estate requires a sale
of the property, and is not bound to see to the application of
the purchase-money, but may fairly presume that the sale is
rightly made, and that the purchase-money will be properly
applied; and that such a purchaser can only be made liable on
the ground of a fraudulent participation with the executor in
the commission of a devastavit of his testator's estate. In other
words, that the purchaser must be guilty of a fraud in that
respect."
"The only diversity in the cases," continues that court,
"seems to have arisen from the different views of the judges as
to the nature of the fraud within the meaning of the principle ;

Oct. 1877.]

IEAL V. CLARK.

that is, whether there must be actual fraud, or whether it is
enough that there is implied or constructive fraud, or gross
negligence, which may be equivalent to fraud."
Upon an elaborate review of the authorities, mainly its own
previous decisions, and upon consideration of all the evidence,
that court reached these conclusions: 1st, That the executor had committed a devastavit by selling
the bonds at a discount, since the needs of the estate did not
require it, and since they had not become his property by reason of any advances made by him, or otherwise.
2d, That Neal was not chargeable with actual fraud, but, in
view of the circumstances attending his purchase, he had committed constructive fraud, which implicated him in the devastavit.
3d, That "fraud," in the thirty-third section of the bankrupt
law of 1867, included both constructive and actual fraud, and
consequently that Neal, although guilty of constructive fraud
only, was equally liable with the executor who had wasted the
estate and failed to account for the amount of the bonds assigned to Neal.
Whether Neal, according to the previous decisions of the
Virginia courts, was guilty of constructive fraud, and, upon that
ground, became liable to the distributees as a participant in the
devastavit of the estate, it is not within our province, upon this
appeal, to inquire. Our jurisdiction extends to the re-examination of the final decree, only so far as it involves the construction of the bankrupt law and the denial, by the State court, of
rights claimed by the bankrupt under that law.
We concur in the view expressed by the State court, that
Neal was not guilty of actual fraud. The evidence does not
show that he entertained any purpose himself to commit a
fraud, or to aid the executor in committing one. The fair inference from all the testimony is that he purchased the bonds
in good faith, not doubting the power or the right of the executor to sell, and having no reason to believe that he meditated
any wrong to those interested in the estate which he was administering. Indeed, it appears from the opinion of the State
court, that, a few months prior to the purchase, a commissioner
had reported a settlement of the executor's accounts, showing a

NEAL V. CLARM.

[SUP.

Ot.

balance due the latter of $765.41. That settlement was of
record.
But we do not concur in the construction which the State
court gave to the thirty-third section of the bankrupt law of
1867. In reaching this conclusion, we have not been assisted
by any express decisions upon the question before us.
The Bankrupt Act of 1841 exempted from discharge debts
"created in consequence of a defalcation as a public officer, or
as executor, administrator, guardian, or trustee, or while acting
in any fiduciary capacity." The question arose under that act
whether a factor who had sold the property of his principal,
and had failed to pay over the proceeds, was a fiduciary debtor
within the meaning of that clause. This court, in Chapman v.
Forsythi et al., 2 How. 202, said: "If the act embrace such a
debt, it will be difficult to limit its application. It must include all debts arising from agencies, and, indeed, all cases
where the law implies an obligation from the trust reposed in
the debtor. Such a construction would have left but few debts
on which the law could operate. In almost all the commercial
transactions of the country, confidence is reposed in the punctuality and integrity of the debtor; and a violation of these is,
in a commercial sense, a disregard of a trust. But this is not
the relation spoken of in the first section of the act.
" The cases enumerated, 'the defalcation of a public officer,'
executor,' ' administrator,' 'guardian,' or ' trustee,' are not cases
of implied, but special, trusts; and ' the other fiduciary capacity'
mentioned must mean the same class of trusts. The act speaks
of technical trusts, and not those which the law implies from
the contract. A factor is not, therefore, within the act."
A like process of reasoning may be properly employed in
construing the corresponding section of the act of 1867. It is
a familiar rule in the interpretation of written instruments and
statutes that "a passage will be best interpreted by reference
to that which precedes and follows it." So, also, "the meaning of a word may be ascertained by reference to the meaning
of words associated with it." In Broom's Legal Maxims,
p. 450, it is said: "It is a rule laid down by Lord Bacon, that
copulatio verborum indiat acceptationem in eodem sensu,- the
coupling of words together shows that they are to be under.

Oct. 18T7.]

N.EAL V. CLARK.

709

stood in the same sense. And where the meaning of any particular word is doubtful or obscure, . . . the intention of the
party who has made use of it may frequently be ascertained
and carried unto effect by looking at the adjoining words."
The same author says (p. 455): "In the construction of statutes, likewise, the rule noscitur a soejis is very frequently
applied ; the meaning of a word, and, consequently, the intention of the legislature, being ascertained by refermnce to the
context, and by considering whether the word in question and
the surrounding words are, in fact, ejusdem generis, and referable to the same subject-matter."
Applying these rules to this case, we remark, that, in the section of the law of 1867 which sets forth the classes of debts
which are exempted from the operation of a discharge in bankruptcy, debts created by "fraud" are associated directly with
debts created by "embezzlement."
Such association justifies,
if it does not imperatively require, the conclusion that the
"fraud " referred to in that section means positive fraud, or
fraud in fact, involving moral turpitude or intentional wrong,
as does embezzlement; and not implied fraud, or fraud in law,
which may exist without the imputation of bad faith or immorality. Such a construction of the statute is consonant with
equity, and consistent with- the object and intention of Congress in enacting a general law by which the honest citizen
may be relieved from the burden of hopeless insolvency. A
different construction would be inconsistent with the liberal
spirit which pervades the entire bankrupt system.
It results from what has been said that the debt or claim asserted against Neal was not "created by the fraud . . . of the
bankrupt," within the meaning of the thirty-third section of
the law of 1867. His discharge in bankruptcy affords him
complete protection. The court erred in adjudging otherwise.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Appeals of Virginia
will, therefore, be reversed, with directions to reverse the decree rendered against Neal in the Circuit Court for Pittsylvania County, and to remand the case to the last-named court,
with an order requiring it to dismiss the original and cross-bill
of Clark and Holland against Neal, with costs, and for other
proper action in conformity to this opinion; and it is
So ordered.

