UNITED STATES V. MOORE.

UNITED STATES V.

[Sup. ot.

MOORE.

1. The words, "after date of appointment" and "from such date," which occur
in sect. 1556 of the Revised Statutes, fixing the annual pay of passed
assistant-surgeons of the navy, refer not to the original entry of the officer
into the service as an assistant-surgeon, but to the notification by the Secretary of the Navy that he has passed his examination for promotion to the
grade of surgeon, and will thereafter, until such promotion, be considered
as a passed assistant-surgeon.

2. A passed assistant-surgeoney is an office, and the notification of the Secretary
of the Navy is a valid appointment to it.
APPEAL from the Court of Claims.
This was an action in the Court of Claims by Andrew M.
Moore against the United States to recover certain pay which
he alleged was due him as an officer in the navy.
That court found the following facts : 1. On the 12th of April, 1869, the claimant was appointed
and commissioned an assistant-surgeon in the navy of the
United States.
2. On the 24th of February, 1874, after examination, he was
found qualified for promotion to the grade of surgeon. He was,
on the following day, notified by the Secretary of the Navy
that the report of the board of examiners, before whom he had
appeared for examination, was approved by the department,
and that from that date he would be regarded as a passed
assistant-surgeon; and from that date up to the date of the
institution of this suit, May 3, 1876, he received pay as passed
assistant-surgeon in the first five years after appointment as
such.
3. From the 12th of April, 1874, till May 3, 1876, the claimant's service was as follows: On shore-duty, four hundred and
thirty-eight days, for which he was paid at the rate of $1,800
per annum; on leave or waiting orders, three hundred and
twenty-three days, for which he was paid at the rate of $1,500
per annum.
Upon the foregoing facts the court, being equally divided in
opinion, held pro forma, for the purposes of an appeal, that the
claimant was entitled to the rate of pay established by law for
a passed assistant-surgeon, after five years from the date of

Oct. 1877.]

UNITED

STATES V. MOORE.

appointment; that is to say, when on shore-duty, at the rate
of $2,000 per annum, and when on leave or waiting orders, at
the rate of $1,700 per annum; and that the claimant was therefore entitled to receive, for the seven hundred and sixty-one
days specified, the additional sum of $409.95, for which judgnent was entered.
The United States appealed.
Hir. Assistant Attorney- General Smith for the United States.
Mr. John B. Sanborn and 31r. Charles King, contra.
Mr. JUSTICE SwANE delivered the opinion of the court.
On the 12th of April, 1869, the appellee was appointed an
assistant-surgeon in the navy of the United States. On the
24th of February, 1874, he was examined for promotion to the
grade of surgeon. On the following day, he was notified by
the Secretary of the Navy that the report of the board of examiners was approved by the department, and that from that
date he would be regarded as a passed assistant-surgeon. From
that time up to the institution of this suit he received the pay
fixed by law for passed assistant-surgeons during the first five
years after their appointment as such.
The statutes of the United States provides as follows: "The active list of the medical corps of the navy shall consist of fifteen medical directors, fifteen medical inspectors, fifty
surgeons, and one hundred assistant-surgeons." Rev. Stat.,
sect. 1368. "1No person shall be appointed surgeon until he
has served as an assistant-surgeon at least two years on board
a public vessel of the United States at sea, nor until he has
been examined and approved for such appointment by a board
of naval surgeons designated by the Secretary of the Navy."
Id., sect. 1370. "The commissioned officers and warrant officers on the active list of the navy of the United States, and
the petty officers, seamen, ordinary seamen, firemen, coal
heavers, and employgs in the navy, shall be entitled to receive
annual pay at the rates herein stated after their respective
designations." . . . "Passed assistant-surgeons, passed assist
ant-paymasters, and passed assistant-engineers, during the first
five years after date of appointment, when at sea, $2,000; on
shore-duty, $1,800; on leave or waiting orders, $1,500; after

UNITED STATFS V. MOORE.

[Sup. Ct.

five years from such date, when at sea, $2,200; on shore-duty,
$2,000; on leave or waiting orders, $1,700," Assistant-surgeons, assistant-paymasters, and second assistant-engineers,
during the first five years after date of appointment, when at
sea, $1,700; on shore-duty, $1,400; on leave or waiting orders,
$1,000; after five years from such date, when at sea, $1,900;
on shore-duty, $1,600; on leave or waiting orders, $1,200."
Id., sect. 1556.
The appellee claims that the phrases, "after date of appointment" and "from such date," touching passed assistant-surgeons, refer to the date of his original appointment, when he
entered the service as assistant-surgeon, and not to the time
of the notification by the Secretary of the Navy that he would
thereafter be regarded as a passed assistant-surgeon.
The
question arising from these conflicting constructions is the one
presented for our determination. The government entertains
the latter view, and we think correctly. It has always heretofore obtained in the Navy Department.
The place of passed assistant-surgeon is an office, and the
notification by the Secretary of the Navy was a valid appointment to it. United States v. Hartwell, 6 Wall. 385; Const.
U. S., art. 2, sect. 2.
The context in which the phrases occur shows clearly that
they relate to the appointment of passed assistants, and not to
that of assistants who have not passed. The former are there
expressly named and provided for. The latter are neither
named nor alluded to. They belong to distinct classes, and
separate and distinct provision is made for the pay of each.
According to the construction contended for by the appellee,
if a passed assistant did not become such until ten years after
he en tered the service as an assistant, he would receive pay five
years as a passed assistant before he reached that grade. This
is a necessary consequence of the appellee's proposition, and
sets its error in a strong light. Such a result could not have
been intended by Congress. It would make the law in all
such cases retrospective. A statute is never to be so construed
as to have this effect, if it can be reasonably avoided. The
presumption, until rebutted, is the other way. Sedgw. Const.
161 and notes.

Oet. 1877.]

UNITED STATES V. MOORE.

The construction given to a statute by those charged with
the duty of executing it is always entitled to the most respectful consideration, and ought not to be overruled without cogent
reasons. Edwards v. Darby, 12 Wheat. 210; United States v.
The State Bank of N'ortt Carolina, 6 Pet. 29; United States
v. 3lacDaniel,7 id. 1. The officers concerned are usually able
men, and masters of the subject. Not unfrequently they are
the draftsmen of the laws they are afterwards called upon
to interpret.
The appellee insists that he was not appointed by the Secretary of the Navy, because sect. 1369 of the Revised Statutes
requires that "all appointments in the medical corps shall be
made by the President, by and with the advice and consent of
the Senate."
It is retorted, in effect, in behalf of the government, that this
proposition, if sound, proves too much for the appellee's case;
and that, if there was no appointment by the Secretary, then
the appellee could not be a passed assistant-surgeon, because,
in addition to the Secretary's notification, he was not nominated
by the President and confirmed by the Senate.
There is certainly as much foundation for the second theory
as for the first one; but neither is correct. The place has every
ingredient of an office, and, as we have seen, the appellee was
legally appointed to it. The difficulty has arisen from the col.
lators not having been careful to harmonize the language of
the sections. Hence the seeming conflict. But the intention
of Congress is clear, and that intention constitutes the law.
A thing may be within the letter of a statute, and not within
its meaning; and it may be within the meaning, though not
within the letter. Slater v. Cave, 3 Ohio St. 85; 9 Bac.
Abr., pp. 244, 247, tit. Statute, I., 5; United States v. Babbit,
1 Black, 55. In cases like this, the construction should be such
that both provisions, if possible, may stand. The clause in
question was obviously as much intended to have effect as the
section with which it is in seeming conflict. It may well be
held to be an exception, though not so expressed, to the universality of the language of the latter. This obviates the difficulty,
harmonizes the provisions, and gives effect to both. We cannot doubt that the phrases, "after date of appointment" and

YEATMAN V. SAVINGS INSTITUTION.

[Sup. ut.

"from such date," have reference to the action of the Secretary,
and to nothing else.
Judgment reversed, and cause remanded with directions to dismiss the petition.

YEATMIAN V. SAVINGS INSTITUTION.
1. Except where, within a prescribed period before the commencement of proceedings in bankruptcy, an attachment has been sued out against the property of the bankrupt, or where his disposition of his property was, under the
statute, fraudulent and void, his assignees take his real and personal estate,
subject to all equities, liens, and incumbrances thereon, whether created Ly
his act or by operation of law.
2. Until he shall be paid, the pledgee is entitled to the possession of the property which he holds under a valid pledge as security for his debt against
the pledgors, notwithstanding a subsequent adjudication of bankruptcy
against them ; and his refusal to surrender it to their assignees is not a
conversion of it.
8. The failure of the pledgee to appear and prove his claim in the bankruptcy
court forfeits only his right to participate in the distribution of the bankrupt's estate ordered by that court.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana.
On the 22d of July, 1871, O'Fallon & Iatch, a firm doing
business at St. Louis, delivered, in pledge, to the New Orleans
Savings Institution, a corporation created by the laws of Louisiana, having its place of business in New Orleans, two certificates of indebtedness issued by that State, each for the sum of
$5,000, to secure the payment of a promissory note of the firm
for $5,000, dated July 21, 1871, made payable to its own order
on the 21st of January, 1872, and by it indorsed in blank. It
is conceded that the corporation acquired the note and the
certificates of indebtedness in due course of business, and for
a valuable consideration. The firm and the individuals composing it were, Nov. 27, 1871, adjudged bankrupts by the District Court of the United States for the Eastern District of
Missouri; and, upon the application of creditors, a receiver of
the estate and effects of the bankrupts was, by an ex parte order,
appointed, with authority to demand and receive all property of
every kind and description belonging to them.

