180

WEST PHILADELPHIA BANK v. DICKSON.

[Sup. Ct.

The act of the North Carolina legislature is but ant enlargement of the principle of set-off to meet this class of cases. Though
the statute uses the word "payment," it is obvious that payment
in the technical sense is not meant. The whole proceeding is
one of set-off. The defendant is compelled to make his application to the court, produce his bank-bills, and deposit them
there. The order or judgment of the court is that the obligation of the bills and the obligation of the judgment are set off
against each other, and both are extinguished. They are both
satisfied.
It may be said that this legislation is retroactive; and, as
applied to the case before us, it is so. But there is no constitutional inhibition against retrospective laws. Though generally
distrusted, they are often beneficial, and sometimes necessary.
Where they violate no provision of the Constitution of the
United States, there exists no power in this court to declare
them void.
Judgment affirmed.

WEST PEILADELPBIA BANK v. DICKSON.
Money paid to his creditors, by a person who they have reasonable cause to
believe.is insolvent, or obtained by them on an attachment issued against his
property, within four months next preceding the commencement of the bankruptcy proceedings, may be recovered by his assignee in bankruptcy.

EBRoR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Charles W. Hornorfor the plaintiff in error.
Mr. Samuel _Dickson, eontra.
Mit. J-USTICE Hr T delivered the opinion of the court.
In the present action, the assignees in bankruptcy of Tryon
Reakirt seek to recover from the West Philadelphia Bank two
different sums of money. The first is a sum of $5,000 paid by
Reakirt on the sixth day of February, 1871; the second is
the sum of $4,559.76 collected by B. K. Jamieson on behalf of
and for the benefit of the bank, through certain attachment

Oct. 1877.]

WEST PHILADELPHIA BANK v. DIcKSo0.

181

proceedings in the courts of the State of New Yo. k. The case
was tried before a jury in the Circuit Court of the United
States, and a verdict and judgment rendered in favor of the
assignees for the amount demanded.
The sum first mentioned is claimed to belong to the assigneeb,
on the ground that it was the payment of a debt, or the transfer
of money or goods, with a view to give a fraudulent preference
by an insolvent, and where the party receiving the money bad
reasonable cause to believe that the party paying the money
was insolvent. The provisions of the thirty-fifth section of
the Bankrupt Act control this branch of the case. There is no
doubt expressed by any party as to the insolvency of Reakirt,
the debtor. His career as a speculator bad terminated in forgery. His forgeries had been discovered, his money was gone,
and his trust in his rich relatives unavailing. The agent and
director of the bank heard of the forgery, and was the first
upon his track, demanding security or payment, and refused to
give him even a part of a day to apply to his relatives for aid,
but insisted upon an immediate transfer of his funds in bank.
With the greatest pressure, only one-half of the debt could be
obtained. Upon general principles, the case seems to fall
clearly within the provisions of the act.
The knowledge of the agent was that of the principal, and
there was not only reasonable cause to believe, but clear knowledge of, the insolvency of Reakirt.
The remaining sum falls under the fourteenth section of the
Bankrupt Act, which is as follows, viz.: "As soon as the assignee
is appointed and qualified, the judge, or, where there is no
opposing interest, the register, shall, by an instrument under
his hand, assign and convey to the assignees all the estate, real
and personal, of the bankrupt, with all his deeds, books, and
papers relating thereto; and such assignment shall relate back
to the commencement of the proceedings in bankruptcy, and
by opei ation of law shall vest the title to all such property and
estate, both real and personal, in the assignee, although the
same is then attached on mesne process, as the property of the
debtor, and shall dissolve any such attachment made within
four months next preceding the commencement of the bmnkruptcy proceedings."

182

WEST PHILADELPHIA BANK V. DICKSON.

[Sup. Ct.

After obtaining from the bankrupt his funds in Philadelphia,
the agent of the bank, Mr. Jamieson, who was also one of its
directors, went to New York, and there commenced an action in
his own name, but for the benefit of the bank, against the
bankrupt, and obtained an attachment against Randolph & Co.,
and Evans, Wharton, & Co., bankers, with whom Reakirt, the
bankrupt, had a credit of about $11,000. He obtained a judgment against Reakirt for $5,176.82, and issued an execution,
which was paid through the means of the attachment referred
to. The statute declares this attachment, if made within four
months preceding the commencement of the bankruptcy proceedings, as was this one, to be dissolved by the assignment in
bankr.uptcy. It is avoided and made of no effect, and the proceedings under it are held for naught. The money obtained by
color of it is money held for the assignee, and is recoverable by
him.
But it is contended on behalf of the bank that the money
thus obtained in each instance was the money of the bank,
that it was a case of the reclamation of its own property. If
the $5,000 obtained in Philadelphia on checks had been the
identical money received from the bank, or the fruits of that
money, or if in any manner the money could be traced or separated, this question might be raised. But, in fact, the debt
had accrued to the bank, and the money had been received
from it nearly two months before the occurrences of Feb. 6,
This money had been deposited in various banks, mixed with
the other funds of Reakirt, and all used by him at his convenience. There is not a pretence that the money obtained on the
checks was the result of the particular transactions with the
Philadelphia bank. Reakirt was a druggist, a manufacturer, a
stock speculator, and, as has occurred in other like cases, a
forger. In the last capacity he had realized the sum of
$100,000. There is no evidence where this particular money
came from, and certainly no presumption exists that it came
from the West Philadelphia Bank. The money obtained upon
the New York attachment was a part of a balance of $11,000
standing to Reakirt's credit, with no evidence of the source
whence any part of it was derived. There is literally no evidence on which to base the theory of xivlamation.

Oct. 1877.]

INSURANCE CO. v. PECHNER.

Much is said in argument on the subject of the rescission of
the contract. The contract of loan was upon the note or
notes of Reakirt, and in form was that of an ordinary loan of
money. He gave forged securities as collateral. Whether this
justified a rescission on the part of the bank of the entire contract, or whether the bank did rescind, we do not consider of
any importance. If it could have identified and followed its
money, this question might have become practical. But, as
there is an entire failure of proof in that respect, the question
Judgment affirmed.
does not arise.

INSURANCE CoMPANY v. PECH-ER.
1. A person not a citizen of the State, in a court whereof he is sued, cannot,
under the twelfth section of the Judiciary Act of 1789, remove the suit to
the Circuit Court of the United States, by reason of the citizenship of the
parties, unless his petition for removal affirmatively shows that the plaintiff
was, at the time of the commencement of the suit, a citizen of such State.
9. The right of removal is statutory; and, before a party can avail himself of it
to oust the jurisdiction of a State court, he must show upon the record that
his case is one which comes within the provisions of the statute.

ERROR to the Court of Appeals of the State of New York.
On the 1st of June, 1867, Pechner sued the Phoenix Insurance Company, a Connecticut corporation, in the Supreme Court
of Chemung County, in the State of New York, upon a policy
of insurance. On the 8th of the following month, and at the
time of entering its appearance, the company presented to the
court a petition, accompanied by the necessary security, for
the removal of the cause to the Circuit Court of the United
States. The petition, when taken in connection with the pleadings, set forth sufficiently the citizenship of the defendant in
the State of Connecticut; but as to the citizenship of the
plaintiff, the statement was, that, "as your petitioner is informed and believes, Isidor Pechner, the plaintiff in said action,
is a citizen of the State of New York." The petition bears
date June 11, 1867, and was sworn to the next day. Upon its
presentation the court approved the security, but denied the
application for removal.

