Oct. 1877.]

SHIELDS V. OHIO.

the surety was aware of the lien which the law gave as security for the payment of the tax. He also knew that, in order
to retain this lien, the government must rely upon the diligence
and honesty of its agents. If they performed their duties and
preserved the security, it inured to his benefit as well as that
of the government; but if by neglect or misconduct they lost it,
the government did not come under obligations to make good
the loss to him, or, what is the same thing, release him pro tanto
from the obligation of his bond. As between himself and the
government, he took the risk of the effect of official negligence
upon the security which the law provided for his protection
against loss by reason of the liability he assumed.
There was no error in striking out that portion of the first
defence which was objected to. It was not responsive to any
Judgment affirmed.
allegation in the petition.

SmIELDS V. OHIO.
1. The consolidation, pursuant to the statute of Ohio of April 10, 1856 (4 Curwen, 2791), of two or more railway companies works their dissolution. All
the powers and franchises of the new company which is thereby formed
are derived from that statute, and are subject to "be altered, revoked, or
repealed by the General Assembly," under sect. 2, art. 1, of the Constitution
of that State, which took effect Sept. 1, 1851.
2. The General Assembly does not, therefore, impair the obligation of a contract
by prescribing the rates for the transportation of passengers by the new
company, although one of the original companies was, prior to the adoption
of that Constitution, organized under a charter which imposed no limitation
as to such rates.

EuRRo to the Supreme Court of the State of Ohio.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
The case was argued by 111r. James 31ason for the plaintiff
in error, and by Mr. Samuel Shellabargerfor the defendant in
error.

MI. JUSTICE SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
The plaintiff in error was the conductor of a train of cars
upon the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Railway, between
Elyria and Cleveland. Ulrich was a passenger, intending to

SHIELDS V. OHmo.

LSup. Ct.

go from the former to the latter place. The intermediate distance was twenty-five miles. The fare fixed by the company
was ninety cents. Ulrich offered to pay seventy-five cents,
which was at the rate of three cents per mile, and refused to
pay more. The conductor ejected him from the train, and
was thereupon indicted in the proper local court for assault
and battery. The court instructed the jury that Ulrich had
tendered the proper sum, and that Shields had no legal right
to demand more. The case turned upon this point. It was
not claimed that the defendant was guilty, if Ulrich was in the
wrong. A verdict and judgment were given against Shields.
The case was removed by a writ of error to the Supreme Court
of the State. The judgment of the court below was affirmed.
Shields sued out this writ of error, and brought the case here
for review. The only question presented for our determination is his legal right to demand more than Ulrich offered to
pay.
A brief chronological statement with respect to the provisions
of the Constitution, and those of the laws of the State bearing
upon the subject, is necessary to a clear presentation of the
point to be decided.
1. An act passed March 2, 1846, incorporated the Junction
Railroad Company, and authorized it to build a railroad from
Cleveland to Elyria, and thence west. The eleventh section
empowered the company to charge such tolls for the transportation of freight and passengers as it might deem "reasonable."
The twenty-second section declared that after the lapse of ten
years from the completion of the road the State might reduce
the tolls "should they be unreasonably high," and might "exercise the same power at intervals of every ten years thereafter."
It was upon the road built under this act that the present controversy arose.
2. The act of March 7, 1850, incorporated the Toledo, Norwalk, and Cleveland Company, and the charter was amended
by an act of Jan. 20, 1851.
The twelfth section of the latter act declared that, in case
the Junction Company should become consolidated with the
Toledo, Norwalk, and Cleveland Company, the consolidated
company might assume the name of the Cleveland and Toledo

Oct. 1877.]

SHIELDS V. OHIO.

Railroad Company, and in that event should be governed by
sects. 9, 10, 11, 15, and 17 of the act incorporating the Junction
Company, and in other respects by the act incorporating the
Toledo, Norwalk, and Cleveland Company, and the acts amendatory thereof. The twenty-second section of the act first named,
which allowed the State, after the lapse of ten years, to regulate
the tolls of the Junction Company in the event specified, is not
one of the sections enumerated.
3. The act of March 3, 1851, was a general act, authorizing
the consolidation of railroad companies coming within its provisions. The process was prescribed with great fulness of details. Sect. 3 declared: "And such new corporation shall
possess all the powers, rights, and franchises conferred upon
such two or more corporations by the several acts incorporating
the same, or relating thereto respectively, and shall be subject
to all the duties imposed by such acts, so far as the same may
be consistent with the provisions of this act."
4. The Constitution of Ohio of 1851 took effect on the Ist
of September in that year. It declared that "no special privileges shall ever be granted that may not be altered, revoked,
or repealed by the General Assembly." Art. 1, sect. 2. "The
General Assembly shall pass no special act conferring corporate
powers." Art. 13, sect. 1. "Corporations may be formed
under general laws, but such general laws may from time to
time be altered or repealed." Art. 13, sect. 2.
5. On the 15th of June, 1853, the Junction Company be
came consolidated with the Toledo, Norwalk, and Cleveland
Company, pursuant to the provisions before mentioned of the
acts of Jan. 20, 1851, and March 3, 1851.
6. The act of April 10, 1856, 4 Curwen, 2791, authorizes
railroad companies of Ohio to consolidate with sucli companies of other States. The third section declares that such
consolidated companies respectively "shall be deemed and
taken to be one corporation, possessing within the State all the
rights, privileges, and franchises, and subject to ali the restrictions, liabilities, and duties, of such corporations of this State
so consolidated." It was provided that the old stock should
be extinguished, that a board of directors of the consolidated
company should be elected, and that new stock should be creVOL. v.

21

SHIELDS V. OHIO.

[Sup. Ct.

ated and issued to the parties entitled to it. Those refusing to
receive it were to be paid the bighest market price for their old
stock.
The seventh section enacts "that suits may be brought and
maintained against such new corporation in the courts of this
State for all causes of action, in the same manner as against
other railroad companies of this State."
7. On the 11th of February, 1869, by an agreement of that
date, the Cleveland and Toledo and the Lake Shore Railroad
Company became consolidated under the name of the Lake
Shore Railway Company.
On the 6th of April, 1869, the Lake Shore and the Michigan
Southern and Northern Indiana Railroad Companies were duly
consolidated under the name of the Lake Shore and Michigan
Southern Railway Company.
Shields, the plaintiff in error, was an employ6 of this company when he ejected Ulrich.
8. The act of April 25, 1873, provides that "any corporation
operating a railroad in whole or in part in this State may demand and receive for the transportation of passengers over said
road not exceeding three cents per mile for a distance of more
than eight miles."
The defendant in error insists that the power of the company
in the case in hand was fixed and limited by this act. The
plaintiff in error denies this, and maintains that the eleventh
section of the first-named act of 1846 is the governing authority.
In support of this view, it is further maintained that this
section was a contract, and that it was simply transferred to
each successive consolidated corporation, including, finally, the
Lake 'Shore and Michigan Southern Railway Company, and
that at the time of the occurrence here in question it was in
full force.
This renders it necessary to consider the legal status and
character of the new corporation. In the present state of the
law, a few remarks upon the subject will be sufficient.
The legislature had provided for the consolidation. In each
case, before it took place, the original companies existed and
were independent of each other. It could not occur without

Vet. 1877.]

SHIELDS V. OHIO.

their consent. The consolidated company had then no existence. It could have none while the original corporations subsisted. All - the old and the new - could not coexist. It
was a condition precedent to the existence of the new corporation that the old ones should first surrender their vitality and
submit to dissolution. That being done, eo instanti the new
corporation came into existence. But the franchise alone to
be a corporation would have been unavailing for the purposes
in view.
There is a material difference between such an artificial
creation and a natural person. The latter can do any thing
not forbidden bylaw. The former can do only what is authorized by its charter. Railroad Company v. Harris, 12 Wall.
65. It was, therefore, indispensable that other powers and
franchises should be given. This was carefully provided for.
The new organization took the powers and faculties designated
in advance in the acts authorizing the consolidation,.-no more
and no less. It did not acquire any thing by mere transmission. It took every thing by creation and grant. The language was brief, and it was made operative by reference. But
this did not affect the legal result. A deed inter partes may
be made as effectual by referring to a description elsewhere as
by reciting it in full in the present instrument. The consequence is the same in both cases.
If the argument of the learned counsel for the plaintiff in
error be correct, the constitutional restrictions can be readily
evaded. Laws may be passed at any time, enacting that all
the valuable franchises of designated corporations antedating
the Constitution shall, upon their dissolution, voluntary or
otherwise, pass to and vest in certain newly created institutions
of the like kind. The claim of the inviolability of such franchises would rest on the same foundation as the affirmation in
the present case. The language of the Constitution is broad
and clear, and forbids a construction which would permit such
a result.
When the consolidation was completed, the old corporations
were destroyed, a new one was created, and its powers were
"granted" to it, in all respects, in the view of the law, as if
the old companies had never existed, and neither of them had

SHIELDS V. OHIO.

[Sup. Ot.

ever enjoyed the franchises so conferred. The same legislative
will created and endowed the new corporation. It did one as
much as the other. In this respect, there is no ground for any
distinction.
These views are sustained by several well-considered cases
exactly in point. One of them embodies the unanimous judgment of this court. Clearwater v. XIeredith, 1 Wall. 25; LTIcM11ahanv.-"orrison, 16 Ind. 172; The State of Ohio v. Sherman,
22 Ohio St. 411 ; Shields v. The State of Ohio, 26 id. 86.
The constitutional provision that "no special privileges or
immunities shall ever be granted that may not be altered, revoked, or repealed by the General Assembly," entered into the
acts under which the consolidations were made, and rendered
the corporations created and the franchises conferred subject
to repeal and alteration, just as if they had been -expressly
declared to be so by the act. The act of 1873, in the particular in question, was a legitimate exercise of the reserved power
of alteration, and was, therefore, valid. -Parkerv. The Metropolitan Railroad Co., 109 Mass. 506.
Another branch of the argument of the counsel for the plaintiff in error calls for some further remarks.
It is urged that the franchise here in question was property
held by a vested right, and that its sanctity, as such, could not
be thus invaded. The answer is consensus facit jus. It was
according to the agreement of the parties. The company took
the franchise subject expressly to the power of alteration or
repeal by the General Assembly. There is, therefore, no ground
for just complaint against the State.
Where an act of incorporation is repealed, few questions of
difficulty can arise. Equity takes charge of all the property
and effects which survive the dissolution, and administers them
as a trust fund, primarily for the benefit of the creditors. If
any thing is left, it goes to the stockholders. Even the executory contracts of the defunct corporation are not extinguished.
Carranv. State of Arkansas, 15 How. 304.
The power of alteration and amendment is not without limit.
The alterations must be reasonable; they must be made in
good faith, and be consistent with the scope and object of the
act of incorporation. Sheer oppression and wrong cannot be

Oct. 1877.]

SHIELDS V. OIO.

inflicted under the guise of amendment or alteration. Beyond
the sphere of the reserved powers, the vested rights of property of corporations, in such cases, are surrounded by the
same sanctions and are as inviolable as in other cases. Two
authoritative adjudications throw a strong light from opposite directions upon this subject. We cite them only for
the purpose of illustration. In Miller v. -.
. & B. Rail
road Co., 21 Barb. (N. Y.) 513, the legislature, under the reserved power of alteration, required the company which had
been previously incorporated to construct a highway across their
road. The work was expensive, and of no benefit to the company. The act imposing the burden was held to be void.
in Mayor
Aldermen of Worcester v. Norwich & JForcester R. R. Co. and Others, 109 Mass. 103, the legislature had
passed an act requiring the railroad companies therein named
to unite in a passenger station in the city of Worcester (the
place to be fixed as provided), to extend their tracks in the
city to the Union station, and, after the extension, to discontinue
parts of their existing locations. The act was held to be constitutional and valid, being a reasonable exercise of the right
reserved to the legislature to amend, alter, or repeal the charters of those companies. See also Te Commonwealth v. -Essex
Conipany, 13 Gray (Mass.), 239, and Creasev. Babcock, 23 Pick.
(Mass.) 334.
It is unnecessary to pursue the subject further in this case.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE FrELD and Mit. JUSTICE STRONG dissented.

MR. JUSTICE STRONG. I dissent from the judgment in this
case.
I agree that, by the consolidation effected under the statutes,
a new corporation was created, with the powers and restrictions
of the constituent corporations. I agree, therefore, that the
legislature reserved the power to repeal, alter, or amend the
charter. But I deny that under this reserved power it was
competent for the legislature to take away the right given ta
the company to charge such freight and tolls as the directors
might deem reasonable, while at the same time continuing the

INSURANCE CO. V. WOLFF.

[Sup. CL.

company in existence, subject to all the duties imposed upon
it. Such an alteration is taking away the property of the company without compensation, as much as would be taking away
its lands.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE did not sit in this case, nor
take any part in deciding it.

INSURANCE COMPrT

Y V. WOLFF.

1. A took out a policy of insurance upon the life of her husband. The premium
was payable annually on the first day of November. The policy stipulated
for the payment of the amount of the insurance within sixty days after due
notice and proof of the death of the insured, subject, however, to certain
express conditions. One of these conditions provided, that, if the premiums
were not paid on or before the days mentioned for their payment, the company should not be liable for the sum insured, or any part of it, and that the
policy should cease and determine. Another condition provided, that, if the
insured resided in any part of the United States south of the 33d degree
of north latitude, except in California, between the 1st of July and the
1st of November, without the consent of the company previously given in
writing, the policy should be null and void. The policy declared that
agents of the company were not authorized to make, alter, or discharge
contracts, or waive forfeitures; but the company, notwithstanding this provi'sion, sent renewal receipts signed by its secretary; and their use, when
countersigned by its local manager and cashier, was subject enthely to
the judgment of its local agent. It was his habit to give such receipts
whenever the premiums were paid after the time stipulated. His mode of
dealing with persons taking out policies at the local olce, his use of renewal
receipts, his acceptance of premiums after the day on which they were payable, were all known to the home company, and it retained the premiums
thus received. The insured died at the city of New Orleans on the l1th of
November, 1872. Between the 1st of July and the 1st of November of that
year he had resided at that city, which is south of the 33d degree of north
latitude, without the knowledge or the previous consent in writing of the
company; and the annual premium due at the latter date was not paid
until ten days thereafter. A friend then paid it to the agent, and took from
him a renewal receipt, but made no mention of the residence of the insured, who died the same day from yellow fever contracted in that district.
The agent, on learning the fact, at once informed the company, and was
immediately instructed by telegraph to tender the premium to the party
paying, and demand the receipt. He did so; but the tender was not accepted, nor the receipt surrendered. Held, 1. That the company, by the
agent's receipt of the premium, waived the forfeiture for non-payment at
the stipulated time, but not the forfeiture incurred by the residence of

