INSURANCE

Co. v. RODEL.

(-Sup. Cf.

benzole, naphtha, camphene, spirit gas, burning fluid, turpen.
tine, phosgene, or any other inflammable liquid, shall not be
stored, used, kept, or allowed on the premises insured (that is,
in the cars or conveyances employed), either permanently or
temporarily, for sale or otherwise. The petroleum referred to
in the excepting clause must, therefore, have been some other
than such as might be carried by the assured, or on the conveyances used by them. Collisions of express trains with petroleum-oil trains, and the consequent frightful destruction of
property and life by fire, had occurred before these policies
were issued, and manifestly the contracting parties intended to
take out of the risk assured the damages which might result
from such a possible catastrophe.
We are, therefore, led to the conclusion that the loss sustained by the plaintiff was not covered by the policies, and
that the Circuit Court erred in charging the jury to return a
verdict against the defendants.
Judgment reversed.
INSURANCE

C01PANY v. RODEL.

1. By a policy upon the life of A., for the benefit of his wife, an insurance company promised to pay her a certain sum, "for her sole and separate use and
benefit, ninety days after due notice and satisfactory evidence of the death
of the said A., and of the just claim of the assured (or proof of interest, if
assigned or held as security), under this policy, has been received and approved by the company." Held, that the words "just claim of the assured"
have reference to her claim or title to the policy, and not to tile justness of
her cause of action thereon.
2. A fact, disclosed by the proofs of the death of the insured furnished to the
company, which might be set up as a defence to a suit on the policy, does
not derogate from their sufficiency, nor bar the bringing of such suit.
8. Where a policy provides that it shall be void if the insured shall "die by his
own hand," the court should not take from the jury, as insufficient to sustain, a recovery, evidence tending to show that he was insane when he committed the act which caused his death. The weight of the evidence is for
the jury to pass upon, although the court may, in its discretion, express its
opinion thereon.
4. The testimony of ordinary persons as to the conduct, manner, and appearance
of the insured, and to the impressions thereby made upon them, is competent to go to the jury upon the question of his insanity.
5. The charge of the court below upon that question, being in the language sanctioned and approved in Life Insurance Company v. Terry, 15 Wall. 580, was
not erroneous.

Oct. 1877.]

INSURANCE CO. V. RODEL.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Missouri.
This was an action on a policy, issued by the Charter Oak
Life Insurance Company, upon the life of Emil G. Rodel, for
the benefit of his wife, the plaintiff below. The policy was
dated June 25, 1873, and contained a promise to pay to the
plaintiff, "for her sole and separate use and benefit, ninety
days after due notice and satisfactory evidence of the death of
the said Emil G. Rodel and of the just claim of the assured
(or proof of interest, if assigned or held as security), under
this policy, has been received and approved by the company."
It further contained, among other conditions, the following:
that, in case the said Emil G. Rodel should "die by his own
hand," the policy should be void. It was conceded that he
died on the fifth day of December, 1873, from the effects of
poison administered by his own hand; and this fact was set
up in the answer, by way of defence: but the plaintiff in her
replication averred that he was insane at the time, and not in
possession of his mental faculties, and not responsible, in consequence, for his act; and denied that he committed suicide or
died by his own hand,-within the meaning and intention of the
policy. Whether the deceased was insane or not when he
took the poison was the principal issue in the cause. The
company, however, in its answer, made another issue, by denying that it had ever received due notice and satisfactory evidence of the death of Rodel and of the just claim of the
plaintiff under the policy; averring that the only proof and
notice it had received from the plaintiff of Rodel's death, and
of her claim under the policy, had been and was to the effect
that "said Emil G. Rodel committed suicide at about 6.35
o'clock, P.L, Friday, Dec. 5, 1873, in a saloon on north-east
corner of Eleventh and Market Streets, in the city and county
of St. Louis., Mo., by taking poison," as appeared from the
certificate of the coroner accompanying and making part of said
notice and proof received by the company, without any other
proof of the death or of the circumstances thereof. The plaintiff in her replication averred, as she had done in her petition,
that due notice and proof of his death and of her claim had
been given, according to the terms of the policy.

INSURANCE CO. V. RODEL.

[Sup. Ct.

On the trial, the plaintiff first put in evidence the policy,
and the proofs of death which had been served on the company. The latter were in the usual form, but accompanied by
the coroner's certificate, stating the cause of death as alleged
in the answer. They were objected to as insufficient, the company contending that, by the policy itself, satisfactory notice
and proof of death and of the just claim of the assured was a
condition precedent to the right of demanding payment, and,
consequently, to the right of bringing suit on the policy.
The court overruled the objection and admitted the evidence,
and the company excepted.
There was a verdict and judgment for the plaintiff for
$5,130; whereupon the company brought the case here.
The other facts in the case, and the instruction given and
those refused, are set forth in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Samuel Knox for the plaintiff in error.
The proofs of death and of the claim of the plaintiff below,
furnished the company, are wholly insufficient to charge it in
this action. The requirements of the policy in that respect
are a condition precedent, and must be strictly complied with.
Bliss, Life Ins. (2d ed.), sect. 257; May, Ins., sect. 465;
O'Beilly v. GuardianMut. Life Insurance Co., 60 N. Y. 169;
Taylor v. .,tna Life Insurance Co., 13 Gray (Mass.), 434;
IWoodfin v. Asheville JTut. Life Insurance Co., 6 Jones (N. C.),
L. 558; Columbia Insurance Co. v. Lawrence, 2 Pet. 25;
Campbell v. Charter Oak Fire and Marine Insurance Co., 10
Allen (Mass.), 213 ; -Edgerly v. Farmers' Insurance Co., 43
Iowa, 587 ; Johnson v. Phcenix Insurance Co., 112 Mass. 49.
The plaintiff herself notified the defendant that the insured
died by his own hand; yet she failed to furnish with the
preliminary proofs, as to her just claim under the policy, the
slightest evidence that at the time of the suicide he was so far
insane as to relieve his act from the consequences provided in
the policy.
The company was therefore justified in refusing to pay, upon
evidence neither satisfactory nor sufficient to show any thing
except that the company was not liable upon the policy, and
that the suit could not be maintained. Insurance Company v.
Newton, 22 Wall. 32 ; Campbell v. Charter Oak Fire and Marine

Oct. 1877.]

INSURANCE Co. v. RODEL.

Insurance Co., supra; Braunsteinv. Accidental Death Insurance
Co., 1 B. & S. 782; 1 Greenl. Evid., sect. 2.
The court erred in refusing to direct a verdict for the defendant at the close of the plaintiff's case. 2 Greenl. Evid., sects. 372,
373; Bliss, Life Ins. (2d ed.), sect. 367 ; 2 Bishop, Cr. Proc.
(2d ed.), sects. 669-673 ; Coffey v. Home Life Insurance Co.,
35 N. Y. Sup. Ct. 314 ; Weed v. Mutual Benefit Life Insurance
Co., id. 386 ; Knickerbocker L fe Insurance Co. v. Peters,42 Md.
414; 31erritt v. Cotton States Life Insurance Co., 55 Ga. 103 ;
McClure v. Mut. Life Insurance Co., 55 N. Y. 651; Ray, Med.
Jur. of Ins. (5th ed.), sect. 488; 2 Taylor, Med. Jur. (2d ed.)
637; Phadenhauer v. Germania Life Insurance Co., 7 Heisk.
(Tenn.) 567; Fowler v. Mut. Life Insurance Co., 4 Lans.
(N. Y.) 202; Moore v. Connecticut Mut. Life Insurance C.,
4 Bigl. L. Ins. R. 138; Coverston v. Connecticut Hut. Life
Insurance Co., id. 169; American Life Insurance Co. v. Isett's
Adm'r, 74 Pa. St. 167; Borradaile v. Yunter, 5 Sco. N. R,
418; Dzufaur v. Professional Life Assurance Co., 25 Beav. 599
State v. Stickley, 41 Iowa, 232; State v. Felter, 25 id. 67
-Deanv. American Mut. Life Insurance Co., 4 Allen (Mass.),
96 ; -De Gogorzav. Knickerbocker Life Insurance Co., 65 N. Y.
232; Gay v. Union Mut. Life Insurance Co., 9 Blatchf. 142,
Hathaway v. .National Life Insurance Co., 48 Vt. 335; E-qui
table Life Assurance Society v. Paterson,41 Ga. 338; Commonwealth v. llMosler, 4 Pa. St. 264; Cooper v. Massachusetts Mut.
Life Insurance Co., 102 Mass. 227; Terry v. Life Insurance
Company, 1 Dill. 403 ; Van Zandt v. Mutual Benefit Life Insurance Company, 55 N. Y. 169; St. Louis Life Insurance Co. v.
Graves, 6 Bush (Ky.), 268; Insurance Company v. Terry, 15
Wall. 580; Breasted v. Farmers' Loan and Trust Co., 4 Hill
(N. Y.), 73 ; BEasterbrookv. Union Mutual Life Co., 54 Me. 224.
Whether there is any evidence, or, if there is, whether it is
sufficient to sustain the burden of proof on any issue, is always
a question of law for the court. Pleasantsv. Fant, 22 Wall.
116; Inprovement Coompany v. M1unson, 14 id. 442; Schuchardt
v. Allens, I id. 3t 9 ; Commissioners, &c. v. Clark, 94 U. S. 284.
The judgment should be reversed, because of the manifest
error committed by the court in refusing the several instructions to the jury requested by the defendant. 1 Greenl. Evid.,

INSURANCE

Co. v.

RODEL.

[Sup. Ok.

sect. 2; Insurance Company v. Newton, 22 Wall. 32; Campbell
v. Charter Oak Fireand 211arineInsurance Co., 10 Allen (Mass.),
213; Braunstein v. Accidental Death Insurance Co., 1 B. & S.
782; 'FanZandt v. .lut. Benefit Life Insurance Co., 55 N. Y.
169; McClure v. Hut. Life Insurance Co., id. 651; Fowler v.
Same, 4 Lans. (N. Y.) 202; 2Aferrittv. Cotton States Life Insurance Co., 55 Ga. 103.
The charge of Mr. Justice Miller, in Terry v. Life insurance
Co., 1 Dill. 1, was sustained in 15 Wall. 580, on the ground
that it was applicable to the case made by the evidence. But
it will not be contended that this court held that such a charge
would be proper in every case, or provide the full and complete test of the effect of suicide under all the changing circumstances of each particular case, on policies of life insurance,
where, perhaps for the double purpose of rescuing the memory
of the dead from obloquy, and of abstracting from the coffers
of a corporation a part of its wealth, it is claimed that the
deceased came to his death through insanity.
A charge, giving statements of law, however unexceptionable
as abstract propositions, is erroneous, if they are not applicable to
the case, as they tend to mislead the jury. Clarke v. Dutcher,
9 Cow. (N. Y.) 674; Tardell v. Hughes, 3 Wend. (N. Y.)
418 ; Beaver v. Taylor, 1 Wall. 637 ; United States v. Brietling,
20 How. 252; Goodman v. Simonds, id. 343; -Dubois v. Lord,
.5 Watts (Pa.), 49; Haines v. Stouffer, 10 Pa. St. 363.
Mr. John D. S. Dryden, contra,
The court below did not err in overruling the objection of
the defendant to the proofs of death. The court was, in effect,
asked to decide, as matter of law, that suicide absolutely
avoided the liability of the company, thus determining the
whole issue without evidence of the condition of the insured as
to sanity or insanity at the time of his death. The court was
also asked to decide that it rested with the defendant alone to
determine its responsibility, by saying what was or what was
not satisfactory proof of death.
No objection was made to the proofs of death other than that
they showed that the insured had committed suicide.
The court did not err in overruling the defendant's request to
take from the jury the evidence on the question of the insanity

Oct. 1877.]

INSURANCE Co. v. RODEL.

of the insured. If there is any evidence, it must go to the jury.
Brown v. Lozalere, 44 Mo. 383; .Routsong v. Pacific Railroad
Company, 45 id. 236; _lfeFarland v. Bellows, 49 id. 311.
Nor was there error in the refusal of the court to charge as
requested by the defendant, or in the charge as given. Life
Insurance Company v. Terry, 15 Wall. 580.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
We think there was no error in the ruling of the court below
admitting evidence of the proofs of death, which had been served
on the defendant. Of course, the company could not justly
contend that it might arbitrarily object to the sufficiency of
the proofs; but it had an undoubted right to demand and insist upon such proofs as the law would adjudge to be reasonable
and satisfactory. The objection to those furnished was, that,
whilst otherwise sufficient as proofs of the death of the insured,
they disclosed at the same time a cause of death which exempted the company from liability; and hence could not be
said to be sufficient proof of "the just claim of the assured" as
well as of the death of Rodel. It requires but a moment's inspection of the policy to perceive that the clause in question,
so far as it requires notice "of the just claim of the assured,"
had reference to her claim or title to the policy, and not to the
justness of her cause of action thereon. This is the fair and
natural interpretation of the words; but it is placed beyond
question by the superadded words which follow in parenthesis.
The entire clause is, " due notice and satisfactory evidence
of the death of the said Emil G. Rodel, and of the just claim
of the assured (or proof of interest, if assigned or held as security)." As the question of interest in the policy is not now at
issue, it only remains to inquire whether the proofs were sufficient in regard to the death of the insured. Of this, it seems
to us, there can be no doubt. Proof of death was all that was
required. This was given, and does not appear to have been
objected to. If the proofs also disclosed facts of which the defendant could avail itself as a defence to an action on the
policy, this would not derogate from the sufficiency of the
proofs as proofs of death. But whilst the disclosure of such

INSURANCE Co. v. RODEL.

[Sup. Ct.

facts might well suggest to the company the propriety of refusing payment and standing suit, it would be no bar to the bringing of a suit; otherwise, no suit could ever be brought until
the parties had gone through an extra-judicial investigation
resulting fav6rably to the assured.
The plaintiff next proceeded to examine witnesses respecting the condition of the deceased's mind at the time of his
death; and the evidence is all spread upon the record. When
the plaintiff rested, the defendant moved that the jury be instructed to render a verdict for the defendant on the ground
that the evidence of the plaintiff was insufficient to sustain a
recovery. This motion was also overruled, and an exception
was taken. It is hardly necessary to say, that, if there was any
evidence tending to prove that the deceased was insane when
he took the poison which caused his death, the judge was not
bound to, and indeed could not properly, take the evidence from
the jury. The weight of the evidence is for them, and not for
the judge, to pass upon. The judge may express his opinion
on the subject, and in cases where the jury are likely to be
influenced by their prejudices, it is well for him to do so; but
it is entirely in his discretion. Draeely v. Gregg, 8 Wall. 242 ;
Hickman v. Jones, 9 id. 197; Barney v. Schmeider, id. 248;
Brown v. Lozalere, 44 Mo. 383; Roustong v. Bailroad Company,
45 id. 236; lile~arlandv. Bellows, 49 id. 311; Consequa's Case,
Pet. C. 0. 225 ; 1J'Lanahanv. Universal Insurance Co., 1 Pet.
170; Tracy v. Swartwout, 10 id. 80; Gainesv. -Dunn,14 id. 322;
Mitchell v. Harmony, 13 How. 131; 9 Pet. 541; 2 id. 137.
Whatever may be our opinion as to the weight of the evidence given by the plaintiff in this case, it cannot be disputed
that there was at least some evidence of Rodel's insanity. Besides the tedious and painful details of his conduct, manner,
and looks given by his wife and others, evincing great strangeness and total change in his manner, there is this positive testimony of his sister-in-law, Emma Millentz. To the question
put to her by the court, "How did he look and act the last
week ?" she answered, "Well, I thought he looked like he was
insane." The court asked her what she meant by that, why
she thought so; to which she replied, "Because he used always
to be so kind; when a person came he would get up, he was

Oct. 1877.]

INSURANCE

Co. v.

RODEL.

always gallant and polite, and toward the last he looked straight
before him, - staring straight before him; before, he was very
pleasant and polite, but towards the last he would not notice
anybody when they came in at all; also, he walked entirely
different. He looked as if confused in his mind. lie did not
seem to know what to answer if any person asked him a question." And on cross-examination she said: "I mean by insane
that he was crazy, and that he always looked straight before
him, staring, and before that he had always been happy and
joyful. I do not know what to say that I mean by ' crazy.'
The other symptoms of being insane or crazy which he manifested were that his whole appearance seemed to be changed,
and in his personal habits he seemed to neglect himself. His
hair was unkempt, standing on end, and in his attire he was
untidy, whereas before he was very accurate in every thing.
These are the only reasons I have for supposing that he was
not in his right mind, and because he always looked so straight
before him, staring."
Lewis Baum, another witness, a notary public, who saw
Rodel almost every day, testifies that he came into his office
about two o'clock of the day on which he died; and he adds:
"The very moment he stepped in I was surprised in seeing
him, having known him long before, and knowing that be had
always been a very jovial and lively young man ; good associate
in company. He came in like he was in a great state of excitement. I did not know what it was, though. He had a little
business with me, and then he left. Well, he looked to me a
different man altogether; he was in a great state of excitement.
His eyes looked-well, I cannot describe it now exactly, but
he looked like a man who is out of his mind altogether." And
on a rigid cross-examination he adhered to this view: "the
impression he made on me was such that I said to myself, the impression on me was that that man was not in his right
mind."
Although such testimony from ordinary witnesses may not
have great weight with experts, yet it was competent testimony,
and expressed in an inartificial way the impressions which are
usually made by insane persons upon people of ordinary under
standing.

INSURANCE

Co.

v. IR0DEL.

[Sup. Ct.

We think there was no error in the refusal of the judge to
give the instruction requested.
When the evidence was closed, the defendant's counsel proposed various instructions to the jury. We will pass oier those
which relate to the alleged insufficiency of notice and proof of
death, which have been already considered, and those which
were substantially adopted by the judge, or on which no errors
have been assigned. The following request and another of
substantially the same purport were refused; namely, that the
plaintiff could not recover if the assured knew that the act
which he committed would result in death, and deliberately
did it for that purpose. An additional request was made to
charge that a certain letter, written evidently under great excitement by Rodel to his wife on the day of his death, apprising her of his intention to destroy himself, and his reasons for
so doing, based upon his pecuniary troubles and anticipated
exposures, bore evidence of coolness and deliberation, and, of
itself, afforded presumptive evidence of sanity at the time when
it was written. This request was also refused.
The judge, after stating that the burden of proving the insanity of the deceased was on the plaintiff, charged the jury as
follows :"It is not every kind or degree of insanity which will so far
excuse the party taking his own life as to make the company
insuring liable; to do this, the act of self-destruction must have
been the consequence of insanity, and the mind of the deceased
must have been so far deranged as to have made him incapable of
using a rational judgment in regard to the act which he was committing. If he was impelled to the act by an insane impulse,
which the reason that was left him did not enable him to resist, or
if his reasoning powers were so far overthrown by his mental condition that he could not exercise his reasoning faculties on the act
which he was about to do, the company is liable. On the other
hand, there is no presumption of law, prima facie or otherwise, that
self-destruction arises from insanity; and you will remember a great
many jurors were excused from the panel because they thought the
law was otherwise; therefore, you will bear in mind that there is no
presumption, prima facie or otherwise, that self-destruction arises
from insanity; and if you believe from the evidence that the deceased, although excited or angry or disturbed inmind, formed a

Oct. 1877.]

INSURANCE CO. v. RODEL.

determination to take his own life, because in the exercise of his
usual reasoning faculties he preferred death to life, then the company is not liable, because he died by his own hand within the
meaning of the policy.
"If the insured, being in the possession of his ordinary reasoning
faculties, from anger, pride, jealousy, or a desire to escape from the
ills of life, intentionally takes his own life, the proviso attaches, and
there can be no recovery; that is, he did die by his own act. If
the death is caused by the voluntary act of the assured, he knowing
and intending that his death shall be the result of his act, and
when his reasoning faculties are so far impaired that he shall not be
able to understand the moral character or the general nature, consequence, and effect of the act he is about to commit, or when he is,
impelled thereto by an insane impulse which he has not the power
to resist, such death is not in the contemplation of the parties to,
the contract, and the insurer is liable."
The defendant's counsel excepted to the charge thus given.
This charge is in the very words of the charge sanctionedand approved by this court in the case of Life Insurance Company v. Terry, 15 Wall. 580, including an explanatory clause
of the opinion of the court in that case. We see no reason to
modify the views expressed by us on that occasion. We think,
therefore, that there was no error in the charge as given. It
follows that the judge properly refused the request to charge
that the plaintiff could not recover if the insured knew that the
act which he committed would result in death, and deliberately
did it for that purpose. Such knowledge and deliberation are
entirely consistent with his being, in the language of the charge,
"impelled by an insane impulse, which the reason that was left
him did not enable him to resist;" and are, therefore, not con-elusive as to his responsibility or power to control his actions.
The omission to charge as requested, with regard to the letter
written by Rodel, is subject to the same considerations, and may
be dismissed with only this further remark: that persons of
most decided insanity often exhibit consistency of purpose,
coolness, and even great ingenuity in the pursuit of some insane
object to which they are impelled by the diseased condition of
mind with which they are afflicted. An inspection of the
letter, however, shows that it is pervaded by a very abnormal
degree of excitement; and we think the judge did quite right,
VOL. V.
16

INSURANCE CO. V. iAVEIn.

[Sup. Ct.

even on this ground, to decline the unqualified instruction which
was requested in relation to it.
This disposes of all the errors assigned by the plaintiffs in
error, and our conclusion, therefore, is, that the judgment of
So ordered
the Circuit Court must be affirmed; and it is

N
INSURANCE CO fE'.1

v. HAvEN.

The owner in fee of land and of the buildings thereon, to whom has been issued
a policy of fire insurance, which provides that "if the interest of the assured
in the property be any other than the entire, unconditional, and sole ownership of the property for the use and benefit of the assured, or if the buildings
insured stand on leased ground, it must be so represented to the company, and
so expressed in the written part of the policy, otherwise the policy shall be
void," is entitled, upon their destruction by fire, to recover on his policy;
although, at the time it was issued, there was an outstanding lease for years
of the land to a third party, which fact was neither so represented to the company nor expressed in the written part of the policy.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. Lawrence Proudfoot for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. Bobert Hervey, contra.
MR. JUSTIcE CL=FORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Policies of fire insurance are contracts whereby the insurers
undertake for a stipulated sum to indemnify the insured against
loss or damage by fire, in respect to the property covered by
the policy, during the prescribed period of time, to an amount
not exceeding the sum specified in the written contract. Angell,
Fire and Life Ins. 43.
Insurance was effected by the plaintiffs, on the 9th of May,
1870, in the company of the corporation defendant for the
term of one year, against loss or damage by fire, to the amount
of $3,000, covering the ten buildings therein described, each
of which being insured in the sum of $8300.
It appears by the bill of exceptions that the policy was in
the usual form of policies issued by the defendant, and that it
provided that "if the interest of the assured in the property

