Oct. 1877.]

WEST ST. L. SAv. BK. v. SHAWNEE, Erc. Bi.

557

passage of the confirmatory act and previously, it was competent and should have been received, and the instruction asked
for was proper and should have been given. The refueal of
the court to receive the proof, and also to give the instraotion,
was error, for which the judgment must be reversed and a new
trial had. The proof as to subsequent possession was immaterial, if military occupation existed at that date. If such occupation then existed, the confirmation did not apply to the land,
and it continued as before the property of the United States.
Occupation of the public lands can never be adverse to the
government so as to defeat or affect in any way the title
subsequently conferred by its grant or patent. In such cases,
the doctrine declared in Gibson v. Choteau, 13 Wall. 92, applies.
Judgment reversed, and cause remanded with direction to
order a new trial.

WEST ST. Louis SAVINGS BANK v. SHAWNFM COUT
BANK.
The cashier of a bank is not, by reason of his official position, presumed to
have the power to bind it as an accommodation indorser on his individual
note; and the payee who fails to prove that the cashier, as such, had authority

to make the indorsement cannot recover against the bank.

AppEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Kansas.
Parmelee, cashier of the Shawnee County Bank, made his
individual note for $3,000, payable to the order of the West
St. Louis Savings Bank, indorsed it "G. F. Parmelee, cashier,"
and gave as collateral security a certificate of stock in the
Shawnee County Bank, issued to and owned by him. The
consideration of the note was money lent to him by the payee,
who was advised that he intended to use it to pay for his
stock in the Shawnee County Bank. He failed to pay the
note ; whereupon this suit was commenced by the payee against
him as maker, and the Shawnee County Bank as indorser, of
the note.

558

WEST ST. L. SAy. BK. v. SHAWNEE, ETC. BK.

[Sup. Ct.

The court passed a decree against Parmelee, but dismissed
the bill so far as it asked relief against the Shawnee County

Bank.
The complainant then brought the case here.
The remaining facts in the case are stated in the opinion of
the court.
Mr Henry Hitc cock for the appellant.
No counsel appeared for the appellee.
delivered the opinion of the
MRa. CHIEF JUSTICE WAiT
court.
The testimony in this case satisfies us beyond all doubt that
the liability of the Shawnee County Bank, if any liability
exists, is that of an accommodation indorser or surety for
Parmelee, its cashier, and that this was known to the St. Louis'
Bank when it made the discount. The note itself bears upon
its face the most unmistakable evidence of this fact. It is
made payable directly to the St. Louis Bank, and the Shawnee
Bank appears only as an indorser in blank of a promissory note
before indorsement by the payee and while the note is in the
hands of the maker. Such an indorsement by a bank is, to
say the least, unusual, and sufficient to put a discounting bank
upon inquiry as to the authority for making it.
But we are not left in this case to inquiry or presumption.
Both the correspondence and the testimony of the cashier of
the St. Louis Bank show conclusively that this was the understanding of the parties. Parmelee, in transmitting the note for
discount, wrote for himself, and not as cashier. He spoke of
his own note, and authorized a draft upon himself personally
for the interest. He pledged his own stock for the payment of
the note. Wernse, the St. Louis cashier, says the negotiations
opened with an application by Parmelee for a loan to enable
him to pay for his stock in the Shawnee Bank, upon the pledge
of the stock as collateral. There is not a single circumstance
tending in any manner to prove that the transaction was looked
upon as a rediscount for the Shawnee Bank, except the entries in
the books of the St. Louis Bank, and these are far from sufficient
to overcome the positive testimony as to what the agreement
actually was.

Oct. 1877.]

WEST ST. L. SAy. BK.

v. SHAWNEE, ETC. BK.

M9

This being the case, the question is directly presented as
to the liability of the Shawnee County Bank upon such an
indorsement. It is certain from the testimony that no indorse
ment of the kind was ever expressly authorized by the bank.
None of the officers, except Parmelee, and Hayward, the vicepresident, ever knew that it had been made until long after the
last discount had been obtained. The books of the Shawnee
Bank contained no evidence of such a transaction, and the
accounts of the St. Louis Bank, as rendered, gave no indication
of the actual character of the paper discounted.
Ordinarily, the cashier, being the ostensible executive officer
of a bank, is presumed to have, in the absence of positive
restrictions, all the power necessary for such an officer in the
transaction of the legitimate business of banking. Thus, he is
generally understood to have authority to indorse the commercial paper of his bank and bind the bank by the indorsement.
So, too, in the absence of restrictions, if he has procured a bona
fide rediscount of the paper of the bank, his acts will be binding, because of his implied power to transact such business;
but certainly he is not presumed to have power, by reason of
his official position, to bind his bank as an accommodation
indorser of his own promissory note. Such a transaction would
not be within the scope of his general powers; and one who
accepts an indorsement of that character, if a contest arises,
must prove actual authority before he can recover. There are
no presumptions in favor of such a delegation of power. The
very form of the paper itself carries notice to a purchaser of a
possible want of power to make the indorsement, and is sufficient to put him on his guard. If he fails to avail himself of
the notice, and obtain the information which is thus suggested
to him, it is his own fault, and, as against an innocent party, he
must bear the loss.
Decree affirmed.

