Oct. 1877.]

BUFFINGTON V. HARVEY.

BUFFINGTON v. HAnYBY.
1. The court approves the ruling in Whiting eta!. v. The Bank of the United Stats,
13 Pet. 6, and Putnam v. Day, 22 Wall. 60, that the only questions open in
a bill of review, except when it is filed on the ground of newly discovered
evidence, or contains new matter, are such as arise upon the pleadings, proceedings, and decree.
2. Should such a bill set forth the evidence in the original cause, a demurrer,
specially assigning that error alone, should be sustained, or the evidence
might, on motion, be stricken out; but a general demurrer must be overruled, if the bill shows any substantial error in the record.
8. Granting a rehearing, or granting or dissolving a temporary injunction, rests
in the sound discretion of the court, and furnishes no ground for an appeal.
4. To a bill filed by the assignee in bankruptcy to set aside, as a fraud upon creditors, a conveyance of real and personal property by the bankrupt, the latter
is not a necessary party.

APEAT from the Circuit Court of the United States ir the
Southern District of Illinois.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

31r. Thomas J.Henderson for the appellant.
No counsel appeared for the appellee.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree sustaining a demurrer to a
bill of review, and dismissing the bill, the effect of which is
to leave the decree in the original cause in full force and effect.
The only questions open for examination on this appeal are
such as were open on the bill of review, and these, as shown
in Whiting et al. v. The Bank of United States, 13 Pet. 6, and
Putnam v. Day, 22 Wall. 60, were only such as arose upon
.fhe pleadings, proceedings, and decree, without reference to
the evidence in the cause. The decision of the court upon the
-ssues of fact, so far as they depend upon the proofs, are conclusive on a bill of review. It was error, therefore, to insert
in the bill, as was done in this case, the evidence taken in the
original cause. Had this error been specially assigned, the
demurrer might have been sustained on that ground alone, or
the evidence might have been stricken out of the bill as surplusage, on motion. But as the demurrer was a general one,
if the bill of review showed any substantial error in the record,

BUFFIPKGTON V. HARVEY.

[Sup. Ct.

the demurrer should have been overruled, and the original
decree should have been opened or reversed. 2 Smith, Ch. Pr.
56, 63. A general demurrer must be overruled if- the pleading
demurred to contain any good ground to support it. It was
the duty of the court below, therefore, to inquire whether the
record, exclusive of the evidence, contained any substantial
error pointed out by the bill of review. 2 Smith, Ch. Pr. 57.
The result to which the court -came was that no such error
existed; and therefore the demurrer was sustained, and the bill
of review was dismissed.
The errors assigned to this decree are five: 1st, Because the
court sustained the demurrer; 2d, because it entered a decree
for the complainant; 3d, because it overruled a petition for a
rehearing; 4th, because it found the issues for the complainant ;
5th, because it overruled a motion to dissolve the injunction.
The three last assignments are totally inadmissible. The granting of a rehearing is always in the sound discretion of the court,
and, therefore, granting or refusing it furnishes no ground of
appeal. Steines v. Franklin County, 14 Wall. 15. The granting or dissolution of a temporary injunction stands on the
same footing. The granting of a permanent injunction is part
of the final decree, and abides the fate of the decree itself.
And as to the finding of the issues for the complainant, that, as
we have seen, is not a matter that can be examined on a bill of
review. The only assignment, therefore, which we can recognize, is the general one, that the court erred in sustaining the
demurrer to the bill of review, and entering a decree for the
complainant.
We must look, then, at the bill of review, and see whether
it points out and demonstrates any substantial error in the
pleadings, proceedings, or decree, supposing the issues of fact
to have been properly passed upon by the court. In order to
understand the force and effect of this bill, however, it will be
necessary to state the nature and objects of the original suit.
The bill in the original cause was filed on the 20th of March,
1872, by Harvey, the present appellee, as assignee in bankruptcy of one Isaac Fitzgerrel, against Titus Buffington, the
appellant, to set aside a conveyance of real and personal property made by the bankrupt to Buffington on the thirtieth day

Out. 1877.]

BUFFINGTON V. HARVEY.

of December, 1867. It is alleged that this conveyance was made
by the bankrupt in contemplation of insolvency, to put his property out of his hands, so as to hinder and delay his creditors,
and to defeat the operation of the bankrupt law; that it was
a pretended sale, without any real consideration, though Buffington's notes were given therefor at long dates; and various
circumstances with regard to the bankrupt remaining in possession of the property and using and disposing of it as his own,
are detailed as evidence of the fraudulent intent.
To this bill the defendant filed an answer, in which he insisted on the bona fides of the transaction, endeavored to explain
the circumstances charged in the bill as evidence of fraud, and
alleged that, on a petition to have Fitzgerrel declared a bankrupt, an injunction had been issued against the defendant in
April, 1868, prohibiting him from selling or disposing of the
goods, but was afterwards dissolved, and he supposed the question of his title was settled. This answer being excepted to,
a second and third answer were filed by the defendant, going
more into detail of the circumstances of his connection with
the property, and stating that the injunction against him was
dissolved after a full hearing in June Term, 1868.
The plaintiff filed a general replication, the cause went to
proofs, and a large amount of evidence was taken. A final
decree was made on the 3d of February, 1873, by which the
conveyances in question were set aside and vacated, and the
defendant was directed to deliver up possession of the lands,
and to pay the sum of $3,891.88 to the assignee, besides costs.
A motion was made for a rehearing, and was refused, and the
bill of review was filed in October, 1873.
As before stated, this bill not only sets forth the pleadings,
proceedings, and decree in the original suit, but all the evidence
taken therein. The only errors assigned in the bill relate to
the facts as supposed to be evinced by the evidence. After
stating the pleadings, evidence, and decree, the bill proceeds
thus:
" Your orator would further represent unto your Honor that he
believes that there is manifest error in finding the issues for the complainant on the foregoing evidence; that said evidence is insufficient to sustain the said decree because of want of proof to sustain

BUFFINGTON V. HARVEY.

[Sup. GIC.

the bill, and that the bill should have been dismissed; also, because
the evidence shows that more than two years had elapsed friom the
making of the deed and before the bill was' filed, and that, therefore,
by the Statute of Limitations, the bill could not be sustained.
"And your orator would further assign for error the fact that the
decree in this cause made gives a judgment against the defendant
for a larger sum of money by over $1,000 than there are debts
proven against the bankrupt.
"Also, the fact, shown by the evidence of Barkley and Forth,
that they had known Fitzgerrel for more than ten years, and that
they had no reason to suppose that he was insolvent or contemplated
insolvency, corroborating the evidence of Buffington, that he had
no reasonable cause to believe the said Fitzgerrel to be insolvent
when he purchased the property."
These are all the errors assigned in the bill. A bare statement of them is enough to show that the bill of review was
totally misconceived. It attempted to review the decision of
the court solely upon the facts as evinced by the evidence,
which, as we have seen, is entirely inadmissible on such a
bill.

The appellant, in his brief, insists upon the lapse of more
than two years after the cause of action accrued before the
original bill was filed, relying upon the period of limitation prescribed in the second section of the bankrupt law. Rev. Stat.
5057. But the record does not show, independently of the
evidence (and we do not know that it appears even by that),
when the cause of action did accrue. The bill shows, it is
true, that the conveyance alleged to be fraudulent was made in
December, 1867, and the bill was not filed till March, 1872;
but that is not decisive of the question. The cause of action
does not accrue to the assignee until his appointment; and
when the assignee in this case was appointed does not appear.
The bill says that the present assignee was appointed in 1871,
which is within the time of limitation. If there was a prior
assignee, the time of his appointment is not shown. Besides,
the defendant did not set up the Statute of Limitations in his
answer. We hear of this defence for the first time in the bill
of review.
The appellant also insists that the original bill was defective

Oct. 1877.]

BUFFINGTON V. HARVEY.

for want of parties in not making the bankrupt a party. This
objection is not even made in the bill of review, and was not
made in the original cause; and, if it had been made, in our
judgment it would not have been a valid objection. The bankrupt had no interest to be affected except what was represented
by his assignee in bankruptcy, who brought the suit. As to
the bankrupt himself, the conveyance was good; if set aside,
it could only benefit his creditors. He could not gain or lose,
whichever way it might be decided.
To avoid misapprehension in what we have said with regard
to the proceedings on a bill of review, it will be observed that
in this case the bill is a pure bill of review, containing no new
matter, such as an allegation of newly discovered evidence, oi
any thing else of an original character admissible in such a bill.
What we have said is specially applicable to the case before
us. Bills containing new matter, of course, are in the nature
of original bills, so far forth as such new matter is concerned,
and admit of an answer and a replication, and proceedings
appertaining to an issue of fact; but only as it relates to the
truth and sufficiency of such new matter, and the propriety of
its admission for the purpose of opening the decree in the original cause. If decided to be founded in fact, sufficient to Affect
the decree, and properly admissible, the original decree will be
opened, and, if necessary, a new hearing had; but, if not so
found, the bill of review will be dismissed, and the original
decree will stand. But even in this case, as well as in that of
a pure bill of review, the evidence in the original cause cannot
be discussed for the purpose of questioning the propriety of
the original decree as based on subh evidence. It can only be
adverted to, if at all, for the purpose of showing the relevancy
and bearing of the new matter sought to be introduced intc
the cause.
Decree affirmed.

