Oct. 1877.]

INSURANCE Co. v. LANIER.

INSURANCE ComPANY v. LAN.mR.
1. A bill of exceptions, allowed and signed or sealed by the judge, is the only
mode by which his rulings during the progress of a trial, or his charge to
the jury, can be rendered a part of the record.
2. The provisions of the Code of Georgia are in harmony with this rule.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Georgia.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Mr. Philip Phillips and Mr. William . Phillips for the
plaintiff in error.
Mr. Julianifartridgeand Mr. Rufus BE. Lester, contra.
M.

JUSTICE STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.

After careful consideration, we are all of opinion that the
record contains nothing upon which the assignments of error
can be based. The plaintiff in error complains that certain
evidence was improperly admitted, and that incorrect instruction was given to the jury; but the record does not show that
any exception was saved to the admission of evidence or to
the charge of the court. No bill of exceptions appears to have
been made up or signed. It is true that in the transcript sent
up to us it is stated that at the trial objection was made to the
reception of certain testimony of witnesses, that the objection
was overruled, and that the defendant then and there excepted
to such ruling of the court, and assigned error thereon. So the
transcript states that the judge gave substantially certain instruction to the jury, and adds, "to which portion of said
charge said defendant then and there excepted, and assigned the'
same as error." But, even if the facts occurred as certified by
the clerk, his statement that they occurred does not bring them
upon the record so as to make them the subject of review. There
is but one mode of bringing upon the record and making a part
of it the rulings of a judge during the progress of a trial, or
his charge to the jury, and that is by a bill of exceptions
allowed and sealed or signed by the judge. It is true that in
the hurry of the trial the bill is not often reduced to form and
sealed or signed. Generally an exception is only noted by the

INSURANCE

Co. v. LANIER.

[Sup. Ct.

judge at the time claimed, and it is subsequently drawn up; but it
is not a bill of exceptions until it has been sealed, or, as is now
sufficient, signed. The sealing or signature of the judge is
essential for its authentication; and it has been ruled that the
judge's notes do not constitute a bill of exceptions. They are
but memoranda from which a formal bill may afterwards be
drawn up and sealed. Pomeroy v. The Bank of Indiana,1 Wall.
592. There it was said, "When exceptions are taken to the
ruling of the court, in the course of a trial, to the jury, such an
entry is frequently made in the minutes of the case, or of the
presiding justice, as evidence of the fact, and as a means of preserving the rights of the party in case the 'verdict should be
against him, and he should desire to have the case re-examined
in the appellate tribunal; but it was never supposed that such
an entry could be of any benefit to the party unless he seasonably availed himself of the right to reduce the same to writing,
and took proper measures to have the bill of exceptions sealed
by the judge presiding at the trial, or, in other words, such an
entry in the minutes can only be regarded as evidence of the
right of the party seasonably to demand a bill of exceptions;
but it is not the same thing, and it has never been so considered
in the Federal courts. And again: " Unless an exception is
reduced to writing and sealed by the judge, it is not a bill of
exceptions, within the meaning of the statute authorizing it,
and it does not become part of the record." No such bill is
found in the present case. Where the memoranda of exceptions appearing in the transcript came from does not appear.
They are not even stated to be on the minutes or the judge's
notes.
The verdict was returned, and the judgment was signed on
the 14th of November, 1874. The transcript exhibits a paper
dated Nov. 19, 1874, called an assignment of error, signed by
the attorney of the insurance company, and filed on that
day, setting forth that in the foregoing record and proceedings
various errors appeared, and describing them. The paper ap
pears to have been served on the plaintiffs' attorney, and on
the same day it was indorsed "exceptions overruled. John
Erskine, judge." For what purpose the paper was r repared
does not clearly appear. Perhaps it was in aid of a motion

Oct. 1877.]

BLOUNT V. WINDLEY.

for a new trial, or it was intended as preparation for a writ
of error, probably the latter. But it is impossible to regard
it as a bill of exceptions taken or noted at the trial. It
refers to no exceptions then taken. On the contrary, while
it refers to objections alleged to have been made at the trial,
and assigns overruling them as error, it states that the defendant now (Nov. 19) assigns the same as error, and excepts
thereto.
We find nothing in the code of Georgia that aids the plain.
tiffs in error. The only provision that is of any importance
as bearing upon the subject is the following: "At any stage of
the cause either party may file his exception, and, if the same
be certified or allowed, it shall be entered of record in the cause;
and should the case, at its final determination, be carried by
writ of error to the Supreme Court, error may be assigned upon
such bill of exceptions." This does not differ substantially
from the provisions of the Statute of Westminster, 13 Edw. I.
c. 31. The exception must be certified or allowed as well as
filed, and it is the signature or seal of the judge that certifies or
allows it.
We are, therefore, reluctantly brought to the conclusion that
the record of this case exhibits nothing that justifies the assignments of error.
Judgment affirmed.

BLOUNT V. WN'DLEY.
1. When no rights of third parties interfere, the extent to which mutual obligations may be set off against each other, and the mode of doing it, are wholly
subject to legislative control.
2. A statute, therefore, as that of North Carolina, passed after the bank or its
commissioner had obtained a judgment, which authorizes the defendant
to set off against it the circulating notes of the bank which he procured
after the judgment, is, as between him and the bank or its commissioner,
valid, and does not impair the obligation of the contract sued on, or of the
judgment.
8. But if the rights of either creditors of the bank, or other parties interested
in the judgment, were such that they could exact payment of the judgment in lawful money, the case would be different.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of North Carolina.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

