BEARD V. BURTS.

[Sup. Ot.

BEARD V. BURTS.
1. The acts of Congress, respectively approved March 3, 1863 (12 Stat. 766),
and May 11, 1866 (14 id. 46), extend protection to all persons for acts they
committed in subordination to the military authorities engaged in conducting the war, and confer upon them the same exemption from liability to
suit which belonged to the President, the Secretary of War, and the department commanders.
2. Where a bill was filed in 1865 for an injunction against cutting wood on the
complainant's land in Tennessee, and for an account of what had been
already cut, and the defendant, answering, set up that lie had cut the wood
"as an authorized agent of the government of the United States, and for
military purposes, under the direction and authority of the military authorities," and, in further answering, pleaded that he had a right to do so, as
appeared by an order or authority from one D. V. Brown, wood agent of
the United States military railroads, authorizing him to cut wood on said
land, as follows :"KxoxnLan, TENx., May 9, 1865.
"James S. Beard is hereby authorized to cutwood for the U. S. I.R. on the lands
of Joseph Burs, John Lyle, Dillard Love, by order of the superintendpnt.
"D. V. BRowx, Wood Agent."
the court, after finding that the defendant's answer was sustained by
the proofs, entered a decree dismissing the bill, -Held, 1. That the facts so
found were conclusive upon a bill of review alleging errors apparent on the
face of the decree. 2. That it cannot be properly assumed that the paper
signed D. V. Brown was all the evidence from which the court concluded
that the defendant acted under the warrant of the military authorities of
the government. 3. That as the wood was received by them and used for
the military railroads, before operations for the suppression of the rebellion
had ceased, the paper, although in form permissive only, was a sufficient
justification and defence.

-and

ERROR to the Supreme Court of the State of Tennessee.
Mr. A. a. Riddle for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. Robert a. Ingersoll, contra.

MR. JUSTICE STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
This was a bill of review, to which a demurrer was interposed
by the defendant in the Chancery Court where it was filed;
and, after hearing, the bill was dismissed. The decree of the
Chancellor was then reversed by the Supreme Court of the
State, the demurrer was disallowed, and, without any permission
given to the defendant to answer, the decree in the original

suit, which the bill sought to have reviewed, was vacated and
annulled. The court then proceeded to decree against the

Oct. 1877.]

BEARD v. BURTS.

defendant Beard on the original cause of action, and remanded
the case to the Chancery Court for an account. An account
was accordingly ordered in that court, and a final decree was
entered against the defendant, and subsequently affirmed by
the Supreme Court. It is to this action that the present writ
of error has been sued out.
We have not before us the record of the original suit, which
was instituted in 1865, and in which a final decree against the
plaintiff was made Nov. 27, 1868. All we can know of it is
what we learn from the bill of review. From that it appears
to have been a bill for an injunction against trespass and cutting wood upon the plaintiff's land, and for an account of what
had already been cut. The defendant answered, admitting
that he had cut one hundred and fifty-five and one-third cords
of wood, and setting up in justification " that he cut it as an
authorized agent of the government of the United States, and
for military purposes, and under the direction and authority
of the military authorities." In further answer, he averred
"that he was protected by the order of the Secretary of War
and the commanding general of Tennessee."
In still further answer, he pleaded that he had a right to cut
wood on the land, as appeared by an order or authority from
one D. V. Brown, wood agent of the United States military
railroads, and directed to him, authorizing him to cut wood on
said land, as follows: "KNOXVMLE, TrNNi., May 9, 1865.
"James S. Beard is hereby authorized to cut wood fbr the U. S.
M. R. on the lands of Joseph Burts, John Lyle, Dillard Love, by
order of the superintendent.
"D. V. BRow-N, Wood .Agent."
To this answer no replication appears to have been filed; but
evidence was submitted, and, after hearing, the Chancellor found
that Beard's plea of justification under the laws of the United
States, and by military authority exercised thereunder, was sustained, and that he had acted in pursuance to such military
authority. The plaintiff's bill was, therefore, dismissed, and
no appeal was perfected.
So much is set f rth in the bill of. review, in which it is also
alleged that there i' as error in the original decree. That

BEARD

v.

BUTS.

[Sup. lot.

assigned, and the only one that requires notice, is that the pretended authority from D. V. Brown, wood agent, was void, and
gave the defendant no authority to cut the wood, as there was
no order from the commanding general of the department or
Secretary of War authorizing the same, nor any act of Congress
authorizing the trespass at the time and place when and where
committed.
Such was the case as presented to the Chancellor by the
demurrer to the bill, and such was the case submitted to the
Supreme Court on the appeal taken from the Chancellor's decree
dismissing it.
It is obvious the only important inquiry respects the validity
of the authority under which the defendant had acted. It
claimed to be a privilege or immunity under the laws of the
United States. It was found to be authentic by the Chancellor
in his original decree, and its authenticity is not denied in the
bill of review. That, therefore, is not open to debate. To
sustain a bill of review, there must be errors of law apparent
on the face of the decree, or some new matters of fact material
in themselves, and discovered after the rendition of the decree.
This is the general rule in equity, and it is the rule in Tennessee, declared to be such in the present case. The facts are not
open for a re-trial, unless the bill asserts that new evidence has
been discovered, not obtainable before the first trial by the
exercise of reasonable diligence. The conclusions of fact of
the court or Chancellor are conclusive. In view of what the
Chancellor found in the original case, it would, seem, therefore,
his conclusion, that the defendant in cutting the wood was actilig under authority from the military authorities, could not be
reviewed and set aside. It -was a conclusion of fact deduced
from evidence he had before him. But the Supreme Court,
while admitting that the original decree could not be said to
contain error of law upon its face, took the position that the
pleadings in the original cause might be looked to; and, if the
conclusions drawn from admitted facts showed error in law, a bill
of review would lie. Accordingly, the court assumed that the
paper signed "D. V. Brown, wood agent," was all the evidence
from which the Chancery Court concluded that the defendant
acted under the authority or warrant of the military authorities

Oct. 1877.]

BEARD v. BURTS.

of the government provided for by the act of Congress, and
held that 6vidence insufficient and not a justification. For this
reason the decree of the Chancery Court dismissing the bill of
review was reversed, and so, also, was the decree dismissing the
original bill.
We think this was an error. The act of Congres, of May 11,
1866, 14 Stat 46, enacted that any acts done or omitted to
be done during the rebellion by any person under and by virtue
of any order, written or verbal, general or special, issued by
the President, or Secretary of War, or by any military officer
of the United States holding the command of the department,
district, or place where such acts are done or omitted, shall, for
the purposes of defence, come within the purview of the act of
March 3, 1863. 12 id. 756. The fourth section of the latter
act made the order of the President, or under his authority, a
defence in all courts to any action for acts done or omitted to
be done under or by virtue of such order, or under color of any
law of Congress. And the second section of the act of 1866
enacted that, when the order is in writing, it shall be sufficient
to produce in evidence the original, with proof of its authenticity, or a certified copy thereof, or, if sent by telegraph, the
production of the telegram purporting to emanate from such
military officer shall be primafacie evidence of its authenticity,
or, if the original of such order or telegram is lost, or cannot
be produced, secondary evidence thereof shall be admissible, as
in other cases.
Now, that the defendant's cutting the wood was under such
an order, was, as we have seen, distinctly found as a fact by the
Chancellor, and nothing in his decree shows that he found it on
the evidence of the paper signed "D. V. Brown, wood agent,"
alone. No assumption that he did can be justified; and, if it
could be, the order, we think, was prima facie sufficient. It
purported to have been issued by a wood agent for military uses,
namely, for the use of the military railroads; and the wood cut
was received by the military authorities. It is a legitimate
presumption that agents who act for and on behalf of an army
in the field are acting under the authority of its commander;
and it is but just to the learned court to say that it made no
attempt to review the finding of the authenticity of the Brown

BEARD v. BURTS.

,[Sup. U-6.

paper. They confined their review very properly to inquiring
what was the meaning of the order, and they held it no justification of the defendant because its terms were not compulsory,
but only permissive. Their language was, "There can be no
pretence, upon the facts set forth in the pleadings, that any
such thing as military compulsion existed in the case, for the
paper only imports on its face a permission to do the act complained of ;" adding, "and even this is not license to do it emanating from any recognized military authority." Hence, said
the court, "we conclude that there is error of law in the con
clusion of the Chancellor upon the facts."
If in saying the order or permission or license did not emanate from any recognized military authority, the court meant
to be understood as itself finding a fact, the determination is
a finding without evidence, and in opposition to a finding made
on evidence confessedly conclusive. But probably the court
did not intend to be so understood.
The real question involved, and the only one the court could
consider in the case, therefore, was whether the paper was ineffective as a defence merely because it was in form permissive
only. And upon this question we are unable to concur in
opinion with the Supreme Court of the State. While it may
be conceded that permission to do an act is not compulsion,
and that the acts of March 3, 1863, and May 11, 1866, afford
no protection to those acting voluntarily and for their own
benefit, the pleadings show this to have been no such case.
The wood was cut for the military railroads, under military
authority, and it was received by the military authorities before
military operations in suppression of the rebellion had ceased.
The form of the order we regard as immaterial. The plain
purpose of the acts of Congress was to extend protection to all
persons who might act in subordination to the military authorities engaged in conducting the war. Congress purposed, we
think, to confer upon them the same exemption from liability
to suit which belonged to the President, the Secretary of War,
and the department commanders. The orders of which the
acts speak are military orders, and a large proportion of such
orders, it is well known, are merely permissive in form. They
necessarily leave much to the discretion of those to whom they

Oct. 1877.]

RAILROAD

CO.

V. JONES.

are addressed. We cannot doubt that Congress had such orders
in view, and that its action was intended to protect against civil
suits those who might do acts either commanded or authorized
by them.
The decree of the Supreme Court of Tennessee must, therefore, be reversed, and the record remitted with instructions to
reverse the last decree of the Chancellor, and direct him to disSo ordered.
miss the bill of review; and it is

RAiLRoAD COmPANY v. JONES.
1. Negligence may consist in either failing to do what, under the circumstances,
a reasonable and prudent man would ordinarily have done, or in doing what
he would not have done.
2. A. was one of a party of men employed by a railroad company in constructing
and repairing its roadway. They were usually conveyed by the company
to and from the place where their services were required, and a box-car was
assigned to their use. Although on several occasions forbidden to do so,
and warned of the danger, A., on returning from work one evening, rode on
the pilot or bumper of the locomotive, when the train, in passing through a
tunnel, collided with cars standing on the track, and he was injured. There
was ample room for him in the box-car. All in it were unhurt. Beld,
1. That, as A. would not have been injured had le used ordinary care and
caution, lie is not entitled to recover against the company. 2. That the
knowledge, assent, or direction of the agents of the company as to what he
did at the time in question is immaterial. The company, although bound
to a high degree of care, did not insure his safety.

to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
This was an action by Jones against the Baltimore and Potomac Railroad Company, to recover damages for an injury received on the road of the company. Judgment was rendered
in his favor, and the company brought the case here.
The facts are fully stated in the opinion of the court.
ERROR

Mr. Enoch Totten for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. Edward C. Carrington and Mr. Campbell Carrington,
contra.
MR. JusTICE SwAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
The defendant in error was the plaintiff in the court below
Upon the trial there, he gave evidence to the following effect:

