Oct. 1877.J

REED V. INSURANCE CO.

REED V. INSURA CE CoMPANY.
1 A policy of in-urance on a vessel at and from Honolulu, via Baker's Island, to
a port of discharge in the United States, contained a clause, "the risk to be
suspended while vessel is at Baker's Island loading." Held, in view of the
circumstances which must be supposed to have appeared to the parties at
the time of making the contract, that the meaning of the clause is that the
risk was to be suspended while the vessel was at Baker's Island for the
purpose of loading, whether actually engaged in the process of loading
or not.
2. Although a written agreement cannot be varied by proof of the circumstances
out of which it grew, and which surrounded its adoption, they may be resorted to for the purpose of ascertaining its subject-matter, and the standpoint of the parties in relation thereto.
8. Qwere, Can a demand arising out of contract be enforced by a libel in personant
in admiralty when a suit to recover it, if brought in a State court of concurrent jurisdiction, would be barred by the Statute of Limitations?
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Maryland.
The circumstances of this case, as gathered from the pleadings and evidence, particularly the agreed statement made by
the parties themselves, are substantially as follows:
In November, 1867, the libellant, Samuel G. Reed, of Boston,
was owner of the ship "Minnehaha," then lying at Honolulu, in
the Sandwich Islands, and about to sail from that place in ballast via Baker's Island, with the intention of there taking in a
cargo of guano, to a port of discharge in the United States.
Baker's Island is a small rocky island in mid-ocean, nearly
under the equator, and about two thousand miles south-westerly
from the Sandwich Islands, having no harbor or anchorage,
and only frequented for its guano. When ships arrive there,
they are moored in the open sea, in an exposed and perilous
position. The mooring is effected by means of a heavy station
ary anchor, weighing five thousand six hundred pounds, fastened
to a coral reef in about one hundred fathoms of water, to
which anchor a large buoy is attached by a heavy pendant
chain. This chain is braced by two other chains, each over a
thousand feet long, attached to anchors fastened to another
coral reef nearer to the island. By still another chain the ship
is moored to the first-mentioned pendant chain as long as she
remains at the island; and her cargo is sent aboard from the

[Sup. Ct.

REED V, INSURANCE CO.

island in small boats. The place is subject to strong currents
and heavy gales, and vessels are, in consequence of the weather,
frequently obliged to put to sea while loading.
On the 6th of January, 1868, the libellant, through a firm
of insurance brokers in New York, made application by mail
to the Merchants' Mutual Insurance Company of Baltimore
for insurance on the said ship "Minnehaha," in the following
terms:

-

"Application for insurance is hereby made by Johnson & Higgins, as agents, in the name of Samuel G. Reed, account of whom it
may concern. Loss, if any, payable to them or order. For [$5,000,
at seven per cent net] on ship IMinnehaha,' valued at $60,000, at
and from Honolulu, via Baker's Island, to a port of discharge in the
United States not east of Boston, with liberty to use Hampton
Roads for orders ;*the risk to be suspended while vessel is at Baker's
Island loading."
This application was enclosed in the following letter: cE OF JOuNSON & HIGGINS, &C.,
"OF
"87 Wall Street, New York,
"Jan. 6, 1868.
"GEOnGEu R. COALE, Esq., Secretary:
"DEAR Si, - Enclosed please find two applications for Samuel G.
Reed: viz., one on the I Minnehaha' (our companies here are averse to
Baker's Island risks, and for that reason the owners suspend the
risk while at Baker's Island loading. The Atlantic have taken a
large line on vessel and freight at seven per cent, with scrip); also,
one on the ' Guiding Star,' now loading under inspection of Captains
Ellis and Story, for underwriters. Please let us know how much
your companies will take on each, and the lowest respective rates.
Should like to hear by telegraph.
"Yours respectfully,
"JOHNsO

&

HIGGINS,

"Per TooKxE."'
In pursuance of this application, the company issued the
policy on which the present suit is brought, the operative clause
of which is in these words: "The Merchants' Mutual Insurance Company of Baltimore have
Insured, and do hereby insure, agreeably to order, Samuel G. Reed,
for account of whom it may concern, lost or not lost, at and from
Honolulu, via Baker's Island, to a port of discharge in the United

Oct. 1877.]

REED V, INSURANCE

0.

States not east of Boston, with liberty to use Hampton Roads for
orders, the risk to be suspended while vessel is at Baker's Island
loading, $5,000, upon the body, tackle, &c., of the good ship
'Minnehaha."'
The ship sailed in ballast from Honolulu the 7th of Novem.
ber, 1867, and arrived near Baker's Island on the afternoon of the
twentieth day of that month. She came to her mooring near the
island in safety; shortly after which a heavy gale and heavy
surf arose, and continued with violence until the 3d of December, when the ship parted her moorings, and was totally wrecked
and lost. At no time after her arrival at that island was it
possible to discharge ballast or receive cargo, or commence the
process of loading, or even the preparation for loading.
Proof of loss and of interest and adjustment was duly presented to the company, and payment demanded therefor and
refused.
On May 20, 1872, Reed exhibited his libel in the District
Court of the United States for the District of Maryland against
said company. That court upon hearing dismissed the cause;
and the Circuit Court having affirmed the decree, the libellant
brought the case here.
The Statute of Limitations in force in Maryland provides as
follows: "1All actions of account, actions of assumpsit or on the case, actions
of debt on simple contract, or for rent in arrears, detinue, and replevin, all actions for trespass for injuries to real or personal property, shall be commenced or sued within three years from time the
cause of action accrues."
31r. Frederick.E.Bryant and Mr. Charles B. Goodrich for
the appellant.
1. The policy covers the voyage during which the loss occurred, and the appellant is prima facie entitled to recover the
amount of such loss. The vessel was insured from Honolulu,
via Baker's Island, to her port of discharge; and the intention
of the assured and insurer that she should stop there is thus
clearly manifested.
2. The excepting clause, " the risk to be suspended while
the vessel is at Baker's Island loading," has no bearing upon

REED V. INSURANCE 00.

[Sup. Ct.

the rights of the parties; because no loading was made or
attempted. The appellee gives to that clause a broader signification than its terms justify, and makes it include a suspension of the risk before the process of loading began. If it
be ambiguous (which we deny), it should receive a construction least favorable to the company. 2 Parsons, Contr. 19
(ed. 1860); Dann v. Spurrier,8 B. & P. 399; Doe v. Dixon,
9 East, 15 ; Throcknortonv. Wacy, Plowd. 154; Melvin v. Prop.,
c. on Merrimack River, 5 Met. (Mass.) 27. Usage is never ad:nissible to contradict what is plain. Hearne v. Marine Insurance
Co., 20 Wall. 492; Haskinsv. Warren, 115 Mass. 585 ; Dickenson v. Gay, 7 Allen (Mass.), 84; Bilack v. Bactelder, 120 Mass.
171. Nothing can be plainer than that the risk was to be suspended only while the vessel was at Baker's Island loading.
Any other construction would do violence to the rule that full
force and effect should be given to every word of a written
contract. 2 Parsons, Contr. 16, 17 (ed. 1860); Evans v.
Sanders, 8 Pbrt. (Ala.) 497; Stratton v. Pettit, 16 C. B. 520.
The statement made in the letter of Johnson & Higgins,
which accompanied the application for the policy, that the New
York companies were averse to Baker's Island risks, &c.,
even if fraudulently made, which it was not, is immaterial, and
does not vitiate the insurance, as neither the appellee nor its
agent was thereby influenced to take the risk. 1 Phillips, Ins.,
sects. 539-541; Salem India-Rubber Co. v. Adams, 23 Pick.
(Mass.) 256; 1 Parsons, Mar. Ins. 465; Flinn v. Tobin, 1 Moo.
& M. 367 ; Flinn v. Headlam, 9 B. & C. 693.
In regard to the position taken on the other side, that the
lapse of time bars this suit, it is submitted that statutes of
limitation are, like all statutes in derogation of the common
law, construed strictly. This, moreover, is a proceeding in
admiralty. The act of Maryland cannot affect the status of
the appellant in a court of the United States, nor even furnish
any analogy to control the exercise of its jurisdiction. The
company has not been injured by delay, and sustaining the
bill will not produce public inconvenience. The imputed laches,
therefore, furnish no legal or equitable ground for depriving
him of his right to a determination of the case upon its merits.
Pickeringv. Lord Stamford, 2 Ves. Jr. 583; Allore v. Jewell,

Oct. 1877.]

REED V. INSURANCE CO.

94 U. S. 506; Bingham v. Wilkins, Crabbe, 50; Brown v.
,Jones, 2 Gall. 477; Willard v. Dorr, 3 Alas. 95; T7e Key
West, 14 Wall. 653.
Mr.Joh i. Thomas, contra.
The letter of Johnson & Higgins to the agent of the appellee
was intended to produce, and did produce, on his mind the
impression that the New York companies had excluded the
risks of Baker's Island by suspensions coextensive with that
mentioned in the application. If they had not, the policy was
obtained by misrepresentation, and is null and void. 1 Parsons,
Mar. Ins. 409, 410.
The policy without the suspending clause would not have
covered the vessel at Baker's Island, but only during her voyage
via that island. When property is intended to be covered by
a marine insurance at a place, not constituting a part of the
voyage, apt and express words adequate to that purpose are
always used; as, for example, "at and from," "to, at, and
from," "to, while there, and thence," "with liberty to touch at,"
"with liberty to touch and stop at," "with liberty to touch and
load at," &c. 1 Phillips, Ins., sects. 928, 1005, 1014; 2 Parsons, Mar. Ins. 16, and notes; Park, Ins. 388; Barber v.
Fleming, 5 Law Rep. Q. B. 59; Stitts v. Wardell, 2 Esp. 610;
Sheriff v. Potts, 5 id. 96; United States v. The Paul Shearman,
1 Pet. C. Ct. 98-104; Cross v. Shuttliffe, 2 Bay (S. C.), 220.
The words "via Baker's Island" are descriptive of the voyage. Without them the vessel would have been obliged to
pursue the accustomed route. Passing that island, if unusual
and unnecessary, and, a fortiori, stopping, loading, or even
touching there, would have been a deviation, causing a forfeiture
of the policy. The words suspending the risk, "while at
Baker's Island loading," were introduced to limit and not enlarge the operation of the instrument. If the intention had
been to suspend the risk "while loading," the collocation of
them would have been "while loading at Baker's Island."
Place is the controlling idea of the words as used; "loading"
is subordinate. It indicates the purpose of being at the place,
not the terms of the risk. Devoux v. J'Anson, 5 Bing. N. C.
539.
If the construction here contended for is not the natural one,

REED V. INSURANCE C .

L;Sup. Ot.

looking at the policy alone, it is proper to invoke, in aid of its
interpretation, the letter enclosing the application, and therefore a art of it. Looking at the entire instrument, the object
sought to be accomplished, and all the circumstances of the
case, it seems impossible to resist the conclusion that the words
in the clause were employed to describe the place at which
the risk was to be suspended, and the purpose for which the
vessel was to be there, without reference to the mode in
-which her crew might be employed. Courts have gone so
far in this line of interpretation as to decide, that, although
the literal and grammatical construction of a policy would
make it attach only on goods "at" a designated place, "it may
attach although the ship be at another place, if the policy
and all the circumstances make it certain that the name of
the place is either surplusage or a mere term of description."
2 Parsons, Mar. Ins. 45.
If the name of a place can be so rejected, for the purpose of
carrying into effect the intention of the parties, why, on the
same principle, may not a word designating only the contemplated employment of the crew at a place be rejected? Id. 50.
Exceptions in a policy must always be construed according
to the actual intention of the parties, so as to carry the contract into effect. 1 Parsons, Mar. Ins. 64, note 1; id. 623;
Cross v. Shuttliffe, 2-Bay (S. C.), 23; Yeaton v. PYry, 5 Cranch,
885. When the policy was issued, it is clear that neither
Johnson & Higgins nor the appellant considered that it covered the vessel when at the island, whether she was engaged
in loading or not. If there is any doubt as to the true meaning of the instrument, their construction of it, concurring
with that of the appellee, is entitled to great and conclusive
weight. Railroad Company v. Trimble, 10 Wall. 367. Resort
may be properly had to the testimony of experts to aid in interpreting the clause of exemption. 1 Parsons, Mar. Ins. 77, 83,
627, 628; Salmon Falls Man. Co. v. Goddard, 14 How. 447;
Grey v. ifarper, 1 Story, 574; Shaw v. Wilson, 9 Cl. & Fin.
555; Smith v. Wilson, 3 Barn. & Ad. 728; Williams v. Wood,
16 Md. 251; lMerehants' Bank v. State Bank, 10 Wall. 667;
2 Taylor, Evid., p. 1009, 1010, sects. 1060, 1062, 1068;
1 Greenl. Evid., sects. 280-282.

Oct. 1877.]

REED V. INSURANCE

CO.

This suit, when brought, was barred by the Statute of Limitations of Maryland. 1 Md. Code, p. 395.
In cases of concurrent jurisdiction, courts of equity adopt
the period of limitation prescribed for courts of law. Lewis v.
Marshall, 5 Pet. 470; Peyton v. Smith, id. 485; liller v.
MIntyre, 6 id. 61; Bank of United States v. Daniel, 12 id. 56;
LElmendo~ff v. Taylor, 10 Wheat. 152; Thomas v. flarvies's
Heirs, id. 149, 150; Burke v. Smith, 16 Wall. 401; Hirtle v.
Schwartz, 3 Md. 383; Teackle v. Gibson, 8 id. 87; Knight v.
Brown, 14 id. 7; Dugan v. Gittings, 8 Gill (Md.), 161.
Admiralty courts are chancery courts of the sea, and are
governed by chancery rules in the administration of their
remedies. Packardv. Sloop Louisa, 2 Woodb. & M. 60; Brig
Sarah Ann, 2 Sumn. 212; Pittman v. Hooper, 3 id. 305; WTillard v. Dorr, 3 Mlas. 163; Joy v. Allen, 2 Woodb. & M. 304.
The Key City, 14 Wall. 653, was a proceeding in rem, exclusively of admiralty jurisdiction. The principles there enunciated are expressly confined to such a case. It establishes
nothing at variance with what is here contended for. In
a matter solely within their cognizance, courts of equity do
not inflexibly adhere to the common-law period of limitation.
TVisner v. Barnet, 4 Wash. 640; Kane v. Bloodgood, 7 Johns.
(N. Y.) Ch. 90. Nor do the admiralty courts; but that doctrine has no application to this suit.
MR. JUSTICE BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a cause of contract, civil and maritime, commenced
by a libel in personam by Samuel G. Reed, the appellant,
against the Merchants' Mutual Insurance Company of Baltimore, the appellee, to recover $5,000, the amount insured by
the latter on the ship "Minnehaha," belonging to the libellant.
The policy was dated the fourteenth day of January, 1868,
and insured said ship in the amount named, lost or not lost, at
and from Honolulu, via Baker's Island, to a port of discharge
in the United States not east of Boston, with liberty to use
Hampton Roads for orders, "the risk to be suspended while
vessel is at Baker's Island loading." The ship -was lost at
Baker's Island, where she had gone for the purpose of loading,
on the third day of December, 1868. The defence was that

REED V. INSURANCE C0.

[SUP. Ct.

the loss occurred whilst the risk was suspended under the clause
above quoted; also laches by reason of the delay in commencing suit, being more than four years after the cause of action
accrued.
This case, upon the merits, depends solely upon the construction to be given to the clause in the policy before referred to,
namely, "the risk to be suspended while vessel is at Baker's
Island loading;" and turns upon the point whether the clause
means, while the vessel is at Baker's Islandfor thepurposeof loading, or while it is at said island actually loading. If it means
the former, the company is not liable; if the latter, it is liable.
A strictly literal construction would favor the latter meaning.
But a rigid adherence to the letter often leads to erroneous
results, and misinterprets the meaning of the parties. That
such was not the sense in which the parties in this case used
the words in question is manifest, we think, from all the circumstances of the case. Although a written agreement cannot
be varied (by addition or .subtraction) by proof of the circumstances out of which it grew and which surrounded its adoption,
yet such circumstances are constantly resorted to for the purpose of ascertaining the subject-matter and the stand-point of
the parties in relation thereto. Without some knowledge derived from such evidence, it would be impossible to comprehend
the meaning of an instrument, or the effect to be given to the
words of which it is composed. This preliminary knowledge
is as indispensable as that of the language in which the instrument is written. A reference to the actual condition of things
at the time, as they appeared to the parties themselves, is often
necessary to prevent the court, in construing their language,
from falling into mistakes and even absurdities. On this subject Professor Greenleaf says: "The writing, it is true, may
be read by the light of surrounding circumstances, in order
more perfectly to understand the intent and meaning of the
parties; but, as they have constituted the writing to be the
only outward and visible expression of their meaning, no other
words are to be added to it, or substituted in its stead. The
duty of the courts in such cases is to ascertain, not what the
parties may have secretly intended, as contradistinguished
from what their words express, but what is the meaning of the

Oct. 1877.]

REED V. INSURANCE CO.

words they have used." 1 Green]. Evid., sect. 277. Mr.
Taylor uses language of similar purport. He says: " What
ever be the nature of the document under review, the object is
to discover the intention of the writer as evidenced by thp
words he has used; and, in order to do this, the judge must puthimself in the writer's place, and then see how the terms of
the instrument affect the property or subject-matter. With
this view, extrinsic evidence must be admissible of all the circumstances surrounding the author of the instrument." Taylor, Evid., sect. 1082. Again he says: "It may, and indeed
it often does, happen, that, in consequence of the surrounding
circumstances being proved in evidence, the courts give to the
instrument, thus relatively considered, an interpretation very
different from what it would have received, had it been considered in the abstract. But this is only just and proper;
since the effect of the evidence is not to vary the language
employed, but merely to explain the sense in which the writer
understood it." Id., sect. 1085. See Tkorington v. Smithz,
8 Wall. 1, and remarks of Mr. Justice Strong in laryland v.
-RailroadCompany, 22 id. 105.
The principles announced in these quotations, with the
limitations and cautions with which they are accompanied,
seem to us indisputable; and, availing ourselves of the light
of the surrounding circumstances in this case, as they appeared,
or must be supposed to have appeared, to the parties at the
time of making the contract, we cannot doubt that the meaning of the words which are presented for our consideration is
that the risk was to be suspended while the vessel was at
Baker's Island for the purpose of loading, whether actually
engaged in the process of loading or not. Taking this clause
in absolute literality, the risk would only be suspended when
loading was actually going on. It would revive at any time
after the loading was commenced, if it had to be discontinued
by stress of weather, or any other cause. It would even revive
at night, when the men were not at work. This could not have
been the intent of the parties. It could not have been what
they meant by the words "while vessel is at Baker's Island
loading." It was the place, its exposure, its unfavorable moorage, which the insurance companies had to fear, and the risk

REED V. INSURANCE 00.

[Sup. Ct.

of which they desired to avoid. The whole reason of the thing
and the object in view point to the intent of protecting themselves whilst the vessel was in that exposed place for the purpose referred to, not merely to protect themselves whilst
loading was actually going on. Her visit to the island was
only for the purpose of loading; as between the contracting
parties, she had no right to be there for any other purpose;
and, supposing that they intended that the risk should be suspended whilst she was there for that purpose, it would not be
an unnatural form of expression to say, "the risk to be suspended while vessel is at Baker's Island loading." And we
think that no violence is done to the language used, to give it
the sense which all the circumstances of the case indicate that
it must have had in the minds of the parties.
If we are right in this construction of the contract, there
can be no uncertainty as to its effect upon the liability of the
underwriters. The loss clearly accrued at a time when, by the
terms of the policy, the risk was suspended. The ship sailed
in ballast from Honolulu on or about the 7th of November,
1867, and arrived at Baker's Island on the afternoon of the
twentieth day of November, 1867. She came to her mooring
in safety, and her sails were furled, shortly after which a heavy
gale and heavy surf arose. The gale and surf continued with
violence until the 3d of December, 1867, when the ship parted
her moorings, and was totally wrecked and lost. At no time
after her arrival at Baker's Island was it possible to discharge
ballast or receive cargo or to commence the progress of loading. The violence of the winds, current, and waves, and their
adverse course and direction, prevented the ship from slipping
her cables and getting to sea, or otherwise escaping the perils
that surrounded her.
These facts are indisputable; and they show that, when the
loss occurred, the vessel was at Baker's Island for the purpose
of loading. That the process of loading had not actually commenced is of no consequence. The suspension of the risk commenced as soon as the vessel arrived at the island and was
safely moored in her proper station for loading.
The appellee, as a further defence, set up laches in bringing
suit. The libel was not filed until more than four years had

Oct. 1877.]

VAN RE YNEGAN

v. BOLTON.

33

elapsed after the cause of action had accrued. The Statute of
Limitations of Maryland requires actions of account, assumpsit,
on the case, &c., to be brought within three years; and the
counsel for the appellee insists that by analogy to this statute
the Admiralty Court, having concurrent jurisdiction with the
State courts in this case, should apply the same rule. We
had occasion, in the case of Te Key City, 14 Wall. 653, to
explain the principles by which courts of admiralty are governed when laches in bringing suit is urged as an exception
in cases cognizable therein. In view of the construction
which we have given to the contract in this case, it is not
necessary to pass upon the precise question now raised by the
appellee.
It is also unnecessary to examine other questions which were
mooted on the argument.
-Decreeaffirmed.

VANIS

REYN-EGAN

v.

B OLTO.

1. Under the Mexican law, when a grant of land is made by the government, z
formal delivery of possession to the grantee by a magistrate of the vicinageis essential to the complete investiture of title. This proceeding, called, in
the language of the country, the delivery of juridical possession, involves
the establishment of the boundaries of the land granted, when there is any
uncertainty with respect to them. A record of the proceeding is preserved
by the magistrate, and a copy delivered to the grantee.
2. Unless the decree of the tribunals of the United States, confirming a claim
under such a grant, otherwise limits the extent or the form of the tract, the
boundaries thus established should control the officers of the United States
in surveying the land.
3. A survey, by a surveyor-general of the United States, of a claim thus confirmed, is inoperative, until finally approved by the Land Department at
Washington.
4. Where a quantity of land in California was granted by the Mexican government within a tract embracing a larger amount, in the possession of which
tract the grantee was placed, he is entitled to retain such possession until
that quantity is segregated from the tract by the officers of the government
and set apart to him; and he may maintain ejectment for the whole tract,
or any portion of it, against parties in possession claiming under the preemption laws of the United States.
6. Lands claimed under Mexican grants in California are excluded from settlement under the pre-emption laws, so long as the claims of the grantees remain
undetermined by the tribunals and officers of the United States.
VOL. V.

