Oct. 1877.]

MITCHELL V. MOORE.

right conferred upon the officer to enter the building or place
of business of another in such a case is strictly limited to a
building or place of business in which articles or objects subject
to taxation are, at the time of the proposed entry and examination, made, produced, or kept, and that paid bank-checks,
unless it is alleged and proved that they were not duly and
sufficiently stamped at the time they were made, signed, and
issued, are riot articles or objects subject to taxation within the
meaning of the act of Congress on which the information is
founded. Nothing is admitted by the demurrer except what
is well pleaded in the information; and inasmuch as the only
charge of the information in that regard is that paid bankchecks were then and there kept in the said building or place
of business described, the court is of the opinion that the
information does not set forth any legal offence against the
defendant, as defined by the said act of Congress.
Judgment affirmed.

MITCHELL v. MOORE.
1. A trustee residing in Alabama during the rebellion, who kept no separate
accounts of the trust fund, but invested it in his own name, cannot charge
it with the losses lie sustained from payments made to him in Confederate
money.
2, Where the allegations of a bill charging a breach of trust, and praying for an
account by the trustee, the payment of the amount found due, his removal,
and general relief, are sustained by the proofs, - Held, that the appointment
of a new trustee, and the decree for the payment to him of the principal
of the fund, is necessary to carry into full effect an order for the removal of
the old trustee.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Alabama.
In November, 1873, Catharine Moore, by L. D. Moore, her
husband and next friend, filed her bill against Daniel Mitchell,
her trustee, charging him with neglect in the execution of his
trust, and with loss of the fund.
This trust was created by James Mitchell, her father, who,
by will, appointed said Daniel and one Baskin his executors,
and bequeathed to them a negress and her child, in trust for

MITCHELL V. MOORE.

[Sup. Ct.

Catharine. The hire of these was to be paid to her annually;
and if the executors should deem it proper to sell the slaves,
then the interest on the purchase-money was to be paid annually to her. The fifth item provides, in case she should survive
her husband, the slaves were to be delivered to her, or, if they
were sold, the purchase-money was to be paid to her.
The will further provides that the executors shall sell the
real estate of the testator, the proceeds to be equally distributed
among the children named in the will. " The share of Catharine to be held in trust by my executors, and the interest accruing annually to be paid to Catharine, as specified in the fifth
item, and finally disposed of in the same manner as the property directed in the fifth item."
James Mitchell died in Sumter County, Alabama, in 1856,
and immediately thereafter the executors qualified under the
will.
The bill avers that there was a large amount due her for the
hire of the slaves, and that the executors, on a settlement with
the Probate Court, were charged with the sum of $9,204.60,
which, divided into shares according to the will, left them
indebted to the complainant in the amount of $1,150.54;
that they have neglected for the past eleven years to pay
interest, and mingled the fund with their own, and used it,
to her great loss; that Baskin resides beyond the jurisdiction of the court; and that said Daniel had "almost if not
the exclusive management of the trust and the property created
thereby."
The prayer is that the trust be established, and an account taken of what is due for principal and interest; that the
trustees be removed; and that Mitchell "may be decreed to
pay to your oratrix whatever she may be found entitled to
under said trust."
Tro this is added a prayer for general relief.
An amended bill avers that the executors had sold the slave
girl and her child before the late war, and had never accounted
for the hire or the purchase-money.
The answer sets forth that said Daniel accepted the trust
purely for the accommodation of his sister, the complainant, and by agreement with his father was not to charge any

Oct. 1877.]

MITCHELL V. MOORE.

compensation for his services; that he never received or made
any claim therefor; and that by this agreement he was not
to be charged with any loss in the execution of the trust, if he
should manage it as he did his own affairs.
It admits the sale of the negress and her child in July,
1856, for the-sum of $1,375.25, and avers that up to 1862 said
Daniel accounted annually for the interest thereon ; that payment was not subsequently made, as there was no communication during the war between Alabama and Texas, in which
latter State his sister then resided; and that the money was
loaned out on good security, and was during the war paid to
him in Confederate money, then the only currency. It further avers that "all of the said money, together with a large
sum owned by defendant, became valueless and lost to him;"
that the complainant's distributive share, $1,150.54, was loaned
out on good security, and the interest thereon annually paid
up to 1862; and that the amount due on the loan was paid to
him in March, 1863, in Confederate currency, which at that time
was worth three and a half for one in United States currency.
A decree was rendered against Mitchell, removing him as
trustee, and adjudging that he pay the principal to a new trustee.
Mitchell appealed to this court, assigning for error the ruling
of the court below that he was liable for the amount decreed
against him, and that the principal amount be paid to a new
trustee.
The remaining facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Hr. Philip Pdillips for the appellant.
31r. Conwayl Robinson and 31r. Leigh Robinson, contra.
M1n. C aEr JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
There can be no doubt that the trust fund in this case was
always used by the defendant as his own, and that all invest
ments were made by him in his own name, with nothing
whatever to indicate an appropriation to the purposes of the
trust. When inquired of by the complainant in October, 1860,
in respect to the trust, the defendant wrote: "If you will be
contented I will fix your money so that you can see it any
instant. But as the time is now, it is in a better fix now than

MITCHELL V. MOORE.

[Sup. Ct.

it would be if you bad it." In his deposition, taken in his own
behalf, when upon cross-examination he was required to make
a full, complete, and detailed statement of his execution of the
trust, he said: "I kept no separate account of the trust fund
after it came into my hands. I accounted for the annual interest to the agent of the complainant, and was ready to pay over
the principal in the event of the death of A. L. D. Mkfoore,
which was the time fixed by the will of my father for me to
pay over to my sister the corpus of the trust. I thought this
was all I was required to do, and, therefore, kept no separate
and distinct accounts of the trust fund, and cannot give the
dates of the loans, or other particulars inquired about ...
When necessary, I put some of my own funds with it to make
out the sum a borrower might wish to get, and kept no separate accounts of it, and can furnish none."
Under these circumstances, clearly the defendant is in no
condition to charge the trust with the losses he has sustained
from payments to him in Confederate money. As long ago as
1681, it was said in argument, and approved by the then Lord
Chancellor of England, in Dashwood v. Blwall, 2 Ch. Cas. 56,
that "if an executor hath orphan's or other men's money in his
hands, and hath power to lend it, if he do so, and take security
in his own name, which faileth, he shall answer the debt in his
own money, unless that he indorse the bond, or do some other
thing, at the time of lending the money or taking the security,
which may doubtless declare the truth," and this because "heed
was to be taken that we make not such examples under which
dishonest men may shelter themselves." If this were not the
rule, it was also said, "It will be in the power of one who deals
for several persons and for himself also, taking security by bond
in his own name, if any of the debts fail, to gratify whom be
pleaseth with good securities, yea, himself, and play the securities, good or bad, into his own hands, or what he pleaseth."
Thus were set forth in the language of the time a rule, and the
reason of it, by which courts of equity have universally required
trustees to account; and it can never be departed from, without
danger that wrong will be done. Massey v. Banner, 4 Madd.
413; Wren v. Kirton, 11 Ves. Jr. 377; MeAllister v. The
Commonwealth, 80 Pa. St. 536; Stanley's Appeal, 8 id. 431.

Oct. 1877.]

GIVEN V. HILTON.

This disposes of the first assignment of error. There is no dispute as to the amount of the trust fund, and no complaint is made
of the rate of interest for which the defendant has been decreed
to account, if he is liable to account at all.
The second assignment of error is to the effect that the court
could not direct the payment of the principal sum to a new
trustee, because such a decree was inconsistent with the specific
relief prayed for. The prayer is for an aocount, the removal
of the old trustees, the payment to the complainant of th5
money she is entitled to, and for general relief. There is no
specific prayer for the appointment of a new trustee, or the
payment of the principal of the fund to him when appointed;
but such relief is necessary, in order to carry into full effect an
order for the removal of the old trustees.
SDecree affirmed.

GrVEN v.

HILTON.

1. Where the intent of a testator to make a complete disposition of all his property is manifest throughout his will, its provisions should be so construed,
if they reasonably may, as to carry that intent into effect.
2. While an apparent general intent cannot control his particular directions plainly
to the contrary, or enlarge dispositions beyond their legitimate meaning, it is
of weight in determining what he intended by particular devises or bequests
that may admit of an enlarged or a limited construction.
8. The rule in the construction of wills, where certain things are enumerated,
that a more general description, which is coupled with the enumeration,
is commonly understood to cover only things ejusden generis with the particular things mentioned, rests on a mere presumption, easily rebutted by
any thing which shows that the larger subject was in fact in the testator's
view.
4. The will in this case construed, and hdd, 1. That the testator intended to
dispose of his entire estate, and not to die intestate as to any portion of it.
2. That his direction to his executors to sell all his estate not otherwise
devised and bequeathed was intended to secure a complete conversion, to
all intents, of his entire property into personal estate. 3. That, with the
exception of the lot devised, his entire estate, both real and personal, after
the payment of his debts and of the legacies prior to that given to the
residuary legatee, passed to the latter.

APPEAL from the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.

The bill in this case was filed by John Emory Hilton and

eertain other heirs-at-law and next of kin of John P. Hilton,

