UNITED STATES V. MCLEAN.

[Sup. Ct

which would recognize all the county jails, penitentiaries, and
other prisons of the United States as belonging to the judicial,
as distinguished from the executive, department of government,
would, we imagine, excite surprise. It is very clear that
Manning was not an employ6 under the court, and that the
crier and the messengers are; and, if the deputy-clerk can be
said to be in the employment of any but his principal, he also
performs duties under the immediate control of the court.
The circumstance that in the emolument account of the clerk
the auditor allows him to deduct, from the fees which he would
otherwise pay into the treasury, the deputy's compensation, does
not make him an employ6 of the department. All claims paid
out of the treasury of the United States must be audited by
one of its officers, and approved by one of the comptrollers;
but their action in allowing or refusing to allow a claim proves
nothing as to which of these great constitutional divisions, executive, legislative, or judicial, the claimant belongs.
Judgment reversed, witk directions to dismiss tlte petitions.

UNiTED STATES v. MoLEA-w.
1. After the salary of a deputy-postmaster has been fixed, it cannot be increased

until a readjustment of it, based upon his quarterly returns, shall have been
made by the Postmaster-General.
2. Such readjustment is an executive act, taking effect in all cases prospectively;
and, if it be not performed, the law imposes no obligation upon the government to pay an increased salary.

8. Courts cannot enforce rights depending for their existence upon a prior per.
formance by an executive officer of certain duties which he has failed to
perform.

APPEAL from the Court of Claims.
This was an action by McLean to recover $569.50 for compensation which he claimed to be due him as deputy-postmaster
at Florence, Kansas, from April 14, 1871, to July 1, 1872.
The Court of Claims found in his favor, and rendered judgment for that amount. The United States appealed to this
court.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Oct. 1877.]

UNITED STATES

V. M LEAN.

The Solicitor-General for the United States.
Mr. Hfarvey Spalding, contra.
MR. JUSTICE STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.

The case of the claimant appears to be a hard one; but we
think he has no remedy by suit in the Court of Claims. His
claim rests not upon any contract with the government, either
express or implied, but upon acts of Congress providing for a
regulation of the salaries of deputy-postmasters.
On the thirteenth day of March, 1871, he was appointed postmaster at Florence, Kansas, and his salary was fixed at seven
dollars, until it could be ascertained what the business of his office
would be. He entered upon the duties of the appointment on
the 14th of April, 1871, and continued therein until after July
1, 1872, from which date his salary was fixed at 8560 a year.
His claim now is, that, under the statutes prescribing the basis
for compensation, adjustment and readjustment of salaries of
postmasters, he is entitled to be paid for his service between
April 14, 1871, and July 1, 1872, the sum of $578.
Before examining the acts of Congress bearing upon the sub
ject, some further notice of the facts is necessary. In a letter
accompanying the claimant's appointment, he was required to
make out, at the end of each quarter, and forward to the Third
Assistant Postmaster-General, a statement, under oath, of the
total value of postage-stamps cancelled during the quarter; and
he was informed that his salary could not exceed the amount to
which the office would be entitled, from commissions and boxrents under the former laws, but that it would be readjusted at
the proper time by the Postmaster-General, on the basis of the
amount of business done, as shown by the quarterly statements
required. On the 1st of June, 1871, he was instructed from
the department, that, in order to enable the Postmaster-General
to review and readjust his salary from and after the first day
of July, 1872, he should keep an account of the total number
of stamps cancelled at his office for the six months beginning
July 1, 1871, and ending Dec. 31, 1871; also the amount collected on unpaid letters, on newspapers, and other printed matter, and for box-rents during the same period; and that, on the
Ist of January, 1872, he should make out and forward a sworn

UNITED STATES V. M CLEAN.

[Sup. Ct.

statement of the amount arising from each of those sources.
With this latter order he complied, and on the 1st of January,
1872, he forwarded a sworn statement, showing the revenue of
his office to have been $482.67 during the six months next preceding Jan. 1, 1872; and, at the regular biennial adjustment
of salaries, in June next following, the Postmaster-General readjusted his salary on the basis of his statement, and fixed it at
$560 a year, from July 1, 1872. From April 14,1871, till July
1, 1872, the claimant made no application for readjustment of
his salary as first fixed, unless a letter written by him to the
Third Assistant Postmaster-General, complaining of the inadequacy of his compensation, can be regarded as an application
for readjustment. But that letter was unaccompanied by any
sworn statement of the income of his office, and it furnished no
basis for readjustment; nor was there any subsequent application, except that, in October, 1872, after the salary had been
fixed at $560 from July I of that year, a person claiming to
be the claimant's attorney wrote to the department, requesting
that the order readjusting the salary should be modified, so as
to take effect from April 14, 1871. But this application also
was accompanied by no sworn statement of revenue.
Upon this statement of facts it appears to us very clear that
the acts of Congress give to the claimant no right to any greater
salary between April 14, 1871, and July 1, 1872, than that
which was fixed at the time of his appointment, and which he
has received. The act of June 22, 1854, authorized the Postmaster-General to allow to deputy-postmasters, in lieu of the
compensation before allowed, commissions on the postage collected at their respective offices, at varying rates, according to
the amounts collected. 10 Stat. 298. The act of July 1, 1864,
divided such postmasters into five classes, and substituted fixed
salaries for commissions. In the classification made, the claimant, when appointed, belonged to the fifth class, - his salary
being less than $100. The second section of the act enacted
that the Postmaster-General shall review once in two years,
and in special cases, upon satisfactory representation, as much
oftener as he may deem expedient, and readjust on the basis of
the first section the salary assigned by him to any office; but
that any change made in such salary should not take effect

Oct. 1877.]

UNITED STATES V. McLEAN.

until the first day of the quarter next following such order.
The fourth section enacted that, at offices whidh had not been
established for two years prior to July 1, 1864, the salary might
be adjusted upon a satisfactory return by the postmaster of the
receipts, expenditures, and business of his office. 13 id. 335.
The act of June 12, 1866, 14 id. 60, amended the second section of the act of 1864, by adding the proviso, that when the
quarterly returns of any postmaster of the third, fourth, or fifth
class show that the salary allowed is ten per cent less than
it would be on the basis of commissions under the act of 1854,
fixing compensation, then the Postmaster-General shall review
and adjust under the provisions of that, the second, section.
From a review of these statutory provisions it appears plainly
that, after a salary of a postmaster has been fixed, a readjustment by the Postmaster-General must be made before it can be
increased, and the readjustment takes effect in all cases prospectively. The laW imposes no obligation upon the government to pay an increased salary, unless a readjustment has
preceded it. And by the act of 1866, the Postmaster-General
is not to readjust an existing salary, unless the quarterly returns
made show cause for it. Now, if it be conceded that the quarterly returns made on the last day of each quarter, beginning
with June 30,1871, made it the duty of the Postmaster-General
to make a readjustment immediately on the receipt of the
returns, still his readjustment was an executive act, made necessary by the law, in order to perfect any liability of the government. If the executive officer failed to do his duty, be
might have been constrained by a mandamus. But courts cannot perform executive duties, or treat them as performed when
they have been neglected. They cannot enforce rights which
are dependent for their existence upon a prior performance by
an executive officer of certain duties he has failed to perform.
The right asserted by the claimant rests upon a condition unfulfilled. The judgment was therefore erroneous, and must be
reversed, and the record remitted to the Court of Claims, with
instructions to dismiss the petition; and it is
So ordered.
VOL. V.

