Oct. 1877.]

NATIONAL BANK V. INSURANCE CO.

of bankruptcy; but it does not say so, and we cannot supply
qualifications which the legislature has failed to express.
Our answer to the question certified must be in the negative;
and it will be so returned to the Circuit Court.

NATIoSAI

BANS v. INsuRANCE CoPA-y.

1. When a party states, in his application for an insurance, that he has made
a just, full, and true exposition of all material facts and circumstances in
regard to the condition, situation, value, and risk of the property, so far as
known to him, and the application is expressly made a part of the policy,
should it afterwards appear that he overestimated the value of the property, the policy would not be vitiated, unless it be shown that the estimate
was intentionally excessive.
2. When a policy contains contradictory provisions, or is so framed as to render
it doubtful whether the parties intended that the exact truth of the applicant's statements should be a condition precedent to any binding contract,
that construction which imposes upon the assured the obligations of a warranty should not be favored.
S. The policy having been prepared by the insurers, it should be construed most
strongly against them.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Missouri.
This is an action on a policy of insurance issued by the
Hartford Fire Insurance Company to W. D. Oldham, on certain mill property, building, and machinery, and by him transferred and assigned to the First National Bank of Kansas
City, Mo. The parties, by written stipulation, waived a jury;
and, upon a special finding of facts, the Circuit Court gave
judgment for the company. The bank thereupon sued out this
writ of error.
It appears from the special finding, that, by the terms of the
application, the assured was required to state separately "the
estimated value of personal property and of each building to be
insured, and the sum to be insured on each'; . . . the value of
the property being estimated by the applicant." The applicant
was also directed to answer certain questions, and sign the same
"as a description of the premises on which the insurance will
be predicated." Among the questions to be answered were:
voL. Y.

43

NATIONAL BANK V. INSURANCE

00.

[Sup. Of.

" What is the cash value of the buildings, aside from hand and
water power? What is the cash value of the machinery?"
The answer was: "$15,000, building; $15,000, machinery."
The application concludes with these words: "And the said applicant hereby covenants and agrees to and
with said company, that the foregoing is a just, full, and true exposition of all the facts and circumstances in regard to the condition,
situation, value, and risk of the property to be insured, so far as the
same are known to the applicant, and are material to the risk."
The policy refers to the application in these words: "Special reference being had to assured's application and survey,
No. 1462, on file, which is his warranty, and a part hereof."
The policy further recites "If an application, survey, plan, or description of the property
.herein insured is referred to in this policy, such application, survey,
plan, or description shall be considered a part of this policy, and a
warranty by the assured; and if the assured, in a written or verbal
application, makes any erroneous representation, or omits to make
known any fact material to the risk, . . . then, and in afiy such
ease, this policy shall be void. . .. Any fraud or attempt at fraud,
or any false swearing on the part of the assured, shall cause a forfeiture of all claim under this policy."
The policy also declares that it is made and accepted upon
the above, among other, express conditions.
It is found by the court that when the policy was issued, as
well as at the date of the destruction of the property by fire,
the cash value of the building, aside from hand and water
power, was $8,000, and no more; and the cash value of the
machinery, at the same dates, was $12,000, and no more.
The court also found that "the answers made by the assured
to the questions contained in the application were made by him
in good faith, without any intention on his part to commit any
fraud on the defendant."
It is further declared in the special finding, that, "under the
provisions of the policy and application, made part thereof,
the court finds, as a conclusion of law, that the answers of the
assured as to the value of the property insured defeat the light
to recover on the policy."

Oct. 1877.3

NATIONAL BANK V. INSURANCE CO.

Hr. John K. Cravens for the plaintiff in error cited May onIns., sects. 156, 160, 164, 168, 169; .Elliot v. Hamilton M1utual
Insurance Co., 13 Gray (Mass.), 139; Fitch v. American Popular Life Insurance Co., 59 N. Y. 557; Germania Fire Insurance Co. v. Casteel, 9 Chicago Legal News, 374; Franklin
Insurance Co. v. Vaughan, 92 U. S. 516; Yeaton v. Fry,
5 Cranch, 342.
Mr. John C. Gage, contra, cited Owens v. Holland Purchase
Insurance Co., 56 N. Y. 565; First National Bank of Ballston
Spa v. Insurance Company of Xorth America, 50 id. 45; Ripley v. The .Etna Insurance Co., 30 id. 136; .,tna Life Insurance Co. v. Franceet al., 91 U. S. 110; Jeffries v. Life Insurance
Co., 22 Wall. 47; Leroy v. The Mgarket Fire Insurance Co., 39
N. Y. 90; Conover v. The Massachusetts Insurance Co., 3 Dill.
217; M1iles et al. v. Connecticut M1utual Life Insurance Co.,
3 Gray (Mass.), 580; Campbell v. NLew -ngland M1utual Life
Insurance Co., 98 Mass. 381 ; Cooper v. Farmers' llutual Fire
Insurance Co., 50 Pa. St. 305.
MR. JUSTICE HARLAX delivered the opinion of the court.

On behalf of the company, it is contended that, under any
proper construction of the contract, the assured warranted, absolutely and without limitation, the truth of the several statements in the application, including the statement as to the valu,
of the property. If this view be sound, the judgment of the
Circuit Court must be affirmed; otherwise, it must be reversed.
Our conclusion is that the plaintiff in error, who is the beneficiary of the policy, is entitled to a judgment, notwithstanding
the overvaluation of the property by the assured.
The entire application having been made, by express words,
a part of the policy, it is entitled to the same consideration as
if it had been inserted at large in that instrument. The policy
and application together, therefore, constitute the written agreement of insurance; and, in ascertaining the intention of the
parties, full effect must be given to the conditions, clauses, and
stipulations contained in both instruments.
Looking first into the application, we find no language which,
by fair construction, was notice to the assured that, in answering questions, 1,e was assuming, or was expected to assume, the

NATIONAL BANK V. INSURANCE CO.

[sup. Ct.

strict obligations which the law attaches to a warranty. There
is no intimation anywhere in that instrument that the exact
truth of the answers was a condition precedent, either to the
consideration of the application or to the issuing of a policy.
On the contrary, the application contains the covenant of the
assured that he had in that instrument made a just, full, and
true exposition of all material facts and circumstances in regard
to the condition, situation, value, and risk of the property, so
far as known to him. The taking of that covenant, at the
threshold of the negotiations, was, in effect, an assurance that
a frank statement of all such material facts as were within the
knowledge of the applicant would meet the requirements of
the company. It was a covenant of good faith on the part of
the assured, - nothing more; and, so far as it related to the
value of the property, -was not broken, unless the estimates by
the assured were intentionally excessive. If the case turned
wholly upon the construction to be given to the application, it
is quite clear that the overvaluation of the property would not
defeat a recovery upon the written agreement, since the assured,
by the special finding, is acquitted of any purpose to defraud
the company. That is equivalent to saying that the assured
did not withhold any material fact within his knowledge con
cerning the condition, situation, value, or risk of the property.
But the difficulty in the case arises from the peculiar wording of the policy, considering the application as a part thereof.
While the assured in one part of the written agreement is made
to stipulate for a warranty, and in another the policy is declared
to be void if the assured "makes any erroneous representation,
or omits to make known any fact material to the risk," in still
another part of the same agreement - the application - he
covenants that, as to all material facts within his knowledge,
respecting the condition, situation, value, and risk of the property, he has made a full, just, and true exposition. If the
purpose of the company was to secure a warranty of the correctness of each statement in the application, and if the court
should adopt that construction of the contract, there could be
no recovery on the policy, if any one of these statements were
proven to be untrue; and this, although such statement may
,ave been wholly immaterial to the risk, and was made without

Oct. 1877.]

NATIONAL BANK V. INSURANCE

CO.

any intent to mislead or defraud. Such a construction, according to established doctrine, might defeat the recovery, even if
the overvaluation had been so slight as not to have influenced
the company in accepting the risk. But if such was the purpose of the company, why did* it not stop with the express
declaration of a warranty? Why did it go further, and incorporate into the policy a provision for its annulment in the
event the assured should make an "erroneous representation,
or omit to make known any fact material to the risk" ? language inconsistent with the law of warranty. Still further,
why did the company make the application a part of the policy,
and thereby import into the contract the covenant of the assured, not that he had stated every fact material to the risk,
or that his statements were literally true, but only that he had
made a just, true, and full exposition of all material facts, so
far as known to him.
It is the duty of the court to reconcile these clauses of the
written agreement, if it be possible to do so consistently with
the intention of the parties, to be collected from the terms
used.
It will be observed, from an examination of the questions
propounded to the assured, that, among other things, he was
asked whether the building was of stone,'brick, or wood; how
the premises were warmed; what materials were used for lighting them; whether a watchman was kept during the night;
what amount of insurance was already on the property; whether
it was mortgaged, &c. These and similar questions refer to
matters of which the assured had actual knowledge, or about
which he might, with propriety, be required to speak with perfect accuracy. They are matters capable of precise ascertainment, and in no sense depending upon estimate, opinion, or
mere probability. But his situation and duty were wholly different when required to state the cash value of his property.
He was required to give its "estimated value." His answers
concerning such value were, in one sense, and, perhaps, in
every just sense, only the expression of an opinion. The ordinary test of the value of property is the price it will command
in the market if offered for sale. But that test cannot, in the
very nature of the case, be applied at the time application is

NATIONAL

BANK V. INSURANCE

CO.

[Sup. Ct.

made for insurance. Men may honestly differ about the value
of property, or as to what it will bring in the market; and such
differences are often very marked among those whose special
business it is to buy and sell property of all kinds. The assured could do no more than estimate such value; and that, it
seems, was all that he was required to do in this case. His duty
was to deal fairly with the company in making such estimate.
The special finding shows that he discharged that duty and
observed good faith. We shall not presume that the company,
after requiring the assured in his application to give the "estimated value," and then to covenant that he had stated all material facts in regard to such value, so far as known to him, and
after carrying that covenant, by express words, into the written
contract, intended to abandon the theory upon which it sought
the contract, and make the absolute correctness of such estimated value a condition precedent to any insurance whatever.
The application, with its covenant and stipulations, having
been made a part of the policy, that presumption cannot be
indulged without imputing to the company a purpose, by
studied intricacy or an ingenious framing of the policy, to
entrap the assured into incurring obligations which, perhaps,
he had no thought of assuming.
Two constructions of the contract may be suggested. One
is to regard the warranty expressed in the policy as limited or
qualified by the terms of the application. In that view, the
assured would be held as only warranting that he had stated
all material facts in regard to the condition, situation, value,
and risk of the property, so far as they were known to him.
This is, perhaps, the construction most consistent with the
literal import of the terms used in the application and the
policy. The other construction is to regard the warranty as
relating only to matters of which the assured had, or should
be presumed to have had, distinct, definite knowledge, and not
to such matters as values, which depend upon mere opinion or
probabilities. But, without adopting either of these constructions, we rest the conclusion already indicated upon the broad
ground that when a policy of insurance contains contradictory
provisions, or has been so framed as to leave room for construction, rendering it doubtful whether the parties intended the

Oct. 1877.]

FARRINGTON v. TENNESSEE.

exact truth of the applicant's statements to be a condition precedent to any binding contract, the court should lean against
that construction which imposes upon the assured the obligations of a warranty. The company cannot justly complain of
such a rule. Its attorneys, officers, or agents prepared the policy for the purpose, we shall assume, both of protecting tl e
company against fraud, and of securing the just rights of the
assured under a valid contract of insurance. It is its language
which the court is invited to interpret, and it is both reasonable and just that its own words should be construed most
strongly against itself.
Wherefore, as it does not clearly appear that the parties
intended that the validity of the contract of insurance should
depend upon the absolute correctness of the estimates of value,
and as it does appear that such estimates were made by the
assured without any intention to defraud, our opinion is that
the facts found do not support the judgment.
The judgment will, therefore, be reversed, and the cause remanded with directions to enter a judgment upon the special
finding for the plaintiff in error; and it is
So ordered.

FAnRn-GTON v. TENNESSEE.
The charter of a bank, granted by the legislature of Tennessee, provides, that
the bank "shall pay to the State an annual tax of one-half of one per cent on
each share of the capital stock subscribed, which shall be in lieu of allother
taxes." Held, 1. That this provision is a contract between the State and
the bank, limiting the amount of tax on each share of the stock. 2. That
a subsequent revenue law of the State, imposing an additional tax on the
shares in the hands of stockholders, impairs the obligation of that contract,
and is void.

ERR Oi to the Supreme Court of the State of Tennessee.
The Union and Planters' Bank of Memphis is a banking corporation, doing business at Memphis, Shelby County, Tennessee, organized under a charter granted by the General Assembly
of that State March 20, 1858, and amended Feb. 12, 1869, the
tenth section of which provides that "said company shall pay

