INSURANCE CO. V. WOLFF.

[Sup. CL.

company in existence, subject to all the duties imposed upon
it. Such an alteration is taking away the property of the company without compensation, as much as would be taking away
its lands.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WAITE did not sit in this case, nor
take any part in deciding it.

INSURANCE COMPrT

Y V. WOLFF.

1. A took out a policy of insurance upon the life of her husband. The premium
was payable annually on the first day of November. The policy stipulated
for the payment of the amount of the insurance within sixty days after due
notice and proof of the death of the insured, subject, however, to certain
express conditions. One of these conditions provided, that, if the premiums
were not paid on or before the days mentioned for their payment, the company should not be liable for the sum insured, or any part of it, and that the
policy should cease and determine. Another condition provided, that, if the
insured resided in any part of the United States south of the 33d degree
of north latitude, except in California, between the 1st of July and the
1st of November, without the consent of the company previously given in
writing, the policy should be null and void. The policy declared that
agents of the company were not authorized to make, alter, or discharge
contracts, or waive forfeitures; but the company, notwithstanding this provi'sion, sent renewal receipts signed by its secretary; and their use, when
countersigned by its local manager and cashier, was subject enthely to
the judgment of its local agent. It was his habit to give such receipts
whenever the premiums were paid after the time stipulated. His mode of
dealing with persons taking out policies at the local olce, his use of renewal
receipts, his acceptance of premiums after the day on which they were payable, were all known to the home company, and it retained the premiums
thus received. The insured died at the city of New Orleans on the l1th of
November, 1872. Between the 1st of July and the 1st of November of that
year he had resided at that city, which is south of the 33d degree of north
latitude, without the knowledge or the previous consent in writing of the
company; and the annual premium due at the latter date was not paid
until ten days thereafter. A friend then paid it to the agent, and took from
him a renewal receipt, but made no mention of the residence of the insured, who died the same day from yellow fever contracted in that district.
The agent, on learning the fact, at once informed the company, and was
immediately instructed by telegraph to tender the premium to the party
paying, and demand the receipt. He did so; but the tender was not accepted, nor the receipt surrendered. Held, 1. That the company, by the
agent's receipt of the premium, waived the forfeiture for non-payment at
the stipulated time, but not the forfeiture incurred by the residence of

Oct. 1877.']

INSURANCE CO. v. WOLFF.

the insured withh. the prohibited district. 2. That the company, having
promptly tendered the return of the premium and demanded the surrender
of its receipt, was not liable on its policy.
2. A waiver can only be justly claimed by the assured where the course of dealing by the company has been such as to induce his action; and the company
should be apprised of the facts which create the forfeiture, and of those which
will necessarily influence its judgment in consenting to waive it.

E ROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Eastern District of Missouri.
The Globe Mutual Life Insurance Company of New York, on
the 5th of November, 1869, issued to Eliza Garber a policy of
insurance for $5,000 upon the life of her husband, commencing
on the 1st of that month. The premium was payable annually
on the 1st of November. The policy stipulated for the paynient of the amount of the insurance within sixty days after
due notice and proof of the death of the insured, subject, however, to certain express conditions. One of these conditions
provided, that, if the premiums were not paid on or before the
days mentioned for their payment, the company should not be
liable for the sum insured, or any part of it, and that the policy
should cease and determine. Another condition provided, that,
if the insured resided in any part of the United States south
of the 33d degree of north latitude, except in California,
between the 1st of July and the 1st of November, with'out the
consent of the company previously given in writing, the policy
should be null and void. And the policy declared that agents
of the company were not authorized to make, alter, or discharge
contracts, or waive forfeitures.
The insured died at the city of New Orleans on the 11th of
November, 1872. Between the 1st of July and the 1st of November of that year he had resided at that city, which is south of the
33d degree of north latitude, without the previous consent in
writing of the company; and the annual premium due on the
first of that month was not paid on or before that day. Due
notice and proof of his death having been given to the company,
and payment by it refused, suit was brought by Mrs. Garber in
the Circuit Court of St. Louis County, whence it was removed,
on the petition of the company, to the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Missouri. Judgment
was rendered for the plaintiff, and the cause removed here by

INSURANCE CO. V. WOLFF.

[Sup. Ot.

writ of error. Mrs. Garber died, and Wolff, her executor, was
made the defendant in error.
The other facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
.fr. John FW.
Noble for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. Montgomery Blair, contra.
delivered the opinion of the court.
By the residence of the insured within the prohibited district of country during the period designated in the policy
without the previous consent of the company, and the failure
of the assured to pay the annual premium when it became due,
the policy, by its express terms, was forfeited, and the company
released from liability, unless the forfeiture was waived by the
action of the company, or of its agents authorized to represent
it in that respect.
The waiver of the forfeiture for the non-payment of the
premium due on the 1st of November, 1872, is alleged on the
ground that the premium was subsequently paid to an agent of
the company, he delivering its receipt for the same, signed by
its secretary, and countersigned by the manager and cashier of
the local office, the plaintiff contending that the company, by its
previous general course of dealing with its agents, and its practice with respect to the policy in suit, had authorized the premiums to be paid and the agent to receive the same after they
became due, and thus had waived any right to a strict compliance with the terms of the policy as to the payment of
premiums.
The waiver of the forfeiture arising from the residence
within the prohibited district between the 1st of July and
November, without the previous consent of the company, is
also alleged from the subsequent payment of the premium and
its receipt by the local agent, the plaintiff contending that the
premium was received with knowledge by the agent of the previous residence of the insured within the prohibited district.
It appears from the record that the deceased was taken sick
with the yellow fever at New Orleans, on the 6th or 7th of
November, 1872, and died on the 11tb of the month, between the
hours of eleven and twelve in the forenoon. On the previous
day a telegram was sent by Mrs. Garber from New Orleans to
AIR. JUSTICE FIELD

Oct. 1877.]

INSURANCE

Co. V. WOLFF.

a gentleman in St. Louis, directing the latter to go to the
agency of the company in that city, at which the policy was
issued, and pay the premium due on the first of the month.
Accordingly, on the following morning, at about nine o'clock,
the premium was paid by this gentleman, and a renewal receipt
was thereupon delivered to him. This renewal receipt was
dated in New York, and signed by the secretary of the company.
It not only acknowledged the receipt of the premium, but it
continued the policy in force for another year. The practice
of the company was to send to its agents in St. Louis receipts
in this form, signed by its secretary, to be countersigned by the
local manager and cashier before being used. The receipt
given was thus countersigned. The payment was made in the
present case to a boy in the office of the agent, and by him
the renewal receipt was delivered. It was his habit to receive
premiums and deliver the proper renewal receipt in the absence
of the agent. In this case the money was given by him on the
latter's coming to the office the same morning. The agent
credited the amount to the company in his semi-monthly account transmitted to the home office. The gentleman who
paid the premium was not aware at the time that the insured
was sick, and no inquiries were made by the boy or the agent
as to his health. It is conceded that they had no information
on the subject. A few days afterwards, the agent learned of
the death of the insured, and of the sickness which was the
immediate cause of it, and informed the home office. The
company at once telegraphed the agent to return the premium
and demand a surrender of the renewal receipt. The money
was accordingly tendered to the gentleman who paid it, and a
surrender of the renewal receipt demanded; but the tender was
not received, nor the receipt returned.
The conditions mentioned in the policy could, of course,
be waived by the company, either before or after they were
broken; they were inserted for its benefit, and it depended
upon its pleasure whether they should be enforced. The difficulty in this case, and in nearly all cases where a waiver is
alleged in the absence of written proof of the fact, arises from
a consideration of the effect to be given to the acts of agents
of the company in their dealings with the assured. Of course,

INSURANCE Co. v. WOLFF.

[Sup. Gt.

such agents, if they bind the company, must have authority to
waive a compliance with the conditions upon a breach of which
the forfeiture is claimed, or to waive the forfeiture when incurred, or their acts waiving such compliance or forfeiture must
be subsequently approved by the company. The law of agency
is the same, whether it be applied to the act of an agent undertaking to continue a policy of insurance, or to any other act,
for which his principal is sought to be held responsible.
The principle.that no one shall be permitted to deny that he
intended the natural 'consequences of his acts when he has
induced others to rely upon them, is as applicable to insurance
companies as it is to individuals, and will serve to solve the
difficulty mentioned. This principle is one of sound morals as
well as of sound law, and its enforcement tends to uphold good
faith and fair dealing. If, therefore, the conduct of the company in its dealings with the assured in this case, and with
others similarly situated, has been such as to induce a belief
that so much of the contract as provides for a forfeiture if the
premium be not paid on the day it is due, would not be enforced
if payment were made within a reasonable period afterwards,
the company ought not, in common justice, to be permitted to
allege such forfeiture against one who has acted upon the
belief, and subsequently made the payment. And if the acts
creating such belief were done by the agent and were subsequently approved by the company, either expressly or by
receiving and retaining the premiums, the same consequences
should follow.
This principle applied to the case at bar will render the
question presented one of easy solution. The company, notwithstanding the provision in the policy that its agents were
not authorized to waive forfeitures, sent to them renewal receipts signed by its secretary, to be used when countersigned
by its local manager and cashier, leaving their use subject
entirely to the judgment of the local agent. The propriety of
their use, in the absence of any fraud in the matter, could not
afterwards be questioned by the company. Accompanying
these receipts was a notice, printed on the same paper, that
policies which became null for non-payment might be renewed
at the home office, within a reasonable time, upon furnishing

Qet. 1877.]

INSURANCE

CO. V. WOLFF.

satisfactory evidence of good health, such satisfactory evidence
being left to the judgment of the local agent, and the renewal
by the home office consisting of a receipt signed by its secretary, transmitted to such agent, to be used when countersigned
by the local manager and cashier. It was the habit of the
agent to give such renewal receipts whenever the premiums
were paid after the time stipulated; and his accounts to the
home office showed such subsequent payment. His action in
this respect was not questioned by the company; and the premiums were retained by it without any pretence that the
policies had ceased to be obligatory for want of punctuality in
their payment. The mode of dealing by the agent with per
sons taking out policies at the local office, his use of renewal
receipts, his acceptance of premiums after the day on which
they were payable, were all known to the home company, and
its retention of the premiums thus received was an approval of
his acts. So far, then, as the waiver of the forfeiture incurred
for non-payment of the premiums is concerned, it is clear that
the company, by its course of dealing, had, notwithstanding the
provision of the policy, left the matter to be determined by its
local agent, to whom the renewal receipts were intrusted.
But, so far as the forfeiture arose from the residence of the
insured within the prohibited district, the case is different.
There is nothing in the acts of the company which goes to
show that it ever authorized its agents to waive a forfeiture
thus incurred, or that it ever knew of any residence of the
insured within the prohibited district until informed of his
death there. In every case where premiums were received
after the day they were payable, the fact that a forfeiture had
been incurred was made known to the company from the date
of the payment, and the retention of the money constituted a
waiver of the forfeiture; but no information of a forfeiture on
any other ground was imparted by the date of such payment.
The agent receiving the premium, in the case at bar, testified
that he knew nothing of the residence of the insured within
the prohibited district during the excepted period, and the evidence in conflict with his testimony was slight. He knew that
the insured had a place of business there, and that he was permitted to make occasional visits there within that period, and

INSURANCE CO. V. WOLFF.

[Sup. ot.

to reside there at other times. Every thing produced as evidence of knowledge of residence within the prescribed district
is consistent with these occasional visits and residence at other
times than during the excepted period. But, even if the agent
knew the fact of residence within the excepted period, he could
not waive the forfeiture thus incurred, without authority from
the company. The policy declared that he was not authorized
to waive forfeitures; and to the provision effect must be given,
except so far aq the subsequent acts of the company permitted
it to be disregarded. There is no evidence that the company
in any way, directly or indirectly, sanctioned a disregard of the
provision with reference to any forfeitures, except such as occurred from non-payment of premiums. As soon as it was
informed of the residence of the insured within the prohibited
district, it directed a return of the premium subsequently paid.
It would be against reason to give to the receipt of the premium by the agent, under the circumstances stated, the efficacy
claimed. The court, in its instructions, treated the receipt of
the premium by the agent, with knowledge of the previous residence of the insured within the prohibited district, if the
agent had such knowledge, as itself a sufficient waiver of the
forfeiture incurred, without any evidence of the action of
the company when informed of such residence; and in this
respect we think the court erred. It is essential that the company should have had some knowledge of the forfeiture, before
it can be held to have waived it.
It is true, that, where an agent is charged with the collection
of premiums upon policies, it will be presumed that he informs
the company of any circumstances coming to his knowledge
affecting its liability; and, if subsequently the premiums are
received by the company without objection, any forfeiture in
curred will be presumed to be waived. But here there was no
ground for any inference of this kind from the subsequent
action or silence of the company. There was no evidence of
a disregard of the condition as to the residence of the insured
in any previous year, and, consequently, there could be no inference of a waiver of its breach from a subsequent retention of
the premium paid. This is a case where immediate enforcement of the forfeiture incurred was directed when information

Oct. 1877.]

INSURANCE CO. v. WOLFF:

was received that the condition of the policy in that respect
had been broken.
Not only should the company have been informed of the
forfeiture before it could be held by its action to have waived
it, but it should also have been informed of the condition of
the health of the insured at the time the premium was tendered,
upon the payment of which the waiver is claimed. The doctrine of waiver, as asserted against insurance companies to
avoid the strict enforcement of conditions contained in their
policies, is only another name for the doctrine of estoppel. It
can only be invoked where the conduct of the companies has
been such as to induce action in reliance upon it, and where it
would operate as a fraud upon the assured if they were afterwards allowed to disavow their conduct and enforce the conditions. To a just application of this doctrine it is essential that
the company sought to be estopped from denying the waiver
claimed should be apprised of all the facts: of those which
create the forfeiture, and of those which will necessarily influence its judgment in consenting to waive it. The holder of the
policy cannot be permitted to conceal from the company an
important fact, like that of the insured being in extremis, and
then to claim a waiver of the forfeiture created by the act
which brought the insured to that condition. To permit such
concealment, and yet to give to the action of the company the
same effect as though no concealment were made, would tend
to sanction a fraud on the part of the policy-holder, instead of
protecting him against the commission of one by the company.
It follows that the judgment must be reversed, and the cause
remanded for a new trial: and it is
So ordered.

