58

McIRENRY

v,. LA SociTi. F ANgAISE, ETC.

[Sup. Ct.

the question of ratification was submitted, it was error of which
the plaintiff cannot complain.
It is unnecessary to notice the other assignment of error, in
view of what we have said.
Judgment affirmed.

MoHr-muy v. LA SOcOTP FRNg ism D']IPAuG~mS.
1 Mortgagees who prove their debt in the bankruptcy proceedings against the
mortgagor become creditors of his general estate only for the balance of the
debt after deducting the value of the mortgaged property, to be ascertained

by agreement, sale, or in such other manner as the bankrupt court may
direct.
2. AMortgagees may, pursuant to leave of that court, institute a suit against the

bankrupt in another court for the foreclosure of his equity of redemption
and the sale of the mortgaged premises.

3. An assignee in bankruptcy is not required to take measures for the sale of
the mortgaged property of the bankrupt, unless its value ezceeds the
incumbrance.

to the Supreme Court of the State of California.
On the 18th of June, 1870, John McHenry, beingindebted to
a society known as La Soci6t6 Fran aise D'lEpargnes in the
sum of $14,000, made his promissory note for that amount, payable twelve months after date, and secured its payment by a
mortgage on certain property in the city of San Francisco, in
the execution of which his wife did not join. McHenry was,
March 20, 1872, duly adjudicated a bankrupt in the District
Court of the United States for the District of California, and on
the 14th of June following the society proved its debt before
the register. Aug. 15, 1872, proceedings in foreclosure were
commenced by the society in the District Court of the nineteenth judicial district of the State of California against the
assignee in bankruptcy, McHenry, his wife and other parties
claiming interests in the property. The assignee made no defence. McHenry and wife demurred, and, among other grounds,
set up the bankruptcy proceedings and the absence of leave
of the bankrupt court to commence the suit. Oct. 4, 1872,
application was made to the latter court for such leave; and,
the assignee having so consented in open court, the order was
ERROR

Oct. 1877.]

McHENRY v. LA SocnfTik FRANgAISE,

MTC.

59

granted, provided that in said action no judgment for any
deficiency be taken against the bankrupt or his assignee.
The cause was then, notwithstanding certain special defences
of the wife, prosecuted to a decree, which made no provision
for enforcing the payment of any sum that might remain
due after the sale of the mortgaged premises. McHenry
and wife appealed to the Supreme Court of the State, where
the decree below was affirmed. The case was then brought
here.
Afr. Thomas J. -Durantfor the plaintiffs in error.
Mr.Edmond L. Goold, contra.
MRt. C=,a_

JUST CE WArTE delivered the opinion of the

court.

In 0laflin v. ouseman, 93 U. S.130, we decided that, under
the law as it stood previous to the adoption of the Revised Statutes, the courts of the United States did not have exclusive jurisdiction of suits for the settlement of conflicting claims to property belonging to the estate of a bankrupt, and that an assignee
in bankruptcy might sue in a State court to collect the assets.
In Ma ,sv. Pritton,20 Wall. 414, we also held, that if an assignee in bankruptcy submitted himself to the jurisdiction of a
State court in a suit affecting the estate which was pending
when the proceedings in bankruptcy were commenced, he was
bound by any judgment that might be rendered. And in
-Eyster v. Gaff, 91 U. S.525, Mr. Justice Miller, speaking for
the court, said: "The debtor of a bankrupt, or the man who contests the right
to real or personal property with him, loses none of his rights by
the bankruptcy of his adversary. The same courts remain open to
him in such contests, and the statute has not divested those courts
of jurisdiction in such actions. If it has for certain classes of actions conferred jurisdiction for the benefit of the assignee in the
Circuit and District Courts of the United States, it is concurrent,
and does not divest that of the State courts."
The principles upon which those cases rest are decisive of
this. The complainant, having a debt against the bankrupt
secured by mortgage, proved the claim against the estate.

60

McHFNRY v. LA SOCiiTft

FRANgAISE, ETC.

[Sup. Ct.

This, under sect. 20 of the bankrupt law, 14 Stat. 526, Rev.
Stat., sect. 5075, admitted the complainant as a creditor of the
general estate only for the balance of the debt after deducting
the value of the mortgaged property, to be ascertained by agreement, sale, or in such other manner as the bankrupt court might
direct. The assignee is not required to take measures for the
sale of mortgaged property, unless its value is greater than the
incumbrance. His duties relate chiefly to unsecured creditors,
and he need not trouble himself about incumbered property,
unless something may be realized out of it on their account, or
unless it becomes necessary to do so in order to ascertain the
rights of the secured creditor in the general estate. If he does.
and it becomes necessary to adjust the liens before his sale,
he may, under the ruling in Claflin v. Houseman, institute
the necessary proceedings for that purpose in the courts of
the United States, or of the State, as he chooses. If he does
not, the secured creditor who wishes to make his security available must act; and, having obtained leave of the bankrupt
court to bring his action for that purpose, he may proceed
in the State court, if the assignee does not object, or in the
courts of the United States, at his election. Here the necessary leave to sue was obtained before the decree was rendered,
and the assignee, instead of objecting to the jurisdicfion of the
State court, consented to that mode of proceeding. The bankrupt and his wife alone objected; but as to them, as we held
in EByster v. Gaff, the jurisdiction of the State court was not
divested by the proceedings in bankruptcy.
Judgment affirmed.

