PRESTON V. PRESTON.

[Sup. Ct.

PRESTON V. PRESTON.
1. A contract for the conveyance of lands, which a court of equity will specifically enforce, must be certain in its terms, and the certainty required has
reference both to the description of the property and the estate to be conveyed. Accordingly, where the property could not be identified, specific
performance was denied.
2. Where one having such a contract permitted the other party to execute a
deed of trust of the lands to a trustee to secure certain indebtedness, with
a power to sell them, if necessary, for the payment of such indebtedness,
-Held, that he had waived his right to the conveyance, or, at least, had
subordinated it to the interest of the trustee and the purchasers under him.
3. The delay of a party in taking proceedings to enforce such a contract for a
period which would bar an action at law for the property is, except under
special circumstances, such laches as disentitle him to the aid of a court of
equity.

APPEAL, from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Western District of Virginia.

This is a suit brought in the court below, Jan. 8, 1873,
by John Preston, Jr., against Thomas L. Preston, James C.
Campbell, Arthur C. Cummings, William Alex. Stuart, and
George W. Palmer, for the specific performance of an agreement

made Aug. 30, 1847, for the conveyance of certain lands.
The court below dismissed the bill, whereupon the complain
ant appealed here.
The facts in the case are fully stated in the opinion of the
court.

Mr. William L. .Royall for the appellant.
lr.

Thomas J Kirkpatrick, contra.

MR. JusTicE FrLD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a suit to enforce the specific performance of an agreement for the conveyance of certain lands in Virginia.

It

appears from the record that in 1846 one Sarah B. Preston,
of Abingdon, in that State, died possessed of a large amount
of real property, embracing the premises in controversy. By
her last will and testament, which was duly probated, she made
the following devise: "I give and devise to my three sons, William C. Preston, John
S. Preston, and Thomas L. Preston, and to their several heirs for
ever, my salt-works estate, embracing and includinz therein as well

Oct. 1877.]

PRESTON V. PRESTON.

the original and principal tract containing the wells, as all the additions subsequently acquired, and all my lands of every description,
whether cleared or woodland, either adjacent to or in the vicinity
of the salt-works estate, in the counties of Smyth and Washington."
Upon the property thus devised the testator charged the payment of certain legacies to the amount of $80,000. She also
made her three sons her residuary devisees. In August of the
following year, John S. Preston, one of the devisees, by an
agreement in writing sold to his brother, Thomas L. Preston, all the interest which he had acquired under the will
in the salt-works estate and adjoining lands and as residuary
devisee.
It would appear from the recitals in the deed of trust made
to secure the purchase-money, as hereafter mentioned, that a
conveyance of the property was on the same day executed and
delivered to Thomas L. Preston in conformity with this agreement, though it was never placed on record. In consideration
of this sale, and of the transfer of certain partnership claims
and other personal property, Thomas L. Preston agreed to pay
John S. Preston $50,000 on or before the first day of January,
1860, with interest, and to secure the same by a mortgage or
deed of trust of the property; to assume the payment of the
legacies charged upon the salt-works estate; to indemnify his
brother against liability for the debts of sundry partnerships
of which he was a member, and to convey to him a tract of land
described as "adjoining the salt-works estate, containing about
three hundred and fifty acres, and known as the Campbellsville
tract, and also a sufficient quantity of other lands adjoining the
said tract, to make up the quantity of five hundred acres of
land." In compliance with this agreement, and on the same
day, Thomas L. Preston executed a deed of trust of the real
property to a trustee to secure the payment of the $50,000 and
interest. But no conveyance of the Campbellsville tract and
adjoining lands was ever made by him to his brother; and it
is to compel such conveyance that the present suit is brought.
The complainant acquired whatever interest he possesses in the
land by purchase from John S. Preston in 1870.
To the maintenance of this suit there are insuperable objections. In the first place, the property of which a conveyance

PRESTON V. PRESTON.

LSup. Ot.

is sought has not been identified; and it would seem that at this
day it is incapable of identification. Numerous witnesses were
called to testify as to the locality and bounds of the Campbellsville tract; but no one of them could speak with knowledge on
the subject. Most of them could give only impressions. Old
residents in the neighborhood had never heard of the tract, and
no deed or record could be found which referred to any property by that name. The bill, it is true, alleges that the tract
was well known and distinguished from other parts of the saltworks estate, and could be easily marked out by metes and
bounds; but no proof supported the allegation. The two Prestons, between whom the. agreement was made, were examined
in the case; and, though they stated that the tract could be
easily identified, they both failed to show with any certainty
what and where it was, further than that it was a part of the
estate lying north of Holston River. But north of that river
lay between seven and eight hundred acres, equally a portion
of that estate, and no separation of the part sold from the rest
was shown. Until the Campbellsville tract could be identified,
adjoining lands could not be selected to make up the stipulated
five hundred acres. It may be doubted whether, even in a controversy between the original parties, a court of equity would
compel the execution of a conveyance with the vague description
of the agreement. But as here the whole property, of which
the land sold constitutes only a portion, had passed for a valuable consideration to third parties, it was essential that the complainant, seeking to enforce a conveyance from them, should,
be able to point out with distinctness the property which he
claimed. It is a familiar rule in this branch of the law that
a contract, which a court of equity will specifically enforce,
must be certain as well as fair in its terms; and the certainty
required has reference both to the description of the property
and the estate to be conveyed. Uncertainty as to either, not
capable of being removed by extrinsic evidence, is fatal to any
suit for a specific performance.
In the second place, John S. Preston virtually consented to
a sale of the premises in controversy. Although his brother
upon his purchase had agreed to convey back to him this portion of the estate, he at once transferred the whole property to

Oct. 1877.]

PRESTON V. PRESTON.

a trustee to secure the purchase-money. To this transfer John
made no objection, either to the form of the deed of trust or to
its contents. Executed as it was for his security, it will be
presumed to have been edecuted with his knowledge. If he
had any objection to the use made of the property, it was
his duty to declare it at the time. Silence then was acquiescence.
Subsequently, i* April, 1848, the other brother, William C.
Preston, for the consideration of $25,000, also conveyed his
interest in the estate to Thomas L. Preston; and in January,
1850, the latter executed to the same trustee a deed of trust
of the interest thus acquired and his previous interest to secure
the purchase-money. In July, 1859, having become embarrassed,
he made a general deed of trust, by which he conveyed the
entire salt-works estate, and adjoining lands and other property, to a new trustee, in trust, among other things, to secure
the payment of incumbrances and liens upon the property held
by John S. Preston, amounting to about $110,000, and by
William C. Preston, amounting to about $25,000. In June,
1862, this new trustee sold the property, with other interests,
to Stuart, Palmer, and Parker for the consideration of $425,000,
and soon afterwards they went into its possession. Neither to
this deed of trust did John S. Preston make any objection in
respect either to its form or contents; and for years afterwards
he received from the trustee large sums of money. Under
these circumstances, he must be held to have waived any right
to a conveyance of the Campbellsville tract, whatever that
might have been, and adjoining lands, or at least to have subordinated it to that of the trustees named in the deeds of trust
and of purchasers under them.
In the third place, the present suit is brought too late. By
the law of Virginia, the limitation to real actions for land lying
west of the Alleghany Mountains is ten years. By analogy
with that law, a court of equity will, under circumstances like
the present, treat as barred within the same period a suit
for the conveyance of lands situated as these are in that part of
the State. That period had elapsed after the purchase of the
defendants before this suit was instituted, and more than a
quarter of a century had passed since the contract was made

[Sup. Ct.

BATES V. CLARIK.

the enforcement of which is sought. The delay of one to this
extent in prosecuting his rights under a contract is, except
under special circumstances not existing here, such laches as
disentitle him to the aid of a court of equity.
Decree affirmed.
0

BATES v. CLARK.
1. In the absence of any different provision by treaty or by act of Congress, all
the country described by the first section of the act of June 30, 1834 (4 Stat.
729), as Indian country, remains such only as long as the Indians retain their
title to the soil.
2. Whatever may be the rule in time of war and in the presence of actual hostilities, military officers can no more protect themselves than civilians for
wrongs committed in time of peace under 'orders emanating from a source
which is itself without authority in the premises. Hence a military officer,
seizing liquors supposed to be in Indian country when they are not, is liable
to an action as a trespasser.
3. The difference between the value of the goods so seized, at the place where
they were taken and the place where they were returned to the owners, is
the proper measure of damages.

to the Supreme Court of the Territory of Dakota.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
ERROR

Mr. Assistant Attorney- General .Smith for the plaintiffs in
error.
Mr. John B. Sanborn, contra.
MR. JUSTICE MUJLER delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff in error, Bates, was a captain in the army of
the United States, in command at Fort Seward, in the Territory of Dakota, near the crossing of the James River by the
North Pacific Railroad; and Yeckley, the other plaintiff in
error, was a lieutenant under him at the time of the commission of the trespass for which the judgment in this case was
recovered against them. The defendants in error, plaintiffs
below, were doing a general mercantile business on the James
River, also near said crossing, when a lot of whiskey, part of
their stock of goods, was seized by defendants. They brought
this action to recover damages for the trespass. The defendants pleaded their official character, that the plaue where the

