Oct. 1877.]

U. S. v. 200

UNITED STATES

BARRELS OF WHISKEY.

v. Two HUNDRED

BARRELS OF WHiSKEY.

1. Distilled spirits, owned by and found upon the premises of a rectifier or wholesale liquor-dealer, cannot be seized as forfeited to the United States, under
sect. 96 of the "Act imposing taxes on distilled spirits," &c., approved July
20, 1868 (16 Stat. 164), because such rectifier or wholesale liquor-dealer has
knowingly and wilfully neglected, omitted, or refused to cause packages of
distilled spirits containing more than twenty gallons each, filled for shipment
or sale on his premises, to be gauged, inspected, and stamped, in accordance
with the provisions of sect. 25 of the same act.
2. The rules and regulations which the Commissioner of Internal Revenue is
authorized by sect. 2 of that act (id. 125) to prescribe, may aid in carrying
the law into execution; but they cannot change its positive provisions.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana.
April 18, 1874, the property in controversy in this suit, said
to be owned by one Karstendiek, was seized, as forfeited to the
United States, by the collector of internal revenue for the first
collection district of Louisiana; and it was at once libelled by
the United States attorney for Louisiana, who, on the twentyseventh day of March, 1875, filed an amended libel, setting out
the causes of seizure and forfeiture in these words, viz. -

"For that the said Karstendiek, at the time and place of seizure
of said property as aforesaid, being, and for more than six months
prior thereto having been, a rectifier of distilled spirits, and, as such,
having paid the special tax required by the statute of the United
States, and being then and there on said premises engaged in and
carrying on the business of rectifier as aforesaid, for and during the
time and period aforesaid, did, on the fifth day of January, 1874,
and at divers other times and dates during the period of six months
aforesaid, the precise times and dates whereof are to the said attorney unknown, fill for shipment, sale, and delivery, on his said rectifying premises, a large number of casks, barrels, and packages with
distilled spirits, the precise number whereof being to the said attorney unknown, each and every which said casks and packages, so
filled as aforesaid, then and there did contain, respectively, more
than twenty gallons of distilled spirits, and did then and there, as
to each and all of said casks and packages aforesaid, wilfully and
knowingly omit, neglect, and refuse to procure and cause, as by
the statute of the said United States he was then and there to do,
in carrying on 'snd conducting his said business of rectifier as afore-

U. S. v. 200

BARRELS OF WHISKEY.

[Sup. Ct.

said, a United States gauger to then and there gauge and inspect
the said casks and packages, and to place thereon the stamps required by law, contrary to the form of the statute of the United
States in such case made and provided, by reason whereof, and by
force of the statutes of the United States in such case made and
provided, all the said distilled spirits hereinbefore enumerated
and described, found and seized at the time and place aforesaid,
and so owned by the said Karstendiek aforesaid, at the time and
under the circumstances aforesaid, became forfeited to the United
States.
"For that the said Karstendiek, at the time and place of seizure
of said property as aforesaid, being, and for more than six months
prior thereto having been, a wholesale liquor-dealer as aforesaid,
for and during the time and period aforesaid, did, on the fifth day
of January, 1874, and at divers other times and dates during the
period of six months aforesaid, the precise times and dates whereof
are to the said attorney unknown, fill for shipment, sale, and delivery, on his said premises, a large number of casks, barrels, and
packages with distilled spirits, the precise number whereof being to
the said attorney unknown, each and every which said casks and
packages, so filled as aforesaid, then and there did contain, respectively, more than twenty gallons of distilled spirits, and did then and
there, as to each and all of said casks and packages aforesaid, wilfully and knowingly omit, neglect, and refuse to procure and cause,
as by the statute of the said United States he was then and there to
do, in carrying on and conducting his said business of wholesale
liquor-dealer as aforesaid, a United States gauiger then and there to
gauge and inspect the said casks and packages, and to place thereon
the stamps required by law, contrary to the form of the statute of
the United States in such case made and provided, by reason
whereof, and by force of the statutes of the United States in such
case made and provided, all the said distilled spirits hereinbefore
enumerated and described, found and seized at the time and place
aforesaid, and so owned by the said Karstendiek aforesaid, at the
time and under the circumstances aforesaid, became forfeited to the
United States."
Twenty-five barrels of the whiskey seized were never the property of Karstendiek, but were claimed by and found to belong
to other parties. All the claimants demurred to the information, upon the ground that neither count set forth or alleged
any facts warranting the seizure or forfeiture of the liquors,

Oct. 1877.]

U. S. v. 200

BARRELS OF WHISKEY.

The demurrer was sustained and the information dismissed.
The case was then brought here.
31r. Assistant Attorney-General Smnth for the United States.
Mr. J. D. Rouse, contra.
Mnt. C=IE1 JusTICE, WAITE delivered the opinion of the court.
This case presents the question, whether property owned by
tind found upon the premises of a rectifier or wholesale liquordealer can be seized as forfeited to the United States, under
sect. 96 of the "Act imposing taxes on distilled spirits," &c.,
passed July 20, 1868, 15 Stat. 164, because such rectifier or
wholesale liquor-dealer has knowingly and wilfully neglected,
omitted, or refused to cause packages of distilled spirits contain
ing more than twenty gallons each, filled for shipment or sale on
his premises, to be gauged, inspected, and stamped, in accordance with the provisions of sect. 25 of the same act.
Sect. 25 provides, that whenever any cask or package of
rectified spirits shall be filled for shipment, sale, or delivery on
the premises of any rectifier who shall have paid the special
tax required by law, it shall be the duty of a United States
gauger to gauge and inspect the same, and place thereon an
engraved stamp of a particular kind; and whenever any cask
or package of distilled spirits shall be filled for the same purpose on the premises of any wholesale liquor-dealer, it shall be
the duty of the United States gauger to gauge, inspect, and
stamp the same in a like manner.
Sect. 96 provides, "that if any . .. rectifier or wholesale
liquor-dealer .. .shall knowingly and wilfully omit, neglect,
or refuse to do, or cause to be done, any of the things required
by law to be done in the carrying on or conducting of his business, or shall do any thing by this act prohibited, if there be no
specific penalty or punishment imposed by any other section
for the neglecting, omitting, or refusing to do, or for the doing
or causing to be done, the thing required or prohibited, he
shall pay a penalty of $1,000, and . . .all distilled spirits
or liquors owned by him, or in which he has any interest as
owner, . : . shall be forfeited to the United States."
Sect. 57 provides, that " all distilled spirits found, after thirty
days from the time this act takes effect, in any cask or package

574

U. S. v. 200

BARRELS OF WHISKEY.

[Sup. Ct.

containing five gallons or more, without having thereon each
mark and stamp required therefor by this act, shall be forfeited
to the United States."
Sect. 25 does not specifically impose the duty upon the rectifier or wholesale dealer of causing or procuring the filled casks
to be gauged, inspected, or stamped. It is made the duty of
the gauger to do the gauging, inspecting, and stamping, but not,
in terms of the dealer, to cause it to be done. If there were
nothing more, it would be clear that any omission of the recti
fier or dealer to act in the matter would not be a cause of forfeiture. Sect. 96 was, however, undoubtedly intended to impose
upon rectifiers and wholesale liquor-dealers the duty of doing,
or causing to be done, every thing pertaining to their respective
occupations which was necessary, in order to enable others acting under the law to do what was required of them. If they
failed in this, and there was no other penalty provided for the
neglect, they were subjected to the provisions of that section.
If, however, by any other section a specific duty was imposed
on them, which, if performed, would enable the other parties to
act in the proper manner, and a penalty was prescribed for the
omission to perform such duty, they were not to be proceeded
against under sect. 96. It was not intended by Congress in that
section to add to the already-existing penalties for an offence,
but to provide for omitted cases only. The object evidently
was to so contrive the machinery of the law that when one part
was set in motion the rest must follow.
If, then, it is found that by some other section of the act a
penalty is imposed upon the rectifier or wholesale dealer, as a
consequence of the failure of the gauger to stamp the casks
filled on his premises for shipment, sale, or delivery, it may
fairly be presumed that this was the penalty he was to suffer
for neglecting to procure the stamping to be done; for the
gauging and inspecting, under the law, are only preliminary to
the stamping. The only neglect he could be charged with
under sect. 96 would be a failure to make known at the proper
office that there were on his premises packages requiring the
action of the gauger, under sect. 25. Now, sect. 57 provides,
that if packages of distilled spirits are found on his premises
containing five gallons or more each, which do not have upon

Oct. 1877.]

U. S. v. 200

BARRELS OF WHISKEY.

them each mark or stamp required by the law, they shall be
forfeited. This, then, is a specific penalty provided for'the failure to procure or cause the stamping to be done on packages of
five gallons and upward; and it follows the packages wherever
found. The unstamped packages in this case contained each
twenty gallons or more.
It has been contended, however, that this special provision
of sect. 57 applies only to distilled spirits on hand when the
act of 1868 was passed. Such seems to have been the opinion
of Judge Ballard, of the Kentucky district, as reported in the
case of United States v. Thirty-seven Barrels of Apple Brandy,
11 Int. Rev. Rec. 136 ; but since that time, in 1871, Judge
Lowell, of the Massachusetts district, has decided the other
way. United States v. NYinety-five Barrels of -Distilled Spirits,
14 id. 6. Judge Knowles, of the Rhode Island district, afterwards followed this riling of Judge Lowell. United States v.
Thirty-four Barrels Distilled Spirits, 13 id. 188. Other able
district judges have decided that sect. 96 did apply to this class
of omissions, but it nowhere appears from their opinions that
their attention was called to the provision of sect. 57. United
States v. One Rectifying Establishment, 11 id. 45, decided in
1869, in the northern district of Mississippi, and United States
v. One Hundred and Thirty-three Casks Distilled Spirits, id.
191, decided not long after in the California district. The
circuit judge in this case has decided in accordance with the
opinions of Judges Lowell and Knowles, and held that sect. 57
did apply. The rulings of two commissioners of internal revenue are to the same effect, one dated Sept. 10, 1869, 10 id. 97,
and the other, May 13,1871, 13 id. 170; and it seems to us that
this is the proper construction of the law. It is true that the
clause referred to is found in a section of the statute which
relates especially to spirits on hand when the law was passed;
but it is general in its terms, and broad enough to cover the
case. As was well said by Judge Lowell in the case against
ninety-five barrels of distilled spirits, "to limit the meaning
will not only require us to read 'act' as if it were ' section,' but
to disregard ' each; ' because there is but one particular stamp
required by this section, and this would naturally be mentioned
Ias the stamp required by the section,' or some such expres&

RAILROAD

Co. v.

DURANT.

[Sup. Ct.

sion." And again, as is also said by the same judge, "It is
proper and usual that the goods which are not stamped should
be forfeited, and it is so provided in respect to cigars and
tobacco, by sects. 70 and 90 ; but there is no provision for forfeiting unstamped spirits, unless it be the one in question."
The rules and regulation which the Commissioner of Internal Revenue is authorized by sect. 2 to prescribe cannot have
the effect of bringing the case under the operation of the penalty provided in sect. 96, if it was already covered by sect. 57.
The regulations of the department cannot have the effect of
amending the law. They may aid in carrying the law as it
exists into execution, but they cannot change its positive provisions.
Decree affirmed.

RA,RoAD CompAxy

v. DURANT.

I. Where a conveyance of real estate is made to the grantee, as "trustee," without setting forth for whom or for what purpose he is trustee, parol evidence
is admissible to establish the fact.
2. A trustee cannot claim adversely to those for whom he acquired and holds the
property.

APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Nebraska.
This was a bill in equity by the Union Pacific Railroad
Company against Thomas C. Durant, to compel his conveyance
to the company of certain lots and lands.
The case made by the complainant, in its bill, is substantially
this: That in the month of November, 1863, the Union Pacific
Railroad Company, having commenced surveys at or in the
vicinity of Omaha, for the purpose of ascertaining the best
point for the location of the eastern terminus of its road, and
the most practicable route thence westward, certain citizens of
Omaha proposed to the engineer in charge of said surveys to
convey to the defendant, the then vice-president and principal
managing officer and agent of the company, for its use, certain
tracts of lands and certain lots therein described, "said conveyances to be made conditional upon the location of the said eastern
terminus within one and a quarter miles of Farnham Street,

