YEATMAN V. SAVINGS INSTITUTION.

[Sup. ut.

"from such date," have reference to the action of the Secretary,
and to nothing else.
Judgment reversed, and cause remanded with directions to dismiss the petition.

YEATMIAN V. SAVINGS INSTITUTION.
1. Except where, within a prescribed period before the commencement of proceedings in bankruptcy, an attachment has been sued out against the property of the bankrupt, or where his disposition of his property was, under the
statute, fraudulent and void, his assignees take his real and personal estate,
subject to all equities, liens, and incumbrances thereon, whether created Ly
his act or by operation of law.
2. Until he shall be paid, the pledgee is entitled to the possession of the property which he holds under a valid pledge as security for his debt against
the pledgors, notwithstanding a subsequent adjudication of bankruptcy
against them ; and his refusal to surrender it to their assignees is not a
conversion of it.
8. The failure of the pledgee to appear and prove his claim in the bankruptcy
court forfeits only his right to participate in the distribution of the bankrupt's estate ordered by that court.

ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Louisiana.
On the 22d of July, 1871, O'Fallon & Iatch, a firm doing
business at St. Louis, delivered, in pledge, to the New Orleans
Savings Institution, a corporation created by the laws of Louisiana, having its place of business in New Orleans, two certificates of indebtedness issued by that State, each for the sum of
$5,000, to secure the payment of a promissory note of the firm
for $5,000, dated July 21, 1871, made payable to its own order
on the 21st of January, 1872, and by it indorsed in blank. It
is conceded that the corporation acquired the note and the
certificates of indebtedness in due course of business, and for
a valuable consideration. The firm and the individuals composing it were, Nov. 27, 1871, adjudged bankrupts by the District Court of the United States for the Eastern District of
Missouri; and, upon the application of creditors, a receiver of
the estate and effects of the bankrupts was, by an ex parte order,
appointed, with authority to demand and receive all property of
every kind and description belonging to them.

Oct. 1877.]

YEATMAN V. SAVINGS INSTITUTI01f.

76b

An assignee in bankruptcy was afterwards appointetl, to
whom was conveyed, in the prescribed mode, all the real and
personal estate of the bankrupts. First the receiver, and subsequently the assignee, each claiming to act uider the authority
of that court, demanded of the corporation, in the city of New
Orleans, the surrender of the certificates. That demand, repeated more than once, and accompanied by copies of the
orders of that court, was uniformly met with a refusal to surrender them, except upon the payment of the note for which
they had been pledged. The corporation, by its president,
expressed its willingness to surrender them, or have them sold,
if an amount sufficient to pay the note was left in New Orleans,
with the agent of the receiver and assignee, until proof of its
debt should be made in the bankruptcy court. Neither the
receiver nor the assignee assented to such an arrangement,
but insisted upon the right to the actual custody of the certificates pending the proceedings in bankruptcy. The assignee,
upon one occasion, authorized the president of the corporation to sell them, at not less than sixty-eight cents on the
dollar, and retain the proceeds, without prejudice to the rights
of either party, until the claim of the institution should be
proven before a register in bankruptcy, and allowed. But a
sale could not be made at that limit, and the authority to sell
was withdrawn.
The corporation did not become a party to the proceedings
in bankruptcy by proving its debt, or in any other mode.
This action by the assignee in bankruptcy, to recover of the
corporation the value of the certificates, was based upon the
ground that, by its refusal to surrender possession of them, it
had converted them to its own use, and become liable therefor.
The corporation insisted that, having obtained the certificates in due course of business, and for a valuable consideration, it was entitled to hold them until the note should be fully
paid.
There was a finding in favor of the corporation; and, judgment having been rendered thereon, Yeatman sued out this
writ of error.
3'. Gicen Campbell for the plaintiff in error.
.11r. Thomas Allen Clarke for the defendant in error.

YEATMAN v. SAVINGS INSTITUTION.

[Sup. Ct.

MR. JUSTICE HARLAN delivered the opinion of the court.

Counsel for the plaintiff in error has raised numerous questions for our consideration, which, under the view we take of the
case, it is not necessary to determine. The sole question which,
under the pleadings, it seems essential to decide, is, whether
the savings institution, by its refusal to surrender the certificates, can be held to have converted them to its own use.
We are of opinion that this question must receive a negative answer. The savings institution, by virtue of the pledge,
acquired a special property in the certificates, and, until the
payment of the note for 85,000, was not bound to return them
either to the bankrupt, the receiver, or the assignee in bankruptcy. Such are, beyond doubt, its rights at common law, as
-well as under the Code of Louisiana, which declares that "the
creditor who is in possession of the pledge can only be compelled to return it when he has received the whole payment of
the principal as well as the interest and costs." Rev. Code La.,
sect. 8164.
These rights were not affected by any of the provisions of
the bankrupt law. The established rule is, that, except in cases
of attachments against the property of the bankrupt within a
prescribed time preceding the commencement of proceedings
in bankruptcy, and except in cases where the disposition of
property by the bankrupt is declared by law to be fraudulent
and void, the assignee takes the title subject to all equities,
liens, or incumbrances, whether created by operation of law
or by act of the bankrupt, which existed against the property
in the hands of the bankrupt. Brown v. ffeathcote, 1 Atk.
160; Mitehell v. Winslow, 2 Story, 630; Gibson v. Warden,
14 Wall. 244; Cook v. Tullis, 18 id. 332; -Donaldson,Assignee,
v. Farwell et al., 93 U. S. 631; Jerome v. ieCarter, 94 id
734. He takes the property in the same "plight and condition" that the bankrupt held it. Winsor v. iJIc~ellan,2 Story,
492. In Goddard v. Weaver, 1 Wood, 260, it was well said that
the assignee "takes only the bankrupt's interest in property.
He has no right or title to the interest which other parties
have therein, nor any control over the same, further than is expressly given to him by the Bankrupt Act, as auxiliary to the
preservation of the bankrupt estate for the benefit of his cred-

Oct. 1877.]

YEATTAN V. SAVINGS LNSTITUTION.

itors. It would be absurd to contend that the assignee in bankruptcy became ip8o facto seised and possessed in entirety, as
trustee, of every article of property in which the bankrupt has
any interest or share."
These views find direct support in more than one provision
of the Bankrupt Act. Among the rights which vest at once in
the assignee by virtue of the adjudication in bankruptcy, and
of his appointment as such assignee, is the right to redeem
the property or estate of the bankrupt. Act of 1867, sect. 14;
Rev. Stat., sect. 5046. And, in order that it may be exercised
for the benefit of creditors, the assignee is given express authority, "under the order and direction of the court, to redeem
and discharge any mortgage or conditional contract, or pledge,
or deposit, or lien upon any property, real or personal, whenever
payable, and to tender due performance of the condition thereof,
or to sell the same subject to such mortgage, lien, or other in
cumbrance." Act of 1867, sect. 14; Rev. Stat., sect. 5066. This
is a distinct recognition of the rights of the pledgee as against
the assignee. Of course, where the pledge is in fraud of the
bankrupt law, and consequently void, the assignee may disregard the contract of pledge, and recover the property for the
benefit of creditors. Not so where the pledge, as in this case,
was made in good faith, for a valuable consideration, and not in
violation of the provisions of the bankrupt law.
The savings institution, therefore, incurred no liability by its
refusal to surrender the certificates upon the demand of the
receiver or the assignee. Such refusal affords no evidence of a
conversion of them to its use.
Nor was its right to hold them impaired by its failure to
appear in the bankruptcy court, or its refusal to prove its debt,
in the customary form, against the estate of the bankrupts. The
only effect of such refusal was to lose the privilege of participating in such distribution of the estate as might be ordered
by that court. It had the right to forego that advantage, and
look for ultimate security wholly to the certificates which it
held under a valid pledge. If the assignee regarded them as of
greater value than the debt for which they had been pledged,
or if the interest of the creditors required prompt action, he
had authority, under the statute and the orders of the court, to

768

YEATMAN V. SAVINGS INSTITUTION.

[Sup. Ct.

tender performance of the contract of pledge, or to discharge
the debt for which the certificates were held. He had the
right, perhaps, under the orders of the court, to sell them, sub,ject to the claim of the defendant in error. If he desired a sale
of them, and a distribution of the proceeds, or if he doubted
the validity of the pledge, he could have instituted an action
against the corporation in some court of competent jurisdiction
in Louisiana, and thereby obtained a judicial determination of
the rights of the parties. But none of these obvious modes of
proceeding were adopted. The receiver and assignee seem to
have acted throughout upon the theory that they had the right,
immediately upon and by virtue of the adjudication in bankruptcy, to assume control of all property of every kind and
description, wherever held, in which the bankrupt had an interest, without reference either to the just possession of others,
lawfully acquired, prior to the commencement of proceedings
in bankruptcy, or to the liens, incumbrances, or equities which
existed against the property at the time of the adjudication in
bankruptcy. We have seen that such a theory is unsupported
by law.
The conclusions we have announced render it unnecessary to
consider any other questions raised in the case.
Judgment affirmed.
IsoTE. - In Yeatman v. Butler, Yeatman v. Turndl, Yeatman v. Smith, and Yeato
man v. Gener~s, error to the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Louisiana, which were argued by the same counsel as was the preceding case,
IR. JUsTIcE HRaLAN, in delivering the opinion of the court, remarked, that
the same questions of law which arose in them had been determined in Yeatman
v. Savinqs Institution, supra, p. 764, and that the ruling in that case controlled
Judgment in each case aff rmed.
them.

