KELLY V. CALHOUI.[

[Sup. C

KELLY v. CA IOUN.
I The formula prescribed by the laws of Tennessee for the acknowledgment
of deeds is: "Personally appeared before me ...
the within-named bargainor, with whom I am personally acquainted, and who acknowledged that
he executed the within instrument for the purposes therein contained."
Held, that a certificate of an officer taking the acknowledgment of the grantor
in a deed of trust, in which the officer certifies that said grantor is "person.
ally known" to him, is a compliance with the statute.
2. To be "personally acquainted with" and to "know personally" are, in such
a certificate, equivalent phrases.
3. There is no statutory provision in Tennessee as to the execution or acknowledgment of deeds by a corporation. In such cases, its officer affixing its seal
is the party executing the deed, within the meaning of the statutes requiring
deeds to be acknowledged by the grantor.

AP:PEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Western District of Tennessee.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Hr. S. P. Valcer for the appellants.
Mr. Josiah Patterson,contra.
MR. JUSTICE SwAY

delivered the opinion of the court.

The appellees, Calhoun and Meyer, are the grantees in a
deed of trust covering the Paducah and Memphis Railroad,
which has its northern terminus at Paducah, Ky., and its
southern at Memphis, Tenn. A corporation known as the
Paducah and Memphis Railroad Company, and authorized to
build the road, executed the deed of trust to secure the payment of certain liabilities therein described. The deed, bearing date the first day of February, 1872, was aelnowledged the
fifth of that month, and duly lodged for record in the proper
office in Shelby County the 9th of March in the same year.
The company made default in the payment of the interest on
the bonds intended to be secured by the deed; and Calhoun
and Meyer, the trustees, thereupon filed this bill to enforce its
provisions. The Circuit Court placed the road yendente lite
in the hands of a receiver.
After this was done, the appellants, Kelly and others, procured leave to intervene, and filed their joint petition. It sets
forth the facts already stated, and that the petitioners severally

Oct. 187T.]

KELLY v. CALHOUN.

recovered judgment against the company in the first Circuit
Court of Shelby County, at the following dates: on the 9th of
January; on the 27th of January; on the 25th of .May, and
on the 13th of October, in the year 1875; and on the 26th of
January, and on the 3d of June, 1876. It further alleges that
the certificate of the proof and acknowledgment of the deed of
trust is fatally defective, and that their judgments are, therefore, the first lien upon the premises. They pray to be permitted to levy executions, that the premises may be sold
under the order of the court, that the proceeds may be applied
in payment of their several judgments, and for general relief.
Leave was given to them to levy, but not to sell. They levied
accordingly. The deed and certificate alleged to be defective
are set out in full. Calhoun and Meyer demurred. The Circuit Court held the certificate good, sustained the demurrer,
and dismissed the bill.
The deed was well executed. The testatum clause sets
forth that the company had caused its corporate seal to be
affixed, and the instrument to be signed by its president and
secretary, which appear on its face to have been done. The
sealing and delivery were attested by two subscribing witnesses.
Angell & A. on Corp., sect. 225.
The attack is confined to the certificate of acknowledgment,
which, less the caption and official signatures affixed, is as
follows : "Be it remembered, that on this fifth day of February, 1872,
before me, Charles Nettleton, a commissioner, resident in the city
of New York, duly commissioned and qualified by the executive
authority and under the laws of the State of Tennessee to take
acknowledgments of deeds, &c., to be used or recorded therein,
personally appeared Ex. Norton, the president of the Paducah
and Memphis Railroad Company, and Henry L. Jones, the secretary
of said company, who are personally known to me to be such; and
who, being by me duly sworn, did depose and say that he, the said
Ex. Norton, resided in the city, county, and State of New York;
that he, the said Henry L. Jones, resided in Paducah, in the State
of Kentucky; that he, the said Norton, was president of the said
Paducah and Memphis Railroad Company; that he, the said Jones,
was secretary of the said company; that they knew the corporate

K[ELLY V. CALHOUN.

[Sup. Ct.

seal of said company; that the seal affixed to the foregoing instrument, purporting to be the corporate seal of said company, was
such corporate seal; that it was affixed thereto by order of the
board of directors of said company, and that they signed their
names thereto by the like order, as the president and secretary of
said company, respectively; and the said Ex. Norton and Henry
L. Jones also acknowledged to me that they executed said instrument as their act and deed, and the act and deed of said company,
for the uses and purposes therein mentioned. And, at the same
time and place, before me, also personally appeared Philo C. Calhoun and L. H. Meyer, also parties to the foregoing instrument,
with each of whom I am personally acquainted, who severally
acknowledged that they executed the within instrument for the
purposes therein mentioned."
The law of Tennessee requires deeds for the conveyance of
lands, "in what manner or form soever drawn," to be "acknowledged by the maker, or proved by two subscribing
witnesses, at least."
Code, sects. 2005-2038. Where the
instrument is acknowledged, the prescribed formula, omitting
the caption, is, "Personally appeared before me, clerk (or
deputy-clerk) of the county court of said county, the withinnamed bargainor, with whom I am personally acquainted, and
who acknowledged that he executed the within instrument for
the purposes therein contained." Sect. 2042. If the acknowledgment be taken without the State, by one of the officers
designated in sect. 2043, the same formula must be followed.
Bone v. Greenlee, 1 Coldw. (Tenn.) 29; Mullins v. Aikens,
2 Heisk. (Tenn.) 535.
There is no statutory provision in Tennessee as to the execution or acknowledgment of deeds by corporations. In such
cases, the officer affixing the seal is the party executing the
deed, within the meaning of the statutes requiring deeds to be
acknowledged by the grantor. Lovett v. The Steam Saw-Mill
Association, 6 Paige (N. Y.), 54. In the formula we have
quoted, both the phrases "personally appeared" and "with
whom I am personally acquainted " are found. It has been
held by the Supreme Court of the State that the latter means
more than the former, and that personal knowledge is indispensable. Bat it has been also held that a substantial compli

Oct. 1877.]

KELLY V. CALHOUN.

713*

ance with the statute is all that is required. Johnson v. Walton,
1 Sneed (Tenn.), 258; yall et al. v. 1oper, 3 Head (Tenn.),
485; see also Farquharsonv. ]cDonald, 2 Heisk. (Tenn.) 404.
And such is the rule laid down by this court. Carpenterv. -Dexter, 8 Wall. 513. The certificate here in question sets forth:
"Before me," &c., "personally appeared Ex. Norton, the
president of the Paducah and Memphis Railroad Co., and
Henry L. Jones, the secretary of the same company, who are
personally known to me to be such, and," &c. To be "personally acquainted with" and to "know personally" are equivalent
phrases. Upon looking into the paragraph just quoted, two
points are found to be salient. It is certified, 1, that the
parties named appeared in person; 2, that they were personally known to the commissioner to be the incumbents of
the offices specified. He might have known them to be the
latter, by information derived from various sources, without
personal knowledge upon the subject. Such knowledge is
independent, and complete in itself. It might exist with or
without other information. Personal knowledge to the extent
certified necessarily included the personal identity of the officers,
as well as the incumbency of their offices. A defect of such
knowledge as to either point would be inconsistent with the
language used, and falsify the certificate. It can hardly be
doubted that the paragraph was meant to cover both points.
It is a reasonable and necessary construction to give it that
effect. Indeed, it involves no straining to hold that the phrase
"' personally known to me to be such" applies proprio vigore
to those named, alike individually and officially; in other
words, that the certifier meant that he personally knew them
to be such individuals and such officers. The certificate was
evidentli drawn with studied deliberation. It seems" to have
been intended to meet the requirements of the law both as to
proof of execution and acknowledgment without proof. In the
latter aspect we hold the certificate to be sufficient. In tbA
former, we have, therefore, no occasion to consider it.
Instruments like this should be construed, if it can be reasonably done, ut res magis valeat quam pereat. It should be
the aim of courts, in cases like this, to preserve and not to
destroy. Sir Matthew Hale said they should be astute to find

, T:t4

PENNOYER V. NEFF.

[Sup. CL.

means to make acts effectual, according to the honest intent of
the parties. Boe v. Tranmar, Willes, 682.
The second proposition relied upon by the counsel for the
appellees relates to the filing of their bill and the lis Pendens
before the judgments of the intervenors were recovered. The
conclusion at which we have arrived as to the certificate renders it unnecessary to consider this subject. Otherwise, it
would require grave consideration.
Decree affirmed.
MR.

JUSTICE

UIAiRLf did not sit in this case.

P~awroym v. NEF..
1. A statute of Oregon, after providing for service of summons upon parties or
their representatives, personally or at their residence, declares that when
service cannot be thus made, and the defendant, after due diligence, cannot be found within the State, and "that fact appears, by affidavit, to the
satisfaction of the court or judge thereof, and it, in like manner, appears
that a cause of action exists against the defendant, or that lie is a proper
party to an action relating to real property in the State, such court or judge
may grant an order that the service be made by publication of summons,
. . . when the defendant is not a resident of the State, but has property
therein, and the court has jurisdiction of the subject of the action,"-the
order to designate a newspaper of the county where the action is commenced
in which the publication shall be made, - and that proof of such publication shall be "the affidavit of the printer, or his foreman, or his principal
clerk." field, that defects in the affidavit for the order can only be taken
advantage of on appeal, or by some other direct proceeding, and cannot be
urged to impeach the judgment collaterally; and that the provision as to
proof of the publication is satisfied when the affidavit is made by the editor
of the paper.
2. A personal judgment is without any validity, if it be rendered by a State
court in an action upon a money-demand against a non-resident of the
State, who was served by a publication of summons, but upon whom no
personal service of process within the State was made, and who did not
appear; and no title to property passes by a sale under an execution issued
upon such a judgment.
8. The State, having within her territory property of a non-resident, may bold
and appropriate it to satisfy the claims of her citizens against him; and her
tribunals may inquire into his obligations to the extent necessary to control
the disposition of that property. If he has no property in the State, there
is nothing upon which her tribunals can adjudicate.
4. Substituted service by publication, or in any other authorized form, is sufficient to inform a non-resident of the object of proceedings taken, where

