ROEMER V. SIMON.

[Sup. Ct.

with their inhabitants was prohibited, except as specially
authorized under regulations of the Treasury Department, and
property which eluded the blockade was subject to seizure and
condemnation. The attention of the authorities was specially
directed to prevent the exportation of cotton, upon which the
insurgents chiefly relied to obtain the means for the continuance of their struggle. The plaintiff alleges that he paid
money and delivered goods to the defendants for the use of the
Confederate government, in order to obtain permission to violate this policy and legislation, and now he modestly asks that
he should be allowed in the courts of the United States to
recover damages from them because they took what he offered
for the permission.
The demurrer was properly sustained.
Judgment affirmea.

IROEAER v. SmBoN.
1. Letters-patent No. 56,801, issued July 81, 1866, to William Roemer, for an improvement in travelling-bags, cannot be sustained, as the thing patented was,
before his alleged invention, known and extensively used by others in this
country.
2. Where, after setting up the defence of prior knowledge and use of the thing
patented, and giving the names and residences of witnesses intended to be
called to prove the defence, the answer to a bill for the infringement of letters-patent alleges that the names and residences of certain other witnesses
are unknown to the defendant, and prays leave to insert and set forth in the
answer such names and residences when they shall be discovered, it is competent for the court to allow, upon such discovery, the amendment to be
made nunc pro tunc.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of New Jersey.
This is a suit by William Roemer against the appellee for
the infringement of letters-patent No. 56,801, granted to him
July 31, 1866, for an improvement in travelling-bags.
The answer set up among the defences the want of novelty
of the improvement, and the knowledge and use of it prior to
the alleged invention of the complainant.
Upon the final hearing, the court below dismissed the bill
whereupon the complainant appealed here.
The other facts are set forth in the opinion of the court.

Out. 1877.]

ROEMER V. SIMON.

3Mr. Arthur v. Briesen for the appellant.
Mr. -FredericH. Bett8, contra.
MR. JUSTICE CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.

Patentees or assignees in a suit for infringement, where the
patent described in the bill of complaint is introduced in evidence, are presumd to be the original and first inventors of
the described improvement ; and, if they have proved the alleged
infringement, the burden of proof is cast upon the respondents
to show that the patent is invalid, unless the patent is materially defective in form.
Parties defendants sued as infringers are not allowed, in an
action at law, to set up the defence of a prior invention, knowledge, or use of the thing patented, unless they have given
notice of such defence in writing thirty days before the trial,
and have stated in that notice "the names of the patentees and
the dates of their patents alleged to have been invented, and the
names and residences of the persons alleged to have invented or
to have had the prior knowledge of the thing patented, and
where and by whom it had been used." 16 Stat. 208; Rev.
Stat., sect. 4920 ; Seymour v. Osborne, 11 Wall. 516; Blanchard
v. Putnam, 8 id. 420.
Since the passage of the act of the 8th of July, 1870, the
regulation in equity suits is that defences such as are described
in sect. 61 of that act "may be pleaded in any equity suit for
relief against an alleged infringement, and that proof of the
same may be given upon like notice in the answer of the
respondent, and with like effect." 16 Stat. 208.
Service was made; and the respondents appeared and filed
an answer, in which they deny that they have ever in any way
infringed the letters-patent described in the bill of complaint;
and they also set up several other defences, as follows: 1. That
the specification filed in the Patent Office contains less than
the whole truth relative to the invention, or more than is
necessary to produce the described effect. 2. That the patent
was surreptitiously and unjustly obtained for that which was
in fact invented by another. 3. That the alleged invention
had been patented prior to the supposed invention by the complainant. 4. That. the alleged invention had been described in

RIOEMER v. SIMON.

[Sup. Ct.

a certain publication prior to the alleged invention by the patentee. 5. That the complainant was not the original and first
inventor of the supposed improvement; that the same had been
previously invented and known and used by the persons named
in the answer, and by many other persons whose names are unknown to the respondents, which, when discovered, the respondents pray leave to insert and set forth in the answer.
Proofs were taken on both sides; and the parties went to
hearing upon bill, answer, replication, and the proofs eihibited
in the record. Both parties were fully heard; and the court
entered a decree in favor of the respondents, dismissing the
bill of complaint; and the complainant appealed to this court.
Three errors are assigned, in substance and effect as follows:
1. That the court did not give due effect to the agreement
between the parties which was introduced in evidence by the
complainant. 2. That the evidence introduced by the respondents to prove use and knowledge of the thing patented prior to
the patent granted to the complainant was insufficient to establish that defence. 8. That the court erred in admitting evidence to prove such prior use and knowledge, of which no
notice had been given in the answer.
Questions not involved in the assignment of errors will be
passed over without examination.
1. By the articles of agreement, the respondents agree that
"they -will not manufacture or use the clasp or catch manufactured by a certain firm therein mentioned without the consent of the complainant, his executors, administrators, oi
assigns." They did not agree not to manufacture or use the
thing patented in the complainant's patent. Instead of that,
the charge in the bill of complaint is that the respondents
have manufactured and sold to others large quantities of travelling-bags in violation of the complainant's rights and privileges
under his letters-patent. Attempt is made to show that the
clasp or catch manufactured by the firm referred to in the
agreement is the same as that of the complainant; but that is a
question of fact open to controversy, which is sufficient to show
that the agreement does not work an estoppel, as supposed by
the respondents. Curtis on Patents (4th ed.), sect. 217.
Much reference to the specification is unnecessary, as the

Oct. 1877.]

OROEMER V. SIMON.

defence, that the respondents have not infringed the supposed
invention, is not pressed in the argument for the appellee. My
invention, says the patentee, consists in the application of two
staples or clamps, one at or near each end, to the frame of a
travelling-bag in such a manner that when the bag is packed
full the staples or clamps shall fasten the ends or corners together. In the same connection he also describes a mode of
fastening the staples or clamps to the frame of the bag by a
strap which passes over the centre of each staple; and he adds,
that the staple or clamp "is made of strong iron turned down
at each end." Sufficient description is given of the staple or
clamp ; but the strap is not described, except by being exhibited
in the drawings.
Clamps, the patentee admits, have before been applied to
small and fancy bags instead of a lock at or near the centre of
the frame, and therefore he does not claim the application of
clamps or staples broadly; but, says the patentee, what I claim
as my invention and desire to secure by letters-patent is a
frame for travelling-bags having staples and straps, meaning
the described staple and strap adjusted at the top thereof,
relieving the lock from strain, as combined, arranged, and
described.
Suffice it to say, that it is obvious from an inspection of the
specification that the real invention, if any, is in the staples or
clamps, and perhaps in the arrangement of two of them at the
top of the frame. Doubtless one method of arrangement may
be better than another; but the particular method of attachment to the frame cannot be very material, as any mechanic, if
furnished with the clamps, could affix the device in various
equivalent ways.
Five witnesses admitted to be credible were examined by the
respondents, whose testimony clearly shows that the thing
patented had been previously known and used very extensively
in this country by the persons named in the answer and by
many others.
Exclusive rights of the kind are granted only to inventors or
discoverers of some new and useful art, machine, manufacture,
or composition of matter, or some new and useful improvement
thereof ; and the law is wvell settled that nothing short of inven-

ROEMER V. SIMON.

[Sur). Ct.

tion or discovery will support a patent for any such alleged
new and useful improvement. Certain other important conditions are also annexed to the exercise of the right to obtain
such a muniment of title for such an invention or discovery ; as,
for example, the improvement must not only be new and useful, but it must be one not known or used by others in this
country and not patented, or described before the invention or
discovery in any printed publication in this or any foreign
country, and must not have been in public use or on sale more
than two years prior to the application for a patent. 16 Stat.
201; Rev. Stat. sect. 4886; Collar Company v. FVan Dusen, 23
Wall. 531 ; -Dunbarv. iMityers, 94 U. S. 196.
Antecedent patents here or elsewhere are not set up in the
answer; and it is clear that proof of prior use in a foreign
country will not supersede a patent granted here, unless the
alleged invention was patented in some foreign country. Proof
of such foreign manufacture and use, if known to the applicant
for a patent, may be evidence tending to show that he is not
the inventor of the -alleged new improvement; but it is not
sufficient to supersede the patent if he did not borrow his supposed invention from that source, unless the foreign inventor
obtained a patent for his improvement, or the same was described in some printed publication.
Doubt upon that subject cannot be entertained; but it is
equally clear, that if the alleged improvement had been previously patented here or in a foreign country, or if it had been
previously known or used by others in this country, or if it had
been in public use or on sale for more than two years prior to
his application for a patent, the letters-patent cannot be sustained. 16 Stat. 201.
Competent proof of a prior patent anywhere is entirely want.
ing, nor is there any satisfactory evidence that the invention
was previously described in any printed publication; but the
evidence shows beyond any reasonable doubt that the thing
patented was known and used extensively by others in this
country before the invention or discovery made by the patentee,
as set forth and described in the bill of complaint. Such was
the finding of the court below; and the evidence is so full to
the point, and is so fully set forth in the record and in the opin-

Oct. 1877.]

ROEMER V. SIMON.

ion delivered in the Circuit Court, that it is not necessary to
reproduce it in the present opinion.
Suppose that is so, still it is insisted by the complainant
that the testimony of two of the witnesses should have been
excluded, because their names and residences were not set
forth in the answer as persons alleged to have had a prior
knowledge of the thing patented.
Written notice of the names of the witnesses intended to be
called by the defendant or respondent to prove such a defence
is not required by the act of Congress. Instead of that, the
requirement is that the defendant party shall state the names
of the patentees, and the dates of their patents and when
granted, and "the names and residences of the persons alleged
to have invented or to have had the prior knowledge of the
thing patented, and where and by whom it had been used."
16 Stat. 208.
Notice of the kind is required, in order to guard the moving
party from being surprised at the trial by a defence of a nature
which he could not be presumed to know or be prepared to
meet; and, to prevent such consequences, the defendant or
respondent is required to state "the names and residences of
the persons alleged to have previously invented the improvement, or to have the prior knowledge of the thing patented,
and where and by whom it had been used." Teese et al. v.
Huntington et al., 23 How. 2.
Prior use and knowledge of the thing patented may be
pleaded as a defence to a suit for infringement; but the respondent cannot be allowed to give evidence to support such defence, if seasonable objection be made, unless it appears that
he gave notice in his answer of the names and residences of
the persons alleged to have had such prior knowledge of the
thing patented. Blanchard v. Putnam, 8 Wall. 420.
Seasonable objection was made in that case by the plaintiff,
the suit being an action at law, and the court held that the
evidence was not admissible without an antecedent compliance
with the conditions of the patent act; but the case before the
court is clearly distinguished from that in several particulars.
Due notice was given in the answer that the invention and
every material and substantial part thereof had been previously

lRomEP V. SIMrON.

LSup. Ct.

invented and used by and was known to certain persons therein
named, twelve in all; and the respondents in due form stated the
names and residences of the persons alleged to have had such
prior knowledge, and where and by whom the invention had
been used. Superadded to that, they also alleged that the
supposeI invention had previously been known to and used by
many other persons to the respondents unknown; and they
prayed leave, as before remarked, that, when discovered, they
might be permitted to insert and set forth their names in the
answer. Pursuant to that reservation, two witnesses were examined upon that subject by the respondents without objection ;
nor does the record, irrespective of the opinion of the court,
show that any objection to the admissibility of the evidence
was ever made.
Previous notice of the examination of those two witnesses, it
seems, was not given; but the presiding justice states that, if
seasonable objection had been made, the evidence would have
been excluded. None such was made; and it is well-settled
law that the failure to interpose any such objection before the
final hearing is a waiver of the required notice in an equity
suit. Brown v. -Hall,6 Blatch. 405.
Explicit notice was given in the answer that such a defence
would be made, and that leave to amend the answer would be
asked in case the names and residences of other persons having
like knowledge in that regard should be discovered ; and, when
such a discovery was made, the respondents in due form applied
to the court for leave to insert their names and residences in
the answer. Viewed in the light of these circumstances, we
are all of the opinion, that it was clearly competent to allow
the proposed amendment. Teese et al. v. Huntington et al.,
supra.
Authority to grant the amendment being established, it follows that the court might properly allow it to be entered nuno
pro tune, as originally prayed in the answer. Due notice was
there given that such defence would be made, and that the
respondents would move to insert the names and residences of
other persons when discovered. Such notice prevented surprise, and fully justified the court in allowing the amendment
and making the order in the form exhibited in the record.

Oct. 1877.1

Ex

PARTE RAILROAD

C0.

Suppose the rule were otherwise, still a new hearing would
not benefit the complainant, as the testimony of the other three
witnesses is abundantly sufficient to establish the defence of
prior knowledge and use.
Decree affirmed.

Ex PARTE R I

OD CoPANY.

1. Where the final decree of the Circuit Court is inconsistent with an interlocutory
decree granting affirmative relief upon a cross-bill in the same suit, a party
adversely affected by such final decree, where the matter in dispute is sufficient, has a right to appeal to this court, which, if withheld, may be enforced
by mandamus.
2. An assignment by a defendant of his interest in the subject-matter of a pending suit does not necessarily defeat the suit. The assignee is bound by what
is done against the assignor; and may either come in and assume the burden
of the litigation in his own name, or act in the name of his assignor.
PETITION for a writ of mandamus to the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Middle District of Alabama.
The facts important to the determination of this case are as

follows :-

The Montgomery and Eufaula Railroad Company, in 1860,
borrowed $80,000 from the State of Alabama, and executed a
mortgage upon its property and franchises to secure the payment. Afterwards, the State indorsed bonds of the company
to the amount of $1,280,000, and a statutory lien was created
upon the same property and franchises as further security for
the bonds. In 1870, the company issued a series of bon&s to
the amount of $500,000, and secured the payment of them by
a deed of trust upon the same property.
Default having been made in the payment of the interet
upon the last-named bonds, Samuel A. Strang, claiming to be
the holder of some of them, filed May 10, 1872, a bill for the
foreclosure of the mortgage, in the District Court of the United
States for the Middle District of Alabama, then possessing
circuit court powers. To this bill, the trustees named in the
mortgage, the railroad company, and one of its judgment creditors, were alone made parties. No mention was made of the

