Oct. 1877.]

RAILROAD

CO.

V. JONES.

are addressed. We cannot doubt that Congress had such orders
in view, and that its action was intended to protect against civil
suits those who might do acts either commanded or authorized
by them.
The decree of the Supreme Court of Tennessee must, therefore, be reversed, and the record remitted with instructions to
reverse the last decree of the Chancellor, and direct him to disSo ordered.
miss the bill of review; and it is

RAiLRoAD COmPANY v. JONES.
1. Negligence may consist in either failing to do what, under the circumstances,
a reasonable and prudent man would ordinarily have done, or in doing what
he would not have done.
2. A. was one of a party of men employed by a railroad company in constructing
and repairing its roadway. They were usually conveyed by the company
to and from the place where their services were required, and a box-car was
assigned to their use. Although on several occasions forbidden to do so,
and warned of the danger, A., on returning from work one evening, rode on
the pilot or bumper of the locomotive, when the train, in passing through a
tunnel, collided with cars standing on the track, and he was injured. There
was ample room for him in the box-car. All in it were unhurt. Beld,
1. That, as A. would not have been injured had le used ordinary care and
caution, lie is not entitled to recover against the company. 2. That the
knowledge, assent, or direction of the agents of the company as to what he
did at the time in question is immaterial. The company, although bound
to a high degree of care, did not insure his safety.

to the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
This was an action by Jones against the Baltimore and Potomac Railroad Company, to recover damages for an injury received on the road of the company. Judgment was rendered
in his favor, and the company brought the case here.
The facts are fully stated in the opinion of the court.
ERROR

Mr. Enoch Totten for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. Edward C. Carrington and Mr. Campbell Carrington,
contra.
MR. JusTICE SwAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
The defendant in error was the plaintiff in the court below
Upon the trial there, he gave evidence to the following effect:

RAILROAD CO. v. JONES.

[Sup. Ct.

For several months prior to the 12th of November, 1872, he
was in the service of the company as a day-laborer. He was
one of a party of men employed in constructing and keeping
in repair the roadway of the defendant. It was usual for the
defendant to convey them to and from their place of work.
Sometimes a car was used for this purpose; at others, only a
locomotive and tender were provided. It was common, whether
a car was provided or not, for some of the men to ride on the
pilot or bumper in front of the locomotive. This was done
with the approval of Van Ness, who was in charge of the
laborers when at work, and the conductor of the train which
carried them both ways. The plaintiff bad no connection with
the train. On the 12th of November before mentioned, the
party of laborers, including the plaintiff, under the direction
of Van Ness, were employed on the west side of the eastern
branch of the Potomac, near where the defendant's road
crosses that stream, in filling flat cars with dirt and unloading
them at an adjacent point. The train that evening consisted
of a locomotive, tender, and box-car. When the party was
about to leave on their return that evening, the plaintiff was
told by Van Ness to jump on anywhere; that they were behind
time, and must hurry.
The plaintiff was riding on the pilot of the locomotive, and
while there the train ran into certain cars belonging to the defendant and loaded with ties. These cars had become detached
from another train of cars, and were standing on the track in
the Virginia avenue tunnel. The accident was the result of
negligence on the part of the defendant. Thereby one of the
plaintiff's legs was severed from his body, and the other one
severely injured. Nobody else was hurt, except two other persons, one riding on the pilot with the plaintiff, and the other
one on the cars standing in the tunnel.
The defendant then gave evidence tending to prove as follows: About six weeks or two months before the accident, a
box-car had been assigned to the construction train with which
the plaintiff was employed. The car was used thereafter every
day. About the time it was first used, and on several occasions
before the accident, Van Ness notified the laborers that they
must ride in the car and not on the engine; and the plaintiff in

Oct. 1877.]

RAILROAD CO. V. JONES.

particular, on several occasions not long before the disaster,
was forbidden to ride on the pilot, both by Van Ness and the
engineer in charge of the locomotive. The plaintiff was on
the pilot at the time of the accident, without the knowledge of
any agent of the defendant. There was plenty of room for
the plaintiff in the box-car, which was open. If he had been
anywhere but on the pilot, he would not have been injured.
The collision was not brought about by any negligence of the
defendant's agents, but was unavoidable. The defendant's
agents in charge of the two trains, and the watchman in the
tunnel, were competent men.
The plaintiff, in rebuttal, gave evidence tending to show that
sometimes the box-car was locked when there was no other car
attached to the train, and that the men were allowed by the
conductor and engineer to ride on the engine, and that on the
evening of the accident the engineer in charge of the locomotive knew that the plaintiff was on the pilot.
The evidence being closed, the defendant's counsel asked the
court to instruct the jury as follows: "If the jury find from
the evidence that the plaintiff knew the box-car was the proper
place for him, and if he knew his position on the pilot of the
engine was a dangerous one, then they will render a verdict for
the defendant, whether they find that its agents allowed the
plaintiff to ride on the pilot or not."
This instruction was refused, and the defendant's counsel
excepted.
Three questions arise upon the record :1. The exception touching the admission of evidence.
2. As to the application of the rule relative to injuries
received by one servant by reason of the negligence of another
servant, both being at the time engaged in the same service of
a common superior.
8. As to contributory negligence on the part of the plaintiff.
We pass by the first two without remark. We have not
found it necessary to consider them. In our view, the point
presented by the third is sufficient to dispose of the case.
Negligence is the failure to do what a reasonable and pru
dent person would ordinarily have done under the circumstances of the situation, or doing what such a person under

RAILROAD CO. V. JONES.

[Sup. Ct.

the existing circumstances would not have done. The essence
of the fault may lie in omission or commission. The duty is
dictated and measured by the exigencies of the occasion. See
Wharton ol Negligence, sect. 1, and notes.
One who by his negligence has brought an injury upon
himself cannot recover damages for it. Such is the rule of the
civil and of the common law. A plaintiff in such cases is entitled to no relief. But where the defendant has been guilty
of negligence also, in the same connection, the result depends
upon the facts. The question in such cases is: 1. Whether the
damage was occasioned entirely by the negligence or improper
conduct of the defendant; or, 2. Whether the plaintiff himself
so far contributed to the misfortune by his own negligence or
want of ordinary care and caution, that but for such negligence
or want of care and caution on his part the misfortune wouli
not have happened.
In the former case, the plaintiff is entitled to recover. In
the latter, he is not. Tuff v. Warman, 5 C. B. N. s. 573 ; Butterfield v. Forrester, 11 East, 58; Bridge v. Grand Junction
Railroad Co., 3 M. & W. 244; Davis v. Mann, 10 id. 546;
Clayards v. .Dethick, 12 Q. B. 439; Van Lien v. Scoville Manufacturing Co., 14 Abb. (N. Y.) Pr. w. s. 74; Ine v. .East
Boston Ferry Co., 106 Mass. 149.
It remains to apply these tests to the case before us. The
facts with respect to the cars left in the tunnel are not fully
disclosed in the record. It is not shown when they were left
there, how long they had been there, when it was intended to
remove them, nor why they had not been removed before. It
does appear that there was a watchman at the tunnel, and
that he and the conductor of the train from which they werer
left, and the conductor of the train which carried the plaintiff,
were all well selected, and competent for their places. For the
purposes of this case, we assume that the defendant was guilty
of negligence.
The plaintiff had been warned against riding on the pilot,
and forbidden to do so. It was next to the cow-catcher, and
obviously a place of peril, especially in case of collision. There
was room for him in the box-car. He should have taken his
place there. He could have gone into the box-car in as little,

Oct. 1877.]

RAILROAD CO. V. JONES.

if not less, time than it took to climb to the pilot. The knowledge, assent, or direction of the company's agents as to what
he did is immaterial. If told to get on anywhere, that the
train was late, and that he must hurry, this was no justification
for taking such a risk. As well might he have obeyed a suggestion to ride on the cow-catcher, or put himself on the track
before the advancing wheels of the locomotive. The company,
though bound to a high degree of care, did not insure his
safety. He was not an infant nor non compos. The liability
of the company was conditioned upon the exercise of reasonable
and proper care and caution on his part. Without the latter,
the former could not arise. He and another who rode beside
him were the only persons hurt upon the train. All those in
the box-car, where he should have been, were uninjured. He
would have escaped also if he had been there. His injury was
due to his own recklessness and folly. He was himself the
author of his misfortune. This is shown with as near an
approach to a demonstration as any thing short of mathematics
will permit. The case is thus clearly brought within the
second of the predicates of mutual negligence we have laid
down.
Hickey v. Boston &"Lowell Railroad Co., 14 Allen
(Mass.), 429; Todd v. Old Colony Railroad Co., 3 id. 18;
s. c. 7 id. 207; Gavett v. 01,.
L. Railroad Co., 16 Gray
(Mass.), 501; Lucas v. N. B.
T. Railroad Co., 6 id. 64;
Ward v. Railroad Company, 2 Abb. (N. Y.) Pr. N€. s. 411;
aalenta , Cldcago Union Railroad Co. v. Yarwood, 15 Il. 468;
Dogget v. Illinois Central Railroad Co., 34 Iowa, 284.
The plaintiff was not entitled to recover. It follows that the
court erred in refusing the instruction asked upon this subject.
ITf the company had prayed the court to direct the jury to
return a verdict for the defendant, it would have been the duty
of the court to give such direction, and error to refuse. Gavett v. 3.1. & L. Railroad Co., supra; .3Iercharts'Bank v. State
Bank, 10 Wall. 604; Pleasantsv. Fant, 22 id. 121.
Judgment reversed, and the cause remanded with directions to
issue a venire de novo, and to proceed in conformity with
this opinion.

