Am0RI v. AmORY.

[Sup. Ot.

cause. It should state facts, which, taken in connection with
such as already appear, entitle him to the transfer. If he fails
in this, he has not, in law, shown to the court that it cannot
"proceed further with the cause." Having once acquired jurisdiction, the court may proceed until it is judicially informed
that its power over the cause has been suspended.
It remains only to apply this rule to the facts as they appear
in this record. The suit was commenced June 1, 1867. At
that time there was nothing in the pleadings or process to indicate the citizenship of the plaintiff. The defendant, in its
petition for removal, bearing date June 11, simply stated that
the plaintiff is - that is to say, was at that date - a citizen of
New York. This certainly is not stating affirmatively that
such was his citizenship when the suit was commenced. The
court had the right to take the case as made by the party himself, and not inquire further. If that was not sufficient to oust
the jurisdiction, there was no reason why the court might not
proceed with the cause. We think, therefore, that the Court
of Appeals did not err in its decision.
Judgment affirmed.

AmoRY v. A.oRY.
SAME V. SAI1E.
1. A petition for the removal from a State court of a suit brought by the plain.
tiffs in their representative capacity as executors is insufficient, under the
act of March 2, 1867 (14 Stat. 558), where the defendant, who is not a citizen of the State where the suit is brought, alleges, so far as the citizenship
of the plaintiffs is concerned, that they, "as such executors," axe citizens of
that State.
2. Where the jurisdiction of the courts of the United States depends upon the
citizenship of the parties, it has reference to their personal citizenship.
8. Insurance Company v. Pechner, supra, p. 183, cited and approved.

ERRoR to the Superior Court of the city of New York.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
H.r. . T. Birdsall and 21r. W. B. Beebe for the plaintiff
inerror.
The court declined to hear Hr. Hatt. H. Oarpenter for the
defendants in error.

Oct. 187T.]

AmoRY v. AMORY.

MR. CmIEF JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.
These cases are substantially disposed of by the decision in
Insurance Company v. Pechner, supra, p. 183. They each present the question of the sufficiency of a petition for removal
under the act of March 2, 1867, 14 Stat. 558. The suits were
in New York by the defendants in error as executors, against
the plaintiff in error, a citizen of New Jersey. The petitions for
removal set forth sufficiently the citizenship of the plaintiff in
error, but as to the defendants in error the allegations are
"that said plaintiffs, as such executors, are citizens uf the
State of New York." Clearly this is not sufficient. Where
the jurisdiction of the courts of the United States depends
upon the citizenship of the parties, it has reference to -he
parties as persons. A petition for removal must, therefore,
state the personal citizenship of the parties, and not their official
citizenship, if there can be such a thing. From the language
here employed, the court may properly infer that, as persons,
the plaintiffs in error were not citizens of New York. For all
that appears, they may have been citizens of New Jersey, as
was the defendant. Holding, as we do, that a State court is
not bound to surrender its jurisdiction upon a petition for removal until at least a petition is filed, which, upon its face,
shows the right of the petitioner to the transfer, it was not
error for the court to retain these causes. We need not, therefore, consider whether the act of 1867 limits the right of
removal to the citizenship of the parties at the time of the
commencement of the suit, or whether the State court had the
right to call upon the defendants in error to show cause against
the application.
Judgments affirmed.

