PEARSON V. YEWDALL.

[Sup. Ct.

employed, nor in the profits and losses. The cattle remained
the entire property of the defendant. If the whole herd had
perished by distemper, it would have been his loss alone, and
the other parties would only have been interested in the loss
of compensation for their services.
Judgment affirmed.

PEARSON V. Yn-wDmA.
1. Where a writ of error is defective in the statement of the parties thereto, the
right to amend is not absolute, under sect. 1005, Rev. Stat.; but the court,
in its discretion, may allow the requisite amendment to be made upon such
terms as it may deem just.
2. As both parties severally claim compensation for land taken by the city of
Philadelphia for public use, the city, the only adverse party to them in the
proceedings below, is an indispensable party to the writ.
8. The court declines to allow an amendment making the city such party, inasmuch as the questions made by the assignment of error have been settled by
repeated decisions, and are no longer open to discussion here.
4. The seventh amendment to the Constitution, touching the right of trial by
jury, applies only to the courts of the United States.
5. The act of the General Assembly of the State of Pennsylvania, entitled "An
Act relating to roads, highways, and bridges," approved July 13, 1836, makes
ample provision for judicial inquiry in the matters therein mentioned, and
is due process of law, within the meaning of the Federal Constitution.
MoTIoN by the defendant to dismiss the writ of error to the
Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, and by the plaintiff to amend
the writ, by making the city of Philadelphia a party thereto.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
The motions were argued by Mr. 1. CarrollBrew.ster for the

plaintiff in error, and by Mr. William W. Wiltbane for the
defendant in error.

MR. Cmnr JUSTICE WAITE delivered the opinion of the
court.

It having been suggested to us at the last term that the city
of Philadelphia was a party to this cause in the court below,
and adverse in interest to the plaintiffs in error, leave was
granted the defendants in error to move to dismiss this suit,
because the city is not named in the writ; and for the city to

appear by counsel, to be heard in support of the motion. That

Oct. 1877.]

PEARSON V. YEWDALL.

motion has now been made; and the plaintiffs in error, while
resisting it, ask leave, under sect. 1005 Rev. Stat., to amend
their writ by naming the city as a defendant, in case it shall
appear to be necessary.
The city councils, by ordinance, ordered that Paschall Street
should be opened to public use. Thereupon the present defendants in error, owning property which would be taken by
the opening, petitioned the Court of Quarter Sessions, conformably to the act of the General Assembly of Pennsylvania regulating such proceedings, to appoint proper persons to view the
premises and assess their damages. In accordance with this
petition, the court appointed a jury of six men to view the
premises, and assess the damages which had been sustained.
Notice of their appointment and of the time and place they
would meet to perform their duties was served upon all the
owners of property through which the street would run. Availing themselves of this notice, the plaintiffs in error appeared
among others and presented their claims.
Notice of the meeting was also served, in accordance with the
further provisions of the statute, upon the law department of
the city; and the solicitor, who was charged by law with the
duty of representing and protecting the interests of the city in
all such matters, appeared before the jury in his official capacity.
The viewers, after a hearing, made a report to the court of
their allowances to the several claimants. The plaintiffs in
error excepted to the report, for the reason, among others, that
the amount awarded to them was too small; and the city also
excepted, because it was too large. The Court of Quarter
Sessions overruled the exceptions of both parties, and confirmed
the report. The plaintiffs in error then appealed to the
Supreme Court; and the report being there again confirmed,
they now seek to bring the case here for review upon this writ.
There can be no doubt but that the city is an indispensable
party to this suit. The viewers were appointed at the instance
of the defendants in error; but they were appointed in a proceeding by the city, in its nature adverse to all the property
owners affected, for an appropriation of private property to
public use. It nowhere appears that the interests of the
plaintiffs in error are adverse to those of the defendants in

PEARSON V. YEWDALL.

[Sup. Ct.

error. They were both property owners, and both seeking
compensation for their property before it should be opened to
the use of the public. The city alone represented the public,
and was, therefore, the only party to the proceeding adverse to
the claimants. Under such circumstances, we cannot properly
review the judgment below in its absence.
The question now arises, whether the plaintiffs in error shall
have leave to amend. Sect. 1005 of the Revised Statutes
authorizes this court in its discretion, and upon such terms as it
may deem just, to allow an amendment of a writ of error when
the statement of the parties thereto is defective. The right of
a party to amend is not absolute, but it is to be granted by the
court in its discretion. Whether it should be granted in a particular case must depend upon the attending circumstances.
In this case, we think the amendment ought not to be allowed. We have looked carefully through the record, and cannot find that any question is presented which has not been
many times decided. We have held over and over again
that art. 7 of the amendments to the Constitution of the
United States relating to trials by jury applies only to the
courts of the United States, Edwards v. Elliott, 21 Wall. 557;
and in the act of the General Assembly of Pennsylvania, now
under consideration, ample provision is made for an inquiry as
to damages before a competent court, and for a review of the
proceedings of the court of original jurisdiction, upon appeal
to the highest court of the State. This is due process of law,
within the meaning of that term as used in the Federal Constitution. To grant the amendment would, in our opinion, lead
only to unnecessary delay and expense.
Writ dismissed.

