MERCHANTS' NATIONAL BANK V. COOK.

[Sup. C.'

MERCHANTS' NATIONAL BANK v. CooK.
1. The court, upon consideration of the facts in this case, holds that it appears
that an insolvent debtor transferred certain securities to his creditor with a
view to give him a fraudulent preference, and that the latter received and
appropriated them, having reasonable cause to believe that the debtor was
insolvent.
2. The creditor is, therefore, liable to the assignee in bankruptcy of the debtor for
the securities or for their value.

S. Toof v. Martin, 13 Wall. 40, Buchanan v. Smith, 16 id. 277, and Wager v. Hall,
id. 684, cited and approved.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of Ohio.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr.Stanley 1l1atthews for the appellant.
Mr. Edgar Bi. Johnson, eontra.
MR. JUSTICE HUNT delivered the opinion of the court.
This action is brought by the assignees of B. Homans, Jr.,
to recover from the Merchants' Bank certain securities, or their
value, received by the bank from Homans. The securities are
alleged to have been received in violation of the thirty-fifth
section of the Bankrupt Act. That Homans was insolvent
when the securities were delivered is not denied, but the bank
insists that it had no reasonable cause to believe that such was
his condition.
On the morning of Aug. 25, 1869, the bank advanced to
Homans, upon his check on New York, the sum of ,$10,000, less
the usual charge of one-eighth of one per cent. In the afternoon of the same day, Ilomans became satisfied that his failure
could no longer be averted, and that his check thus given would
not be paid. He therefore placed in an envelope addressed
to the bank the securities in question, with the following
note: "HOMA-s & Co., BAN.ERs, No. 23 W. Tinn ST.,
CneiNATi,

Aug. 25, 1869.

"D. I. FA.Lxis, Esq., Pr.
"DEAR SiR, -A
disappointment gives us reason to fear that our
check of this date may not be paid. I leave with you the enclosed
w; security.

B. HomANS, Jr."

Oct. 1877.]

MERCHANTS' NATIONAL BANK V. COOK.

343

On the morning of the 26th, his banking-house was opened
for business as usual, Homans himself being present. At nine
o'clock A.M. he left his office for Covington, where he lived,
instructing Mr. Wood, one of his clerks, that if he did not return at ten o'clock to deliver the envelope addressed to the
Merchants' Bank, and another of a like character to another
bank. Homans did not return that day; but at ten or half-past
ten o'clock, Mr. Albert, another clerk, received directionA from
him to close the doors, take no more deposits, and pay no more
checks. Mr. Albert immediately locked the doors, and, receiving the package from Mr. Wood, at once delivered it to the
bank. Upon these facts, with one exception as to time, the
parties are agreed.
The president of the Merchants' Bank testifies that he found
the envelope on his desk in the bank when he came to the bank
at about eight o'clock in the morning, and is quite confident
that it could not have been later than half-past eight when he
became aware of its contents. On the point of time he may
easily have fallen into an error; and, we think, there can be no
doubt of his mistake. Mr. Homans testifies that he left the
banking-house at nine A.M. to go to Covington, and then gave
instructions to Mr. Wood, a clerk, to deliver the envelope, if
he did not return by ten o'clock. Mr. Albert also testifies that
the banking-office of Homans was opened at nine o'clock, and
continued open for about an hour; that he then received orders
from Mr. Homans to close the doors; that he did so, and, in
pursuance of directions then received from Mr. Wood, proceeded
to deliver this envelope, with a similar one to another bank;
and that this delivery was made at ten or half-past ten o'clock.
Mr. Yergason, the cashier of the Merchants' Bank, presented
at Homans's office a clearing-house check, and payment thereof
was refused. Mr. Albert testifies that this check was presented
and payment demanded by the cashier after the doors were
closed and after the envelope had been delivered at the bank.
Mr. Fallis testifies to the same purport, and that this demand
and refusal was made between nine and ten o'clock in the
morning,
That Homans intended to give the bank a preference over
other creditors, - that is, that he expected and intended by

844

MERCHANTS' NATIONAL BANK v. COOK.

[Sup. Ct.

means of the enclosures sent that the bank should receive the
full amount of its $10,000 check, while other creditors would
receive but a portion of their debts,- is too evident to require
discussion. Mr. Homans states in explicit terms that he was
at that time aware of his inability to pay his creditors in full
then or in the future.
The important question remains, Had the Merchants' Bank,
when it received the packages, reasonable cause to believe that
Homans was insolvent? If it had, the thirty-fifth section of
the Bankrupt Act declares the transaction to be void. If it
had not, it may lawfully hold the securities or their avails.
The president of the bank testifies that there was nothing in
the note sent with the securities, or in the transaction itself,
that led him to suspect the insolvency of Homans. While it
is impossible certainly to indicate the operation of the human
mind, we cannot but think the witness is again at fault in his
recollection, and that his idea at the time of testifying was not
the one that controlled his action when the occurrence took
place.
1. The transaction, on the theory of the solvency of Homans,
is quite inexplicable. It was the general practice of these parties, as of all bankers in their city, to deal in exchange on New
York. The practice was thus: The Merchants' Bank wanted
$10,000 to be used in the city of New York. Mr. Homans had
the money there, which he did not need for his own purposes.
The bank gives him $10,000 in currency, less the difference in
exchange, and takes his check on his banker in New York for
the sum named. This is the theory of the transaction. In fact,Homans had no funds in New York, but gave his check that
he might obtain the currency to be used to meet pressing demands at home. The theory of the bank, however, was as is
above stated.
That a banker in Cincinnati, having sold a sight-draft on
New York, should the next day, without agreement or solicitation, send to the holder collaterals to secure the payment of the
draft, would be an extraordinary transaction, and, in the language of Mr. Cook, president of the Fourth National Bank of
Cincinnati, it would be a taint upon the standing of the drawer,
and would at once impress one with the idea that the drawer

Oct. 1877.]

MERCHANTS' NATIONAL BANK V. COOK.

845

was insolvent, or in great financial difficulty. Such is the evi
dence also of Mr. Griffiths and Mr. Espy, bankers of the same
place. The giving of security under such circumstances is in
repugnance to the idea of the whole transaction, which is that
of a quick and simple commercial exchange of funds. One
who lends money on bond or time notes may well expect and
take security for their payment. It is in harmony with the
transaction. But if a check is taken in payment of an account
presented, no one would expect to receive collateral security
for its payment. It would not, however, be more incongruous,
or more inharmonious, than the giving of collateral security for
the payment of the draft in question. The giving and acceptance of the collateral could have but one significance to the
mind of a banker.
2. The letter accompanying the collaterals, we think, gave
a notice which a business man could not misunderstand, especially in connection with the fact, known to the bank, that
a short time prior thereto there were evidences that Homans
was in need of money, and that there were clearing-house
checks to a large amount outstanding against him. The letter
enclosed said: "A disappointment gives us reason to fear that
our check of this date may not be paid. I leave with you the
enclosed as security." Its language is expressive to a business
man. It means, not that we fear our check may not be paid,
but that it will not be paid. We are disappointed in obtaining
the funds to pay it.
This disappointment is not the result of an accident or of a
misunderstanding, for that apology would have been given if
it existed; nor is the disappointment a temporary one, for that
would have been stated if true. We do not expect to be able
to pay it, and we enclose you securities, which will not indeed
give the money to which you are entitled, but will protect you
from ultimate loss. This is what the letter means. It is a
statement of inability from want of funds to meet a current
and most pressing debt, either in New York or in Cincinnati,
the non-payment of which involved public suspension and bankruptcy. Practically it was so understood, for we find 3. That immediately upon its receipt the Merchants' Bank
sent for payment its clearing-house check, previously unpre-

846

MERCHANTS' NATIONAL BANK v. COOK.

[Sup. Ct.

sented. The testimony of Mr. Albert shows that the Merchants' Bank was not in the habit itself of presenting clearing-house checks, but that, in about fifteen minutes after he
had left the envelope and securities at the bank, -Mr. Yergason, the cashier, in person presented the clearing-house check
and requested its payment. The relation of cause and effect is
a more rational explanation of this speedy demand than to suppose it to be a mere coincidence.
It is scarcely necessary to discuss the authorities as to the
meaning of the words "having reasonable cause to believe the
party to be insolvent." When the condition of a debtor's affairs
are known to be such that prudent business men would conclude
that he could not meet his obligations as they matured in the
ordinary course of business, there is reasonable cause to believe
him to be insolvent. Knowledge is not necessary, nor even a
belief, but simply reasonable cause to believe. Toof v. Martin,
13 Wall. 40; Buchanan v. Smith, 16 id. 277; Wager v. Hall,
id. 584.
There is nothing in the subsequent decisions of this court to
vary these principles, and it is not worth while to go through
the English cases founded upon a statute containing different
language from our own.
Upon the whole case, we are all of the opinion that the court
below decided correctly in holding that Homans was insolvent;
that the securities were transferred with a view to give a fraudulent preference; and that the bank had reasonable cause to
believe that Homans was insolvent when it received and appropriated the securities presented to it.
.Decree affirmed.

