Oct. 1877.]

INSURANCE

Co. v.

EXPRESS CO.

that company represented the claim which was being enforced
in its name, and was entitled to take such steps as might be
deemed necessary for the protection of those in whose behalf
it was acting.
A writ of mandamus may issue directing the circuit judge,
or the Circuit Court of the United States for the Middle District of Alabama, to allow the appeal prayed for as of July 3,
1877, and, upon the allowance of the appeal, to accept as of the
same date good and sufficient security for a supersedeas if
offered; and it is
So ordered.

INSURANCE COPANY V. EXPRESS COMPANY.
A policy, issued to an express company, insuring goods and merchandise in its
care for transportation while on board cars or other conveyances, contained
the following provision: "It is a further condition of this insurance, that no
loss is to be paid in case of collision: except fire ensue, and then only for the
loss and damage by fire. And that no loss is to be paid arising from petroleum or other explosive oils." Certain goods in the possession of the company, and in the course of transportation by it, were in an express freight-car,
forming part of a railway train, which collided with another train composed
mainly of oil-cars loaded with petroleum. Immediately upon the collision, the
petroleum burst into flames, which enveloped and destroyed the freight-car
and the goods. Held, that the loss thereby sustained by the express company
was not covered by the policy.
ERROR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York.
The facts are stated in the opinion of the court.

Mr. N. B. ifoxie for the plaintiff in error.
Mr. S. P. Nash, contra.
MR. JUSTICE STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action upon two policies of insurance against
fire, issued by the defendants to the plaintiffs below, an express
company, and covering goods, wares, and merchandise in their
care for transportation while on board cars or other conveyances, including water and stage routes, embracing the entire
routes of the company designated on a map specified. The
nolioies, though differing in the sums insured, were alike in all

INSURANCE 00. V. EXPRESS 00.

[Sup,

of,

other particulars. To the action two defences were set up,
both founded upon certain provisions of the policies. The
material parts out of which the first of these defences is
thought to arise are the following: "It is a further condition of this insurance, that no loss is to be
paid in case of collision, except fire ensue, and then only for the
loss and damage by fire. And that no loss is to be paid arising
from petroleum or other explosive oils."
"Petroleum, rock, earth, coal, kerosene, or carbon oils of any
description, whether crude or refined; benzine, benzole, naphtha,
camphene, spirit gas, burning fluid, turpentine, phosgene, or any
other inflammable liquid, are not to be stored, used, kept, or allowed
on the above premises, temporarily or permanently, for sale or
otherwise, unless with written permission indorsed on this policy,
excepting the use of refined coal, kerosene, or other carbon oil for
lights, if the same is drawn and the lamps filled by daylight, otherwise this policy shall be null and void."
"If any property covered by this insurance be damaged by
lightning, or the bursting of a boiler, or by explosion from any
cause, this company shall not be liable therefor, unless fire ensues,
and then for the loss by fire only, which shall be determined by the
value of the damaged property after the casualty by explosion or
lightning."
It is claimed that by force of these provisions the loss which
occurred was excepted from the risk undertaken by the insurers, or, in other words, that the loss was not covered by the
policies. This is one of the defences set up against any recovery by the plaintiffs.
The other defence is, that the suit was not brought within
the term of twelve months next after the loss or damage occurred, and was, therefore, barred by an express stipulation
contained in the policies. Both these defences were overruled
in the Circuit Court, and the jury was instructed to return a
verdict for the plaintiffs. It is obvious that, if either of the
defences was maintainable, - if the loss was not covered by
the policies, or if the suit was barred by any stipulation contained in them, -the instruction given to the jury was erroneous. And, as we think the loss was excepted from the risk
assumed by the insurance company, it will be unnecessary to
consider whethei the action was brought too late.

Oct. 1877.]

INsuPAT 'E Co. v. EXPRESS Co.

There is no controversy about the facts. They were agreed
Upon and admitted at the trial. During the years 1870 and
1871, the New York Central and Hudson River Railroad was
one of the routes of the plaintiff denoted on the map referred
to in the policies of insurance.
On Feb. 6, 1871, an oil freight-train of said railroad was on
its way from the city of Albany to the city of New York, on
the westerly track of the railroad. The train was composed
mainly of oil-cars, so called, the same being trucks or platforms, having upon them, respectively, two large wooden tanks,
with iron hoops; one of the tanks at each end of the trucks or
platforms, and each tank containing several thousand gallons
of petroleum.
By the breaking of an axle, one of the oil-cars was thrown
from or left the westerly track, and so left and situated that it
stood across the easterly track of the railroad, upon the bridge
next south of the tunnel at New Hamburgh.
While the oil-car was so situated, an express passenger-train
of the railroad company, composed of locomotive and tender,
baggage-car, express freight-car, five sleeping-cars, and one
ordinary passenger-car, connected in the order stated, was oi,
its way from the city of New York to .the city of Albany,
upon the easterly track of the railroad. In the express freightcar was a large quantity of merchandise in the possession of
the plaintiffs, and in the course of transportation by them.
The express passenger-train was proceeding at a high rate of
speed, and while so proceeding, at or about the hour of ten
o'clock in the evening of the said sixth day of February, 1871,
struck one of the oil-tanks upon the oil-car standing across the
easterly track of the railroad upon the bridge, as before mentioned.
Immediately upon the collision, the petroleum in said tank
ro struck was in some way ignited and burst into flames,
which surrounded and enveloped the locomotive and tender,
baggage-car, express freight-car, and first, second, and third
sleeping-cars of the express passenger-train, and consumed the
bridge, the baggage-car and its contents, the express freight-car
and most of its contents, and the first, second, and third sleeping-cars, with many of the passengers therein.

INSURANCE CO. v. EXPRESS CO.

[Sup. Or.

There was no petroleum or other explosive oil in or upon
either of said trains in the possession or under the control of
the plaintiffs.
In view of the facts thus stated, it is an inevitable inference
that the destruction of the express-car and its contents arose
from the burning petroleum, or was caused ly it; and it makes
no difference to this case how the petroleum was ignited,
whether by burning coals from the locomotive, or byheat generated in the collision.
The policies insured only against fire, and the excepting
clause we have quoted was plainly intended to exclude from
the risk taken certain possible fires. It stated, as a condition
of the insurance, that no loss should be paid in case of collision, except fire ensued, and then only for the loss and damage
by fire, and that no loss should be paid arising from petroleum
or other explosive oils. This plainly implies that, in contemplation of the parties, a loss by fire might arise or be caused
by petroleum. That would be impossible, unless the petroleum
were ignited in some way. It must, therefore, have been understood that burning petroleum, distinguished from the match,
coals, or collision that ignited it, might originate a fire, and
that a loss might arise from it. Such a loss, therefore, must
have been the one intended to be excepted, as truly as the excepting a loss from gunpowder would mean from ignited gunpowder, not merely from the loss caused by the match which
ignited it. Keeping in mind the general intent of the contract,
which was insurance against fire, we may, perhaps, arrive at
the understanding of the parties by following the succession of
provisions the policy contains. After having acknowledged
the receipt of the premium for insurance of the property
against fire generally, the thought seems to have occurred that
railroad collisions might take place, causing damage and resulting in fire. The policy, therefore, stipulated that in such cases
only the damage caused by fire, as distinguished from that
caused by the collision, should be covered by the policies.
Then it seems to have been considered that collisions might
result in setting fire to petroleum, a known dangerous substance, which, when ignited, produces uncontrollable fires; and,
therefore, it was stipulated that no loss arising from petroleum

Oct. 1877.J

INSURANCE

Co. v.

EXPRESS CO.

should be paid for, even though its ignition should ensue as a
consequence of collision. Looking at the position in the contract of these excepting provisions, being in juxtaposition, as
they are, and in one policy parts of the same sentence, it is
evident that such must have been the process of thought of
the parties. The meaning of the language used by the insurers, then, is this: We will insure you against fire; and, if
fire ensues -from a collision, we will pay the damages caused by
the fire, though not that caused by the collision ; but if a fire
ensuing a collision arise from petroleum or other explosive oils,
we do not undertake to pay the loss. All other losses caused
by fire resulting from collision we will pay. Such, we think,
is the most natural construction of the excepting clause.
The circuit judge was of opinion that what the parties contemplated was exemption from liability for loss occasioned by
explosion. This he inferred from the expression, "no loss is
to be paid arising from petroleum or other explosive oils" (severing it from the sentence of which it is really a part). Hence,
he concluded that the parties treated petroleum as an explosive
substance; and that when, as generally, in case of fire, if an
explosion occur which is caused by the fire, the insurers might
be liable for the whole damage caused by the explosion, in this
case they were exempted by the exception from all loss 6xcept
that immediately communicated by fire. To us this appears to
be a strained and unnatural construction, and it is decisive
against it that the parties have clearly and expressly stipulated
for the case of loss by explosion in another part of the policy.
It is a fair and necessary inference from this that the parties
had in mind, when they inserted the clause, other causes of loss
and other limitations of liability.
The defendants in error have argued that the exempting
clause may fairly be construed so as to read, "No loss is to be
paid arising from petroleum or other explosive oils carried by
the parties insured," or "carried upon the same train of cars
or other conveyance used by the parties insured." But such a
construction would be making a contract, instead of interpreting one already made. Another section of the policies contains
a condition that petroleum, rock, earth, coal, kerosene, or carbon oils of any description, whether crude or refined, benzine,

INSURANCE

Co. v. RODEL.

(-Sup. Cf.

benzole, naphtha, camphene, spirit gas, burning fluid, turpen.
tine, phosgene, or any other inflammable liquid, shall not be
stored, used, kept, or allowed on the premises insured (that is,
in the cars or conveyances employed), either permanently or
temporarily, for sale or otherwise. The petroleum referred to
in the excepting clause must, therefore, have been some other
than such as might be carried by the assured, or on the conveyances used by them. Collisions of express trains with petroleum-oil trains, and the consequent frightful destruction of
property and life by fire, had occurred before these policies
were issued, and manifestly the contracting parties intended to
take out of the risk assured the damages which might result
from such a possible catastrophe.
We are, therefore, led to the conclusion that the loss sustained by the plaintiff was not covered by the policies, and
that the Circuit Court erred in charging the jury to return a
verdict against the defendants.
Judgment reversed.
INSURANCE

C01PANY v. RODEL.

1. By a policy upon the life of A., for the benefit of his wife, an insurance company promised to pay her a certain sum, "for her sole and separate use and
benefit, ninety days after due notice and satisfactory evidence of the death
of the said A., and of the just claim of the assured (or proof of interest, if
assigned or held as security), under this policy, has been received and approved by the company." Held, that the words "just claim of the assured"
have reference to her claim or title to the policy, and not to tile justness of
her cause of action thereon.
2. A fact, disclosed by the proofs of the death of the insured furnished to the
company, which might be set up as a defence to a suit on the policy, does
not derogate from their sufficiency, nor bar the bringing of such suit.
8. Where a policy provides that it shall be void if the insured shall "die by his
own hand," the court should not take from the jury, as insufficient to sustain, a recovery, evidence tending to show that he was insane when he committed the act which caused his death. The weight of the evidence is for
the jury to pass upon, although the court may, in its discretion, express its
opinion thereon.
4. The testimony of ordinary persons as to the conduct, manner, and appearance
of the insured, and to the impressions thereby made upon them, is competent to go to the jury upon the question of his insanity.
5. The charge of the court below upon that question, being in the language sanctioned and approved in Life Insurance Company v. Terry, 15 Wall. 580, was
not erroneous.

