OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Counsel for Parties.

234 U. S.

HULL v. BURR.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.

No. 767.

Argued March 3, 1914.-Decided June 22, 1914.

A suit does not arise under the laws of the United States unless it really
and substantially involves a dispute or controversy respecting the
validity, construction or effect of some law of the United States upon
the determination of which the case depends and so appears not by
mere inference but by distinct averments according to rules of good
pleading.
In this case, held that a suit to restrain trustees in bankruptcy from
prosecuting an equity suit against complainants in the state court on
the ground that the bankruptcy proceedings were a fraud and that
the appointment of the trustees was void was one arising under the
laws of the United States within the meaning of § 24, Judicial Code,
and the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals is not final.
Although there may be a general prayer for relief, if no relief other than
injunction against prosecution of a suit in the state court is brought
to the attention of either the District Court or the Circuit Court of
Appeals, the general prayer should be treated as abandoned.
The prohibition, § 720, Rev. Stat., now § 265, Judicial Code, against
granting the writ of injunction by the Federal court to stay proceedings in a state court except where authorized by the Bankruptcy
Act, held, in this case, to apply to a case commenced after adjudication of bankruptcy to enjoin the trustee from prosecuting a suit in
ejectment, in the courts of the State where the land is situated. Such
a case is not within the exception or in aid of the bankruptcy proceeding.
206 Fed. Rep. 4; 207 Fed. Rep. 543, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court
of appeals from judgments of the Circuit Court of Appeals
and also the cQnstruction and application of § 265, Judicial Code (§ 720, Rev. Stat.), are stated in the opinion.

Mr. George C. Bedell, with whom Mr. H. Bisbee was on
the brief, for appellants.

HULL v. BURR.
234 U, S.

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Frank L. Simpson, with whom Mr. E. R. Gunby
and .Mr. James F. Glen were on the brief, for appellees.
MR.

JUSTICE PITNEY

delivered the opinion of the court.

The appellants, Joseph Hull, The Prairie Pebble Phosphate Company (hereinafter referred to as the Prairie
Company), and the Savannah Trust Company, brought
this action in equity in the District Court of the United
States for the District of Massachusetts against appellees,
Arthur E. Burr, Frank L. Simpson, and J. Howard Edwards, who are trustees in bankruptcy of the Port Tampa
Phosphate Company, a corporation organized and existing under the laws of the State of Massachusetts. The
bill was filed in August, 1912, and, defendants having demurred, an amended bill was filed, and it was stipulated
that the demurrer should stand as a demurrer to the substituted bill. The District Court entered a decree sustaining the demurrer and dismissing the bill (206 Fed.
Rep. 1)., The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed the decree (206 Fed. Rep. 4), and denied a petition for rehearing
(207 Fed. Rep. 543).
The amended bill, besides showing diversity of citizenship, avers in substance as follows: That prior to the
transactions in question, Stewart and Meminger were the
owners in fee simple of a tract of land in Polk County,
Florida, containing 440 acres, together with certain buildings and personal property situate upon it; that on May 22,
1905, in consummation of a prior contract, they conveyed
all their right, title, and interest in the property to Hull
by deed duly recorded, which vested in him a good legal
title in fee simple to the real estate, with full title to the
personal property and the right to possession as against
all persons, "and his recorded paper title to all the said
properties was perfect;" that before the delivery of the
deed by Stewart and Meninger to Hull the Port Tampa

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

Company claimed to own some equitable interest in the
property, under a contract between it and Stewart and
Meminger, which interest Hull purchased for a full consideration, and before the delivery of said deed to Hull
the Port Tampa Company adopted and placed upon its
records a resolution reciting its agreement to sell the
property to Hull, and authorizing and directing Stewart
and Men'iinger to make a deed to him; that soon after the
delivery of the deed Hull took possession; that on June 7,
1907, he executed and delivered to the Prairie Company a
deed of conveyance of all his right, title, and interest in
said properties for the consideration of about $37,000,
which deed was shortly afterwards recorded, and the
Prairie Company took actual and peaceable possession
of the property and has continued to hold it until the
present time, having made valuable improvements upon
it; that afterwards, and prior to March 26, 1908, the
Prairie Company executed and delivered to the Trust
Company a deed of trust conveying its right, title, and
interest in said properties, together with other properties,
to secure the payment of bonds amounting to about
$1,800,000, and the deed of trust was duly recorded; that
it came to the knowledge of Hull that certain creditors
of the Port Tampa Company had asserted that the company owned some interest in said properties, and on the
twenty-eighth of November, 1905, he commenced an action of ejectment against that company in the United
States Circuit Court for the Southern District of Florida,
being the district in which the property was situate; that
the company was served with process therein on December 6, 1905, and such further proceedings were had
that on March 13, 1906, upoi the verdict of a jury, a
judgment was rendered adjudging that Hull was entitled
to recover from the Port Tampa Company the fee simple
title and right of possession of the lands in question. The
bill sets up that on November 8, 1905, a petition in bank-

HULL v. BURR.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ruptcy was filed against the Port Tampa Company "in
this court of bankruptcy" [the District Court of the
United States for the District of Massachusetts]; that a
subpoena was issued thereon returnable on the twentieth
day of the same month, and returned served, and that on
the return-day an appearance was entered for the company by one J. H. Robinson. Copies of the creditors'
petition, the subpoena, and the appearance are appended
to the bill as an exhibit. The bill alleges that defendants.
assert that by virtue of a decree in bankruptcy made in
said District Court on November 27, 1905, adjudging the
Port Tampa Company bankrupt, they are the owners of
an equitable interest or estate in the said lands and other
properties, and that the defendant Burr was, on December 27, 1905, appointed sole trustee in bankruptcy of the
company; that he resigned as such trustee on March 12,
1909, and on the same day his-resignation was accepted,
and Burr, Simpson, and Edwards were appointed trustees
in his place; and that defendants claim that by the adjudication in bankruptcy and their appointment the title
to an interest or estate in said lands became vested in
them as such trustees; that on or about March 26, 1908,
and before he resigned as trustee, Burr brought a suit by
bill in equity in the circuit court in and for Polk County,
•Florida, against complainants, to establish such interest
or estate, but there has been no trial of this suit on the
merits, nor had the same been brought to final issues of
fact and law before Burr's resignation; that on January 9,
1912, the defendants filed' in said state court a supplemental bill of complaint, -wherein they averred that said
suit was brought by Burr as trustee in bankruptcy, and
that Burr resigned as such trustee on March 12, 1909,
and prayed that they might be substituted as complainants in his place; that the present complainants filed an
answer to the said supplemental bill, but that the issues
have not been tried, and no decree has been rendered mak-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

ing the defendants as trustees complainants in said suit.
The present bill then proceeds to attack the proceedings
and adjudication in bankruptcy, and the title of the defendants as trustees, as fraudulent and void upon various
grounds, which may be summarized as follows: That the
Port Tampa Company's principal place of business was
not in Massachusetts, as alleged in the petition, and that
it had no business except in Florida; that it was not
insolvent, and did not commit the act of bankruptcy
alleged, or any act of bankruptcy; that the petitioning
creditors were directors of the company and knew the
company was solvent and had committed no act of bankruptcy; that the jurisdictional facts were falsely and
fraudulently averred, being fabricated for the purpose of
pretending to state a cause within the jurisdiction of the
court; that the petitioning creditors controlled both sides
of the litigation through their ownership of a majority of
the company's stock; that Robinson, who entered the
appearance in behalf of the Port Tampa Company, was
not in fact authorized to appear for or represent the company; and that the petition was fraudulently made to
appear as an involuntary petition by creditors, whereas
in truth and in legal effect it was a voluntary petition on
the part of the company and its officers and directors. It
is also alleged that the appointment of defendants as trustees in the place of Burr on March 12, 1909, was invalid,
because no judge or referee appointed them, their claim
being that in fact they were appointed trustees at a meeting of creditors, whereas complainants allege that the
pretended call by the referee for the meeting of creditors
was issued at a time when there was no vacancy in the
office'of trustee; that ten days' notice of the meeting was
not given by mail to all the creditors as required by law;
that the only creditor who attended the meeting was one
Wills, a director of the company, and that there were
ten other creditors who had proven claims; that Wills did

HULL v. BURR.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

not own a bona fide provable claim to the amount of onehalf of the claims that had been proven; and that the
appointment of defendants as trustees was made by Wills
alone. Complainants insist that there was no power or
jurisdiction in any creditor or creditors to appoint defendants as trustees on March 12, 1909, because at that
time there was no -vacancy in the office of trustee, since
Burr had not then resigned and his resignation had not
been accepted by the court. The bill further avers that
in their answer to the supplemental bill in the equity
suit in the circuit court of Polk County, Florida, the
present complainants set up the defense of "want of
jurisdiction of the said court of bankruptcy to render any
decree of adjudication, and that such alleged decree was
void on the face of the said proceedings"; that this part
of the answer was excepted to and the exceptions sustained by the order of the Polk County circuit court;
that on appeal, the Florida Supreme Court affirmed this
order on July 3, 1912, ruling that all such defenses were
collateral attacks upon the bankruptcy proceedings, which
were not permissible, the ruling being expressed in the
following words: "The assaults made upon the banl.ruptcy proceedings in the Federal Court of Massachusetts
by the answer of the appellants to the supplemental bill
of the appellees in the :particulars wherein said answer
was excepted to by the appellees is simply a collateral
attack upon the judgments, orders and proceedings in
said bankruptcy court that is not permissible either by
way of defence to the supplemental bill or to the original
bill as amended;" that by reason of the said judgment of
the Florida courts the present complainants cannot by
way of defense to the bills of complaint in those courts
"have and obtain that speedy, adequate and appropriate
relief that this court is competent to render upon this
original bill of complaint; and your orators fear that the
Florida courts will decline to adjudicate as to the character

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.

Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

and title of the defendants as trustees and their competency to attack your orators' title to said 'properties, as
herein set forth, upon any answer to the said bills in the
said state court." The present amended bill further sets
up that "Upon the facts hereinbefore set forth, which are
conclusively provable to be true by the record of the proceedings of the said court of bankruptcy, if the said Port
Tampa Company had any title to any of the aforesaid
properties, legal or equitable, at the time of the said alleged decree of adjudication, such title still remains in the
said company; that your orators are still liable to be sued
by the said company in any court of competent jurisdiction to assert such title, and that a final decree in the
Florida state court for or against the defendants as such
alleged trustees would not be pleadable in bar of a suit
by the said company against your orators to assert such
title." The specific prayer is for a decree to restrain defendants "from asserting or claiming as trustees in bankruptcy, in any court or place, any right, title or interest
in or to any of the properties herein described until the
further decree of this court." There is also a prayer for
general relief. Appended as exhibits and made a part of
the bill are the copies of the petition, subpcena, return, and
appearance in the bankruptcy proceedings, already mentioned, and a transcript of the record of the ejectment suit
in the United States Circuit Court for the Southern District of Florida.
The District Court, in sustaining the demurrer, held
that since upon the face of the bankruptcy proceedings
there was no want of jurisdiction over the parties or the
subject-matter, and the decree was not void in form, it
could not be collaterally attacked, and could be assailed
only by a direct proceeding in a competent court; citing
Lamp Chimney Co. v. Brass & Copper Co., 91 U. S. 656,
662; Graham v. Boston, Hartford & Erie R. R. Co., 118

U. S. 161, 178. Treating the present suit as a direct at-

HULL v. BURR.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tack, the court held, first, that no right or interest of
complainants appeared to be so prejudiced by the adjudication in bankruptcy as to entitle them to equitable relief
against it; that the adjudication concerned only the bankrupt and its creditors, since it made no difference to complainants whether the claim to the Florida properties
was asserted by the bankrupt itself or by its trustees;
that the allegation that a final decree in the Florida suit
would not bar an action brought by the company itself
was a mere conclusion of law, not admitted by the demurrer, and an unsound conclusion in view of the facts
alleged; that, the adjudication not having been questioned by the bankrupt or its creditors, they were bound
by it, and by virtue of it the trustees were in the bankrupt's place so far as concerned any claim that it could
assert to the Florida properties. And, secondly, that
there was a defect of necessary parties, because the only
defendants named in the bill were the bankruptcy trustees, respecting whom it was not alleged that they were
parties to the bankruptcy proceedings, nor that they
participated in the fraud whereby the adjudication was
alleged to have been procured.
The Circuit Court of Appeals, while agreeing with this
reasoning, placed its decision upon the ground that complainants were invoking not the powers of the District
Court in bankruptcy, but its general powers as a court in
equity; that it also appeared that the proceedings in
Florida were insituted by a bill in equity with the parties
reversed; that the Florida court was a chancery court and
a court of superior jurisdiction in equity, and for present
purposes of equal dignity and authority with the District
Court of the United States for the District of Massachusetts; that the bill in substance merely invoked the general
equitable jurisdiction of the District Court in order to
restrain proceedings in a state court proceeding in equity
in a prior suit between the same parties; and that this ran

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

counter to § 720, Rev. Stat. (§ 265, Jud. Code, 36 Stat.
1162, c. 231), as well as to the general principle that the
authority of the court first acquiring jurisdiction, the
parties being the same, must prevail; citing Marshall v.
Holmes, 141 U. S. 589, 596; and Central National Bank v.
Stevens, 169 U. S. 432, 462.
There is a motion to dismiss the appeal, based upon
the ground that the jurisdiction of the District Court
depended solely upon diversity of citizenship, and that
therefore the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
final, under § 128, Judicial Code (36 Stat. 1133, c. 231).
The motion must be granted unless the suit was one arising under the laws of the United States, within the meaning of the first subdivioion of § 24 of theCode. The rule
is firmly established that a suit does not so arise unless it
really and substantially involves a dispute or controversy
respecting the validity, construction, or effect of some law
of the United States, upon the determination of which
the result depends. And this must appear not by mere
inference, but by distinct averments according to the
rules of good pleading; not that matters of law must be
pleaded as such, but that the essential facts averred must
show, not as a matter of mere inference or argument, but
clearly and distinctly, that the suit arises under some
Federal law. Hanford v. Davies, 163 U. S. 273, 279; Mountain View Mining & Milling Co. v. McFadden, 180 U. S.
533, 535; Defiance Water Co. v. Defiance, 191 U. S. 184,
191; Arbuckle v. Blackburn, 191 U. S. 405, 413; Bankers
Casualty Co. v. Minneapolis &c. Ry. Co., 192 U. S. 371,
383; Shulthis v. McDougal, 225 U. S. 561, 569.
We have not considered whether the action could be
regarded as ancillary to the proceedings in bankruptcy,
and for that reason maintainable in the District Court
as a suit arising under the'laws of the United States (see
Freeman v. Howe, 24 How. 450, 460; Minnesota Co. v. St.
Paul Co., 2 Wall. 609, 633; Buck v. Colbath, 3 Wall. 334,

HULL v. BURR.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

345; Christmas v. Russell, 14 Wall. 69, 81; Krippendorf
v. Hyde, 110 U. S. 276, 281.; Lammon v. Feusier, 111 U. S.
17, 19; Covell v. Heyman, 111 U. S. 176, 179, 180; Dewey
v. West FairmontGas Coal Co., 123 U. S. 329, 333; Gumbel
v. Pitkin, 124 U. S. 131,144; Morgan's Co. v. Texas Central
Railway, 137 U. S. 171, 201; Byers v. McAuley, 149 U. S.
608, 615; Root v. Woolworth, 150 U. S. 401, 413; Moran v.
Sturges, 154 U. S. 256, 274; White v. Ewing, 159 U. S. 36,
39; Carey v. Houston & Texas Ry., 161 U. S. 115, 130; In
re Johnson, 167 U. S. 120, 125; Pope v. Louisville &c. Ry.,
173 U. S. 573, 577; Wabash Railroad v. Adelbert College,
208 U. S. 38, 54), because complainants have not planted
themselves upon that ground.
Complainants are not parties to the proceeding in
bankruptcy, and are setting up rights in opposition to
the adjudication and the appointment of trustees therein.
They seek to have the trustees restrained from prosecuting
the equity suit against them in the state court of Florida,
and to that end undertake to show (a) that the bankruptcy proceedings were void for want of jurisdiction;
(b) that the entire proceedings were a fraud upon the
Bankrupt Act; and (c) that, even if the ioceedings were
valid, the appointment of the trustees was void. This
is the theory of the bill of complaint, and it is by this that
the right of ultimate appeal to this court is to be tested,
rather than by the grounds upon which the District Court
and the Circuit Court of Appeals reached conclusions
adverse to the relief prayed. Were the views adopted by
those courts found to be untenable, it would be necessary
to pass upon the attack made by complainants upon the
title of the trustees in bankruptcy; and to do this would
require us to determine the construction and effect of
those provisions of the Bankrfiptcy Act that bear upon
the matters of fact averred as the basis of the attack.
We deem, therefore, that the suit is one arising under
the laws of the United States, within the meaning of
voL,,

=cxxiv--46

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

§ 24, Judicial Code, and the motion to dismiss will be
denied.
Upon the merits, we find it unnecessary to consider the
views expressed by the District Court, since it seems to us
that the view of the Circuit Court of Appeals as to the
effect of § 720, Rev. Stat., is correct, and is sufficient to
dispose of the case.
The substance of the matter is that complainants allege
that they are the owners of certain property in Florida in
which defendants, as trustees in bankruptcy of the Port
Tampa Company, assert an equitable claim or interest,
to establish which they are prosecuting or attempting to
prosecute an equitable action in a Florida state court
against complainants. The latter aver that because of
fraud, or for other reasons, the proceedings and adjudication in bankruptcy and the appointment of defendants as
trustees are invalid, and that for this reason any decree
that may be made by the Florida state court will not be
binding upon the Port Tampa Company. As already
mentioned, the specific prayer is that defendants may be
restrained from asserting or claiming as trustees in bankruptcy, in any court or place, any right, title or interest
in the property. There is a prayer for general relief, but
it was pointed out by the Circuit Court of Appeals (207
Fed. Rep. 543, 544) that no right to relief other than by
way of an injunction was brought to the attention of the
District Court or of the Court of Appeals upon the hearing. The general prayer should therefore be treated as
abandoned.
So far as the action already pending in the Florida court
of equity is concerned, the case is clearly within § 720,
Rev. Stat. (§ 265, Judicial Code, 36 Stat. 1162, c. 231):
"The writ of inj unction shall not be granted by apy court of
the United States to stay proceedings in any court of a
State, except in cases where such injunction may be authorized by any law relating to proceedings in bank-

HULL v. BURR.

234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ruptcy." The latter clause formerly had reference to
§ 5106, Rev. Stat. (§ 21 of the Bankruptcy Act of March 2,
1867, 14 Stat. 517, 526, c.176); in the place of which we
now have § 11 and sub-divisions 7 and 15 of § 2 of the
Bankruptcy Act of July 1, 1898 (30 Stat. 544, 546, 549,
c. 541). It is quite evident that the injunction sought by
the present complainants is not one authorized by the
Bankruptcy Act.
The prohibition against injunctions to stay proceedings
in state courts originated in the act of March 2, 1793
(c. 22, § 5, 1 Stat. 333, 335), and has been constantly observed by the courts. See Diggs v. Wolcott, 4 Cranch, 179;
Peck v. Jenness, 7 How. 612, 625; Watson v. Jones, 13
Wall. 679, 719; Haines v. Carpenter, 91 U. S. 254, 257;
Dial v. Reynolds, 96 U. S. 340; Chapman v. Brewer, 114
U. S. 158, 172; United States v. Parkhurst-DavisCo., 176
U. S. 317, 320; Hunt v. New York Cotton Exchange, 205
U. S. 322, 338; Prentis v. Atlantic Coast Line, 211 U. S.
210, 226.
It is recognized, however, that § 720 was not intended
to limit the power of the Federal courts to enforce their
authority in cases that on other grounds are within their
proper jurisdiction; and hence, it has been held that, in
aid of its jurisdiction properly acquired, and in order to
render its judgments and decrees 'effectual, a Federal
court may restrain proceedings in a state court which
would have the effect of defeating or impairing such jurisdiction. French, Trustee, v. Hay, 22 Wall. 250; Dietzsch v.
Huidekoper, 103 U. S. 494, 497; Julian v. Central Trust
Co., 193 U. S. 93, 112; Traction Co. v. Mining Co., 196
U. S.239, 245.
The contention that the present case falls within this
exception to the general application of § 720, because the
bill is really filed in aid of the judgment of a Federal court,
that is to say, the judgment in favor of Hull in the ejectment suit in the Circuit Court of the United States for

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

the Southern District of Florida, will not bear analysis.
The ejectment suit was commenced after the adjudication
of bankruptcy, and the bill does not aver that the judgment cut off the equitable rights of the Port Tampa Company, but on the contrary declares that if that company
had any title to the property, legal or equitable, at the
time of the adjudication of bankruptcy, such title still
remains in the company. It is not averred that the claim
of equitable right on the part of the company is inconsistent with the judgment, or should be subordinated to it.
The present trustees, or either of them, were not made
parties to the ejectment suit, nor is the company made a
party to the present action. And, upon the whole, it
seems to us that by no interpretation or construction
can the present bill be deemed to have been filed in aid of
the judgment in ejectment, or be sustained upon that
theory.
It is argued that the bill cannot be deemed to have as
its object the staying of a pending suit in the state court,
because that action abated upon Burr's resignation as
trustee, and no further proceeding can be had until his
successors have been made parties. To this point a decision of the Florida Supreme Court in the very action is
cited; Hull v. Burr, 62,Florida, 499. We do not interpref
this decision as sustaining the contention, and in a subsequent stage of the same litigation (64 Florida, 83), the
court distinctly held that the action did not abate on
the resignation of Burr, but might be proceeded with
by his successors when appointed, the same as if originally
instituted by them; and that a supplemental bill was the
proper procedure to have such successors formally brought
into the case as partles. Indeed, it is only upon the theory
that defendants are prosecuting that suit that the complainants show ground for an injunction against them.
To the suggestion that the term "any court," in the
bill of complaint, may include other Federal courts, it is

SOUTHERN RY. CO. v. CROCKETT.
234 U. S.

Syllabus.

to say that the bill is devoid of any showing that
defendants are asserting claims against complainants' title
in any court other than the Florida state court. Hence
there is no occasion to invoke the general rule that the
court first obtaining jurisdiction of a controversy should
be permitted to proceed without interference. Peck v.
Jenness, 7 How. 612, 624; CentralNational Bank v. Stevens,
169 U. S. 432, 459; Bigelow v. Old Dominion Copper Co.,
74 N. J. Eq. 457, 473, et seq.
We deem that the main object of the bill, to which all
else is incidental, is in contravention of § 265 of the Judicial Code (formerly § 720 of the Revised Statutes), and
that therefore the decree should be
Affirmed.

-sufficient

SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY v. CROCKETT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE
OF TENNESSEE.

No. 826.

Submitted April 16, 1914.-Decided June 22, 1914.

Motion to dismiss a writ of error to the state court to review a judgment in an action under the Employers' Liability Act in which the
construction of the Safety Appliance Acts was involved, denied.
By the Employers' Liability Act the defense of assumption of risk remains as at common law, save in those cases mentioned in § 4 where
the violation by the carrier of any statute enacted for the safety of
employ~s contributed-to the accident.
This court has heretofore construed the letter of the Safety Applianee
A-ct in the light of its spirit. and purpose as indicated by the title no
less than by the enacting clauses and. that guidin ._Qrincipleshould
be adhered to.
Although the original Safety Appliance Act may not have applied to
vehicles other than freight, cars, the amendment of 1903 so broadened its scope as to make its provisions, including those respecting

