OCAMPO v. UNITED STATES.
234 U. S.

Syllabus.

the Federal act is not only untenable but so devoid of
color as to furnish no basis for this writ of error. See
Sawyer v. Piper, 189 U. S. 154.
As it is not claimed that by reason of the shifting from
one law to the other the defendant was cut off from
presenting any defense which was open only under the
latter, or that the course taken by the plaintiff deprived
the defendant of a right of removal otherwise existing,
we intimate no opinion in either connection.
Writ of error dismissed.

OCAMPO v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.

No. 270.

Argued March 12, 13, 1914.-Decided May 25, 1914.

Section 2 of act No. 612 of the Philippine Commission of February 3,
1903, providing that in cases triable before the Court of First Instance in the City of Manila the accused should not be entitled as of
right to a preliminary examination in any case in which the prosecuting attorney after due investigation shall have presented an information against him, necessarily operated to repeal inconsistent provisions previously in force in the City of Manila.
The Philippine Bill of Rights, as contained in § 5 of the act of July 1,
1902, contains no specific requirement, such as is contained in the
Fifth Amendment, of a presentment or indictment by grand jury,
nor is such a requirement included within the guaranty of due process
of law.
The guaranty of equal protection of the law in the Philippine Bill of
Rights does not require territorial uniformity. It is not violated if
all persons within the territorial limits of their respective jurisdictions are treated equally.
Section 2 of Act No. 612 is not in conflict with that paragraph of § 5
of the act of July 1, 1902, which provides that no warrant shall issue
but upon probable cause supported by oath or affirmation; a pre-

92

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
OpiniOn 'of the Court.

234 U. S.

liminary investigation by the prosecuting attorney upon which he
files a sworn information is a compliance with such provision.
A finding of probable cause for arrest by a prosecuting attorney is only
quasi-judicial; and a statute, otherwise valid, is not invalidated by
delegating the duty of investigation to a prosecuting attorney.
On the evidence in this case the trial court properly held that the defendant was, under the law of the Philippine Islands, the responsible
proprietor of the newspaper which published the libel on which the
prosecution was based.
The appellate jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of the Philippine
Islands is not confined to errors of law but extends to a review of the
whole case. It has power to reverse the judgment of the Court of
First Instance in a criminal case and find the accused guilty of a
higher crime and increase the sentence. Trono v. United States, 139
U. S.521.
18 Philippine, 1, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the validity of a judgment of
the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands in a prosecution for criminal libel and the validity of Act No. 612 of
the Philippine Commission, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. William R. Harr, with whom Mr. Clement L. Bouve
was on the brief, for plaintiffs in error.
The Solicitor General for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.
On November 5, 1908, an information was filed in the
Court of First Instance of the City of Manila, charging
plaintiffs in error, with others, as editors, proprietors,
owners, directors, writers, managers, administrators,
printers, and publishers of the newspaper "El Renacimiento," with publishing in that city a libel against Dean
C. Worcester, then a member of the Philippine Commission. The information was subscribed and sworn to by
the acting prosecuting attorney, and appended to it,
and likewise sworn to. by him, was the following declara-

OCAMPO v. UNITED STATES.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

tion: "A preliminary investigation, has been conducted
under my direction, having examined the witnesses under
oath, in accordance with the provisions of section 39 of
Act 183 (Manila Charter), as amended by section 2 of
Act 612 of the Philippine Commission." Both affidavit%
were made before the judge of the Court of First Instance,
who thereupon issued warrants of arrest, pursuant to
which the parties accused were on the same day brought
before the court. The information was read to them, and
the court allowed them until November 7th to answer.
Their attorney, being present, asked that they be furnished with a copy of the information, which request was
granted, and a copy was delivered to each of the accused.
Thereafter, and on November 7th, before entering any
demurrer or answer, they moved to vacate the order of
arrest, upon the ground that it was made without any
preliminary investigation held by the court, and without
any tribunal, magistrate, or other competent authority
having first determined that the alleged crime had been
committed, and that there was probable cause. to believe
the defendants guilty of it; the procedure adopted being,
as was claimed, in violation of §§ 12 and 13 of General
Orders, No. 58, issued by the Military Governor April 23,
1900, and of paragraphs 1, 3, 11, and 18 of § 5 of the
Philippines Bill, enacted by the Congress of the United
States on July 1, 1902; and it was insisted that § 2 of Act
No. 612 of the Philippine Commission, which took from
accused persons in the City of Manila the right to a preliminary investigation, was contrary to the cited paragraphs of the Philippines Bill, because it provided that
accused persons in that city might be deprived of their
liberty without due process of law, denied to the inhabitants of that city the equal protection of the law, deprived persons detained there to answer for a criminal
offense of the "proper judicial proceedings," and violated
the guaranty against arbitrary detention.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Coiirt.

234 U. S.

This motion being overruled, defendants moved for an
order requiring the prosecuting attorney to submit to
the court and to them for examination the proceedings
of the preliminary investigation alleged to have been
conducted by him. 'This, motion was likewise overruled.
Defendants then asked the court to hold a preliminary
investigation before calling upon them to either demur to
or answer the complaint. This motion being denied, demurrers were filed, which were overruled, and the defendants were called upon to plead to the information. They
stood mute, and-a plea of not guilty was entered for each
of them. Upon their request, separate trials were granted.
Ocampo was found guilty, and sentenced to six nqonths
imprisonment and to pay a fine of 2.000 pesos and onefifth of the costs of the action. Kalaw was also found
guilty, and sentenced to nine months imprisonment and
to pay a fine of 3000 pesos and one-fifth of the costs.
Upon their writ of error, the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands affirmed the judgment as to Ocampo, and
modified the sentence imposed upon Kalaw so as to increase the period of his imprisonment to twelve months.
18 Phil. Rep. 1. The present writ of error was then sued
out.
The insistence is here renewed, that the arrest and trial
of plaintiffs in error was without a preliminary finding of
probable cause, and therefore in violation of rights secured
to them by the Philippine Bill of Rights (Act of July 1,
1902, § 5, c. 1369, 32 Stat. 691, 692). This act, following
the provisions of certain of the Amendments of the Constitution of the United States, declares, inter alia:
"SEc. 5. That no law shall be enacted in said islands
which shall deprive any person of life, liberty, or property
without due process of law, or deny to any person therein
the equal protection of the laws

OCAMPO v. UNITED STATES.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

"That no person shall be held to answer for a criminal
offense without due process of law;
"That no warrant shall issue, but upon probable cause,
supported by oath or affirmation. .
"
Prior to its enactment, and under date April 23, 1900,
General Orders,.No. 58, had been promulgated by the
Military Governor, amending the Criminal Code of Procedure in certain respects, and providing by §§ 12 and 13
that every person making complaint charging the commission of a crime must inform the magistrate of all persons believed to have any knowledge of its commission,
whereupon the magistrate must issue subpoenas requiring
them to attend as witnesses, and must examine the informant or prosecutor and the witnesses and take their
depositions in writing, and if satisfied from the investigation that the crime complained of had been committed
and that there was reasonable ground to believe that the
party charged had committed it, the magistrate must
issue an order of arrest.
By § 40 of Act No. 183 of the Philippine Commission
(the Manila Charter, enacted July 31, 1901), municipal
courts with criminal jurisdiction were established, and
were empowered to conduct preliminary examinations and
to release, or commit and bind over any person charged
with an offense to secure his appearance before the proper
court; it being among other things provided that "every
person arrested shall, without unnecessary delay, be
brought before a municipal court or a court of first instance
for preliminary hearing, release on bail or trial."
Section 44 provided for two justices of the peace for the
City of Manila, to exercise within the city the civil jurisdiction conferred upon justices of the peace in Act No. 136;
but they were debarred from ekerzising any criminal jurisdiction, such jurisdiction within the city being confined
to C6urts of First Instance and the municipal courts.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

By Act No. 186 (August 5, 1901), the existing courts of
justices of the peace in the City of Manila were abolished,
and civil actions and proceedings then pending therein
were transferred to the courts of justices of the peace established under Act No. 183, while pending criminal actions and proceedings were transferred to the municipal
courts established under Act No. 183.
Act No. 194 (August 10, 1901), in its first section provides: "Every justice of the peace in the Philippine Islands
is hereby invested with 'authority to make preliminary
investigation of any crime alleged to have been committed
within his municipality, jurisdiction to hear and determine which is by law now vested in the Judges of Courts
of First Instance." And it is by the same section made
the duty of every justice of the peace, when written complaint under oath is made to him that a crime has been
committed within his municipality, and there is reason to
believe that any person has committed it, or when he has
knowledge of facts tending to show the commission of a
crime within his municipality by any person, to issue an
order for the arrest of the accused and have him brought
before the justice for preliminary examination. Section 2
prescribes the procedure, which accords to the accused the
right to examine the complaint and affidavits, to be present
and hear and cross-examine the witnesses for the Government, to offer witnesses in his own behalf, and give his
own testimony if he desires; and "upon the conclusion of
the preliminary investigation, if the Justice of the Peace
is of the opinion that there is reasonable cause to believe
that an offense has been committed and that the accused
is guilty thereof, he shall so declare and shall adjudge that
the accused be remanded to jail for safe-keeping to await
the action of the Judge or Court of First Instance, unless
he give bail," etc.; . . . "On the other hand, if the
Justice of the Peace be of the opinion that no crime has
been committed, or that there is no reasonable ground to

OCAMPO v. UNITED STATES.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

believe the accused guilty thereof, the Justice of the Peace
shall order the discharge of the accused. Such discharge,
however, shall not operate as a final acquittal of the accused, but he may be again arrested and prosecuted for the
same offense."
It was and is contended by plaintiffs in error that the
procedure thus indicated ought to have beenrfollowed in
their case.
The prosecution proceeded upon the theory that the
above requirements as to -preliminary examination and the
finding of probable cause were repealed as to the City of
Manila by Act No. 612 of the Philippine Commission
(February 3, 1903), § 2 of which provides:
"In cases triable only in the Court of First Instance in
the City of Manila, the defendant shall have a speedy
trial, but shall not be entitled as of right to- a preliminary
examination in any case where the Prosecuting Attorney,
after a due investigation of the facts, under section thirtynine of the Act of which this is an amendment [Act
No. 183,] shall have presented an information against him
in proper form: Provided, however, That the Court of First
Instance may make such summary investigation into the
case as it may deem necessary to enable it to fix the bail
or to determine whether the offense is bailable."
Section 39 of the Charter Act, here referred to, provides:
"The Prosecuting Attorney of the city of Manila shall
have charge of .the prosecution of all crimes, misdemeanors
and violations of city ordinances, in the Court of First Instance and the municipal courts of the city of Manila.
He shall investigate all charges of crimes, misdemeanors,
and violations of ordinances, and prepare the necessary
informations or make the necessary complaints against
the persons accused, and discharge all other duties in respect to criminal prosecutions enjoined upon provincial
fiscals in the General Provincial Act and the Criminal Code
of Procedure. . , . The Prosecuting Attorney or any
I VOL. ccxxxIv-7

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

of his assistants may, if he deems it wise, conduct investigations in respect to crimes, misdemeanors and violations of ordinances by taking oral evidence of reputed
witnesses, and for this purpose may, by subpoena, summon
witnesses to appear and testify under oath before him, and
the attendance or evidence of an absent or recalcitrant
witness may be enforced by application to the municipal
court or the Court of First Instance."
It was this procedure that was followed in the present
case. If Act No. 612 is consistent with the Declaration of
Rights .contained in § 5 of the act of Congress of July 1,
1902, there can be no question that it necessarily operates
to repeal, with respect to the City of Manila, inconsistent
provisions previously in force there, as above mentioned.
Section 5 of the act of Congress contains no specific requirement of a presentment or indictment by grand jury,
such as is contained in the Fifth Amendment of the Constitution of the United States. And in this respect the
Constitution does not, of its own force, apply to the Islands.
Hawaii v. Mankichi, 190 U. S. 197; Dorr v. United States,
195 U. S. 138; Dowdell v. United States, 221 U. S. 325, 332.
That the requirement of an indictment by grand jury is
not included within the guaranty of "due process of law"
is of course well settled. Hurtado v. California, 110 U. S.
516; McNulty v. California, 149 U. S. 645; Dowdell v.
United States, supra; Lem Woon v. Oregon, 229 U. S. 586,
589, and 6ases cited.
It is contended that since Act No. 612 denies to the inhabitants of Manila the right to a preliminary examination
which is accorded to all other people in the Islands, it
denies the equal protection of the laws guaranteed by the
act of Congress. But it was long ago decided that this
guaranty does not require territorial uniformity. In Missouri v. Lewis, 101 U. S. 22, 30, this court (by Mr. Justice
Bradley) said:
"The last restriction [of the Fourteenth Amendment],

OCAMPO v. UNITED STATES.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

as to the equal protection of the laws, is not violated by
any diversity in the jurisdiction of the several courts as
to subject-matter, amount, or finality of decision, if all
persons within the territorial limits of their respective
jurisdictions have an equal right, in like cases and under
like Circumstances, to resort to them for redress. Each
State has the right to make political subdivisions of its
territory for municipal purposes, and to regulate their
local government. As respects the administration of justice, it may establish one system of courts for cities and
another for rural districts, one system for one portion of
its territory and another system for another portion.
Convenience, if not necessity, often requires this to be
done, and it would seriously interfere with the power of a
State to regulate its internal affairs to deny to it this right.
We think it is not denied or taken away by anything in
the Constitution of the United States, including the
amendments thereto."
And see Hayes v. Missouri, 120 U. S. 68, 72; Chappell
Chemical Co. v. Sulphur Mines Co. (No. 3), 172 U. S. 474;
Mallett v. North Carolina, 181 U. S. 589, 598.
It is, however, further contended that Act No. 612 only
undertakes to deny to the inhabitants of the city the right
to a preliminary investigation when the prosecuting attorney sees fit to conduct an ex parte examination, and
that it does not cover the subject of probable cause for the
arrest of the accused, or affect the right accorded by
§§ 12 and 13 of General Orders, No. 58, and by that paragraph of § 5 of the act of Congress of July 1, 1902, which
declares "That no warrant shall issue but upon probable
cause, supported by oath or affirmation." In overruling
this contention the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands followed its previous rulings in United States v. Wilson, 4 Phil. Rep. 317, 322; United States v. McGovern, 6
Phil. Rep. 621, 623; United States v. Raymundo, 14 Phil.
Rep. 416, 436.

100

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

It is insisted that the finding of probable cause is a
judicial act, and cannot properly be delegated to a prosecuting attorney. We think, however, that it is erroneous
to regard this function, as performed by committing
magistrates generally, or under General Orders, No. 58, as
being judicial in the proper sense. There is no definite
.adjudication. A finding that there is no probable cause
is not equivalent to an acquittal, but only entitles the accused to his liberty for the present, leaving him subject
to rearrest. It is expressly so provided by § 14 of General
Orders, No. 58, as it is by § 2 of Act 194, above quoted.
Such was the nature of the duty of a committing magistrate in the common-law practice, and it is recognized in
Rev. Stat., § 1014. Benson v. McMahon, 127 U. S. 457,
462, 463; In re Luis Oteiza y Cortes, 136 U. S. 330, 335;
Todd v. United States, 158 U. S. 278, 283. In short, the
function of determining that probable cause exists for the
arrest of a person accused is only quasi-judicial, and not
such that, because of its nature, it must necessarily be confided to a strictly judicial officer or tribunal. By § 9 of the.
act of July 1, 1902 (32 Stat. 691, 695, c. 1369), Congress
enacted: "That the Supreme Court and the courts of first
instance of the Philippine Islands shall possess and exercise
jurisdiction as heretofore provided and such additional
jurisdiction as shall hereafter be prescribed by the Government of said Islands, subject to the power of said government to change the practice and method of procedure.
The municipal courts of said Islands shall possess and exercise jurisdiction as heretofore provided by the Philippine Commission, subject in all matters to such alteration
and amendment as may be hereafter enacted by law;"
etc. Here we find clear warrant for modifications of the
practice and procedure; and since § 5 of the same act
(quoted above) does not prescribe how "probable cause"
shall be determined, it is, in our opinion, as permissible
for the local legislature to confide this duty to a prosecut-

OCAMPO v. UNITED STATES.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

ing officer as to entrust it to a justice of the peace. Consequently, a preliminary investigation conducted by the
prosecuting attorney of the City of Manila, under Act
No. 612, and upon which he files a sworn information
against the party accused, is a sufficient compliance with
the requirement "that no warrant shall issue but upon
probable cause, supported by oath or affirmation."
The views above expressed render it unnecessary for us
to consider whether the objections thus far dealt with were
waived by the plaintiffs in. error when they gave bond at
the time of their arrest.
It is next insisted that the conviction of Ocampo was
erroneous for. want of evidence that he was a proprietor
of the newspaper or participated in the publication of the
libel. The law is to be found in Act No. 277 of the Philippine Commission (Phil. Pen. Code 1911, p. 167), of which
two sections may be quoted:
"SEC. 2. Every person who wilfully and with a malicious
intent to injure another publishes or procures to be published any libel shall be punished by a fine of not exceeding
two thousand dollars or imprisonment for not exceeding
one year, or both." :
"SEC. 6. Every author, ,editor, or proprietor of any book,
newspaper, or serial publication is chargeable with the
publication of any words contained in any part of such
book or number of each newspaper or serial as fully as if
he were the author of the same."
The evidence abundantly supports the conclusion of the
courts below that Ocampo was the administrator, manager, and one of the owners of the newspaper known as
"El Renacimiento," and there was no error in holding
him to be a proprietor within the meaning of § 6.
Finally, it is contended that the Supreme Court of the
Philippines had no jurisdiction to increase the punishment
of Kalaw. The court was established by Act No. 136 of
the Philippine Commission (June 11, 1901), with original

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

and appellate jurisdiction. By § 18 it was given appellate
jurisdiction over the courts of first instance; and by § 39
it was enacted that "The existing Audiencia or Supreme
Court is hereby abolished, and the Supreme Court provided by this Act is substituted in place thereof." It is in
effect conceded that under the Spanish system the courts
of first instance were deemed examining courts, having a.
sort of preliminary jurisdiction, and that their judgments
of conviction or acquittal were not final until the case had
been passed upon in the Audiencia or Supreme Court.
But it is contended that this was so far changed by General
Orders, No. 58, §§ 42, 43, 44, and 50, and by Act No. 194
of the Philippine Commission, § 4 (August 10, 1901), that
the judgments of the court of first instance are final unless
an appeal be taken. And so it was held, with respect to
cases other than capital, in Kepner v. United States, 195
U. S. 100, 121. But this does not settle the question of
the jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of the Islands
where an appeal is taken. In the acts referred to, the
right of the Government, as well as of the defendant, to
appeal from the judgment in a criminal case was recognized. In the Kepner Case it was held that § 5 of the act
of Congress of July 1, 1902, in declaring that "no person
for the same offense shall be twice put in jeopardy of
punishment," prevented an appeal by the Government
from a judgment of acquittal in the court of first instance.
But in Tfono v. United States, 199 U. S. 521, where the
defendants appealed from a judgment of the court of
first instance, which upon an indictment for murder had
found them guilty of the lower crime of homicide, it was
held the Supreme Court of the Islands had power .to reverse the judgment and find the accused guilty of the
higher crime of murder; distinguishing the Kepner Case.
In Flemister v. United States, 207 U. S. 372, a judgment
of the insular Supreme Court, increasing the sentence
imposed by the court of first instance, was affirmed. See,

CARLSON v. CURTISS.
234 U. S.

Syllabus.

also, Dowdell v. United States, 221 U. S. 325, 327; Pico v.'
United States, 228 U. S. 225, 230. In short, the appellate
jurisdiction of the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands
in criminal cases is not confined to mere errors of law, but
extends to a review of the whole case. And such is the
settled practice of that court. United States v. Abijan,
1 Phil. Rep. 83, 85; United States v. Atienza, 1 Phil. Rep.
736, 738.
Judgment affirmed.

CARLSON v. STATE OF WASHINGTON, ON THE
RELATION OF CURTISS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
WASHINGTON.
No. 307.

Submitted March 17, 1914.-Decided May 25, 1914.

Although plaintiff in error, after setting up a Federal defense in the
trial court, may not have based. any exceptions upon the failure of
that court to recognize it, if the appellate court did recognize, and by
its decision necessarily overruled, that defense, this court must deal
with the Federal question. North Carolina R. R. v. Zachary, 232
U. S. 248.
While, in ordinary cases, this court is bound by the findings of the state
court of last resort, that court cannot, by omitting to pass upon basic
questions of fact, deprive a litigant of the benefit of a Federal right
properly asserted; and it is the duty of this court, in the absence of
adequate findings, to examine the record in order to determine
whether there is evidence which furnishes a basis for such a Federal
right. Southern Pacific Co. v. Schuyler, 227 U. S. 601.
M.fter reviewing the congressional and state legislation in regard to the
construction of the Lake Washington Waterway, held that Congress
has refrained from authorizing any work on behalf of the Federal
Government with reference to lowering the level of Lake Washington, and that all responsibility in that respect was assumed by the
State and county; aid, notwithstanding the contract was made by

