OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for the United States.

234 U. S.

is a mere cover for rebates or discriminations, such practices may be controlled by the Commission under the authority given to it in the Act to Regulate Commerce.
We find no error in the disposition the Commerce Court
made of this case, and its judgment is therefore
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES OF AMERICA v. AXMAN.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 242.

Argued March 9, 1914.-Decided May 25, 1914.

Where, after default of the original contractor, the contract is relet,
the original contractor is not bound for difference unless the contract
as relet is the same as the original contract.
Where a contract for dredging requires the dredged material to be de,posited in a specified location, changes made as to the location for
depositing such materials amount to such an important variation
that the first contractor cannot be held for difference. United States
v. McMullen, 222 U. S. 460, distinguished.
Change in location for depositing material dredged under a government contract is not to be regarded as a minor change; it is clearly
an important one.
193 Fed. Rej. 644, affirmed.
THE facts, which involve the rights and liabilities of
a contractor and his surety under a contract with the
Government, are stated in the opinion.

The Solicitor Generalfor the United States:
After the annulment of the contract by reason of the
contractor's default it became the duty of the Government
to complete the work at reasonable cost and to diminish

UNITED STATES v. AXMAN.
234 U. S.

37

Argument for Appellee Axman.

as far as possible the loss which it had suffered and for
which it proposed to hold the defendants liable.
. The change which was made in the terms was to the
manifest ease of the defendants and lessened the cost of the
work as relet without increasing in any particular the burden which either the principal or the surety had assumed.
Where the Government relets a contract, the suretiesand a fortiori the principal--are not relieved because there
are differences in the terms which diminish the cost of
the work as relet. See United States v. McMullen, 222
U. S. 460, which is controlling and decisive of the case at
bar, in fact, the similarity of incident and issues is unique.
This decision followed in time the first opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals herein, and it may fairly be assumed
that the latter court'was as yet unadvised of it at the time
of its final action.
Mr. Frank W. Aitken, with whom Mr. John R. Aitken
was oa the brief, for appellee Axman:
The action is not for damages, but is on a contract to
pay the cost of certain work.
There can be no recovery except for completing the
work.
The change made was material; the Government did
not proceed to complete the contract, but did other Work
instead.
The contractor's rights after annulment are subject
to the same rules as those of a surety.
The change was detrimental and new obligations were
imposed.
The contract did not authorize, such change unless
made by agreement.
In support of these contentions, see Alcatraz Masonic
Ass'n v. U. S. F. and G. (7o., 85 Pac. Rep. 157-8; Am.
Bonding Co. v. United States, 167 Fed. Rep. 910; Am.
Bonding Co. V. Gibson County, 127 Fed. Rep. 671; American

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

Surety Co. v. Woods, 105 Fed. Rep. 741; S. C., 106 Fed.
Rep. 263; Axman v. United States, 47 Ct. Cl. 537; S. C.,.48
Ct. Cl. 376; Burnes v. Fidelity Co., 96 Mo. App. 467;
Calvert v. London Dock Co., 2 Keen, 638; Chesapeake Co.
v. Walker, 158 Fed. Rep. 850; Durrellv. Farwell,88 Texas,
98; 30 S. W. Rep. 539; Holme v. Brunskill, L. R. Q. B. Div.
495; PrairieBank v. United States, 164 U. S. 227; Miller v.
Stewart, 2 Cr. 700; O'Connor v. Bridge Co., 27 S. W. Rep.
251, 983; Reese v. United States, 9 Wall. 13; Reissaus v.
White, 106 S. W. Rep. 607; State v. Medary, 17 Oh. St.
565; Taylor v. Johnson, 17 Georgia, 521; United States v.
Corwine, Fed. Cases, No. 14,871; United States v. Freel, 92
Fed. Rep. 306,; United States v. Freel, 186 U. S. 309; United
States v. Freel, 99 Fed. Rep. 239; United States v. McMullen, 222 U. S. 460; United States v. O'Brien, 220 U. S.
321; United States v. Robeson, 9 Pet. 319, 327; White v.
Sisters of Charity, 79 Il. App. at 649.
Mr. Edward Duffy, with whom Mr. Jesse W. Lilienthal
was on the brief, for appellee American Bonding Company:
The contract and evidence excluded did not tend to
prove issues.
The contract fixed method of proving damages.
No change could be made after annulment. See Baer
v. Sleicher, 163 Fed. Rep. 129; United States v. Freel, 186
U. S. 309; United States v. McMullen, 222 U. S. 460;
United States v. O'Brien, 220 U. S. 321.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
Suit was brought by the United States to recover on a
contract between the United States and Axman with the
American Bonding Company, as surety, for dredging in
San Pablo Bay, California. The first trial resulted in a
judgment for the United States, which was reversed by the
Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit. 167 Fed.

UNITED STATES v. AXMAN.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Rep. 922. On new trial judgment directed in favor of the
defendants was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals
(193 Fed. Rep. 644), and the case is brought here.
It appears that on the twenty-fifth of August, 1902, the
United States called for bids for dredging in San Pablo Bay.
On September 30, 1902, Axman submitted his proposal to
furnish all the plant, labor and materials for the work.
On November 21, 1902, a written contract was entered
into between Axman and the United States for the work.
Axman was to do such dredging in the Bay as might be
required by the Government engineer in accordance with
certain specifications for the sum of 11.44 cents per cubic
yard. The specifications, which were made a part of the
contract, contained,, among others, the following paragraphs:
"35. The shoal to be dredged is in San Pablo Bay,
California, is about five miles in length, and has a least
depth of 19 feet at low water. It extends from Pinole
Point to Lone Tree Point, and is distant 1% to 1Y statute
miles N. W. of the points referred to. The average depth
of the excavation is about 9 feet.
"36. The work to be done is to excavate a channel
through the shoal, to have a bottom width of 300 feet, a
depth of 30 feet at mean low water, and a length of about
27,000 feet;,to deposit the spoil as near the south shore as
practicable, within lines drawn between Pinole Point and
Lone Tree Point, at such places as may be designated by
the Engineer officer in charge; and to impound the material behind bulkheads or dykes of suitable construction,
subject to approval by the Engineer officer in charge,
which must be built and maintained by and at the expense
of the contractor during the life of the contract.
"39. All dredged material is to be deposited within the
limits of the area described in paragraph 36. The method
'of deposit will be subject to approval by the Engineer
officer in charge.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

"31. The contractor will be required to commence
work under the contract within sixty days after the date
of notification of approval of the contract by the Chief of
Engineers, U. S. Army, to prosecute the said work with
faithfulness and energy, and to complete it within twentyeight (28) months, after the date of commencement.
"46. The work must progress at the rate of at least
100,000 cubic yards per month, and to entitle the contractor to the monthly payments provided for in paragraph 30 of these specifications, an average of not less than
100,000 cubic yards per month must have been dredged
and deposited; the calculation of averages to be made
from the day on which the contract requires the work
to be commenced."
A place for the building of the bulkhead was designated
in accordance with paragraph 36 of the specifications, and
Axman built a bulkhead 2400 feet long, consisting of two
arms, one of 1800 feet and one of 600 feet. The outlines
of the channel to be dredged were also indicated. Axman
began work and continued intermittently until December 24, 1903, up to which date he had removed 196,000 cubic yards, but had not in any month removed 100,000 cubic
yards. It appears that the barges in Axman's outfit were
of such draft that they were unable to get behind the
bulkhead except at high tide; that he applied to the engineer officer in charge to be allowed to dump the spoil
on the noith side of the channel or down at "The Sisters,"
but permission was refused him so to do. This place is
the one where the material was subsequently dumped
when the contract was relet.
Paragraph 4 of the contract provides:
"4. If, in any event, the party of the second part
shall delay or fail to commence with the delivery of the
material or the performance of the work on the day
specified herein, or shall, in the judgment of the Engineer
in charge, fail to prosecute faithfully and diligently the

UNITED STATES v. AXMAN.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

work in accordance with the specifications and requirements of this contract, then, in either case, the party of
the first part, or his successors legally appointed, shall
have power, with the sanction of the Chief of Engineers,
to annul this contract by giving notice in writing to that
effect to the party (or parties, or either of them) of the
second part, and upon the giving of such notice all payments to the party or parties of the second part, under
this contract, shall cease, and all money or reserve percentage.due, or to become due the said party or parties
of the second part, by reason of this contract, shall be
retained by the party of the first part until the final completion and acceptance of the work herein stipulated to be
done; and the United States shall have the right to recover
from the party of the second part whatever sums may be
expended by the party of the first part in completing the
said contract in excess of the price herein stipulated to be
paid the party of the second part for completing the same,
and also all costs of inspection and superintendence incurred by the said United States, in excess of those payable by the said United States during the period herein
allowed for the completion of the contract by the party of
the second part, and the party of the first part may deduct
all the above, mentioned sums out of or from the money
or reserve percentage retained as aforesaid; and upon the
giving of the said notice, the party of the first part shall
be authorized to proceed to secure the performance of the
work or delivery of the materials by contract, or otherwise,
in accordance with law."
There are other paragraphs permitting the Chief of
Engineers, if he sees fit, to employ additional plant or purchase materials, etc., to insure the completion of the work
within the time specified, charging the cost thereof to the
contractor, such provision, however, not to be construed
so as to affect the right of the Government to annul the
contract. The Government, on the ground that Axman

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.

Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

had failed to comply with the requirements of the specifications, proceeded under the provisions of paragraph 4,
wherein it will be seen it was stipulated that the United
States might have the right to recover from the party of
the second part whatever sums might be expended by the
party of the first part in completing the contract.
When the contract was relet. it was advertised in the
alternative, giving the contractor the right to deposit
spoil where Axman was required to deposit it within lines
drawn between Pinole Point and Lone Tree Point at such
places as might be designated by the engineer officer and
to impound the material behind bulkheads of suitable
construction, subject to the approval of the engineer
officer, to be built and maintained at the expense of the
contractor, or to deposit the spoil in water exceeding 50
feet in depth lying within the area bounded by lines drawn
from The Sisters to Point San Pablo, thence to Marin
Islands, and thence back to The Sisters. The bid accepted
and the contract made provided for the deposit of the
spoil in deep water at The Sisters. At the trial the Government offered evidence of witnesses as to the fairness of
the price paid the North American Dredging Company,
the new contractor, under the relet contract and as to
whether it cost more to dredge and dump the spoil behind
the line drawn between Pinole Point and Lone Tree Point
than to dredge and dump in deep water. All of the opinion
evidence offered by the Government was received by
the court under objection, and at the conclusion of the
case ruled out and the jury instructed to render a verdict
for the defendants.
It is thus apparent that the real question in the case is
whether the contract relet for the completion of the work
under paragraph 4 of the original contract was a contract
for work for which Axman was bound and which he had
failed to carry out, or whether it was a different contract
and therefore one for which Axnan and' his surety cannot

UNITED STATES v. AXMAN.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

be held and which cannot be used for the measure of recovery for breach of the original contract.
The Government insists that the main pur'pose of the
original contract was to secure the dredging of the channel
and that the place of dumping the spoil was but incidental.
The contract, however, does not so read. It specifically
made the place of dumping the spoil an essential and particular term of the contract. It is not necessary to inquire
into the reason which actuated the Government in making
this requirement. It may be that it desired the spoil to
be retained at a place outside of the channel and that such
retention was a better way of doing the work than to deposit the spoil in deep water. It is enough to say that the
contract, part of which we have heretofore set forth, specifically provided for dumping the spoil behind the bulkhead. As we have said, the engineer refused permission to
dump the spoil at a place other than that designated in the
specifications. This position of the engineer was warranted
by the terms of the contract, for by paragraph 36 of the
specifications the depositing of material and impounding
it behind bulkheads as provided in the contract were made
an essential part of the work to be done, and it is provided
by specification 38 that material deposited otherwise than
as specified will not be pa!id for, and by paragraph 39 that
all dredged material was to be deposited within the area
specified in paragraph 36, and by paragraph 53 that all
material must be excavated and deposited under the
supervision of the engineer officer in charge. It therefore
follows that not only was Axman to dredge the channel
as required by the contract, but he was to deposit the spoil
as therein specified. Dredging the channel would not be
enough to show performance of his contract, unless he
complied with the other material requirement as to the
deposit of the spoil. The new contract contained a different stipulation as to the dumping of the spoil. Upon
the showing made in this case we think the change in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

place of dumping the spoil was very material, and could
not be made' consistently with the terms of the agreement
under which Axman undertook to perform the work or be
liable as stipulated .in paragraph 4.
Both sides refer to the case of United States v. McMullen,
222 U. S. 460. In that case a suit was brought upon a contract and bond, the contract providing for certain dredging. The contractor asked for leave to dump the spoil
in deep water instead of on shore, which was at first refused, but afterwards granted. The contractor, however,
failed to do the work and abandoned it. The Navy Department declared the contract void, and, after advertising, entered into a new contract. The defense principally
made and treated of in the opinion of the court rested
upon the alleged extension of time which it was contended
worked a discharge of the surety. After disposing of that
question in favor of the Government, this court said
(p. 471):
"The objection that the second contractor does not appear to have completed the work intended to be accomplished by the first, that is to have made a channel of a
certain depth, does not impress us. The first contract was
for certain work for a certain object,, but limited and subject to change as the appropriations might require. The
second was for the same on the same plans and specifications, the only difference being in the parties, the price,
and the liberty given to the second contractor to dump in
deep water, which diminished the cost. In the first contract the Government reserved an absolute right of choice
in this regard. Whether the object of the contract was
attained is immaterial, so long as the work done towards
it was work that the first contractor had agreed to perform."
We thus observe that in the McMullen Case it was found
that the liberty given to the second contractor to dump
in deep water did not change the contract, because in the

UNITED STATES v. AXMAN.
234 U. S.

45

Opinion of the Court.

first contract the Government reserved an absolute right
of choice in this regard. In the present case there was no
such right of choice. The place of dumping spoil was made
as we have said, a specific requirement of the contract.
Under paragraph 6 such changes as are here involved must
be agreed upon in writing by the contracting parties, the
agreement setting forth clearly reasons for the change,
giving quantity and prices, to take effect only upon the
approval of the Secretary of War. Minor changes are
provided for in paragraph 58 of the specifications, but
clearly such an important change as this one has proven to
be is not of that character.
In the McMullen Case, in treating of the right reserved
in the first contract giving the Government an absolute
choice of the dumping ground, it was concluded, "whether
the object of the contract was attained is immaterial, so
long as the work done towards it was work that the first
contractor had agreed to perform." We are clearly of the
opinion in this case that the work done under the second
contract was not the work which the first contractor had
agreed to perform. Whi].e it is true it accomplished the
dredging of the channel in the same Bay, it did this with
a disposition of the spoil not permitted under the first contract and in a material matter was different from the contract first entered upon.
We reach the conclusion that the Circuit Court of Appeals rightly decided this case, and its judgment is accordingly
Affirmed.

