MANHATTAN LIFE INS. CO. v. COHEN.
234 U. S.

123

Statement of the Case.

MANHATTAN LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY OF
NEW YORK v. COHEN, EXECUTOR.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF CIVIL APPEALS FOR THE FOURTH
SUPREME JUDICIAL DISTRICT OF THE STATE OF TEXAS.

No. 160. Submitted April 17, 1914.-Decided June 8, 1914.
A Federal question may not be imported into a record for the firsttimeby
wayof assignmentof error made for the purpose of review by thiscourt.
As a general rule, for the purpose of review by this court, rights under
the full faith and credit clause of the Federal Constitution are required to be expressly set up and claimed in the court below.
Denial of full faith and credit -to the statutes of another State cannot
be made the basis of review by this court where it appears that the
court below reached the same result that plaintiff contended for on
grounds wholly independent of the Federal question and sufficient
to sustain its action.
This court has already decided that state statutes, such as that of
Texas imposing a 12% penalty and an attorney's fee, for damages
for delay in payment of proper claims, are not unconstitutional under
the Fourteenth Amendment fs depriving life insurance companies of
their property without due process of law or as denying them the
equal protection of the law.
A payment made by a life insurance company to one of two claimants
on receiving a bond of indemnity, held, under the circumstances of
'this case, not to have been the payment of a stakeholder seeking to
discharge his duty but of a person espousing the cause of one claimant against the other and thereby subjecting himself to the legal consequences arising from his action.
This court cannot review on itl merits a case which it must dismiss
for want of jurisdiction.

THE defendant in error was the plaintiff below and sued
the Manhattan Life Insurance Company, which we shall
speak of as the Company, on two policies on the life of
Jacob Cohen in his own favor, written in 1893 in Texas
where Cohen resided, the Company then doing business
in that State through an agency. It was averred that although the Company had admitted liability on the policies, it had not paid the loss and was therefore respqnsiblp

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Statement of the Case.

234 U. S.

not only for the sum due insured with interest, but also for
12 per cent. as statutory penalty *ordamages and $1000.00
attorneys' fees.
The answer denied liability to the plaintiff. It admitted
issuing the policies, but averred that in 1907 the insured,
Cohen, borrowed $875 on each and pledged the policies as
security, which loans were unpaid. It was averred that in
July, 1907, Cohen sold to Hilsman, of Atlanta, Georgia, his
interest in the policies and executed assignments and orders on the Company to deliver the policies to him on payment of the debts for which they were pledged. These
documents were annexed to the answer. The origin and
course of the negotiation which ultimated in the assignments were thus stated: Hilsman had an agent at San
Antonio, Texas, where Cohen lived. The transactions
"were begun" and "definitely agreed upon" between
Cohen and the agent, "the agreement being that Hilsman
would pay Jacob Cohen $460.00 for his equity in sai
policies, whereupon Cohen wired Hilsman to send papers,
and the following correspondence, by letter and telegram,
passed between.them." Hilsman in answer to the first,
telegram from Cohen wrote enclosing him assignments
of the policy and necessary notices to the Company with
directions for their execution and asking besides for certain papers which he required to show Cohen's ownership
free from the claims of other persons, the letter ending
with the statement, "Send all the papers, that are herewith enclosed, duly executed in a sealed envelope, with
this draft attached, (evidently the draft for the price) and
upon arrival if in good shape-we will duly honor."
Cohen replied by letter explaining that he did not have
particular papers which had been asked for, but had others
which he thought were their equivalent and proposing to
execute the assignment and send these papers, the letter
concluding with the statement, "if this meets with your
approval please wire me upon receipt of this letter and I

MANHATTAN LIFE INS.' CO. v. COHEN.
234 U. S.

.125

Statement of the Case.

shall forward papers." Hilsman answered by telegiam
favorably and confirmed it by letter saying that if the
papers were sent, "we will promptly honor the draft, provided the papers are in good shape." On the day the telegram last referred to was received, Cohen transmitted the
executed papers with the accompanying documents by
mail saying, "I beg to inclose all documents
which I trust you will find correct and will honor my draft
for $460.00 attached to these documents." The answer
specifically alleges that the draft was sent from San Antonio for collection through a bank in that place and as
the answer states that the draft was attached to the papers
and this conformed to the instructions which we have seen
were given by Hilsman to Cohen, the answer therefore in
effect averred that the papers and draft were delivered to
a bank in San Antonio to be transmitted to Atlanta, the
papers to be delivered to Hilsman if after examination he
found the papers satisfactory and paid the draft. The answer then in paragraph 8 contained the following averments:
"Said Jacob Cohen, Hilsman and his said agent were
engaged in speculative transactions, and said assignments
were made as a part of and in connection with a certain
transaction in what is commonly called 'cotton futures,'
the money being paid to and received and used by Jacob
Cohen to speculate in the future price of cotton, without
its being contemplated that there would be actual delivery
thereof, or bargain and sale, the said Hilsman or his said
agent, being interested in the transaction, and the purpose
of the transaction being known by all the parties, which
purpose was carried into effect, through the said agency of
.1.
H. Hilsman and J. H. Hilsman he being engaged in the
brokerage business."
It was averred that after the death of Cohen both his
executor and Hilsman, as owners of the policies, made demand upon the Company for payment; that the Company
admitted liability to some one and simply professed its

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Statement of the Case.

234 U. S.

desire to have the matter as to who was owner of the
policies settled so that it might make payment with safety.
To reach this result it was alleged that an unsuccessful
effort was made to have the parties agree to appear in a
suit where as to both of them, the Company admitting
liability, their rights might have been determined; and
that failing in this respect and being advised that under
the law of Georgia where the assignment to Hilsman was
made, it was legal and therefore his claim was valid, as
the most expeditious way of clearing up the matter the
Company paid Hilsman and took from him an indemnity
bond. While admitting that before the assignment and
at the time of its delivery Hilsman had no interest whatever in the life of Cohen, it was nevertheless averred that
the assignment of the policies was valid and authorized
under the laws of the States of Georgia and New York.
Averring moreover that all the acts of the Company in'
the
premises had been in good faith and arose not from any
desire to deny liability but simply from an honest purpose
to have it determined who owned the claims under the
policy, it was asserted that there could be in no event any
liability for interest by way of damages and for the attorney's fees as prayed.
By leave the plaintiff amended his petition "in replication and answer to

.

.

.

the answer of the defendant,

Manhattan Life Insurance Cc.," and asserted among other
things that the assignments of the policies alleged in the
answer were void upon two distinct grounds: (1) Because
"under and by virtue of the laws of the State of Texas,
the State of New York and the State of Georgia, and each
of them, an assignment of a life insurance policy to a person without insurable interest in the life of the insured,
is invalid and not binding upon the assignor or his representative." (2) Because "said alleged assignments of the
policies of insurance sued upon herein are invalid and not
binding upon it and were without legal consideration un-.

MANHATTAN LIFE INS. CO. v. COHEN.
234 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

der the laws of the State of Texas, the State of New York,
and the State of Georgia, for this, that at the time that
said assignments and each of them were made, executed
and delivered, that the said Jacob Cohen, J. H. Hilsman
and his said agent, were engaged in speculative transactions and that said assignments and each of them, were
made as a part of and in connection with the said transactions, in what is commonly called 'cotton futures,' the
money being paid to and received and used by. the said
Jacob Cohen to speculate in future prices of cotton without its being contemplated that there would be actual
delivery thereof, or bargain and sale; the said Hilsman
and his agent being interested in the transaction and the
purpose of the transaction being at and before the time
known to and by all the parties which said purpose was
carried into effect through the said agency J. H. Hilsman
and J. H. Hilsman, he being engaged at that time in the
brokerage business; all of which said facts were well known
to the defendant Insurance Company at and before the
time that it paid the said policies to the said Hilsman, as
in its said answer alleged and set forth."
For the purpose of the trial by the court without a jury
a written statement of facts was agreed to by both parties
in the form of petitioner's case, the case of the defendant
company and the reply of the petitioner. The statement
of the plaintiff admitted the issue of the policies, the lending of the money by the Company and the pledging of the
policies to secure it, the transfer or assignment by Cohen
for the consideration we have stated and under the circumstances which we have detailed, the gambling nature of
the transaction being expressly stated in accordance with
the averment of the answer of the Company and with the
allegation of the amended pleading of the plaintiff, the
death of Cohen, the claim of both parties on the insurance
company, the effort of the Company to secure a suit to
which both the claimants should be parties in order -to

128

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

234 U. S.

relieve it from responsibility, its failure to secure that result and its payment to Hilsman of the amount upon the
giving by him of indemnity, all substantially as alleged
in the pleadings we have stated. The agreed facts contained this statement:
"It was not the purpose of the Insurance Company to
contest or delay payment, and the payment to Hilsman
was made under the circumstances above set out. It is
not the purpose of this agreement to determine how far,
if at all, the facts in respect to notice and good faith are
material issues in this case, that being deemed a question
of law, nor is this agreement to be construed as admitting
as a matter of law that Hilsman had any right to said
policies or their proceeds, or that said payment, or any
part thereof, was rightfully made to him. It is, however,
agreed as a fact that Hilsman has not been repaid said sum
of $460.00, and the Insurance. Company has not been repaid the amount of said loan, except as above stated, and
that nothing has yet been paid to the plaintiff."
The Company as part of its case introduced certain
statutes of the State of Georgia 'and decisions of the court
of last resort of that State interpreting the same for the
purpose of showing that Cohen had a right to sell and Hilsman to purchase in Georgia the insurance policies, although Hilsman had no insurable interest in Cohen's life.
In rebuttal the plaintiff introduced certain decisions of
the court of last resort of Georgia deemed to establish the
contrary result and also'offered statutes of that State dealing with gambling transactions and the right to sue concerning the same. The trial court found the facts substantially as embodied in the statements referred to.
Mr. William J. Moroney for plaintiffs in error:
The Texas statute, as Construed and applied in this
case by the state court, is repugnant to the Fourteenth
Amendment.

MANHATTAN LIFE INS. CO. v. COHEN.
234 U. S.

129

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error'.

The judgment of the state court denied full faith and
credit to the statutes of Georgia that were pleaded and
proved in defense of this suit, in violation of the full faith
and credit provision of the Constitution of the United
States.
In support of these contentions, see Rev. Stat. Texas,
Art. 3071; Civil Code Georgia, §§ 2114, 2116, 3077; Atchison T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. Sowers, 213 U. S.55; Atlantic
Coast Line Ry. Co. v. Wharton, 207 U. S. 328; Attorney
Generalv. Lowrey, 199 U. S.639; Bacon v. Texas, 163 U. S.
216; Beer V. Landman, 88 Texas, 450; Bolin v. St. Louis Ry.
Co., 61 S.W. Rep. 444; Br.idge Proprietorsv. Hoboken Co., 1
Wall. 116; Cawthorne v. Perry, 76 Texas, 338; Cheeves v.
Andres, 87 Texas, 287; Clark v. San Francisco, 124 U. S.
639; Collins v. Texas, 223 U. S. 288; Dartmouth College
Case, 4 Wheat. 518; El Paso Ry. Co. v. Gutierrez, 215 U. S.
87; Estay v. Luther, 142 S.W. Rep. 649; Farmers'Ins. Co.
v. Dobney, 188 U. S.301; Fidelity Life Ins. Co. v. Mettler,
185 U. S.308; Fidelity Life Ins. Co. v. Zapp, 160 S.W. Rep.
139; Furman v. Nichol, 8 Wall. 44; Ex parte Garland, 4
Wall. 333; Grigsby v. Russell, 222 U. S.149; Gulf, C. & S.
Fe Ry. Co. v. Dennis, 224 U. S. 503; Gulf, C. & S. Fe
Ry. Co. v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150; Illies v. Fitzgerald, 11
Texas, 429; Iowa Life Ins. Co. v. Lewis, 187 U. S. 264;
Ludy v. Larson, 37 L. R. A. (N. S.) 907; Martin v. West,
224 U. S. 191; Murdock v. Memphis, 20 Wall. 590;
NorthwesternLife Ins. Co. v. McCue, 223 U. S.234; Pacifici
Life Ins. Co. v. Williams, 79 Texas, 633; St. Louis
Ry. Co. v. Wynne, 224 U. S. 354;; Schofield v. Turner,
75 Texas, 324; Southwestern Ins. Co. v. Woods Nat'l
Bank, 107 S.W. Rep. 114; Stanley v. Schwalby, 162 U. S.
255; Tilt v. Kelsey, 207 U. S. 42; Vandalia Ry. Co. v.
Indiana, 207 U. S. 359; Washington Life Ins. Co. v.
Gooding, 49 S.W. Rep. 123; Wilson v. Black Bird Creek
Co., 2 Pet. 245; Yazoo &c. Co. v. Jackson Vinegar Co.,
226 U. S.217.
VOL. CCXXXIV-9

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

234 U. S.

Mr. Wilmer S. Hunt, Mr. Sterling Myer and Mr. C. A.
Teagle for defendant in error:
The Supreme Court will not consider questions not
raised and passed on in the court below, nor consider other
Federal questions than the one raised.
The assignment of the insurance policies was a Texas
contract.
If the contract was a Georgia contract, yet if invalid
under the laws of Texas, the law of comity between States
does not require its enforcement by the Texas courts.
The contract of assignment was even void under. the
laws of Georgia.
Article 3071, Texas Rev. Stat., is constitutional.
There was no right of the insurance company to recover
the $460.00 paid to Cohen by Hilsman.
A general assignment raising a Federal question will
not be considered.
On error from a state court, the Supreme Court will
only consider the Federal question which gives it jurisdiction.
In support of these contentions, see Acts Texas Legislature 1907, p. 172; 24 Am. & Eng. Ency. of Law, 1052;
Armstrong v. Toleri 11 Wheat. 258; Arnott v. Coal Co., 23
Am. Rep. (N. Y.) 190; Association v. Mettler, 189 U. S.
150; Atlantic Coast Line v. Wharton, 207 U. S. 328; Beardsley v. Beardsley, 138 U. S. 262; Beer. v. Landaman, 88
Texas, 450; Bigelow v. Benedict, 70 N. Y. 206; Cameron v.
Barcus, 71 S. W. Rep. 423; Capitol City Dairy Co. v. Ohio,
183 U. S. 238; Cheeves v. Anders, 87 Texas, 291; Clark v.
McDade, 165 U. S. 170; Cothran v. Telegraph Co., 83
Georgia, 25; Dewey v. Des Moines, 175 U. S. 193; Dugger
v. Ins. Co., 81 S. W. Rep. 335; Embree v. McLean Co.,
11 Tex. Civ. App. 493; Falkner v. Hyman, 142 Massachusetts, 53; Farmers Ins. Co. v. Dabney, 189 U. S. 301;
Fletcher v. Williams, 66 S. W. Rep. 861; Fowler v. Bell, 90
Texas, 150; Furman v. Nichols, 8 Wall. 75; Georgia Code,

MANHATTAN LIFE INS. CO. v. COHEN.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Arts. 3537, 3668, 3671; German Society v. Dormitzer, 192
U. S. 124; Green v. Van Buskirk, 7 Wall. 139; Hamblen v.
Western Land Co., 147 U. S. 531; Hill v. Spear, 50 N. H.
253; Homer v. United States, 143 U. S. 570; Insurance Co.
v. Bank, 107 S. W. Rep. 114; Insurance Co. v. Williams, 79
Texas, 633; Insurance Co. v. Hazelwood, 75 Texas, 351;
Irvin v. Williams, 110 U. S. 508; Jones v. Aiken, 80 S. W.
Rep. 285; Keokuk & H. B. Co. v. Illinois, 175 U. S. 193;
Maxwell v. Newbold, 18 How. 511; McLaughlin v. Fowler,
154 U. S. 663; 1 Meechurn on Sales, §§ 8430, 484; Messenger v. Mason, 10 Wall. 507; Murdock v. Memphis, 20
Wall. 590; Myrick v. Thompson, 99 U. S. 297; Norris v.
Logan, 97 S.W. Rep. 20.; Osborne v. Florida,164 U. S.650;
Oscanyon v. Arms Co., 103 U. S.261; Pope v. Hanke, 40
N. E. Rep. 842; Railway v. Dennis, 224 U. S.503; Railway
v. Wynne, 224 U. S. 354; Rev. Stat. Texas, Art. 3071;
Schonfield v. Turner, 75 Texas, 329; Seligson v. Lewis, 63
Texas, 220; Storey v. Solomon, 71 N. Y. 422; Sweeney v.
Ousley, 53 Kentucky, 413,; Telegraph Co. v. Blanchard, 68
Georgia, 299; Tilt v. Kelsey, 207 U. S.43; Tracey v. Talmage, 67 Am. Dec. (N. Y.) 132; Wheeless v. Myer, 12 S.W.
Rep. 712; Wilson v. Namie, 102 U. S.572; Wilton v. Ins.
Co., 78 S. W. Rep. 403:; Zipcey v. Thompson, 1 Gray
(Mass.), 242.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE, after making the foregoing
.statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

Upon the pleadings which we have just stated and the
facts stipulated, the trial court gave judgment for the
plaintiff, Cohen, against the defendant company for the
amount of the policies less the sums which had been loaned
thereon by the Company with interest and with the statutory penalties and attorney's fees claimed.
To recapitulate, it suffices to say that the assignments
of error made by the Company in the court below for the

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

purpose of the appeal by it taken but expressed the defenses resulting from its answer and the stipulated facts
which we have stated. That is to say, reliance was placed
(1) upon the proposition that in any event the recourse of
the plaintiff was against Hilsman and not against the
Company; (2) that the transfer of the policies to Hilsman
was a Georgia contract and valid under the law of that
State because the existence of insurable interest at the
time of the transfer, although necessary under the Texas
law, was not necessary under the Georgia law; (3) that
as in any event the transaction out of which the assignment of the policies from Cohen to Hilsman grew was admittedly a gambling one, the court would not allow the
executor of Cohen to derive any rights from assailing that
transaction, but would leave the parties where their illegal
contract had placed them, that is, let the assignment to
Hilsman stand, and hence leave no right in Cohen, executor, to recover; (4) that the court erred in giving judgment for the statutory penalties and damages because
under the circumstances stated the liability to pay them
was not embraced by the statute under which they were
imposed and that if the statute, as construed, imposed the
damages and attorney's fee which were allowed, it was in
violation of § 1, of the Fourteenth Amendment.
In an elaborate opinion the court disposed of all these
contentions. It held that the suit need not be brought
against I1lsman but that it could be brought directly
against the Company. It decided that the contract of
assignment was a Texas contract and for want of insurable
interest in Hilsman was invalid under the laws of that
State, although it was in substance admitted that it would
have been valid, so far as the question of insurable interest
was concerned, if it had been a Georgia contract. Coming
to consider the fact that both parties had conceded that
the transaction out of which the assignment of the policies
grew was purely of a gambling nature and that that fact

MANHATTAN LIFE INS. CO. v. COHEN.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

had been stipulated, the court refused to sustain the following proposition which was insisted upon by the defendant company: "When an insurance policy is assigned as
part of a gaming transaction, the law will give no relief
to either party, or to their heirs, executors or assigns, regardless of all other questions, but will leave the parties
where they have voluntarily placed themselves." On the
contrary the court, relying upon the Texas law upon that
subject, the Georgia law on the same subject and the
principles of general law applicable thereto, held that instead of leaving the assignment growing out of the gambling transaction enforceable in the hands of Hilsman it
would in consequence of the illegality, strike down the
whole transaction and therefore leave the policy'in the
hands of Cohen the insured, to whom it belonged before
the assignment had been made.. And for this reason also
the court decided that the sum paid by Hilsman for the
transfer need not be repaid by Cohen in order to recover.
On the subject of the penalties the court referring to the
cases of Fidelity Mutual Life Association v. Mettler 185
U. S. 308, and Farmers' & Merchants' Insurance Company
v. Dobney, 189 U. S. 301, held that the statute under which
they were imposed was not repugnant to the Fourteenth
Amendment and said: "The action of the Insurance Company in paying the money due on the policies was not, as in
Insurance Co. v. Woods Nat. Bank, 107 S. W. Rep. 119, an
offer of the Insurance Company to pay to the one of the
two real claimants when it should be determined whom
he was, but a voluntary payment to the rival claimant
who had no right whatever to the amount due on the
policy. The company has indemnified itself against its
act in paying the money due on the policy to one who was
not entitled to receive it; now let it resort to its indemnity."
At the threshhold we must dispose of a motion to dismiss. It is apparent from the statement of the case that
the only express assertion of Federal right had reference to

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

the statutory penalty and the attorney's fee. The assignments of error however, assert violations of rights under
the Constitution in many. particulars, but more especially
with reference to the action of" the court in treating the
sales of the policies as Texas contracts and refusing to apply the Georgia law which admittedly differed fundamentally from that of Texas. It is elementary that a
Federal question may not be imported into a record for
the first time by way of assignments of error made for
the purposes of review by this court. Moreover as a general rule it is true that for the purposes of review by this
court rights under the full faith and credit clause, § 1,
Article IV of the Constitution, come within that class
which are required to be expressly set up and claimed in
the court below. Johnson v. New York Life Ins. Co., 187
U. S. 491; El Paso and Southwestern R. R. v. Eichel, 226
U. S. 590, 597; Chicago, Ind. and L. Ry. Co. v. Hackett, 228
U. S. 559, 565. Let it be conceded, as we think it must be,
where the record leaves no doubt that rights under the
full faith and credit clause were essentially involved and
were necessarily passed upon, there would be jurisdiction
to review even although such rights had not been expressly
asserted below (see Tilt v. Kelsey, 207 U. S. 43, 51); the
right to review under such condition being in effect but a
result of the elementary rule that it is irrelevant to inquire
how and when a Federal question was raised in a court
below when it appears that such question was actually
considered and decided. But these concessions are irrelevant, even although it be further conceded that the ruling
of the court below as to the necessity for an insurable interest and its governing the case by the law of Texas instead of by the law of Georgia brings this case within the
doctrines just stated. We say this because of the existence
of another and fundamental question which causes the
concessions stated to be immaterial. Both parties, as we
have seen, wholly independent of the existence of an in-

MANHATTAN LIFE INS. CO. v. COHEN.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

surable interest, affirmed the illegality of the transaction
out of which the assignments of the policies grew because
of the alleged gambling nature of the transaction and the
admitted facts without dispute established that situation.
There being thus an admission by both parties and no dispute concerning the illegality of the transaction and a
difference only as to the consequences to arise from such
illegality, it follows that the case reduces itself to a consideration of that subject. But on coming to its consideration it is plain that no question coIcerning the full faith
and credit clause was involved in any contention made below by the plaintiff in error in that regard, since the rights
deduced from the admitted illegality of the transaction
were placed sofely on considerations of the local law of the
State of Texas and of the State of Georgia deemed to be
applicable to such condition of things or upon what was
deemed to be the controlling principles of general law on
the subject. Indeed, so absolutely is this the case, that,
as we have seen, the Company itself insisted on the illegality and based rights upon it. And it was only on behalf
of the defendant in error that considerations involving the
full faith and credit clause were suggested as controlling
the results'in consequence of the admitted illegality of the
transaction as a gambling one. A condition which is illustrated by the fact that the reply petition of the plaintiff
while accepting and reiterating the averment of illegality
made in the answer of the defendant Company, in addition
specially alleged that the illegality resulting from the
gambling transaction caused the assignment of the policies
to be void under the law of New*York where the Company
was organized and under the law of Texas, as well as under
the law of Georgia. And it was for this reason that the
proof which was offered as to the statute law of Georgia
on the subject of gambling transactions and the decision or
decisions of that State which it was deemed made the
statute applicable were tendered on behalf of the plaintiff

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

and not by the defendant company. It would be indeed
anomalous when the parties had both relied upon the
illegality of the transaction upon grounds wholly independent of any Federal right and the case had been decided upon that ground, which in and of itself is sufficient
to sustain the action of the court below, to permit one of
the parties because of his dissatisfaction with the application of such principles to assert the existence of jurisdiction
because the case rested on a Federal issue. It becomes
hence obvious that the assignments of error outside of the
one referring to the repugnancy to the Fourteenth Amendment of the statute imposing damages and penalties,
affords not the slightest pretext for the exercise of jurisdiction and they therefore may be put out of view.
Coining to consider the latter subject it may not be
doubted that the non-repugnancy of the assailed statute
to the Constitution of the United States has been directly
determined by this court in the cases upon which the lower
court based its ruling. (Fidelity Mut. Life Ass'n v. Mettler, 185 U. S. 308; Farmers' & Merchants' Ins.' Co. v.
Dobney, 189 U. S. 301.) But it is said that as previously
upheld the statute as construed by the state court contemplated a liability for the penalties or damages and attorneys' fees only in case there was a wilful refusal to pay
and therefore those decisions have no application here since
the statute as applied in this case enforces a liability
against the Company in spite of its action in the utmost
good faith, taken solely for the purpose of determining to
whom it must pay the sum due, liability as to which was
frankly conceded. But the deduction simply disregards
the basis upon which the court below rested its conclusion
and invites us upon a conception of injustice to commit a
wrong by reviewing a matter of purely local concern which
is not within our cognizance, We say this because clearly
the court below rested its conclusion as to liability for the
penalty and damages not upon the construction of the

MANHATTAN LIFE INS. CO. v. COHEN.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

statute suggested, but upon the premise that the payment
to Hilsman by the Insurance Company of the sum of the
policies under the circumstances stated was a payment
which took it out of the category of a mere stakeholder
seeking to discharge his duty in good faith and placing it
in the position of a person espousing the cause of one as
against the other and thereby subjecting himself to the
legal consequences arising from such action. And the considerations which we have stated also dispose of the contention concerning the wrong which it was insisted was
done in declaring the assignment of the policies void because of the gambling nature of the contract and yet permitting the assignor to hold on to the price paid for such
assignment. That question was involved in and controlled
by the court's ruling concerning the illegal nature of the
transaction and the principles applicable thereto, and
therefore it is beyond our competency to review.
As the repugnancy of the statute concerning the damages and attorney's fee was the only semblance of ground
for invoking our jurisdiction and as that ground was conclusively established to be without merit when the writ
of error was sued out, it follows that there is nothing upon
which to base jurisdiction and the writ of error must be
dismissed.
Dismissed for want of jurisdiction.

