OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
234 U. S.

Syllabus.

True, the testimony upon which the court rested its
conclusion that negligence was proved did not come from
the plaintiff's witnesses but from those for the carriers,
and was largely elicited by cross-examination, but that is
quite immaterial. The plaintiff was entitled to the benefit
of all the testimony in the case, from whatever source
it came, and was not required, even though having the
burden of proof, to go through the ceremony of proving
any fact otherwise established.
As it clearly appears that the judgment rested upon a
ground which was not only adequate to sustain it but in
entire harmony with the carrier's asserted Federal right,
it cannot be said that there was a denial of that right in
the sense contemplated by ยง 237 of the Judicial Code.
Whether the right was well founded we therefore need not
consider.
Writ of error dismissed.

WABASH RAILROAD COMPANY v. HAYES.
ERROR

TO THE

APPELLATE

COURT

OF

ILLINOIS,

FIRST

DISTRICT.
No. 843.

Motion to dismiss submitted April 27, 1914.-Decided May 25,
1914.

Plaintiff, an injured employ6 of an interstate common carrier by rail,
sued for personal injury, alleging that he was employed in interstate
commerce, and stating a good cause of action under the Federal
Employers' Liability Act, if so employed, and, if not, under the
state law; the defendant asked for an instruction that the proof did
not show that the injury occurred in interstate commerce, which
the court gave, and then, over defendant's objection, treated the
allegation to that effect as eliminated from the declaration and submitted the case to the jury as one under the state law, and plaintiff

WABASH R. R. v. HAYES.
234 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

had a verdict. Held, that defendant having asked for the instruction that the case could not. be maintained under the Federal act,
was bound thereby, and, therefore, was denied no right under the
Federal law by the action of the state court, and the writ of error
must be dismissed.
Where the state court treats a mistaken allegation that the injury
occurred in interstate commerce as eliminated,.it merely gives effect
to a rule of local practice and does not deprive defendant of any
Federal right.
Quare,as to what the effect would be if the shift from a claim under the
Federal act to one under the state law cut the defendant off from
presenting a defense open under the latter-or deprived him of a right
of removal.
Writ of error to review 180 Ill. App. 511, dismissed.

THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court to
review a judgment of the state court in an action by a
railroad employ6 for personal injuries which did not occur
in interstate commerce, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. James C. McShane for defendant in error in support
of the motion.
Mr. J. L. Minnis, Mr. John M. Zane and Mr. Charles F.
Morse for plaintiff in error, in opposition to the motion:
A Federal question is here involved; the Federal right
was claimed and denied in the state court.
This court has jurisdiction of this writ of error.
In support of these contentions, see Acardo v. N. Y. &c.
T. Co., 116 App. Div. N. Y. 793; Adams v. Capital State
Bank, 74 Mississippi, 307; Atkinson v. Bullard, 80 S. E.
Rep. 220; Chambers v. Balt. & Ohio R. R. Co., 207 U. S.
142; C. & G. T. R. Co. v. Spurney, 197 Illinois, 471; Clark v.
Southern Pacific Co., 175 Fed. Rep. 122; ConsolidatedCoal
Co. v. Peers, 97 Ill. App. 188; Cound v. Atchison &c. Ry.
Co., 173 Fed. Rep. 527; El Paso &c. R. R. Co. v. Gutierrez,
215 U. S. 87; Erie R. 1?. Co., v. Kennedy, 191 Fed. Rep. 332;
Green Bay &c. Canal to. v. Patten Paper Co., 172 U. S. 58;

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

Hallv. Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. C0., 149 Fed. Rep. 564;
Howerton v. Southern Ry.Co., 101 N. E. Rep. 121; Ill. Cent'
R. R. Co. v. Kentucky, 218 U. S. 551; Jones v. C. & 0. R.,
Co., 149 Kentucky, 566; Ky. Union.Co. v. Kentucky, 219
U. S. 140; Kleps v. Bristol Mfg. Co., 189 N. Y. 516; Leathe
v. Thomas, 207 U. S. 93; Mallett v. North Carolina,.181 U. S.
589; McKay v. Kalyton, 204 U. S. 458; Mondou v. N. Y.,
N. H. & H. R. Co., 223 U. S. 1; Nor. Car. R. R. Co. v.
Zachary, 232 U. S. 248; Nutt v. Knut, 200 U. S. 12; Payne
v. N. Y. &c. R. Co., 201 N. Y. 436; Payne v. N. Y., S. &
W. R. R. Co., 201 N. Y. 436; Powell v. Brunswick County,
150 U. S.440; St. Louis &c. R. Co. v. Seale, 229 U. S. 156;
St. Louis &c. R. Co. v. McWhirter, 229 U. S. 265; Troxell
v. Del., L. & W. R. Co., 227 U. S.434; VandaliaR. Co. v.
South Bend, 207 U. S. 359.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER

delivered the opinion of

the court.
This was an action against a railroad company to recover
for a personal injury sustained by the plaintiff through
the negligence of the company while he was employed as
a switchman in its railroad yard in Cook County, Illinois.
The action was brought in the Superior Court of that
county, and a trial to the court and a jury resulted in a
verdict and judgment for the plaintiff. The judgment
was affirmed by the Appellate Court for that district (180
Ill. App. 511), which was the highest court of the State in
which a decision of the case could be had, and this writ
of error was then sued out by the company. By a motion
to dismiss the writ our jurisdiction to review the judgment
is challenged. Shortly stated, the facts bearing upon the
disposition of the motion are these:
The plaintiff's declaration alleged that the injury occurred while the defendant was engaged, and while the
plaintiff was employed by it, in interstate commerce. The

WABASH R. R. v. HAYES.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

other allegations were such that, with that one, they stated
a good cause of action under the Federal Employers' Liability Act, April 22, 1908, 35 Stat. 65, c. 149, and, without
it, they stated a good cause of action under the common
law prevailing in the State. There was a plea of not guilty;
and upon the trial, the proof failing to show that the injury
occurred in interstate commerce, the court, at the defendant's request, instructed the jury that the Federal Employers' Liability Act had no application to the case.
Then, over the defendant's objection, the court treated
the allegation respecting interstate commerce as eliminated, and submitted the case to the jury as one controlled
by the common law prevailing in the State. The plaintiff
recovered under that law. In the Appellate Court the
defendant contended that, even though the allegation
that the injury occurred in interstate commerce proved
unwarranted, the declaration could not be treated, consistently with the Federal act, as affording any basis for a
recovery under the law of the State, common or statutory.
But the court held otherwise and sustained the recovery
under the- state law. Whether that ruling operated as a
denial of a right or immunity to which the defendant was
entitled under the Federal act is the question, and the
only question, sought to be presented by the assignments
of error.
Had the injury occurred in interstate commerce, as was
alleged, the Federal act undoubtedly would have been controlling and a recovery could not have been had under the
common or statute law of the State; in other words, the
Federal act would have been exclusive in its operation,
not merely cumulative. Mondou v. New York, New
Haven & Hartford Railroad Co., 223 U. S. 1, 53-55; St.
Louis &c. Railway Co. v. Seale, 229 U. S. 156, 158;
North CarolinaRailroad Co. v. Zachary, 232 U. S. 248, 256;
Seaboard Air Line Railway v. Horton, 233 U. S. 492. On
the other hand, if the injury occurred outside of interstate

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

commerce, the Federal act was without application and
the law of the State was controlling. Illinois Central
Railroad Co. v. Behrens, 233 U. S. 473. That the injury
did occur outside of interstate commerce was declared in
the court's instruction to the jury, and the defendant,
having requested the instruction, is bound by it. It
therefore
must be taken as settled that the right of recovery arose
under the state law.
The plaintiff asserted only one right to recover for the
injury, and in the nature of things he could have but one.
Whether it arose under the Federal act or under the state
law, it was equally cognizable in the state court; and had
it been presented in an alternative way in separate counts,
one containing and another omitting the allegation that
the injury occurred in interstate commerce, the propriety
of proceeding to a judgment under the latter count, after

it appeared that the first could not be sustained, doubtless
would have been freely conceded. Certainly, nothing in
the Federal act would have been in the way.
Instead of presenting his case in an alternative way, the
plaintiff so stated it as to indicate that he was claiming
only under the Federal act. And when the proofs demonstrated that the injury arose outside of interstate commerce and therefore that no recovery could be had under
the Federal act, the court was confronted with the question whether the declaration could be amended, or regarded as amended, to conform to the proofs. Holding
that this could be done, the court treated the mistaken
allegation that the injury occurred in interstate commerce
as eliminated. Therein the court merely gave effect to a
rule of local practice, the application of which was not in
anywise in contravention of the Federal act. See Mondou
v. New York, New Haven & Hartford Railroad Co., supra,
pp. 56-57.
It follows that the contention that the defendant was
denied a right or immunity to which it was entitled under

OCAMPO v. UNITED STATES.
234 U. S.

Syllabus.

the Federal act is not only untenable but so devoid of
color as to furnish no basis for this writ of error. See
Sawyer v. Piper, 189 U. S. 154.
As it is not claimed that by reason of the shifting from
one law to the other the defendant was cut off from
presenting any defense which was open only under the
latter, or that the course taken by the plaintiff deprived
the defendant of a right of removal otherwise existing,
we intimate no opinion in either connection.
Writ of error dismissed.

OCAMPO v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE ISLANDS.

No. 270.

Argued March 12, 13, 1914.-Decided May 25, 1914.

Section 2 of act No. 612 of the Philippine Commission of February 3,
1903, providing that in cases triable before the Court of First Instance in the City of Manila the accused should not be entitled as of
right to a preliminary examination in any case in which the prosecuting attorney after due investigation shall have presented an information against him, necessarily operated to repeal inconsistent provisions previously in force in the City of Manila.
The Philippine Bill of Rights, as contained in ยง 5 of the act of July 1,
1902, contains no specific requirement, such as is contained in the
Fifth Amendment, of a presentment or indictment by grand jury,
nor is such a requirement included within the guaranty of due process
of law.
The guaranty of equal protection of the law in the Philippine Bill of
Rights does not require territorial uniformity. It is not violated if
all persons within the territorial limits of their respective jurisdictions are treated equally.
Section 2 of Act No. 612 is not in conflict with that paragraph of ยง 5
of the act of July 1, 1902, which provides that no warrant shall issue
but upon probable cause supported by oath or affirmation; a pre-

