INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER v. KENTUCKY.
234 U. S.

579

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER COMPANY OF
AMERICA v. COMMONWEALTH OF KENTUCKY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
KENTUCKY.
No. 297.

Argued April 24, 1914.-Decided June 22, 1914.

It is essential to the rendition of a personal judgment against a corporation that it be doing business within the State; but each case
must depend upon its own facts to show that this essential requirement of jurisdiction exists.
The presence of a corporation within a State necessary to the service of
process is shown when it appears that the corporation is there carrying on business in such sense as to manifest its presence within the
State, although the business may be entirely interstate in its character.
The fact that the business carried on by a corporation is entirely interstate in its character does not render the corporation immune from
the ordinary process of the courts of the State.
.147 Kentucky, 655, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the validity and sufficiency of
service of process upon a foreign corporation and the determination of whether such corporation was doing business within the State, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Alexander Pope Humphrey and Mr. Edgar A. Bancroft, with whom Mr. Victor A. Remy was on the brief,
for plaintiff in error in this case and in No. 298.1
For cases involving questlions of service of process upon

foreign corporations as controlled by the Constitution of
the United States, see Ky. Stats., ยง 571 (1909); Commonwealth v. Hogan & Co., 25 Ky. L. R. 41; Commonwealth

v. Eclipse Hay Press Co., 31 Ky. L. R. 824; Three States
1See p, 590, post.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

234 U. S.

Buggy Co. v. Commonwealth, 32 Ky. L. R. 385; Goldey v.
Morning News, 156 U. S. 518; Conley v. Mathieson, 190
U. S. 406; Caledonian Co. v. Baker, 196 U. S. 432; Remington v. Cent. Pac. R. Co., 198 U. S. 95; Kendall v. Am.
Loom Co., 198 U. S. 477; Peterson v. C., R. I. & P. Ry.
Co., 205 U. S. 364; Green v. C., B. & Q. R. R. Co., 205
U. S. 530; Mechanical Appliance Co. v. Castleman, 215
U. S. 437; Saxony Mills v. Wagner, 94 Mississippi, 233;
Fawkes v. Am. Motor Co., 176 Fed. Rep. 1010.
At the time of the attempted service the defendant
was doing nothing but an interstate commerce business
with the people of Kentucky. Commonwealth v. Chattanooga Co., 126 Kentucky, 636; Brennan v. Titusville,
153 U. S. 289; Caldwell v. North Carolina, 187 U. S. 621.
The carrying on of interstate commerce by the defendant with persons residing in this State does not constitute
a doing of business in Kentucky. Cases supra,and Havens
v. Diamond, 93 Ill. App. 557.
Merely soliciting orders is not doing business in a State.
Cases supra, and Green v. C., B. & Q. Ry. Co., 205 U. S.
530; North Wisconsin Cattle Co. v. Oregon Short Line, 105
Minnesota, 198; Earle v. Ches. & Ohio Ry. Co., 127 Fed.
Rep. 235, 240; Fairbank v. Cincinnati &c. Ry. Co.,. 54
Fed. Rep. 420, 423; Grace v. Martin Brick Co., 174 Fed.
Rep. 131, 132; Kentucky Civil Code of Practice, ยง.51,
subd. 3 and 6.
To hold that defendant can be prosecuted in these cases
would violate the commerce clause of the Constitution.
Waters-PierceOil Co. v. Texas, 177 U. S. 27; Hadley-Dean
Co. v. HighlandGlass Co., 143 Fed. Rep. 242, 244; A lbertype
Co. vYGust-Feist Co., 102 Texas, 219; Eclipse Paint Co. v.
New Process Roofing Co., 55 Tex. Civ. App. 553; Moroney
Co. v. Goodwin Pottery Co. (Tex. Civ. App.), 120 S. W.
Rep. 1088, 1091.
The fact that the Harvester Company formerly carried
on business in Kentucky does not alter the situation.

INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER v. KENTUCKY.
234 U. S.

581

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Conley v. Mathieson Alkali Works, 190 U. S. 406; Inter-.
national Textbook Co. v. Pigg, 217 U. S. 91; St. Louis
S. W. Ry. v. Alexander, 227 U. S. 226.
Under the construction given the Kentucky Process
Statute by the Court of Appeals a person or corporation
doing exclusively an interstate comnerce business must
submit to the jurisdiction of Kentucky courts.
The submission to the state courts, which is requisite to
render
foreign corporations subject to suit,
cannot be
compelled or implied where such corporation does only
an interstate commerc6 business.
The cases relied upon by the Commonwealth do not
support its contentions..
Mr. Charles Carroll, with whom Mr. James Garnett,
Attorney General of the State of Kentucky, Mr. Frank E.
Daugherty,,Mr. J. R. Mallory, Mr. J. C. Dedman, Mr. C.
R. Hill and Mr. C. D. Florence were on the brief, for defendant in error in this case and in No. 298:1
Plaintiff in error cannot raise the question in this court
that the proceedings against it in these cases were a denial
to it of due process of law. Section 157, Crim. Code, Kentucky; Commonwealth v. Cheek, 1 Duval, 26; Commonwealth v. Neat, 89 Kentucky, 242; Payne v. Commonwealth, 16 Ky. L. R. 839; Sharp v. Commonwealth, 16 Ky.
L. R. 840; York v. Texas, 137 U. S. 15-20; Cosmopolitan
Mining Co. v. Walsh, 193 U. S. 469.
The process in this case was served upon the proper person and the judgment rendered thereon was valid and binding. St. Louis S. W, R. R. Co. v. Alexander, 227 U. S. 227.
As to effect of the instructions to agents from the plaintiff in error, see Good Roads Co. v. Commonwealth, 146
Kentucky, 690; Boyd CommissionCo. V. Coates,24 Ky. L. R.
730; Nelson Morris v. Rehkopf, 25 Ky. L. R. 352; Green v.
ISee p. 590, post.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

Chicago &c. R. R. Co., 205 U. S. 530; Denver &c. R. R.
Co. v. Roller, 100 Fed. Rep. 938; International Textbook
Co. v. Pigg, 217 U. S. 91; Delamater v. South Dakota, 125
U. S. 93; 19 Cyc. 1347-1348.
To hold that plaintiff in error was properly served with
process and the judgment rendered against it valid will
not violate the commerce clause of the Constitution.
International Harvester Co. v. Commonwealth, 147 Kentucky, 657.
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
This case presents the question of the sufficiency of the
service of process on an alleged agent of the International
Harvester Company in a criminal proceeding in Breckenridge County, Kentucky, in the court of which county an
indictment had been returned against the Harvester Company for alleged violation of the anti-trust laws of the
State of Kentucky. The Harvester Company appeared
and moved to quash the return, substantially upon the
ground that service had not been made upon an authorized agent of the company and that the company was not
doing business within the State of Kentucky, and it set
up that any action under the attempted service would
violate the due process and commerce clauses of the
Federal Constitution. The only question involved, says
the Court of Appeals, and we find none other in the record,
is whether there was such service of process as would
sustain the judgment. The court overruled the motion,
and, the case being called for trial and the Harvester
Company failing to appear or plead, judgment, by default
for $500 penalty was entered against it, which was affirmed
by the Court of Appeals of Kentucky (147 Kentucky,
655).
It appeared that prior to October 28, 1911, before this
indictment was returned, the Harvester Company had

INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER v. KENTUCKY.
234 U. S.

583

Opinion of the Court.

been doing business in Kentucky and had designated
Louisville, Kentucky, as its principal place of business,
in compliance with the statutes of Kentucky in that respect. It further appeared. that the Company had revoked the agency of one who had been appointed under
the Kentucky statute and had not appointed anyone else
upon whom process might bie served.
It is conceded in the brief of the learned counsel for the
plaintiff in error that whether the person upon whom
process was served was one designated by the law of Kentucky as an agent to receive summons on behalf of the
Harvester Company was a question within the province
of the Court of Appeals of Kentucky tofinally determine,
and no review of that decision is asked here. We come
then to the first question in this case, which is, Whether
under the circumstances shown in this case the Harvester
Company was carrying on business in the State of Kentucky in such manner as to justify the courts of that
State in taking jurisdiction of complaints against it.
For some purposes a corporation is deemed to be a
resident of the State of its creation, but when a corporation of one State goes into another in order to be regarded
as within the latter it must be there by its agents authorized to transact its business in that State. The mere
presence of an agent upon personal affairs does not carry
the corporation into the Foreign state. It has been frequently held by this court, and it can no longer be doubted
that it is essential to the rendition of a personal judgment
that the corporation be "doing business" within the
State. St. Louis S. W. Ry. v. Alexander, 227 U. S. 218,
226, and cases there cited. As was said in that case, each
case must depend upon its own facts, and their consideration must show that this essential requirement of jurisdiction has been complied with and that the corporation
is actually doing business within the State.
In the case now. under consideration the Court of Ap-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

peals -of Kentucky found, with warrant for the conclusion,
that the Harvester Company's method of conducting
business might be shown to the best advantage from the
general instruction of the company to its agents of date
November 7, 1911, as follows:
"The Company's transactions hereafter with the people
of Kentucky must be on a strictly interstate commerce
basis. Travelers negotiating sales must not hereafter
have any headquarters or place of business in that State,
but may reside there.
"Their authority must be limited to taking orders, and
all orders must be taken subject to the approval of the
general agent outside of the State, and all goods must be
shipped from outside of the State after the orders have
been approved. Travelers do not have authority to make
a contract of any kind in the State of Kentucky. They
merely take orders to be submitted to the general agent.
If any one in Kentucky owes the Company a debt, they
may receive the money, or a check, or a draft for the same
but they do not have any authority to make any allowance or compromise any disputed claims. When a matter
cannot be settled by payment of the amount due, the
matter must be submitted to the general or collection
agent, as the case may be, for adjustment, and he can
give the order as to what allowance or what compromise
may be accepted. All contracts of sale must be made
f. o. b. from some point outside of Kentucky and the
goods become the property of the purchaser when they
are delivered to the carrier outside of the State. Notes
for the purchase price may be taken and they may be
made payable at any bank in Kentucky. All contracts of
any and every kind made with the people of Kentucky
must be made outside of that State, and they will be contracts governed by the laws of the various States in which
we have general agencies handling interstate business
with the people of Kentucky. For example, contracts

INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER v. KENTUCKY.
234 U. S.

585

Opinion of the Court.

made by the general agent at Parkersburg, W. Va., will
be West Virginia contracts.
"If any one of the Company's general agents deviates
from what is stated in this letter, the result will be just
the same as if all of them had done so. Anything that is
done that places the Company in the position where it
can be held as having done business in Kentucky, will
not only make the man transacting the business liable
to a fine of from one hundred to one thousand dollars for
each offense, but it will make the Company liable for
doing business in the State without complying with the
requirements of the laws of the State. We will, therefore,
depend upon you to see that these instructions are strictly
carried out."
Taking this as the method of carrying on the affairs
of the Harvester Company in Kentucky, does it show a
doing of business within that State to the extent "which
will authorize the service of process upon its agents thus
engaged?
Upon this question the case is a close one, but upon the
whole we agree with the conclusion reached by the Court
of Appeals, that the Harvester Company was engaged in
carrying on business -in Kentucky. We place no stress
upon the fact that the Harvester Company had previously
been engaged in doing business in Kentucky and had withdrawn from that State for reasons of its own. Its motives
cannot affect the legal questions here involved. In order
to hold it responsible under the process of the state court
it must appear that it was carrying on business within the
State at the time of the attempted service. As we have
said, we think it was. Here was a continuous course of
business in the solicitation of orders which were sent to
another State gnd in response to which the machines of the
Harvester Company were delivered within the State of
Kentucky. This was a course of business, not a single
transaction. The agents not only solicited such orders

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

in Kentucky, but might there receive payment in money,
checks or drafts. They might take notes of customers,
which notes were made payable, and doubtless were collected, at any bank in Kentucky. This course of conduct
of authorized agents within the State in our juagment
constituted a doing of business there in such wise that the
Harvester Company might be fairly said to have been
there, doing business, and amenable to the process of the
courts of the State.
It is argued that this conclusion is in direct conflict
with the case of Green v. Chicago, Burlington &Quincy
Ry., 205 U. S. 530. We have no desire to depart from that
decision, which, however, was an extreme case. There
the Railway Company, carrying on no business in Pennsylvania, other than that hereinafter mentioned, and
having its organization and tracks in another State, was
sought to be held liable in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania by service
upon one Heller, who was described as an agent of the
corporation. As incidental and collateral to its business
proper the Company solicited freight and passenger
traffic in other parts of the country than those through
which its tracks ran. For that purpose it employed Heller,
who had, an office in Philadelphia, where he was known as
district freight and passenger agent, to procure passengers
and freight to be transported over the Company's line.
He had clerks and travelling passenger and freight agents
who reported to him. He sold no tickets and received no
payment for the transportation of freight, but took the
money of those desiring to purchase tickets and procured
from one of the railroads running west from Philadelphia
a ticket for Chicago and a prepaid order which gave the
holder the right to receive from the Company in Chicago
a ticket over its road. Occasionally he sold to railroad
employ~s, who already had tickets over intermediate
lines, orders for reduced rates over the Company's line.

INTERNATIONAL HARVIESTER v. KENTUCKY.
234 U. S.

587

Opinion of the Court.

In some cases for the convenience of shippers who had
received bills of lading from the initial line for goods
routed over the Company's, line, he exchanged bills of
lading over its line, which were not in force until the
freight had been actually received by the Company. Summarizing these facts, Mr. Justice Moody, speaking for
the court, said (p. 533): "The business shown in this case
was in substance nothing more than that of solicitation.
Without undertaking to formulate any general rule defining what transactions will constitute 'doing business'
in the sense that liability to service is incurred, we
think that this is not enough to bring the defendant
within the district so that process can be served
upon it."
In the case now- under consideration there was something. more than mere solicitation. In response to the
orders received, there was a continuous course of shipment of machines into Kentucky. There was authority
to receive payment in money, check or draft, and to take
notes payable at banks in Kentucky.
It is further contended that as enforced by the decision
of the Kentucky court the law, in its relation to interstate
commerce, operates to burden that commerce. It is argued
that a corporation engaged in purely interstate commerce
within a State cannot be required to submit to regulations
such as designating an agent upon whom process may be
served as a condition of doing such business, and that as
such requirement cannot be made the ordinary agents of
the corporation, although doing interstate business within
the State, cannot by its laws be.made amenable to judicial
process within the State. The contention comes to this,
so long as a foreign corporation engages in interstate commerce only it is immune from the service of process under
the laws of the State in which it is carrying on such business. This is indeed, as was said by the Court of Appeals
of Kentucky, a novel proposition, and we are unable to

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.,

234 U. S.

find a decision to support it, nor has one been called to
our attention.

True, it-has been held time and again that a State cannot burden interstate commerce or pass laws which amount
to the regulation of such commerce; but this is a long way
from holding that the ordinary process of the courts may
not reach corporations carrying on business within the
State which is wholly of an interstate commerce character.
Such corporations are within the State, receiving the protection of its laws, and may, and often do, have large
properties located within the State. In Davis v. Cleveland,
C., C. & St. L. Ry., 217 U. S. 157, this court held that cars
engaged in interstate commerce and credits due for interstate transportation are not immune from seizure under
the laws of the State regulating garnishment and attachment because of their connection with interstate commerce, and it was recognized that the States may pass
laws enforcing the rights of citizens which affect interstate
commerce but fall short of regulating such commerce in
the sense in which the Constitution gives sole jurisdiction
to Congress, citing Sherlock v. Alling, 93 U. S. 99, 103;
Johnson v. Chicago & Pacific Elevator Co., 119 U. S. 388;
Kidd v. Pearson, 128 U. S. 1, 23; Pennsylvania.R. R. Co.
v. Hughes, 191 U. S. 477; and The Winnebago, 205 U. S.
354, 362, in which this court sustained a lien under the
laws of Michigan on a vessel designed to be used in both
foreign and domestic trade.
In International Textbook Co. v. Pigg, 217 U. S. 91, it
was held that a law of Kansas which required the filing
by a foreign corporation engaged in interstate commerce
of a statement of its financial condition as a prerequisite
of the right to do such business and which required a
certificate from the Secretary of State showing that such
statements had been filed as a condition precedent to the
right of the corporation to maintain a suit in that State,
was void. But that case did not hold, as we sh6uld be

INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER v. KENTUCKY.
234 U. S.

589

Syllabus.

required to do to sustain the contention of the plaintiff in
error in this case, that the fact that the corporation was
carrying on interstate commerce business through duly
authorized agents made it exempt from suit within the
State by service upon such agents.
We are satisfied that the presence of a corporation
within a State necessary to the service of process is shown
when it appears that the corporation is there carrying on
business in such sense as to manifest its presence within
the State, although the business transacted may be entirely interstate in its character. In other words, this fact
alone does not render the corporation immune from the
ordinary process of the courts of the State.
It follows that the judgment of 'the Court of Appeals of
Kentucky must be
Affirmed.

INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER, COMPANY OF
AMERICA v. COMMONWEALTH OF KENTUCKY.
ERROR TO TRE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
KENTUCKY.

No. 298. Argued April 24, 1914.-Deuided June 22, 1914.

Where the state court has denied a motion to quash the service of
process on a foreign corporation, and has also held that the statute
on which the action is based is not unconstitutional, both the question of validity of the service and that of the constitutionality of the
act are before this court for review.
InternationalHarvester Company v. Kentucky, ante, p. 579, followed to
effect that the plaintiff in error was doing business in the State in
which process was served.
InternationalHarvester Company v. Kentucky, ante, p. 216, followed to
the effect that the provision of the anti-trust statute of Kentucky

