OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

234 U. S.

a suit the action of the land officers is given appropriate
effect by treating it as presumptively right and as requiring the Government to carry the burden of proving
the fraud by that class of evidence which commands
respect and that amount of it which produces conviction.
Diamond Coal & Coke Co. v. United States, 233 U. S. 236,
239.
Decree affirmed.
NEW ORLEANS & NORTHEASTERN RAILROAD
CO. v. NATIONAL RICE MILLING CO.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.
No. 615.

Argued February 27, 1914.-Decided May 25, 1914.

Where the judgment of a state court rests upon an independent ground
not only adequate to sustain it but in entire harmony with an asserted
Federal right, there is no denial of that right in the sense contemplated by ยง 237 of the Judicial Code, and the writ of error will be
dismissed.
Where the initial carrier sets up the Carmack Amendment and also
denies negligence, but the state court finds from conflicting evidence
that the loss was occasioned by the negligence of the connecting carrier, the judgment rests on that finding as an independent ground,
and this court has not jurisdiction.
.A party is entitled to the benefit of all the testimony in the case from,
whatever source it comes; and, although having the burden of proof,
need not prove any fact otherwise established.*
Writ of error to review 132 Louisiana, 615, dismissed.

THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court
to review the judgment of a state court within ยง237,
Judicial Code, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. J. Blanc Monroe, with whom Mr. John K. Graves
and Mr. Monte M. Lemann were on the brief, for plaintiff
in error:

NEW ORLEANS & N. E. R. R. CO. v. NAT. RICE CO.
234 U. S..

81

Opinion of the Court.

The sole issue in the case is not merely an issue of fact;
nor is the Federal question frivolous.
The judgment of the lower. court does not rest upon a
question of general law, broad enough to sustain it, so that
the decision of the Federal question is unnecessary.
In support of these contentions, see Acme Harvester Co.
v. Beekman Lumber Co., 222 U. S. 300; Adams Exp. Co. v.
Croninger,226 U. S. 491; Bachiel v. Wilson, 204 U. S. 36;
Baltimore & Ohio R. Co. v. Maryland, 20 Wall. 643; Creswill v. Grand Lodge, 225 U. S. 246; Dower v. Richards, 151
U. S. 658; Elam v. St. Louis &c. R. R. Co., 93 S. W. Rep.
851; Henderson Bridge Co. .v. Henderson, 173 U. S. 592;
International R. R. Co. v. Gergman, 64 S. W. Rep. 999;
Kansas City So. Ry. Co. v. Albers Com. Co., 223 U. S. 573;
Kaukauna Water Power Co. v. Green Bay Canal Co., 142
U. S. 254; Leigh. v. Green, 193 U. S. 79; Mackay v. Dillon,
4 How. 421; Mallett v. North Carolina,181 U. S. 589; Memphis R. R. Co. v. Reeves, 10 Wall. 176; Penna. R. R. Co.
v. Hughes, 191 U. S. 477; Schlemmer v. Buffalo &c. Ry.
Co., 205 U. S. 1; Stanley v. Schwalby, 162 U. S. 255; Terre
Haute v. Indianapolis&c. Ry. Co., 194 U. S. 579.
*Mr.W. Catesby Jones, with whom Mr. Gustave Lemle
and Mr. Arthur A. Moreno were on the brief, for defendant
in error.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of
the court.
This was an action to recover the value of two cars of
rice destroyed by fire in August, 1908, while being transported over connecting railroads from New Orleans, Louisiana, to Charleston, South Carolina. The rice was shipped
upon through bills of lading issued by the initial carrier
and was destroyed while in the second carrier's custody at
Old Hamburg, South Carolina. The two cars, with others
VOL. ccxxxiv--6

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

containing quicklime, were side-tracked in the yard at
that place awaiting further movement towards their
destination. The yard adjoined the Savannah River,
which was then almost out of its banks and steadily rising as a result of extraordinary rains and cloudbursts extending up the river and its tributaries one hundred miles.
The waters continued to rise, spread over the yard to a
considerable depth, and ultimately reached the quicklime,
thereby causing the cars to burn and destroying the rice.
The cars had been in the yard about sixteen hours when
the fire started. The action was against both carriers,
and it was alleged in the petition, which based the right of
recovery upon the Carmack Amendment to the Interstate Commerce Act (June 29, 1906, 34 Stat. 584, 595,
c. 3591, ยง 7), that the loss of the rice was caused by the
negligence of the second carrier, and that the two carriers
were jointly liable. Issue was joined, and, after a trial,
the district court of the parish rendered a judgment
against the carriers jointly and in solido, which the Supreme Court of the State at first reversed and then, after
a rehearing, affirmed. 132 Louisiana, 615; 61 So. Rep. 708.
The carriers sued out this writ of error, basing their right
so to do upon a claim that by the judgment of affirmance
they were denied a right or immunity asserted under a
law of the United States.
A motion to dismiss was presented along with the merits,
and we think it is well taken.
The bills of lading contained these stipulations:
"This company or other carriers over whose line the
property may pass, shall not be held responsible for loss or
damage [unless through proved carelessness or negligence
. from heat, cold, fire,
of their employ6s] resulting .
flood, storms, mobs or other causes not subject to the carrier's control.
"Neither this company nor any of its connecting carriers shall be liable for any damage to, or destruction of

NEW ORLEANS & N. E. R. R. CO. v. NAT. RICE CO. 83
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

said property by fire, unlEss such damage or destruction
shall result directly and exclusively from their negligence
or that of their employ~s, and unless such negligence shall
be affirmatively established by the owner of said property."
In the Supreme Court of the State the- carriers contended that, under the combined operation of the Carmack Amendment as'interpreted in Adams Express Co. v.
Croninger, 226 U. S. 491, the stipulations in the bills of
lading, and the common-law rule applied in Railroad Co.
v. Reeves, 10 Wall. 176, and other cases,' they were entitled to exoneration upon showing that the rice was
destroyed by the extraordinary flood, unless it also was
shown that the second carrier contributed to the loss by
negligently failing to take reasonable precautions to avoid
it when the rising waters gave warning of the danger; and
it was particularly urged as a part of this contention that
the burden was upon the plaintiff to show such negligence,
and not upon the carriers to show the absence of it. But
the court, although disapproving the latter phase of the
contention and thinking the carriers were charged by the
law of Louisiana with the burden of showing that there
was no negligence, did not rest its judgment upon that
ground. On the contrary, it examined the evidence, which
comprehensively covered the subject, to ascertain whether,
upon the hypothesis that the contention of the carriers
was sound, they were liable, and from that examination
it found as matter of fact that the second carrier had
negligently permitted the cars of rice to remain within
the influence of the rising flood and in immediate proximity to the quicklime when ordinary prudence required
that they be moved to a place of safety; and that this was
1Clark v. Barnwell, 12 How. 272, 280, 281, 283; TransportationCo.
v. Downer, 11 Wall. 129, 133; Cau v. Texas & Pacific Railway Co., 194
U. S.427, 432.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

made an independent ground of the judgment is shown
by the court's extended discussion of the evidence and
by the following excerpts from its opinion:
"A close reading of the evidence compels the conclusion
that there was not sufficient forethought on the part of the
officers in charge of the railroad yards. We have seen
that the river was rising rapidly on the morning of the
26th of August. Some of the witnesses testified that by
7 o'clock it had covered the switch tracks, and yet nothing
was done to protect property. Leisurely enough, the employ~s went about their business and gave very little concern to the rising waters. Those who did attempt to save
property (if what they did can be considered in that light)
displayed very little activity, beginning at 8 o'clock, taking out a few cars and leaving others in the Old Hamburg
yards. That is all they did. These yards were submerged
by water to a height above the floor of the cars. The question arises: Was it possible, before the waters reached their
greatest height, to move the cars to a safer place than
where they were hauled to on the morning of the 26th of
August; that is, to' the Old Hamburg yards? We have
noted, before 8 o'clock or 8.30 o'clock a. m., not the least
attempt was made to move the cars out of the yard where
they had been placed. Mr. Benson, inspector of the
Southern Railway Company, testified that on the morning of the 26th of August, he reported at the Hamburg
yard at 7 o'clock to go to work, and at that time the water
had just reached the rail in front of the block office. There
were a crew and an engine in the. yard. Why were they
not put at work at that time to save the freight?
"Another witness, the night operator, renders
it still
more evident that it was possible to move the train in the
morning, for he says that when he went to work the yard
was entirely free from water on the 26th of August in the
morning. An attempt was made to rescue the cars between 8 and half past 8 o'clock a. m. It failed. They

NEW ORLEANS & N. E. R. R. CO. v. NAT. RICE CO. 85
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

went too late to rescue these cars. There had been ample
time to save them. (132 Louisiana, p. 643.)
"These floods were frequent,- and yet defendant remained indifferent, and even sent its cars to the lowest
places on the yard, where they were permitted to remain
without making a serious and timely attempt to take them
away.
"From all this evidence we are led to the inference,
which we think is positive, that there was negligence. A
little timely activity would have brought about a different
result, and would have saved plaintiff's property, or would
have placed defendant in a position to successfully defend
itself.
"Unquestionably the river was rising rapidly on the
morning of the 26th at 7 o'clock; in 35 minutes it covered
the switch tracks. It does not seem that anything was
done to prevent the destruction of the cars. Leisurely
enough, the employ~s vent about their respective occupations, and now, when they give an account of themselves, it does seem as if they wish to lay all the trouble
on the rising waters, although they remained indifferent
when they should have exerted themselves (p. 645).
"Admitting for a moment all that is claimed under the
Carmack Amendment, under any of the laws of this country, indifferent railroad people, who receive freight to be
transported some distance, and who, just before the waters of a storm have flowed down, stop the cars on the way,
and run them to the lowest part of their yards, and place
them next to cars loaded w ith quicklime, easily ignited by
water, and leave them at that place while other cars are
taken out, and who make no attempt to haul them out,
although the waters are rising slowly enough for such
work after warning given, are not protected from the
charge of negligence under the law" (p. 649).

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
234 U. S.

Syllabus.

True, the testimony upon which the court rested its
conclusion that negligence was proved did not come from
the plaintiff's witnesses but from those for the carriers,
and was largely elicited by cross-examination, but that is
quite immaterial. The plaintiff was entitled to the benefit
of all the testimony in the case, from whatever source
it came, and was not required, even though having the
burden of proof, to go through the ceremony of proving
any fact otherwise established.
As it clearly appears that the judgment rested upon a
ground which was not only adequate to sustain it but in
entire harmony with the carrier's asserted Federal right,
it cannot be said that there was a denial of that right in
the sense contemplated by ยง 237 of the Judicial Code.
Whether the right was well founded we therefore need not
consider.
Writ of error dismissed.

WABASH RAILROAD COMPANY v. HAYES.
ERROR

TO THE

APPELLATE

COURT

OF

ILLINOIS,

FIRST

DISTRICT.
No. 843.

Motion to dismiss submitted April 27, 1914.-Decided May 25,
1914.

Plaintiff, an injured employ6 of an interstate common carrier by rail,
sued for personal injury, alleging that he was employed in interstate
commerce, and stating a good cause of action under the Federal
Employers' Liability Act, if so employed, and, if not, under the
state law; the defendant asked for an instruction that the proof did
not show that the injury occurred in interstate commerce, which
the court gave, and then, over defendant's objection, treated the
allegation to that effect as eliminated from the declaration and submitted the case to the jury as one under the state law, and plaintiff

