OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

CHARLESTON AND WESTERN CAROLINA RAILWAY COMPANY v. THOMPSON.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
GEORGIA.
No. 751.

Argued April 15, 16, 1914.-Decided June 22, 1914.

Under the free pass provision of the Hepburn Act of June 29, 1906,
a free pass issued by a railroad company between interstate points
to a member of the family of an employ6 is gratuitous and not in
consideration of services of the employ6.
As a pass issued to a member of the family of an employ6 of a railroad
company is free under the provision of the Hepburn Act permitting
it to be issued, the stipulations contained in it and on which it is
accepted, including one exempting the company from liability in case

of injury, are valid.
Quwre whether under ยง 6 of the Act to Regulate Commerce, an interstate carrier can issue a pass in consideration of services.
13 Ga. App. 528, 541, reversed.

THE facts, which involve- the liability of a railroad company to a member of the family of an employ6 traveling
on a free pass issued by the company under the free pass
provision of the Hepburn Act, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. F. Barron Grier and Mr. W. K. Miller, with whom
Mr. T. P. Cothranwas on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. William H. Fleming for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE

HOLMES delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff, Lizzie Thompson, sued the Railroad Company, the plaintiff in, error, to recover for personal injuries
inflicted upon her while she was a passenger upon a train
that was carrying her from South Carolina to Georgia.
The railroad pleaded that she was traveling on a free

CHARLESTON & WEST. CAR. RY. v. THOMPSON.
234 U. S.

577

Opinion of the Court.

pass that exempted the company from liability, the same
having been issued to her gratuitously under the Hepburn
Act of June 29, 1906, c. 3591, 34 Stat. 584, ยง 1, as wife of
an employ6. This plea was struck out subject to the
defendant's exception. The defendant also asked for an
instruction that if the plaintiff was traveling on a free
pass. providing that the railroad should not be liable for
negligent injury to her person she could not recover.
This was refused and was made a ground for a motion for
a new trial, referring to the act of Congress. The motion
was overruled seemingly on the notion that by the state
law the defendant was liable within the conditions of the
free pass. The Court of Appeals held such a stipulation
binding in a- free pass, but held that the Hepburn Act
created an exception and that a so-called free pass under
that act issued'to a member of an employ6's family really
was not a free pass-but was issued upon consideration of
the services of the employ. After this writ of error was
taken it modified its statement so as to say that the jury
might infer that the pass was issued for value. But no
such issue was before the jury, as the defence had been
excluded altogether, and apart from other objections we
are of opinion that the change does not help the decision.
The railroad company assigns the construction of the
Court of Appeals and the two rulings below as error.
There is a motion to dismiss but we are of opinion that a
question is presented under the act.
The main question is whether when the statute permits
the issue of a 'free pass' to its employ6s and their families
it means what it says. The railroad was under no obligation to issue the pass. It may be doubted whether it
could have entered into one, for then the services would
be the consideration for the duty and the pass and by
ยง 6 it was forbidden to charge 'a greater or less or different
compensation' for transportation of passengers from that
in its published rates. The antithesis in the statute is
VOL. ccxxxiv-37

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

between the reasonable charges to be shown in its schedules
and the free passes which it may issue only to those specified in the act. To most of those enumerated the free
pass obviously would be gratuitous in the strictest sense,
and when all that may receive them are grouped in a
single exception we think it plain that the statute contemplates the pass as gratuitous in the same sense to all.
It follows, or rather is saying the same thing in other
words, that even on the improbable speculation that the
possibility of getting an occasional free pass entered into
the motives of the employ6 in working for the road, the
law did not contemplate his work as a conventional inducement for the pass but on the contrary contemplated
the pass as being what it called itself, free.
As the pass was free under the statute, there is no question of the validity of its stipulations. This was conceded by the Court of Appeals, as we have stated, and is
established by the decisions of this court. Northern Pacific
Ry. Co. v. Adams, 192 U. S. 440. Boering v. Chesapeake
Beach Ry. Co., 193 U. S. 442.
Judgment reversed.
By agreement of parties the judgment in No. 752 was
to follow the foregoing. Therefore in No; 752 also the
judgment is reversed.

