INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER v. KENTUCKY.
234 U. S.

589

Syllabus.

required to do to sustain the contention of the plaintiff in
error in this case, that the fact that the corporation was
carrying on interstate commerce business through duly
authorized agents made it exempt from suit within the
State by service upon such agents.
We are satisfied that the presence of a corporation
within a State necessary to the service of process is shown
when it appears that the corporation is there carrying on
business in such sense as to manifest its presence within
the State, although the business transacted may be entirely interstate in its character. In other words, this fact
alone does not render the corporation immune from the
ordinary process of the courts of the State.
It follows that the judgment of 'the Court of Appeals of
Kentucky must be
Affirmed.

INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER, COMPANY OF
AMERICA v. COMMONWEALTH OF KENTUCKY.
ERROR TO TRE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
KENTUCKY.

No. 298. Argued April 24, 1914.-Deuided June 22, 1914.

Where the state court has denied a motion to quash the service of
process on a foreign corporation, and has also held that the statute
on which the action is based is not unconstitutional, both the question of validity of the service and that of the constitutionality of the
act are before this court for review.
InternationalHarvester Company v. Kentucky, ante, p. 579, followed to
effect that the plaintiff in error was doing business in the State in
which process was served.
InternationalHarvester Company v. Kentucky, ante, p. 216, followed to
the effect that the provision of the anti-trust statute of Kentucky

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

under which this suit was brought is unconstitutional under the duc
process provision of the Fourteenth Amendment.
149 Kentucky, 41, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the sufficiency of service of
process upon a foreign corporation doing business in the
State of Kentucky and also the constitutionality of the
anti-trust act of Kentucky, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Alexander Pope Humphrey and Mr. Edgar A. Bancroft, with whom Mr. Victor A. Remy was on the brief,
for plaintiff in error in. this case and in No. 297.1
Mr. Charles Carroll, with whom Mr. James Garnett,
Attorney General of the State of Kentucky, Mr. Frank E.
Daugherty, Mr. J. R. Mallory, Mr. J. C. Dedman, Mr. C.
R. Hill and Mr. C. D. Florence, were on the brief, for defendant in error in this case and in No. 297.1
MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
A penal action was instituted by the defendant in error
against the plaintiff in error in the Boyle Circuit Court
of Kentucky under the anti-trust laws of that State.
Summons having been served upon an alleged agent of
the plaintiff in error, it filed a motion to quash the return
for the reason, as alleged, that the person upon whom
service had been made was not the authorized agent of the
plaintiff 'in error and that it was not doing business in
Kentucky. The facts in this case which are identical
with those set out in the previous case, InternationalHarvester Company of America v. The Commonwealth of Kentucky, just decided, ante, p. 579, show that the plaintiff in
error had prior to the commencement of this action revoked the authority of an agent designated by it in com1 For abstracts of arguments see ante, p. 579.

INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER v. KENTUCKY.
234 U. S.

591

Opinion of the Court.

pliance with the laws of Kentucky and had removed its
office from the State, but that it had continued through
its agents, the party served in this case being one of them,
to solicit orders to be accepted outside of the State for the
sale of machines which were to be delivered in Kentucky,
and that its agents were authorized to receive money,
checks and drafts in payment therefor, or take the notes
of purchtsers payable at any bank in Kentucky.
There are two questions in this case. The Court of
Appeals, deciding that this case was governed by the
previous case from Breckenridge County (147 Kentucky,
655), held that the service was good and that the antitrust act was not unconstitutional and violative of the
Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution. 149 Kentucky, 4.
Since the Federal question
involving the validity of the anti-trust act was considerod
and decided adversely in the Court of Appeals, it, as well
as the question of due service, is properly before us.
Miedreich v. Lauenstein, 232 U. S. 236, 243, and cases
there cited.
As we have just dealt with the sufficiency of service in
the previous case, involving the same question, it may be
disposed of here by merely referring to that decision.
And as the constitutional validity of the anti-trust act
was specifically determined in cases Nos. 276, 291 and
292, entitled InternationalHarvester Company of America
v. The Commonwealth of Kentucky, decided June 8, 1914,
ante, p. 216, that question is also concluded.
We therefore reach the conclusion that the plaintiff in
error was doing business in Kentucky and that the service
was sufficient, but that the law under which the action
was brought is unconstitutional and that the judgment
of the Court of Appeals must be reversed, and accordingly
remand the case to that court for further proceedings not
inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.

