LAZARUS v. PRENTICE.
234 U. S.

Statement of the Case.

LAZARUS,

MICHEL & LAZARUS v. PRENTICE,
RECEIVER OF MUSICA.

APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 1012.

Motion to dismiss or affirm submitted May 4, 1914.-Decided June 8, 1914.

Under clause 20 of § 2 of the Bankruptcy Act as added by-the amendment of June 25, 1910, the bankruptcy courts have ancillary jurisdiction over persons and property within their respective territorial
limits in aid of a trustee or receiver appointed in any court of bankruptcy.
Property of the bankrupt when seized by an ancillary receiver or
trustee is held by virtue of the terms of the Bankruptcy Act to be
turned over to the court of original jurisdiction and no right can be
acquired in it by-assignment subsequent to the petition which can

defeat this purpose.
Under subd. d of § 60 of the Bawhkruptcy Act, attorney's fees for services in contemplation of bankruptcy are specifically provided for
and are subject to revision in the court of original jurisdiction and
not elsewhere.

In re Wood and Henderson, 210 U. S. 246.

The seizure of property of the bankrupt by an ancillary receiver is a
summary proceeding and not a plenary suit and the decision of the
bankruptcy court in the juri,;diction of seizure that an intervenor
claiming by virtue of. an assignment of the bankrupts made after
the petition and in payment of attorney's fees must assert the claims
in the court of original jurisdiction is an administrative order, and
the order of the Circuit Court of Appeals affirming the same is not
reviewable in this court.
A motion to dismiss an appeal from the Circuit Court of Appeals will
not be denied as premature because the record has not been printed
if the record of proceedings ia the District Court is here and this
court is sufficiently advised as to the situation of the case to dispose
of it without doing injustice to. the parties. National Bank v. Insurance Co., 100 U. S. 43.

Appeal from 211 Fed. Rep. 326, dismissed.

THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court
of appeals from the Circuit Court of Appeals in cer-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Appellants.

234 U. S.

tain classes of bankruptcy matters, are stated in the
opinion.
Mr. H. Generes Dufour and Mr. Edwin T. Rice for
appellees in support of the motion.
Mr. Henry L. Lazarus, Mr. David Sessler, Mr. Girault
Farrar,Mr. Herman Michel, and Mr. Eldon S. Lazarus
for appellants,. in opposition to the motion:
This court has jurisdiction of the cause of the appellants. See in support of this proposition: Houghton
v. Burden, 228 U. S. 161; Greey v. Dockendorff, 231
U. S. 513; Knapp v. Milwaukee Trust Co., 216 U. S. 545;
Hewitt v. Berlin Machine Works, 194 U. S. 296; Bankruptcy Act, § 24a; acts of Congress, March 3, 1891,
26 Stat. 828, c. 517, § 6; Judicial Code, 1912, §§ 128,
241.
No printed record having been submitted to appellants
or to the court, the motion to dismiss or affirm should
be denied or be postponed until the regular hearing of
this cause. Power v. Baker, 112 U. S. 710; Crane
Iron Co. v. Hoagland, 108 U. S. 5; National Bank v. Ins.
Co., 100 U. S. 43; Waterville v. Van Slyke, 115 U. S.
290.
A motion to affirm coupled with a motion to dismiss
will not be entertained unless there is color of ground in
the motion to dismiss. Chanute City v. Trader, 132 U. S.
213, and cases cited therein.
The question of jurisdiction in this case cannot be determined without opening the record and looking into
the merits of the controversy, and hence the motion to
dismiss should be denied or deferred to the hearing on
the merits. Lynch v. De Bernal, 131 U. S. (Appendix)
XCIV.
The questions raised by this appeal are serious and not
frivolous.

LAZARUS *v.PRENTICE.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a motion to dismiss the appeal of Lazarus,
Michel & Lazarus, interveners in a certain bankruptcy
proceeding in the District Court of the United States for
the Eastern District of Louisiana, where the intervening
petition was dismissed (205 Fed. Rep. 413), which order
was affirmed on appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Fifth Circuit (211 Fed. Rep. 326). The interveners
now attempt to bring the case to this court by appeal on
the ground that the judgment of the Circuit Court of
Appeals was not final in the proceeding.
The facts are not materially in dispute, and, as found
by both the District Court and the Circuit Court of Appeals, appear to be: Antonio Musica and Philip Musica
were partners in trade under the firm name of A. Musica &
Son, importers of hair in the City of New York. They
had become largely indebted and on the nineteenth of
March, 1913, a petition in involuntary bankruptcy was
filed in the District Court of the United States for the
Southern District of New York against the firm and the
individual members thereof, and a receiver was appointed
-of the bankrupt estate, the partnership and its members
being subsequently adjudicated bankrupts. On the same
day the petition was filed the bankrupts and Arthur
Musica were arrested as fugitives from justice in the
City of New Orleans, and Lucy Grace Musica was held
as a material witness. Upon search there was found
upon their persons, variously distributed among them
and concealed in divers ways, about $75,000 in money, and
'notes, mortgages and insurance policies amounting in
value to some $50,000 more. Without going into detail,
uppn the admissions of the parties it became perfectly
apparent that the property in question belonged to the
bankrupt estate. The District Court for the Eastern
District of Louisiana, upon petition, confirmed the receiver

OCTOBER TERMN,

1913.

Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

as temporary receiver of that court and directed that all
the property be turned over to him to be transmitted to
the trustee or trustees in bankruptcy of A. Musica & Son
elected and qualified in the District Court for the Southern
District of New York, to be disposed of under and subject to the orders of that court.
While the Musicas took the case to the Circuit Court of
Appeals, no appeal has been sued out by them to this
court, and the only questions here concern the intervention of Lazarus, Michel & Lazarus, who, on April 28,
1913, filed an intervening petition in. the District Court
for the Eastern District of Louisiana, claiming $15,000
as attorney fees for services rendered the Musicas in the
proceedings against them in the courts of Louisiana to
protect their property rights and possession and for services to be rendered in representing them in proceedings
in New York, if their services were there required. The
decree of the District Court which was affirmed in the
Circuit Court of Appeals, dismissed the petition in intervention of Lazarus, Michel & Lazarus, reserving their
right to assert whatever claim they may have in the
bankruptcy court of original and primary jurisdiction.
The filing of the petition and adjudication in the bankruptcy court in New York brought the property of the
bankrupts wherever situated into custodia legis, and it
was thus held from the date of the filing of the petition,
so that subsequent liens could not be given or obtained
thereon, nor proceedings had in other courts to reach the
property, the court of original jurisdiction having acquired the full right to administer the estate under
the bankruptcy law. Mueller v. Nugent, 184 U. S. 1;
Acme Harvester Co. v. Beekman Lumber Co., 222 U. S.
300. Under clause 3 of § 2 of the Bankruptcy Act of
July 1, 1898, c. 541, 30 Stat. 544, the receiver in the
original case would have had the right, acting under
authority of the court, to take possession in a summary

LAZARUS v. PRENTICE.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

proceeding of the bankrupts' property, found as was this,
in possession of those admittedly holding it for the bankrupts, and to hold the property until the qualification of
the trustee or until the bankruptcy petition should be
dismissed, if that should happen. Bryan v. Bernheimer,
181 U. S. 188; Mueller v. Nugent, supra. Prior to the
amendment of June 25, 1910, c. 412, 36 Stat. 838, this
court had held that in cases where the bankruptcy court
of original jurisdiction could itself make a summary order
for the delivery of property to the trustee or receiver the
court of ancillary jurisdiction could do so (Babbitt v.
Dutcher, 216 U. S. 102), and by clause 20, added to § 2
by the amendment of June 25, 1910, the bankruptcy
courts were specifically given ancillary jurisdiction over
persons or property within their respective territorial
limits in aid of a trustee, or receiver appointed in any
court of bankruptcy. Under this amendment there can
be no question that the District Court in Louisiana had
authority to appoint a receiver and to take summary proceedings for the restoration of the bankrupts' estate which
was in the custody of people having no right to it, in order
that the same might be turned over to the bankruptcy
court having jurisdiction for administration. Under the
circumstances here shown, there can be no question that
this authority was properly exercised in this case.
The property when seized was by virtue of the terms
of the Bankruptcy Act held for and to be turned over to
the court of original jurisdiction, and no right could be
acquired in it by assignment subsequent to the filing of
the petition which would defeat this purpose. Such
assignment was a mere nullity, properly disregarded by
the bankruptcy court, and notwithstanding which it could
direct the delivery of the bankrupts' property to the
receiver by summary order. Babbitt v. Dutcher, supra.
There is no contention that Lazarus, Michel & Lazarus
had any lien upon this property at the time of the appre-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

hension of the parties and the seizure of the property.
Whatever rights they had are asserted to arise by virtue
of the assignments made April 1, 1913, and after the filing
of the original petition in bankruptcy.
For an attorney fee for services to be rendered in contemplation of bankruptcy the act makes specific provision
in subdivision d of § 60, and the amount thus attempted
to be used in contemplation of bankruptcy proceedings
is subject to revision in the court of original jurisdiction
and not elsewhere. See In re Wood and Henderson, 210
U. S. 246.
The contention of the appellants and the proposition
upon which they rely to sustain jurisdiction in this court
is that by their intervention in the proceeding in the
United States District Court in Louisiana they initiated
a controversy in the bankruptcy proceeding, which is
appealable to this court froni the Circuit Court of Appeals;
as are ordinary cases in equity where original jurisdiction
does not rest on diverse citizenship entirely (Judicial
Code, § 128). To maintain that proposition Hewit v..
Berlin Machine Works, 194 U. S.296; Coder v. Arts, 213
U. S.223; Knapp v. Milwaukee Trust Co., 216 U. S.545;
Houghton, Receiver, v. Burden, 228 U. S. 161, and cases of
that character are cited. In those cases it was held that
controversies arising in bankruptcy, in the nature of
plenary suits, concerning property claimed by others
than the bankrupt do not come under the special provisions of the Bankruptcy Act governing petitions for review
and appeals, but take the course of ordinary cases in
equity and are not final in the Circuit Court of Appeals
where other cases of a similar character would not be.
The Bankruptcy Act provides for review under § 24b
of administrative orders and decrees in the course of
bankruptcy proceedings which are not made specially
appealable under § 25a., And controversies arising in
bankruptcy proceedings, of the character of which we

LAZARUS v. PRENTICE.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

have spoken, under § 24a, are appealable like other equity
cases. See Matter ofLoving, 224 U. S. 183. In this case
merely ancillary jurisdiction in a summary proceeding
in bankruptcy was invoked in the seizure of this property
in the hands of those holding it for the bankrupts, and
its character could, not be changed or enlarged by the
attempted intervention of Lazarus, Michel & Lazarus
under alleged assignments of the property made after
the filing of the petition in the original bankruptcy proceeding. We think the District Court was right in holding, and the Circuit Court of Appeals right in affirming
its decision, that wAatever claim Lazarus, Michel &
Lazarus had under the circumstances here shown must
be asserted in the court of original jurisdiction. The
attempted intervention in the ancillary proceeding did
not give jutisdiction over a controversy in bankruptcy appealable under the Judicial Code to the Court of Appeals
and thence to this court. This conclusion must result in
the dismissal of the attempted appeal here.
It is contended, however, that this motion is premature, because the record in this case has not been printed.
It is true that ordinarily such motions made before the
record is printed must be accompanied by a statement of
facts upon which they rest or ,by printed copies of so
much of the record as will enable the court to understand
the case. Under the present practice it is permiss'ble to
file the record printed in the court below, and we have a
printed transcript of the proceedings in the District
Court. In this printed record matters whicl, the briefs
do not dispute are shown, and we think we are sufficiently
advised as to the situation of the case to dispose of it
now without doing injustice to the parties. National
Bank v. Insurance Co., 100 U. S. 43.
We reach the conclusion that this appeal
Must be dismissed.

