INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER CO. v. MISSOURI. 199
234 U. S.

Syllabus.

shall not be affected or encumbered by any deed, debt or
obligation of any character contracted prior to the time at
which" the lands may be alienated, "nor shall said lands
be sold except" as in the act provided. The prohibition
then is that the lands shall. not be "affected . . . by
any obligation of any character," and, as we have seen,
an obligation may arise from a tort as well as from a contract, from a breach of duty or the violation of a right.
Exchange Bank v. Ford, 7 Colorado, 314, 316. If this were
not so, a prearranged tort and a judgment confessed would
become an easy means of circumventing the policy of the
law.
Judgment reversed and.case remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE DAY dissents.

INTERNATIONAL

HARVESTER

COMPANY

OF

AMERICA v. STATE OF MISSOURI.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.

No. 166. Argued April 29, 1914.-Decided June 8, 1914.
Although the state appellate court may not have referred to the constitutional questions in its opinion, this court cannot regard such
silence as a condemnation of the time at, -or manner in which, those
questions were raised; and, if the record shows that they were raised
in that court, this court has jurisdi -tion.
The Fourteenth Amendment does not preclude the State from adopting
a policy against all combinations of competing corporations and
enforcing it even against combinations which have been induced by
good intentions and from which benefit and not injury may have
resulted.
The power of classificaion which may be exerted in the legislation of

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

234 U. S.

States has a very broad range; and a classification is not invalid
under the equal protection provision of the Fourteenth Amendment
because of simple inequality.
A state statute prohibiting combination is not unconstitutional as
denying equal protection of the law because it embraces vendors of
commodities and not vendors of labor and services. There is a reasonable basis for such a classification; and so held as to the Missouri
anti-trust Laws of 1899 and 1909.
Questions of policy are for the legislature and not for this court to
determine.
As classification must be accommodated to the problems of legislation;
it may depend upon degree of evil so long as it is not unreasonable
or arbitrary.
237 Missouri, 369, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality of the
Missouri Anti-trust Acts of 1899 and 1909, are stated
in the opinion.

Mr. Edgar A. Bancroft and Mr. W. M. Williams, with
whom Mr. Selden P. Spencer and Mr. Victor A- Remy were
on the brief, for plaintiff in error:

A Federal question was raised and was decided by the
Missouri Supreme Court adversely to plaintiff in error.
The Missouri anti-trust statute is unconstitutional
because it exempts from its operation and penalties all
"combinations of persons engaged in labor pursuits" and
is limited "to persons and corporations dealing in commod-

ities."
Combinations of laborers, skilled or unskilled, no less
than combinations of manufacturers and merchants, may
restrain trade.
Anti-trust laws aiming to protect the freedom of trade
and resting on the police power must include all persons
who are capable of restraining trade.
Although certain state decisions support the exemption
of labor and services, they are based on inconsistent and
fallacious grounds.

INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER CO. v.
234 U. S.

IISSOURI,

201

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Anti-trust laws must be co-extensive with the evils to
be prevented and remedied.
The Missouri anti-trust statute is unconstitutional, because, while it prohibits arrangements and comtinations
designed or tending to lessen competition in the manufacture or sale of commodities, or to increase market prices,
it does not prohibit arrangements or combinations between
purchasers of commodities designed or tending to lessen
competition or to decrease market prices.
A combination of buyers may restrain trade to the same
extent and with the same or greater injury as a combination of sellers.
The Missouri anti-trust statute, as construed and applied by the state Supreme Court in its judgment herein,
is unconstitutional because it unreasonably and arbitrarily
violates and restrains plaintiff in error's right and freedom
of contract beyond the police power of the State, thus
depriving it of property without due process of law.
In support of these contentions, see Adams v. Brenan,
177 Illinois, 194; Bailey v. Master Plumbers, 103 Tennessee, 99; Chaplin v. Brown, 83 Iowa, 156, 157; Cleland v.
Anderson, 66 Nebraska,. 252, 260; Columbia Water Power
Co. v. Columbia St. Ry. Co., 172 U. S. 475, 487; Commonwealth v. Int. Harvester Co., 131 Kentucky, 551; Connolly
v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540, 556; Cote v.
Murphy, 159 Pa. St. 420; Dier's Case (Year Book, 2 Hen.
V, fol. 5, pl. 26); Downing v. Lewis, 56 Nebraska, 386, 389;
Hunt v. Riverside Coiperative Club, 140 Michigan, 538;
Ipswich Tailors' Case (1]. Coke's Rep. 53a); Loewe v.
Lawlor, 208 U. S. 274, 301; Meyer v. Richmond, 172 U. S.
82, 91; M., K. & T. R. Co. v. Elliott, 184 U. S. 530; More
v. Bennett, 140 Illinois, 69, 77; Niagara Fire Ins. Co. v.
Cornell, 110 Fed. Rep. 816, 825; Owen County Society v.
Brumback, 128 Kentucky, 137; People v. Butler St. Foundry Co., 201 Illinois, 236, 257; Rohlf v. Kasemeier, 140
Iowa, 182, 190; Slaughter House Cases, 16 Wall. 127;

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

Smiley v. Kansas, 196 U. S. 447, 454; St. L., I. M. & S. Ry.
Co. v. McWhirter, 229 U. S. 265, 276; State v. Associated
Press, 159 Missouri, 410, 456; State v. Croyle, 7 Okla. Cr.
50; State v. Duluth Board of Trade, 107 Minnesota, 506,
546; State v. Int. Harvester Co., 237 Missouri, 369; State v.
Standard Oil Co., 218 Missouri, 1, 370; Swift & Co. v.
United States, 196 U. S. 375, 395; United States v. Workingmen's Council, 54 Fed. Rep. 994.
Mr. John T. Barker, Attorney General of the State of
Missouri, with whom Mr. W. T. Rutherford, Mr. W. M.
Fitch, Mr. Thomas J. Higgs and Mr. Paul P. Prosser
were on the brief, for defendant in error:
There is no Federal question in this case and the judgment of the Missouri Supreme Court should be affirmed.
Astor v. Merritt, 111 U. S. 401; Powell v. Supervisor, 150
U. S.113; Sayward v. Denny, 158 U. S.941; Lone Wolf v.
Hitchcock, 187 U. S. 299; Lohmeyer v. Cornpany, 214
Missouri, p. 688; Brown v. Railroad,175 Missouri, p. 189;
Ross v. Company, 241 Missouri, 299.
The Missouri anti-trust statutes are constitutional and
have been so held many times. Standard Oil Co. v.
Missouri, 224 U. S.270; Missouri v. StandardOil Co., 218
Missouri, p. 368; Missouri v. Tobacco Co., 177 Missouri,
37; Missouri v. Insurance Co., 251 Missouri, 278; Railroad
v. Mackey, 127 U. S. 209; Barbier v. Connelly, 113 U. S.
31; Railroad Co. v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150; United States v.
Association, 171 U. S.505; Missouri v. Int. Harvester Co.,
237 Missouri, 369.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Information in the nature of quo warrantobrought in the
Supreme Court of the State to exclude plaintiff in error
from the corporate rights, privileges and franchises exer-

INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER CO. v. MISSOURI.
234 U. S.

203

Opinion of the Court.

cised or enjoyed by it under the laws of the State, that they
be forfeited, and all or such portion of its property as the
court may deem proper be confiscated or in lieu thereof a
fine be imposed upon it in "punishment of the perversion,
usurpation, abuse and misuse of franchises."
The ground of the action is the alleged violation of the
statutes of the State passed respectively in 1899 and 1909
and entitled" Pools, Trusts and Conspiracies" and "Pools,
Trusts and Conspiracies and Discriminations."
The facts alleged in the information are these: Plaintiff
in error is a Wisconsin corporation engaged in the manufacture and sale of agricultural implements, binders, mowers,
etc., and was licensed on the fifth of April, 1892, to do
business in Missouri under the name of the Milwaukee
Harvester Company, and on September 18, 1902, became
licensed to do and engaged in such business in the State.
In that year the International Harvester Company of New
Jersey was organized with a capital stock of $120,000,000
for the purpose of effecting a combination of plaintiff in
error and certain other companies to restrain competition
in the manufacture and sale of such agricultural implements in Missouri, and the New Jersey company has
maintained plaintiff in error as its sole selling agent in
Missouri. Before the combination the companies combined were competitors of one another and of other corporations, individuals and partnerships engaged in the
same business in the State and that thereby the people of
the State, and particularly the retail dealers and farmers
of the State, received the benefit of competition in the
purchase and sale of farm implements. The combination
was designed and made with a vieW to lessen, and it
tended to lessen, free competition in such implements, and
thereby the said corporations entered into and became
members of a pool, trust, combination and agreement.
In furtherance thereof and for the purpose of giving
the International Harvester Company of New Jersey a

204

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

monopoly of the business of manufacturing and selling
agricultural implements in the State, and for the purpose
of preventing competition in the sale thereof, plaintiff in
error has compelled the retail dealers in each county of
the State who desire to handle and sel or act as agent for
it to refrain from selling implements manufactured or sold
by competing companies or persons. By reason thereof
competition in such implements has been restrained,
prices controlled, the quantity of such implements has been
fixed and limited, and plaintiff in error has been able to
secure, and for several years enjoy, from 85% to 90% of
the business, all to the great damage and loss of the people
of the State, and by reason of its participation in the pool,
trust and combination and by reason of the acts and
things done by it plaintiff in error has been guilty of an
illegal, wilful and malicious perversion and abuse of its
franchises, privileges and licenses granted to it by the
State.
The answer of plaintiff in error denied that it had become a party to any combination or that in its transactions there was any purpose to restrain or'lessen competition, or that trade had been or was restrained.
The case was referred to a special commissioner to take
the evidence and report his conclusions. He found, as
alleged in the information, that the International Harvester Company of New Jersey was a combination of the
properties and businesses of formerly competing harvester
companies, and plaintiff in error being one of such companies and, thereafter by selling the New Jersey company's
products in Missouri, had violated the Missouri statutes
against pools, trusts and conspiracies.
In exceptions to the report of the special commissioner
plaintiff in error urged that the statute of Missouri
violated the equality clause and due process clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States, "(1) Because said statute arbitrarily discrim-

INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER CO. v. MISSOURI.
234 U. S.

205

Opinion of the Court.

inates between persons making or selling products and
commodities and persons selling labor -and service of all
kinds: In that each section of said statute applies only to
articles of merchandise and not to labor or services and
the like, the prices of which are equally and similarly
determined by competition, and may be equally and
similarly the subject of combination and conspiracy to the
detriment of the public. (2) Because said statute arbitrarily discriminates between the makers and sellers of
products and commodities and the purchasers thereof:
It prohibits manufacturers and sellers from making contracts or arrangements intended or tending to increase
the market price of the articles they make or sell, but does
not prohibit purchasers from combining to fix or reduce
the market price of the commodities or articles to be purchased by them. (3) Because said statute, as construed
by the Commissioner, unreasonably and arbitrarily interferes with plaintiff in error's right to make proper and
reasonable business contracts, and deprives it of property
rights in respect thereto."
These exceptions were urged and argued in the Supreme
Court upon the filing of the commissioner's report. Judgment was entered upon the report, in which it was adjudged that by reason of the violation of the statutes of
the State as charged in the 'information, plaintiff in error
had forfeited the license theretofore granted to it to do
business in the State, and it was adjudged that the license
be forfeited and canceled and the company ousted from
its rights and franchises granted by the State to do business
in the State, and a fine of $50,000 was imposed upon it.
It was, however, provided that upon payment of the fine
on or before the first of January, 1912, and immediately
ceasing all connection with the International Harvester
Company of New Jersey and the corporations and copartnerships with which it had combined, and not continuing and maintaining the unlawful agreement and com-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

bination with them to lessen and destroy competition. in
the sale of the enumerated farm implements and giving
satisfactory evidence thereof to the court, the judgment of
ouster should be suspended. The company was given
until March 1, 1912, "to file its proof of willingness" to
comply with the judginent. It was also adjudged that
upon a subsequent violation of the statute "the suspension
of the writ of ouster shall be removed" by the court "and
absolute ouster be enforced," and to that end the court retained "its full and complete jurisdiction over the cause."
237 Missouri, 369.
A motion is made to dismiss on the ground that plaintiff
in error in its answer simply denied that it had violated
the anti-trust laws of the State, and, it is contended, that
by not alleging in its answer that those laws violated the
Constitution of the United States it waived such defense.
It is further contended that because the Federal right was
not asserted in the answer the Supreme Court of the State
could not have considered and did not consider or decide
it. Decisions of the Supreme Court of Missouri are cited
to sustain the contentions. The decisions declare -the
proposition that constitutional questions must be raised
at the first opportunity or, as it is expressed in one of the
cases (Brown v. Railway Co., 175 Missouri, 185, 188),
"the protection of the Constitution must be timely and
properly invoked in the trial court."
In Milling Company v. Blake, 242 Missouri, 23, 31, it is
said: "The rule of this court is that so grave a question
[constitutional question] must be lodged at the first
opportunity, or it will be deemed to have been waived.
If it can be appropriately and naturally raised in the
pleadings, and thereby be a question lodged in the record
proper, such is the time and place to raise it," and that it is
too late to raise the question after judgment in a motion
for new trial. In Hertzler v. Railway Co., 218 Missouri,
562, 564, it was held: "The motion for a new trial was not

INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER CO. v. MISSOURI.
234 U. S.

207

Opinion of the Court.

the first door open for the question to enter, and in our
later decisions we have ruled that a question of such gravity must be raised as soon as orderly procedure will allow.
This, in order that the trial- court may'be treated fairly
and the question get into the case under correct safeguards and earmarked as of substance and not mere color."
It is manifest, we think, that the court only intended to
express the condition of appellate review to be that in the
trial court constitutional questions should not be reserved
until the case had gone to judgment on other issues, and
then~used to secure a new trial. The principle of the
rulings is satisfied in the case at bar. It is, as we have
seen, an original proceeding in the Supreme Court and
upon the report of the commissioner which brought the
case to the court for decision of the issues and questions
involved in it the Federal questions were made "under
correct safeguards and earmarked as of substance and not
mere color." It is true the court has not referred to them
in its opinion, but we cannot regard its silence as a condemnation of the time or manner at or in which they were
raised. The motion to dismiss is, therefore, denied.
The assignments of error necessarily involve a consideration of the statutes. The relevant provisions are
contained in ยง 10301 of the Revised Statutes of the State
of 1909, and ยง 8966 of the Revised Statutes of 1899.
Section 10301 provides, "that all arrangements, contracts, agreements, combinations or understandings made,
or entered into between any two or more persons, designed or made with a view to lessen, or which tend to
lessen, lawful trade, or full and free competition in the
importation, transportation, manufacture or sale" in the
State "of any product, commodity or article, or thing
bought and sold," and all such arrangements, etc., "which
are designed or made with a view to increase, or which
tend to increase the market price of any product, commodity or article or thing, of any class or kind whatsoever

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

bought and sold," are declared to be against public
policy, unlawful and void, and those offending "shall be
deemed and adjudged guilty of a conspiracy in restraint of
trade, and punished" as provided.
Section 8966 provides that arrangements, etc., such as
described in ยง 10301, having like purpose, and all such
arrangements, etc., "whereby, or under the terms of
which, it is proposed, stipulated, provided, agreed or
understood that any person, association of persons or
corporations doing business in" the State, "shall deal in,
sell or offer for sale" in the State "any particular or
specified article, product or commodity, and shall not
during the continuance or existence of any such arrangement, . . . deal in, sell or offer for sale," in the
State, "any competing article, product or commodity,"
are declared to be against public policy, unlawful and
void; and any person offending "shall be deemed and
adjudged guilty of a conspiracy to defraud, and be subject
to the penalties" provided.
By ยง 10304 of the Revised Statutes of 1909 it is provided that domestic offending corporations shall forfeit
their charters and all or any part of their property as shall
be adjudged by a court of competent jurisdiction, or be
fined in lieu of the forfeiture of charters or of property.
Foreign offending corporations shall forfeit their right
to do business in the State, with forfeiture also of property or, in lieu thereof, the payment of a fine.
In State v. Standard Oil Co., 218 Missouri, 1, 370, 372,
the Supreme Court held that the anti-trust statutes of the
State "are limited in their scope and operations to persons
and corporations dealing in commodities, and do not
include combinations of persons engaged in labor pursuits." And, justifying the statutes against a charge of
illegal discrimination, the court further said that "it must
be borne in mind that thedifferentiation between labor and
property is so great that they do not belong to the same

INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER CO. v. MISSOURI.
234 U. S.

209

Opinion of the Court.

general classification of rights, or things, and have never
been so recognized by the common -law, or by legislative
enactments."
Accepting the construction put upon the statute, but
contesting its legality as thus construed, plaintiff in error
makes three contentions, (1) The statutes as so construed
unreasonably and arbitrarily limit the right of contract;
(2) discriminate between the vendors of commodities
and the vendors of labor and services, and (3) between
vendors and purchasers of commodities.
(1). The specification under this head is that the
Supreme Court found, it is contended, benefit-not injury-to the public had resulted from the alleged combination. Granting that this is. not an overstatement of the
opinion the answer is immediate. It is too late in the day
to assert against statutes which forbid combinations of
competing companies that a particular combination was
induced by good intentions and has had some good effect.
Armour Packing Co. v. United States, 209 U. S. "56, 62;
Standard Sanitary Mfg. Co. v. United States, 226 U. S.
20, 49. The purpose of such statutes is to secure competition and preclude combinations which tend to defeat
it. And such is explicitly the purpose and policy of the
Missouri statutes; and they have been sustained by the
Supreme Court. There is nothing in the Constitution of
the United States which precludes a State from adopting
and enforcing such policy. To so decide would be stepping
backwards. Carroll v. Greenwich Ins. Co., 199 U. S.401;
Central Lumber Co. v. South Dakota, 226 U. S.157.
It is true that the Supreme Court did not find a definite
abuse of its powers by plaintiff in error, but it did find
that there was an offending against the statute, a union of
able competitors and a cessation of their competition, and
the court said, p. 395: "Some of the smaller concerns that
were competitors in the market have ceased their struggle
for existence and retired from the field." This is one
voL. ccxxxiv-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

of the results which the statute was intended to prevent,
the unequal struggle of individual effort against the
power of combination. The preventing of the engrossment of trade is as definitely the object of the law as is
price regulation of commodities, its prohibition being
against combinations "made with a view to lessen, or
which tend to lessen, lawful trade or full and free competition in the importation, transportation, manufacture or
sale of any commodity, or article or thing bought or sold."
See Standard Oil Co. v. United States, 221 U. S. 1; United
States v. American Tobacco Co., Id. 106; United States v.
Patten, 226 U. S. 525.
(2) and (3). These contentions may be considered together, both involving a charge of discrimination-the
one because the law does not embrace vendors of labor,
the other because it does not cover purchasers of commodities as well as vendors of them. Both, therefore,
invoke a consideration of the power of classification which
may be exerted in the legislation of the State. And we
shall presently see that power has very broad range. A
classification is not' invalid because of simple inequality.
We said in Atchison, Topeka & 'Santa Fe R. R. Co. v.
Matthews, 174 U. S. 96, 106, by Mr. Justice Brewer,
"The very idea of classification is that of inequality, so
that it goes without saying that the fact of inequality in
no manner determines the matter of constitutionality."
Therefore, it may be there is restraint of competition in a
combination of laborers and in a combination of purchasers, but that does not demonstrate that legislation
which does not include either combination is illegal.
Whether it would have been better policy to have made
such comprehensive classification it is not our province to
decide. In other words, whether a combination of wage
earners or purchasers of commodities called for repression
by law under the conditions in the State was for the
legislature of the State to determine.

INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER CO. v. MISSOURI.
234 U. S.

211

Opinion of the Court.

In Carroll 'v.Greenwich Ins. Co., supra, a statute of
Iowa was considered which made it unlawful for two or
more fire insurance companies doing business in the State,
or their officers or agents, to make or eiter into combinations or agreements in relation to the rates to be charged
for insurance, and certain other matters. The provision
was held invalid by the Circuit Court of the United States
for the District of Iowa on the' ground of depriving of
liberty of contract secured by the Fourteenth Amendment
and of the equal protection of the laws. This court
reversed the decision, saying, after stating that there was a
general statute of Iowa which prohibited combinations to
fix the price of any article of merchandise or commodity or
to limit the quantity of the same produced or sold in the
State, "Therefore the act in question does little if anything
more than apply and work out the policy of the general
law in a particular case." Again, "If an evil is specially
experienced in a particular branch of. business, the Constitution embodies no prohibition of laws confined to the
evil, or doctrinaire requirement that they should be
couched in all-embracing terms." And, "If the legislature
of the State of Iowa deems it desirable artificially to prevent, so far as it can, the substitution of combination for
competition, this court camot say that fire insurance may
not present so conspicuous an example of what the legislature thinks an evil as to justify special treatment. The
imposition of a more specific liability upon life and health
insurance companies was held valid in Fidelity Mutual
Life Insurance Company v. Mettler, 185 U. S.308." (199
U. S. p. 411.) Other cases were also cited in illustration.
Carroll v. Greenwich Ins. Co., supra, is especially apposite. It contains the elements of the case at bar and a
decision upon them. It will be observed that the statute,
which it was said declared the general policy of Iowa, was
a prohibition against a combination of producers and
sellers. There was the same distinction, therefore, be-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

tween vendors and purchasers of commodities as in the
Missouri statute and the same omission of prohibition of
combinations of vendors of labor and services as in the
Missouri law. The distinction and omission were continued when the policy of the State was extended to
insurance companies. The law was not condemned because it went no farther-because it did not prohibit the
combination of all trades, businesses and persons. We
held that the omission was not for judicial cognizance, and
that a court could not say that fire insurance might not
present so conspicuous an example of what the legislature
might think an evil "as to justify special treatnent."
We might leave the discussion with that and the other
cases. They decide that we are helped little in determining the legality of a legislative classification by making
broad generalizations, and it is for a broad generalization
that plaintiff in error contends-indeed, a generalization
which includes all the activities and occupations of life,
and there is an enumeration of wage earners in emphasis
of the discrimination in which manufacturers and sellers
are singled out froin all others. The contention is deceptive, and yet it is earnestly urged in various ways which
it would extend this opinion too much to detail. "In dealing with'restraints of trade," it is said, "the proper basis
of classification is obviously neither in comimodities nor
services, nor in persons, but in restraints." A law, to be
valid, therefore, is the inflexible deduction, cannot distinguish between "restraints," but must apply to all restraints, whatever their degree or effect or purpose, and
that because the Missouri statute has not this universal
operation it offends against the equality required by the
Fourteenth Amendment. This court has decided many
times that a legislative classification does not have to possess such comprehensive extent. Classification must be
accommodated to the problems of legislation, and we decided in Ozan Lumber Co. v. Union County Bank, 207 U. S.

INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER CO. v. MISSOURI.
234 U. S.

213

Opinion of the Court.

251, that it may depend upon degrees of evil without being
arbitrary or unreasonable. We repeated the ruling in
Heath & Milligan Mfg. Co. v. Worst, 207 U. S. 338, in
Engel v. O'Malley, 219 U. S. 128, in Mutual Loan Co. -v.
Martell, 222 U. S. 225, and again in German Alliance Insurance Company v. Kansas, 233 U. S. 389, 418. In the
latter case a distinction was sustained against a charge of
discrimination between stock fire insurance companies and
farmers' mutual insurance companies insuring farm property. If this power of classification did not exist, to what
straits legislation would be brought. We may illustrate
by the examples furnished by plaintiff in error. In the
enumeration of those who, it is contended, by combination
are able to restrain trade are included, among others,
"persons engaged in domestic service" and "nurses," and
because these are not embraced in the law, plaintiff in
error, it is contended, although a combination of companies uniting the power of $120,000,000 and able thereby
to engross 85% or 90% of the trade in agricultural implements, is nevertheless beyond the competency of the
legislature to prohibit. As great as the contrast is, a
greater one may be made. Under the principle applied a
combina'ion of all the great industrial enterprises (and
why not railroads as well?) could not be condemned unless
the law applied as well to a combination of maidservants
or to infants' nurses, whose humble functions preclude
effective combination. Such contrasts and the considerations they suggest must be pushed aside by government,
and a rigid and universal classification applied, is the contention of plaintiff in error; and to this the contention
must come. Admit exceptions, and you admit the power
of the legislature to select them. But it may be said the
comparison of extremes is forensic, and, it may be, fallacious; that there may be powerful labor combinations
as well as powerful industrial combinations, and weak
ones of both, and that the law to be valid cannot distin-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

guish between strong and weak offenders. This may be
granted (Engel v. O'Malley, supra), but the comparisons
are not without value in estimating the contentions of
plaintiff in error. The foundation of our decision is, of
course, the power of classification which a legislature may
exercise, and the cases we have cited, as well as others
which may be cited, demonstrate that some latitude must
be allowed to the legislative judgment in selecting the
"basis of community." We have said that it must be
palpably arbitrary to authorize a judicial review of it, and
that it cannot be disturbed by the courts "unless they
can see clearly that there is no fair reason for the law that
would not require with equal force its extension to others
whom it leaves untouched." Mo., Kan. & Tex. Ry. Co. v.
May, 194 U. S. 267, 269; Williams v. Arkansas, 217 U. S.
79, 90; Watson v. Maryland, 218 U. S. 173, 179.
The instances of these cases are instructive. In the first
there was a difference made between land owners as to
liability for permitting certain noxious grasses to go to

seed on the lands. In the second, the statute passed on
made a difference between businesses in the solicitation of
patronage on railroad trains and at depots. In the third
a difference based on the evidence of qualification of physicians was declared valid.

In Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Milling Co., 218
U. S. 406, a distinction was made between common carriers in the power to limit liability for negligence. In
Engel v. O'Malley, supra, a distinction between bankers

was sustained; and in Provident Savings Institution v.
Malone, 221 U. S. 660, deposits in savings banks were dis-

tinguished from deposits in other banks in the application
of the statute of limitations.
Other cases might be.cited whose instances illustrate the
same principle and in which this court has refused to accept the higher generalizations urged as necessary to the
fulfilment of the constitutional guaranty of the equal pro-

INTERNATIONAL HARVESTER CO. v. MISSOURI.
234 U. S.

215

Opinion of the Court.

tection of, the law, and in which we, in effect, held that it
is competent for a legislature to determine upon what
differences a distinction may be made for the purpose of
statutory classification between objects otherwise having
resemblances. Such power, of course, cannot be arbitrarily exercised. The distinction made must have reasonable
basis. Magoun v. Illinois Trust &c. Bank, 170 U. S. 283;
Clark v. Kansas City, 176 U. S.'114; Gundling v. Chicago,
177 U. S. 183; Petit v. Minnesota, 177 U. S. 164; Williams
v. Fears, 179 U. S. 270; American Sugar Refining Co. v.
Louisiana, 179 U. S. 89; Griffith v. Connecticut, 218 U. S.
563; Chicago, R. I. & Pac. Ry. Co. v. Arkansas, 219 U. S.
453, 466; Lindsley v, Natural Carbonic Gas Co., 220 U. S.
61, 79; Fifth Avenue Coach Co. v. New York, 221 U. S. 467;
Murphy v. California, 225 U. S. 623; Rosenthal v. New
York, 226 U. S. 260, 269, 270; Mo., Kan. & Tex. Ry. v.
Cade, 233 U. S' 642.
And so in the case at bar. Whether the Missouri statute. should have set its condemnation on restraints generally, prohibiting combined action for any purpose and
to everybody, or confined it as the statute does to manufacturers and vendors of articles and permitting it to purchasers of such articles; prohibiting it to sellers of commodities and permitting it to sellers of services, was a
matter of legislative judgment and we cannot say that the
distinctions made, are palpably arbitrary, which we have
seen is the condition of judicial review. It is to be remembered that the question presented is of the power of the
legislature, not the policy of the exercise of the power.
To be able to find fault, therefore, with such policy is not
to establish the invalidity of the law based upon it.
It is said that the statute as construed by the Supreme
Court of the State comes within our ruling in Connolly v.
Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540, but we do not think
so. If it did we should, of course, apply that ruling here.
Judgment affirmed.

