OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

234 U. S.

Mr. Edward Duffy, with whom Mr. Nicholas P. Bond
and Mr. Ralph Robinson were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. W. H. Price, Jr., and Mr. John E, Semmes, Jr.,
with whom Mr. John E. Semmes, Mr. Jesse N. Bowen and
Mr. Matthew Gault were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE

HUGHES delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a libel filed on behalf of the widow and infant
children of Martin Szczesek to recover damages for injuries
resulting in his death. Szczesek was a stevedore in the
employ of the Atlantic Transport Company, the petitioner,
and was engaged in loading the ship Pretoria. The District
Court allowed a recovery against the petitioner (190 Fed.
Rep. 240) which the Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed.
193 Fed. Rep. 1019.
The questions presented are the same as those which
were considered in Atlantic Transport Company v. Imbrovek, ante, p. 52, decided this day and, for the reasons
stated in the opinion in that case, the decree is affirmed.
Affirmed.

SCHMIDT v. BANK OF COMMERCE.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF NEW
MEXICO.
.No. 281.

Argued March 19, 1914.-Decided May 25, 1914.

This court accepts the rulings of the territorial courts on local questions
of pleading and practice. Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. Friday, 232 U. S. 694.
Where some of the signatures of defendant makers had been obtained
by means of fraudulent representations by the plaintiff holder of the
paper, the whole transaction is vitiated even as to those makers

SCHMIDT v. BANK OF COMMERCE.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

who'were liable on former existing paper of which that in suit was a
renewal.
Where a renewal note constitutes a new promise with distinct legal
.consequences, it cannot be enforced if fraudulently induced, even if
there were no defense to the older note in renewal of which it is
given.
Under the Negotiable Instrument Act of 1907 of New Mexico,
the title of a, person negotiating commercial paper is defective if
any signature thereto has been obtained by fraud, and if any one
person is relieved from liability by proof of fraudulent inducement, all other persons who signed the paper are likewise relieved although they did not participate in and were ignorant of
such fraud.
Where the court, on plaintiffs' motion, has denied the right of defendants to show that the note sued on was void as to them because
of subsequent alteration by addition of- signatures of other comakers, the plaintiff cannot defeat defendants' defense of fraud in
obtaining the later signatures on the ground that the notes were
completed instruments and binding upoji the makers before the
others had signed.
16 New Mex. 414, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the effect of fraudulent inducement to make commercial paper and the rights of comakers -to be relieved o:f liability in such case, are stated
in the opinion.

Mr. Francis E. Wood, with whom Mr. 0. N. Marron
was on the brief, for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Harry M. Dougherty, with whom Mr. James G.
Fitch was on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE HUGHES. delivered the opinion of the court.

This suit was brought by the Bank of Commerce in the
District Court for SocoITo County in the Territory of New

Mexico to recover upon two promissory notes. The plaintiff bank was the payee and the defendants Broyles,
Schmidt & Story, Crossman, Brown, Pratt (alias Anderson), Lewis and Evans, were the makers. Broyles. deVOL. CCXXXIV-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

faulted; the other defendants answered, alleging in
substance that they had signed the notes for Broyles'
accommodation and had been induced to sign by the
fraudulent representations of the bank. Upon the trial,
the motion of the plaintiff for a direction of a verdict was
granted as against all the defendants except Lewis, and
as to him the plaintiff was permitted to take a non-suit.
The judgment on the verdict was affirmed by the Supreme Court of the Territory. 16 New Mex. 414.
Several questions of pleading and practice are presented,
but in view of their local character we accept, as to these,
the rulings of the territorial court. Phcenix Rwy. Co. v.
Landis, 231 U. S. 578; Work v. United Globe Mines, 231
U. S. 595; Santa Fe Rwy. Co. v. Friday,232 U. S. 694. We
shall therefore assume that the complaint was sufficient;
and that the defenses of alteration, the unauthorized filling
of blanks, and the failure to credit certain payments, were
not available because not suitably pleaded. The Supreme
Court of the Territory also held that although both parties
had requested peremptory instructions, the defendants
were entitled, upon the denial of their motion, to ask that
the case be submitted to the jury and that this request was
properly made. See Empire State Company v. Atchison
Company, 210 U. S. 1.
The question before us then is whether, in view of the
state of the evidence upon the defense that the notes were
procured by fraud, the trial court erred in directing a verdict for the plaintiff. It is apparent that there was evidence sufficient to go to the jury that the signatures of
some of the defendants had been obtained by means of
fraudulent representations. Upon this point, the Supreme Court of the Territory said, p. 423:" The defense, as
we have seen, was principally that the signing of the notes
was procured by fraud. There was undoubtedly evidence
that the defendants Anderson*" (impleaded as Pratt),
"Evans, Brown and Lewis were told by plaintiff's repre-

SCHMIDT v. BANK OF COMMERCE.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

sentative prior to signing the notes that Broyles was solvent and were further told that plaintiff had ample collateral for the notes, and there was also evidence from which
the jury might have concluded that the defendants signed
the notes in reliance upon these representations. We find
also upon the record room for a conclusion by the jury that
these statements were untrue and that they were known
when made to be untrue. Indeed the trial court recognized this, for as to Lewis, in whose favor the testimony on
this point was no strongir than on behalf of Anderson,
Evans and Brown, the court held that the matter was one
for the jury." Notwithstanding this estimate of the evidence, the court sustained the recovery against the last
named defendants holding that as they were liable upon
former notes for the same amount, which were renewed
by the notes in suit, the defense was not available. It was
said that, even assuming the notes in suit to have been
given 'as the result of a wilful misrepresentation,' the defendants being bound by the former notes were 'held to
no greater duty than previously rested upon them' and
hence could not defend upon the ground that they were
induced to sign the notes by fraudulent representations.
We are unable to agree with this conclusion. The question was not one of a recovery of damages in deceit. Ming
v. Woolfolk, 116 U. S. 599, 602, 603. If there was fraud,
it vitiated the transaction and the plaintiff could not avail
itself of its own wrong by enforcing the notes. The fact
that the three defendants, Anderson, Evans -adBrown,
were liable on the former notes did not place them under
any legal obligation whatever to make the notes in suit.
It appeared that the former notes were signed by Broyles,
Anderson, Evans and Brown; the last three being in effect
sureties for Broyles; and as the court states, 'upon the
giving of the present notes, these former notes were surrendered by plaintiff bank and destroyed.' On the new
notes Lewis, Schmidt & Story and Crossman were addi-

68

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

tional makers and in effect new co-sureties. Not only was
there new paper but the legal position of Anderson, Evans
and Brown was materially changed. Broyles was discharged from liability on the old notes and, with respect
to the new, there were six (treating the firm of Schmidt &
Story as one) in the position of co-sureties instead of three.
No one of the three defendants in question who were parties to the original paper could pay it and hold the other
two to their original measure of contribution. The new
notes constituted new promises with distinct legal consequences. It is clear that the plaintiff could not enforce
them if they were fraudulently induced.
There was no evidence of fraudulent representations to
the defendants Schmidt & Story and Crossman, but they
contend that they are not bound if their co-makers were
relieved from liability by reason of the plaintiff's fraud.
Reference is made to § 55 of the Negotiable Instruments
Act, Laws of 1907 (New Mexico), c. 83, which provides:
"The title of a person who negotiates an instrument is
defective within the meaning of this act when he obtained the instrument, or any signature thereto, by fraud,
duress or force. and fear, or other unlawful means, or for
an illegal consideration, .or when he negotiates it in
breach of faith, or under such circumstances as amount to
a fraud." It has been held by the Supreme Court of Wisconsin, in construing the same language in the Wisconsin
act, that if one of the signatures of several co-makers is
obtained by fraud, the defense is also available to the other
makers since the equality of burden is disturbed. Hodge
v. Smith, 130 Wisconsin, 326; Auidand v. Arnold, 131
Wisconsin, 64, 66, 67. In the case last cited the court said,
referring to Hodge v. Smith, supra: "It was there held that
the title of a person who negotiates commercial paper is
defective when he has obtained any signature thereto by
fraud, and that if the party so defrauded be relieved from
liability thereon, then such fraud makes such paper void-

SCHMIDT v. BANK OF COMMERCE.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

able by all the other persons who signed it, though they
did not participate in and were ignorant of such fraudulent
conduct at the time they signed it. This conclusion was
reached upon the ground that, when several persons assume such an obligation, it is material and important that
all who join as makers should share equally in bearing
the burden of its payment, and if, through the fraud of the
person holding it, such equality of burden is disturbed
and the burden increased. as to some of the persons signing
it, such fraud renders the title defective as to all of the
persons who signed it." While this construction of the
statute was apparently accepted, it was held that the defense was not open toSSchmidt & Story and Crossman for
the reason that they signed the notes several days before
the signatures of the other defendants upon whom the
fraud was practiced were obtained and that there was no
evidence in the- record 'as to whether the defendants
Schmidt, Story and Crossman or any of them had any
knowledge that -there were to be any other signers than
themselves.' Accordingly, it was said that so far as the
record showed the notes were 'complete and binding
obligations' upon these defendants at the time they executed the same and that fraud in obtaining the signatures
of the subsequent co-signers would not affect the equality
of the burden they had assumed.
This, as it seems to us, is not an adequate answer to the
defendants' contention. It is true that these defendants
have endeavored to maintain that the notes were altered
by the addition of the other signatur.es, relying upon Negotiable Instruments Law, § 125. See Daniel, Negot. Inst.,
§ 1387. But the Supreme Court of the Territory ruled
that under the pleadings this defense was not available
and could not be considered. The plaintiff could not
maintain this position and at the same time defeat the defense of fraud upon the ground.-that the notes were complete instruments, -and as such had become the binding

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

234 U. S.

obligations of these defendants, before the others signed.
Taking the notes as they stood upon the pleadings and
proof, we think that these defendants (Schmidt & Story
and Crossman) must be regarded as co-makers with the
other defendants, to whom the representations are said
to have been made, and it follows that if any of the signatures of these co-makers were obtained by fraud the
equality of burden was altered. The plaintiff's fraud,
assuming it to have been committed, changed the legal
effect of the promise of these defendants. For these reasons we think that they were entitled to have the evidence
as to fraudulent representation submitted to the jury and
that the direction of the verdict in favor of the plaintiff
was error.
The judgment is reversed and the case is remanded to the
Supreme Court of the State of New Mexico for further
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion. It is so
ordered.

EX PARTE ROE.
PETITION FOR WRIT OF MANDAMUS.
No. 13, Original.

Argued April 6, 1914.-Decided May 25, 1914.

When a Federal court decides that a case removable from a state court
on independent grounds is not made otherwise by § 6 of the Employers' Liability Act, the decision is a judicial act done in the exercise of jurisdiction conferred by law, and, even if erroneous, is not
open to collateral attack, but only subject to correction in an appropriate appellate proceeding.
The authorized mode of reviewing such a ruling in an action at law is
by writ of error from the final judgment. Judicial Code, §§ 128, 238.
The writ of mandamus lies to compel the exercise by a judicial officer of
existing jurisdiction but not to control his decision.

