OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

234 U. S.

separate statements in the previous reports in considering
that road. While we do not say that the conclusion is
affirmatively sustained, nevertheless we think the state
of the record at least tends to give some support to the
suggestion in the argument that the greater magnitude
and importance of the consideration of the business and
rates of the two trunk line carriers concentrated attention
in that direction and therefore caused the inquiry on that
subject and the facts concerning the same to eclipse the
distinctions between those lines and the East Coast
Line-distinctions which if otherwise taken under consideration should have produced a different result.
As it follows from these views that the order in question
as to the East Coast Line and its enforcement should have
been enjoined by the court below, our duty is to reverse
the action of that court and to remand the case to the
proper District Court with directions to grant the prayer
of the East Coast Line and restrain the enforcement of the
order in question and it is so ordered.
Reversed.

VAN DYKE v. CORDOVA COPPER COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF ARIZONA.
No. 735.

Motion to dismiss submitted May 11, 1914.-Decided June 8,
1914.

Although words may be superfluous, if the statute be construed in
accordance with the obvious intent of Congress, the courts should
not, simply in order to make them effective, give them a meaning
that is repugnant to the statute looked at as a whole, and destructive of its purpose.
Under §§ 32 and 33 of the Arizona Enabling Act of June 20, 1910, the
judgment of the state court in a case transferred to it from the

VAN DYKE v. CORDOVA COPPER CO.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

territorial court is not reviewable by this court simply because it was
pending in the territorial court at the time 6f the Enabling Act;
such a judgment can only be reviewed by this "court where a Federal
question exists to give jurisdiction as in the case of judgments from
the courts of other States.
Writ of error to review, 14 Arizona, 499, dismissed.
THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of this court
to review judgments of the courts of a State rendered after
statehood in cases transferred from the territorial court,
are stated in the opinion.

Mr. William J. Hughes, Mr. John H. Campbell and
Mr. Karl W. Kirchwey, for defendant in error, in support
of the motion.
Mr. Richard E. Sloan and Mr. James Westervelt, for
plaintiff in error, in opposition to the motion.
Memorandum opinion by MR.CRIEF JUSTICE WHITE,
by direction of the court.
This action was brought on December 2, 1911, by the
Cordova Copper Company in the "District Court of the
Fifth Judicial District of the Territory of Arizona in and
for the County of Gila" to recover sums of money alleged
to have been loaned to Van Dyke, the plaintiff in error,
and remaining unpaid. The case was tried in April and
May, 1912, after the admission of Arizona as a State, in
the "superior court of Gila county, State of Arizona" and
resulted in a verdict on May 4 for $15,364.75, upon which
judgment was entered on the same day. On May 16,
Van Dyke moved for a new trial, which motion was at the
instance of the Company stricken from the files. An appeal was taken to the Supreme Court of the State. The
court, deciding that the appeal was taken alone from the
judgment and that there was no reversible error in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.

Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

judgment roll, held that it could not review errors which
were alone susceptible of being reviewed upon an appeal
from an order, refusing a new trial, although treating the
motion' to strike out as equivalent to such refusal, and the
judgment was consequently affirmed. This writ of error
was then prosecuted and the case is before us on a motion
to dismiss.
Neither in the assignments of error nor in the argument
at bar is it asserted that Federal rights were raised or
involved in the court below, but the assertion that the
case is within our jurisdiction rests solely upon the provisions of §§ 32 and 33 of the Arizona Enabling Act of
June 20, 1910, c. 310, 36 Stats., pp. 557, 576, 577. The
sections in question, generally speaking, provide for the
trial of cases pending at the time of admission to Statehood and for their transfer to the appropriate courts
established under the new system, and the particular
language upon which the controversy turns is this:
" . .and that from all judgments and decrees or
other determinations of any court of the said Territory,
in any case begun prior to admission, the parties to such
cause shall have the same right to prosecute appeals,
writs of error, and petitions for review to the Supreme
Court of the United States or to the circuit court of appeals
as they would have had by law prior to the admission of
said State into the Union."
The contention is that as this case was "begun prior to
admission" and is one which in consequence of the amount
involved might have been brought to this court from a
judgment of the Supreme Court of the Territory, therefore
it comes within the express terms of the statute and there is
jurisdiction. But conceding the premise we think the
conclusion is clearly in conflict with the plain language of
the provision relied upon. We say this because the right
to prosecute writs of error conferred is limited to "judgments and decrees or other determinations of any court of

VAN DYKE v. CORDOVA COPPER CO.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

the said territory," thus obviously excluding the right to
review in a case like this where although "begun prior to
admission," the case was tried after the conferring of
statehood and judgment rendered in a state court. It
may indeed be, as suggested in the argument, that to thus
construe the provision renders superfluous the phrase
"in any cause begun prior to admission," since in the
nature of things no judgment could be rendered by a
territorial court unless the action had been brought prior
to the admissi6n of Arizona as a State. But we may not in
order to give effect to those words virtually destroy the
meaning of the entire context, that is, give them a significance which would be clearly repugnant to the statute
looked at as a whole and destructive of its obvious intent.
The statte was enacted for a two-fold purpose, first, to
save the right of appeal which had arisen and was in
existence in cases decided prior to statehood in the methods
contemplated by existing laws, and second, to appropriately distribute and provide for the transfer of untried
and pending causes to the new courts which would come
into existence under the new system. Passing the question of power to so do, itcould not be assumed except as
the result of the most unequivocal direction to that end
that the statute was intended to create a new and strange
method of procedure unknown to our constitutional system
of government by which the judgments to be rendered
by state courts in cases which the statute contemplated
should be transferred to such courts for trial, should be
reviewed, not according to the methods provided by the
stat6 law for such judgments, but by the Federal courts,
although no Federal question of any kind was present
to give such courts jurisdiction. That no such anomaly
could possibly have been contemplated is shown by the
proviso of § 33 of the act making cases in the Supreme
Court of the Territory which were pending at the time of
Statehood and which were transferred to the highest

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Statement of the Case.

234 U. S.

court of the State reviewable by this court not as judgments of territorial courts, but on te contrary as judgments of state courts; in other words, making it plain
that it was not contemplated that after a case had been
transferred to and decided by a state court it would be
subject to a review in this court, simply because it was
pending in the territorial court at the time of the Enabling Act, as if it were a judgment of a territorial court.
Dismissedfor want of jurisdiction.

MULLEN v. SIMMONS, SHERIFF OF JOHNSTON
COUNTY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
OKLAHOMA.,
No. 263.

Submitted May 11, 1914.-Decided June 8, 1914.

The policy of Congress in regard to restrictions upon alienation of allotments has been to protect Indians against.their own improvidence,
whether shown by acts of commission or omission, contract0 or torts..
The prohibition, contained in § 15 of the act of 'July 1, 1902, as to
affecting or encumbering allotments made under the act by deeds,
debts or obligations contracted prior to the termination of period of
restriction on alienation, applies to a judgment entered against an
allottee, whether based on a tort or on a contract.
A tort may be a breach of a mere legal duty or a consequence of negligent conduct, and a confessed judgment based on a prearranged tort
might become an easy means of circumventing the policy of the
statutes restricting alienation of Indian allotments if alienation could
be effected by levy and sale under such a judgment.
33 Oklahoma, 184, reversed.
THE facts, which involve the constructibn of the .piovisions of the act of July 1, 1902, affecting alienation of

