OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

234 U. S.

respecting train brakes, automatic couplers, grab irons,
and the height of draw-bars shall be extended to all railroad vehicles used upon any railroad engaged in interstate
commerce, and to all other vehicles used in connection
with them, so far as the respective safety devices and
standards are capable of being installed upon the respective vehicles. It follows that by the act of 1903 the standard height of draw-bars was made applicable to locomotive engines as well as to freight cars. And so it was held
by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in
Chicago &c. Railway Co. v. United States, 196 Fed. Rep.

882, 884.
/

Judgment affirmed.

ROLLER v. MURRAY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE
OF WEST VIRGINIA.
No. 966.

Motion to dismiss or affirm submitted May 25, 1914.-Decided June 22, 1914.

A mere error of law not involvihg a Federal question and committed
in the exercise of jurisdiction by giving conclusive effect to a judgment rendered in another State affords no opportunity for a review
in this court.
If the court rendering the judgment had jurisdiction of the subjectmatter and the parties, the merits of the controversy are not open
for reinvestigation in the courts of another State; but, under the full
faith and credit clause of the Federal Constitution and § 905, Rev.
Stat., the latter must give the judgment such credit as it has in the
State where it was rendered.
The proper method of obtaining a review of the Federal question ad.versely decided by the state court is by writ of error to this court
under § 237, Judicial Code, and not by collaterally attacking the
judgment on the ground that it denies due process of law when it
is invoked in the courts of another State.

ROLLER v. MURRAY.
234 U. S.

Opinion. of the Court.

Where the effect of the judgment of another State dissolving an injunction as res judicata is denied on the ground that it is not a final
decree, if the contention that a final decree was subsequently rendered which concluded the merits was not presented to the court,
there is no basis for review in this court under § 237, Judicial Code
on the ground that full faith and credit was not given to the original

judgment.
Writ of error to review 71 W. Va. 161, dismissed.

THE facts, which involve the application of the full faith
and credit clause of the Federal Constitution and the jurisdiction of this court to :review a judgment of the state
court, under §237, Judicial Code, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. Holmes Conrad and Mr. Edward S. Conrad, for defendants in error, in support of the motion.
Mr. John E. Roller, pro se, and Mr. Herbert W. Wyant,
for plaintiff in error, in opposition to the motion.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY

delivered the opinion of the court.

This writ of error was sued out under § 237, Jud. Code
(act of March 3, 1911, 36 Stat. 1087, 1156, c.'231), in
order to bring under review a judgment of the Supreme
Court of Appeals of the State of West Virginia (71 W. Va.
161), which affirmed a decree of the Circuit Court of
Pendleton County, in that State, in an equitable action
brought by plaintiff in error against defendants in error.
His original bill was filed May 10, 1901, and an amended
bill was filed in December, 1907. Complainant therein
averred that in the year 1872 he was employed by the
late Emily Hollingsworth, of the city of Philadelphia, as
attorney, to recover for her a tract of 52,000 acres of land
situate in the counties of Rockingham and Augusta, in
the State of Virginia, and the county of Pendleton, in
the State of West Virginia, and immediately undertook

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

the necessary work and labor, and diligently and faithfully
endeavored to discharge the duties imposed upon him by
the employment; that from time to time various parcels
of land were recovered from adverse claimants, some by
compromise settlements and others by actions of ejectment, until the entire tract of 52,000 acres was recovered,
the actual litigation not being completed until some time
in the year 1893; that portions of the property had been
sold, so that in the year 1889 there remained of the lands
recovered about 44,000 acres undisposed of, from the
proceeds of the sale of which complainant was to receive
payments on account of his services; that on or about
April 1, 1889, the said Emily Hollingsworth made a deed
of gift of the unsold lands, amounting to about 44,000
acres, to Mary H. Murray, one of the defendants, upon
condition that she should pay to complainant one-fifth
of the proceeds thereafter to be realized on the sale of
the lands, and that she should hold the same as trustee for
complainant, and complainant avers that the said Mary
H. Murray accepted said deed upon that condition, and
became liable to complainant for the said proportion of
said proceeds of sale and for the reasonable value of his
services rendered by him to Miss Hollingsworth and to
be thereafter rendered to the said Mary H. Murray; that
the latter, having accepted the conveyance, continued to
act under it and in conformity with it until May 25, 1901,
when for the first time she repudiated it. The object of
the bill was to enforce a trust as to the undivided one-fifth
of the land and of the purchase money upon sales made
of the same, as against Mary H. Murray and her grantees
with notice. Mrs. Murray pleaded that in a chancery
cause brought by the same complainant against her, with
others, in the Circuit Court for the County of Rockingham, in the State of Virginia, a court of competent jurisdiction, complainant asserted and claimed that there was
due to him from her the same sum of money and the same

ROLLER v. MURRAY.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

debt, as compensation for the same gervices alleged in his
present bill, and that the cause of action was the same
as now. set up and asserted.; that on June 24, 1907, a final
decree was made and entered in said cause by the said
Circuit Court, and this, on appeal, was affirmed-by the
Supreme Court of Appeals of Virginia in accordance with
opinions found in 59 S. E. Rep. 421 (107 Virginia, 527),
in which it was held that defendant Mary H. Murray was
a privy in estate to Miss Hollingsworth, her grantor,
and a privy also to the contract with complainant, and
that the said Supreme Court of Appeals of Virginia, affirming the Circuit Court, determined that complainant
had no right to recover on said cause of action, wherefore
defendant pleaded the final adjudication of the Virginia
court as res adjudicata. There was filed with the plea a
certified copy of the record of the proceedings had in the
Circuit Court of Rockingham County, Virginia, and in
the Supreme Court of Appeals of that State. Subsequently, complainant filed in the Pendleton County
Court written objections to the plea of res adjudicata,
upon the following grounds: First, that the Circuit Court
of Rockingham County, Virginia, after the rendition of
the judgment pleaded by defendant, in another cause
pending in that court between the Chesapeake-Western
Company and the complainant, John E. Roller, and others,
in which latter cause the said Mary H. Murray was impleaded as a party, decred that the matters involved in
the cause pending in the Circuit Court of Pendleton
County, West Virginia, were not concluded by the judgment and decree of the Circuit Court of Rockingham
County, Virginia, and dd therefore vacate and dissolve
certain injunctions previously awarded in that cause restraining complainant from further prosecution in the
West Virginia court of his present suit against said Mary
H. Murray. Secondly, that the cause of action and
grounds of jurisdiction and relief in the present cause are

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

not the same as those set out in the record filed in the plea
of res adjudicata. And thirdly, that the record and judgment of the Virginia court should not be enforced as res
adjudicatafor the following reasons: (a) that the courts of
West Virginia do not enforce foreign judgments that are
contrary to the laws and public policy of that State; (b)
that the decree rests not upon rights arising ex contractu,
or upon torts based on natural rights, but upon a penalty
denounced by the policy of the law of Virginia which is
not so denounced by the policy of the law of the State of
West Virginia, and that it is not one of such nature as
the courts of West Virginia will enforce; and (c) that the
lex loci rei sitac determines the jurisdiction and relief to be
given by this court as to the land in the bill referred to,
regardless of the judgment of any sister State as to land
therein situate.
The Circuit Court of Pendleton County, West Virginia, sustained the plea of res adjudicata and dismissed
the bill, and it is the judgment of the court of last resort
of West Virginia affirming this decree that is now under
review.
There are three assignments of error, the substance of
which is as follows:
First, that the court erred in holding that the plea of
res adjudicatafiled by the defendant Mary H. Murray was
a good and sufficient plea, for the reason that the decree
therein relied upon in terms provided that it should be
without prejudice to complainant's right to institute other
proceedings upon a quantum meruit if so advised, and that
the record shows the cause of action and ground of jurisdiction were not the same in the present West Virginia
action as those set out and contained in the record in the
Virginia action; the present action being based upon a
quantum meruit for just and reasonable compensation for
services rendered by complainant in and about the recovery of the tract of land in controversy.

ROLLER v. MURRAY.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Second, that the court erred in sustaining the action of
the court below upholding the plea of res adjudicata, because the decrees in the Virginia courts presented in that
plea were void and of no effect since they had denied to
complainant due process of law, in that they had denied
to him the right to file the third amended bill of complaint tendered by him, and denied him a hearing upon
the case thereby presented.
Third, that the court erred in sustaining the action of
the court below in overruling the objections made by .complainant to the plea of res adjudicata,because in the suit of
Chesapeake-Western Company v. Roller, et al., it was necessarily decided that the matters involved in the case in
the West Virginia courts were not concluded by the decrees rendered in the first cause of Roller v. Murray in
the Virginia courts.
There is a motion to dismiss or affirm, based upon the
ground that no Federal question is raised by the record,
or that if any such question is raised it is so frivolous as
not to need further argument.
It appears that the Virginia court (107 Virginia, 527),
denied relief to complainant with respect to the lands in
that State upon the ground that the contract upon which
the action was based was champertous, and therefore illegal under the laws of theCommonwealth. The Supreme
Court of Appeals of West Virginia (71 W. Va. 161), finding
that this decision was rendered not in a mere proceeding
in rem or quasi in rem, but in an action in personam (defendants having appeared, and the validity of the contract constituting the basis of the plaintiff's claim to the
fund or to the land having been actually litigated by the
parties and decided by the courts), that decision. necessarily settled and determined the question of the validity
of the contract in the State of Virginia, and that under the
"full faith and credit" clause of the Constitution of the
United States the decision was entitled to the same credit

OCTOBER TERM, .1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

in West Virginia that it had in the Commonwealth of
Virginia. Upon this ground, although assuming that the
contract was Valid under the law of West Virginia viewed
independently of the Virginia decision, the court held
itself bound by the Virginia decision to deny relief to
complainant.
It is argued under the first assignment of error that the
contract in controversy must be held to be a Pennsylvania
contract, and that its validity and enforcement in the
courts of West Virginia did not depend upon the decision
of the Virginia courts, but required an independent consideration upon its merits by the courts of West Virginia,
and that their failure to give such consideration was a
denial of due process of law. We are unable to find that
it was contended in the courts of West Virginia that the
contract in question was made in Pennsylvania or ought
for other reasons to be regarded as a Pennsylvania contract; nor are we able to find that the "due process of
law" clause was invoked in the West Virginia courts
upon the ground that to follow the Virginia decision would
be a denial of the right of plaintiff in error to such process.
Assuming the contention to have been made, we are unable to see that any Federal question was thereby raised.
Supposing the courts of West Virginia erred in giving conclusive effect to the Virginia decision, this was no more
than an error of law, committed in the exercise of jurisdiction over the subject-matter and the parties; and such
an error-not involving a Federal question-affords no
opportunity for a review in this court.
The same response must be made to the second argument presented under the first assignment of error, which
is that the contract in controversy shows that its terms,
so far as they related to the property within the jurisdiction of West Virginia, were different from those which
related to the property in Virginia, and that the West
Virginia court, in holding them to be the same and refusing

ROLLER v. MURRAY.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to recognize the contract as a West Virginia contract
deprived plaintiff in error of his property without due
process of law.
It is not contended that the West Virginia court, in
holding the Virginia judgment to be conclusive upon the
present controversy, violated the "full faith and credit"
clause of the Federal Constitution. By that clause, and
by the act of Congress (§ 905, Rev. Stat.) passed to carry
it into effect, it was incumbent upon the West Virginia
court to give to the judgment the same faith and credit
that it had by law or usage in the courts of Virginia. The
effect of this was that, provided the Virginia court had
jurisdiction of the subject-matter and of the parties (which
was not questioned), the merits of the controversy there
concluded were not open to reinvestigation in the courts
of West Virginia. It is not here questioned that the West
Virginia courts gave such credit to the Virginia judgment
as was thus required.
Under the second assignment of error, the argument is
that plaintiff in error was denied due process in the Virginia courts in that the Circuit Court of Rockingham
County arbitrarily and unlawfully rejected his third
amended bill, and its action in so doing was affirmed by
the court of last resort of that State. Upon this point the
West Virginia court (71 W. Va. 170), said:
"The said amendment was offered at a very late stage
of the proceedings. The court based its rejection thereof
upon two grounds, the delay in tendering it without, excuse or explanation and its failure to show a contract
materially different from that set up in the original and
first and second amended bills. In disposing of the amendment, the court said: 'The bill had been amended twice
already, and after these amendments, and after a thorough
argument of the case on its merits, the court announced
its decision. A due regard for the orderly procedure of
the court -and the rights of the opposing party required

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

_

234 U. S.

that some limit be set to the privilege of amendments.
The amendments now presented are offered without explanation or excuse, and in the main are unsubstantial,
and would not change the opinion of the court on the
merits of the case.' Having said this, the court proceeded
to analyze the amendments and show their lack of merit
and insufficiency to bring about a different conclusion if
they had been filed. The decision relied upon to sustain
this contention is Hovey v. Elliott, 167 U. S. 409, asserting
lack of due process in the entry of a decree for the plaintiff,
after having stricken out the defendant's answer, because
he was guilty of contempt in neglecting to pay into court
a certain sum of money. This was a total denial of the
right of defense, upon an insufficient ground. In that
case, the action of the court was arbitrary and oppressive.
Here, the plaintiff had been allowed a hearing. He had
filed an original and two amended bills and had no doubt
had opportunity to tender the third amended bill long
before the submission of the cause. It is certainly competent for a court to say, within reasonable limits, what
amounts to a compliance with its rules and the principles
of law, respecting the order and limitations of proceedings
in a case. Besides, in the opinion of the court, the proposed amendment would not have changed the character
of the plaintiff's claim, nor relieved the contract of its
infirmity. An erroneous decision in respect to either of
these matters would not amount to a denial of due process
of law. As to them, it is not a case in which the plaintiff
has had no day in court."
For present purposes it is sufficient to say that there is
nothing upon the face of the record to indicate that the
refusal of the Virginia court to entertain complainant's
third amended bill was arbitrary or unlawful, or otherwise
inconsistent with the "due process of law" clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment; that there is nothing to show
that in the Virginia court complainant based his right to

ROLLER v. MURRAY.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

file a third amended bill upon the Fourteenth Amendment; and that if he had in fact set up such a right in the
Virginia court and it had been there denied, his proper
mode of obtaining a review of the Federal question would
have been by prosecuting a writ of error under § 709,
Rev. Stat. (§ 237, Jud. Code) to review the judgment of
the court of last resort of Virginia, and not by attacking
the judgment collaterally upon that ground when it was
invoked against him in the courts of West Virginia.
With respect to the third assignment of error, it is contended that the Supreme Court of Appeals of West Virginia refused to give full faith and credit to the objection
interposed by plaintiff in error to the plea of res adjudicata
based upon the decrees -rendered in the Virginia case of
Roller v. Murray, the objection being based upon the record in the case of Chesapeake-Western Company v. Roller,
a subsequent decision in the Virginia courts, which, it is
contended, overruled the decision in the first Virginia
suit so far as it tended to debar plaintiff in error from
suing upon a quantum meruit. It appears that the decision
in the Chesapeake-Western Company Case was to dissolve
an injunction that had been issued against the prosecution
of the West Virginia suit. Its effect as res adjudicatawas
denied by the West Virginia court (71 W. Va. 172), upon
the grouid that it was not a final decree. It is now contended that subsequent to the decree dissolving the injunction a final decree was rendered in the same cause which in
effect concluded the merits. We find nothing in the record, however, to show that any such contention was presented to the West Virginia courts.
Since we are unable to find that any substantial question of Federal right was raised by plaintiff in error in the
courts of West Virginia and there decided against him, it
follows that the writ of error must be
Dismissed.

