SOUTHERN RY. CO. v. CROCKETT.
234 U. S.

Syllabus.

to say that the bill is devoid of any showing that
defendants are asserting claims against complainants' title
in any court other than the Florida state court. Hence
there is no occasion to invoke the general rule that the
court first obtaining jurisdiction of a controversy should
be permitted to proceed without interference. Peck v.
Jenness, 7 How. 612, 624; CentralNational Bank v. Stevens,
169 U. S. 432, 459; Bigelow v. Old Dominion Copper Co.,
74 N. J. Eq. 457, 473, et seq.
We deem that the main object of the bill, to which all
else is incidental, is in contravention of § 265 of the Judicial Code (formerly § 720 of the Revised Statutes), and
that therefore the decree should be
Affirmed.

-sufficient

SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY v. CROCKETT.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE
OF TENNESSEE.

No. 826.

Submitted April 16, 1914.-Decided June 22, 1914.

Motion to dismiss a writ of error to the state court to review a judgment in an action under the Employers' Liability Act in which the
construction of the Safety Appliance Acts was involved, denied.
By the Employers' Liability Act the defense of assumption of risk remains as at common law, save in those cases mentioned in § 4 where
the violation by the carrier of any statute enacted for the safety of
employ~s contributed-to the accident.
This court has heretofore construed the letter of the Safety Applianee
A-ct in the light of its spirit. and purpose as indicated by the title no
less than by the enacting clauses and. that guidin ._Qrincipleshould
be adhered to.
Although the original Safety Appliance Act may not have applied to
vehicles other than freight, cars, the amendment of 1903 so broadened its scope as to make its provisions, including those respecting

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Plaintiff in' Error.

234 V. S.

height of draw-bars, applicable to fWopmotives other than those that
are excepted in terms.
By the amendment of 1903 to the Safety Appliance Act the standard
height of draw-bars was made applicable to all railroad vehicles used
upon any railroad engaged in interstate commerce, and to all other
.vehicles, including locomotives, used in connection with them so far
as the respective safety devices and standards are capable of being
installed upon the respective vehicles. Chicago &c. Ry. Co. v.
United States, 196 Fed. Rep. 882, approved.
THE facts, which involve the construction and application of the provisions of the Safety Appliance Acts and of
the Employers' Liability Act, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. L. E. Jeffries and Mr. L. D. Smith for plaintiff in
error:
The Safety Appliance Act did not require a draw-bar
thirty-one and one-half inches high. A switch-engine is
not a freight car. The words "all cars" in § 2 are not
applicable to height of draw-bars. The effect of the act
of 1893, and the effect of the amendment of 1903 were
misconceived by the Circuit Court of Appeals.
The defendant in error assumed the risk: such was the
common-law rule and that doctrine was not abolished
by the Federal Employers' Liability Act.
In support of these contentions, see American R. R.
Co. v. Birch, 224 U. S..544; Baker v. Kansas City &c.,
129 Pac. Rep. 1151; Bowers. v. Southern Ry. Co., 73 S. E.
Rep. 679; Burns v. Delaware Tel. Co., 7 N. J. L. 745; California Bank v. Kennedy, 167 U. S. 362; Central Vt. Ry.
Co. v. Bethune, 206 Fed. Rep. 868; Choctaw, 0. & G. R.
Co. v. McDade, 191 U. S. 64; Cleveland &c. Ry.. v. Bassert,
87 N. E. Rep. 158; Creswill v. Grand Lodge, 225 U. S. 246;
Eau Claire Bank v. Jackman, 204 U. S. 522; Employers'
Liability Cases, 223 U. S. 6; Freeman v. Powell, 114 S. W.
Rep. 1033; Gila Valley Ry. Co. v. Hall, 232 U. S, 94; Gulf
&c. Ry. v. McGinnis, 228 U. S. 173; Hammond v. Whitt-

SOUTHERN RY. CO
234 U. S.

Upii:ion

-'('RO(_,KEI .

of the Court.

redge, 204 U. S: 538; Ill. Cent. R. R. Co. v. McKendree,
203 U. S. 514; Johnson v. Railroad Co., 196 U. S. 1; Kan.
City Sou. Ry. Co. v. Albers Com. Co., 223 U. S. 573; Kizer
v. Texarkana Ry. Co., 179 U. S. 199; Louis. & Nash. R. R.
Co. v. Lankford, 209 Fed. Rep. 321; McCormick v. Market
Bank, 165 U. S. 538; Mich. Cent. R. R. Co. v. Vreeland,
227 U. S. 59; Mondou v. N. Y., N. H. & H. R. Co., 223
U. S. 1; Neil v. Idaho, 125 Pac. Rep. 331; Neilson v.
Lagow, 12 How..98; Nutt v. Knut, 200 U. S. 12; Pennell v.
Phila. & R. Ry. Co., 231 U. S. 675; Rector v. City Deposit
Bank Co., 200 U. S. 405; St. L., I. 1l. & S. R. Co. v. Taylor,
210 U. S. 281; St. L., I. M. & S. R. Co. v. McWhirter, 229
U. S. 275; St. L., S. F. d, T. R. Co. v. Seale, 229 U. S. 156;
San Jose Land Co. v. San Jose Ranch Co., 189 U. S. 177;
Schlemmer v. Buffalo, R. & P. R. Co., 220 U. S. 590; Seaboard Air Line v. Duvall, 225 U. S. 477: Seaboard Air Line
v. Moore, 228 U. S. 433; Southern Ry. Co. v. Gadd, 207
Fed. Rep. 277; Swaffo;,d v. Templeton, 185 U. S. 487;
Tex. & Pac. Ry. Co. v. Archibald, 170 U. S. 665; Tex. &
Pac. Ry. Co. v. Swearingen, 196 U. S. 51; Un. Pac. R. R.
Co. v. O'Brien, 161 U. S. 451; Un. Pac. R. R. Co. v. Fuller,
202 Fed. Rep. 45; Worthington v. Elmer, 207 Fed. Rep.
306.
Mr. J. A, Fowler, Mr. A. C. Grimm and Mr. H. G.
Fowler for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY

delivered the opinion of the court.

Crockett, the defendant in error, brought this action in
the Circuit Court of KnIox County, Tennessee, to recover
damages for personal injuries sustained by him while in
the employ of the Railway Company. The action was
based upon the Federal Employers' Liability Act of
April 22, 1908, c. 149, 35 Stat. 65, in connection with the
Safety Appliance Act of March 2, 1893, c. 196, 27 Stat.

OCTOBER TERM, 1918.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

531, and the amendments of 1896 and 1903, c. 87, 29
Stat. 85; c. 976, 32 Stat. 943. He recovered a judgment
in the trial court; which was affirmed by the Court of Civil
Appeals. A petition for a writ of certiorari being presented to the Supreme Court of Tennessee, that court
dismissed the petition and affirmed the judgment.
The facts, so far as material, are as follows: Defendant
was an interstate carrier by railroad, and plaintiff was in
its employ as a switchman and was engaged in a move.ment of interstate commerce at the time he was injured.
The date of the occurrence was October 15, 1910. In
making up a freight train, a switch-engine, with a freight
car attached, was being moved down grade towards where
other freight cars were standing upon the track, when the
single car became uncoupled from the engine, and, being
propelled by gravity towards the standing cars, came
into contact with them. Plaintiff, being upon the car
which thus became uncoupled, was by the impact thrown
against the brake and injured. He insisted that the car
became detached from the engine because of the defective
condition of the tratk at that point, in conjunction with
the insufficient height of the draw-bar on the engine.,
There was evidence tending to show that the ground upon
which the track rested was wet and marshy, and the
cross-ties .broken and insufficient, so that the track was
uneven and rough, and that, as a result, the engine and
the car attached to it were made to alternately rise and
fall at the ends where they were coupled together; and
tending further to show that the draw-bar upon the engine, which was used in coupling the c4r to it, was not more
than thirty inches high, measured from the track to the
center of the draw-bar; that it was too low to engage properly with the couplers of ordinary freight cars, and that
because of the resulting inadequacy of the coupling, together with the unevenness of the track, the car in question became detached. There was, however, evidence

SOUTHERN RY. CO. v. CROCKETT.
234 U. S.

729

Opinion of the Court.

tending to show that plaintiff 'knew of the defective condition of the track and of the engine; that le had passed
over the same track frequently with the same engine, and
that prior to the occurrence in question cars had, as he
knew, repeatedly become detached from the engine because of the conditions mentioned. It was either found
or assumed by the state courts that defendant's railway
was of standard gauge, and that the standard height of
draw-bars for freight cars ranged between a:maximum of
34Y2 inches and a minimum of 31Y/2 inches. See Resolution of Interstate Commerce Commission, June 6, 1893
(Ann. Rep. I. C. C., 1893, pp. 74, 263), construed in St.
Louis & Iron Mountain Ry.v. Taylor, 210 U. S. 281, 286;
see also, Ann. Rep. I. C; C., 1896, p. 94. It should be
noted that the alleged cause of action arose October 15,
1910, after the enactment of the amendment of that year
to the Safety Appliance Act, but before the taking effect
of the Commission's order respecting draw-bars, made pursuant to the new law. This order while dated October 10,
1910, became effective on December 31 following.
Defendant requested the trial court to direct a verdict
in its favor, upon the ground that plaintiff admittedly
knew of the defects and therefore assumed the risk. The
court refused the motion, and likewise refused the request
of defendant for an instruction to the jury in the following
terms: "If the jury should find from the evidence that the
draw-bar of the engine was defective by being too low,
or the track defective, and that this caused the engine to
become detached from the cars, and this caused the plaintiff's injury,' still, if you should further find that these
defective conditions had existed prior to that time with
the knowledge of the plaintiff, and plaintiff knew before
he went to work that the defect existed at that time and
that by reason thereof the engine had been accustomed to
become uncoupled, and he appreciated the danger, then
the court charges you that under those facts the plaintiff

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court

234 U. S.

could not recover, and your verdict should be in favor of
the defendant."
The contentions of defendant, overruled by each of the
state courts and here renewed, are, that by the true interpretation of the Employers' Liability Act the commonlaw rule respecting the assumption of risk was not abolished except in cases where the violation by th6 carrier
of some statute enacted for the safety of employ~s contributed to the injury of the employ6; and that by the
Safety Appliance Act and amendments, as properly interpreted, the height or construction of the draw-bars of
locomotives was not regulated, so that the fact that the
draw-bar in question was only thirty inches high was not
a violation of these acts, and hence afforded no ground
for a recovery under the Employers' Liability Act.
There is a motion to dismiss, based upon the insistence
that the record presents no question reviewable in this
court under § 237, Jud. Code (act of March 3, 1911, c. 231,
36 Stat. 1087, 1156). The motion must be overruled,
upon the authority of St. Louis & Iron Mountain Ry. v.
Taylor, 210 U. S.281, 293; SeaboardAir Line Ry. v. Duvall,
225 U. S.477, 486; St. Louis, Iron Mountain & Southern
Ry. v. McWhirter, 220 U. S. 265; Seaboard Air Line v.
Horton, 233 U. S.492, 499.
Upon the merits, we of course sustain the contention
that by the Employers' Liability Act the defence of assumption of risk remains as at common law, saving in the
cases mentioned in § 4, that is to say: "any case where
the violation by such common carrier of any statute enacted for the safety of employ6s contributed to the injury
or death of such employ6." Seaboard Air Line v. Horton,
233 U. S.492, 502.
This leaves for determination the question whether the
provision of § 5 of the Safety Appliance Act, of 1893 respecting the standard height of draw-bar, together with
the order of the iterstate Commerce Commission promul-

SOUTHERN RY. CO. v. CROCKETT.
234 U. S.

Opiniona of the Court.

gated in pursuance of it, and the 1903 amendment of that
act, had the effect of regulating the height of draw-bars
upon locomotive engines, as contended by plaintiff, or
upon freight cars only, as contended by defendant.'
1 SAFETY APPLIANCE Act of March 2, 1893, c. 196, 27 Stat. 531.
"An Act to promote the safety of employ~s and travelers upon railroads by compelling common carriers engaged in interstate commerce
to equip their cars with automatic couplers and continuous brakes and
their locomotives with driving-wheel brakes, and for other~purposes.
Be it enacted, etc., That from and after the first day of January, eighteen hundred and ninety-eight, it shall be unlawful for any common
carrier engaged in interstate commerce by railroad to use on its line
any locomotive engine in moving interstate traffic not equipped with
a power driving-wheel brake and appliances for operating the train
.brake system, or to run any train in such traffic after said date that
has not a sufficient number of cars in it so equipped with power or train
brakes that the engineer on the locomotive drawing such train can
control its speed without requiring brakemen to use the cjmmon hand
brake for that purpose.
SEC. 2. That on and after the first day of January, eighteen hundred
and ninety-eight, it shall be unlawful for any such common carrier to
haul or permit to be hauled or used on its line any car used in moving
interstate traffic not equipped with couplers coupling automatically
by impact, and which can be uncoupled without the necessity of men
going between the ends of the cars.

SEC. 5. That within ninety days from the passage of this act the
American Railway Association is authorized hereby to designate to
the Interstate Commerce Commission the standard height of drawbars for freight cars, measured perpendicular from the level of the tops
of the rails to the centers of the drawbars, for each of the several gauges
of railroads in use in the United States, and shall fix a maximum variation from such standard height to be allowed between the drawbars
of empty and loaded cars. Upon their determination being certified
to the Interstate Commerce Commission, said Commission shall at
once give notice of the standard fixed upon to all common carriers,
owners, or lessees engaged in interstate commerce in the United States
by such means as the Commission may deem proper. But should said
association fail to determine a standard as above provided, it shall be
the duty of the Interstate Commerce Commission to do so, before
July first, eighteen hundred and ninety four, and immediately to give

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

In Johnson v. Southern Pacific Co., 196 U. S. 1, a case
that arose under the act as it stood before the 1903 amendment, it was held that the provision of § 2 rendering it
"unlawful for any such common carrier to haul or permit
notice thereof as aforesaid. After July first, eighteen hundred and
ninety-five, no cars, either loaded or unloaded, shall be used in interstate traffic which do not comply with the standard above provided for.
SE.c. 6. That any such common carrier using any locomotive engine,
running any train, or hauling or permitting to be hauled or used on
its line any car in violation of any of the provisions of this act, shall
be liable to a penalty of one hundred dollars for each and every such
violation . . . Provided, that nothing in this act contained shall
apply to trains composed of four-wheel cars or to locomotives used in
hauling such trains.
SEC. 8. That any employ6 of any such common carrier who may
be injured by any locomotive, car, or train in use contrary to the provision of this act shall not be deemed thereby to have assumed the
risk thereby occasioned, although continuing in the employment of
such carrier after the unlawful use of such locomotive, car, or train
had been brought to his knowledge."
AMENDMENT OF APRIL 1, 1896, c. 87, 29 Stat. 85.
"Be it enacted, etc., That section six of an Act entitled ...
be
amended so as to read as follows:
'SEc. 6. That any such common carrier using any locomotive engine,
running any train, or hauling or permitting to be hauled or used on its
line any car in violation of any of the provisions of this Act, shall be
liable to k penalty of one hundred dollars for each and every such
violation . .
Provided, that nothing in this Act contained shall
apply to trains composed of four-wheel cars or to trains composed of
eight-wheel standard logging cars where the height of such car from
top of rail to center of coupling does not exceed twenty-five inches, or
to locomotives used in hauling such trains when such cars or loccmotives are exclusively used for-the transportation of logs."'
AMENDMENT OF MARCH

2, 1903, c. 976, 32 Stat. 943.

"Be it enacted, etc., That the provisions and requirements of the
Act entitled 'An Act to promote the safety of employs and travelers
upon railroads by compelling common carriers engaged in interstate
commerce to equip their cars with automatic couplers and continuous
brakes and their locomotives with driving-wheel brakes, and for other
purposes,' approved March second, eighteen hundred and ninety-three,

SOUTHERN RY. CO. v. CROCKETT.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

to be hauled or used on its-line any car used in moving
interstate traffic not equipped with couplers coupling
automatically by impact, and Which can be uncoupled
without the necessity of men going between the ends of
the -cars," was broad enough to embrace locomotive engines within' the description "any car." This conclusion
was based upon the declared purpose of Congress to promote the safety of employ~s and travelers upon railroads
engaged in interstate commerce, and the specific intent
to require the installation of such an equipment that the
cars would couple with each other automatically by impact and obviate the necessity of men going between them
either for coupling or for uncoupling. The court, by Mr.
and amended April first, eighteen hundred and ninety-six, shall be held
to apply to common carriers by railroads in the Territories and the
District of Columbia and shall apply in all cases, whether or not the
couplers brought together are of the same kind, make, or type; and the
provisions and requirements hereof and of said Acts relating to train
brakes, automatic couplers, grab irons, and the height of drawbars
shall be held to apply to all trains, locomotives, tenders, cars, and
similar vehicles used on any railroad engaged in interstate commerce,
and in the Territories and the District of Columbia, and to all other
locomotives, tenders, cars, aid similar vehicles used in connection
therewith, excepting thos6 trains, cars, and loaomotives exempted by
the provisions of section six of said act of March second, eighteen
hundred and ninety-three, as amended by the act of April first eighteen
hundred and ninety-six, or which are used upon street railways."
*

*k

*

AMENDMENT OF APRIL
*

*

*

*

*

*$

14, 1910, c. 160, 36 Stat 298.
*

*

*

*

*

3.
.
Said Commission is hereby given authority,
after hearing, to modify or change, and to prescribe the standard height
Df draw bars and to fix the time within which such modification or
,hange shall become effective and obligatory, and prior to the time so
ixed it shall be unlawful to use any car or vehicle in interstate or foreign
raffic which does not comply with the standard now fixed or the
tandard so prescribed, and after the time so fixed it shall be unlawful
,a use any car or vehicle in interstate or foreign traffic which does not
comply with the standard so prescribed by the commission."
"SEC.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Cont.

234 U. S.

Chief Justice Fuller, pointed out (pp. 20, 21) that by the
amendment of March 2, 1903, the provisions and requirements of the act were extended to common carriers by
railroad in the Territories and the District of Columbia,
and were made to apply "in all cases, whether or not the
couplers brought together are of the same kind, make, or
type," and that the provisions and requirements relating
to train brakes, automatic couplers, grab irons, and the
height of draw-bars, were made to apply to "all trains,
locomotives, tenders, cars, and similar vehicles used on
any railroad engaged in interstate commerce." And it
was said that this amendment was affirmative and declaratory of the meaning attributed by the court to the prior
law.
In Schlemmer v. Buffalo, Rochester &c. Railway, 205
U. S. 1, 10, it was held that a shovel car was within the
contemplation of § 2.
In Southern Ry. Co. v. United States, 222 U. S. 20, 26,
it was held that the 1903 amendment had enlarged the
scope of the original act so as to embrace all locomotives,
cars, and similar vehicles used on any railway that is a
highway of interstate commerce, whether the particular
vehicles were at the time employed in interstate commerce or not.
In Pennell v. Phila. & Reading Ry., 231 U. S. 675, the
question was whether the provision respecting automatic
couplers was applicable to the coupling between the locomotive and the tender. This was answered in the negative, the court saying (p. 678): "Engine and tender are a
single thing; separable, it may be, but never separated
in their ordinary and essential use. The connection between them, that is, between the engine and tender, it
was testified, was in the nature of a permanent coupling,
and it was also testified that there was practically no
opening between the engine and tender, and that attached to the engine was a draw-bar which fitted in the

SOUTHERN RY. CO. v. CROCKETT.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

yoke of the tender, and the pin was dropped down to
connect draw-bar and yoke. The necessary deduction
from this is that no dangerous position was assumed by
an employ6 in coupling the engine and tender for the
reason that the pin was dropped through the bar from the
tank of the tender."
In each of these cases, the letter of the act was construed in the light of its spirit and purpose, as indicated
by its title no less than by the enacting clauses. The same
guiding principle should be adhered to in considering the
question now presented. Conceding that it may be
doubtful whether the act, in its original form, evidenced
an intent on the part of Congress to standardize the
height of draw-bars upon vehicles other than freight cars,
and therefore assuming for argument's sake that the act
was not in this respect applicable to locomotive engines,
it seems to us that the amendment of 1903, manifestly enacted for the purpose of broadening the scope of the original act, must upon a fair construction be deemed to
extend its provisions and requirements respecting the
standard height of draw-bars, so as to make them applicable to locomotives, excepting such as are in terms
exempted.
There was abundant :reason for applying the standard
to locomotives. The draw-bar-sometimes called the
"draw-head'"-carries at its outer end the device or mechanism for coupling the cars. The height of the draw-bar
determines the height of the coupler, and has an intimate
relation not only to the safety of the coupling operation
but to the security of the coupling when made. See
Car-Builders Diet. (1884), tit. "Draw-bar" and "Drawhead," and Figs. 395-643; Voss, Railway Construction
(1892), pp. 16, 91, etc. The evidence in this case shows,
without contradiction, that the gripping surface of the
coupling knuckle on the freight car in question, measured
vertically, was between seven and nine inches, and that

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.

Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

because' of the comparatively low level of the engine's
draw-bar the effective grip was reduced to the point of
practical inefficiency. Indeed, it is not seriously disputed
that there exists as much reason for having the drawbars of the locomotive adjusted to a standard of height as
exists in the case of freight cars.
The experience of the Interstate Commerce Commission, in seeing to the enforcement of the act of 1893,
tended to emphasize the importance of interchangeable
equipment upon the rolling stock of railroads engaged in
interstate commerce, so that cars used in such commerce
would readily couple with cars not so used, and that
locomotives could be readily coupled With cars of either
sort. The 16th Annual Report of theCommission, 1902,
pp. 60, 61, recommended to Congress, inter alia: "That
provisions relating to automatic couplers, grab irons, and
the height of draw-bars, be made to apply to all locomotives, tenders, cars, and similar vehicles, both those
equipped in interstate commerce and those used in connection therewith (except those trains, cars, and locomotives exempted by the acts of March 2, 1893, and April 1,
1896)." This recommendation appears to have been
evoked by the decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals in
Johnson v. Southern Pacific Co., 117 Fed. Rep. 462, afterwards reversed by this court in 196 U. S. 1. The Court of
Appeals held that there was nothing in the act of 1893 to
require a common carrier engaged in interstate commerce
to have every car on its railroad equipped with -the same
kind of coupling, or to require that every car should be
equipped with a coupler that would couple automatically
with every other coupler with which it might be brought
into contact; and also that the act did 'not forbid the use
of an engine not equipped with automatic couplers. Congress not only - responded to the recommendation of the
Commission, but enlarged the act more broadly by enacting (Amendment of March 2, 1903, set forth in foot-note,

SOUTHERN RY.. CO. v. CROCKETT.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

supra) that the provisions and requirements of the original
act should be held (a) to apply to common carriers by
railroad in the Territories and the District of Columbia;
(b) to apply in all cases whether or not the couplers
brought together are of the same kind, make, or typei
(c) that "the provisions and requirements
.
relating to train brakes, automatic couplers, grab irons,
and the height of draw-bars shall be held to apply to all
trains, locomotives, tenders, cars, and similar vehicles
used on any railroad engaged in interstate commerce, and
in the Territories and the District of Columbia, and to
all other locomotives, tenders, cars, and similar vehicles
used in connection therewith," excepting those exempted
by the act of March 2, 1893, as amended April 1, 1896,
and those used upon street railways. We have to do
especially with the latter clause. As was intimated in
Southern Railway Co. v. United States, 222 U. S. 20, 25,
its collocation of phrases is not altogether artistic. But
at least the purpose is plain that where one vehicle is used
in connection with another, that portion of the equipment of each that has to do with the safety and security
of the attachment between them shall conform to standard. We cannot assent to the argument that the clause
means only that the locomotives used upon all railroads
engaged in interstate commerce and in the Territories
and the District of Columbia are to be equipped with the
appliances provided by the original act for locomotives,
and so on with the other classes of cars, and that hence
the amendatory act has merely the effect of prescribing
the standard height of draw-bars with respect to freight
ears, because the original act required such a standard
only with respect to cars of that type. This would give
altogether too narrow a construction to the language employed by Congress, and would lose sight of the spirit
and purpose of the legislation. We deem the true intent
and meaning to bo that the provisions and requirements
VOL. ccxxxiv-47

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

234 U. S.

respecting train brakes, automatic couplers, grab irons,
and the height of draw-bars shall be extended to all railroad vehicles used upon any railroad engaged in interstate
commerce, and to all other vehicles used in connection
with them, so far as the respective safety devices and
standards are capable of being installed upon the respective vehicles. It follows that by the act of 1903 the standard height of draw-bars was made applicable to locomotive engines as well as to freight cars. And so it was held
by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit in
Chicago &c. Railway Co. v. United States, 196 Fed. Rep.

882, 884.
/

Judgment affirmed.

ROLLER v. MURRAY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE
OF WEST VIRGINIA.
No. 966.

Motion to dismiss or affirm submitted May 25, 1914.-Decided June 22, 1914.

A mere error of law not involvihg a Federal question and committed
in the exercise of jurisdiction by giving conclusive effect to a judgment rendered in another State affords no opportunity for a review
in this court.
If the court rendering the judgment had jurisdiction of the subjectmatter and the parties, the merits of the controversy are not open
for reinvestigation in the courts of another State; but, under the full
faith and credit clause of the Federal Constitution and § 905, Rev.
Stat., the latter must give the judgment such credit as it has in the
State where it was rendered.
The proper method of obtaining a review of the Federal question ad.versely decided by the state court is by writ of error to this court
under § 237, Judicial Code, and not by collaterally attacking the
judgment on the ground that it denies due process of law when it
is invoked in the courts of another State.

