OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

NEW YORK LIFE INSURANCE
HEAD.

COMPANY v.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
No. 255.

Argued March 10, 1914.-Decided June 8, 1914.

Decided on authority of the preceding case.
241 Missouri, 420, reversed..
THE

facts are stated in the opinion.

Mr. James H. McIntosh, with whom Mr. Gardiner
Lathrop, Mr. Cyrus Crane, Mr. 0. W. Pratt and Mr. S. W.

Moore were on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Buckner F. Deatherage, with whom Mr. Goodwin
Creason, Mr. James S. Botsford, Mr. W. P. Borland and

Mr. James A. Reed were on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the

court.
This case is governed by the opinion in No. 254 just decided. The policy sued on was one of the two issued to
Richard G. Head in Kansas City, Missouri, in favor of his
minor son. It was delivered at Kansas City and the first
premium paid there, as in the previous case, and the subsequent premiums were paid in New Mexico. There was
borrowed upon the policy by authority of the proper probate court in New Mexico the sum of $2,270.00 under a
loan agreement and pledge; there was a default and an
adjustment of the policy as in the other case. The case
was tried in the court of first instance with the other case,
was embraced in the Supreme Court of Missouri by the

FLORIDA EAST COAST LINE v. UNITED STATES.

167

Counsel for Appellant.

234 U. S.

same opinion by which the other case was disposed of, and
there thus being no distinction between the two cases, for
reasons given in the other case, No. 254,
The judgment is reversed.

FLORIDA EAST COAST RAILWAY COMPANY v.
UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COMMERCE COURT.

No. 383. Argued January 15, 16, 1913.-Decided June 8, 1914.
The rule that a finding of fact made by the Interstate Commerce Commission'concerning a matter wAthin the scope of the authority delegated to it is binding and may not be reexamined in the courts, does
not apply where the finding was made without any evidence whatever to support it; the consideration of such a question involves
not an issua of fact, but one of 'law which it is the duty of the courts
to examine and decide.
The record does not disclose any evidence justifying the order of the
Commission directing a reduction of rates which had been held to be
reasonable by a prior order of the Commission.
In a proceeding against several railroads, testimony as to the condition
of traffic on certain railroads does not tend to establish conditions ow
another road in regard to which no testimony is given and where the
record shows essential differences between it and those roads in
regard to which the testimony was given.
200 Fed. Rep. 797, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the validity of an order of the
Interstate Commerce Commission establishing rates on
citrus fruits and vegetables from points of production in
Florida to exterior points of consumption, are stated in the
opinion.
Mr. Frederick C. Bryan and Mr. Alex. St. Clair-Abrams

for appellant.

