.548

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.'

234 U. S.

THE. PIPE'.LINE CASES.'
APPEALS FROM THE UNITED STATES COMMERCE COURT.
Nos. 481, 482, 483, 506, 507, 508. Argued October 15, 16, 1913.-Decided June 22, 1914.
The provision in the Hepburn Act, amending the Act to Regulate Commerce by making persons or corporations engaged in transporting
oil from one State to another by pipe lines carriers within the provisions of the act, applies to the co mbination of pipe lines owned and
controlled by the Standard Oil Company and to the constituent corporations united in a single line, although the only oil transported is.
that which has been purchased by the Standard Oil Company or by
such constituent corporations prior to the transportation thereof.
As applied to existing corporations, the pipe line provision of the Hepburn Act does not compel persons engaged in interstate transportation of oil to continue in operation, but it does require them not to
continue to transport oil *for others or, purchased by themselves except-as-common carriers.
The fact that the article transported between interstate points has
been purchased by the' carrier, is not conclusive against the transportation being interstate commerce; and in this case, held that interstate transportation of oil purchased from the producers by the
owner of the pipe is interstate commerce and under the control of
Congress.
While the control of Congress over commerce among the States cannot
be made a means of exercising powers not committed to it by the
Constitution, it may require those who are common carriers in substance to become so in form.
The provision in the Hepburn Act requiring persons or corporations engaged in interstate transportation of oil by pipe lines to become common carriers and subject to the provisions of the Act to Regulate
Commerce is not unconstitutional, either as to future pipe lines or
as to the owners of existing pipe lines,-as depriving them of their
property without due process of law:
':Docket title of these cases: No. 481. United States v. Ohio Oil
Company. No. 482. United States v. Standard Oil Company. No. 483.
United'States v. Standard Oil Company of Louisiana. No, 506. United
States v. Prairie Oil & Gas Company. No. 507. United States v. Uncle
Sam Oil' Comipany. No. 508. United States v. Benson, doing business
under the Partnership Name of Tide Water Pipe Company, Limited.

THE PIPE' LINE CASES.
234 U. S.

Argument for Interstate Commerce Commissioi.

Requiring a person engaged in interstate transportation'of oil by pipe
lines to become a common curier does not involve a taking of private
property, and the provision in the Hepburn Act to that effect is not
unconstitutional under .the Fifth Amendment.
A corporation engaged in refining oil may draw oil from its own wells
through a pipe line across a state 'line to its own refinery for its owli
use without being a common cariier under the pipe line provisions
of the Hepburn Act, the tramsportation being merely incidental to
the use of the oil at the end.
204 Fed. Rep. 798, reversed in part and affirmed in part.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality, construction and application of the provisions in the Hepburn
Act relating to interstate transportation of oil by pipe
lines, are stated in the opinion.

The Solicitor General for the United States and Mr.
Charles W. Needham for the Interstate Commerce Commission:
The pipe line amendment applies to these petitioners.'
Congress intended the act to apply to every interstate,
oil-carrying pipe line, and .to compel every such inter-.
state pipe line to become a common carrier as a condition
precedent to engaging in interstate commerce., Whether
any particular pipe line had or had not been a common
carrier prior to the passage of the act is wholly immaterial.
The debates in Congress may bb consulted to ascertain,
the evils at which the act was aimed; its legislative history, the amendments that were offered and rejected
during its passage and the general higtory of the times.
Am. Net. Co. v. Worthingtan, 141 U. S. 468, 473;.Binns v.
United States, 194 U. S. 486, 495,496; Blake v. National
Bank, 23 Wall. 307, 319; 1oly Trinity Church v. Unied
States, 143 U. S. 457, 465; Jennison v. Kirk, 98 U. S. 453.
Here the debates show that the evil aimed at was the
monopolization of the oil business by owners of private
pipe lines. -Amendments restricting the application of the*
act to pipe lines engaged in transportation "for hire" or

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Interstate Commerce Commission. 234 U. S.

"for the public" were repeatedly rejected. 40 Cong. Rec.
6361, 6365, 6999-7009, 9254-9256.
The rule of construction followed in the Commodities
Case, 213 U. S. 366, is not applicable here. That rule
applies only when the statute is ambiguous. Employers'
Liability Cases, 207 U. S. 463, 500.
-The act is constitutional. It stands the test laid down
in Minnesota v. Barber, 136 U. S. 313, 320; C., B. & Q.
Ry. v. Drainage Commissioners, 200 U. S. 561, 592; McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 421, namely, that:
The object of the act is one for which the Federal authority may properly be exercised.
The means employed have in fact a real and substantial relation to the object sought. They are reasonable
and not arbitrary or beyond the necessities of the 6ase.
The object of the pipe line amendment, to regulate interstate commerce in oil by protecting well owners and
independent refiners from duress by pipe line owners is
one for which the authority of Congress may properly be
exercised. StandardOil Co. v. United States, 221 U. S. 1;
Waters-PierceOil Co. v. Texas, 212 U. S. 86, 109; Central
Lumber Co. v. South Dakota, 226 U. S. 157; Continental
Paper Co. v. Voight, 212 U. S. 227, 271.
The private operation of pipe lines carrying oil in interstate commerce tends to monopoly. Standard Oil Case,
221 U. S. 1, 12, 42, 80-81; Tex. & Pac. Ry. Co. v. Int.
Com. Comm., 162 U. S. 197, 210; Report on the Petroleum
Transportation,59 Cong., 1st Sess., House Doe. 812, pp. 29,
37, 62; Report of Int. Com. Comm., 59 Cong., 2d Sess.,
House Doe. 606, pp. 2, 5, 6, 14.
No other means of transportation can possibly compete
with pipe lines. -If a well owner cannot ship by pipe line
he cannot (practically) ship at all. Without a pipe line the
small producer is as truly shut in as was the mine owner
in Strickley v. HighlandBoy Mining Co., 200 U. S. 597, or
the arid land owner in Clark v. Nash, 198 U. S. 361. Ohio.

THE PIPE LINE CASES.
234 U. S.

Argument for Interstate Commerce Commission.

Oil Co. v. Indiana,177 U. S. 190. The statute is designed
to prevent an unconscionable use of economic advantages.
The operation of pipe lines as common carriers is beyond question commercially practicable, as is shown by
prior Federal legislation; prior Federal decisions; state
legislation; state decisions; public records and reports;
current sources of information, encyclopedias, etc.
The Fifth Amendment does not prohibit the adoption
by Congress of this means, so found to be in fact reasonable and appropriate to the accomplishment of its purpose.
Congress may prohibit a kind of commerce harmful to
the public. Hoke v. United States, 227 U. S. 308; The Lottery Cases, 188 U. S. 358. This power may be exerted
for purely economic purposes whenever the strong, preponderant public opinion believes that there is a great
,public need. Noble State Bank v. Haskell, 219 U. S.104;
C., B. & Q. R. Co. v. Drainage Commissioners, 200 U. S.
561, 592; StandardOil Case, 221 U. S. 1.
In many instances regulations have taken the form of
prohibition except upon such conditions as would protect
the public welfare. The Commodities Case, 213 U. S. 366;
Atlantic Coast Line v. 'Riverside Mills, 219 U. S. 186, 202,
203; Norfolk & Western Ry.Co. v. Dixie Tobacco Co., 228
U. S. 593; Southern Ry. v. Reid, 222 U. S. 424, 438.
It is immaterial that in the present case the condition
is not express but implied. The same was true of the
banking act and the Carmack Amendment, 34 Stat. 584,
595; No6le State Bank v. Haskell, 219 U. S. 213; Atlantic
Coast Line Case, 219 U. S. 186, 203; see algo Engel v.
O'Malley, 219 U. S.128; Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S.623.
The present statute is valid as a means of preventing
owners of pipe lines from obtaining an inequitable proportion of the oil from the common reservoir. Ohio Oil Co. v.
Indiana, 177 U. S. 190, 210; Lindsley v. Natural Carbonic Gas Co., 220 U. S. 61. Even at common law it
would have been unlawful for a single proprietor to install

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Interstate Commerce Commission.

234 U. S.

at great expense pumping machinery so powerful that he
could rapidly draw away the entire common reservoir.
Forbell v. City of New York, 164 N. Y. 522, 526. See also
Kansas v. Colorado, 206 U. S. 46. Clearly the use of such
pumps might be forbidden by statute. Manufacturers
Gas Co. v. Indiana Gas Co., 155 Indiana, 461; Oklahoma v.
Kansas Gas Co., 221 U. S. 229, 262. And if their use could
be prohibited absolutely, why could it not also be prohibited except upon condition that their owner should
give -to the adjacent proprietors an equitable proportion
of the common property.
Nor -does the law violate the Fifth Amendment in that,
being general in its terms, it might cover pipe lines which
are not public'markets for oil. Whether purely private
pipe lines must be entirely prohibited in order to give the
public adequate protection is a matter of legislative discretion. Purity Extract Co. v. Lynch, 226 U. S. 192; Booth
v. Illinois, 184 U.. S. 425; Lemieux v. Young, 211 U. S.
489; Powell v. Pennsylvania, 127 U. S. 678, 685; Silz v.
Hesterberg, 211 U. S. 31; Commonwealth v. Gilbert, 160
Massachusetts, 157; Knoxville Iron Co. v. Harbison, 183
U. S. 13; The Slaughter-house Cases, 16 Wall. 36; The Pure
Food Law, 34 Stat. 768, 770.
Nor does the act take property for public use without
compensation. This clearly is true as to the prohibition of
purely private operation. The exclusive element is the
monopoly element. No compensation need be given for
that. There is'no vested right in a noxious use of property.
Standard Oil Case, 221 U. S. 1; Mugler 4. Kansas, 123
U: S. 623, 669; Commodities Case, 213 U.. S. 366, 405;
Noble State Bank v. Haskell, 220 U. S. at 100; Union Bridge
Co. v. United States, 204 U. S. 364; Slaughter-house Cases,
16 Wall. 36; L. & N. R. Co. v. Mottley, 219 U. S. 467; C., B.
& Q. R. Co. v. DrainageCommissioners,200 U. S. 561, 592.
The business of the appellees is quasi-public. The test
to determine whether a business is quasi-public is by as-

THE PIPE LINE CASES.
234 U. S.

Argument for Appellees.

certaining whether public grants and franchises are essential to establish and carry on the business; if the business
cannot be carried on without such privileges it is quasipublic; such grants and franchises, subject the business to
a continuing public control; as is the case with all public
utility companies requiring rights in public streets and
reservations.
Public markets where agents of a business determine
property rights for the public by inspecting, grading, weighing and measuring staple products regularly offered for sale
at such markets, are charged with a public interest. W. W.
Cargill Co. v. Minnesota R. & W. Comm., 180 U. S. 452.
Pipe lines require, and are granted, franchises to cross
and run along public highways, streets, rights of way of
railroads, public lands and reservations. These privileges, or some of them, have been granted to each of the
appellees. Each appellee is engaged in buying crude oil
in the fields of production; they have their business headquarters where oil is bought from producers; the oil is
inspected, graded and gauged for sale, by the agents of
the appellees and other pipe lines.
In the Ohio Oil Case the transportation is sixty miles
and across a state line. This is not a "plant facility." It
is transportation from the field of production to a point
of consumption. Ownership of the pipe line, or the oil,
does not change the control of Congress over it. If the
State of Kansas should require a license tax of all persons
or corporations bringing oil into the State' by means of
pipe lines, it would be held to be invalid as a burden upon
interstate commerce, regardless of ownership. If it can
receive protection under the commerce clause, it is certainly liable to regulation under that provision of the Constitution. Robbins v. Tax. Dist. of Shelby Co., 120 U. S. 489.
Mr. John G. Milburn, with whom Mr. Frank L. Crawford, Mr. Walter F. Taylor, Mr. M. F. Elliott and Mr.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Appellees.

234 U. S.

Chester0'. Swain were on the brief, for appellees in Nos. 481,
482, and 483:
The Interstate Commerce Act as amended in 1906 does
not apply to the appellee, nor to any owner of a private
pipe line.
The act was intended to relate to persons engaged in
the business of transporting oil. Any other interpretation
raises grave and doubtful constitutional questions.
Debates in Congress may not be referred to in aid of
construction of a statute. Omaha St. Ry. v. Int. Com.
Comm., 230 U. S. 324.
As construed by the Government, the act makes common carriers of persons and corporations owning and
operating private pipe lines used solely for the purpose
of transporting the oil of the owners in the conduct of
their private business, even though such owners have
never held themselves out as common carriers, have
never exercised or possessed and do not now possess any
right of eminent domain, and derive no powers from state
laws under which common carrier corporations are organized. It follows that the act deprives such persons
and corporations of their property without due process of
law, and takes it for public use without just compensation.
To make the owners of private pipe lines common
carriers as to those lines is to subject private property
to a public use and is a "taking" of property within the
meaning of the Fifth Amendment.
Since the act, as thus construed, takes private property
without providing for due compensation, it violates the
Fifth Amendment.
The power of Congress to regulate interstate commerce,
like all other powers delegated to that body, is subject to
the limitations imposed by the Fifth Anmendment.
The contention of~the United States that just compensation is provided is untenable. The rates to be paid for

THE PIPE LINE CASES.
234 U.S.

Argument for Appellees.

transportation are not the compensation intended by the
Fifth Amendment.
This act cannot be sustained on the theory of the United
States that the operation of private pipe lines is monopolistic, that the act prohibits their operation (save as
common -carriers) as an appropriate means to prevent
monopolistic results, and that the adoption of this means
by Congress is not within the inhibitions of the Fifth
Amendment.
There is nothing inherent in the nature or oieration
of private pipe lines which causes a tendency to monopoly.
Neither the authorities, cited nor the debates in Congress nor the Report of the Commissioner of Corporations
sustains the Government's position on this point.
Nor does the Report of the Interstate Commerce Commission, dated January 28, 1907.
Cases cited in support of position that the private
operation of pipe lines tends to monopoly do not help the
Government
There is no proof' of "duress " or "oppression" on part
of owners of private pipe lines. Cases cited under this
head are irrelev-ant.
The mere extent of acquisition of business or property
achieved by fair and lawful means or commercial dominance fairly resulting from the ownership of private property lawfully obtained is not the criterion of monopoly
or monopolization, within the legal meaning of those
words. Monopolization is the unlawful exclusion of
others from opportunities and privileges which are rightfully theirs, Monopoly, in the legal sense, is the condition
resulting from monopolization thus defined.
It follows therefore that the act, even regarded as an
act prohibiting the operation of pipe lines save as common
carriers, cannot be sustained as an appropriate means to
prevent monopoly, because there is no real and substantial relation between what the, act, ordains and monopoly.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Appellees.

234 U. S.

There is no: such relation,, 4nless the operation of a
private pipe line, in the nature of things, tends to monopolization, antidunless that fact would justify a "taking"
of property without just compensation, which is not the
case.
In fact, 'there is no prohibition in the act, nor any requirement of election.,.The assumed prohibition and requirement to elect, if
present in the act, would be unconstitutional.
The right to carry goods from one State to another is
not a franchise to be granted or withheld by Congress at
its pleasure, but is an inherent right of the citizen, which
antedated the Constitution.
The act, as construed by the Government, violates the
due process clause.
Each case under the police power is to be interpreted
according to its own facts.
The act cannot be sustained,: as contended on behalf
of the Interstate Commerce Commission, by resorting to
the doctrine of the Elevator and Stockyards Cases, because,
as applied to private pipe lines, the act does not regulate
a business affected with a public interest, in the sense of
those cases.
Neither the utilization by a pipe line company of the
right of way of a common carrier railroad for the laying
of a pipe line, nor the crossing under a public highway
by such pipe line, impresses upon the pipe line or its
owner the nature or the obligations of a common
carrier.
. The Ohio act of 1868 has no bearing upon the controversy.
Prior' to the transfer to the Standard Oil Company of
New Jersey of the pipe lines now owned by it, their use
by the National. Transit Company and New York Transit
Company' did not constitute them common carrier lines.

But, even had they beenoxmon

,carrier lines, they would

THE PIPE LINE CASES.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

have been released from the obligations of common carriers upon their transfer to appellee in 1906.
In support of these contentions see, amongst many
cases, the following: Amer. &Eng. Encyc. of Law (2d ed.);
Angell on Highways (2d ed.); Barclay v. Howell, 6 Peters,
498; Bloomfield Gaslight Co. v Calkins, 62 N. Y. 386;
Ches. & Pot. Tel. Co. v. Mackenzie, 74 Maryland, 36;
Currie v. N. Y. Transit Co., 66 N. J. Eq. 313; Elliott on
Railroads; Huffman v. State, 21 Ind. App. 449; Morgan v.
Louisiana, 93 U. S. 217; Oman v. Bedford-Bowling Co.,
134 Fed. Rep. 64; Pemberton v. Dooley' 43 Mo. App. 176;
Rexford v. Knight, 11 N. Y. 308; Roebling v. Trenton Ry.
Co., 58 N. J. Law, 666; Starr v. Camden & Atl. R. R. Co.,,
24 N. J. Law, 592; State v. Laverack, 34-N. J. Law, 201;,
Thomas v. Ford, 63 Maryland, 346; Weller v. McCormick,
52 N. J. Law, 470; Winter v. Peterson, 24 N. J. Law, 524;
Wright v. Carter, 27 N. J. Law, 76; Wyoming Coal Co. v.
Price, 81 Pa. St. 156.
Mr. W. S. Fitzpatrick, with whom Mr. J. B. F. Cates,
Mr. L. W. Keplinger and Mr. C. W. Trickett were on the
brief, for appellee in No. 506.
Mr. Albert L. Wilson for appellee in No. 507.
Mr. W. I. Lewis, Mr. Archibald F. Jones and Mr. R. R.
Lewis, for appellees in No. 508, submitted.'
MR.

JUSTIcE HoLmEs delivered the opinion of the';

court.
By the act of Congress of June 29, 1906, c. 3591, 34
Stat. 584, the Act to Regulate Commerce was amended
so that the first section reads in part as follows: "That
the provisions of this Act shall apply to any corporation
or any person or persons engaged-in the transportation of

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

oil or other commodity, except water and except natural
or artificial gas, by means of pipe lines, or partly by pipe
lines and partly by railroad, or partly by pipe lines and
partly by water, who shall be considered and held to be
common carriers within the meaning and purpose of this
Act." Thereafter the Interstate Commerce Commission
issued an order requiring the appellees among others,
being parties in control of pipe lines, to file with the Commission, schedules of their rates and charges for the transportation of oil. 24 I. C. C. 1. The appellees thereupon
brought suit in the Commerce Court to set aside and annul
the order, and a preliminary injunction was issued by that
court, on the broad ground that the statute applies to
every pipe line that crosses a state boundary and that
thus construed it is unconstitutional. 204 Fed. Rep. 798.
The. United States, the Interstate Commerce Commission and other intervening respondents appealed.
The circumstances in which the amendment was passed
are known to every one. The Standard Oil Company, a
New Jersey corporation, owned the stock of the New
York Transit Company, a pipe line made a common
carrier by the laws of New York, and of the National
Transit Company, a Pennsylvania corporation of like
character, and by these it connected the Appalachian oil
field with its refineries ip the east. It owned nearly all
the stock of the Ohio Oil Company, which connected the
Lima-Indiana field with its system; and the National
Transit Company, controlled by it, owned nearly all the
stock of the Prairie Oil' and Gas Company, which ran from
the Mid-Continent field in Oklahoma and Kansas and the
Caddo field in Louisiana to Indiana and connected with
the previously mentioned lines. It also was largely interested in the Tide Water Pipe Company, Limited, which
connected with the Appalachian and other fields and
pursued the methods of the Standard Oil Company about
to be described. By the before mentioned and subordinate

THE PIPE LINE CASES.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

lines the Standard Oil Company had made itself master
of the only practicable oil transportation between the oil
fields east of California and the Atlantic Ocean and carried
much the greater part of the oil, between those points.
Before the recent dissolution the New York and Pennsylvania Companies had extended their lines into New
Jersey and Maryland to the refineries and the laws of
those States did not require them to be common carriers.
To meet the present amendment the Standard Oil Company took a conveyance of the New Jersey and Maryland
lines, and the common carrier lines now end at insignificant places where there are neither market nor appliances
except those of the Standard Oil, by which it would seem
that the whole transport of the carriers' lines is received.
There is what seems to be merely a formal breach of continuity when the carriers' pipes stop. The change is not
material to our view of the case.
Availing itself of its monopoly of the means of transportation the Standard Oil Company refused through its
subordinates to carry any oil unless the same was sold to
it or to them and through them to it on terms more or less
dictated by itself. In thi;3 way it made itself master of
the fields without the necessity of owning them and carried across. half the continent a great subject of international commerce coming from many owners but, by the
duress of which the Standard Oil Company was master,
carrying it all as its own. The main question is whether
the act does and constitutionally can apply to the several
constituents that then had been united into a single line.
Taking up first the construction of the statute, we think
it plain that it was intended to reach the combination of
pipe lines that we have described. The provisions of the
act are to apply to any person engaged in the transportation of oil by means of pipe lines. The words 'who shall
be considered and held to be common carriers within the
meaning and purpose of this act' obviously are not in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.\

Z34 U. S.

tended to cut down the generality of the previous declaration to the meaning that only those shall be held common
carriers within the act who were common carriers in a
technical sense, but an injunction that those in control
of pipe lines and engaged in the transportation of oil shall
be dealt with as such. If the Standard Oil Company and
its cooperating companies were not so engaged no one
was. It not only would be a sacrifice of fact to form but
would empty the act if the carriage to the seaboard of
nearly all the oil east of California, were held not to be
transportation within its meaning, because by the exercise of their power the carriers imposed as a condition to
the carriage a sale to themselves. As applied to them,:
while the amendment does not compel them to continue
in operation it does require them not to continue except
as common carriers. That is the plain meaning as has
been held with regard to other statutes similarly framed.
Atlantic Coast Line R. R. Co. v. Riverside Mills, 219 U. S.
186, 195, 203. : Its evident purpose was to bring within its
scope pipe lines that although not technically common
carriers yet were carrying all oil offered, if only the offerers
would sell at their price.
The only matter requiring much consideration is the
constitutionality of the act. That the transportation is
commerce among the States we think clear. That conception cannot be made wholly dependent upon fechnical
questions of title, and the fact that the oils transported
belonged to the owner of the pipe line is not conclusive
against the transportation being such commerce.. Rearick
v. Pennsylvania, 203 U. S. 507, 512. See Texas & New
Orleans R. R. Co. V. Sabine Tram Co., 227 U. S. 111. The
situation that we have described would make it illusory
to deny the title of commerce to such transportation,
beginning in purchase and ending in sale, for the same
reasons that make' it transportation within the act.
The control of Congress over commerce among the

THE PIPE LINE CASES.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

States cannot be made a means of exercising powers not
entrusted to it by the Constitution, but it may require
those who are common carriers in substance to become so
in form. So far as the statute contemplates future pipe
lines and prescribes the conditions upon which they may
be established there can be no doubt that it is valid. So
the objection is narrowed to the fact that it applies to
lines already engaged in transportation. But, as we
already have intimated, those lines that we are considering are common carriers now in everything but form.
They carry everybody's oil to a market, although they
compel outsiders to sell it before taking it into their pipes.
The answer to their objection is not that they may give
up the business, but that, as applied to them, the statute
practically means no more than they must give up requiring a sale to themselves before carrying the oil that
they now receive. The whole case is that the appellees if
they carry must do it in a way that they do not like. There
is no taking and it does not become necessary to consider
how far Congress could subject them to pecuniary loss
without compensation in order to accomplish the end in
view. Hoke v. United Stailes, 227 U. S. 308, 323. Lottery
Case, 188 U. S. 321, 357.
These considerations seem to us sufficient to dispose of
the cases of the Standard Oil Company, the Ohio Oil
Company, the Prairie Oil and Gas Company and the Tide
Water Pipe Company, Limited. The Standard Oil Company of Louisiana was incorporated since the passage of
the amendment, and before the'beginning of this suit to
break up the monopoly of the New Jersey Standard Oil
Company. It buys a large part of its oil from the Prairie
Oil and Gas Company which buys it at the wells in the
Mid-Continent field and transfers the title to the Louisiana
Company in that State. Its case also is covered by what
we have said.
There remains to be considered only the Uncle Sam Oil
VOL. ccxxxiv-36

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
THE CHIEF

JUSTICE,

concurring.

234 U. S.

Company. This company has a refinery in Kansas and
oil wells in Oklahoma, with a pipe line connecting the
two which it has used for the sole purpose of conducting
oil from its own wells to its own refinery. it would be a
perversion of language, considering the sense in which it
is used in the statute, to say that a man was engaged in
the transportation of water whenever he pumped a pail
of water from his well to his house. So as to oil. When,
as in this case, a company is simply drawing oil from its
own wells across a state line to its own refinery for its
own use, and that is all, we do not regard it as falling
within the description of the act, the transportation being
merely an incident to use at the end. In that case the
decree will be affirmed. In the others the decree will be
reversed.
No. 507, Decree affirmed.
Nos. 481, 482, 483, 506 and 508, Decrees reversed.
THE CHIEF JUSTICE concurring.
Agreeing in every particular with the conclusions of the
court and with its reasoning except as to one special subject, my concurrence as to that matter because of its
importance is separately stated. The matter to which I
refer is the exclusion of the Uncle Sam Oil Company from
the operation of the act. The view which leads the court
to exclude it is that the company was not engaged in
transportation under the statute, a conclusion to which I
do not assent. The facts are these: That company owns
wells in one State from which it has pipe lines to its refinery in another State, and pumps its own oil through
such pipe lines to its refinery and the product of course
when reduced at the refinery'passes into the markets of
consumption. It seems to me that the business thus carried on is transportation in interstate commerce within
the statute. But despite this I think the company is not

THE PIPE LINE CASES.
234 U. S.

McKENNA, J.,

dissenting.

embraced by the statute because it would be impossible
to make the statute applicable to it without violating the
due process clause of the Fifth Amendment, since to
apply it would necessarily amount to a taking of the property of the company without compensation. It is shown
beyond question that the company buys no oil and by
the methods which have been mentioned simply carries
its own product to its own refinery; in other words, it is
engaged in a purely private business. Under these conditions in my opinion there is no power under The Constitution without the exercise of the right of eminent domain
to convert without its consent the private business of the
company into a public one.
Of course this view has no application to the other companies which the court holds are subject to the act because
as pointed out the principal ones were chartered as common carriers and they all either directly or as a necessary
result of their association were engaged in buying oil and
shipping it through their pipes; in other words, Were
doing in reality a common carrier business, disguised, it
may be, in form, but not changed in substance. Under
these conditions I do not see how it would be possible to
avoid the conclusion which the court has reached without
declaring that the shadow and not the substance was the
criterion to be resorted to for the purpose of determining
the validity of the exercise of legislitive power.
MR. JUSTICE McKENNA,

dissenting.

I am unable to concur in the judgment of the court or
in the reasoning upon which it is based. I pass by the construction of the amendment of June 29, 1906 (c. 3591, 34
Stat. 584), set out in the opinion, although its application
to the business of appellee companies is in controversy.
I shall assume its applicatio*n, therefore, and pass to the
other and more serious questions. Extended discussion

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
McKENNA,

J., dissenting.

234 U. S.

of them is not now possible. Indeed, any discussion may
not be worth while, as I express only my individual views.
In order to be brief, I have to refer to the principles of the
decision of the court, and indeed I am impelled more to
dissent from them than from the judgment. It is of little
consequence, aside from the rights of the appellee companies, whether they are subject to be regulated as common carriers, but it is of great consequence whether the
sanctions of property be impaired.
The outside principle of the decision is the power of
Congress to regulate interstate commerce, but to assert
that power solves none of the difficulties of the questions
in the case. I need not pause to demonstrate that the
exercise of that power is subject to other provisions of
the Constitution, and one of those provisions is invoked
by the appellees. It is contended that the act offends the
Fifth Amendment in that it takes their property without
due process of law. But what is due process of law, and
wherein does its requirement limit the power of Congress?
Neither question can be answered in a word, and the
usual considerations are encountered when the courts are
called upon to investigate the limits of legislative power.
Autocracy is free from' such perplexities. When authority can say, "The State-it is I!" it meets no impediments to its exercise. But that extreme illustration is
not necessary. Even a government under a constitution,
if it be unwritten, may have a power that leaves nothing
for the courts to do other than to enforce the fiats of legislative authority. Under a written constitution, however,
there is a sovereignty superior to the legislature, that of
the people expressed in the Constitution. How to reconcile legislation with the limitations of the Constitution
and leave government practical in its exercise is a problem
which comes to this court often. It is the problem in the
case at bar. It is to be regretted that there is no indisputable standard for its solution-no indisputable test of

THE PIPE LINE CASES.
234 U. S.

McKENMA, J., dissenting.

due process of law. We know that an act of legislation
does not necessarily satisfy it. It may, however, be sufficient, or, to be more careful and accurate, there may be a
regulation of the uses of property whose legality cannot
be denied. Regulation is not a taking, and we are brought
to the inquiry, what uses of property will subject it to
regulation? I mean regulation in a special sense, not in
the sense in which-all property, whether its uses be public
or private, is subject to regulation. "Property," it is
said, "becomes of public interest when used in a manner
to make it of public consequence, and affect the community at large." "When, therefore, one devotes his
property to a use in which the public has an interest, he,
in effect, grants to the public an interest in that use, and
must submit to be controlled by the public for the common
good, to the extent of the interest he has thus created."
Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 113; Budd v. New York, 143
U. S. 517; Brass v. Stoeser, 153 U. S. 391; German Alliance
Insurance Co. v. Kansas, 233 U. S. 389. Manifestly the
principle needs the definition of the facts of the cases.
In three of them the feen for storage of grain were regulated; in the other the price of fire insurance; but dominant in all, as giving character to the property, was the
fact that its use was voluntarily offered to the public.
There was no compulsion of use or service. This must be
kept in mind as the determining circumstance. Conduct
may be regulated which cannot be initially commanded.
The rates of interest may be regulated, but loans can not
be compelled. There is further illustration in a case subsequent to those cited. In W. W. CargillCo. v. Minnesota,
180 U. S. 452, an injunction was sought against the operation of an elevator and warehouse situated on -the right
of way of a railroad until its operator should have obtained a license from the Railroad and Warehouse Commission of the State under a law of the State. The defendant company bought 'and sold grain, although its

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
McKENNA,

J., dissenting.

234 U. S.

elevator was used for storing its own grain only. The
state court decided that the business was of a "public
character" and was "sufficiently affected with a public
interest to warrant a very considerable amount of regulation of it by the State." This conclusion was put upon
the ground that the elevator was a kind of public market
place and it was important to see that correct weights
were had, uniform grades given, proper amount of dockage taken and no dishonest practice allowed. The provision for a license was sustained. The act, however, provided for many other regulations, among others, for the
receipt and storage of the grain of others and the rates of
charges therefor. The state court, passing on these and
other regulations, said that there were many provisions
in the act which applied only to warehouses and elevators
in which grain was stored for others or for the public and
which could not apply to such warehouses as the one in
question, and there were perhaps provisions in the act
which it would be unconstitutional to apply to such warehouses. The court, however, said, "Such matters need
not be considered at this time. The provision recognizing
license is not one of these." One of the judges of the court
-was of opinion that on account of the interdependence of
the provisions of the act. many of them, when applied to
warehouses not used for the storage of grain by others,
were beyond the police power of the State and, therefore,
invalid, and made the whole act so. This court, by Mr.
Justice Harlan, sustained the judgment of the state court
and said "that the mere requirement of a license was not
forbidden by the Fourteenth Amendment." Answering
the suggestion that other provisions were repugnant to
the Constitution of the United States, it was said that the
license would give authority to carry on the business
under the valid laws of the State and the valid regulations
of the Commission. The case, therefore, manifestly decides that the use of the warehouse by others could not

THE PIPE LINE CASES.
234 U. S.

McKENNA,

J., dissenting.

have been legally compelled, and in the other cases, as we
have seen, it was the act of the parties, not the power of
the law, which devoted the property to the public interest. In the Munn Case it was said of the owners of the
elevators that there was no attempt to compel them "to
grant the public an interest in their property, but to declare their obligations if they used it in this particular
manner." And further, "He may withdraw his grant by
discontinuing the use; but so long as he maintains the
use, he must submit to the control."
In the cases cited, therefore, there was a regulation of
uses which were extended voluntarily to others. I recall
no case where the use was compelled and by the use so
compelled regulation was justified. The case at bar has
no fellow in our jurisprudence.
These considerations are not touched upon in the
opinion of the court, and how far they affect the decision
can only be conjectured. It may be not at all. At any
rate, other considerations are given explicit prominence.
The impulse of the amendment is said to be the control
which the Standard Oil Company had acquired over the
pipe-line transportation of oil. It is further said that it
availed "itself of its monopoly of the means of transportation" by refusing to carry "through its subordinates any
oil unless the same was sold to them and through them to
it on terms more or less dictated by itself, and thereby
became master of the fields without owning them." It
is not very clear whether this is intended as a statement
merely of the motive of the amendment or of its legal
justification. If stated as the 'Motive of the amendment
I have no concern with it; as a justification of the amendment its foundation must be considered
The facts of the cases the opinion of the court does not
give. They are, however, quite necessary to a discussion
of the questions which they present. I quote the summary of the Commerce Court (p. 802):

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
MCKENNA,

J., dissnting.

234 U. S.

"The Prairie Oil and Gas Company is a corporation
organized in 1900 under the laws'of the State of Kansas.
It owns and operates a system of pipe lines consisting of
gathering lines in the mid-continent field, in the States of
Kansas and Oklahoma, a trunk line from that field to
Griffith in the State of Indiana, where it connects with the
Indiana pipe line, and a trunk line in the State of Arkansas,
connecting the Oklahoma pipe line with the pipe line of
the Standard Oil Company of Louisiana. This company
has no refinery, and its business is confined to producing,
purchasing, and selling crude oil, which it delivers to its
customers by means of the pipe lines described. Its own
wells yield only about 12,000 barrels per day and it purchases approximately 70,000 barrels per day on the average. Its trunk lines are about 860 miles in length, of
which some 300 miles are located on the right of way of
the Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Railway Company
under contract arrangement with that company.*
"The Uncle Sam Oil Company is a corporation organized in 1905 under the laws of the State (then Territory) of Arizona. rt owns and operates a pipe line from
itswells in the State of Oklahoma to its refinery at Cherryvale, Kans. The extent to which this company purchases
oil from other producers, if it engages in that business at
all, does not appear from the record.
"Robert D. Bensoii et al. are the members of a partnership, organized in 1878 for the term of 20 years and reorganized in 1898 for a further term of 20 years, in compliance with the laws of the State of Pennsylvania, and
doing business under the name of the Tide-Water Pipe
Co. (Ltd.). This company transports oil from the Appalachian field in the western part of Pennsylvania, and
also oil received through connecting lines from other
fields, to the Tide-Water Oil Co. refinery at Bayonne, in
the State of New Jersey. It also owns and operates branch
lines in New York and Pennsylvania, and a line extending

THE PIPE LINE CASES.

234 U. S.

569 '

MCKENNA, J., dissenting.

from Stoy, Ill., through the States of Illinois, Indiana,
Ohio, and Pennsylvania. The greater part of the crude
oil transported by this company is purchased from other
producers. The lines which it owns and the Bayonne
refinery which it serves are under common or unified
control.
"The Ohio Oil Co. is a corporation organized in 1887
under the laws of the State of Ohio. It owns and operates
pipe lines in the States of Ohio, Indiana, and Illinois and
also leases and operates a line from Negley, Ohio, to Centerbridge, in the State of Pennsylvania. It is an extensive
purchaser of crude oil from other producers.
"Standard Oil Company, designated, for convenience,
'Standard Oil Company of New Jersey,' is a corporation
organized in 18.82 under the laws of the State of New
Jersey, and its principal pipe lines are the following:
(a) A line extending from Unionville, in the State of New
York, near the boundary line of New Jersey, through
the latter State to its refineries at Bayonne; (b) a line from
Centerbridge, in the State of Pennsylvania, near the'
boundary of New Jersey, through the latter State to its
refineries at Bayonne and Bayway; and (c) a line from
Fawn Grove, in the State of Pennsylvania, near the boundary of Maryland, through the latter State to its refinery
at Baltimore. The record indicates that much the greater
part of the oil transported through these lines, and perhaps all of it, is oil which this company has purchased.
"The Standard Oil Company of Louisiana is a corporation organized in 1909 under the laws of that State. It
owns and operates a refinery at Baton Rouge and a trunk
line extending thereto from the town of Ida, near the
northern line of Louisiana, and also gathering lines in
the Caddo field, in the States of Louisiana and Texas.
It purchases a considerable part of the crude oil which its
lines transport.
"None of the petitioning corporations is organized or

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
McKENNA,

J., dissenting.

234 U. S.

derives any of its corporate powers from laws of the State
of its creation under which common carrier or other public
service corporations are organized, but each of them was
formed and has always conducted its operations under and
in compliance with state laws which relate to private as
distinguished from public business."
The companies do not possess the right of eminent domain, and their lines are laid over private rights of way,
except some of them for short distances 'have laid their
lines along the rights of way of certain railroads under
some contract arrangement with the railroads, one of
them for a distance of about 300 miles. They, however,
have in many instances also laid their lines across or along
public streets and highways by permission or consent of
the local authorities. None of them has ever held itself
out as a common carrier or in fact ever carried oil for
others, but they have carried only -such oil as they produced from their own wells or purchased from othei
producers and which they owned when the transportation
took place.
Concluding its recitation of facts, the Commerce Court
said (p. 803): "In short, so far as their legal status is fixed
by the laws of the States of their 'creation, and so far as
their acts and attitude could make them such, all the petitioners [appellee companies] carry on a private business,
at least in the sense that they transport only their own
oil and have always refused to transport for others; and
all of them have evidently sought and claimed to so conduct their operations as to avoid any public activity
which might subject them to public regulation."
These being the facts, it is yet insisted that the appellee companies are common carriers "in substance" and
Congress by its action has only made them so "in form,"
and that this is unquestionably within the power of Congress. But there is something more to be considered
than an antithesis of words. There is an antithesis of

THE PIPE LINE CASES.
234 U. S.

MCKE]NA,

J., dissenting.

legal consequences-the subjecting of property to other
uses than those of its owner. A manifest taking, therefore.
But let me get away from any appearance of considering
words or forms of expression to an estimation of the facts.
The Standard Oil Company of New Jersey is made prominent, and the exemplar of all of the other companies,
and its stock ownership in some of them is assumed to
destroy their individuality and unite them all in operation, character and effect,. Indeed, it is represented as the
single controlling force and master of the transportation
of oil "between the oil fields east of California and the
Atlantic ocean." Under its sway are pictured all the
other companies except the Standard Oil of Louisiana,
the latter company, however, having a baneful potency
of dictation to the other owners in the oil fields, as has
its exemplar, the Standard Oil of New Jersey. In other
words it is argued the companies have made themselves
masters of their respective fields by the constraint of the
sale of the oil of other owners to them upon terms more
or less dictated by them by availing themselves of their
"monopoly of the means of transportation." This is the
charge. The facts of the case do not sustain it except as
they exhibit the advantages of the possession of property
which others do not possess. Must it be shared by those
others for that reason? The conception of property is
exclusiveness, the rights of exclusive possession, enjoyment and disposition. Take away these rights and you
take all that there is of property. Take away any of
them, force a participation in any of them and you take
property to that extent. 'These are commonplaces, but
at times--it may be always-commonplaces are our best
guides when rights are concerned. They are pertinent
to this case. The employment of one's wealth to construct or purchase facilities for one's business greater
than others possess constitutes no monopoly that does
not appertain to all property. Such facilities may give

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
McKENNA,

J., dissenting.

234 U. S

advantages and, it may be, power; so does all property
and in proportion to its extent. It may well then, be
asked-What extent of trade advantages, what degree
of power in purchasing, what superiority in facilities of
transportation or disposition of articles may be grounds
of the exercise of congressional control? If the owner of
a small oil well may be given rights in the facilities of
the appellee companies, why may not the owner of a
small business be given rights in the facilities of a larger
business, if Congress sees fit to say that the public welfare
requires the gift? Can any privilege be claimed for oil
that cannot be claimed for other commodities? May a
jobber of merchandise in Washington who conducts a
trade in Baltimore and other places and owns special
facilities for the transportation of his merchandise, be
compelled to share them with competitors who may not
be able to afford as ample ones and in consequence be
forced to sell their property to him at a disadvantage?
Or, recurring to the illustration of W. W. Cargill Co. v.
Minnesota, can one who erects elevators for the storage
of grain of his own raising (such instances exist) and uses
it as well for grain of his purchase (there are more of such
instances), be compelled to share their advantage with
other growers or purchasers of -grain? The advantages
of his situation are quite as manifest as the advantages
the appellees enjoy and the effect on interstate commerce
transportation as marked. Upon the same principle, one
who builds a railroad to a coal field or to a forest must
share it with other owners in the field or forest if he ventures to purchase their productions. Such is the principle
of the present decision. Under it what attribute of private property is left?
Let us not exaggerate the conditions or by form of
statement put out of view essential elements. What
duress is employed that is not employed when terms are
exacted as a condition of the use of property? Or, rather,

THE PIPE LINE CASES.
234

U. S.

McKENNA, J., dissenting.

and more accurately, what duress is used except the exclusion of others from the use of property which they do'not
own? There were no prior or present rights in other
owners of oil wells to the use of the lines of the appellee
companies. They contributed nothing to the construction of the lines and their exclusion from their use is the
exclusion resulting from the separate ownership of property as distinguished from rights of community ownership.
There is quite a body of opinion which considers the
individual ownership of property economically and politically wrong and insists upon a community of all that is
profit-bearing. This opinion has its cause, among other
cannes, in the power-may I say the duress?-of wealth.
If it-accumulates 51% of political power, may it put its
conviction into law and justify the law by the advancement of the public welfare by destroying the monopoly
and mastery of individual ownership?
I submit, with deference, that it is misleading to say
that the use of the lines by other oil owners was permitted
only on terms dictated by the companies, and that through
such dictation they "became masters of the fields without
owning them." And I take it if the companies had not
made purchases Qf oil or refused offers of oil, they would
not be held subject to the act. Such is the situation of
the Uncle Sam Company and the ground of decision in
regard to that company. It is not held to be within the
act. It seems to be minimized and considered not big
enough for the application of the law,. and yet it owns and
operates a pipe line from the oil fields of Oklahoma to its
refineries in Kansas. The extent to which it purchases oil
from producers, if it does so at all, does not appear from
the record. It may be supposed that if it venture to make
purchases of oil it will lose its immunity. But why its
exemption? Why is the fact of purchases of oil important? Is it not the concerm of the small oil owners to get
to market? Indeed, is not that the advantage they get

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
McKENNA,

J., dissenting.

234 U. S.

from the law thereby being able to break away from the
supposed subjection to, and "duress" of, the superior
advantages of the appellee companies? The result which
the amendment under review was intended to effect was
beneficial to the public welfare. The query then occurs,
May all of the other-oil companies give up their purchases
and, if they should, will they thereby get the freedom
of the Uncle Sam Company? What then of the owners
of oil? It may be they cannot sell their oil at all-the
local market is taken from them-a distant market is not
possible for them. Is not the public welfare concerned
for them in such situation? Must they remain in it dependent upon the richer owner balancing the advantages
of remaining under' the law or becoming free from it?
Or may the power which has brought them to such situation extricate them from it by one more act of legislation
in the public interest and to take from the companies their
mastery of the fields of production?
United States v. Delaware & Hudson Co., 213 U. S. 366,
opens a curious speculation and illustrates the effect of
the power exercised in the legislation under review. The
appellee companies, the decision is, engaging in interstate
commerce' may be declared common carriers and made
to carry the products of. others as well as their own products. Then, having been made common carriers, under
the authority of the cited case, they can be forbidden to
carry their own products, and so by legal circumlocution
property legally devoted to the use of its owners is forbidden such use and devoted wholly to the use of others.
A queer outcome.
I have extended this discussion beyond.what I had intended. Much more, however, could be said and decisions adduced on the various elements of the case. Prophecies of the result of the principles of the decision could be
made which I am afraid could not be pronounced fanciful,
and projects whose shadows may even now be discerned

THE PIPE LINE CASES.
234 U. S.

McKENNA,

J., dissenting.

will plead a justification by the decision in these cases.
It is to be remembered that there are many jurisdictions
of legislation. It is to be remembered that there cannot
be one measure of control for Congress over private property and its uses and another measure of control for the
States. In other words, the power which Congress has in
its domain, the States have in their domain. Alarms,
however, are not arguments, and I grant that legislation
must be practical. But while making this concession,
and giving to the legislation in question the presumption of
constitutionality to which all legislation is entitled, I am
yet constrained to say that it transcends the limits of
the power of regulation and takes property without due
process of law.
As I have not the power of decision, I do not enter into
a discussion of the facts which distinguish the cases. It
may be that the judgment of the Commerce Court as
to the Standard Oil Company should be reversed because
the lines of the Company were common carriers before
their acquisition, and it may be that the Prairie Oil &
Gas Company was made a common carrier by the law
which created it. This, however, is in controversy.
I concur in the judgment as to the Uncle Sam Oil Company. From the judgments as to the other companies, I
dissent.

