OCTOBER TERM, 1913.

1 380

Syllabus.

234 U. S.

appropriate mode of litigating the question is by a suit in
equity challenging the right of the condemnor to enter
under the judgment of the court of eminent domain.
Vinegar Bend Lumber Co. v. Oak Grove & Georgetown
Railroad Co., 89 Mississippi, 84, 107, 108, 110, 112. Thus
it will be perceived that under the law of the State, as
declared by its court of last resort, the judgment of a
special court of eminent domain may be challenged by a
bill in equity upon the ground that the condemnation is
not for a public purpose. This being so, and the elements
of Federal jurisdiction being present, the litigation may,
of course, be had in a Federal court. One of the grounds
upon which the judgments are challenged in the present
bill is that the condemnation is not for a public purpose.
If this ground be well taken, as to which we intimate no
opinion, the judgments apparently confer upon the appellee a right in the appellant's right of way to which the
appellee is not entitled.
We conclude that the suit is one to remove a cloud from
title within the meaning of § 57 of the Judicial Code, and is
cognizable in the court below, although neither of the
parties resides in that district.
Decree reversed.

GILSON v. UNITED STATES..
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 207.

Submitted May 6, 1914.-Decided June 8, 1914.

The settled rule of this court that the concurring findings of two courts
below will not be disturbed, unless shown to be clearly erroneous,
applies where the evidence is taken before an examiner. Texas &
Patfic Railway Co. v. Louisiana RailroadCommission, 232 U. S.338.

GILSON v. UNITED STATES.

234 U. S.

Opinion

of the Court.

Quore, as to what is the effect on a commuted homestead entry under
§ 2301, Rev. Stat., of an agreement for alienation made after entry
and before commutation; and see Bailey v. Sanders, 228 U. S. 603.
185 Fed. Rep. 484, affirmed.

Tim facts, which involve the validity of a patent of
the United States for a tract of land issued under a homestead entry, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Wade H. Ellis, Mr. Ira P. Englehart, Mr. Allen S.
Davis and Mr. GeorgeB. Holden for appellant:
The evidence having all been taken before a special
master, the rule that appellate courts will give great
weight to findings of trial courts on questions of fact
does not apply.
After Landis had made his homestead filing, he had a
right to make an agreemient to sell the land and then
commute his entry and purchase the land. He did not
make final proof under the homestead statute, but purchased the land under § 2301 of Revised Statutes. Adams
v. Church, 193 U. S. 510; Williamson v. United States, 207
U. S. 425.
.The evidence is insufficient to justify the conclusion
that there was any agreement between Landis and Gilson
before Landis filed on the land that Landis was to sell
the land to Gilson. Even though Landis was guilty of
fraud, there is insufficient evidence that Gilson was a
party thereto to authorize cancellation of patent after
title thereto has vested in him.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Knaebel and Mr. S. W.
Williams for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an equity action brought by the United States
against appellant to cancel a patent issued to one Daniel

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

Landis for a tract of one hundred and twenty acres of
land in Yakima County, in the State of Washington,
afterwards conveyed by Landis to appellant. Landis
made a homestead entry in November, 1899, under
§ 2289 of the Revised Statutes as amended by act of
March 3, 1891, c. 561, 26 Stat. 1095, 1098; in November,
1902, he commuted the entry and purchased the land under
§ 2301 as amended by the same act; and in July, 1903,
he received a patent. Upon the day on which he made
the commutation entry he gave a mortgage upon the land
to appellant, and from that date ceased to live upon it,
and as soon as the patent was issued he made the conveyance to appellant. The grounds of the action were: that
Landis did- not enter the land in good faith, but for the
purpose and with the intent of acquiring title to it for
appellant and at his instigation; that the residence and
improvements were not sufficient; that the affidavit
upon which Landis' original application was allowed was
false and fraudulent, in that he did not make the application in good faith for the purpose of actual settlement
and cultivation, but made it for the benefit of appellant,
with whom the entryman was then acting in collusion
for the purpose of giving to appellant the benefit of the
entry; that the proof of settlement and cultivation offered
in support of the commutation entry was false and fraudulent, in that the entryman had not made settlement
in November, 1899, or at any other time, had not built
a house, except a partially completed shanty, had not
resided on the land, and had not broken thirteen acres
and cultivated three acres as alleged in his final proofs;
and that the statement made in his affidavit that he had
not alienated any part of the land was also false, in that
he had alienated or agreed to alienate it to appellant.
The trial court found that Landis made the homestead
entry at appellant's instigation and for his benefit; that
the evidence on which the register and receiver allowed

GILSON v. UNITED STATES.
234 U. S.

.383

Opinion of the Court.

the commutation entry included sworn statements by
Landis and two witnesses to the effect that the claimant
had lived continuously on the land and made improvements, including a corral and chicken house, and that he
had cultivated three acres for three seasons; that this
was a false statement, there having been no plowing or
cultivation except during the third year; that the land
was dry sage-brush land, not productive without irrigation; that Landis made only a pretence of settlement
and a show of improving the' land, in order to satisfy
the scruples of the witnesses upon whom he depended
to make final proof; and further, that appellant was
cognizant of every detail of the transaction from its inception to the issuance of patent, and, indeed, directed
the proceedings at every step, and therefore could not
claim to be a bona fide purchaser.
The Circuit Court of Appeals concurred in this view
of the facts, and therefore sustained the conclusion reached
by the trial court that the patent should be canceled, without finding it necessary to consider the question of law,
suggested by appellant,. that inasmuch as final proof was
not made under § 2291 but under § 2301 of the Revised
Statutes, the fact that the claimant had made an agreement before commutation to, convey the land to another
would not affect the validity of the title obtained from
the United States, because § 2301 prescribes as requisite
to commutation, proof only that the entryman has made
settlement, cultivation, and residence for fourteen months,
and does not require him to make oath that he has not
alienated any portion of the land. The decree was affirmed
(185 Fed. Rep. 484), arnd the present appeal was taken.
Upon the question of fact as to the fraudulent nature
of the proof upon which the commutation entry was
allowed, we have the concurring findings of two courts,
which, according to the settled rule, will not be disturbed
by this court unless clearly shown to be erroneous. Stuart

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

v. Hayden, 169 U. S. 1, 14; Towson v. Moore, 173 U. S.
17, 24; Dun v. Lumbermen's Credit Assoc., 209 U. S. 20,
23; Washington Securities Co. v. United States, ante, p. 76.
In behalf of appellant it is urged that this rule does not
apply where the evidence is taken before an examiner,
as was done in this case. The rule, however, is subject
to no such exception; indeed, prior to the adoption of
the new Equity Rules (226 U. S., Appendix, Rule 46), the
evidence in equity actions'was usually taken before a
master or examiner. And in Texas & Pacific Ry. v.
Louisiana Railroad Commission, 232 U. S. 338, where the
findings of the special master who heard the testimony
were set aside by the Circuit Court, and the conclusions
of that court were concurred in by the Circuit Court of
Appeals, we deemed the case a proper one for applying
the general rule.
In the present case, not only does the argument submitted in behalf of appellant fail to show clear ground for
disturbing the concurring findings of the two courts,
but it raises no reasonable doubt of their correctness.
This renders it unnecessary to deal with the question
raised as to the effect of an agreement for alienation made
after entry and before commutation. However, it is
settled adversely to the contention of appellant by our
recent decision in Bailey v. Sanders, 228 U. S. 603, 608.
Decree affirmed.

