PORT RICHMOND FERRY v. HUDSON COUNTY.
234 U. S.

317

Syllabus.

PORT RICHMOND AND BERGEN POINT 1FERRY
COMPANY v. BOARD OF CHOSEN FREEHOLDERS OF HUDSON COUNTY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF ERRORS AND, APPEALS OF THE
STATE OF NEW JERSEY.

No. 225. Argued March 4, 1914.-Decided June 8, 1914.
At common law the right to maintain a public ferry lies in franchise.
In England such a ferry could not be set up without the King's license,
and, in this country, the right has been made the subject of legislative
grant.
Transportation of persons and property from one State to another by
ferry is interstate commerce and subject to regulation by Congress,
and it is beyond the competency of the States to impose direct burdens thereon; Congress- not having acted on the subject, however,
the States may exercise a measure of regulatory power not inconsistent with the Federal authority and not actually burdening, or
interfering with, interstate commerce.
A State has the power to establish boundary ferries, not a part of a continuous interstate carrier system, and iegulate the rates to be charged
from its shores, subject to the paramount authority of Congress
over interstate commerce; and, even though there might be a difference in the rate of ferriage from one side of the stream as compared with the rate charged from the other side.
Questions in respect to ferries such as the one involved in this case,
generally imply transportation for a short distance, generally between two specified points, unrelated to other transportation, thus
presenting situations essentially local and requiring regulation according to local conditions.
The absence of Federal action in such a case does not presuppose that
the public interest is unprotected from extortion.
A State being able to exercise the power to regulate ferries, it follows
that it may not derogate from the similar authority of another State;
its regulating power therefrom extends only to transactions within its
own territory and to ferriage from its own shores.
Rates of ferriage fixed by one State from its own shore on a boundary
ferry do not preclude the other State from fixing other rates if reasonable with respect to the ferry maintained on its side.
Where the state court has not construed an ordinance fixing rates

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

234 U. S.

of ferriage on a boundary ferry as requiring the issuing of round trip
tickets, and this court does not so construe it, the ordinance may
be valid as limiting the amount which may be charged if such trip
tickets are issued; 'and so held in this case. Qucere as to whether
a State may require round trip tickets to be issued on a boundary
ferry.
S2 N. J. Law, 536, affirmed.

THE facts, which involve the power of a State, or a
municipality acting under its authority, to establish rates
of transportation on ferries plying between one of its ports
*and a port Of another State, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Frank Bergen for plaintiff in error:
A State cannot prescribe rates to be charged by a person
or corporation operating an interstate ferry not in connection with a railroad, because. a ferry across an interstate
stream is an instrument of interstate commerce; the transportation of passengers, vehicles, horses and cattle from
one State to another is interstate commerce; prescribing
rates'for such transportation is a direct regulation of interstate commerce; and the power to regulate directly commerce among the States can be exercised only by authority
of Congress. Covington Bridge Co. v. Kentucky, 154 U. S.
204; Covington Elevated R. R. Co. v. Kentucky, 154 U. S.
224.
A ferry operated in connection with a railroad and
carrying passengers who arrive at the ferry by rail, and
also passengers who arrive at the ferry otherwise, is not
subject to regulation as to its rates by authority of a
State. N. Y. Central Case, 74 N. J. Law, 367; 76 N. J.
Law, 664; 80 N. J. Law, 305; and see internationalTransit
Co. v. Sault Ste. Marie, 194 Fed. Rep.,522; Charles River
Bridge v. Warren Bridge, 11 Pet. 420, 620; Gloucester
Ferry Case, 114 U. S. 196.
States have indeed exercised control in some instances
over commerce by means of interstate ,ferries and bridges

PORT RICHMOND FERRY v. HUDSON COUNTY.
2.34 U. S.

319

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

since the Federal Constitution was adopted, and there are

expressions in a few opinions of this court that have been
supposed to recognize the authority of the States to do so
(see Fanning v. Gregoire, 16 How. 524; Conway v. Taylor,
1 B1. 603; Wiggins Ferry Co. v. East St. Louis, 107 U. S.
365), but there is no decision of this court to that effect.
Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 203, does not support this,
although sometimes cited to that effect, and see St. Clair
County v. Interstate Transfer Co., 192 U. S. 454; Covington
Bridge Co. v. Kentucky, 154 U. S. 204; N. Y. Cent. R. R.
Co. v. Hudson County, 227 U. S. 248; Wabash Ry. Co. v.
Illinois, 118 U. S. 557.

Nearly every important instrument of interstate commerce was created by authority of the States; but that
fact does not justify or support the conclusion that commerce carried on by tho.e instruments may be directly
regulated by the States. Covington Bridge Co. v. Kentucky,
supra, at p. 219; New York v. New Jersey Nay. Co., 106
N. Y. 28.
The States may make and enforce regulations that
indirectly and in minor particulars affect interstate commerce until Congress takes action, after that, as to all
matters covered by congressional action, state regulations must give way. Gloucester Ferry Case, supra, at
p. 214; Covington Bridge Co. v. Kentucky, supra;. Robbins
v. Shelby Taxing District, 120 U. S. 489; Minnesota Rate
Cases, 230 U. S. 352, 398-412.
For cases in New Jersey in which the authority of the
State to prescribe rates to be charged by owners of interstate ferries has been considered, see State v. Freeholdersof
Hudson, 23 N. J. Law, 206, aft'd, 24 N. J. Law, 718;
New York Central Case, 74 N. J. Law, 367; 76 N. J. Law,
664, 679; 227 U. S. 248.
The history of the commerce clause of the Constitution
confirms the opinion that ir, was intended to transfer the

power to regulate directly foreign commerce and commerce

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

among the States of all kinds and by every means, from
the States to the National Government. See. letters by
Madison to Cabell (1829), and to Davis (1832); Letters
and Writings of Madison, vol. iv, pp. 14 and 247; Curtis'
Const. Hist. U. S., vol. 1, p. 231, note; Elliot's Debates,
vol. 1, p. 115, ed. 1876; Webster's Works, vol. vi, p. 9,
8th ed. 1854; 9 Wheat. at p. 226, and 12 Wheat. at p. 445.
If the power to regulate foreign commerce was transferred to Congress by the Constitution, it cannot be-denied
that power to regulate interstate commerce was also transferred at the same time. Story's Constitution, § 1065;
Crutcher v. Kentucky, 141 U. S. 47, 57; West. Un. Tel. Co.
v. Kansas, 216 U. S. 1. Rev. Stat., § 2792, evidently relates
to ferries between points, in Canada and Mexico and the
United States, but § 4426 applies to all ferryboats, and
see § 4400; Hall v. De Cuir, 95 U. S. 485, 488.
Mr. James J. Murphy for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE HUGHES delivered the opinion of the court.

The plaintiff in error, Port Richmond and Bergen
Point Ferry Company, was incorporated in 1848 (c. 306)
by special act of the legislature of New *Yorkfor the purpose of maintaining a ferry across the Kill von Kull from
Port Richmond, Staten Island, New York, to Bergen
Point, Hudson County, New Jersey.' This act prescribed
rates of ferriage as did also the amendatory acts of 1857
(c. 692) and 1868 (c. 778).
The ferry is not operated in connection with any railroad.
In July, 1905, the Board of Chosen Freeholders of the
County of Hudson, New Jersey, passed two resolutions
1See also Laws of New York, 1857, chap.. 692; 1860, chap. 266;
1864, chap. 290; 1868, chap. 778; 1873, chap. 300; 1881, chap. 652.

PORT RICHMOND FERRY v. HUDSON COUNTY.
234 U. S.

321

Opinion of the Court.

fixing the rates to be taken at the ferry of this company
within the County of Hudson for the transportation of
foot passengers for single trips to the New York terminal,
and for round trips to that terminal and return, respectively. This action was taken under the authority ofan
act of the legislature of New Jersey passed in 1799, providing as follows: "That the board of chosen freeholders
shall be, and they hereby are empowered and directed
to fix the rates to be taken at the several ferries within
their respective counties, and the same, from time to
time, to revise, alter, amend, or make anew at their discretion." Comp. Stat. (N. J.) p. 2308. On certiorari, the
Supreme Court of the State of New Jersey sustained the
validity of these resolutions against the objection that
they were repugnant to the commerce clause of the Federal Constitution (80 N. J. Law, 614) and its judgment
was affirmed by the Court of Errors and Appeals. 82
N. J. Law, 536. This writ of error is prosecuted.
The plaintiff in error contends that the action of the
board is void for the reason that the transportation is
interstate and the fixing of rates therefor is a direct regulation of interstate commerce.
At common law, the right to maintain a public ferry
lies in franchise; in England such a ferry could not be
set up without the King's license, and, in this country, the
right has been made the subject of legislative grant.
Blissett v. Hart, Willes, 508; Fay, Petitioner, 15 Pick. 243,
249, 253; Mayor &c. of New York v. Starin, 106 N. Y. 1, 10,
11; 3 Kent's Com. 458; 2 Washburn, Real Prop., 4th ed.,
292. The States have been accustomed to grant such
franchises not only for ferries wholly intrastate but also
for those to be operated from their shores to other States.
Cooley, Const. Lim. 740. They have fixed the rates for
such ferriage; and this has been done both directly by
the legislature and also through designated courts and
local boards acting under legislative sanction. The pracVOL. ccxxxiv-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

tice has had continuous illustration in a great variety
of instances from the foundation of the Government to
the present day.'
The Court of Errors and Appeals of New Jersey in the
case of Chosen Freeholders of Hudson County v. The State
(1853), 4 Zab. 718, sustained the authority of the board
to prescribe ferry rates between New Jersey and New
York. Speaking through Elmer, J., the court thus described conditions existing at the time of the passage of
the above-mentioned act of 1799 and its purpose: "When
the act was passed, long before the invention of steamboats, ferries were generally the property of one or two
individuals, established for the public convenience and
private gain, by the owners of the shore, sometimes by
virtue of a grant or law, and sometimes without any public
authority. The owner or keeper resided on the one bank
or the other of the river over which the ferry passed, and
kept his boats and other apparatus where he resided. The
ferry was commonly known and designated by the name
of the place from which it started, and where such owner
resided, as Paulus Hook ferry; or from the name of the
I A few of these instances may be cited:
New York.-Across Lake Champlain: Laws of 1803, chap. 37; 1810,
chap. 61; 1812, chap. 60. (These are referred to in the argument of
counsel in Oibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1, 97; see 3 C. R. & G. Webster
ed. Laws of New York, p. 321; 6 Websters & Skinner ed., p. 16; id.,
p. 394.) See also Laws of 1831, chap. 105; 1847, chap. 288; 1886,
chap. 674; 1901, chap. 442; 1907, chap. 392. Between New York and
New Jersey: Laws of 1850, chap. 314; 1870, chap. 731.
Vermont.-Across Lake Champlain: Laws of 1799, p. 63; 1801, p. 72;
1820, chap. 115; 1890, chap. 116; 1896, chap. 298.
New Hampshire.-Across Connecticut River: Laws of 1863, chap.
-2822; 1867, chap. 86.
Missouri.-Mississippi River: Laws of 1855, p. 516; 1870, p. 231.
Des Moines River: Laws. of 1855, p. 517. Missouri River: Laws of
1855, p. 229; 1863-64, p. 312.
Nebraska.-Ccmpiled Statutes of 1907, § 3549.

PORT RICHMOND FERRY v. HUDSON COUNTY. 323
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

owner or keeper, as Dunk's ferry, Corriel's ferry, etc.
In many cases, where the river was not too wide, a bell
or horn, or some other signal was established on the side
of the river opposite to that where the owner lived, so
that persons coming there who desired to pass over, could
make known their wishes,. Probably but few, if any of
the keepers, had a boat constantly running, or started
at any particular hour. In some cases, there were ferry
owners on both sides of the river; but the ferry or ferries
on each side 'were considered and spoken of as distinct
ferries, and had distinct owners or keepers. This was
the case with most, if not all, the ferries between Philadelphia and what is now called Camden; and the ferries
on each side were regulated and governed by the laws of
the State in which such owner or keeper resided. Sail
and row-boats, and flats or scows, were the vessels in use,
as is manifest from the act itself. . . .- The act meant
to authorize, and did authorize the boards of freeholders
in the several counties, to regulate the fares to be taken
at the ferry situate within that county; that is, at the
ferry establishment of the owner or keeper.
Even if it might happen, upon this construction, that
one board might establish one set of rates at one side, and
another board another set on the other side, or that each
State might have different regulations, where the ferry
was over one of the rivers forming the boundary between
this and another State, I do not see that there would be
any important conflict of authority. Each power regulated
what was done within its own jurisdiction, and left to
others to regulate what was done in theirs. Existing
ferries between this State and New York, and this State
and Pennsylvania are now, in numerous instances, regulated by the laws of this State, without the occurrence of
any difficulty. .
. .- Without deeming it necessary
to go over and specially refer to the different acts . .
it is sufficient to say, that they show a course of legisla-

324

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

tion, commencing in 1714, and continued till near the
passage of the act of 1799, by which the ferries over the
waters dividing this State from the adjoining States, were
regulated by the laws of New Jersey, in those cases where
To
ferry establishments were within this State. .
effect this object" (i. e. of the act) "the word ferries must
be interpreted to mean, what in those laws it had obviously
-included, ferries the owners or keepers of which resided
in this State, or which had one of their termini where fares
were demanded, in this State, and not merely ferries
in the technical meaning, of an entire passage across a
river or other water. . . . If set up without public
authority, it" (the ferry) "was liable at any time to be
stopped, or in the discretion of the legislature to be reguIt is sufficient to authorize these rates,
lated.
that it is a public ferry, and that there is no law prescribing rates for it, inconsistent with the exercise of the power
by the board of chosen freeholders." Supra, pp. 721-724,
726. This decision was followed by the state court in the
present case.'
In view of the extended consideration which the decisions of this court bearing upon the questions involved
have received in recent opinions (St. Clair County v. Interstate Transfer Co., 192 U. S. 454; N. Y. C. & H. R. R. R.
Co. v. Board of Chosen Freeholders, 227 U. S. 248), it is
not necessary to review them at length. The authority
of the State to grant franchises for ferries to be operated
from its shores across boundary waters was distinctly
recognized in Fanning v. Gregoire, 16 How. 524; Conway
v. Taylor's Executor, 1 Black, 603; and Wiggins Ferry Co.
I As to the views of other state courts upon this subject, see People
v. Babcock, .11 Wend. 586; Newport v. Taylor, 16 B. Mon. 699; Marshall
v. Grimes, 41 Mississippi, 27; Carroll v. Campbell, 108 Missouri, 550;
Memphis v. Overton, 3 Yerg. 387, 390; Burlington Ferry Co: v. Davis, 48
Iowa, 133; Tugwell v. Eagle Pass Ferry Co., 74 Texas, 480; State v..
Faudre, 54 W. Va. 122; Chilvers v. People, 11 Michigan, 43.

PORT RICHMOND FERRY v HUDSON COUNTY.
234 U. S.

325

Opinion of the Court.

v. East St. Louis, 107 U. S. 365. While in Fanning v.
Gregoire, supra, the plaintiff's license for a ferry across
the Mississippi river from Dubuque, Iowa, was held under
the terms of the grant not to be exclusive as against the
subsequent licensee, the court said that the commercial
power of Congress did not 'interfere with the police power
of .the States in granting ferry licenses.' In Conway v.
Taylor's Executor, supra, the court upheld a judgment
which restrained the appellants (the owners of a ferry from
Cincinnati, Ohio, to Newport, Kentucky) from conducting
the ferry from the Kentucky shore to Ohio in violation
of the rights of the. appellees under their Kentucky franchise. Referring to the latter, the court said (p. 631):
"The franchise is confined to the transit from the shore
of the State. The same rights which she claims for herself she concedes to others.

.

.

..

It was shown in the

argument at bar that similar laws exist in most, if not all,
the States bordering upoEL those streams.

They exist

in other States of the Union bounded by navigable waters." With respect to 'ordinary, commercial navigation'
the authority of the appellants to transport persons and
property from the Kentucky shore was undoubted. The
owners of the Kentucky franchise, it was said, had no
right to exclude or restrain those who were prosecuting
'the business of commerce in good faith, without the
regularity or purposes of ferry trips'; but, as the appellants' boat was run 'openly and avowedly as a ferry-boat,'
as 'that was her business,' the injunction was sustained.
After referring to the commerce clause, the opinion concluded, (p. 634): "Undgubtedly, the States, in conferring
ferry rights, may pass laws so infringing the commercial
power of the nation that it would be the duty of this court
to annul or control them. . . .- There has been now
nearly three-quarters of a century of practical interpreta-

tion of the Constitution. Ddring all that time, as before,
the Constitution had its birth, the States have exercised

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

the power to establish and regulate ferries; Congress never.
We have sought in vain for any act of Congress which
involves the exercise of this power.-That the authority
lies within the scope of that 'immense mass' of undelegated powers which 'are reserved to the States respectively,' we think too clear to admit of doubt." These
cases were cited with approval in 'Wiggins Ferry Co. v.
East St. Lou(s, supra. There, the ferry company was an
Illinois corporation and held a franchise granted by the
legislature of that State for the operation of a ferry from
East St. Louis, Illinois, to St. Louis, Missouri. The payment of a license tax imposed upon the company in Illinois, for the privilege of conducting the ferry, was resisted under the commerce clause, but the contention was
overruled, the court holding that "the levying of a tax
upon vessels or other water-craft or the exaction of a license. fee by the State within which the property subject
to the exaction has its situs, is not a regulation of commerce
within the meaning of the Constitution." (Id. p. 373.)
It is manifest, however, that the transportation of
persons and property from one State to another is none
the less interstate commerce because conducted by ferry;
and it is n6t open to question that ferries maintained for
that purpose are subject to the regulating power of Congress. It necessarily follows that whatever may properly be regarded as a direct burden upon interstate commerce, as conducted by ferries operating between States,
it is beyond the competency of the States to impose. This
was definitely decided in Gloucester Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvania, 114 U. S.196. The Commonwealth of Pennsylvania
had imposed a tax upon the ferry company, based upon the
estimated value of its capital stock, upon the ground
that it was doing business within the State. The company was incorporated in New Jersey and maintained
a ferry from Gloucester in that State to Philadelphia.
Save for the wharf that it leased at the latter place, its

PORT RICHMOND FERRY v. HUDSON COUNTY.
234 U. S.

327

Opinion of the Court.

property, including its boats, had its situs in New Jersey;
and its entire business consisted in ferrying. The tax upon
the 'receiving and landing; of passengers and freight at
the wharf in Philadelphia,' which was a nedessary incident to the transportation across the Delaware river,
was a tax upon that transportation; and in this view the
tax was held to be void as one laid upon interstate commerce. "The only interference of the State with the
landing and receiving of passengers and freight, which is
permissible," said the court, "is confined to such measures as will prevent confusion among the vessels, and
collision between them, insure their safety and convenience, and facilitate, the discharge or receipt of their
passengers and freight, which fall under the general head
of port regulations." (Id. p. 206.) It was said that the
statement of Chief Justice! Marshall in Gibbons v. Ogden,
9 Wheat. 1, 203, had relation to ferries entirely within
the State. "Ferries," continued the court, (p. 216), "between one of the States and a foreign country cannot be
deemed, . . . beyond the control of Congress under
the commercial power . . . neither are ferries over
waters separating States."' And it was pointed out that
Congress had passed various laws respecting international
and interstate ferries, the validity of which was not open
to question [Rev. Stat., §§ 2792, 4233 (Rule, 7), 4370,
4426].
But, in view of the nature of the subject and the diversified regulation which was necessary, it was recognized
that the States were entitled to exercise a measure of
regulatory power not inconsistent with the Federal authority. The court said: "It is true that, from the
earliest period in the history of the government, the
States have authorized and regulated ferries, not only
over waters entirely within their limits, but over waters
separating them; and it may be conceded that in many
respects the States can more advantageously manage

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

such inter-State ferries than the General Government;
and that the privilege of keeping a ferry, with a right to
take toll for passengers and freight, is a franchise grantable
by the State, to be exercised within such limits and under
such regulations as may be required for the safety, comfort and convenience of the public. Still the fact remains
that such a ferry is a means, and a necessary means, of
commercial intercourse between the States bordering on
their dividing waters, and it must, therefore, be conducted without the imposition by the States of taxes
or other burdens upon the commerce between them.
Freedom from such impositions does not, of course, imply

exemption from reasonable charges, as compensation
for the carriage of persons, in the way of tolls or fares, or
from the ordinary taxation to which other property is
subjected, any more than like freedom of transportation
on land implies such exemption."

(Id. p. 217.)

In Covington Bridge Co. v. Kentucky, 154 U. S.204,
the question related to the power of the State of Kentucky
to regulate tolls upon an interstate bridge built pursuant
to the concurrent action of Kentucky and Ohio. The
power was denied under the commerce clause. Reviewing
the authorities, the opinion was expressed that the principle involved was identical with that applied in Wabash
&c. Railway Co. v. Illinois, 118 U. S. 557, with respect
to interstate railroad rates, and that (at least in the absence of mutual action) it was impossible for either State
to fix a tariff of charges. It was said that it did not follow
that because a State might 'authorize a ferry or bridge
from its own territory to that of another State' it might
'regulate the charges upon such bridge or ferry.' It was
pointed out, however, that the State of Kentucky, by
the statute in question attempted 'to reach out and secure
for itself a right, to prescribe a rate of toll applicable not
only to persons crossing from Kentucky to Ohio, but from
Ohio to Kentucky,' a right which practically nullified

PORT RICHMOND FERRY v. HUDSON COUNTY.
234 U. S.

329

Opinion of the Court.

'the corresponding right cf Ohio to fix tolls from her own
State.' (Id. p. 220.) And this was an adequate basis
for the judgment. Four of the justices ol the court, concurring in the judgment, announced their view. that 'the
several States have the power to establish and regulate
ferries and bridges, and the rates of toll thereon, whether
within one State, or between two adjoining States, subject
to the paramount authority of Congress over interstate
commerce.' (Id. p. 223.)
In Louisville &c. Ferry Co. v. Kentucky, 188 U. S. 385,
where a Kentucky corporation conducting a ferry across
the Ohio rivet between Kentucky and Indiana, held ferry
franchises from both States, it was decided that the
franchise from Indiana could not be taxed by Kentucky.
The court said that the franchises were distinct; that
each was 'property entitled to the protection of the law-'and that the Indiana franchise must be regarded as an
incorporeal hereditament having its situs in that State
and hence as beyond the jurisdiction of Kentucky. The
case of St. Clair County v. Interstate Transfer Co., 192
U. S. 454, involved the right of a county in Illinois to
recover statutory penalties for carrying on, without a
ferry license, the transportation of cars across the Mississippi river between points in Illinois and Missouri.
Conceding, arguendo, that the police power of a State
extends 'to the establishment, regulation and licensing
of ferries on a navigable stream,, being the boundary between two States,' it was field that the business of transporting railroad cars was not a ferry business in the proper
sense; and that the requirements of the ordinance in
question made it a direct burden upon interstate commerce. The ordinance was therefore held to be invalid.
In New York Central R. R. Co. v. Board of Chosen Freeholders, 227 U. S. 248, the question corcerned the authority of the New Jersey board to fix rates for a ferry
between Weehawken, New Jersey, and New York City.

OCTOBER TERM, 191:,.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

It appeared that the ferry was operated in connection
with a railroad and it was concluded that the action of
Congress with respect thereto (Act to Regulate Commerce, February 4, 1887, § 1, c. 104, 24 Stat. 379) hadthe effect of freeing the subject from state control.
Coming then to the question now presented-whether
a State may fix reasonable rates for ferriage from its
shore to the shore of another State,-regard must be had
to the basic principle involved. That principle is, as repeatedly declared, that as to those subjects which require
a general system or uniformity of regulation the power
of Congress is exclusive; that, in other matters, admitting
of diversity of treatment according to the special requirements of local conditions, the States may act within their
respective jurisdictions until Congress sees fit to act;
and that, when Congress does act, the exercise of its authority overrides all conflicting state legislation. Cooley v.
Board of Wardens, 12 How. 299, 319; Ex parte McNeil,
13 Wall. 236, 240; Welton v. Missouri, 91 U. S. 275, 280;
County of Mobile v. Kimball, 102 U. S. 691, 697; Gloucester Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvania, supra, p. 204; Bowman v.
Chicago &c. Railway Co., 125 U. S. 465, 481, 485; Gulf,
Colorado & Sante Fe Ry. Co. v. Hefley, 158 U. S. 98, 103,
104; Northern Pacific Ry. Co. v. Washington, 222 U. S.
370, 37S; Southern Ry. Co. v. Reid, 222 U. S. 424, 436;
Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352, 399, 400. It is this
principle that is applied in holding that a State may not
impose direct burdens upon interstate commerce, for this
is to say that the States may not directly regulate or
restrain that which from its nature should be under the
control of the one authority and be free from restrictionsave as it is governed by valid Federal rule. (Gloucester
F.erry Co. v. Pennsylvania, supra.) It was this principle
which governed the decision in Wabash &c. Railway Co.
v. Illinois, 118 U. S. 557, as to interstate railroad rates.
Considering the conditions of interstate railroad trans-

PORT RICHMOND FERRY v. HUDSON COUNTY. 331
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

portation, which might extend not only from one State
to another but through a, series of States, or across the
Continent, and the consequences which would ensue if
each State should undertake to fix rates for such portions
of continuous interstate hauls as might be within its territory, the conclusion was reached that 'this species of
regulation' was one 'which must be, if established at all,
of a general and national character' and could not be
'safely and wisely remitted to local'rules.' (Id. p. 577.)
But, in the case of ferries, we have a subject of a different
character. We dismiss from consideration those ferries
which are operated in connection with railroads, and cases,
if any, where the ferriage is part of a longer and continuous
transportation. Ferries, such as are involved in the present case are simply means of transit from shore to shore.
These have always been regarded as instruments of local
convenience which, for the proper protection of the public,
are subject to local regulation; and where the ferry is
conducted over a boundary stream, each jurisdiction with
respect to the ferriage from its shore has exercised this
protective power. There are a multitude of such ferries
throughout the country and, apart from certain rules as
to navigation, they have not engaged- the attention of
Congress. We also put on one side the question of prohibitory or discriminatory requirements, or burdensome
exactions imposed by the State, which may be said to
interfere with the guaranteed freedom of interstate intercourse or with constitutional rights of property. The
present question is simply one of reasonable charges. It is
argued that the mere fact that interstate transportation
is involved is sufficient to defeat the local regulation of
rates because, it is said, that it amounts to a regulation of
interstate commerce. But this would not be deemed a
sufficient ground for invalidating the local action without
considering the nature of- the regulation and the special
subject to which it relates. Quarantine and pilotage

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

regulations may be said to be quite as direct in their operation, but they' are not obnoxious when not in conflict with
Federal rules. The fundamental test, to which we have
referred, must be applied; and the question is whether,
with regard to rates, there is any inherent necessity for
a single'regulatory power over these numerous ferries
across boundary streams; whether, in view of the character
of the subject and the variety of regulation required, it is
one which demands the exclusion of local authority.
Upon this question, we can entertain no doubt. It is true
that in the case of a given ferry between two States there
might be a difference in the charge for ferriage, from one
side as compared. with that for ferriage from the other.
But this does not alter the aspect of the subject. The
question is still one With respect to a ferry which ,necessarily implies transportation for a short distance, almost
invariably between two points only, and unrelated to other
transportation. .It thus presents a situation essentially
local requiring regulation according to local conditions.
It has never been supposed that because of the absence
of Federal action the public interest was unprotected from
extortion and that in order to secure reasonable charges
in a myriad of such different local instances, exhibiting
an endless variety of circumstance, it would be necessary
for Congress to act directly or to establish for that purpose.
a Federal agency. The matter is illuminated by the consideration of this alternative for the point of the contention
is that, there being no Federal regulation, the ferry rates
are to -be deemed free from all control. The practical
advantages of having the matter dealt with by the States
are obvious and are illustrated by the practice of one hundred and twenty-five years. And in view of the character
of the subject, we find no sound objection to its continuance. If Congress at' any time undertakes to regulate
such rates, its action will of course control.
If the State may exercise this power, it necessarily

SAULT STE. MARIE v. INT'L TRANSIT CO.
234 U. S.

333

Syllabus.

follows that it may not, in its exercise, derogate from the
similar authority of another State. The state power can
extend only to the transactions within its own territory
and the ferriage from its own shore. It follows that the
fact that rates were fixed by New York did not preclude
New Jersey from establishing reasonable rates with. respect
to the ferry establishment maintained on its side.
With respect to the rates for round trips, we do not
construe the ordinance as requiring the company to issue
round-trip tickets at its office in New Jersey. We may
not look into the testimony and it does not appear that
such a construction has been placed upon the ordinance
by the state court. Viewed as a limitation upon rates
charged for such round-trip tickets, when sold by the
company in New Jersey, we think that the ordinance is
valid being one relating to the transactions of the company in New Jersey and the charges there enforced.
Whether it would be competent for the State, through
the local board, to require the company to issue roundtrip tickets, is a question not presented by the record, and
we express no opinion upon it.
The judgment is affirmed.
Affirmed.

CITY OF SAULT STE. MARIE v. INTERNATIONAL
TRANSIT COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT. OF MICHIGAN.
No. 323.

Argued March 20, 1914.-Decided June 8, 1914.

A State may not make commercial intercourse with another State or
a foreign country a matter of local privilege and require that it cannot be carried on without its consent, and to exact a license fee as
the price of that consent.

