OCTOBER TERM, 1913
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

234 U. S.

LOUISVILLE & NASHVILLE RAILROAD COMPANY v. HIGDON, DOING BUSINESS UNDER
THE NAME OF CRESCENT COAL COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF

KENTUCKY.
No. 322.

Submitted March 19, 1914.-Decided June 22, 1914.

Attempts to inject Federal questions into the record by filing amended
pleadings after the case has been remanded by the appellate court
come too late to lay the foundation for review by this court, Mutual
Life Insurance Co. 7. Kirchoff, 169 U. S. 103, except so far as the appellate court gives consideration to, and passes upon, such questions
when the case again comes before it. Miedreichv. Lauenstein,232
U. S. 236.
In this case held, that defendant had not been deprived of Federal rights
because the state court had refused to allow him to file an amended
pleading and relitigate a question already decided by setting up
alleged violations of IVederal rights.
The State has full authority over shipments purely intrastate, and an
averment that a service required at one point as to intrastate shipments might be required at other points in regard to interstate shipments only avers an indirect effect upon interstate commerce; and a
defendant carrier denied leave to file an amended pleading to that
effect is not deprived of rights secured by the commerce clause of the
Federal Constitution.
149 Kentucky, 321, affirmed.
THE

facts, which involve the validity under the due

process provision of the Fourteenth Amendment of the

Constitution of the United States of a judgment of the
state court for damages for refusal to transport coal between intrastate points, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Benjamin D. Warfield, Mr. Charles H. Moorman,
Mr. Malcolm Yeaman, Mr. Edward S. Jouet, Mr. William
A. Colston and Mr. Henry L. Stone for plaintiff in error:

LOUIS. & NASH. R. R. v. HIGDON.
234 U. S.

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The judgment of the Court of Appeals deprives the
plaintiff in error of the reasonable control of its property
and facilities used in the conduct of its business in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment. Am. and Eng. Ency.
158; C. & 0. Ry. Co. v. Hall, 136 Kentucky, 379; Constitution of Kentucky, §§ 214, 215; Clark Co. v. Lake Shore
R. R. Co., 11 I. C. C. 558; Dixon v. CentralR. R. of Georgia,
35 S. E. Rep. 369; Elkins v. Boston &c. R. R. Co., 28
N. H. 275; Elliott on Railroads, § 1466; Grand Trunk Ry.
Co. v. Michigan R. R. Comm., 231 U. S. 457; Hoover v.
Penna. R. R. Co., 156 Pa. St. 229; Harp v. Choctaw, 118
Fed. Rep. 169; Hutchinson on Carriers, §§ 59, 60, 144; Int.
Com. Comm. v. Balt. & Ohio R. R. Co., 145 U. S. 263;
Int. Com. Comm. v. Alabama Ry. Co., 69 Fed. Rep. 227;
Johnson v. Midland R. R. Co., 4 Exch. 367; Kansas Pac.
R. Co. v. Nichols, 19 Kansas, 247; Kentucky R. R. Commission v. L. & N. R. R. Co., 10 I. C. C. 173; Lake Shore
&c. Ry. Co. v. Smith, 173 U. S. 684; Lake Shore &c. Ry.
v. Ohio, 173 U. S. 285; Laurel Cotton Mills v. Gulf & S. I.
R. Co., 37 So. Rep. 134; Lee v. Burgess, 9 Bush, 652; L. &
N. R. R. Co. v. Kentucky, 105 Kentucky, 179; 108 Kentucky, 628; L. & N. R. R. Co. v. Cent. Stock Yards, 212
U. S. 132; Miner v. New York &c. R. R. Co., 11 I. C. C.
422; Moore on Carriers, p. 98; Oxlade v. N. E. R. Co.,
1 C. B. N. 454; Pitlock v. Wells, Fargo & Co., 109 Mass.
452; Pfister v. Cent. Pac. R. Co., 59 Am. Rep. 404; Santa
Fe &c. Ry. Co. v. Grant, :[08 Pac. Rep. 467; Ellis y.
Atlantic Coast Line, 12 L. R. A. (N. S.) 506; Tex. &
Pac. Ry. Co. v. Int. Com. Comm., 162 U. S. 197; Varble v.
Bigley, 14 Bush, 698; Wilson Produce Co. v. Penna. R. R.
Co., 14 I. C. C. 170; Wisconsin R. R. Co. v. Jacobson, 179
U. S. 287.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals in this case is
contrary to the Fourteenth Amendment because it requires plaintiff in error to perform a service at a rate that
does not afford reasonable compensation for such service.
VOL. ccxxxiv-38

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

Atlantic Coast Line v. North Carolina Corp. Comm., 206
U. S. 1; Attorney Generalv. Old Colony R. R. Co., 22 L. R,
A. 112; Chi., Mil. & St. P. Ry. Co. v. Minnesota, 134 U. S.
418; Dow v. Beidelman, 125 U. S. 680; Georgia R. R. Co.
v. Smith, 128 U. S. 179; Lake Shore &c. Ry. Co. v. Smith,
173 U. S. 684; Minn. & St. L. R. R. Co. v. Minnesota, 186
U. S. 257; Mo. Pac. Ry. Co. v. Nebraska, 164 U. S. 403;
RailroadCommission Cases, 116 U. S. 307; Smyth v. Ames,
169 U. S.466.
The decision of the Court of Appeals and §§ 214 and
215 of the constitution of Kentucky as construed by the
court in that decision impose an unreasonable burden
upon the interstate commerce of plaintiff in error, and
are therefore repugnant to the commerce clause of the
Federal Constitution. Atlantic Coast Line v. Wharton,
207 U. S. 328; Gloucester Ferry Co. v. Pennsylvania, 114
U. S. 196; Herndon v. Chicago &c. Ry. Co., 218 U. S. 135;
I. & N. R. R. Co. v. Eubank, 184 U. S. 27; McNeill v.
Southern Ry. Co., 202 U. S. 543; Mississippi R. R. Comm.
v. Ill. Cent. R. R. Co., 203 U. S. 305; St. Louis &c. Ry.
Co. v. Arkansas, 217 U. S. 136; West. Un. Tel. Co. v.
Pendleton, 122 U. S. 347.
Mr. James W. Clay, Mr. J. F. Clay and Mr. A. Y. Clay
for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTIcE DAY delivered the opinion of the court.
The defendant in error, Joe Higdon, doing business
under the name of the Crescent Coal Company, brought
suit in the Henderson Circuit Court, of Kentucky, to
recover damages for alleged loss because of the failure of
the Railroad Company to furnish him with cars at the
Keystone Mining & Manufacturing Company's mine
at Henderson, Kentucky, with which to perform certain
contracts which he had made and which he was prevented

LOUIS. & NASH. R. R. v. HIGDON.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

from fulfilling by the'refusal of the Railroad Company.
While the action was originally brought at law it was transferred upon motion of the plaintiff in error to the equity
docket. The decree of the Circuit Court dismissing the
petition was reversed in the Court of Appeals of Kentucky, and the case was remanded for a new trial in conformity to the opinion of that court (143 Kentucky, 73).
The case was again tried and a decree for Higdon for
damages was affirmed by the Court of Appeals (149 Kentucky, 321), and the case was brought here on writ of error.
A motion to dismiss the writ for want of jurisdiction was,
on December 16, 1912, postponed to the hearing upon the
merits.
From tha facts found and apparent in the record it
appears: Higdon; doing business as the Crescent Coal
Company, was engaged in buying and selling coal in the
City of Henderson, and the Railroad Company was a
common carrier having its main line running in and
through that city. It had a belt line and various spurs
and tracks leading 'from its main and belt lines into industrial plants in Henderson. The Keystone Company was
operating a coal mine in Henderson, which was connected with the main and belt lines of the plaintiff in
error's road by a spur which the latter operated and controlled. Higdon contracted with the Keystone Company
for 20,000 tons of coal to be delivered to him on the spur
track, and afterwards contracted with various plants
having spur connections to deliver coal in car-load lots at
certain prices, Thereafter he applied to the Railroad
Company to furnish him cars at the Keystone Company's
mine and to transport coal in them to other spurs at
Henderson, offering to pay therefor four dollars per car
or at the rate of about ten cents a ton, which he contended was according to the published rates of the Railroad Company. It refused to furnish him cars except at
the rate of fifty cents a ton, which Higdon declined, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

afterwards the Railroad Company informed him that it
would not furnish cars at any price. This action was
brought with the result which we have stated.
No Federal question was raised in the first trial or upon
the first appeal to the Kentucky Court of Appeals. The
alleged Federal questions are said to arise because of two
amended answers which the defendant in error tendered
and which the Circuit Court refused to permit it to file.
In its first amended answer the plaintiff in error alleged
that it had built side tracks and spurs from its main track
to certain industries in Henderson for the delivery and
receipt of freight to and from points beyond that city;
that it had constructed such a spur to the mine of the
Keystone Company, with the express understanding that
the plaintiff in error would not transport coal for the Keystone Company or for anyone else between that spur and
other spurs at Henderson, but that it should be used solely
for traffic coming into and going out of Henderson; that
it was not engaged and did not propose to engage in the
business of transportation as a common carrier between
industries at Henderson or any other station, or in transporting coal from the Keystone Company's mine to spur
tracks at Henderson, and that while it performed a switching service, it did so only when it preceded or followed
transportation beyond Henderson. It further alleged that
the service requested by Higdon was a transportation
service, which the Railroad Company declined to perform because it did not profess to and did not engage in
that business, and that it was not its duty as a common
carrier so to do or to furnish cars for such purpose. It
also alleged that its tariffs did not fix a rate for the movement of coal from the mine of the Keystone Company
to the spurs at Henderson, and that it did not offer by
such tariffs to perform such service; and that there was
no other demand for such service, and no other coal mine
at Henderson. And it. alleged that it was not its duty to

LOUIS. & NASH. R. R. v. HIGDON.
234 U. S.

Opbiion of the Court.

perform such service for four dollars per car or for any
other sum, but that a rate of fifty cents a ton, which was
the legal rate in effect for hauling coal from points .near
Henderson to that city and which was reasonable, would
have been a reasonable charge for the service requested
by Higdon, and that a smaller rate would not have been
adequate compensation therefor, and concluded that to
compel the Railroad Company to perform the service
asked by Higdon at four dollars per car ,or for a rate less
than fifty cents a ton would be to compel it to perform a
service which under the law it was not its duty to perform
and' at less than cost thereof and for less than the service
was worth, with the result of depriving the Railroad Company of its property without due process of law and denying it the equal protection of the law, contrary to the
Fourteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United
States.
In its second amended answer it set up, besides certain
of the allegations in the first amended answer to the effect
that it was not its duty to move freight between private
spurs, that its facilities at Henderson for delivering and
receiving freight were amply sufficient to accommodate,
the public; that it was engaged in interstate commerce,
and that to require the defendant to perform the service
asked by Higdon would impose upon it the duty of performing like services at other points on its line in Kentucky and would impose upon. it unreasonable, unjustifiable and unwarrantable duties which it as a common
carrier was not required to perform and would be a direct
and unreasonable and unwarrantable interference with
its interstate business and its duties as a carrier of interstate commerce, and would impose an unreasonable
burden upon interstate co.nerce contrary to § 8 of Art. I,
of the Constitution of the United States..
Had the Court of Appeals put its decision upon the
ground that the duty of the Circuit Court was simply to

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court,

234 U. S.

give effect to the judgment of the Court of Appeals by
enforcing the rights of the parties upon the priciples
settled by it in its first decision and that the attempt to
inject Federal questions into the record by amended
pleadings after the case was remanded did not seasonably
raise Federal questions reviewable by the Court of Appeals, the case would be ruled by Union Mutual Life Ins.
Co. v. Kirchoff, 169 U. S. 103, in which this court held
that such attempts to raise Federal questions came too
late to lay the foundation for review here. See also Yazoo
& Mississippi Valley Ry. Co. v. Adams, 180 U. S. 1;
Bonner v. Gorman, 213 U. S. 86.
The Court of Appeals of Kentucky in the opinion delivered in the second case did affirm the principle of the
binding character of its first decision, but as it gave consideration to the offered amended answers in their Federal
aspect and ruled concerning them, we have concluded not
to sustain the motion to dismiss, but to regard the Federal
questions as so far passed upon by the Court of Appeals
as to present a case reviewable here. Miedreich v. Lauenstein, 232 U. S. 236, 243.
Looking to the opinion of the Court of Appeals in the
second case, as we may properly do, to determine the nature of its ruling concerning the offered amended answers,
we find that it held that the first part of the first amended
answer was simply an elaboration of the defense presented
by the second paragraph of the original answer, and that
on the former appeal it had held that those facts did not
present a defense to the action and that the former opinion
was the law of the case and further consideration of that
matter was unnecessary. Coming then to consider the
conclusion of the averment of the first amended answer
that a rate of four dollars per car would be below the cost
of the service and therefore confiscatory, it did not pass
upon the effect of that charge if required of the Railroad
Company against its will, but held that its rates as fixed

LOUIS. & NASH. R. R. v. HIGDON.
234 U. S.

Opinion o:f
the Court.

by its own tariffs, interpreted by its conduct, as held in
the first opinion of the Court of Appeals, had made that
rate applicable to the shipments requested by Higdon
and that therefore the requirement of performing the
service at four dollars per car was not imposed upon the
plaintiff in error except because of its own tariff rate which
it might itself change at any time, but which while it was
in force should affect all shippers alike, including Higdon.
A reference to the former opinion of the court shows that
the question whether the published tariffs of the Railroad
Company applied to such service as Higdon required was
elaborately considered, and it was held that it did so
apply, and that as the Railroad Company was performning that service for other shippers similarly situated, to
avoid discrimination, which the Constitution and laws of
Kentucky inhibited, it was required to give the same rate
to Higdon. It therefore results that in the so-called denial
of the Federal right set up in the first amended answer
the court in effect held that the facts upon which it was
based had beer concluded by the former decision, which
was the law of the case, and to permit the Railroad Company to relitigate these facts because the resilt reached
was alleged to violate constitutional provisions would
permit it to relitigate that which the court held had been
settled against it by the first decision of the Court of Appeals in which no infraction of Federal right Was duly
set up as required to lay the foundation for review.
As to the matter set up in the second amended answer
the court held that it made no defense within the interstate commerce clause of the Constitution of the United
States, because all the court had done was to make a
decision which required the carrier to obey the state con.
stitution and laws which prevented discrimination as to
purely intrastate shipments. We think the court was right
in this conclusion. The State had full authority over
shipments purely intrastate, and the facts set up in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

234 U. S.

second amended answer' that the requirement made at
Henderson might be made at other points in the State
and would result in an unnecessary and unreasonable
burden upon interstate commerce, only avers an indirect
effect upon such commerce of the exercise of a right clearly
within the authority'of the State; and being only of that
indirect and consequential character it does not deprive
the Railroad Company of rights secured by the commerce
clause of the Constitution of the United States.
We" conclude that the rulings made'in the Court of
Appeals of Kentucky concerning the first and second
amended answers which were not permitted to be filed in
the court of original jurisdiction did not deprive the Railroad Company of rights secured by the Federal Constitution.
Affirmed.

EASTERN STATES RETAIL LUMBER DEALERS'
ASSOCIATION v. UNITED STATES.
McBRIDE, INDIVIDUALLY AND AS PRESIDENT
OF THE RETAIL LUMBERMEN'S ASSOCIATION
OF PHILADELPHIA, v. THE UNITED STATES.
APPEALS FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

Nos. 511, 550.

Argued October 24, 27, 1913.-Decided June 22, 1914.

Conspiracies are seldom capable of proof by direct testimony afid a
conspiracy to accomplish that which is their natural consequence
may be inferred from the things actually done.
The Sherman Law, as construed by this court in the Standard Oil Case,
while not reaching normal and usual contracts incident to lawful purposes and in furtherance of legitimate trade, does broadly condemn
all combinations and conspiracies which restrain the free and natural
flow of trade in the channels of interstate commerce.
Held in t~iiA case that the circulation of a so-called official report among
members of an association of retail dealers calling attention to actions

