OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

234 U. S.

MISSOURI, KANSAS & TEXAS RAILWAY COMPANY OF TEXAS v. HARRIS.
ERROR TO THE JUSTICE COURT, PRECINCT NO. 6, HOPKINS
COUNTY, TEXAS.
No. 604.

Submitted February 24, 1914.-Decided Jine 8, 1914.

Missouri, Kansas & Texas Ry. v. Cade, 233 U. S. 642, followed to effect
that the Texas Statute of 1909 allowing an attorney fee in certain
cases for claims of less than a specified amount is not unconstitutional under the due process or equal protection provisions of the
Fourteenth Amendment.
A state police regulation designed to promote the payment of small but
well founded claims and to discourage litigation in respect thereto,
and which only incidentally includes claims arising out of interstate
commerce, does not constitute a direct burden on interstate commerce, and is not, in the absence of legislation by Congress on the
subject, repugnant to the commerce clause or otherwise in conflict
with Federal authority. Atlantic Coast Line v. Mazursky, 216 U. S.
122.
When Congress has exerted its paramount legislative authority over a
particular subject of interstate commerce, state laws upon the same
subject are superseded.
The mere creation of the Interstate Commerce Commission, and the
grant to it of a measure of control over interstate commerce, does not,
in the absence of specific action by Congress or the Commission,
interfere with the police power of the States as to matters otherwise
within their respective jurisdictions and not directly burdening interstate commerce even though such commerce may be incidentally
affected. Southern Ry. Co. v. Reid, 222 U. S. 424.
While the Carmack Amendment supersedes state legislation on the
subject of the carrier's liability for loss of interstate shipments, it
does not interfere with a state statute incidentally affecting the remedy for enforcing that liability, such as a moderate attorney fee in
case of recoverable contested claims for damages. Atlantic Coast
Line v. Riverside Mills, 219 U. S. 186, distinguished.
The Texas Statute of 1909 allowing a reasonable attorney's fee as a

MISSOURI, KANSAS & TEXAS RY. CO. v. HARRIS.
234 U. S.

413

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

part of the costs in suits on contested but proper claims of less than
$200 is not unconstitutional as applied to claims for loss on interstate
shipments nor is it inconsistent with any of the provisions of the
Act to Regulate Commerce.

THE facts, which involve the constitutionality of a
statute of the State of Texas allowing an attorney's fee in
certain actions based on claims for small amounts against
railway companies, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. Joseph M. Brysim, Mr. Aldis B. Browne, Mr.
Alexander S. Coke and Mr. A. H. McKnight for plaintiff
in error:
The act of the legislature in question is void because in
conflict with that provision of § 1 of the Fourteenth
Amendment to the Constitution of the United States
which guarantees the equal protection of the laws.
The act violates that provision of § 1 of the Fourteenth
Amendment which prohibits the taking of property without due process of law.
The act is in part a regulation of, a burden upon, and
an interference with, interstate commerce, contrary to
subdivision 3, §8, Article I of the Constitution of the
United States, and is in conflict with the Act to Regulate
Commerce approved February 4, 1887, and the acts
amendatory thereof and supplementary thereto, and to
that extent is void; and since the good, if any, and the
bad in it are so intermingled that the one cannot
be separated from the other, the act must fail in
whole.
The provisions of the act of the legislature in question
relating to overcharges and loss and damage claims, as to
interstate shipments, are void.
In support of these contentions, see Adams Exp. Co.
v. Croninger, 226 U. S. 491; Adams Exp. Co. v. New York,
232 U. S. 14; A., T. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. Matthews, 174 U, S.

414

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

234 U. S.

96; Atl. Coast'Line v. Mazursky, 216 U. S. 122; Atl. Coast
Line v. Riverside Mills, 219 U. S. 186; Barbier v. Connolly,
113 U. S. 27' Barrett v. Indiana, 229 U. S. 30; Blake v.
McClung, 172 U. S. 259; Bradley v. Richmond, 227 U. S.
481; Centralof GeorgiaR. R. Co. v. Murphey, 196 U. S. 194;
Chi., M. & St. P. Ry. Co. v. Polt, 232 U.S. 165; C., R. I. &
P. Ry. Co. v. Hardwick Elevator Co., 226 U. S. 426; Connolly v. Union Sewer Pipe Co., 184 U. S. 540; Cotting v.
Kansas City Stock Yards, 183 U. S. 79; El Paso & N. E.
R. R. Co. v. Gutierrez, 215 U. S. 97; Employers' Liability
Cases, 207 U. S. 501; Fidelity Mutual Life Assn. v. Mettler,
185 U. S. 308; G., C. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150;
G., C. & S. F. Ry.jCo. v. Hefley, 158 U. S. 98; G., C. & S. F.
Ry. Co. v. Moore, 83 S. W. Rep. 362; Hale v. Henkel, 201
U. S. 76; H._& T. C. R. R. Co. v. Mayes, 201 U. S. 321; Ill.
Cent. R. R. Co. v.McKendree, 203 U. S. 529; Int. Com. Comm.
v. L. & N. R. R. Co., 227 U. S. 88;'Kansas City Southern
Ry. Co. v. Carl, 227 U. S. 639; McNeill v. Southern Ry. Co.,
202 U. S. 543; M., K. & T. Ry. Co. v. Harriman,227 U. S.
657; Mo. Pac. Ry. Co. v. Humes, 115 U. S. 512; Mo. Pac.
Ry. Co. v. Larabee Mills, 211 U. S. 612; Mondou v. N. Y.,
N. H. & H. R. R. Co., 223 U. S. 1; Nor. Pac. Ry. Co. v.
Washington, 222 U. S. 370; St. L., I. M. & S. Ry. Co. v.
Wynne, 224 U. S. 354; St. L. & S. F. Ry. Co. v. Mathews,
165 U. S. 1; Seaboard Air Line v. Seegars, 207 U. S. 73;
Simpson v. Shepard, 230 U. S. 352; Sinnot v. Davenport,
22 How. 242; Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 522; Southern Ry.
Co. v. Greene, 216 U. S. 400; Southern Ry. Co. v. Reid, 222
U. S. 424; Southern Ry. Co. v. Reid & Beam, 222 U. S.
444; West. Un. Tel. Co. v. Milling Co., 218 U. S. 406; Yazoo
& Miss. R. R. Co. v. Greenwood Grocery Co., 227 U. S. 1;
Yazoo & Miss. R. R. Co. v. Jackson Vinegar Co., 226 U. S.
217; Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356.
There was no appearance or brief filed for defendant
in error.

MISSOURI, KANSAS & TEXAS RY. CO. v. HARRIS.
234 U. S.

415

Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE PITNEY delivered the opinion of the court.
In this case the plaintiff below (now defendant in error)
recovered a judgment for three dollars and fifty cents
damages for loss of certain freight that was shipped from
St. Louis, Missouri, consigned to plaintiff at Como, Texas,
and delivered by the initial carrier to defendant for transportation to destination; the loss having occurred on
defendant's line in Texas. The judgment includes an
attorney's fee of ten dollars, allowed by virtue of the local
statute approved March 13, 1909, Laws p. 93, Texas Rev.
Civ. Stat. 1911, Arts. 2178 and 2179, which was under,
consideration in Missouri, Kansas & Texas Ry. v. Cade,
decided May 11, 1914, 233 U. S. 642, and is set forth
verbatim in a marginal note to the opinion in that case.
The controversy turns upon the allowance of the attorney's fee, the same Federal questions having been raised
in the state court and in this court that were raised in the
Cade Case. So far as the Fourteenth Amendment is concerned, our opinion in that case renders further discussion
unnecessary. But since the claim of the present plaintiff
was based upon freight lost in interstate commerce, we
must now pass upon the question whether the allowance
of an attorney's fees in such A case, pursuant to the Texas
statute, is repugnant to the Commerce Clause of the Federal Constitution or the Act to Regulate Commerce and
amendments thereof.
By way of preface, we should repeat that the state court
of last resort has construed the act as relating only to the
collection of claims not exceeding $200 in amount; that by
its terms it applies to claims "against any person or corporation doing business in this State, for personal services
rendered or for labor done, or for material furnished, or
for overcharges on freight or express, or for any claim for
lost or damaged freight, or for stock killed or injured -by
such person or corporation, its agents or employ6s"; and

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

that, in the Cade Case, we have held it to be a police regulation designed to promote the prompt payment of small but
well founded claims, and to discourage unnecessary litigation in respect to them; and have held it, in its general
application, to be not repugnant to either the "equal
protection" or the "due process" clauses of the Fourteenth
Amendment.
Such being the character of the statute, and it having a
broad sweep which only incidentally includes claims arising
out of interstate commerce, it follows that it cannot be
held to onstitute a direct burden upon such commerce
and hence repugnant to the commerce clause of the
Constitution, or otherwise in conflict with the Federal
authority, in the absence of legislation by Congress covering the subject. To this extent, the case is controlled by
the decision in Atlantic Coast Line R. R. v. Mazursky, 216
U. S. 122, where it was held that a South Carolina statute
which required common carriers doing business in the
State to settle claims for loss or damage to property while
in the possession of the carrier within forty days, in case
of shipments wholly within the State, and within ninety
days, in case of shipments from without the State, and
that failure to adjust and pay a claim within the prescribed period should subject the carrier to a penalty of
fifty dollars in case the full amount claimed was recovered,
as the statute was applied to a claim for loss or damage to
interstate freight while in the possession of the carrier
within the State, was not an unwarrantable interference
With interstate commerce, in the absence of legislation by
Congress, but was rather a regulation in aid of the performance by the carrier of its legal duty. The decision
was rested upon the authority and reasoning of Sherlock
v. Ailing, 93 U. S. 99, 104; Smith v. Alabama, 124 U. S. 465,
476; Nashville &c. Ry. v. Alabama, 128 U. S. 96; Western
Union Telegraph Co. v. .James, 162 U. S. 650, 660; Chicago,
Mil. & St. P. Ry. v. Solan, 169 U. S. 133, 137; Pennsyl-

MISSOURI, KANSAS & TEXAS RY. CO. v. HARRIS.
234 U. S.

417

Opinion of the Court.

vania R. R. Co. v. Hughes, 191 U. S. 477, 491; Missouri
Pacific Ry. v. Larabee Mills, 211 U. S. 612, 623. And see
Western Union Tel. Co. v. Milling Co., 218 U. S. 406, 416;
Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Crovo, 220 U. S. 364;
Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 352, 402, 408, 410.
But the "Act to Regulate Commerce" (Act of February 4, 1887, c. 104, 24 Stat. 379), is now invoked, together
with its amendments, and especially that part of the
Hepburn Act of June 29, 1906, known as the Carmack
Amendment (c. 3591, 34 Stat. 584, 595); and it remains
to be considered whether the Texas statute, as applied to
claims for loss or damage to interstate freight while in the
possession of the carrier in the State of Texas, is repugnant
to this.Federal legislation. It is of course settled that when
Congress has exerted its paramount legislative authority
over a particular subject of interstate commerce, state
laws upon the same subject are superseded. Northern
Pacific Ry. v. Washington, 222 U. S. 370, 378; Erie Railroad Co. v. New York, decided May 25, 1914, 233 U. S. 671.
But it is equally well settled that the mere creation of the.
Interstate Commerce Commission, and the grant to it of a
measure of control over interstate commerce, does not
of itself, and in the absence of specific action by the Commission or by Congress itself, interfere with the authority
of the States to establish regulations conducive to the
welfare and convenience of their citizens, even though
interstate commerce be thereby incidentally affected, so
long as it be not directly burdened or interfered with.
Missouri Pacific Ry. v. Larabee Mills, 211 U. S. 612, 623;
Southern Ry. Co. v. Reid, 222 U. S. 424, 437.
In the Larabee Mills Case it was held that the railroad
company, by engaging in the business of a common carrier, had become subject to certain duties imposed upon it
by general law, including the obligation to treat all shippers alike; that the enforcement of this duty and the regulation of matters pertaining to it were within the authority
VOL. ccxxxiv-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

of the State, although interstate commerce was thereby
indirectly affected; and that until specific action by Congress or the Commission, the control of the State over such
incidental matters remained undisturbed. Hence, a decision by the Supreme Court of Kansas, awarding a mandamus to require the company to restore the service of
transferring cars between the lines of another railroad and
the Larabee Mills and Elevator, in aid of interstate and
intrastate shipments alike, was affirmed. This case arose
after the enactment of the Hepburn Act.
On the other hand, it was held in the Reid Case that
since Congress had taken control of the subject of the
making of rates and charges, and by § 2 of the Hepburn
Act had forbidden the carrier to engage or participate in
transportation unless the rates, fares, and charges had
been filed and published in accordance with the provisions
of the act, a state law requiring railroad companies to receive freight for transportation whenever tendered at a
regular station and to forward the same over the route
selected by the person offering the shipment, under a
penalty of fifty dollars a day besides all damages incurred,
was in necessary conflict, since it required the carrier to
do the very things forbidden by the Federal law.
So in Chicago, R. I. &c. Ry. v. Hardwick Elevator Co.,
226 U. S. 426, it was held that since by the Hepburn Act,
Congress had legislated concerning deliveries of cars in
interstate commerce by carriers subject to the act, specifically requiring the carrier to provide and furnish
"transportation" (cars being embraced within the definition of the term) upon reasonable request, the authority
of the State of Minnesota to legislate upon the subject of
the delivery of cars when called for to be used in interstate
traffic was superseded. And see Yazoo & Mississippi R.
R. v. Greenwood Grocery Co., 227 U. S. 1.
These cases recognize the established rule that a state
law enacted under any of the reserved powers-especially

MISSOURI, KANSAS & TEXAS RY. CO. v. HARRIS.
234 U. S.

419

Opinion of the Court.

if under the police power--is not to be set aside as inconsistent with an act of Coilgress, unless there is actual

repugnancy, or unless Congress has, at least, manifested
a purpose to exercise its paramount authority over the
subject. The rule rests upon fundamental grounds that
should not be disregarded. In Reid v. Colorado, 187 U. S.
137, 148, the court, speaking by Mr. Justice Harlan, said:
"It should never be held that Congress intends to supersede or by its legislation suspend the exercise of the police
powers of the States, even when it may do so, unless its
purpose to effect that result is clearly manifested. This
court has said-and the principle has been often reaffirmed-that 'In the application of this principle of supremacy of an act of Congress in a case where the state
law is but the exercise of a reserved power, the repugnance
or conflict should be direct and positive, so that the two
acts could not be reconciled or consistently stand together.' Sinnot v. Davenport, 22 How. 227, 243." In
Savage v. Jones, 225 U. S. 501, 533, the court said: "When
the question is whether a Federal act overrides a state law,
the entire scheme of the statute must of course be considered and that which needs must be implied is of no less
force than that which is expressed. If the purpose of the
act cannot otherwise be accomplished-if its operation
within its chosen field else must be frustrated and its provisions be refused their natural effect-the state law must
yield to the regulation of Congress within the sphere of its
delegated power [citing cases]. But the intent to supersede the exercise by the State of its police power as to
matters not covered by the Federal legislation is not to be
inferred from the mere fact that Congress has seen fit to
circumscribe its regulation and to occupy a limited field.
In other words, such intent is not to be implied unless the
act of Congress fairly interpreted is in actual conflict with
the law of the State." [Citing many cases.]
With respect to the specific effect of the Carmack

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

Amendment (set forth in the margin 1), it has been held,
in a series of recent cases (Adams Express Co. v. Croninger,
226 U. S. 491; C., B. & Q. Railway v. Miller, 226 U. S.
513; Chicago, St. P. &c. Ry. v. Latta, 226 U. S. 519; Wells,
Fargo & Co. v. Neiman-Marcus Co., 227 U. S. 469; Kansas
City Southern Ry. Co. v. Carl, 227 U. S. 639; Missouri,
Kans. & Tex. Ry. Co. v. Harriman,227 U. S. 657; Chicago,
R. I. & Pac.Ry. Co. v. Cramer, 232 U. S. 490; Great Northern Ry. v. O'Connor, 232.U. S. 508; Boston & Maine R. R.
v. Hooker, 233 U. S. 97), that the special regulations and
policies of particular States upon the subject of the carrier's liability for loss or damage to interstate shipments
and the contracts of carriers with respect thereto, have
been superseded.
But the Texas statute now under consideration does not
in anywise either enlarge or limit the responsibility of the
carrier for the loss of property entrusted to it in transportation, and only incidentally affects the remedy for
enforciftg that responsibility. As pointed out in the Cade
1 That any common carrier, railroad, or transportation company receiving property for transportation from a point in one State to a point
in another State shall issue a receipt or bill of lading therefor and shall
be liable to the lawful holder thereof for any loss, damage, or injury to
such property caused by it or by any common carrier, railroad, or transportation company to which such property may be delivered or over
whose line 6r lines such property may pass, and no contract, receipt,
rule, or regulation shall exempt such common carrier, railroad, or transportation company from the liability hereby imposed; Provided, That
nothing in this section shall deprive any holder of such receipt or bill of
lading of any remedy or right of action which he has under existing
law.
That the common carrier, railroad, or transportation company issuing
such receipt or bill of lading shall be entitled to recover from the common carrier, railroad, or transportation company on whose line the loss,
damage, or injury shall have been sustained the amount of such loss,
damage, or injury as it may be required to pay to the owners of such
property, as may be evidenced by any receipt, judgment, or transcript
thereof.

MISSOURI, KANSAS & TEXAS RY. CO. v. HARRIS.
234 U. S.

421

Opinion of the Court.

Case, supra, it imposes not a penalty, but a compensatory
allowance for the expense of employing an attorney, applicable in cases where the carrier unreasonably delays
payment of a just demand and thereby renders a suit necessary. In fact and effect, it merely authorizes a moderate
increment of the recoverable costs of suit in the large class
of cases that are within its sweep, among which are incidentally included claims for freight lost or damaged in
interstate commerce.
It is true that in Atlantic Coast Line v. Riverside Mills,
219 U. S. 186, 208 (a case arising since the Hepburn Act),
it was held that § 8 of the act' of February 4, 1887, does
not authorize the allowance of a counsel or attorney's fee
in an action for loss of property entrusted to the carrier
for purposes of transportation. But that is far from holding that it is not permissible for a State, as a part of its
local procedure, to permit the allowance of a reasonable
attorney's fee, under proper restrictions. In claims of this
character, based upon the- ordinary liability of the common carrier, although regulated by the Commerce Act,
the state courts have full jurisdiction, and some differences respecting the allowance of costs and the amount of
the costs are inevitable, as being peculiar to the forum.
And we think that where a State, as in this instance, for
reasons of internal policy, in order to offer a reasonable incentive to the prompt settlement of small but well-founded
claims, and as a deterrent of groundless defenses, establishes by a general statute otherwise ufiexceptionable the
policy of allowing recovery of a moderate attorney's fee
as a part of the costs, in cases where, after specific claim
made and a reasonable time given for investigation of it,
payment is refused, and the claimant succeeds in establishing by suit his right to the full amount demanded, the
application of such statute to actions for goods lost in
interstate commerce is not inconsistent with the provisions of the Commerce Act and its amendments. The local

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Syllabus.

234 U. S.

statute, as already pointed out, does not at all affect the
ground of recovery, or the measure of recovery; it deals
only with a question of costs, respecting which Congress
has not spoken. Until Congress does speak, the State
may enforce it in such a case as the present.
-Judgmentaffirmed.

JOHNSON v. GEARLDS.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE DISTRICT OF MINNESOTA.

No. 802. Argued May 1, 1914.-Decided June 8, 1914.
Where complainant's entire case rests on the construction of treaties
with Indians in regard to reservations and on the claim that certain
of such treaties have been repealed by the subsequent admission of
the Territory within which the reservations are situated, this court
has jurisdiction of a direct appeal from the District Court under
§ 238, Judicial Code.
The provision in Article VII of the treaty with the Minnesota Chippewa Indians of 1855, that the laws of Congress prohibiting the manufacture and introduction of liquor in Indian country shall be in force
within the entire boundaries of the country ceded by that treaty to
the United States until otherwise provided by Congress, relates to
the outer boundaries and includes all the reservations that lie within.
It is within the constitutional power of Congress to prohibit the manufacture, introduction or sale of intoxicants upon Indian lands, including not only land reserved for their special occupancy, but also lands
outside of the reservations to which they may naturally resort; and
this prohibition may extend even with respect to lands lying within
the bounds of States.
Article VII of the Chippewa treaty of 1855 was not repealed directly or
by implication by the subsequent act of Congress admitting Minnesota into the Union, nor was that article repealcd by the effect of the
subsequent treaties with the same bands of Chippewas of 1865 and
1867; but the intent of treaties of 1855, 1865 and 1867, as construed

