INTERSTATE COM. COMM. v.'SO. PAC. CO. 315
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

INTERSTATE COMMERCE COMMISSION v.
SOUTHERN PACIFIC COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE COMMERCE COURT.
No. 98. Argued January 14, 15, 1914.-Decided June 8, 1914.
Los Angeles Switching Case, ante, p. 294, followed and applied to similar switching charges made by railway, companies in the City of,

San Francisco.
188 Fed. Rep. 241, reversed.

THE facts, which involve'the validity of an order of
the Interstate Commerce Commission relative to switching charges within the yard limits of San Francisco, California, axe stated in the opinion.
Mr. Blackburn Esterline, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, with whom The Solicitor General was on
the brief, for the United States.1
Mr. P. J. Farrellfor the Interstate Commerce Commission.1
Mr. Fred H. Wood and Mr. Gardiner Lathrop, with
whom Mr. Robert Dunlap, Mr. T. J. Norton, Mr. C. W.
Durbrow, Mr. W. F. Herrin and Mr. J. P. Blair were on
the brief, for appellees. 1
MR. JUSTicE HUGHES delivered the opinion of the court.
The Pacific Coast Jobbers' and Manufacturers' Association complained before the Interstate Commerce Commission of a switching charge of $2.50 per car maintained by
the respondents for delivering and receiving carload
freight to and from industries located upon spurs and sidetracks'within the carriers' switching limits in San Fran1 For

abstracts of arguments in this case see abstracts in preceding
case which was argued simultaneously herewith.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

cisco. The Commission, finding the facts to be similar to
those found in the case of the complaint of the Associated
Jobbers of Los Angeles with respect to switching charges
in the latter city (18 I. C. C. 310), entered a similar order
prohibiting the carriers from continuing the charge. This
suit was thereupon brought in the Circuit Court of, the
United States for the District of Kansas, first division,
against the Interstate Commerce Commission to restrain
the enforcement of the order. Upon its transfer to the
Commerce Court, the United States intervened and moved
to dismiss the proceeding. This motion was denied and
upon the application of the petitioners an injunction was
granted.
The questions presented on the appeal from this order
are the same as those which have been considered in the
opinion of the court in No. 98, Los Angeles Switching
Case, ante, p. 294, decided this day, and for the reasons
there set forth the order of the Commerce Court is reversed
and the cause is remanded to the District Court of the
United' States for the Northern District of California with
instructions to dismiss the bill.
It is so ordered.

