VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
234 U. S.

Syllabus.

the presumed purpose that the Secretary of War should
take charge of the work when finished, can override the
evident policy of Congress that the canal should be
accepted only when completed and ready for use, free of
cost to the United States, and that the local interests
should do the work of excavation and assume sole responsibility for lowering the level of the water.
Since we are of the opinion that Captain Williams derived no authority from the acts of Congress, it follows that
the immunity here asserted with respect to acts done under
his command is without legal support. And this renders
it unnecessary to consider whether plaintiff in error, being
subject to the restraint of the decree of the state court in
the Bilger suit as an agent of Erickson, one of the parties
thereto, could, without modification of that decree, have
successfully claimed immunity for a violation of the restraint upon the plea that he acted under the authority
of the Federal Government. Upon this question, therefore, we express no opinion.
Judgment affirmed.

COMMONWEALTH OF VIRGINIA v. STATE OF
WEST VIRGINIA.
MOTION OF THE STATE OF 'WEST VIRGINIA FOR LEAVE TO
FILE A SUPPLEMENTAL ANSWER TO THE BILL OF COMPLAINT OF THE COMMONWEALTH OF VIRGINIA.

No. 2, Original.

Argued April 16, 17, 1914.-Decided June 8, 1914.

The ordinary rules of legal procedure applicable to cases between individuals cannot be always applied to controversies between States
involving grave questions of law determinable by this court under
the exceptional grant of jurisdiction conferred by the Constitution.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

In this case the defendant State is permitted to file a supplemental
answer, the averments in which are to be considered as traversed by
the complainant State, and the subject-matter of the supplemental
answer is referred to the Master before whom previous hearings
were had with directions to report at the commencementof the
next term of this court.

THE facts, which, involve the procedure and practice
in an original case between two States of the Union and
the rules to be applied in regard to the filing of a supple.
inental answer, are stated in the opinion.

Mr. William A. Anderson and Mr. Randolph Harrison,
with whom Mr. John B. Moon, Mr. John G. Pollard,
Attorney General of the State of Virginia, and Mr. Samuel
W. Williams, former Attorney General, were on the brief,
for complainant.
Mr. A. A. Lilly, Attorney General of the State of West
Virginia, and Mr. John H. Holt, with whom Mr. V. B.
Archer and Mr. Charles E. Hogg were on the brief, for
defendant.
Mr. Sanford Robinson, with whom Mr. Holmes Conrad
was on the brief, for the bandholding creditors.
MR. CuIEF JUSTICE WHITE delivered the opinion of
the court.
This case, which was begun in 1906, was elaborately
argued in 1907 on a demurrer, which was overruled. 206
U. S. 290. It was again argued in 1908 on a motion to
appoint a Master. 209 U. S. 514. Before that officer
there was an extended hearing and a full report of all the
matters involved was filed in March, 1910. It was then
argued on a motion to take further testimony, and was
ultimately heard in an argument which extended many

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

days, every party in interest being represented, in the
month of January, 1911.
. Notwithstanding these facts when in March, 1911, the
court came to decide the, controversy, although it fully
reviewed anid passed upon the fundamental issues, as
its obvious duty required it to do, and fixed the principal
sum due by the State of West Virginia to the State of Virginia, in view of the consideration due to the parties as
States and that the cause was, as then said, "no ordinary
commercial suit, but, . . . a quasi-international difference referred to this court in reliance upon the honor
and constitutional obligations of the States concerned
rather than upon ordinary remedies," the controversy
was not completely and irrevocably disposed of but was
left open for a time not specified to the end that any clerical errors that might have crept into the calculations of
the sums due could be corrected and to give the States
time to consider the subject of liability for interest in the
light of what had been decided and to agree as to the rate
and period of the interest to be paid on the principal sum
which was determined. 220 U. S. 1, 36.
On the convening of the court in the following October, 1911, a motion was made on behalf of the State of Virginia to proceed at once to a final decree. Listening to the
suggestion of the State of West Virginia to the effect that
it desired further time to consider the subject, and in view
of the public considerations which had prevailed-when the
decree was entered, the motion of Virginia was overruled.
222 U. S. 17.
Yet further, when in November, 1913, another motion
on the part of Virginia was made to set the case down to
be finally disposed of at once upon the statement that no
agreement between the parties was possible, again giving
heed to the request of West Virginia through its constituted officers for a postponement for a stated time and to.
the statement that they were engaged in an honest en-

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

deavor to deal with the controversy and if possible to
come to an agreement as to the subjects left open, the
motion of Virginia was again refused, 231 U. S. 89, and as
it was possible to give to the State of West Virginia all
the time which that State in resisting the motion asked and
yet secure against the possibility of the hearing being
carried over to another term, the case was, assigned for
hearing on the thirteenth of April of this year.. When that
day was reached, the State of West Virginia, in accord with
a motion filed some days before, prayed leave to be permitted to file a supplemental answer asserting the existence of credits, which if properly considered would materially reduce the sum fixed as due to the State of Virginia,
the said answer in addition asserting various grounds
why interest should not be allowed in favor of Virginia
and against West Virginia on the sum due. Resisting
this request the State of Virginia insists that the items
embraced in the supplemental answer asked to be filed
had in effect already entered into the considerations by
which the principal sum due was fixed, and that if not, the
case should not be pbstponed for the purpose of permitting
the rights urged in the answer to be availed of because
every item concerning such alleged rights was proved in
the case before the Master, was mentioned in his report and was known or could have been known by the
use of ordinary diligence by those representing West
Virginia. And it is this controversy we now come to dis-.
pose of.
Without intimating any opinion whatever as to whether
the items with which the proposed supplemental answer
deals entered into the processes of calculation- or reasoning
by which the sum due was previously fixed, and moreover,
without intimating any opinion as to how far the items
embraced in the answer could serve as credits upon the
sum previously found due and therefore to that extent reduce the amount, we think it is obvious that most of the

VIRGINIA v. WEST VIRGINIA.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

items embraced in the answer were contained in the
Master's report, and in any event all were available then
for every defense now based upon them if their consideration had been pressed in the aspect and with the assertions
of right now made.
The question then is, Under these conditions ought the
permission to file the supplemental answer be granted?
We think it must be conceded that ina case between ordinary litigants the application of the ordinary rules of
legal procedure would render it impossible under the
circumstances which we have stated to grant the request.
We are of the opinion, however, that such concession ought
not to be here controlling. As we have pointed out, in
acting in this case from first to last the fact that the suit
was not an ordinary one concerning a difference between
individuals, but was a controversy between States involving grave questions of public law determinable by this
court under the exceptional grant of power conferred upon
it by the Constitution, has been the guide by which every
step and every conclusion hitherto expressed has been
controlled. And we are of the opinion that this guiding
principle should not now be lost sight of, to the end that
when the case comes ultimately to be finally and irrevocably disposed of, as come ultimately it must in the
absence of agreement between the parties, there may be
no room for the slightest inference that the more restricted
rules applicable to individuals have been applied to a great
public controversy, or that anything but the largest justice after the amplest opportunity to be heard has in any
degree entered into the disposition of the case. This conclusion, which we think is required by the duty owed to
the moving State, also in our opinion operates no injustice
to the opposing State, since it but affords an additional
opportunity to guard against the possibility of error, and
thus reach the result most consonant with the honor and
dignity of both parties to the controversy.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

Because of these convictions, we therefore make the
following order:
That the motion on the part of the State of West Virginia to file the supplemental answer be and the same is
hereby granted; and that the averments in such answer be
and the same shall be considered as traversed by the State
of Virginia; that the subject matter of the supplemental
answer as traversed be at once referred for consideration
and report to Charles E. Littlefield, Esq., the Master
before whom the previous hearings were had, with directions to hear and consider such evidence and testimony
as to the matters set forth in the supplemental answer as
the State of West Virginia may deem advisable to proffer
and such counter showing on the part of the State of
Virginia as that State may deem advisable to make. The
report on the subject to embrace the testimony so taken
and the conclusions deduced therefrom as well as the views
of the Master concerning the operation and effect of thc
proof thus offered, if any, upon the principal sum found
to be due by the previous decree of this court. Nothing
in this order to vacate or change in any manner or in any
particular the previous decree, and the same to stand
wholly unaffected by the order now made or any action
taken thereunder until the examination and report herein
provided for is made and this court acts upon the same.
It is further directed that the proceedings before the
Master be so conducted as to secure a report on or before
the second Monday of October, 1914.

