OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

234 U. S.

STONE, SAND AND GRAVEL COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 302.

Argued April 23, 1914.-Decidcd June 8, 1914.

Where the contract contains a provision for a method of annulment and
liquidated damages in case of a breach by failure to commence work
and the Government avails of that provision it is only entitled to the
liquidated damages and cannot recover damages for difference in
cost on reletting the contractunder a provision for failure to complete or abandonment after commencing the work. United States
v. O'Brien, 220 U. S. 321, distinguished.
The benefit and burden of a provision in a Government contract giving a right to annul in consequence of a breach by failure to commence work must hang together and the Government cannot avail
of the former without accepting the latter.
195 Fed. Rep. 68, reversed.

facts, which involve the liability of a contractor
and its surety under a contract with the Government for
excavation work, are stated in the opinion.
THE

Mr. William Marshall Bullitt, with whom Mr. Henry C.
Willcox and Mr. T. M. Miller were on the brief, for plaintiffs in error:
The contract as construed in United States v. O'Brien,
220 U. S. 321, means: Clause A: If the contractor (1) fails
to begin work on the day specified or (2) fails (in the judgment of the Government engineer) to prosecute the work
faithfully, then the United States may annul the contract,
i. e., refuse to perforin it further; in which'event the United
States may keep all money or retained percentages in its
hands, but shall have no further damageo.
Clause B: On the other hand, if the contractor fails to

STONE & GRAVEL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
234 U. S.

271

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

complete work by the time agreed on, whether such failure
be due to (1) a repudiation or refusal amounting to an
anticipatory breach or (2) abandonment after doing some
work or (3) mere failure to complete though still working
at the expiration of the contract period, then in either such
event, the United States may recover the excess cost of
completing the work. Farrelly v. United States, 159 Fed.
Rep. 671; United States v. O'Brien, 163 Fed. Rep. 1022;
S. C., 220 U. S. 321.
When the United States annulled the contract and retained the $6,206.69 money or reserved percentage due
the contractor (which clause A authorized it to retain),
then ipso facto the United States exercised the sole, exclusive and entire right it had under the contract; and it
cannot hold the contractor liable for the excess cost of
completing the work, which it had, by annulment, prohibited the contractor from further trying to perform.
Clause A calls for liquidated damages. United States v.
O'Brien, 220 U. S. 321; Sun Printing Ass'n v. Moore, 183
U. S. 642, 669; United States v. Bethlehem Steel Co., 205
U. S. 105, 119.
As clause A fixed the forfeiture of retained pay as the
penalty to a contractor upon an annulment under the
conditions specified in clause A, the United States cannot
claim an inherent right to further damages under clause A.
United States v. O'Brien, 220 U. S. 321, 327.
Clause B (which is the only clause in the contract permitting the United States to recover the excess cost of
completion) never came into operation against the contractor; and hence no recovery can be had under its provisions. The petition does not declare upon a breach of
clause B. There is no "failure to complete" when the
contractor is stopped from further work by an annulment
of his contract. Cases supra.
There were two independent grounds why there could be
no recovery in the O'Brien Case, both of which exist here.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

*234 U. S.

See also Quinn v. United States, 99 U. S. 30; Sparhawk
v. United States, 134 Fed. Rep. 720;. United States v.
McMullen, 222 U. S. 460; Graham v. United States, 231
U. S. 474; United States v. Maloney, 4 App. D. C.
505.
The American Surety Company was released by reason
of the 50 days' extension of time, which the United States
granted to the contractor without the knowledge or consent of the surety; which extension was not made pursuant
to any reserved power in the contract.
The time of beginning was material and was of the
essence of the contract.
Tie extension of time for beginning was permissible
only for freshets, ice, etc. United States v. Gleason, 175
U. S. 588, 604.
The extension was not granted on account of freshets,
ice, etc.
The contractor gave a valuable consideration for the
extension; it was not a mere forbearance by the Government.
The, surety never consented in advance to the extension except on account of freshets, ice, etc.
The surety was released by the extension. Reese v.
United States, 9 Wall. 13; Earnshaw v. Bdyer, 60 Fed. Rep.
528; United States v. Free1, 186 U. S. 309. United States v.McMullen, 222 U. S. 460, and Graham v. United States,
231 U. S. 474, distinguished.
Even if defendants are liable for all the damages suffered
by the Government, the excess cost of completing the
work under the Atlantic Gulf and Pacific Co. contract, is
not the proper measure of damages, owing to vital differences between the original contract and the relet contract.
Excess cost of completion is the proper measure of damages, but it must be for doing substantially the same work,
under substantially the same conditions as the original

STONE & GRAVEL CO. v. UNITED STATES. 273
234 U. S.

Argument for the United States.

contract called for. United States v. McMullen, 222 U. S.
460, 467; Graham v. United States, 231 U. S. 474, 481;
United States v. Weisburger, 206 Fed. Rep. 641, 645;
United States v. U. S. F. & G. Co., 194 Fed. Rep. 611, 615,
617; Am. Bonding Co. v. United States, 167 Fed. Rep. 910,
915, 922; Chesapeake Transmit Co. v. Walker, 158 Fed. Rep.
850, 856, 858; United States v. Walsh, 115 Fed. Rep. 697;
City of Goldsboro v. Moffat, 49 Fed. Rep. 213, 216.
The relet contract contained five new and more onerous
conditions, which increased the cost of the work, and hence
destroyed the value of the excess cost as a true measure of
damages.
Clause A was changed to impose the excess cost of completion as a penalty for being slow; indemnity was required against patents; definite time limit imposed; cost of
superintendence was imposed; the United States retained
the right of rejection, and compelled the contractor to
guarantee work as a whole,,
The Solicitor General, with whom Mr. Francis H. McAdoo, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, was on
the brief, for the United States:
The Government's right of action on the breach was not
lost by annulling the contract. United States v. McMullen, 222 U. S.460; United States v. O'Brien, 220 U. S.
321.
The measure of recovery for the breach was the excess
cost of completing the work and was not limited by
Clause A to liquidated damages. United States v. Maloney,
4 App. D. C. 505.
The Government had a right to repudiate the contract
on common-law principles, and is entitled to recover
actual damages for the breach. Bollman v. Burt, 61 Maryland, 415; Cleveland Rolling Mill v. Rhodes, 121 U. S. 255;
Johnson v. Allen, 78 Alabama, 387; Norrington v. Wright,
115 U. S. 188; Pope v. Porter, 102 N. Y. 366.
VOL. ccxxxIV-18

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

The defendant surety company was not discharged by
the extension of time.
The surety consented in advance to the extension which
was granted to the contractor. Graham v. United States,
231 U. S. 474; United States v. McMullen, supra.
Even if the surety did not so consent, it was not discharged by the extension, since it suffered no damage
thereby. Atlantic Trust & Deposit Co. v. Town of Laurinburg, 163 Fed. Rep. 690; Baglin v. Title Guaranty & Surety
Co., 166 Fed. Rep. 356; Guaranty Co.. v. Pressed Brick Co.,
191 U. S. 416 (and other cases cited in brief).
The contract with the Atlantic, Gulf & Pacific Company
was competent evidence to show the excess cost of completing the work. Baer v. Sleicher, 153 Fed. Rep. 129;
Graham v. United States, supra, 481; New York v. Second
Ave. R. R. Co., 102 N. Y. 572; United States v. McMullen,
supra, 471.
MR. JUSTICE LURTON

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action by the United States against the
Stone, Sand and Gravel Company, a corporation, hereinafter styled the contractor, and its surety, the American
Surety Company of New York, to recover the excess cost
of completion of a certain contract for excavating 7,500,000
cubic yards of earth within certain designated localities in
the work of improving the harbor of Vicksburg, Mississippi. For this work the United States agreed to pay 8.49
cents per cubic yard as the work progressed and the contractor agreed to begin active work .on or before December 5, 1899, with sufficient force and plant for an output
of not less than 260,000 cubic yards per month, to be increased on or before June 5, 1900 to a plant adequate for
an output of 330,000 cubic yards per month. Subsequently, upon application of the contractor, the time for
beginning was extended to January 24, 1900. While by

STONE & GRAVEL CO. v. UNITED STATES. 275
234 U. S.

Opinion of

the Court.

January 24 the contractor had made large expenditu, -s
inI preparing to commence work it had not on that day
assembled the necessary force or plant. For this reason
the Chief of Engineers on the following day confirmed
a prior, anticipatory, recommendation of the engineer in
charge that the contract should be annulled. An application for an extension of time was denied by the Secretary
of War and on March 7, 1900 formal notice was given to
the contractor, as required by the contract, that it had
failed to prosecute the work of excavation, etc., "in accordance with specifications and requirements
and the said contract is hereby annulled." The work was
relet at price of 12.4 cents per cubic yard, making an
excess cost of $228,201.91, and an action was brought and
judgment had against the contractor for that sum, minus
a credit of $6,206.69, on account of certain voluntary work
of an experimental character, which sum had been retained
by the United States. There was also judgment against
the Surety Company for $75,000, the full penalty of the
bond.
The only breach of contract afleged was the failure to
begin active operations on the day stipulated with a plant
and force adequate to produce the monthly output required. The breach is confessed, but the error insisted
upon here is that- the contract, for such a breach, limits
the measure of recovery to liquidated damages, namely,
a -forfeiture of all money or retained percentages due or to
become due under the contract, and that the court below
erred in allowing as damages the excess cost of the work
under the reletting.
The clauses of the contract which give rise to this contention occur in the standard form of contract used by the
War Department, known as form 19, and are the same
clauses construed by this court in United States v. O'Brien,
220 U. S. 321. The clauses involved for purposes of reference may be described as clauses A and B. In clause A

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court-.

234 U. S.

it is expressly provided that if the contractor "fail to commence with the performance of the work on the day specified herein, or shall, in the judgment of the engineer in
charge, fail to prosecute faithfully and diligently the work
in accordance with the specifications and requirements of
this contract, then, in either case, the party of the first
part, or his successor legally appointed, shall have power,
with the sanction of the Chief of Engineers, to annul this
contract by giving notice in writing to that effect
and upon the giving of such notice, all money or reserve
percentage due or to become due. . . . by reason of
this contract shall be and become forfeited to the United
States. . . ." The engineer in charge is thereupon authorized, if an immediate performance of the work, "be,
in his opinion, required by the public exigency, to proceed
to provide for the same
.
.", as prescribed in ยง 3709,
Revised Statutes.
Following clause A are three other clauses dealing with
changes in the work, cost of extra work and liabilities for
labor and material furnished. Then comes clause B, which
reads as follows:
"It is further understood and agreed that in case of
failure on the part of the party of the second part to complete this contract as specified and agreed upon, that all
sums due and percentage retained, shall thereby be forfeited to the United States, and that the said United
States shall also have the right to recover any or all damages due to such failure in excess of the sums so forfeited
and also to recover from the party of the second part, as
part of said damages, whatever sums may be expended
by the party of the first part in completing the said contract, in excess of the price herein stipulated to be paid
to the party of the second part for completing the same."
That there was no abandonment of the contract by the
plaintiffs in error is too plain to need discussion. Large
expenditures were made to get ready, and further exten-

STONE & GRAVEL CO. v. UNITED STATES. 277
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.,

sions of time were sought both before and after notice of
annulment. The explanation of the failure to get ready
lies in the obvious fact that the contract was larger than
the financial capacity of the contractor, and the United
States was plainly within its contract right in putting it
off the job and in reletting the work.
What is the measure of recovery against the contractor
where the Government "annuls" the contract for failure
to commence the work, upon a stipulated day? The right
to "annul," that is, to prohibit the contractor from going
on under the contract, is plainly conferred in two distinct
cases by clause A,-first, when the contractor fails to
begin upon the day stipulated, and, second, when, having
commenced the work, the contractor fails, "in the judgment of the engineer in charge to prosecute the work faithfully and diligently." In either case the same section
specifically declares that upon the giving of the notice of
annulment, "all money or reserve percentage due or to
become due to the contractor . . . shall be and become forfeited to the United States."
It is therefore obvious that if the right to annul this
contract depends upon clause A, the measure of damages
recoverable in this action is limited by that clause to the
forfeiture of all moneys or retained percentages due or to
become due under the contract. United States y. O'Brien,
supra. This is plainly conceded in the brief of the Solicitor
General.
To escape confession of error in the judgment below,
in go far as the United States was permitted to recover
the excess cost of reletting the job, it has been argued
that the right to annul the contract did not arise out of
clause A, but was "a right inherent" in this and every
other contract when time is of the essence, and that when
there was, as in this case, a breach, of an express agreement to begin the work upon a certain day, the right to
annul was complete; and upon annulment the right to

278

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

recover all actual damages followed. Of course, this socalled "inherent right" to annul a contract with the
consequent right to recover all actual damages as for
a complete breach, are rights supposed to arise not out
of any express agreement but out of the common law.
But the assumption that aside from clause A an agreement to begin such a work on a particular day would be
such a vital term of the contract as to justify the other
party in an immediate annulment if the work was not so
begun is seriously challenged. The vital character of
time to the contract would depend upon its nature and
particular circumstances. These might be such that
time would not be of the essence of the contract at all.
Any resort to the contract here involved as making time
the essence of the agreement must include clause A, which
expressly determines the consequences. Such an appeal
to the contract would naturally result detrimentally to
the argument here made, since the contract while making
time vital provides also for the consequence of a breach
in that respect. The benefit and the burden of clause A
must hang together:
But we need not deal with the consequences as if clause A
had, been omitted. The right might have been inherent
or not so vital as to justify the rigor of annulment. Both
parties elected to deal with the matter by express stipulation and that should be and is the end of it. In such a
situation there would be no justice in straining the contract for a construction which would limit its application
to cases where the right of annulment would not exist
without it. This contract was prepared in advance of the
bidding by the United States. The bidder was required
to dig with strict reference to its terms. One term was
that the work should begin with a plant and force of
definite capacity on or before a particular day. Another
was that if this term was not compiied with the United
States might annul the contract and that as a consequence

STONE & GRAVEL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
234 U. S.

279

Opinion of the Court.

of such annulment all money earned under it should be
forfeited. This folfeiture is not made dependent upon
the existence of any actual damage. Thus damages were
by stipulation liquidated. That. such damages may be in
this instance inadequate may be'true, but the fact affords
no ground for frittering away the agreement by fanciful
distinctions which never entered the head of either party
to it.
The plain purpose was to obtain for the United States
the right to take the contract from a bidder who should
break his agreement at its threshold and let the work to
another, possibly for a better price. At any rate the right
to annul for a breach in respect of the time of beginning
was a valuable right, and for it the Government stipulated
and liquidated the damages in the event of its exercise.
The contractor would not only lose his contract, but also
would forfeit everything due him. The agreement settled
the right and all the consequences of its exercise.
There is nothing in the case of United States v. O'Brien,
supra, which would justify the limitation that the United
States would now have us place upon this plain provision
of the contract. The contract in that case was a dredging
contract. The work was to begin on a day named and
be completed on another. The contract was according
to form 19 and included the two clauses, A and B, above
set out. The work was begun on time. The first member
of clause A was therefore eliminated from any consideration. The dredging did not progress to the satisfaction
of the engineer in charge who elected to stop the contractor
from going on, when, confessedly, time enough remained
to complete the work within contract time. The United
States, under these circumstances, sought to recover the
excess cost of completing the work, but this court held that
such excess cost could only be recovered under clause B
for a failure to complete according to the terms of the
agreement. There had been no breach of the agreement,

280

OCTOBER TERM,. 1913.
Syllabus.

234 U. S.

as time remained to finish the work had the contractor
not been prohibited from going on because the engineer
in charge was not satisfied with the progress of the job.
But the right to annul for the latter reason was a right
conferred by clause A, with the damages limited as therein
provided. The United States was precluded from the
rule of damages prescribed by clause B, and being forced
to justify under clause A was held bound by the limitation
of that clause.
The right to annul is expressly 'conferred by clause A
for a failure to begin on the stipulated day. The United
States resorted to that clause for its authority and pursued
the procedure therein pointed out. It is plainly bound
by the limitation of damages therein prescribed.
For the errorin not so confining the recovery, the judgment
is reversed and a new trial awarded.

ATLANTIC COAST LINE RAILROAD COMPANY v.
STATE OF GEORGIA.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE
OF GEORGIA.
No. 24. Argued April 17, 1913.-Decided June 8, 1914.
The existence of difference of opinion as to which is the best form of
necessary safety device does not preclude the exercise of legislative
discretion; and so far as the question is simply one of expediency
the legislature is competent to decide it.
The criticism that a police statute requires a carrier to comply with
conditions beyond its control and, therefore, deprives it of its property without due process of law, is not open in this court if the state
court has construed the statute as not so requiring the carrier.
The state court having held that the term "railroad company" as used

