OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

234 U. S.

TEXAS & PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY v. AMERICAN TIE & TIMBER CO., LTD.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIFTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 180. Argued January 20, 21, 1914.-Decided June 8, 1914.
Whether a class tariff includes a particular commodity is a controversy
primarily to be determined by the Interstate Commerce Commission
in the exercise of its power concerning tariffs and the authority to
regulate conferred upon it by the Act to Regulate Commerce.
The courts may not, as an original question, exert authority over subjects which primarily come within the jurisdiction of the Interstate
Commerce Commission.
Whether crossties are or are not lumber and therefore within the tariffs
filed for the latter is a question on which there is great diversity of
opinion even among experts upon the subject, and one that should
be determined in the first instance by the Interstate' Commerce
Commission.
190 Fed. Rep. 1022, reversed.

THE facts, which involve the jurisdiction of the Federal courts of cases to recover damages against a railway
company for refusing to accept interstate shipments with-

out action first taken thereon by the Interstate Commerce
Commission, are stated in the opinion.
Mr. HiramGlass, with whom Mr. W. L. Hall was on the

brief, for plaintiff in error:
The Circuit Court did not have power to determine the
issues and grant the relief prayed for under the facts disclosed by the record.
The trial court should have instructed a verdict for the

plaintiff in error.
The damages of defendant in error caused by its consent

TEX. & PAC. RY. v. AM. TIE CO.
234 U. S.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

to the wrongful cancellation of the contract by the Union
Pacific Railway Company are not recoverable.
The verdict of the jury a9nd the judgment of the court
awarded greater damages than sued for.
In support of these contentions, see ยง 6, Interstate Commerce Act, June 29, 1906; Balt. & Ohio R. R. v. Pitcairn
Coal Co., 215 U. S. 481; Tex. & Pac. Ry. Co. v. Abilene
Cotton Oil Co., 204 U. S. 426; Int. Com. Comm. v. Illinois
Cent. Ry. Co., 215 U. S. 452; Morrisdale Coal Co. v. Penn.
R. R. Co., 230 U. S. 304; Mitchell Coal Co. v. Penn. R. R.,
230 U. S. 247; Southern Railway v. Reid, 222 U. S. 424;
Atl. Coast Line v. Macon Grocery Co., 166 Fed. Rep. 206;
Smith v. Detroit &c. Ry., 175 Fed. Rep. 506; C. I. & S. Co.
v. K. & M. Ry., 178 Fed. Rep. 261; Franklin v. Penn. R.
R. Co., 203 Fed. Rep. 134; Pacific Coast B. Co. v. Railroad,
20 I. C. C. 546; United States v. Ill. Terminal Ry. Co.,
168 Fed. Rep. 548; So. Pac. Ry. Co. v. Int. Com. Comm.,
200 U. S. 552; Howard Supply Co. v. C. & 0. R. R., 162
Fed. Rep. 188; Greason v. St. L., I. M. & S. Ry. Co., 86
S. W. Rep. 722; Armour Packing Co. v. United States, 209
U. S. 56; Mugg v. T. & P. Ry. Co., 202 U. S. 242; McDonald
v. K. C. B. & N. Co., 149 Fed. Rep. 360; Beck v. Pauli,52
Fed. Rep. 700; Shouse v. Doane, 21 So. Rep. 807; Lapsley
v. Howard, 119 Missouri, 489.
Mr. Rollin W. Rodgers, with whom Mr. R. P. Dorough
was on the brief, for defendant in error:
Having in effect a joint through lumber tariff, covering
"lumber, all kinds," a carrier must transport all articles
offered embraced in the broad meaning of the term lumber.
The competent evidence required on which to base an
instruction to the jury that plaintiff in error had a lawful
rate in effect to transport ties was offered by defendant in
error.
The tariff in effect when filed was intended to cover ties
and the contention now set up is a subterfuge.

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

The defendant in error is entitled to recover in this cause
under ยง 1 of the Act to Regulate Commerce.
The charge of the court on cancellation of contract
was proper under the evidence.
Sections 1, 3, 6, 8, and 9, of the Act to Regulate Commerce, 24 Stat. 379, 34 Stat. 584, apply to this case.
In support of these contentions, see Am. T. & T. Co. v.
K. C. S. Ry. Co., 175 Fed. Rep. 28; Balt. & Ohio Ry. Co. v.
Pitcairn Coal Co., 215 U. S. 481; C., B. & Q. Ry. v. Feintuch, 191 Fed. Rep. 488; Int. Com. Comm. v. D., L. & W.
Ry., 220 U. S. 235; Int. Com. Comm. v. I. C. R. R. Co., 215
U. S. 426; Lyne v. D., L. & W. Ry., 170 Fed. Rep. 847;
Montague v. Lowry, 193 U. S. 38; Norrington v. Wright,
115 U. S. 188; N. Y., N. H. & H. Ry. Co. v. Int. Com.
Comm., 200 U. S. 361; Penn. R. R. Co. v. Int. Coal Co., 230
U. S. 184; 1 Beach Modern Law of Contracts, ยง 122.
See also the following cases decided by the Interstate
Commerce Commission. Blume v. Wells-Fargo & Co.,
15 I. C. C. 53; Enterprise Trans. Co. v. Penn. R. R., 12
I. C. C. 326; Foster Bros. v. Duluth S. S. & A. Ry., 14 I.
C. C. 232; Hurlburt v. L. S. & M. S. Ry., 2 I. C. C. 122;
S. C., 22 Id. 81; Ind. Frt.Bureau v. C.; C., C. & St. L. Ry.,
15 I. C. C. 367; Joynes v. Penn. R. R. Co., 17 I. C. C. 361;
Lanning-HarrisCo. v. St. L. & S. F. Ry., 15 I. C. C. 37;
Newton Gum Co. v. C., B. & Q. Ry., 16 1. C. C. 341; N. Y.
Board of Trade v. Pa. R. R., 3 I. C. C. 417; Pitts v.. St. L.
& S. F. Ry., 10 1. C. C. 684; Pac. Coast Biscuit Co. v. 0. R.
& N. Co., 20 I. C. C. 178;,Pueblo Trans. Assn. v. So. Pac.
Ry., 14 I. C. C. 82; Reynolds v. Railway Co., 1 I. C. C. 685;
Woodward v. Louis. & Nash. Ry. Co., 15 I. C. C. 170;
Washer Grain Co. v. Mo. Pac. Ry., 15 I. C. C. 147.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE WHITE

delivered the opinion of the

court.
Basing its cause of action on the Act to Regulate Commerce the American Tie & Timber Company, defendant

TEX. & PAC. .RY. v. AM. TIE CO.
234 U. S.

.Opinion. of the Court.

in error, hereafter called the Tie Company, commenced
suits in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Texas against the Texas & Pacific
Railway Company, plaintiff in error, and the Kansas City
Southern Railway Company to recover damages alleged
to have resulted from the refusal of the railway companies
to furnish, in September, October and November, 1907,
cars for the loading of oak railway crossties at various
points on the line of the railways in Arkansas and Louisiana for shipment to Linwood, Kansas, beyond the lines of
the companies. The cases were consolidated for trial,
subject to a plea to the jurisdiction filed by the Kansas
City Southern Railway Company, which plea was after*ward sustained and the suit as to that company dismissed.
There was a trial, however, as to the Texas & Pacific Railway Company, resulting in a verdict and judgment thereon
for $17,112.33, and the writ of error now before us is prosecuted by the Railway Company to a judgment of the court
below affirming the trial court. (190 Fed. Rep. 1022.)
At the close of the evidence a motion was made to dismiss "because under the facts and circumstances now disclosed by the record, and compatibly with the act of Congress of the United States to regulate interstate commerce,
this court has no power to consider and decide the subject
matters which are complained of, or to award the relief
prayed for by plaintiff." The denial of this motion is
assigned as error and we come at once to consider it and
state only so much of the pleadings and evidence as is
necessary to adequately present the issue to be decided.
The amended petition after averring that the Tie Company was a Louisiana corporation and that the Railway
Company was a corporation organized under the laws of
the United States, alleged in substance that in 1901 the
Railway Company issued and filed with the Interstate
Commerce Commission "its joint through lumber tariff,
T. & P. No. 8500-H, applying on lumber, all kinds (except

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

Walnut and Cherry), lath and shingles and articles taking
same rates from points on the Texas & Pacific Railway Co.
to points in Kansas," by which a joint through rate of
twenty-four cents per hundred pounds was put into effect
from points on the Railway Company's line in Arkansas
and Louisiana to Linwood, Kansas, "on, amongst other
things, oak lumber," Which rate it was averred had been
continuously in effect from the date of the filing of the
said tariff up to the happening of the events complained of.
It was averred that on July 23, 1907, the Tie Company
entered into a contract with the Union Pacific Railway
Company to deliver to said company f. o. b. cars Linwood,
Kansas, 150,000 oak railway crossties of specified dimensions at the rate of fifteen thousand per month, beginning
on or before October 1, 1907, at the price of 86 cents per tie,
which contract was by its terms based on the rate of 24
cents per hundredweight fixed in the tariff filed as above
stated in 1901. That for the purpose of performing said
contract the Tie Company accumulated at stations on the
Railway Company's line in Arkansas and Louisiana 44,541
oak crossties for shipment to Linwood, Kansas, and on
October 10, 1907, requested the railway to furnish cars
for the loading of the crossties at such points. It was alleged that after furnishing three cars, which were loaded
by the Railway Company and shipped at the rate of 24
cents per hundred pounds, the Railway Company refused
to provide further cars or to receive the crossties for shipment upon the ground, as stated by it, that it had no
through rate applicable to oak railway crossties from the
several points on its line to Linwood, Kansas. The petition
charged, however, that the joint through lumber tariff
above referred to and the rate of 24 cdnts thereby established included oak ties and that the railway's refusal to
provide cars and to carry the ties at its published rate was
an unjust and unreasonable discrimination against the
Tie Company, against the several places on the Railway

TEX. & PAC. RY. v. AM. TIE CO.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Company's line where the ties had been accumulated and
against the ties as an article of commerce, which discrimination, it was averred, was practiced by the Railway
Company with the object of preventing the movement of
the crossties to points beyond its line and of thus compelling the Tie Company to sell the ties which it had accumulated to the Railway Company. It was alleged that the
refusal to transport the ties had resulted in unreasonable
prejudice and disadvantage to the Tie Company and to
the traffic in ties, and in benefit to the Railway Company
as a purchaser and consumer of crossties, all of which constituted a violation of the Act to Regulate Commerce.
It was averred that in corLsequence of the refusal of the
Railway to furnish the cars and the resulting inability of
the Tie Company to deliver the ties to the Union Pacific
Railway under the contract, that company had cancelled
the contract to buy the ties. And the amount sought to
be recovered was alleged to be the loss resulting to the Tie
Company consequent on such cancellation, together with
punitive damages based on the "wilful, wanton and malicious" conduct on the part of the Railway Company,
and a reasonable attorney's fee.
The Railway Company besides denying generally the
allegations of the amended petition alleged that its joint
through lumber tariff did not include a rate on oak railway
crossties, but that crossties were a separate and distinct
and well-recognized freight commodity, and that at the
time mentioned in the petition it had not filed with the
Interstate Commerce Commission any tariff under which
it could lawfully accept for interstate shipment, at a
through rate, the crossties offered by the Tie Company.
The answer further denied that its failure to have in effect
such a rate was a discrimination against crossties or the
Tie Company or any locality, and alleged that oak crossties had never before been offered to it in Arkansas and
Louisiana for shipment to interstate points on its lines or

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

connections so as to render it advisable to establish such a
rate. It was averred that when the Railway Company
first, learned, in September, 1907, of the purpose of the
Tie Company to ship crossties it at once notified the Tie
Company that it had no through rate on ties and therefore
would not be able to offer such a rate but would seek to
establish a through rate of fifty cents per hundredweight
if sufficient time was allowed it to give the public notices
of the filing of the tariff as required by the statute. It was
then alleged that thereafter the first intimation that the
Railway Company had of the purposes of the Tie Company was a letter transmitted to one of its officers from
the Interstate Commerce Commission informing the Railway Company of the fact that the Tie Company had filed
an informal complaint with the Commission on the ground
that although the Railway Company's tariff on lumber embraced crossties, it had announced its intention not to
receive them under the lumber schedule, and protesting
in advance against permitting the Railway Company to
file a specific tariff on crossties at fifty cents per hundredweight, because, as. compared with the 24 cent lumber
rate, it would be unreasonable. That at once to avoid
difficulty the Railway Company applied to the Interstate
Commerce Commission to be allowed immediately to put
into effect a cross-tie rate at 24 cents per hundred pounds,
the same as the lumber rate, and such request was refused
by the Commission. Request was then made to put in
such a rate after five days' notice, which was likewise refused, and thereupon in January, 1908, the Railway Company issued and filed with the Interstate Commerce Commission a joint through lumber tariff amended so as to
include at the lumber rate "wood railroad crossties, all
kinds, car loads." The answer then charged that at no
time until such tariff became effective, February 13, 1908,
could the Railway Company have lawfully accepted and
carried oak railway crossties under the provisions of the

TEX. & PAC. RY. v. AM. TIE CO.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Act to Regulate Commerce. Referring to an averment in
the petition concerning the acceptance of three cars of
crossties at about this time for shipment at the lumber
rate, the answer averred that if the facts were true it furnished no basis for recovery, as the receipt of the ties inadvertently or otherwise in the absence of a rate would
have been a violation of law and afforded no ground for
inferring the obligation to continue to do so, and besides
did not aid the plaintiff's case, which was based upon the
refusal of the Railway Company to take freight at an
established and existing rate, not upon any supposed
obligation by estoppel to do so when there was no establishe1 rate. And by an amendment to the answer it was
insisted that under ยง 9 of the Act to Regulate Commerce
the ilaintiff could not prosecute its action because by
making a complaint, as it had done, to the Interstate
Commerce Commission concerning the failure to treat the
lumber tariff as embracing. a rate on crossties, the plaintiff
had elected to proceed before the Commission.
The evidence at the trial tended to support the allegations of the amended petition as to the making of the
contract with the Union Pacific Railway Company, the
accumulation of crossties at the several stations on the
Railway's line, the request for cars for the shipment of
the ties to Linwood, Kansas, the refusal of the Railway to
provide the cars, the cancellation of the contract by the
Union Pacific Railway Company, and the consequent loss
to the Tie Company. The Railway Company's joint
through lumber tariff was introduced in evidence and it was
not disputed that by it a rate of 24 cents per 100 pounds
was established on oak lumber and that oak railway crossties were not specifically mentioned. The Railway Company also introduced in evidence the correspondence between it and the Interstate Commerce Commission showing
among other things the request to be allowed to put immediAtefy into effect the cross-tie rate and the refusal of the
voL. ccxxxiv-10

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

Commission to grant the request, and, the other facts and
circumstances stated in the answer. It is not disputable
that the pivotal question in the case was whether oak railway crossties were included in. the filed tariff fixing a
through lumber rate of 24 cents per hundredweight, and
so far as the solution of that inquiiry depended upon the
views of men engaged in the lumber and railroad business
as developed in the testimony it is equally indisputable
that there was an irreconcilable conflict. And this conflict
at once leads to a consideration of the principle which
dominates the controversy and upon which its decision
therefore depends.
There is no room for controversy that the law required a
tariff and therefore if there was no tariff on crossties, the
making and filing of such tariff'conformably to the stitute
was essential. And it is equally clear that the controversy
as to whether the lumber tariff included crossties was one
primarily to be determined by the Commission in the
exercise of its power concerning tariffs and the authority
to regulate conferred upon it by the statute. Indeed, we
think it is indisputable that that subject is directly controlled by the authorities which establish that for the
preservation of the uniformity which it was the purpose
of the Act to Regulate Commerce to secure, the courts
may not as an original question exert authority over subjects which primarily come with the jurisdiction of the
Commission. Texas & P. R. Co. v. Abilene Cotton Oil Co.,
204 U. S. 426; Balt. & Ohio R. Co. v. United States ex
rel. PitcairnCoal Co., 215 U. S. 481; Robinson v. Baltimore
& 0. R. Co., 222 U. S. 506; Mitchell Coal Co. v. Penna.
R. R. Co., 230 U. S. 247; Morrisdale Coal Co. v. Penna.
R. R. Co., 230 U. S. 304. No question is made as to the
controlling effect of the doctrine as a general rule, but it is
urged that it is not applicable to this case for the following
reasons:
(a) The foundation upon which the doctrine rests, it is

TEX. & PAC. RY. v. AM. TIE CO.
234 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

insisted, is the necessity of a uniform enforcement of the
Interstate Commerce Act and the danger of diversity and
conflict arising if questions concerning the existence of
tariffs or their reasonableness, of discriminations and
preferences were left to be originally determined by courts
of general jurisdiction, thus giving rise to the possibility
of one rule in one jurisdiction and another in another.
But the argument proceeds to insist- that upon the principle that where the reason for the application of a law
ceases to exist the law itself ceases to apply, the settled construction of the Act to Regulate Commerce, announced and
enforced in the Abilene and -other cases, has here no application because it is so plain that oak crossties were included
in the lumber rate as fixed in the tariff of the Railway Company that there is no reason for proceeding primarily before the Commission, as there is no possibility of difference
on the subject if left to the consideration of the courts.
We need not pause to point out the palpable error of law
which the proposition involves since on the face of the record it isapparent that the assumption of fact upon which
it rests is absolutely without foundation. We say this because nothing could more clearly demonstrate such result
than does the conflict and confusion in the testimony concerning whether crossties were included in the filed lumber
tariff. And indeed the same demonstration arises from a
consideration of some decided cases, as, for instance, American Tie & Timber Company v. Kansas City So. Ry. Co. et
al., 175 Fed. Rep. 28, 33, presumably a report of this case,
where it appears that at the first hearing the trial judge was
so clearly of the opinion that crossties were not lumber that
he so charged the jury anddirected a verdict for the Railroad Company. See also c reason v. St. Louis &c. R. Co.,
112 Mo. App. 116, where it is apparent that the same conclusion was reached.
(b) Because the question has been determined by the
Interstate Commerce Commission in Reynolds v. Railway

OCTOBER TERM, 1913.
Opinion of the Court.

234 U. S.

Co., 1 I. C. C. Rep. 600, 685. An examination of that report, however, discloses that the railway had in effect a
published rate on crossties eo nomine and the complaint
was that it was unreasonable because it was higher than the
rate on lumber. The ruling of the Commission was not
that the lumber rate included a rate on ties, but that the
rate on ties was unreasonable as compared with the lumber
rate and should be reduced.
(c) Because the Railway Company by loading and
carrying the three cars of ties under the 24-cent rate had
itself recognized the applicability of the lumber rate to
crossties and was concluded thereby. But without stopping to consider the tendency of the proof establishing
the want of foundation for the proposition we think it is
wanting in merit for this obvious reason: If, as we have
seen, the question of whether crossties were embraced in
the filed tariff concerning lumber was involved in such conflict and doubt as to require the action of the Interstate
Commerce Commission, the situation was such that the
Railway Company could not do by indirection that which
the statute permitted it to do only by compliance with the
law, that is, filing its tariffs'in the regular way. Nothing
could better serve to demonstrate this self-evident truth
than by recurring to the fact that at the very inception of
the controversy the request made by the Railway Company to the Interstate Commerce Commission to be allowed to immediately put in the rate on crossties was refused by that body.
(d) Because the Railway Company did not refuse to
transport the ties in good faith and insisted upon the absence of a scheduled rate simply as a pretext and device
for preventing the shipment of the ties and their delivery
in performance of the contract with the Union Pacific
Railway, and with the ulterior and wrongful motive of
keeping the ties on its line so as to be able to purchase
them itself from the Tie Company. But without pausing

N. Y. LIFE INS. CO. v. HEAD.
234 U. S.

Syllabus.

to do more than direct attention to the fact that this
proposition is necessarily disposed of by what we have
said, that is, by the lawfulness, in view of the state of the
existing and filed tariff, of the refusal until the Commission
had acted, we think all the contentions under this last
head are completely answered by the- statement that the
suit was based upon the unlawfulness of the action of the
Railway Company in refusing to carry the ties in view of

the filed tariffs, and therefore the contentions are not
open for our consideration..
It results that error was committed by the court in declining to sustain the motion to dismiss for want of jurisdiction and therefore it is our duty to reverse.
Reversed.

MR. JUSTICE PITNEY dissents.

NEW YORK LIFE

INSURANCE

COMPANY

v.

HEAD.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
No. 254.

Argued March JO, 1914.-Decided June 8,1914.

There is a clear distinction between questions concerning the operation
and effect of the law of a State within its borders and upon the conduct of persons within its jurisdiction, and questions concerning the
right of the State to extend its authority beyond its borders with
the same effect; and a decision upon the former does not constitute
a ground for refusing to entertain a writ of error to review the judgment of the state court involving the latter.
A State maynot extend the operation of its statutes beyond its borders
into the jurisdiction of other States, so as to destroy and impair the

