OCTOBER TERM, 1985
Syllabus

476 U. S.

CITY OF LOS ANGELES ET AL. v. PREFERRED
COMMUNICATIONS, INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE NINTH CIRCUIT
No. 85-390.

Argued April 29, 1986-Decided June 2, 1986

Respondent sued petitioners, the city of Los Angeles and its Department
of Water and Power (DWP), in Federal District Court, alleging, inter
alia, a violation of its rights under the First Amendment by reason of
(1) the city's refusal to grant respondent a cable television franchise
on the ground that respondent had failed to participate in an auction for a
single franchise in the area and (2) DWP's refusal to grant access to poles
or underground conduits used for power lines. The District Court dismissed the complaint for failure to state a claim upon which relief could
be granted. The Court of Appeals reversed and remanded for further
proceedings.
Held: The complaint should not have been dismissed. The activities in
which respondent allegedly seeks to engage plainly implicate First
Amendment interests. Through original programming or by exercising
editorial discretion over which stations or programs to include in its
repertoire, respondent seeks to communicate messages on a wide variety
of topics and in a wide variety of formats. But where speech and conduct are joined in a single course of action, the First Amendment values
must be balanced against competing societal interests. Thus, where the
city has made factual assertions to justify restrictions on cable television
franchising and these assertions are disputed by respondent, there must
be a fuller development of the disputed factual issues before this Court
will decide the legal issues. Accordingly, the case will be remanded to
the District Court so that petitioners may file an answer and the material
factual disputes may be resolved. Pp. 493-496.
754 F. 2d 1396, affirmed and remanded.
J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court. BLACKfiled a concurring opinion, in which MARSHALL and O'CONNOR,
JJ., joined, post, p. 496.
REHNQUIST,

MUN, J.,

Edward J. Perez argued the cause for petitioners. With
him on the briefs were Thomas Bonaventura, John Haggerty, John H. Garvey, and Nicholas P. Miller.

LOS ANGELES v. PREFERRED COMMUNICATIONS, INC.
488

489

Counsel

Harold R. Farrowargued the cause for respondent. With
him on the brief were Sol Schildhause and Siegfried
Hesse. *
*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for the State of Connecticut by Joseph I. Lieberman, Attorney General, Clarine N. Riddle,
Deputy Attorney General, and William B. Gundling, Assistant Attorney
General; for the city of Brookfield, Wisconsin, by Harold H. Fuhrman; for
the city of New York by Paul S. Ryerson, Patrick J. Grant, and Hadley
W. Gold; for the city of Palo Alto, California, et al. by Michael A. Small,
Jerome B. Falk, Jr., Steven L. Mayer, Steven F. Nord, Donald S. Greenberg, Mary Jo Levinger, John Sanford Todd, P. Lawrence Klose, CarterJ.
Stroud, John W. Witt, R. R. Campagna, Jack White, R. K. Fox, Gordon
Phillips, Victor Kaleta, Edward J. Cooper, George Agnost, Richard Terzian, J. Robert Flandrick, Roger Picquet, Stanley E. Remelmeyer, James
Jackson, and Robin Faisant; for Mountain States Telephone and Telegraph Co. et al. by Debra T. Yarbrough, Robert W. Barker, and L. Andrew
Tollin; for the National Association of Broadcasters by Michael S. Home
and Michael D. Berg; for the National Federation of Local Cable Programmers et al. by James N. Horwood, Alan J. Roth, Joseph Van Eaton, and
Donald Weightman; for the National Institute of Municipal Law Officers
by Roy D. Bates, William I. Thornton, Jr., John W. Witt, Roger F. Cutler, George Agnost, J. Lamar Shelley, Robert J. Alflon, James K. Baker,
Frank B. Gummey III, James D. Montgomery, Clifford D. Pierce, Jr.,
William H. Taube, and Charles S. Rhyne; for the National League of Cities et al. by Benna Ruth Solomon and Jeffrey H. Howard; for the Office
of Communication of United Church of Christ et al. by Henry Geller and
Andrew J. Schwartzman; and for Wisconsin Bell, Inc., by Robert A.
Christensen, Joan F. Kessler, and Floyd S. Keene.
Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the United States
et al. by Solicitor General Fried, Assistant Attorney General Ginsburg,
and Jack D. Smith; for the American Cable Publishers Institute, Inc.,
by Peter C. Smoot; for Guam Cable TV by Richard L. Brown; for the
Mid-America Legal Foundation by John M. Cannon, Susan W. Wanat,
and Ann Plunkett Sheldon; for the Motion Picture Association of America, Inc., by Richard M. Cooper and Walter J. Josiah, Jr.; for the National Cable Television Association, Inc., by Brenda L. Fox, Michael S.
Schooler, and H. Bartow FarrIII; for the National Satellite Cable Association by Mark J. Tauber and Deborah C. Costlow; for Nor-West Cable
Communications Partnership et al. by David Rosenweig and Jerome D.
Krings; for Space, the Satellite Television Industry Association, Inc., by

OCTOBER TERM, 1985
Opinion of the Court

476 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the Court.
Respondent Preferred Communications, Inc., sued peti-

JUSTICE REHNQUIST

tioners City of Los Angeles (City) and the Department of
Water and Power (DWP) in the United States District Court
for the Central District of California. The complaint alleged
a violation of respondent's rights under the First and Fourteenth Amendments, and under §§ 1 and 2 of the Sherman
Act, by reason of the City's refusal to grant respondent a
cable television franchise and of DWP's refusal to grant access to DWP's poles or underground conduits used for power
lines. The District Court dismissed the complaint for failure
to state a claim upon which relief could be granted. See
Fed. Rule Civ. Proc. 12(b)(6). The Court of Appeals for the
Ninth Circuit affirmed with respect to the Sherman Act, but
reversed as to the First Amendment claim. 754 F. 2d 1396
(1985). We granted certiorari with respect to the latter
issue, 474 U. S. 979 (1985).
Respondent's complaint against the City and DWP alleged,
inter alia, the following facts: Respondent asked Pacific Telephone and Telegraph (PT&T) and DWP for permission to
lease space on their utility poles in order to provide cable
television service in the south central area of Los Angeles.
App. 6a. These utilities responded that they would not lease
the space unless respondent first obtained a cable television
franchise from the City. Ibid. Respondent asked the City
for a franchise, but the City refused to grant it one, stating
that respondent had failed to participate in an auction that
was to award a single franchise in the area. Id., at 6a-7a.'
Richard L. Brown; and for Tele-Communications, Inc., et al. by Stuart W.
Gold, Robert D. Joffe, and Henry J. Gerken.
Briefs of amici curiae were filed for the American Civil Liberties Union
et al. by Charles S. Sims, Burt Neuborne, and Paul Hoffman; for Best
View Cablevision, Inc., by Lawrence S. Bader, Paul R. Grand, and Diana
Parker; for UNDA-USA et al. by Robert L. Stern and Patrick F. Geary;
and for Nicholas W. Carlin, pro se.
'California authorizes municipalities to limit the number of cable television operators in an area by means of a "franchise or license" system, and

LOS ANGELES v. PREFERRED COMMUNICATIONS, INC.
488

491

Opinion of the Court

The complaint further alleged that cable operators are
First Amendment speakers, id., at 3a, that there is sufficient
excess physical capacity and economic demand in the south
central area of Los Angeles to accommodate more than one
cable company, id., at 4a, and that the City's auction process
allowed it to discriminate among franchise applicants based
on which one it deemed to be the "best." Id., at 6a. Based
on these and other factual allegations, the complaint alleged
that the City and DWP had violated the Free Speech Clause
of the First Amendment, as made applicable to the States by
the Fourteenth Amendment, §§ 1 and 2 of the Sherman Act,
to prescribe "rules and regulations" to protect customers of such operators.
See Cal. Gov't Code Ann. § 53066 (West Supp. 1986). Congress has recently endorsed such franchise systems. See Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984, Pub. L. 98-549, 98 Stat. 2779. Pursuant to the authority
granted by the State, the City has adopted a provision forbidding the construction or operation of a cable television system within city limits unless
a franchise is first obtained. See Los Angeles, Cal., Admin. Code, Art.
13, § 13.62(a) (1979). A city ordinance provides that franchises are to be
allotted by auction to the bidder offering "the highest percentage of gross
annual receipts" derived from the franchise and "such other compensation
or consideration ... as may be prescribed by the Council in the advertisement for bids and notice of sale." See Los Angeles Ordinance 58,200, § 5.2
(1927).
In October 1982, the City published an advertisement soliciting bids for a
cable television franchise in the south central area of Los Angeles. The
advertisement indicated that only one franchise would be awarded, and it
established a deadline for the submission of bids. App. 91a. It also set
forth certain nonfinancial criteria to be considered in the selection process,
including the degree of local participation in management or ownership
reflecting the ethnic and economic diversity of the franchise area, the
capacity to provide 52 channels and two-way communication, the willingness to set aside channels for various public purposes and to provide public
access facilities, the willingness to develop other services in the public
interest, the criminal and civil enforcement record of the company and its
principals, the degree of business experience in cable television or other
activities, and the willingness to engage in creative and aggressive affirmative action. Id., at 98a, 10la-102a, 105a, 108a-109a. Respondent did not
submit a bid in response to this solicitation, and the franchise was eventually awarded to another cable operator.

OCTOBER TERM, 1985
Opinion of the Court

476 U. S.

the California Constitution, and certain provisions of state
law. Id., at 11a-19a.
The City did not deny that there was excess physical capacity to accommodate more than one cable television system. But it argued that the physical scarcity of available
space on public utility structures, the limits of economic demand for the cable medium, and the practical and esthetic
disruptive effect that installing and maintaining a cable system has on the public right-of-way justified its decision to
restrict access to its facilities to a single cable television
company. 754 F. 2d, at 1401.
The District Court dismissed the free speech claim without
leave to amend for failure to state a claim upon which relief
could be granted. See Fed. Rule Civ. Proc. 12(b)(6). It
also dismissed the antitrust claims, reasoning that petitioners
were immune from antitrust liability under the state-action
doctrine of Parkerv. Brown, 317 U. S. 341 (1963). Finally,
it declined to exercise pendent jurisdiction over the remaining state claims.
The Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit affirmed in part
and reversed in part. 754 F. 2d 1396 (1985). It upheld the
conclusion that petitioners were immune from liability under
the federal antitrust laws. Id., at 1411-1415. But it reversed the District Court's dismissal of the First Amendment
claim, and remanded for further proceedings. Id., at 14011411. It held that, taking the allegations in the complaint
as true, id., at 1399, the City violated the First Amendment
by refusing to issue a franchise to more than one cable television company when there was sufficient excess physical and
economic capacity to accommodate more than one. Id., at
1401-1405, 1411. The Court of Appeals expressed the view
that the facts alleged in the complaint brought respondent
into the ambit of cases such as Miami Herald PublishingCo.
v. Tornillo, 418 U. S. 241 (1974), rather than of cases such as
Red Lion Broadcasting Co. v. FCC, 395 U. S. 367 (1969),

LOS ANGELES v. PREFERRED COMMUNICATIONS, INC.
488

493

Opinion of the Court

and Members of City Council v. Taxpayers for Vincent, 466
U. S. 789 (1984). 754 F. 2d, at 1403-1411.
We agree with the Court of Appeals that respondent's
complaint should not have been dismissed, and we therefore
affirm the judgment of that court; but we do so on a narrower
ground than the one taken by it. The well-pleaded facts in
the complaint include allegations of sufficient excess physical
capacity and economic demand for cable television operators
in the area which respondent sought to serve. 2 The City,
while admitting the existence of excess physical capacity on
the utility poles, the rights-of-way, and the like, justifies
the limit on franchises in terms of minimizing the demand
that cable systems make for the use of public property. The
City characterizes these uses as the stringing of "nearly 700
miles of hanging and buried wire and other appliances necessary for the operation of its system." Brief for Petitioners 12. The City also characterizes them as "a permanent
visual blight," ibid., and adds that the process of installation
and repair of such a system in effect subjects city facilities
designed for other purposes to a servitude which will cause
traffic delays and hazards and esthetic unsightliness. Respondent in its turn replies that the City does not "provide
anything more than speculations and assumptions," and that
the City's "legitimate concerns are easily satisfied without
the need to limit the right to speak to a single speaker."
Brief for Respondent 9.
We of course take the well-pleaded allegations of the complaint as true for the purpose of a motion to dismiss, see,
e. g., Kugler v. Helfant, 421 U. S. 117, 125-126, n. 5 (1975).
Ordinarily such a motion frames a legal issue such as the one
which the Court of Appeals undertook to decide in this case.
2

They also include allegations that the City imposes numerous other

conditions upon a successful applicant for a franchise. It is claimed that,
entirely apart from the limitation of franchises to one in each area, these
conditions violate respondent's First Amendment rights. The Court of
Appeals did not reach these contentions, and neither do we.

OCTOBER TERM, 1985
Opinion of the Court

476 U. S.

But this case is different from a case between private litigants for two reasons: first, it is an action of a municipal corporation taken pursuant to a city ordinance that is challenged
here, and, second, the ordinance is challenged on colorable
First Amendment grounds. The City has adduced essentially factual arguments to justify the restrictions on cable
franchising imposed by its ordinance, but the factual assertions of the City are disputed at least in part by respondent.
We are unwilling to decide the legal questions posed by the
parties without a more thoroughly developed record of
proceedings in which the parties have an opportunity to
prove those disputed factual assertions upon which they rely.
We do think that the activities in which respondent allegedly seeks to engage plainly implicate First Amendment
interests. Respondent alleges:
"The business of cable television, like that of newspapers
and magazines, is to provide its subscribers with a mixture of news, information and entertainment. As do
newspapers, cable television companies use a portion of
their available space to reprint (or retransmit) the communications of others, while at the same time providing
some original content." App. 3a.
Thus, through original programming or by exercising editorial discretion over which stations or programs to include in
its repertoire, respondent seeks to communicate messages on
a wide variety of topics and in a wide variety of formats. We
recently noted that cable operators exercise "a significant
amount of editorial discretion regarding what their programming will include." FCC v. Midwest Video Corp., 440 U. S.
689, 707 (1979). Cable television partakes of some of the aspects of speech and the communication of ideas as do the traditional enterprises of newspaper and book publishers, public
speakers, and pamphleteers. Respondent's proposed activities would seem to implicate First Amendment interests as
do the activities of wireless broadcasters, which were found

LOS ANGELES v. PREFERRED COMMUNICATIONS, INC.
488

495

Opinion of the Court

to fall within the ambit of the First Amendment in Red Lion
Broadcasting Co. v. FCC, supra, at 386, even though the
free speech aspects of the wireless broadcasters' claim were
found to be outweighed by the Government interests in regulating by reason of the scarcity of available frequencies.
Of course, the conclusion that respondent's factual allegations implicate protected speech does not end the inquiry.
"Even protected speech is not equally permissible in all
places and at all times." Cornelius v. NAACP Legal Defense & Educational Fund, Inc., 473 U. S. 788, 799 (1985).
Moreover, where speech and conduct are joined in a single
course of action, the First Amendment values must be balanced against competing societal interests. See, e. g., Members of City Council v. Taxpayers for Vincent, supra, at
805-807; United States v. O'Brien, 391 U. S. 367, 376-377
(1968). We do not think, however, that it is desirable to express any more detailed views on the proper resolution of the
First Amendment question raised by respondent's complaint
and the City's responses to it without a fuller development of
the disputed issues in the case. We think that we may know
more than we know now about how the constitutional issues
should be resolved when we know more about the present
uses of the public utility poles and rights-of-way and how
respondent proposes to install and maintain its facilities on
them.
The City claims that no such trial of the issues is required,
because the City need not "generate a legislative record" in
enacting ordinances which would grant one franchise for each
area of the City. Brief for Petitioners 44. "Whether a limitation on the number of franchises ...

is 'reasonable,"' the

City continues, "thus cannot turn on a review of historical
facts." Id., at 45. The City supports its contention in this
regard by citation to cases such as United States Railroad
Retirement Board v. Fritz, 449 U. S. 166, 179 (1980), and
Schweiker v. Wilson, 450 U. S. 221, 236-237 (1981). Brief
for Petitioners 45, n. 52.

OCTOBER TERM, 1985
BLACKMUN,

J., concurring

476 U. S.

The flaw in the City's argument is that both Fritz and Wilson involved Fifth Amendmefit equal protection challenges to
legislation, rather than challenges under the First Amendment. Where a law is subjected to a colorable First Amendment challenge, the rule of rationality which will sustain legislation against other constitutional challenges typically does
not have the same controlling force. But cf. Ohralik v. Ohio
State Bar Assn., 436 U. S. 447, 459 (1978). This Court "may
not simply assume that the ordinance will always advance the
asserted state interests sufficiently to justify its abridgment
of expressive activity." Taxpayers for Vincent, 466 U. S.,
at 803, n. 22; Landmark Communications, Inc v. Virginia,
435 U. S. 829, 843-844 (1978).
We affirm the judgment of the Court of Appeals reversing
the dismissal of respondent's complaint by the District Court,
and remand the case to the District Court so that petitioners
may file an answer and the material factual disputes between
the parties may be resolved.
It is so ordered.
JUSTICE BLACKMUN, with whom JUSTICE MARSHALL and

join, concurring.
I join the Court's opinion on the understanding that it
leaves open the question of the proper standard for judging
First Amendment challenges to a municipality's restriction of
access to cable facilities. Different communications media
are treated differently for First Amendment purposes.
Compare, e. g., Miami Herald Publishing Co. v. Tornillo,
418 U. S. 241 (1974), with FCC v. League of Women Voters
of California,468 U. S. 364, 380 (1984). In assessing First
Amendment claims concerning cable access, the Court must
determine whether the characteristics of cable television
make it sufficiently analogous to another medium to warrant
application of an already existing standard or whether those
characteristics require a new analysis. As this case arises
out of a motion to dismiss, we lack factual information about
the nature of cable television. Recognizing these considerJUSTICE O'CONNOR

LOS ANGELES v. PREFERRED COMMUNICATIONS, INC.
488

BLACKMUN, J.,

497

concurring

ations, ante, at 493-494, the Court does not attempt to choose
or justify any particular standard. It simply concludes that,
in challenging Los Angeles' policy of exclusivity in cable franchising, respondent alleges a cognizable First Amendment
claim.

