SQUARE D CO. v. NIAGARA FRONTIER TARIFF BUR.

409

Syllabus

SQUARE D CO. ET AL. v. NIAGARA FRONTIER

TARIFF BUREAU, INC., ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SECOND CIRCUIT
No. 85-21.

Argued March 3, 1986-Decided May 27, 1986

Petitioner shippers brought class actions in Federal District Court against
respondent motor carriers and respondent ratemaking bureau, alleging
that during the years 1966 through 1981 respondents engaged in a conspiracy, in violation of the Sherman Act, to fix rates for transporting
freight between the United States and Canada without complying with
an agreement filed by the bureau with, and approved by, the Interstate
Commerce Commission. Petitioners sought treble damages, measured
by the difference between the allegedly higher rates they paid and the
rates they would have paid in a freely competitive market, and also
sought declaratory and injunctive relief. The District Court dismissed
the complaints on the authority of Keogh v. Chicago & Northwestern
R. Co., 260 U. S. 156, wherein it was held that a private shipper could
not recover treble damages under § 7 of the Sherman Act in connection
with ICC-filed tariffs. The Court of Appeals affirmed the dismissal as
to the treble-damages claims.
Held: Petitioners are not entitled to bring a treble-damages antitrust
action. Keogh, supra. Pp. 415-423.
(a) Nothing in the Reed-Bulwinkle Act or in its legislative history indicates that Congress intended to change or supplant the Keogh rule.
Similarly, there is no evidence that Congress in enacting the Motor Carrier Act of 1980 intended to change the Keogh rule. And cases like Carnation Co. v. Pacific Westbound Conference, 383 U. S. 213, emphasizing
the necessity to strictly construe immunity of collective ratemaking activities from antitrust laws, do not render Keogh invalid. Pp. 417-422.
(b) The various developments that have occurred since Keogh-the
development of class actions, the emergence of precedents permitting
treble damages even when there is an available regulatory remedy,
greater sophistication in evaluating damages, and the development of
procedures in which judicial proceedings can be stayed pending regulatory proceedings-are insufficient to overcome the strong presumption
of continued validity that adheres in the judicial interpretation of a
statute. P. 423.
760 F. 2d 1347, affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1985
Opinion of the Court

476 U. S.

STEVENS, J., delivered the opinion of the Court, in which BURGER,
C. J., and BRENNAN, WHITE, BLACKMUN, POWELL, REHNQUIST, and

O'CONNOR, JJ., joined.
p. 424.

MARSHALL, J., filed a dissenting opinion, post,

Douglas V. Rigler argued the cause for petitioners. With
him on the briefs were Linda Heller Kamm, Michael Fischer, Joseph E. Zdarsky, H. Laddie Montague, Arnold
Levin, and Howard Sedran.
Deputy Solicitor General Wallace argued the cause for the
United States as amicus curiae urging reversal. With him
on the brief were Solicitor General Fried,Assistant Attorney
General Ginsburg, Deputy Assistant Attorney General Cannon, Jerrold J. Ganzfried, Robert B. Nicholson, Robert
S. Burk, Henri F. Rush, Timm L. Abendroth, and Jim J.
Marquez.
Donald L. Flexner argued the cause for respondents.
With him on the brief were Clifton S. Elgarten, Peter A.
Greene, Charles L. Freed, John W. Bryant, Bryce Rea, Jr.,
Donald E. Cross, Lester M. Bridgeman, Louis E. Emery,
and Joel B. Harris.*
JUSTICE STEVENS delivered the opinion for the Court.
Petitioners have alleged that rates filed with the Interstate
Commerce Commission by respondent motor carriers during
the years 1966 through 1981 were fixed pursuant to an agreement forbidden by the Sherman Act, 26 Stat. 209, as
amended, 15 U. S. C. § 1 et seq. The question presented is
whether the carriers are subject to treble-damages liability in
a private antitrust action if the allegation is true.
*Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the Association
of American Railroads by Richard T. Conway, Ralph J. Moore, Jr., John
Townsend Rich, Stephen J. Hadley, and Kenneth P. Kolson; and for the
National Motor Freight Traffic Association, Inc., et al. by Patrick McEligot, William W. Pugh, and Kevin M. Williams.
Briefs of amici curiae were filed for American Information Technologies
Corp. et al. by J. Paul McGrath; for C. D. Ambrosia Trucking Co., Inc.,
et al. by Lawrence R. Velvel and Bruce J. Ennis, Jr.; and for the Western
Fuels Association, Inc., et al. by Frederick L. Miller, Jr.

SQUARE D CO. v. NIAGARA FRONTIER TARIFF BUR.
409

411

Opinion of the Court

The question requires us to give careful consideration to
the way in which Congress has accommodated the sometimes
conficting policies of the antitrust laws and the Interstate
Commerce Act, 49 U. S. C. § 10101 et seq. (1982 ed. and
Supp. II). Our analysis of the question will include three
components: (1) the sufficiency of the complaint allegations in
light of the bare language of the relevant statutes; (2) the impact of the Court's decision of an analogous question in 1922
in Keogh v. Chicago & Northwestern R. Co., 260 U. S. 156;
and (3) the extent to which the rule of the Keogh case remains
part of our law today.
I
Two class-action complaints making parallel allegations
against the same six defendants were filed in the United
States District Court for the District of Columbia and then
transferred to Buffalo, New York, where a similar action
brought by the United States was pending. The Government case was ultimately settled by the entry of a consent
decree;' after the two private actions had been consolidated,
the District Court granted a motion to dismiss the complaints. We therefore take the well-pleaded facts as true.2
Five of the respondents are Canadian motor carriers engaged in the transportation of freight between the United
States and Canada. They are subject to regulation by the
Ontario Highway Transport Board, and by the Interstate
IThe consent decree enjoins respondents from "harassing, discouraging,
coercing, or threatening in any way any motor carrier to withdraw, forbear
from filing, or modify in any way said carrier's planned or actual independent rates," and from discussing rates except "within an authorized
ratemaking body of a rate bureau with a rate agreement." United States
v. Niagara Frontier Tariff Bureau, Inc., 1984-2 Trade Cases 66,167,
pp. 66,533-66,535 (WDNY 1984).
'See Hishon v. King & Spalding, 467 U. S. 69, 73 (1984); McLain v.
Real Estate Bd. of New Orleans,444 U. S. 232, 246 (1980); Hospital Building Co. v. Trustees of Rex Hospital, 425 U. S. 738, 746 (1976); Scheuer v.
Rhodes, 416 U. S. 232, 236 (1974); Conley v. Gibson, 355 U. S. 41, 45-46
(1957).

OCTOBER TERM, 1985
Opinion of the Court

476 U. S.

Commerce Commission (ICC). They are all members of the
Niagara Frontier Tariff Bureau, Inc. (NFTB), which is also
a defendant. NFTB is a nonprofit corporation organized
to engage in collective ratemaking activities pursuant to an
agreement filed with and approved by the ICC.3
Petitioners are corporations that have utilized respondents' services to ship goods between the United States and
Canada for many years. In their complaints, they allege
that, at least as early as 1966 and continuing at least into
1981, respondents engaged in a conspiracy "to fix, raise and
maintain prices and to inhibit or eliminate competition for
the transportation of freight by motor carrier between the
United States and the Province of Ontario, Canada without
complying with the terms of the NFTB agreement and by
otherwise engaging in conduct that either was not or could
not be approved by the ICC."I
The complaints allege five specific actions in furtherance of
this conspiracy. First, senior management officials of the
NFTB used a "Principals Committee," which was not authorized by the NFTB agreement, to set rates and to inhibit
competition.5 Second, respondents set and controlled NFTB
rate levels without complying with the notice, publication,
public hearing, and recordkeeping requirements of the
NFTB agreement and ICC regulations.' Third, respondents planned threats, retaliation, and coercion against NFTB
members to inhibit independent actions.7 Fourth, respondents actually used pressures, threats, and retaliation to inter' See Niagara Frontier Tariff Bureau, Inc. -Agreement,
494
(1955).
4
Square D complaint, 22, App. 11; Big D complaint, 19,
'Square D complaint, 23(a), App. 12; Big D complaint,
24.
6Square D complaint,
23(b), App. 12; Big D complaint,
24.
'Square D complaint, 23(c), App. 12; Big D complaint,

297 I. C. C.
App. 24.
20(a), App.
20(b), App.
20(c), App.

SQUARE D CO. v. NIAGARA FRONTIER TARIFF BUR.
409

413

Opinion of the Court

fere with independent actions. 8 Finally, still in furtherance
of the conspiracy, respondents filed tariffs with the ICC. 9
Because of respondents' unlawful conduct, the complaints
continue, petitioners and the members of the large class
of shippers that they represent have paid higher rates for
motor carrier freight transport than they would have paid in
a freely competitive market.1" They seek treble damages
measured by that difference, as well as declaratory and injunctive relief.
The legal theory of the complaints is that respondents'
conspiracy is not exempted from a private antitrust, trebledamages action even though the rates that respondents
charged were filed with the ICC, as required by law. The
complaints note that the ICC requires motor carriers to file
tariffs containing all their rates, to make the tariffs available for public inspection, and to give advance notice of any
changes in the filed rates." Although the ICC has the power
to determine those rates, the rates are set by the carriers,
not the ICC, in the first instance.'
The Reed-Bulwinkle
Act, enacted in 1948, expressly authorizes the ICC to grant
approval to agreements establishing rate bureaus for the purpose of setting rates collectively." The joint setting of rates
pursuant to such agreements is exempted from the antitrust
laws, but the statute strictly limits the exemption to actions
that conform to the terms of the agreement approved by the
I Square D complaint, 23(d), App. 12; Big D complaint, 20(d), App.
25.
'Square D complaint, 23(e), App. 12; Big D complaint, 20(e), App.
25.
1°Square D complaint,
24(a)-(d), App. 12-13; Big D complaint,
21(a)-(c), App. 25.
11Square D complaint, 16, App. 9 (citing 49 U. S. C. § 10762); Big D
complaint, 13, App. 22 (same).
"Square D complaint, 16, App. 9 (citing 49 U. S. C. § 10704); Big D
complaint, 13, App. 22 (same).
1"Square D complaint, 17, App. 10 (citing 49 U. S. C. § 5b, now codified at 49 U. S. C. § 10706(b)(2)); Big D complaint, 14, App. 22 (same).

OCTOBER TERM, 1985
Opinion of the Court

ICC. 14

476 U. S.

In this case, according to the theory of the com-

plaints, the activities of respondents were not authorized by
the NFTB agreement; hence the alleged conspiracy was not
exempt from the antitrust laws, and, indeed, blatantly violated those laws.
Under the plain language of the relevant statutes, it would
appear that petitioners have alleged a valid antitrust action.
The stated activities are clearly within the generally applicable language of the antitrust laws; 15 nothing in the language
of the Interstate Commerce Act, moreover, necessarily precludes a private antitrust treble-damages remedy for actions
that are not specifically immunized within the terms of the
Reed-Bulwinkle Act.16

The District Court nevertheless dismissed the complaints
on the authority of the Keogh case. 596 F. Supp. 153
(WDNY 1984). The Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit
affirmed insofar as the District Court's judgment dismissed
the claims for treble damages based on respondents' filed
rates, but remanded for a further hearing to determine
whether petitioners are entitled to injunctive relief and to
give them an opportunity to amend their complaints to state
possible claims for damages not arising from the filed tariffs.
760 F. 2d 1347 (1985). We granted certiorari to consider
whether the rule of the Keogh case was correctly applied in
barring a treble-damages action based on the fied tariffs, and,
14 Under the Reed-Bulwinkle Act, as currently codified, "[i]f the [Interstate Commerce] Commission approves the agreement, it may be made
and carried out under its terms and under the conditions required by the
Commission, and the antitrust laws, as defined in the first section of the
Clayton Act (15 U. S. C. 12), do not apply to parties and other persons
with respect to making or carrying out the agreement."

49 U. S. C.

§ 10706(b)(2).
"See, e. g., 15 U. S. C. § 1 ("Every contract, combination in the form of
trust or otherwise, or conspiracy, in restraint of trade or commerce among
the several States, or with foreign nations, is declared to be illegal").
"See n. 14, supra.

SQUARE D CO. v. NIAGARA FRONTIER TARIFF BUR.
409

415

Opinion of the Court

if so, whether that case should be overruled.
(1985).

474 U. S. 815

II

In Keogh, as in this case, a shipper's complaint alleged that
rates filed with the ICC by the defendants had been fixed
pursuant to an agreement prohibited by the Sherman Act.
The rates had been set by an agreement among executives
of railroad companies "which would otherwise be competing
carriers," 260 U. S., at 160. They were "higher than the
rates would have been if competition had not been thus eliminated." Ibid. The shipper claimed treble damages measured by the difference between the rates set pursuant to
agreement and those that had previously been in effect.
In their special plea, defendants averred that every rate
complained of had been fied with the ICC and that, after
hearings in which Keogh had participated, the rates had been
approved by the Commission. That approval established that
the fixed rates were "reasonable and non-discriminatory,"
id., at 161, but it did not foreclose the possibility that slightly
lower rates would also have been within the zone of reasonableness that the Commission would also have found lawful
under the Interstate Commerce Act. Nor did the ICC's
approval require rejection of Keogh's contention that the
combination among the railroads violated the Sherman Act. 7
The Court nevertheless held that Keogh, a private shipper,
could not "recover damages under §7 because he lost the benthe rates fixed were reasonable and non-discriminatory. That
'""All
was settled by the proceedings before the Commission. Los Angeles
Switching Case, 234 U. S. 294. But under the Anti-Trust Act, a combination of carriers to fix reasonable and non-discriminatory rates may be illegal; and if so, the Government may have redress by criminal proceedings
under § 3, by injunction under §4, and by forfeiture under § 6. That was
settled by United States v. Trans-MissouriFreightAssociation, 166 U. S.
290, and United States v. Joint Traffic Association, 171 U. S. 505. The
fact that these rates had been approved by the Commission would not, it
seems, bar proceedings by the Government." 260 U. S., at 161-162.

OCTOBER TERM, 1985
Opinion of the Court

476 U. S.

efit of rates still lower, which, but for the conspiracy, he
would have enjoyed." Id., at 162.
The Court reasoned that the ICC's approval had, in effect,
established the lawfulness of the defendant's rates, 8 and that
the legal right of the shippers against the carrier had to be
measured by the published tariff. It therefore concluded
that the shipper could not have been "injured in his business
or property" within the meaning of § 7 of the Sherman Act by
paying the carrier the rate that had been approved by the
ICC. Justice Brandeis explained:
"Section 7 of the Anti-Trust Act gives a right of action
to one who has been 'injured in his business or property.'
Injury implies violation of a legal right. The legal rights
of shipper as against carrier in respect to a rate are
measured by the published tariff. Unless and until suspended or set aside, this rate is made, for all purposes,
the legal rate, as between carrier and shipper. The
8

A rate is not necessarily illegal because it is the result of a conspiracy
in restraint of trade in violation of the Anti-Trust Act. What rates are
legal is determined by the Act to Regulate Commerce. Under § 8 of the
latter act the exaction of any illegal rate makes the carrier liable to the
'person injured thereby for the full amount of damages sustained in consequence of any such violation' together with a reasonable attorney's fee.
Sections 9 and 16 provide for the recovery of such damages either by complaint before the Commission or by an action in a federal court. If the conspiracy here complained of had resulted in rates which the Commission
found to be illegal because unreasonably high or discriminatory, the full
amount of the damages sustained, whatever their nature, would have been
recoverable in such proceedings. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v.
Ohio Valley Tie Co., 242 U. S. 288. Can it be that Congress intended to
provide the shipper, from whom illegal rates have been exacted, with an
additional remedy under the Anti-Trust Act? See Meeker v. Lehigh Valley R. R. Co., 162 Fed. 354. And if no remedy under the Anti-Trust Law
is given where the injury results from the fixing of rates which are illegal,
because too high or discriminatory, may it be assumed that Congress intended to give such a remedy where, as here, the rates complained of have
been found by the Commission to be legal and while in force had to be collected by the carrier?" Id., at 162.

SQUARE D CO. v. NIAGARA FRONTIER TARIFF BUR.
409

417

Opinion of the Court

rights as defined by the tariff cannot be varied or enlarged by either contract or tort of the carrier. Texas &
Pacific R. R. Co. v. Mugg, 202 U. S. 242; Louisville &
Nashville R. R. Co. v. Maxwell, 237 U. S. 94; Atchison,
Topeka & Santa Fe Ry. Co. v. Robinson, 233 U. S. 173;
Dayton Iron Co. v. Cincinnati, New Orleans & Texas
Pacific Ry. Co., 239 U. S. 446; Erie R. R. Co. v. Stone,
244 U. S. 332. And they are not affected by the tort of
a third party. Compare Pittsburgh, Cincinnati, Chicago & St. Louis Ry. Co. v. Fink, 250 U. S.577. This
stringent rule prevails, because otherwise the paramount purpose of Congress -prevention of unjust discrimination-might be defeated." Id., at 163.
In this case, unlike Keogh, respondents' rates, established
in the tariffs that had been filed with the ICC, were not challenged in a formal ICC hearing before they were allowed to
go into effect. They were, however, duly submitted, lawful
rates under the Interstate Commerce Act in the same sense
that the rates filed in Keogh were lawful. Under the Court's
holding in that case, it therefore follows that petitioners may
not bring a treble-damages antitrust action. 9 The question,
then, is whether we should continue to respect the rule of
Keogh.
III
Petitioners, supported by the Solicitor General of the
United States, ask us to overrule Keogh. They submit that
"1In their brief, petitioners argue that, even under Keogh, their trebledamages action should not have been dismissed because there was no ICC
hearing in this case and because Keogh did not involve allegations of the
type of covert legal violations at issue here. Brief for Petitioners 10-11.
The Court of Appeals, however, properly concluded that Keogh was not
susceptible to such a narrow reading: "Rather than limiting its holding
to cases where, as in Keogh, rates had been investigated and approved by
the ICC, the Court said broadly that shippers could not recover trebledamages for overcharges whenever tariffs have been filed." 760 F. 2d, at
1351.

OCTOBER TERM, 1985
Opinion of the Court

476 U. S.

Keogh was implicitly rejected in the Reed-Bulwinkle Act and

in the Motor Carrier Act of 1980, Pub. L. 96-296, 94 Stat.
793; that Keogh in effect created an implied immunity from

the antitrust laws and that its reasoning is thus inconsistent
with later cases, particularly CarnationCo. v. Pacific Westbound Conference, 383 U. S. 213 (1966); and that the rationales of the Keogh decision are no longer valid.

Petitioners argue that the Reed-Bulwinkle Act, by delineating an antitrust immunity for specific ratemaking activities, I repudiated Keogh's holding that shippers may not bring
treble-damages actions in connection with ICC-filed tariffs.
In our view, however, it is not proper to read that statute as
supplanting the Keogh rule with a narrow, express exemption from the antitrust laws.
The legislative history of Reed-Bulwinkle explains that

it was enacted, at least in part, in response to this Court's
decision in Georgia v. Pennsylvania R. Co., 324 U. S. 439
(1945).21 In that case, after restating the holding in Keogh,
the Court held that, although Georgia could not maintain a
suit under the antitrust laws to obtain damages, it could ob-

tain injunctive relief against the collective ratemaking procedures employed by the railroads.'

The Reed-Bulwinkle Act

See ch. 491, 62 Stat. 472, now codified at 49 U. S. C. § 10706(b).
See, e. g., H. R. Rep. No. 1100, 80th Cong., 1st Sess., 4 (1947) (citing
"[t]he Georgia suit" and other cases, and emphasizing "[t]hese developments have caused grave concern among all those having direct interest in
transportation, who see in the situation a threat to long-standing practices
in the transportation industry that were developed in cooperation with the
shippers and have proved their worth"). See also 760 F. 2d, at 1356-1360
(reviewing legislative history of Reed-Bulwinkle Act).
I "We think it is clear from the Keogh case alone that Georgia may
not recover damages even if the conspiracy alleged were shown to exist.
That was a suit for damages under § 7 of the Sherman Act. 26 Stat. 210.
The Court recognized that although the rates fixed had been found reasonable and non-discriminatory by the Commission, the United States was
not barred from enforcing the remedies of the Sherman Act. 260 U. S.
pp. 161-162. It held, however, that for purposes of a suit for damages a
rate was not necessarily illegal because it was the result of a conspiracy in
restraint of trade. The legal rights of a shipper against a carrier in re21

SQUARE D CO. v. NIAGARA FRONTIER TARIFF BUR.
409

419

Opinion of the Court

thus created an absolute immunity from the antitrust laws
for approved collective ratemaking activities.
Nothing in the Act or in its legislative history, however,
indicates that Congress intended to change or supplant the
Keogh rule that other tariff-related claims, while subject to
governmental and injunctive antitrust actions, did not give
rise to treble-damages antitrust actions. On the contrary,
the House Report expressly stated that, except for creating
the new exemption, the bill left the antitrust laws applicable
to carriers unchanged "so far as they are now applicable.""
Particularly because the legislative history reveals clear congressional awareness of Keogh,' far from supporting petitioners' position, the fact that Congress specifically addressed this area and left Keogh undisturbed lends powerful
support to Keogh's continued viability.
Similarly, petitioners and the Solicitor General argue that
private treble-damages actions would further the congressional policy of promoting competition in the transportation
industry reflected in the Motor Carrier Act of 1980.
We
spect to a rate are to be measured by the published tariff. That rate until
suspended or set aside was for all purposes the legal rate as between shipper and carrier and may not be varied or enlarged either by the contract
or tort of the carrier. .

.

. The reasoning and precedent of that case

apply with full force here. But it does not dispose of the main prayer
of the bill, stressed at the argument, which asks for relief by way of injunction." 324 U. S., at 453.
1 "The bill here reported leaves the antitrust laws to apply with full
force and effect to carriers, so far as they are now applicable, except as to
such joint agreements or arrangements between them as may have been
submitted to the Interstate Commerce Commission and approved by that
body upon a finding that, by reason of furtherance of the national transportation policy as declared in the Interstate Commerce Act, relief from the
antitrust laws should be granted." H. R. Rep. No. 1100, 80th Cong., 2d
Sess., 5 (1947) (emphasis added).
" See 760 F. 2d, at 1359-1360 (reviewing attention to Keogh in the congressional consideration of the the Reed-Bulwinkle Act).
'As we recently pointed out, the "legislative history of the Act is clear
that, beyond the bounds of immunity granted in § 10706(b)(3), Congress
wanted the forces of competition to determine motor-carrier tariffs." ICC
v. American Trucking Assns., Inc., 467 U. S.354, 367 (1984). See also

OCTOBER TERM, 1985
Opinion of the Court

476 U. S.

may assume that this is the case-indeed, we may assume
that petitioners are correct in arguing that the Keogh decision
was unwise as a matter of policy-but it nevertheless remains
true that Congress must be presumed to have been fully cognizant of this interpretation of the statutory scheme,26 which
had been a significant part of our settled law for over half a
century, and that Congress did not see fit to change it when
Congress carefully reexamined this area of the law in 1980.
Petitioners have pointed to no specific statutory provision or
legislative history indicating a specific congressional intention
to overturn the longstanding Keogh construction; 27 harmony
with the general legislative purpose is inadequate for that
formidable task.
Petitioners' reliance on Carnation Co. v. Pacific Westbound Conference, 383 U. S. 213 (1966), is also unavailing.
In Carnation,a shipper of evaporated milk brought an antitrust treble-damages action against an association of shipping
companies that had established higher rates for transportation between the west coast of the United States and the
Philippine Islands. The defendants contended that the Shipping Act of 1916 had repealed all antitrust regulation of ratemaking activities in the shipping industry. Section 15 of the
Shipping Act did create an express exemption for collective
H. R. Rep. No. 96-1069, pp. 27-28 (1980); 126 Cong. Rec. 7777 (1980)
(statement of Sen. Cannon).
I See Cannon v. University of Chicago, 441 U. S. 677, 696-697 (1979)
("It is always appropriate to assume that our elected representatives, like
other citizens, know the law"). See also Director,OWCP v. PeriniNorth
River Associates, 459 U. S. 297, 319 (1983); Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner
& Smith, Inc. v. Curran, 456 U. S. 353, 379 (1982); Albernaz v. United
States, 450 U. S. 333, 341 (1981).
'The Motor Carrier Act did change the terms of the Reed-Bulwinkle
Act in significant respects, see ICC v. American Trucking Assns., Inc.,
467 U. S., at 356-357, but it did not address the Keogh rule. For the same
reasons that the creation of the Reed-Bulwinkle exemption did not affect
Keogh, the reworking of that exemption in the Motor Carrier Act also did
not affect the rule of that case.

SQUARE D CO. v. NIAGARA FRONTIER TARIFF BUR.
409

421

Opinion of the Court

ratemaking pursuant to agreements that had been approved
by the Federal Maritime Commission, but the defendants had
not obtained any such approval. They nevertheless contended that the structure of the entire Shipping Act, read
against its legislative history, demonstrated an intent to free
the ratemaking activities of the shipping industry from the
antitrust laws. The Court unanimously rejected the argument, explaining:
"We recently said: 'Repeals of the antitrust laws by
implication from a regulatory statute are strongly disfavored, and have only been found in cases of plain repugnancy between the antitrust and regulatory provisions.'
United States v. PhiladelphiaNational Bank, 374 U. S.
321, 350-351. We have long recognized that the antitrust laws represent a fundamental national economic
policy and have therefore concluded that we cannot
lightly assume that the enactment of a special regulatory
scheme for particular aspects of an industry was intended
to render the more general provisions of the antitrust
laws wholly inapplicable to that industry. We have,
therefore, declined to construe special industry regulations as an implied repeal of the antitrust laws even when
the regulatory statute did not contain an accommodation
provision such as the exemption provisions of the Shipping and Agricultural Acts. See, e. g., United States v.
PhiladelphiaNational Bank, supra." Id., at 217-218.
Petitioners correctly point out that cases like Carnation
make it clear that collective ratemaking activities are not immunized from antitrust scrutiny simply because they occur in
a regulated industry, and that exemptions from the antitrust
laws are strictly construed and strongly disfavored. Nevertheless, even if we agreed that Keogh should be viewed as
an "antitrust immunity" case, we would not conclude that
later cases emphasizing the necessity to strictly construe
such immunity rendered Keogh invalid. For Keogh repre-

OCTOBER TERM, 1985
Opinion of the Court

476 U. S.

sents a longstanding statutory construction that Congress
has consistently refused to disturb, even when revisiting this
specific area of law.
We disagree, however, with petitioners' view that the
issue in Keogh and in this case is properly characterized as
an "immunity" question. The alleged collective activities
of the defendants in both cases were subject to scrutiny
under the antitrust laws by the Government and to possible
criminal sanctions or equitable relief. Keogh simply held
that an award of treble damages is not an available remedy
for a private shipper claiming that the rate submitted to, and
approved by, the ICC was the product of an antitrust violation. Such a holding is far different from the creation of an
antitrust immunity,21 and makes the challenge to Keogh's role
in the settled law of this area still more doubtful.!'
In so characterizing the issue, we do not minimize the powerful role of
the private treble-damages action in the structure of the Nation's antitrust
laws. See, e. g., Mitsubishi Motors Corp. v. Soler Chrysler-Plymouth,
Inc., 473 U. S. 614, 635 (1985) ("The treble-damages provision wielded
by the private litigant is a chief tool in the antitrust enforcement scheme,
posing a crucial deterrent to potential violators"). Granting this role its
due respect, however, a critical distinction remains between an absolute
immunity from all antitrust scrutiny and a far more limited nonavailability
of the private treble-damages remedy. The consent decree in this case,
n. 1, supra, as well as the unchallenged Court of Appeals decision to remand on the question of injunctive and declaratory relief for antitrust violations highlight this distinction: respondents' conduct has consistently
been within the reach of the generally applicable antitrust laws.
The specific Keogh holding, moreover, was not even implicated in Carnation Co. v. Pacific Westbound Conference, 383 U. S.213 (1966), because
the ratemaking agreements challenged in that case had not been approved
by, or filed with, the Federal Maritime Commission. Id., at 215. Indeed,
the Shipping Act gives the Federal Maritime Commission far more limited
authority over rates than the Interstate Commerce Act gives the ICC.
See 760 F. 2d, at 1363 ("Although the (Federal Maritime Commission] can
and does take effects on competition into account in approving conference
agreements under 46 U. S. C. § 814, . . . the Shipping Act does not give
the Commission any mandate to regulate rate competition and, indeed, the

SQUARE D CO. v. NIAGARA FRONTIER TARIFF BUR.
409

423

Opinion of the Court

Finally, petitioners point to various developments, discussed by the Court of Appeals, that seem to undermine
some of the reasoning in Justice Brandeis' Keogh opinionthe development of class actions, which might alleviate the
expressed concern about unfair rebates;" the emergence of

precedents permitting treble-damages remedies even when
there is a regulatory remedy available; 3 the greater sophis-

tication in evaluating damages, which might mitigate the expressed fears about the speculative nature of such damages;

2

and the development of procedures in which judicial proceedings can be stayed pending regulatory proceedings." Even
if it is true that these developments cast Justice Brandeis'
reasons in a different light, however, it is also true that the
Keogh rule has been an established guidepost at the intersection of the antitrust and interstate commerce statutory regimes for some 6'2 decades. The emergence of subsequent
procedural and judicial developments does not minimize
Keogh's role as an essential element of the settled legal context in which Congress has repeatedly acted in this area.
IV
The Court of Appeals, in Judge Friendly's characteristically thoughtful and incisive opinion, suggested that, in view
statutory scheme was designed to minimize the role of the FMC in this
regard").
See id., at 1352 (discussing development of class actions in view of
the Keogh concern about antitrust litigation operating as a discriminatory
rebate).
See id., at 1354 (noting that "[the Court has subsequently found that
11
activity could be challenged under the antitrust laws despite the existence
of an administrative agency with authority to regulate the activity").
See id., at 1353 ("The Supreme Court has... rejected the argument
that a plaintiff cannot recover damages it was able to pass on to its customers in the antitrust context").
I See ibid. (referring to "the many later cases in which the Supreme
Court has directed the suspension of judicial proceedings pending the referral of similar issues to the ICC" in view of the Keogh concern about the
need for the ICC to determine the propriety of a lower rate).

OCTOBER TERM, 1985
MARSHALL,

J., dissenting

476 U. S.

of subsequent developments, this Court might be prepared to
overrule Keogh. We conclude, however, that the developments in the six decades since Keogh was decided are insufficient to overcome the strong presumption of continued validity that adheres in the judicial interpretation of a statute."'
As Justice Brandeis himself observed, a decade after his
Keogh decision, in commenting on the presumption of stability in statutory interpretation: "Stare decisis is usually the
wise policy because in most matters, it is more important
that the applicable rule of law be settled than that it be settled right .... This is commonly true, even where the error
is a matter of serious concern, provided correction can be had
by legislation." 3 We are especially reluctant to reject this
presumption in an area that has seen careful, intense, and
sustained congressional attention. If there is to be an overruling of the Keogh rule, it must come from Congress, rather
than from this Court.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals is affirmed.
It is so ordered.
dissenting.
In his opinion for the Court of Appeals, Judge Friendly
cogently and comprehensively explained why the reasoning
JUSTICE MARSHALL,

4See, e. g., NLRB v. Longshoremen, 473 U. S. 61, 84 (1985) ("[W]e
should follow the normal presumption of stare decisis in cases of statutory
interpretation"); Illinois Brick Co. v. Illinois, 431 U. S. 720, 736 (1977)
("[W]e must bear in mind that considerations of stare decisis weigh heavily
in the area of statutory construction, where Congress is free to change this
Court's interpretation of its legislation"). See also Levi, An Introduction
to Legal Reasoning, 15 U. Chi. L. Rev. 501, 540 (1948) ("The doctrine of
finality for prior decisions setting the course for the interpretation of a
statute is not always followed. . . . Nevertheless, the doctrine remains
as more than descriptive. More than any other doctrine in the field of
precedent, it has served to limit the freedom of the court. It marks an
essential difference between statutory interpretation on the one hand and
case law and constitutional interpretation on the other").
IBurnet v. Coronado Oil & Gas Co., 285 U. S. 393, 406 (1932)
(dissenting).

SQUARE D CO. v. NIAGARA FRONTIER TARIFF BUR.
409

MARSHALL,

425

J., dissenting

of Keogh v. Chicago & Northwestern R. Co., 260 U. S. 156
(1922), has been rendered obsolete by subsequent developments in the law. He demonstrated that Keogh should be
overruled, and I am persuaded by his analysis. I therefore
dissent.

