592

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

261 U. S.

whom the relators were taken had jurisdiction to try them
for a violation of the ordinance in question, and they are
now legally in custody. The Appellate Division, therefore, properly held that the order of the Special Term was
erroneous, reversed the same, dismissed the Wrrits and
remanded the relators."
It is settled law, that where the record discloses that
the judgment of a state court was based, not alone upon
a ground in~Volving a federal question, but also upon
another and independent ground, broad enough to maintain the judgment, this Court will not take jurisdiction
to review such judgment and will dismiss a writ of error
brought for that purpose. Eustis v. Bolles, 150 U. S. 361,
366; Dibble v. Bellingham Bay Land Co., 163- U. S. 63,
69; Allen v. Arguimbau, 198 U. S. 149;" 155; Adams v.
Russell, 229 U. S. 353; 358; Cuyahoga River Power Co. v.
NorthernRealty Co., 244 U. S. 300, 304.
Hence, as the decision of the Court of Appeals as to the
effect of the writs of habeas corpus was broad enough to
maintain the judgment, independently of its decision as
to the constitutional question, the wtit of error is
Dismissed.
BALTIMORE & OHIO RAILROAD COMPANY v.
UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 305. Argued March 12, 1923.-Decided April 9, 1923.
1. The Dent Act, c. 94, 40 Stat. 1272, was intended to remedy irregularities and-informalities in the mode of entering into the agreements to which it relates; not to enlarge the authority of the agents
by whom they were made. P. 596.
2. The "implied agreement" contemplated by this act is not an
agreement "implied- in law," or quqsi contract, but an agreement
"implied in fact," founded on a meeting of minds inferred, as a
'fact, from conduct of the parties in the light of surrounding circumstances. P. 597.

BALT. & OHIO R.R.v. UNITED STATES.
592

Opinion of the Court.

3. Findings of fact showing that the claimant railway company constructed temporary barracks for' troops, who -were guarding its
property as well as that of the Government, and undertook this
without any order from their commanding, officer, but voluntarily
and without mentioning compensation, apparently from its own
.desire to provide for the comfort of the troops-held an insufficient basis for implying an agreement that the Government would
pay the cost of construction. P. 599.

57 Ct. Cins. 14.0, affirmed..

APPEAL from a judgment of the Court of Claims dismissing the petition, after a hearing upon the merits, in
an action to recover compensation under the Dent Act.
Mr. John F. McCarron, with whom Mr. George E.
Hamilton was on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Solicitor General Beck and -Mr.Alfred A. Wheat,
Special Assistant to the Attorney General, appeared for
the United States.
MR. JUSTIcE SANFORD delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The Railway Company filed its petition, under the
Dent Act (March 2, 1919, c. 94, 40 Stat. 1272), to recover compensation for constructing temporary barracks
for the use of United'States troops under an "implied
agreement" alleged to have been entered into by it with
the United States, in December, 1917, through Col. Kimball, Expeditionary -Quartermaster of the War Department, at Locust Point, Baltimore, Maryland, acting undef
the authofity of the Secretary of War. The Court of
Claims, after a-hearing on the merits, and upon its findings of fact, dismissed the petition. 57 Ct. Clms. 140.
The material facts shown by the findings are these:
The Railroad Company owned at Locust Point, a suburb
of Baltimore, eight piers, which were guarded by its civilian employees. At the request of Col. Kimball, who was

. OCTOBER TERM,- 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

in charge .of the expeditionary depot at Baltimore and of
the supplies arriving for shipment to Eirope, the company, in October, 1917, leased one of these piers to the
!Government. Two of the other piers with much other
property belonging to the company were destroyed or
damaged by a fire supposed to be of incendiary origin.
Thereupon Col.-Kimball and the president of the company separately requested the Secretary of War to send
a guard; the vice president of the company offering to
supply a wrecking train-as quarters for them. Two companies of the National Guard were sent to Locust Point,
with sufficient tentage. They were quartered for a time
in the wrecking train furnished by the company. Their
duty was primarily to protect the government property
and the piers leased by it, sending patrols throughout the
railroad yard to guard cars containing its property, and
generally to guard all the piers and property at Locust
Point. The company, however, also maintained the
civilian guards and a fire department for all of its property, whether leased or not. Later, the wrecking train
having been moved away by the company, the troops
moved into tents. The weather during the fall and winter was very cold and inclement. Most of the soldiers
were Baltimoreans and were frequently visited by their
relatives. There was some sickness among them. Their
relatives complained to the railroad officials of the hardships they had to undergo in the tents; and these officials
were anxious to make them as comfortable as possible.
Several times in very cold weather Col. Kimball remarked
to th company's agent at Locust Point, whose duty it
was to confer with him on railroad matters, that the
troops ought to have better quarters. On one -occasion
this agent suggested fitting up an unused transfer shed
belonging to the company, standing near the pier that
had been leased to the Government. Col. Kimball agreed
that it would be a fine: thing to make the men as com-

BALT. & OHIO R. R. v. UNITED STATES.
592

595

Opinion of the Court.

fortable as possible. He did not, however, ask that this
work be done; and nothing was said about compensation.
This agent having taken up with the company's officials
the matter of fitting-up the transfer shed, its chief'engmneering draftsman was directed to see as to the adaptability of the transfer shed for. barracks. He made blue
print. plans for remodeling the shed' which he showed
to the officer in command of. the troops, to learn whether,
in his opinion, they would satisfactorily house the troops.
This officer, while not undertaking to approve the plans,.
suggested the amount of facilities that would be required.
Nothin&was said to him, however, about expense or compensation for the work. The construction of the'temporary barracks was completed in the latter part of
December; and the troops moved in. Two more piers
were afterwards leased by the company to the Government. The barracks were occupied by the troops until
May, 1919; and the piers were returned to the company
in June, 1919. No government officials connected with
the work at Locust Point had any authority to order the
construction of the temporary barracks; and no orders
were given by any of them for such construction. The
subject of compensation was not mentioned in any conversations between these officers and the railroad officials
until more than a 'weeli after the barracks had been completed, when the chief draftsman told the officer in command of the troops that he thought the Government
should reimburse him for some of his trouble.
- The Court of Claims made no finding as to the amount'
expended by the company in constructing the temporary
barracks; the company having, as the court stafed, submitted no evidence to establish the different items of its
claim.- In the absence of a finding as to the amount of
the expenditures, as to which the company had the burden
of proof, the judgment of the Court of Claims might be
properly affirmed upon that ground. Crocker v. United

596

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
.Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

States, 240 U. S. 74, 82. However, as the Government
does not here question the amount of the claim, we pass
to its further consideration upon the merits.
Upon the findings of fact we conclude that the petition
was rightly dismissed, without reference to the amount
of the claim, for two reasons:
1. The Dent Act authorizes the award of compensation
for expenditures connected with the prosecution of the
war when they were made by the claimant upon the faith
of an "agreement, express or implied," entered into by
him with an officer or agent acting under the authority of
the Secretary of War or of the President, and such agreement was not executed in the manner provided by law.
40 Stat. 1272, 1273; American Smelting & Refining Co. v.
United States, 259 U. S. 75, 79. The act was intended to
remedy irregularities and informalities in the mode of
entering into such agreements; not to enlarge the authority of the agents by whom they were made. To 'entitle
the claimant to compensation under such an- agreement
it is essential that the officer or agent With whom it was
entered into should not.merely have been holding under
the Secretary of War or the President, but that he should
have been acting within the scope of. his authority. It
was not intended, for example, that an -officer in one
branch of the military service or one of" inferior rank
could bind the Government by an agreement as to matters
relating to an entirely different branch of the service or
within the control of his superior officers, as to which he
hdd no authority whatever; or that an agreement into
which he entered, although beyond his authority, should
become binding, upon the Government because it was
made in the form of an express agreement not executed
within the legal manner or of an implied agreement
merely-that is, that his authority should be enlarged by
the irregularity or informality with which it was exercised.
See United States v. North American Transportation &

BALT. & OHIO R. R. v. UNITED STATES.
592

597

Opinion of the Court..

Trading Co., 253 U. S. 330, 333; and PortsmouthHarbor
Land & Hotel Co. v. United States, 260 U. S. 327;
Here, however, there is no finding that Col. Kimball
had any authority to enter into the alleged agreement;
and, on the contrary, such authority is negatived by the
-finding. that none of the government officials connected
with the work at Locust Point had any authority to order
the construction of a temporary barracks.
Hence an esseptial element in the- establishment of the
company's claim is lacking.
2. The " implied agreement" co'ntemplated by the Dent
Act as the basis of compensation, is not an agreement
"implied in law," more aptly termed a constructive or
quasi contract, where, by fiction of law, a promise is imputed to perform a legal duty, as to repay money obtained
by fraud or duress, but an agreement "implied in fact,"
founded upon, a meeting of minds, which, although not
embodied in an express contract, is inferred, as a fact,
from conduct of the parties showing, in the light of the
surrounding circumstances, their tacit understanding.
See, by analogy, as to the construction of similar jurisdictional statutes, United States v. Berdan Fire-Arms Mfg.
Co., 156 U. S. 552, 566; Russell v. United States, 182 U. S.
516, 530; Harley v. United States, 198 U. S. 229, 234
United States-v. Anciens Etablissements, 224 U. S. 309,
311, 320; United States v. Buffalo Pitts Co., 234 U. S. 228,
232; Tempel v. United States, 248 U. S. 121, 129; and
Sutton v. United States, 256 U. S. 575, 581; and, generally,
Railway Co. v. Gaffney, 65 -Ohio St. 104, 113; Woods v.
Ayres, 39 Mich. 345, 350; Hertzog .v. Hertzog, 29 Pa. St.
465, 468; Knapp v. United States, 46 Ct. Chis: 601, 643;
and 1 Bouv. Diet. (Rawle's 3d -Rei.) 660. That this
provision of the Dent Act. relates only to 'such.actual
agreements, implied in fact from -the circumstances, is
npt only indicated by its purpose, as expressed in the caption, of providing relief in cases of "contracts " connected

598

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

with the prosecution of the war, but is conclusively shown
by the fact .that the "agreement" is described as one
"entered into, in good faith," by the claimant, with an
officer or agent of the Government, upon the faith -of
which expenditures have been made or obligati6ns incurred, and which has not been executed as prescribed
by law; this language aptly describing an actual agreement implied in fact, but being manifestly inapplicable to
a constructive agreement implied in law.
Such an agreement will not be implied unless the meet-'
ing of minds was. indicated by some intelligible conduct,
act or sign. Woods v. Ayres, supra, p. 351; and cases
there cited. And so an agreement to pay for services
rendered by the plaintiff will not be implied when they
were rendered spontaneously, without request, as an act
of kindness (Woods v. Ayres, supra, p. 351); when the
plaintiff did not expect payment, or under the circumstances did not have reason to entertain such expe6tation
(Coleman v. United States, 152 U. S. 96, 99; Lafontain v.
Hayhurst, 89 Maine, 388, 391); when the defendant understood that the plaintiff would neither expect nor demand remuneration (Harley v. United States, supra,
p. 235); when unusual expenses were incurred, without
special request or previous notice, and without any intimation or suggestion that compensation would be looked
for or made (Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co. v. United States,
ante, 385); when the defendant neither requested the
services nor assented to receiving their benefit under circumstances negativing any presumption that they would
be gratuitous (Railway Co. v. Goffney, supra, p. 116; 2
Abb. Tr. Ev., 3d ed., 912, and cases there cited); 1 and
But an agreement to compensate the plaintiff for the use of his
pfoperty will, b6 implied when it was used by the defendant without
claim' of. right, and the plaintiff consented to such use with the
expectation Qf receiving compensation. United States v. Palmer, 128
U. S. 262, 269; United Stat.,s v. Berdan Fire-Arms Mfg. Co., 156

BALT. & OHIO R. R. v. UNITED STATES.
592

599

Opinion of the Court.

when the circumstances account for the transaction on a
ground more probable than that of a promise of recompense (Woods v. Ayres, supra, p. 351.)2

In the-present case the findings of'fact show that Col.
Kimball did not order the construction of the barracks;
which was voluntarily undertaken by the company, without saying anything whatever about compensation, apparently from its own desire to provide for the comfort
of the troops, who were guarding its property as well as
that of the Government, afterit had removed the wrecking train which it had offered to supply as their quarters.
It does not appear from the findings that, Col. Kimball
requested the construction of the barracks; that. the 'company intimated that it would expect payment -from the
.overnment or that-Col. Kimball suggested that such payment would be made; or that the company in fact ex-.
.pected compensation. It is clear that these findings furnish no substantial basis for implying an agreement that
the Government would pay the cost of the construction.
Hence, a second essential element in the establishment
of the company's clai.ms lacking.
And the. judgment of the Court of Claims is
Affirmed.
U. S. 552, 567; United States v. Anciens Etablissements, supra,
p. 320. And see, as to the implied agreement to pay for property
appropriated by legislative authority for a public use, -without condemnation prQceedings, United States v. North American Transportation & Trading Co., 253 U. S. 330, anid cases there cited.
'As to the character of evidence by which an implied agreement to
pay for services is generally established, see 2 Abb. Tr. Ev. 913, aild

cases there cited.

