KANS. CITY SO. RY. v. WOLF.
119

Counsel for Parties.

without the sanction of the United States. Northern
Pacific R. R. Co.v. Smith, 171 U. S. 260, 275; Northern
Pacific Ry. -Co.v. Townsend, 190. U. S. 267; Northern
Pacific Ry. Co. v. Ely, 197 U.'S. 1; Kindred v. Union
PacificR. R. Co., 225 U. S.582, 597; Stuart v. Union Pacific R. R. Co., 227 U. S.342, 353.
It follows that the judgment should have been for the
company instead of for the defendants.
Judgment reversed.
KANSAS CITY SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY
v. WOLF ET AL.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 194. Argued January 9, 1923.-Decided February 19, 1923:
1. Under §§ 9 and 16 of the Interstate Commerce. Act, 24 Stat. 382;
34 Stat. 590, an action by a ihipper to recover charges collected by
a carrier in excess of tariff rates must be brought within two years
from the time when the cause of action accrued. P. 138.
2. The lapse of a longer time not only b:ars the remedy but destroys
the liability. P. 140.
272 Fed. 681, reversed.
ERROR to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals
affirming a judgment of the District Court for the defendants in error in an action to recover overcharges from
the Railway Company.

Mr. Fran H. Moore, with whom Mr. Cyrus Crane,Mr.
Samuel W. Moore and Mr. George H. Mucldey were on
the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Charles M. Blackmar, with whom Mr. Henry A.
Bundschu and Mr. Joseph P. Dufly were on the brief, for
defendants in error.

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Defendants in Error..

261 U.S.

Section 9 of the Commerce Act plainly shows the two
remedies which are open to any person who has suffered
damages by reason of the violation of any of the provisions of the act, aid the charging of rates in excess of the
lawful published tariff rates is a violation of the act. It
also specifically states that such party shall be entitled to
use either of said remedies but not both. There is nothing
in this section which places any limitation upon the time"
in which such a suit should be instituted in court. This
leaves the matter of time entirely open. Unless a limitation appears elsewhere in the act, the state statute of
limitation applies.
Section 16 of the Commerce Act deals exclusively with
procedure before the Commission, except that in subdivision (b) it provides for the enforcement in the courts of
the United States of orders for the payment of money
made by the Commission. There is nothing in this section which in any way relates to § 9, nor is there anything
said with reference to the limitation of the time in which
a suit shall be instituted originally in the District Court;
but the statute does specifically say that such claims shall
be filed with the Commission within two years from the
time the cause of action accrues. If the construction which
the defendant places on the statute is to prevail, the Court
must either read out of § 16 the words "with the Commission," or must read into it words which extend its
meaning to suits instituted originally in the District
Court.
The defendant has pointed out in its brief that this section is no ordinary statute of limitations, that it goes further than merely barring the remedy, and destroys the
liability. But the section is not anibiguous and, consequently, there is no room for construction, United States
v. Wiltberger, 5 Wheat. 77, 95, 96; nor can its plain words
be supplanted by speculation concerning the policy of
Congress. Bate Refrigerating Co. v. Sulzberger, 157 U. S.
1, 36, 37.

KANS. CITY SO. RY. v. WOLF.
133

Argument for Defendants in Error.

PhillipsCo. v. Grand Trunk Western R21. Co., 236 U. S.
662, has no application. It was a suit to recover unreasonable charges but nevertheless charges assessed according to a published tariff.
The question invol ed was decided in Lyne v. Delaware,
Lackawanna& Western R. R. Co., 170 Fed. 847, 849. See
also- Copp v. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co., 50 Fed.
1641; Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry.Co. v. Lena Lumber Co., 99
Ark. 105.
Section 8 of the Commerce Act provides in substance
that a carrier which shall omit any act, matter or thing
in the act required to be done'shall be liable to the person
or persons injured thereby for the full amount of the damages. This section provides no limitation of time within
which the suit shall be brought. Paragraph (g) of § 6
prohibits a carrier from collecting a greater amount than
that provided in the published tariffs. Section 22 provides
that nothing in the act shall in any way abridge or alter
the remedies existing at common law or by statute, but
the provisions of the act are in addition to such remedies.
There is no limitation placed in this section.
Independently of the act, a carrier is liable for any extess collected over its published tariff rates. In the case
before the Court the'plaintiff asserts a right cognizable
either before a state court of competent jurisdiction or before a United States District Court. PennsylvaniaR.R.
Co. v. Puritan Coal Co., 237 U. S.121, 129; Pennsylvania
R. R. Co. v. Sonman Coal Co., 242 U. S.120, 123.
The suit is not based, as claimed by the defendant, upon
a ruling of the Commission involving.the tariff in question. The basis of the plaintiff's claim is a right which
may be asserted in the District Court without first making application to the Commission. Great Northern Ry.
Co. v. MerchantsElevator Co., 259 U. S: 285.
The action is one to recover charges assessed in excess
of the lawful published tariff rates and not one which in

136

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument -for Defendants ifn Error.

261 U. S.

any way involves unjust, unlawful, discriminatory, preferential or prejudicial rates. Concretely, the question is
whether or not under the circumstances stated in a rule
of the Commission the shipper is entitled to the benefit
of the less-than-carload rate providing he is willing to
pay for ten thousand pounds at the sec6nd class rate as
a minimum. The only limitation on the rule is whether
or not the shipper is able to avail himself of a regularly
scheduled refrigeration less-than-carload service. That
limitation has gone out of this case because the undisputed testimony is that the railway company maintains
no such service. There is nothing in this rule which calls
for an exercise of the administrative or executive functions of the Commission. The rule is printed in plain
English and all shippers have a right to rely upon the
wording of the rule.
There are two methods for the reovdry. of damages resulting from a violation of the act, such as charging more
than the tariff rate. That is a person may either present
his claim within the two-year period to the Commission,
or he may sue*directly in the District Court. National
Elevator Co. v. Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry. Co., 246 Fed.
588; National Pole Co. v. Chicago & N. W. Ry. Co., 211
Fed. 65, 71; Mitchell Coal Co. v. PennsylvaniaR. R. Co.,
230 U. S. 247; Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v. International
184.
Coal Co., 230 U. S.
Cases involving the exercise of the administrative functions of the Commission should in the first instance be
filed before the Commission. While, on the other hand,
if the action is based upon a violation or discriminatory
enforcement of the carrier's published tariffs, rules or regulations, it may be brought in the District Court in the
first instance. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Cook
Brewing Co., 223 U. S. 70; Pennsylvania R. R. Co. v.
PuritanCoal Co., 237 U. S. 121; National Elevator Co. v.
Chicago, M. & St. P. Ry. Co., supra; Illinois Central R.
R. Co. v. Mulberry Hill Coal Co., 238 U. S. 275, 283.

KANS. CITY SO. RY. v. WOLF.
133

Opinion of the Court.

In the case before the Court, the rights of the parties
were fixed at the time shipments moved by tariffs lawfully
filed and which were in full force and effect. St. Louis,
I. Mt. & So. .My. Co. v. Hasty & Sons, 255 U. S. 252;
PennsylvaniaR. R. Co. v. Sonman Coal Co., 242 U. S. 120.
MR. JusTICu McRBYNoiLDs delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The original action was begun in the United States
District Court, Western District of Missouri, May 12,
1915, to recover charges in excess of the published tariff
rates collected by the plaintiff in error upon sundry interstate shipments of strawberries. All the shipments and
payments were made prior to June 1, 1912. The company demurred, "because each of said counts shows upon
its face that the pretended claim which is made the basis
of such count accrued more than two years prior to the
institution of this action."
The. trial court overruled the demurrer and this was
approved by the Circuit Court of Appeals (272 Fed. 681),
which said: "The controlling question in the' case is
whether the claims for repayment of the overcharges
might be the subject of an original action in court, or, on
the other hand, should first have been submitted to the
Interstate Commerce Commission.

.

.

. The former

procedure was adopted in this case. If the latter should
have been followed, the claims were barred by the limitation provided in section 16. We think it quite plain that
there was nothing about the tariffs, rules, or claims for
overcharge calling for any administrative action of the
Commission as a prerequisite to an action in court.
There was no attack upon the tariffs or the rules."
From 1906 to 1920 the Interstate Commerce Act, 24
Stat. 379, 382; 34 Stat. 584, 590, provided"Sec. 9. That any person or persons claiming to be
damaged by any common carrier subject to the provisions

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U.S.

of this act may either make complaint to the Commission
as hereinafter provided for, or may bring suit in his or
their own behalf for the recovery of the damages for
which such common carrier may be liable under the provisions of this act, in any district or circuit court of the
United States of competent jurisdiction; but such person or persons shall not have the right to pursue both of
said remedies, and must in)each case elect which one of
the two methods of procedure herein provided for he or
they will adopt. . .
"Sec. 16. . . . All complaints for the recovery of
damages shall be filed with the Commission within two
years from the time the cause of action accrues, and not
after, and a petition for the enforcement of an order for
the payment of money shall be filed in the circuit court
within one year from the date of the order, and not

after."

1

In Phillips Co. v. Grand Trunk Western Ry.Co., 236
U. S.662, 667, an action begun in the United States Cir'The Transportation Act, February 28, 1920, c. 91, 41 Stat. 456,
492, amended the pertinent portion of § 16 so that it now reads"Sec. 16 (3). All actions at law by carriers subject to this Act for
recovery of their charges, or any part thereof, shall be begun within
three years from the time the cause of action "accrues, and not after.
All complaints for the recovery of damages shall be filed with the
Commission within two years from the time the cause of action
accrues, and not after, unless the carrier, after the expiration of such
two years or within ninety days before such expiration, begins an
action for recovery of charges in respect 'of the same service, in
which case such period .of two years shall be extended to and including ninety days from the time such action by the carrier is begun.
In either case the cause of action in respect of a shipment of property shall, for the purposes of this section, be deemed to accrue upon
delivery or tender of delivery thereof by the carrier, and not after.
A petition for the enforcement of an order for the payment of money
shall be filed in the district court or State court within one year
from the date of the order, and not after."
Section 9 was not changed by the Transportation Act, 1920.

KANS. CITY SO. RY. v. WOLF.
133

Opinion of the Court.

cuit Court, the plaintiff alleged that the Interstate Commerce Commission had declared the published tariff rate
unreasonable and sought to recover overcharges paid more
than four years prior thereto. Referring especially to
§ 16, supra, this Court declared"Under such a statute the lapse of time not only bars
the remedy but destroys the liability (Finn v. United
States, 123 U. S. 227, 232) whether.complaint is filed with
the Commission or suit is brought in a court of competent
jurisdiction. This will more distinctly appear by considering the requirements of uniformity which, in this as in
so many other instances must be borne in mind in construing the Commerce Act. . . . To have oie period
of limitation where the complaint is filed before the Commission and the varying periods of limitation of the different States, where a suit was brought in a court of
competent jurisdiction; or to permit a railroad company
to plead the statute of limitations as against some and
to waive it as against others would be, to prefer some and
discriminate against others in violation of the terms of
the Commerce Act which forbids all devices bkj which
such results may be accomplished. . . . The Railroad Company therefore was bound to claim the benefit
of the statute here and could do so here by general demurrer. For when it appeared that the complaint had
not been filed within the time required by the statute it
was evident, as matter of law, that the plaintiff had no
cause of action. The carrier not being liable to the plaintiff for overcharges collected more than four years prior to
the bringing of this suit, it was proper to dismiss the
action."
True it is that the claim of Phillips & Co. was based
upon schedule tariff charges theretofore declared to be
unreasonable by the Interstate Commerce Commission,
while here the payments demanded are said to exceed the
. published rates when properly applied. But the doctrine
of the Phillips Case and the reasoning advanced to sup-

140

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Statement of the Case.

261 U. S.

port it, we think, are applicable to the circumstances of
the instant cause. The lapse of tine bad destroyed any
liability by the carrier to the shipper or his assignee for
the alleged overcharges, and the demurrer should have
been sustained.
Reversed.

MINNESOTA COMMERCIAL MEN'S ASSOCIATION v. BENN, EX ECUTRIX OF BENN.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE
MINNESOTA.

OF

No. 103. Argued January 12, 1923.-Decided February 19, 1923.
1. A judgment by default rendered against a foreign corporation on
process served on a state officer as its agent, in a State in which
it has done no business, nor otherwise consented to be so served, is
void. P. 145.
2. Upon facts stated, held: (a) That a contract of insurance made
between a mutual insurance company and a person domiciled in
another State, through acceptance at the company's home office of
an application received by mail, was a contract made and to be
performed in the State of the company's domicile; and
(b) That the company could not be said to be doing business in
the other State merely because one or more of its members, at its
suggestion but without authority to obligate it, solicited new mem.
bers there, or because it insured persons living there, mailed notices
to them and paid losses by checks upon its home bank, mailed from
its home office. P. 144.
149 Minn. 497, reversed.
CERTIORARI to a judgment of the Supreme Court of
Minnesota affirming a judgment recovered by the respondent against the petitioner in an action based on a
Montana judgment.

Mr. A. V. Rieke and Mr. David F. Simpson, with whom
Mr. Win. A. Lancaster, Mr. John Junell, Mr. James E.
Dorsey and Mr. Robert Driscoll were on the brief, for

petitioner.

