GT.NORTHERN RY.- v. STEINKE.

119

Syllabus.

GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY
STEINKE ET AL.

v.

CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
NORTH DAKOTA.

Nor. 152.

Argued December. 5, 1922.-Decided February 19, 1923.

1. The Act of March 3, 1875, granting railroad rights of way and.
station grounds in the public lands, should receive a more liberal
construction than acts making private grants or extensive grants
of land to railroads. P. 124.
2. Where a railroad, under this statute, with approval of the Land
Department, secured station grounds in lieu of others nearby,
previously selected, persons who were without interest in the
premises at the time cannot object that the second selection was
void because the first one exhausted the right. P. 125.
3. In a suit by a railroad company to quiet its title to lands included in a station-grounds map which was filed, amended and refiled and then approved by the Secretary of the Interior, held that
this Court could 'not take judicial notice of the records of the
General Land Office to ascertain the nature and extent of the
amendment, nor assume that it was insubstantial; and that, in the
absence of evidence on the'subject, the rights of the railroad could
relate back only to the date of refiling. P. 125.
4. Where land embraced in a map duly fled and approved, "subject to all valid existing rights," under the above act, is subject,
at the time of filing and approval, to a preliminary homestead
entry, the railroad gets a right for station purposes subject only
to the qualification that the rights of the homesteader are not to
be disturbed without due compensation, and this qualification disappears -when the entry is relinquished and canceled, leaving the
railroad's rights as complete as if the entry had never existed.
P. 126.
5. The title-of a railroad to station grounds under-the above act of
1875 cannot be affected by the neglect of the local land officers to
note the disposal on the plat and tract-book in their office. P. 129.
6. Purchasers of lots laid out on land included in their grantor's
entry and patent but adjacent to the right of way of a railroad
constructed over the patented subdivision, who know that the
railroad claims rights older than those of their grantor, are bound
to enquire and chargeable with notice of;proceedings recorded in

120

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U.S.

the General Land Office, whereby the railroad obtained a senior
title to such adjacent land for station purposes, under the Act of
1875, supra. P. 131.
So hetd, where the railroad right was not excepted in their grantor's
patent and certificate.
7. A grant of land under the Act of 1875 is upon implied condition
that it be used for the quasi public purposes named in the act,
and neither laches of the railroad grantee, nor local statutes of
limitation, can invest individuals with any interest in the tract,
or a right to use it for private purposes, without the sanction of
the United States. P. 132.
183 N.W. 1013, reversed
CERTIORARI

to a decree of the Supreme Court of North

Dakota affirming a decree of a trial court against the
Railway Company in a suit to determine conflicting
claims to a parcel of land.
Mr. C. J.Muiphy, with whom Mr. M. L. Countryman
and Mr. T. A. Toner were on the brief, for petitioner.
No brief filed for respondents.
MR. JusTIcE VAN DVANTFR delivered the opinion of
the Court.
This is a suit by the Great Northern Railway Company
to determine conflictiig claims to a small tract of land
adjoining its right of way at Springbrook, North Dakota.
That company claims the tract under a grant of station
grounds made by the United States to the St. Paul,
Minneapolis and Manitoba Railway Company, and the
defendants claim the same under a patent from the
United States to Philander Pollock. The defendants prevailed in the trial court and in the Supreme Court of the
State 183 N. W. 1013. A writ of certiorari brings the
case here. 257 U. S. 629.
At a time when the lands in that vicinity were public
lands the St. Paul, Minneapolis and Manitoba Railway
Company being duly qualified so to do, sought and se-

GT. NORTHERN RY. v. STEINKE.
119

Opinion of the Court.

cured a right of way through the same under the Act of
March 3, 1875, c. 152, 18 Stat. 482, and constructed its
road within and along such right of way. At the same
time and in the same way it sought and secured certain
lands two miles east of the present site of.Springbrook for
station grounds. Afterwards it changed its station to a
point adjacent to such site and proceeded to give up the
original station grounds and to select others, including the
tract in controversy, in their stead. It made the requisite
survey of the new grounds, prepared a map thereof and
on January 12, 1900, filed the map in the local land office,
whence it was to be transmitted to the General Land Office
and laid before the Secretary of the Interior. The niap
was returned to the Company for amendment in particulars not shown in the record, was amended accordingly,
and on July 18, 1900, was refied in the local land office.
The local officers then transmitted it to the General Land
Office, and on October 18, 1900, the Secretary of the In-'
terior approved it "subject to all valid existing rights."
On being advised of the Secretary's approval, the local
officers should have noted the disposal on the township
plat and tract book in their office, but this was not done.
The approved map and all papers relating thereto were
preserved in the General Land Office in the usual way,
and a certified copy of the map and of some of the papers'
was produced in evidence at the trial.
On January 12, 1900, when the map was first filed in the
local land office, the tract in question was public' land and
free from any claim, but before July 18, 1900, when the
map was refied, the tract was included, with other land,
in a preliminary homestead entry made by John Welo.
That entry remained intact until May 13, 1901, and was
then relinquished by Welo and canceled. On August 19,
1902, the tract was included, with other land, in a preliminary homestead entry made by Philander Pollock, and
bn June 1, 1903, he released the forty-acre subdivision con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

taining this tract from that entry and made another and
unrelated entry of the same subdivision. Under the latter entry a patent for the full subdivision was issued to
him on February 28, 1906.
Pollock and others, whom he interested in the project,
platted the greater part of the forty-acre subdivision, including the tract in question, as a townsite. The defendants purchased from them some of the lots, which, as
platted, cover part of this tract.
The station grounds shown on the map approved by the
Secretary of the Interior consist of a long strip of land one
hundred feet wide extending along one side of the right
of way at Springbrook. The tract in question is part of
that strip and is in close proximity to the tracks and depot.
The rights of the St. Paul, Minneapolis & Manitoba
Railway Company in the road, right of way, station
grounds, etc., passed to the plaintiff, the Great Northern
Railway Company, in 1907.
The Supreme Court of the State, in rejecting the plaintiff's claim under the grant of station grounds and sustaining the defendants' claim under the patent to Pollock,
put its decision on two independent grounds. One was
that when the map was refiled in the local land office, and
when it was approved by the Secretary of the Interior, the
tract in question was included in Welo's preliminary
homestead entry, and therefore was not subject. to disposal under the Act of 1875, and that the Secretary excluded it from his approval by making the latter " subject
to all valid existing rights." The other was that thereafter the land officers permitted Pollock to make an entry
of the forty-acre subdivision containing this tract, issued
to him a certificate of final entry making no reference to
the railroad company's claim and gave him a patent purporting to cover the entire subdivision, and that the defendants purchased from Pollock in good faith relying on
the final certificate and patent so issued to him.

GT. NORTHERN RY. v. STEINKE.
119

123.-

Opinion of the Court.

The pertinent provisions of the Act of 1875 are as
follows:
"That the right of way- through the public
lands of
the United States is hereby granted to any railroad company duly organized under the laws of any State or Territory, except the District of Columbia, or by the Congress
of the United States, which shall have filed with the
Secretary of the Interior a copy of its articles of incorporation, and due proofs of its organization under the
same, to the extent of one hundred feet on each side of
the central. line of said road; also the right to take,
from the public lands adjacent to the line of said road,
material, earth, stone, and timber necessary for the construction of said railroad; also ground adjacent to such
right of way for station-buildings, depots, machine shops,
side-tracks, turn-outs, and water-stations, not to exceed
in amount twenty acres for each station, to the extent of
one station for each ten miles of its road."
"Sec. 3. That the legislature of the proper Territory
may provide for the manner in which private lands and
possessory claims on the public lAnds of the United States
may be condemned; and where such provision shall not
have been made, such condemnation may be made in
accordance with section three of the act entitled [an act
to amend an act entitled] 'An act to aid in the construction of a railroad and telegraph line from the Missouri
River to the Pacific Ocean, and to secure to the Government the use of the same for postal, military, and other
purposes, approved July first,.eighteen hundred and sixtytwo,' approved July second, eighteen hundred and sixtyfour.
"Sec. 4. That any railroad-company desiring to secure
the benefits of this act, shall, within twelve months after
the location of any section of twenty miles of its road, if
the same be upon surveyed lands, and, if upon unsurveyed
lands, within twelve months after the survey thereof by

124

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

the United States, file with the register of the land office
for the district where such land is located a profile of its
road; and upon approval thereof by the Secretary of the
Interior the same shall be noted upon the plats in said
office; and thereafter all such lands over which such right
of way shall pass shall be disposed of subject to such right
of way: Provided, That if any section of said road shall
not be completed within five years after the location of
said section, the rights herein granted shall be forfeited
as to any such uncompleted section of said road.
"See. 5. That this act shall not apply to any lands
within the limits of any military, park, or Indian reservation, or other lands specially reserved from sale, unless
such right of way shall be provided for by treaty-stipulation or by act of Congress heretofore passed."
As with other public land laws, the Secretary of the
Interior was empowered to prescribe regulations for carrying thp act intio effect. Such regulations were prescribed. Those in force at the times to which the controversy relates were promulgated November 4, 1898. 27
L.-D. 663.
In some respects the act was loosely drafted, but
through a long course of administration in the land department and many adjudications in the courts its meaning and effect have come to be pretty well settled. Its
purpose was to enhance the value and hasten the settlement of the public lands by inviting and encouraging the
construction and operation of needed and convenient lines
of railroad through them. Nothing was granted for private use or disposal, nor beyond what Congress deemed
reasonably essential, presently or prospectively, for the
quasi public uses indicated. Because of this, the act has
been regarded as requiring a more liberal construction
than is accorded to private grants or to the extensive land
grants formerly made to some of the railroads. United
States v. Denver & Rio, Grande Ry; Co., 150 U. S. 1, 8,

GT. NORTHERN RY. v. STEINKE.
1-19

Opinion of the Court.

14. And see Kindred v. Union Pacifit R. R. Co., 225
U. S. 582, 596; Nadeau v. Union Pacific R. R. Co., 253
U. S. 442, 444. Thereis no provision in the act for the
issue of a patent, but this does not detract from the
efficacy of the grant. The approved map is intended to
be the equivalent of a patent defining the grant conformably to the intendment of the act, Noble v. Union River
Logging R. R. Co., 147 U. S. 165, and to relate back, as
against intervening claims, to the date when the map was
filed in the local land office for transmission through the
General Land Office to the Secretary of the Interior.
Stalker v. Oregon Short Line R. R. Co., ,225 U.-S. 142.
In the state court the defendants sought to make the
point that when the company secured the station grounds
two miles east of the present site of Springbrook it exhausted its right under the act and therefore could not
select or take the new grounds. But the point is without
merit. The company did not try to hold the original
grounds and also to secure the new ones. As shown by
the map, it surrendered the former and sought the latter
n their stead. By approving the map the Secretary of
the Interior assented to the change,-presumably because
it appeared to be one which would subserve the interests
of the public as well as those of the company. It was the
practice of the land department to permit such changes.
As the United States found no ground for objecting,
others who had no interest in the premises at the time
are not in a position to complain. Washington & Idaho
R. R. Co. v. Coeur d'Alene Ry. & Nay. Co., 160 U. S. 77,
97-98.
The railway company contends that its rights under
the approved map relate back to the time when the map
was first filed in the local land office rather than to the
time of the refiling; and, in furtherance of the contention,
the company asks that we take judicial notice of the files
in the General Land Office, which it says will show that

126

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.

Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

the amendments made in the map between the filing and
refiling were so unsubstantial that there was no real
alteration. But we think the files in such a proceeding
are not within the range of judicial notice and that if
there was any purpose to rely on them in this connection
they, or a certified copy of them, should have been produced in evidence at the trial. It cannot be merely assumed that the amendments were immaterial, and, in the
absence of any proof of their nature and extent, the date
of refihing, which was after they were made, must be
taken as the time to which rights under the approved
map relate.
We have seen that when the map was refiled, and when
it was approved, the tract in question was included in
Welo's preliminary homestead entry. The Supreme
Court of the State thought this prevented any right in
the tract from passing to-the company under the approved map, and that the words, "subject to all valid
existing rights," were inserted in the approval to show
the tract was excluded. We -reach a different conclision.
-The words quoted were not peculiar to this map, but
were commonly inserted in the approvals of that period.
Their office was not to show that any of the land designated on the map was excluded from the grant, but to
direct attention to what under the act would be true without them,-namely, that the grant was to be effective as
against the United States, but was not to impair valid
existing claims of settlers or others, and that to make the
grant effective against such claimants their rights should
be extinguished through private negotiations or, if need
be, through condemnation proceedings. See § 3 before
quoted and § 2288, Rev. Stats.
That Welo had a valid existing right in virtue of his
preliminary entry must be conceded. But it was only an
inchoate right to at4uire the title by residing on the land
and otherwise complying with the homestead law for a

GT. NORTHERN RY. v. STEINKE.
119

127?

Opinion of the Court,

prescribed period. The title and real ownership were in
the United States. Welo was under no obligation to perfect his claim. He could abandon it or relinquish it, but
could not transfer it to another. Subject only to his
claim the approved map vested in the company a complete right to the tract for station purposes. He voluntarily relinquished his entry and thus put an end to his
claim. Nothing then stood in the way of the company's
right. It was as if Welo's claim never had existed.
Unlike the land grants considered in cases like Kansas
Pacific Ry. Co. v. Dunmeyer, 113 U. S. 629, 639, and
Hastings & Dakota R. R. Co. v. Whitney, 132 U.. S. 357,
361, the Act of 1875 contains no provision whereby lands
covered by homestead or similar claims when the grant
attaches are excluded from it. On the contrary, a survey
of all that the act does contain shows that the grant is
intended to include lands of that class, but with the qua]ification, plainly implied in the third section, that due
compensation must be made to the claimants for their
inchoate or possessory rights to make the grant operative
against them. Washington & Idaho R. R. Co. v. Osbor,
160 U. S. 103, 109. An abandonment of the claims relieves the grant of the qualification. On this question the
decisions have been very plain. It was before the
Supreme Court of North Dakota in Jamestown & Northern R. R. Co. v. Jones, 7 N. Dak. 619, which related to a
right of way over which the railroad was constructed in
advance of the filing and approval of the map. The part
in controversy was included in an" existing preemption
claim when the road was constructed and also when the
map was filed and approved. Afterwards the preemption
claim was abandoned. Thereupon another claimant, who
had settled on the land after the construction of the road
and before the filing or approval of, the map, made an
entry. of the same tract and received a patent,-the entry
papers and patent containing no exception of the right of

128

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

way. Two-points were involvedf. One was whether the
grant of the right of way attached as of the date when
the road was constructed or as of the time when the map
was- filed or approved; and the other was whether the
preemption claim which was in existence at all of these
times operated to except the land from the grant. The
decision on the latter point is shown in the following
excerpt from the opinion:
"When the act of 1875 is construed as a whole, we
believe that, as against the United States, the right-ofway is transferred, even when the. land has been entered
at the time the map is approved, and that, if such entry is
subsequently abandoned or set aside, the grantee will
enjoy an absolute easement in the land. The rights of
the railroad company will be subject to all rights which
have attached to the land before the filing and approval
of the map of definite location. But, as against the United
States, the grant is as effective in cases where the land has
been entered as where it has not. Under any other view
of the statute, the railroad company might be compelled
to-condemn successive rights of settlers, only to find that
all its proceedings were futile, because in each case the
settler's rights were, by cancellation or abandonment, destroyed. We think tht it was the purpose of congress to
make the grant operative as against the government, subject only to existing rights of settlers, and that the question whether a particular piece of land was within the
terms - of the grant, so far - as the government was concerned, was not to depend upon the freedom of that land
from settlement at the time the map was approved.
Under this vie-w of the statute, a railroad company could
never be required to condemn any other than existing
rights."Other courts in the publi6 land States have decided the
question in the same way. Hamilton v. Spokdne &
Palouse-R. R- Co., 3 Idaho, 164; Bonner v. Rio Grande-

GT. NORTHERN RY. v. STEINKE.
119

Opinion of the Court.

.-Southern R. R. Co., 31 Colo. 446; Alexander v. Kansas
City, Ft. Scott & Memphis R. R. Co., 138 Mo. 464.
The case of Jamestown & Northern R. R. Co. v. Jones
was brought here on writ of error and the railroad comp any's claim to the right of way was upheldi-the decision
of the Supreme Court of North Dakota being disapproved
as respects the time as of which the grant attached and
sustained as respects the effect of the pregmption claim
which was in. existence at that time and afterwards abandoned. 177 U. S. 125. The opinion in the present case
does not refer to that case, and we assume it was overlooked. Otherwise it doubtless would have been followed,
as it should have been.
We come, then, to the ruling that the defendants purchased from Poilock in good faith relying on the certificate
and patent issued to him, and so "are entitled to prevail.
The claim on which Pollodk received the certificate and
patent was initiated more than two years after the new
station grounds passed to the company under the approved map. True, the local land officers neglected to
note that disposal on the township plat and tract book in
their office; but this did not prejudice or affect the company's title. The noting was required by way of continuing a practice, which had long prevailed, of making the
township plats and tract books in the land office of each
district a fair and helpful index of all public land transactions in the district. Of course, a faithful adherence to the
practice serves to prevent plural and conflicting disposals
of the same lands, while a neglect of-duty in that regard
by the local officers sometimes, as here, results in confusing
disposals. But the land department always has ruled that
such a neglect of duty affords no justification for subordinating a senior to a junior claim or for making a second
disposal in disregard of a prior one. Edward R. Chase,
I L. D. 81; Goist v: Bottum, 5 L. D. 643; Edward Young,

130

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

9 L. D. 32; Baird v. Chapman's Heirs, 10 L. D. 210; Linville v. Clearwaters, 11 L. D. 356. In reason the point
could not be ruled otherwise, for this would mean that a
patent or its equivalent, although issued after full examination of the claim by the Commissioner of the General
Land Office and the Secretary of the Interior, could be
thwarted or made of no avail by a subsequent omission
on the part of the local land officers,7-notwithstinding
this Court has adjudged that such a conveyance, when
regularly issued and recorded in the General Land Office,
passes the title and cannot be recalled or canceled by
even the Secretary of the Interior. United States v.
Schurz, 102 U. S. 378. The effect of such omissions often
has been considered by this Court and always has been
determined along the lines just indicated. It will suffice
to refer to two of the cases. In Van Wyck v. Knevals,
106 U. S. 360, one party claimed under a land grant to
a railroad company and the other under a patent issued
on a cash entry. The grant was to attach when the route
of the road was definitely fixed, and the Secretary of the
Interior was then to withdraw from market all lands falling within the grant. A map definitely fixing the route
was filed by the company with the Secretary and was acccptcd by him, but the intended withdrawal was not sent
Lo the local land office for a half month or more' During
that interval the cash entry was allowed and a patent certificate issued thereon. This Court sustained the claim
under the grant as being first in time, and, in defining the
rights which the company acquired through the filing and
acceptance of the map, said, p. 367: "No further" action is
required of the company to establish the route. It then
became the duty of the Secretary to withdraw the lands
granted from market. But if he should neglect this duty,
the neglect would not impair the rights of the company,
however prejudicial it might prove to others," In Stalker
v. Oregon Short Line R. R. Co., 225 U. $. 142, the railroad

GT. NORTHERN RY. v. STEINKE.
119

Opinion of the"Court.

company was relying on a grant of station grounds under
the Act of 1875, which the local land officers neglected to
note on their records, and the other party was claiming
under.a patent issued on a pre~mption claim. The.Supreme Court of Idaho had sustained the claim of the railroad company because the map of the station grounds was
filed in the local land office before the prebmption claim
was initiated, 14 Idaho, 371, -and that decision was
affirmed by this'Court on the following grounds, p. 153:
"First, if we are right in holding that the grant vested
in the company when the plat was approved, as of the
date when filed, the failure of the officer in the district
land office to properly mark the [township] plat could not
operate to defeat the grant; and, secondly, the railroad
company iaving done everything which it was required
by law to do, should not be affected by the negligence of
the register in not doing a duty upon which the vesting of
title as against the United States did not depend." And
also, p. 154:"'"We therefore conclude that the subsequent
issue of a patent to the land entered by Reed [the preemptor] was subject to the rights of the railroad company
theretofore acquired by approval of its station ground
map. The patent is not an adjudication concluding the
paramount right of the company, but insofar as it included lands validly acquired theretofore, was in violation
of law', and inoperative to -pass title."
When Pollock initiated his claim to the forty-acre subdivision, which includes the tract in question, the railroad
was constructed and being operated across that subdivision, and this was true when the defendants purchased
from him. Besides, the defendants understood, as did the
community in general, that the company was not claiming under Pollock and that its rights, whatever they were,
were older than his. These circumstances should have
put the defendants on inquiry respecting the nature and
extent of the company's claim and should have prompted

132

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

them to make the inquiry with particular regard to the
situation before Pollock's claim was initiated,-when the
subdivision was public land. So far as appears they made
no inquiry, but relied on the absence of any excepting
clause in Pollock's certificate and patent, neither of which
could bind thecompany or affect its prior rights. Among
other sources of information they could have interrogated
the company or its agent who was close at hand, bift this
was not done. In short they neglected the warning which
inhered in the circumstances we have recited. The Act
of 1875 was a public statute applicable to public lands in
that region and some notice should have been taken of it.
We have seen that it made provision for acquiring a general right of way of a uniform width and for securing
additional grounds for various station purposes,-such
grounds being in the nature of local extensions of the general right of way. A complete record of the company's
proceedings under that act was kept in the usual way in
the General Land Office, and it is reasonably certain that
the defendants would have learned of those proceedings
had they heeded the promptings of the situation in which
they purchased. They therefore were chargeable with
notice of those proceedings. Brush v. Ware, 15 Pet. 93,
ill.

The defendants interposed the defense of laches and
also a local statute of limitations, but the Supreme Court
of the State did not rule on either. Neither was applicable to the case. The tract in question was not granted
for private use or disposal, but only for the quasi public
uses named in the act. In other words, the company
received the tract on the imqplied condition that it be devoted to those uses. A breach of the condition subjects
the grant to a forfeiture by the United States; but neither
laches on the part of the company nor any local statute
of limitations can invest individuals with any interest in
the tract, or with a right to use it for. private purposes,

KANS. CITY SO. RY. v. WOLF.
119

Counsel for Parties.

without the sanction of the United States. Northern
Pacific R. R. Co.v. Smith, 171 U. S. 260, 275; Northern
Pacific Ry. -Co.v. Townsend, 190. U. S. 267; Northern
Pacific Ry. Co. v. Ely, 197 U.'S. 1; Kindred v. Union
PacificR. R. Co., 225 U. S.582, 597; Stuart v. Union Pacific R. R. Co., 227 U. S.342, 353.
It follows that the judgment should have been for the
company instead of for the defendants.
Judgment reversed.
KANSAS CITY SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY
v. WOLF ET AL.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.

No. 194. Argued January 9, 1923.-Decided February 19, 1923:
1. Under §§ 9 and 16 of the Interstate Commerce. Act, 24 Stat. 382;
34 Stat. 590, an action by a ihipper to recover charges collected by
a carrier in excess of tariff rates must be brought within two years
from the time when the cause of action accrued. P. 138.
2. The lapse of a longer time not only b:ars the remedy but destroys
the liability. P. 140.
272 Fed. 681, reversed.
ERROR to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals
affirming a judgment of the District Court for the defendants in error in an action to recover overcharges from
the Railway Company.

Mr. Fran H. Moore, with whom Mr. Cyrus Crane,Mr.
Samuel W. Moore and Mr. George H. Mucldey were on
the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Charles M. Blackmar, with whom Mr. Henry A.
Bundschu and Mr. Joseph P. Dufly were on the brief, for
defendants in error.

