236

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

261 U. S.

quently cutting hay on a part, did not extend his possession to the whole of the one hundred and sixty acres."
This is in accordance with the general rule that possession alone, without title or color of title confers no right
beyond the limits of actual possession. Sie Green v.
Liter, 8 Cranch, 229, 250; Watkins v. Holman, 16 Pet. 25,
55; Marine Ry. & Coal Co. v. United States, 257 U. S. 47,
65; Humphries v. Huffman, 33 Ohio St. 395, 401; Langdon v. Templeton, 66 Vt. 173, 179; Ryan v. Kilpatrick,
66 Ala, 332, 337.
Certain other contentions of defendants we deem it unnecessary to review, although they have been carefully
considered. Aside from that stated in the last paragraph
we find no error, but for the reasons there given, 'the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed and the
cause remanded to the District Court, with instructions
to amend its decree so as to cancel the patent in respect
of the lands possessed by the Indidns and, as so amended,
that decree is affirmed.
Reversed.
COLUMBIA RAILWAY, GAS & ELECTRIC COMPANY v. STATE OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF SOUTH
CAROLINA.

No. 297. Argued January 26, 1923.-Decided February 19, 192,3.
1. Article I, § 10 of the Constitution affords no protection against
impairment of the obligation of a contract by judicial decision.

" P. 244.
2. But where a state court, though placing its decision upon the
construction of a contract, in substance and effect gives force to a
statute complained of as impairing the contract obligation, jurisdiction of this Court attaches. P. 245.
3. A clause in a grant will be construed as a covenant, if reasonably
possible, rather than as a condition subsequent. P. 248.

COLUMBIA RY. v. SOUTH CAROLINA.
236

237.

Argument for Defendant in Error.

4. The fact that a legislative grant upon valuable consideration was
made to attain a particular end, cannot in itself debase the estate

granted. P. 249.
5. The fact that such a grant makes express provision for forfeiture
in case of default in one of the obligations imposed on the grantee,.
is a strong reason against construing other obligations, not so fortified, as conditions subsequent. P. 250.
6. A state statute which seeks to convert a covenant in a prior legislative contract into a condition subsequent and to impose as a
penalty for its violation the forfeiture of valuable property, impairs the obligation-of the contract and is void. P. 251.
112 S. Car. 528, reversed.
ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme, Court of South
Carolina affirming a 'judgment for the' State in a suit to
enforce a forfeiture of a grant and recover- possession of'
the property, for. breach of an alleged condition subsequent.

Mr. Wi lali Elliott and Mr. J6-Berry S. Lyles, with
whom 'Mr. R. B. tHerbert and Mr. W. 0. MeLain were
on the briefs, for plaintiff in error.

Mr. S. M. Wolfe, Attorney General of the State of
South Carolina, and Mr. J.FraserL'ypn for defendant in
error.
There was no irrepealable contract in this case within
the meaning of Art. I, § 10, of the Constitution of the
United States.
We are not now dealing- with ordinary lands subject
to sale, nor with'-proprietary rights of the State, but with
navigable waters and the soil thereunder, held in trust
by the State for all of. the people, wherein an inalienable
duty and obligation is due all of the people in their
sovereign capacity.
This trust cannot be relinquished b3 a 'transfer of the
property, and the control of the State, for the purposes of
a' trust, can' never be- lost. The State can no more
Abdicate its trust over the property in which the whole

238

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

261 U. S.

people are interested, like navigable waters and the soils
under them, so as to leave them entirely under the use
and control of private parties, than it can abdicate its
police powers in the administration of government and
the preservation of peace.
The canal is a governmental subject, and there can be
no contract and no irrepealable law on the subject.
The Act of 1887 and conveyances thereunder was merely
a license and defendant a governmental agency charged
with effectuating a governmental purpose, to wit, improvement of navigation, and the State, in consideration of
public policy, has determined, its agent having refused to
act, that the work and property shall not be further entrusted to defendant licensee.
The State might have repealed the Acts of 1887 and
1890 and it would have been valid and effective for the
purpose of restoring the State to the same control, dominion, and ownership of the property that it had prior
to the passage of the Act of December 24, 1887. State v.
Columbia Water Power Co., 82 S. Car. 181; Const., S. Car.,
1868, Art. I, § 40; Art. VI, § 1; Const., S. Car., 1895, Art.
I, § 28; Art. XIV, § 1; Illinois CentralR. R. Co. v. Illinois,
146 U. S. 388; People v, Kirk, 53 Amer. St. Rep. 294; 27
R. C. L., Waters, § 236, p. 1327; Long Sault Development
Co. v. Kennedy, 212 N. Y" 1.
There were conditions subsequent in the Acts of 1887
and 1890 and the conveyances thereunder, the violation of
which would work a forfeiture.
The Supreme Court of South Carolina has construed
this contract in the light of the history of all the legislation-pertinent thereto and such acts as necessarily form a
part thereof and has held the contract to embody a" condition subsequent," the default in the performance of
which would work a forfeiture. The State of South Carolina tales the position, therefore, that by this construction the Supreme Court of the United States, in reviewing

COLUMBIA RY. v. SOUTH CAROLINA.
236

239

Argument for Defendant in Error.

this case on appeal, is bound. Chicago & Northwestern
Ry. Co. v. Nye Schneider Fowler Co., 260 U. S. 35; Truax
v. Corrigan,257 U. S. 312; Clement NationalBankv. Vermont, 231 U. S. 120; Aberdeen Bank v. Chehalis, 166 U. S.
440.
But ift this Court should not find that it is bound by
the decision of the Supreme Court of South Carolina that
there was a condition subsequent in the contract, then we
submit, where an act is fairly susceptible of either of
two constructions, that one must be adopted which is
most favorable to the State. Only that which is granted
in clear and explicit terms passes by a grant of property,
franchise, or privilege in which the Government or the
public. are at interest. Cooshaw Mining Co. v. South
Carolina,144 U. S. 550; Blair v. Chicago, 201 U. S. 400;
'United States v. Michigan, 190 U. S. 379.
The question that is to be determined is, What is the
proper construction of the language used in the Acts of
1887 and 1890?-whether they constitute a condition subsequent, the violation of which would cause a reversion
of the property to the original grantor, the State of South
Carolina? This constrAction must be made in the light
of the history of the canal as appearing upon our statute
books and thie public resolutions of the General Assembly
of South Carolina prior to it, as well as the decisions of
the SupremeCourt of South Carolina.
A study or examination of these acts and decisions will
convince the Court that in the entire history of -Columbia
Canal project the legislature never gave any intimation
of any abandonment of its obligation to maintain. the
canal from the time it was constructed, about 1822 or
1823, up to the present, but evidenced its purpose that
the use of this canal should be maintained for the public
for the purposes for vhich it was originally built.
Our contention is that there is but one intention which
appears from the whole act and which. controls the legis-

240

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U.S.

lature, and the proviso in the first section of the act was
merely to postpone a reversion for seven years which would
have otherwise occurred in two years under the provisions
of § 7. This is a concession and limitation upon the intention of the legislature that the. canal should be completed as soon as practicable. Citations of authority that
a court of equity will never declare a forfeiture when the
parties cannot be put in statu quo cannot be applicable to
the Acts of 1887 and 1890.
The Act of 1917 was not given force and effect as a legislative adjudication of forfeiture. It was not offered, admitted, or relied upon as evidence to prove plaintiff's case.
The contract was not impaired and defendant was not deprived of due process of law thereby.
The'case was not removable. The complaint sets up no
right, title, or interest given or arising under any statute
or constitutional provision of the United States. The only
right asserted is based upon the statute of the State.
MF. JusTIcE SuTiR
Court.

delivered the opinion of the

This was an action brought by the "State against the
defendant (plaintiff in error) to recover possession of a
certain canal property, known as the Columbia Canal, on
the ground*that the defendant had forfeited the same by
reason of its failure to fulfill certain*conditions subsequent
upon which its continued title depended. Prior to the
year 1887 a small canal, following the course of the one
now in question, was owned by the State, the title being
vested in the Board of Directors of the state penitentiary.
in 1887 the legislature passed an act incorporating the
Board of Canal Trustees, to whom the penitentiary directors were required to and did transfer the canal Acts
S. Car. 1887, p. 1090.
By § 1 of this act, the title to the canal was vested in
the trustees for the use and benefit of the City of Co-

COLUMBIA RY. v. SOUTH CAROLINA.
236

Opinion of the Court.

lumbia, subject to the performance of certain obligations
therein set forth, and to the proviso, "that should the
said canal not be completed to Gervais street within seven
years from the passage of this Act all the rights, powers
and privileges guaranteed by this Act shall cease, and the
said property shall revert to the State." I
By § 3 they were authorized to construct a dam across
Broad River aid raise the water in the river so as to get a
fall of 37 feet at the south side of Gervais Street, provided
that the canal be so enlarged as to carrya body of water
150 feet wide at the top, 110 feet wide at the bottom and
10 feet deep and "develop at least 10,000 horse power at
the south side of Gervais street."
By §5 the canal was to be opened for navigation free of
charge.
By §7 the trustees were required to complete the canalwithin two. years so as t6 carnry a body of .water of the di"Section 1. That the Board of Directors of the South Carolina
Penitentiary are hereby authorized, empowered and required to
transfer, assign and' release to the Board of Trustees of the Columbia Canal, hereinafter created and provided for the property
known as the Columbia Canal, together with the lands now held
therewith, acquired under the acts of the General Assembly of this
State with reference thereto or otherwise, all and singular the rights,
members and appurtenances thereto belonging; and upon such transfer, .assignment and release all the right, title and interest of the
State of South Carolina in and to the *said Columbia. Canal and the
lands now held therewith, from its source at Bull's Sluice through
its whole length to the point where it empties into the Congaree
River, together with all the appurtenances thereunto belonging, shall
vest in the said Board of Trustees for the use and benefit of the city
of Columbia, for the purposes hereinafter in this Act mentioned,
subject, nevertheless, to the performance of the conditions and limitations herein prescribed on the part of the said Board of Trustees
and their assigns: Provided, That should the said canal not be completed to Gervais street within seven years from the passage of thin
Act all the rights, powers and privileges guaranteed by this Act shall
cease, and the said property shall revert to the State,"

242

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

mensions stated from the source of the canal down to
Gervais Street and to furnish free of charge 500 horsepower to the State, 500 horsepower to Sullivan Fenner
and 500 horsepower to the City of Columbia, and "as
soon as is practicable, complete the canal down to the
Congaree 1River a few yards above the mouth of Rocky
Branch."
By a subsequent act, passed in 1890, the trustees were
authorized to "sell, alienate and transfer" the property
subject "to all the duties and liabilities imposed thereby
[that is by the Act of 1887], and subject to all contracts,
liabilities and obligations made and entered into by said
board. . . ." Acts S. Car. 1890, p. 967. Under this
statute the -canal was sold to defendant's predecessor,
whose title the defendant now has.
The case turns upon the provision contained in § 7,
requiring the trustees, as soon as practicable, to complete the canal down to the Congaree River, and depends
upon whether this is a condition subsequent, the failure
to perform which incurs a forfeiture, or is a covenant the
breach of which gives rise to another form of remedy.
" Sec. 7. That the Board of Trustees shall, within two years from
the ratification of this Act, complete the said canal so as to carry a
body- of water 150 feet wide at the top, 110 feet ivide at the bottom
and ten feet deep, from the source of the canal down to Gervais
street, and to furnish to the State, free of charge, on the line of the
canal, 500 horse power of water power, to Sullivan Fenner or assigns
500 horse power of water power, under his contract with the Canal
Commission, and to furnish the city of Columbia 500 horse power
of water power at any point between the source of the canal and
Ger ais street the city may select; and shall, as soon as is practicable,
complbte the Qanal down to the Congaree River a few yards above
the mouth of Rocky Branch: Provided, That the right of the State
to the free use of the said 500 horse power shall be absolute, and any
mortgage, assignment or other transfer of the said canal by the said
Board of Trustees or their assigns shall always be subject to this
right."

COLUMBIA RY. v. SOUTH CAROLINA.
236

243

Opinion of the Court.

That the provision has not been complied with is not
disputed.
The legislature, in 1917, passed an act, Acts S. Car.
1917, p. 348, which begins with a preamble reciting certain of the provisions of the Act of 1887, including that
relating to the completion of the canal down to the Congaree River, and declaring that there had been a failure
to fulfill the conditions imposed by that act. By § 1 it
is then enacted that these conditions have not been complied with but have been disregarded; by reason whereof
the right, title and interest, "transferred by virtue of said
Acts, have been forfeited and reverted to the State." By
§ 2 the -Attorney General, and other officers named,, are
directed, within ninety days, to make such regntry for the
State as might be necessary and proper inder the circumstances and to take such. steps as might be lawful
and proper to obtain possession, and control of the property and improvements placed thereon, unless satisfactory
arrangements be made by the claimants of the canal. By
§ 3 the Attorney General is directed, at the time of regntry
or thereafter, to commence such proceedings as might be
"proper in any of the courts of the State to assert the right
of the State to said property and improvements.
In pursuance of the act last referred to this action was
brought in a state court of commoh pleas. The complaint alleged that' the defendant had failed to complete
the canal assoon as practicable down to the Congaree
River, and had failed to comply with the provisions of
the Act of 1887 in other particular&. The other alleged
violations may be dismissed from consideration, since the
judgment of the trial court is based alone upon the one
just specified, and its judgment is affirmed by the State
Supreme Court without reference to the others.
That the legislation of 1887 and 1890, and the transactions based thereon, establish a contract between the

244

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

State and the defendant is clear. The remaining inquiries are: (1) What is the pertinent obligation of this contract and (2) has that obligation been impaired, in violation otArticle I, § 10, of the Constitution?
We are met at the threshold with a challenge on the
part of the State to our jurisdiction, and this must first
be considered. The judgment of the state court, it is
asserted, was based upon its own construction of the
contract and not at all upon the Act of 1917.
As this Court has repeatedly ruled, the Constitution
affords no protection as against an 'impairment by judicial decision. New Orleans Water Works Co. v. LouisianaSugar Refining Co., 125 U. S. 18, 30; Louisiana Ry.
& Nay. Co. v. New Orleans, 235 U. S. 164, 170, and cases
cited.
If, therefore, the judgment, although in effect impairing the obligation of the contract, nevertheless proceeds
upon reasons apart from and without giving effect to the
statute, this Court is without jurisdiction to review it.
Bacon v. Texas, 163 U. S.207, 216, wherein the doctrine
is stated as follows:
"Where the Federal question upon which the jurisdiction of this court is based grows out of an alleged impairment of the obligation of a contract, it is now definitely
settled that the contract can only be impaired within the
meaning of this clause in the Constitution, and so as to
give this court jurisdiction on writ of error to a state
court, by some subsequent statute of the State which has
been upheld or effect given it by the state court. Lehigh
Water Co. v. Easton, 121 U. S.388; New Orleans Water
Works Co. v. Louisiana Sugar Refining Co., 125 U. S.18;
. .
Central Land Co. v. Laidley, 159 U. S.103, 109.
If the judgment of the state court gives no effect to the
subsequent law of the State, and the state court decides
the case upon grounds independent of that law, a case is
not made for review by this court upon any ground of the
impairment of a contract,"

COLUMBIA RY. v. SOUTH CAROLINA.
236

245

Opinion of the Court.

But, although the state court may have construed the
contract and placed its decision distinctly upon its own
construction, if it appear, upon examination, that in real
substance and effect, force has been given to the statute
complained of our jurisdiction attaches. In Houston &
Texas Central R. R. Co. v. Texas, 177 U. S. 66, 77, this
Court said:
"Thus we see that, although the decision of the state
court was based upon the ground that the warrants in
which these payments were made had been issued in utter
violation of the state constitution, and were hence void,
and that no payments made with such warrants had any
validity, and although this ground of invalidity was arrived at without any reference made to the act of 1870,
yet the necessary consequence of the judgment was that
effect was thereby given to.that act, and in a manner
which the company has always claimed to be illegal and
unwarranted by the act when properly construed. The
company has never accepted such a construction, but on
the contrary has always opposed it, and raises the question
in this proceeding at the very outset. Upon these facts
this court has jurisdiction, and it is its duty to determine
for itself the existence, construction and validity of the
alleged contract, and also to determine whether, as construed by this court, it has been impaired by any subsequent state legislation to which effect has been given by
the court below. Bridge Proprietorsv. Hoboken Company, 1 Wall. 116; University v. People, 99 U. S. 309;
Fisk v. Jefferson Police Jury, 116 U. S. 131; New Orleans
Water Works Qompany v. LouisianaSugar Refining Company, 125 U. S.18; Central Land Company v. Laidley,
159 U. S. 103, 109; Bacon v. Texas, 163 U. S. 207, 216;
McCullough v. Virginia, 172 U. S.102."
The record before us in the present case plainly discloses that the basis for bringing the action against the
defendant was the Act of 1917. The complaint alleges at

246

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

considerable length the provisions of the Act of 1887 and
the various transactions resulting in the acquisition of the
property by the defendant and its consequent assumption
of the obligations contained in that statute. The provisions of the Act of 1917, as heretofore recited, are then
set forth, followed by a statement of certain negotiations
had with the defendant, and it is then alleged that the
Attorney General and the other officers mentioned, not
considering it appropriate and proper to commit a breach
of the peace by making forcible entry upon the property
and taking possession thereof, have, therefore, by virtue
of § 3 of said act instituted this action.
The sufficiency of the complaint was challenged by demurrer, upon the ground, among others, that the contract
in question was impaired by the Act of 1917. The demurrer having been overruled, an answer was filed, alleging such impairment and this claim was asserted and
insisted upon at every stage of the proceedings to tteir
onclusion in the State Supreme Court.
The trial court, in passing upon the demurrer, referred
to the Act of 1917 as authorizing a judicial proceeding and
held that, coupled with a demand for possession and refusal, it was equivalent to the exercise of the right of
rbntry. Upon the trial of the case that court said that
the declaration in this act that there had been a failure to
perform the conditions of the contract was entitled to
some r'espect, but the court had the right to inquire into
the facts and determine whether as found by the legislature they were true. It further held that that act was
binding on the court under the evidence. It is apparent
that the trial court gave effect to the Act of 1917, although
the precise extent is not clearly disclosed. Whatever it
was, it entered into and affected the judgment and this
judgment was afmed by the Supreme Court.
We accord to this ruling the respect which we must
always give to the decisions of an appellate tribunal of a

COLUMBIA RY. v. SOUTH CAROLINA.
236

247

Opinion of the Court.

State, but, as will presently appear, we have arrived at a
result respecting the merits at variance with that pronounced, a result which seems to us manifestly right and
forces us to conclude that the construction put upon the
contract by the state courts could only have been reached
by giving effect to the statute of 1917. What was said in
Terre Haute & Indianapolis R. R. Co. v. Indiana, 194
U. S. 579, 589, is apposite and controlling:
"The state court has sustained a result which cannot be
reached, except on what we deem a wrong construction
of the charter, without relying on unconstitutional legislation. It clearly did rely upon that legislation to some
extent, but exactly how far is left obscure. We are of
opinion that we cannot decline jurisdiction of a case which
certainly never would have been brought but for the passage of flagrantly unconstitutional laws, because the state
court put forward the untenable construction more than
the unconstitutional statutes in its judgment. To hold
otherwise would open an easy method of avoiding the
jurisdiction of this court."
And see Detrt United Ry. v. Michigan,242 U. S. 238,
246-248.
The jurisdiction of this Court is, therefore, upheld, and
we proceed to the consideration of the case on its merits;
and here the crucial question is: What is the nature of the
contractual obligation with which the judgment of the
state court deals?
By the Act Qf 1887 numerous obligations were imposed
ori the canal trustees and their assigns, among them: (a)
to complete the canal within two years so as to carry a
designated body of water to Gervais Street; (b) furnish
a measure of 1500 horsepower to the State and others;
(c) keep the canal open-for navigation, free of charge, and
(d) complete the canal as soon as practicable down to the
Congaree River. No provision is made in respect of the
consequences to result in case of. a failure to perform any

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.'
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

of these obligations. The only specific provision suggesting a forfeiture is "that should the said canal not be completed to Gervais street within seven years .
.
all
the rights, powers and privileges guaranteed by this Act
shall cease, and the said property shall revert to the
State."
The effect of the Acts of 1887 and 1890 and the subsequent transactions based on them, was to vest in the
defendant title to the property in fee; and for this the
consideration moving from the defendant was valuable
*and substantial. Did the failure to comply with the provision requiring completion of the canal to the Congaree
River divest defendant of this title?
We begin the inquiry with the general rule before us
that ' conditions subsequent, especially when relied on to
work a forfeiture, must be created by' express terms or
clear implication, and are construed strictly," 2 Washburn
on Real Property, 6th ed., § 942; and that " courts always
construe clauses in deeds as covenants rather than conditions, if they can reasonably do so." Id., § 938. Here
there are no express terms creating, and no words such as
are commonly used to introduce, a condition' nor is
there any provision giving the right of reentry upon failure to perform. It is urged by the State Supreme Court
that the legislative intention must be gathered from the
statute as a whole, to be read in the light of its dominant
purpose which was to connect the waters of the Broad
and Congaree Rivers above and below shoal water, so as
to -promote navigation; the other purposes, though important, being subsidiary. But the purpose to accomplish this result is equally consistent with the view which
regards the provision in question as a covenant, the only
difference being that the remedy for a breach would be
different and less drastic. In Oregon & CaliforniaR. R.
Co. v. United States, 238 U. S. 393, this Court was called
upon to construe the proviso in a land grant act to the

COLUMBIA RY.v. SOUTH CAROLINA.
236

249

Opinion of the Court.

effect that the lands granted must be sold only to actual
settlers, etc., and it was held that this did not constitute a
condition subsequent, but an enforceable covenant. In
the course of the opinion (p. 419) it was said:
"It appears, therefore, that the acts of Congress have
no such certainty as to establish forfeiture of the grants
as their sanction, nor necessity for it to secure the accomplishment of their purposes,-either of the construction
of the road or sale to actual settlers-and we think the
principle must govern that conditions subsequent are not
favored but are always strictly construed, and where there
are doubts whether a clause be a covenant or condition
the courts will incline, against the latter construction;
indeed, always construe clauses in deeds as covenants
rather than as conditions, if it is possible to do so."
And see Woodruff v. Woodruff, 44 N. J. Eq. 349, 353.
Moreover, the conveyance was absolute and for a valuable consideration, and a mere purpose to attain a particular end, however it may have influenced the legisltion, could not have the effect of debasing the fee. See
Stuart v. Easton, 170 U. S. 383, 394-397, where this Court
said: "While the proprietaries may have been mainly
influenced in making the grant by a desire to advance the
interests of the town, or were actuated by motives of charity, yet the transaction was not a mere gift, but was upon
a valuable consideration, and it was the evident intention
of the grantors to convey all their estate or interest in the
land for the benefit of the county. The declaration in the
patent of the purposes for which the lahd was to be held,
conjoined as it was with a reference to the act of the
assembly wherein the trust was created, could not have
the effect of qualifying the grant of the fee simple, any
more than if the declaration of the purposes for which the
land was to be held had been omitted and a declaration of
the trust made in an independent instrument."
Not only does the statute contain no positive terms
creating, or words requiring the provision in question to

250

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

be construed as, a condition subsequent, but the clear
implication is to the contrary. The clause relating to the
section of the canal down to Gervais Street is expressly
that upon failure to complete in seven years the property
shall revert to the State. In contrast, it is significant that
no forfeiture is specifically prescribed with respect to the
non-completion of the Congaree section of the'canal. If
this requirement, nevertheless, be construed as a condition subsequent there can be no rational ground for holding that the other obligations of the contract are not susceptible of a like construction. Among these obligations
is that requiring the completion of the canal to Gervais
Street in two years; but the express provision for a forfeiture for failure to complete it in seven years, negatives, as a matter of logical necessity, any suggestion that
a forfeiture would be incurred for a failure to complete in
two years. The inference, as applied to the other obligations, including that now in question, while not so
direct and obvious, is, nevertheless, one which naturally
flows from the premises.
The proviso for a forfeiture in the one case is at least
stiongly persuasive of an intention not to impose it in
other cases not so qualified. When, in addition to this, we
coisider all the circumstances, including the fact that the
sale to the defendant was absolute and for a valuable consideration, that there are no express terms creating a condition, no clause of reentry nor words of any sort indicating such purpose, the conclusion is unavoidable that the
obligation in question is a covenant and not a condition
subsequent. Board of Commissioners v. Young, 59 Fed.
96; opinion by Judge, afterward Justice, Lurton. We
quote from page 105:
"That the grantor ever contemplated a reverter is not
to be -presumed, in the light of the presence of absolute
words of conveyance and quitclaim, and the absence of
any provision for a reverter or reentry. If it had been •
intended that the conveyance should terminate on an

COLUMBIA RY. v. SOUTH CAROLINA.
236

251

Opinion of the Court.

abandonment of the public use, it is strange that some
language was-not used indicative of such purpose. Too
much weight was attached to the circumstance that the
city wished the title in order to maintain a suit against
a trespasser. Such suit could have been maintained without the title. . Too little weight has been given to the fact
that the deed was upon a valuable consideration; to the
fact that it wasa quitclaim of all right, title, and interest;
to the fact of"a previous common-law dedication; and to
the failure, under such circumstances, to make the title
subject to an express right of regntry. The minuteness
of direction concerning the administration of property
conveyed to a public use is insufficient to take the case
out of the rule, supported by an overwhelming weight ofauthority, that the mere expression of a purpose or particular use to which property is to be appropriated will
not make the estate a conditional one."
The effect of the Act of 1917 is to convert that which
we have held to be a covenant into a condition subsequent.
and to impose as a penalty for its violation the forfeiture
of an extensive and valuable property. It requires no
argument to demonstrate that this constitutes animpairment of the contract here involved, in violtion of the
Constitution. The impairment of a contract may consist
in increasing its burdens as well as in diminishing its
efficiency. "Any deviation from its terms, by postponing
or accelerating the period of performance which it prescribes, imposing conditions not expressed in the contract,
or dispensing with the performance of those which are,
or apparently immaterial, in their effect
however
upon theminute,
contract of the parties, impairs its obligation."
Green v. Biddle, 8 Wheat. 1, 84. See also Boise Water Co.
v. Boise City, 230 U. S.84, 90, 92.
The judgment of the State Supreme Court is reversed
and -the cause remanded for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.

