PADUCAH v. PADUCAH RY.
264

267

Syllabus.

the track does not .justify its maintenance, the question
of its abandonment will be open then."
We are unable to agree that the cost in material and
labor is all that is involved in this case. Plaintiff seeks
to be relieved not only from constructing the side track
but also from maintaining it in suitable condition for
use, and from the cost and expense of using 'and operating
it for the movement of cars to and from the warehouse.
The value of all these is involved. Glenwood Light &
Water Co. v. Mutual Light Co., 239 U. S. 121, 125; Berryman v. Board of Trustees of Whitman College, 222 U. S.
334; Bitterman v. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co., 207
U. S. 205, 225; Hunt v. New York Cotton Exchange, 205
U. S. 322, 336. It is shown that the permanent annual
burden on account of interest on such cost, depreciation,
maintenance and operating expenses of such side track
will exceed $200, and this capitalized at a reasonable rate
exceeds $3,000. Laying aside other considerations bearing
upon the matter, 'the amount is shown to be sufficient.
This being so, the District Court should have taken jurisdiction and should have proceeded to determine the merits
of plaintiff's application for a temporary injunction, which
it did not- do.
Order declining jurisdictionvacated with directions
for further proceedings.
CITY OF PADUCAH ET AL. v. PADUCAH
RAILWAY COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE 'UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.

No. 243. Argued January 18, 1923.-Decided February 19, 1923.
1. A city with power to fix the fares chargeable by street railway
companies will not be adjudged to have surrendered any part of
it unless plainly authorized and unmistakably intending to do so.
P. 272.

268

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

2. A street railway company has a constitutional right to a reasonable return on the value of its property used in the public service,
if it has not contracted the right away. P. 272.
3. A contract between a city and a street railway company considered and construed as fixing fares for the first year of operation under it, but as leaving unfettered the rights of the company
and of the city, respectively, thereafter to charge and prescrib
other fares that are just and reasonable. P. 273.
4. A decree enjoining a city from enforcing street railway fares found
to be confiscatory, should bb so framed as to protect the city's
right to prescribe the same fares if, through change of conditions,
they become just and reasonable. P. 275.
Modified and affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court permanently
enjoining the City from enforcing an ordinance prescribing fares for the Railway Company.
Mr. W. A. Berry, with whom Mr. J. D. Mocquot and
Mr. Roscoe Reed were on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. Charles K. Wheeler, with whom Mr. D. H. Hughes
and Mr. James G. Wheeler were on the brief, for appellee.

MR. JusTIcE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.

The appellee, the Paducah Railway Company, is the
owner of an electric street car system in Paducah, Kentucky, and is operating it under a franchise ordinance

adopted April 29, 1919.

Section XV thereof (printed in

the margin)' relates to fares to be charged. The company
'SECTION XV.
The fare for one continuous trip for twelve (12) months from the
commencement of operation under this franchise is hereby fixed as
follows:
60
Cash fare for adults .........................................
Half fare.
Children under twelve and over five .....................
Children under five when accompanied by guardian........ Nothing.
At the end of such period the purchaser, shall submit a verified
sqtatement of the receipts and expenditures to the Mayor and Coin-

269

PADUCAH v. PADUCAH RY.
267

Opinion of t6e Court.

commenced operation under this ordinance October 1,
1919, charging the fare therein specified, six cents for
adults, half fare for children under twelve -and over five
years of age. On September 17; 1920, the company notified the city that it would fail to earn enough to meet
operating expenses, taxeis, depreciation, and a reasonable
rate of return upon its investment by $72,350.10, and
furnished the city a statement showing (for eleven
months, actual and September estimated) that operating
expenses, including depreciation and taxes, exceeded the
total revenue by $4,055.86, and that the additional
amount required to provide an eight per cent. return on
missioners of the City of Paducah and if it appear therefrom (after
investigation and verification of such report) that the purchaser has
received more than a sufficient sum to pay expenses and a reasonable
rate ifreturn on the capital invested, such purchaser shall re-pay
to the City of Paducah the difference between the amount necessary
for such expenses and a reasonable rate of return upon invested
capital and the amount actually received.
At the expiration of each twelve months during the life of this
franchise, for the purpose of regulating fares to be charged by the
purchaser, and to accomplish that purpose, and to prevent excessive
fares, the purchaser, shall at the expiration of each twelve months
during the life of this franchise submit to the Commissioners of. the
City of Paducah a verified statement of the receipts and expenditures and if from any of such reports it appears the fare as fixed is
more than sufficient to pkovide a reasonable rate of return upon the
invested capital, the City shall reduce such'fare accordingly;
For the purpose of ascertaining the rate of:fare to be charged hereunder the City may cause said property to.be appraised as follows:
The City shall appoint a disinterested street railway expert, and the
purchaser shall appoint such expert appraiser for its part, and the
two so appointed shall select a third expert appraiser.

.

.

. Said

experts shall report in writing to the'Mayor and Commissioners of
the City of Paducah within three months after their appointment
the total valuation of the property owned, controlled or used by the
purchaser, in connection with the operation of a street-car system in
Paducah, and its vicinity but this fran'chise shall not be estimated or
considered in its value. The cost of such appraisal to be borne equally
by the City and the purchaser hereof.

270

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U.S.

the investment of $854,303 was $72,350.10; that the number of passengers carried was 2,979,654 and the -average
fare 5.32 cents; that to provide sufficient revenue on the
basis of then existing price levels, it would require a cash
fare of 13.5 cents, and stated that in the hope that during
the ensuing year prices would decline, it was willing to
operate for the twelve months beginning October 1, 1920,
at a lower fare. It notified the city that, effective on that
day, .the rates of fare would be: cash fare, 10 cents; tokens,
7.5 cents; half fare, 5 cents. On September 20, 1920, the
company, supplementing its earlier communication, requested the city, if dissatisfied with the value of the property as shown in the statement theretofore furnished, to
have an appraisal of the property as provided in section
XV of the franchise ordinance. On September 21, 1920,
claiming that the company was limited to the fares specified in section XV as maximum, the city, without any investigation of the facts reported by the company or any
appraisal of the property, passed an ordinance prescribing
imposing penalties for the violation of
the same fare and
1
the ordinance.
1
Section 1. That commencing immediately after 12 o'clock midnight on September 30th, 1920, the fares that may be charged and
collected for passage upon any street car within the City of Paducah,
and upon any electric street car system operating under any franchise granted by the City of Paducah, shall be as follows:
6 cents.
Cash fare for adults .......... ; .......................
For children under 12 years of age and over 5 years of age. Half fare.
For children under 5 when accompanied by any person
Nothing.
who is over 5 years of age ..........................
Section 2. Any person, firm or corporation operating any electric
street railway or car within the City of Paducah, or under any franchise granted by the City of Paducah, who shall charge or attempt
to collect any greater rate of fares for transportation upon any such
electric street car than is provided in Section 1 hereof, shall be guilty
of a violation of this ordinance, and each such person, firm or corporation so violating said ordinancle shall be fined in any sum not less
than Ten ($10.00) Dollars, nor more than Twenty ($20.00) Dollars
for each violation thereof.

PADUCAH v. PADUCAH RY.
267

Opinion of the Court.

The company thereupon broiught this suit to restrain
and enjoin the enforcement of the ordinance on the
ground that the rates specified are unremunerative and
confiscatory, and that the enforcement of the ordinance
would take the company's property without due process
of law and deny it equal protection of the laws in violation
of the Fourteenth Amendment.

After hearing the parties, the District Court, on September 30, 1920, granted a temporary injunction.
On October 12, 1920, the company furnished a state-

ment' of receipts and expenditures for the first twelve
months' period in form similar, to that submitted September 17, 1920, shortly before the expiration of the year,
showing that operating expenses including depreciation
and taxes exceeded the total revenue by $4,338.21, and
that the additional amount of revenue required to provide an eight per cent. return on the investment as
claimed was $72,862.45.
At the trial of 'the case on the merits, the company
offered evidence sufficient to sustain the allegatioiqs 6f the
complaint. The city offered no evidence. and made no
serious contention that the rates fixed in the ordinance
complained of were sufficient, but insisted that the franchise ordinance was a contract binding the company' to
the fares specified in section XV as the maximum never
to be exceeded during the twenty-year term.
The District Court held that the franchise fixed'rates
for the first year only, and final decree was 'entered enjoining the enforcement of the ordinance.
On this appeal, the city's only 'contention is 'that,
under the franchise, the company has no right at any
time to have fares in 'excess of those specified in that
section, and because of the contract, 'it may not invoke
constitutional protection against the enforcement of the
specified rates, even if shown to be too low to yield a reasonable return.

272

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

Before considering the language, it is appropriate to
take note of the situation existing at the time the passage
of the franchise was being considered. The plaintiff's
predecessor, the Paducah Traction Company, had operated the system for many years. Until July 1, 1918,
there was a five-cent fare. The city and company agreed
upon a fare of seven cents to commence on that date.
On September 1, 1918, a receiver was appointed and that
fare continued in force until October 1, 1919, the date of
the commencement of the term of the present franchise.
The District Judge in his opinion on granting the motion
for a temporary injunction said: " The predecessor of the
plaintiff had failed to accomplish either an adequate
transportation system for the city or the making of anything resembling profits for itself." Operating expenses
greatly increased between 1914 and the adoption of the
franchise ordinance.
That the city had power under its charter to prescribe
just and reasonable fares from time to time was stated by
counsel on the argument and is assumed. The surrender
of this power or any part of it is a very grave act; authority to make it must be plain, and the intention so to do
must clearly and unmistakably appear. Home Telephone & Telegraph Co. v. Los Angeles, 211 U. S. 265,
273, and cases there cited.
The company was entitled to just compensation, i. e., a
reasonable return on the value of its property used in the
public service, and unless contracted away, that right is
protected by constitutional safeguards which may not be
overridden by legislative enactment or considerations of
public policy. Southern Iowa Electric Co. v. City of
Chariton, 255 U. S. 539, 542, and cases there cited; San
Antonio v. San Antonio PublicService Co., 255 U. S. 547.
On the argument, it was stated by counsel that the city
and company have power to contract as to rates and we
so assume. If the francl~ise here amounts to a contract

PADUCAH v. PADUCAH RY,
267

273

Opinion of the Court.

binding the company to the fare stated therein as a maximnum, as claimed by the city, for the whole franchise term
of twenty years, it cannot complain, and there is no
ground for relief; and the question whether such rates
are too low to give a reasonable return or sufficient is
immaterial. Southern Iowa ElectricCo.v. City of Chariton, supra,543; San Antonio v. San Antonio Public Service Co., supra.
In the construction of section XV, regard.properly may
be had to the facts, the situation of the parties at the
time of the adoption of the ordinance and to their respective powers and rights liable to be effected by the
franchise.
The first clause is as follows:
"The fare for one continuous trip for twelve (1.2)
months from the commencement of operation under this
franchise is hereby fixed as-follows:
Cash fare for-adults..................
60
Children under twelve and over five ......... Half fare
Children under five when accompanied by
guardian ................................ Nothing."
By this provision a definite fate for a'specified period
is fixed. There is nothing .indicating any intention that
the fares are to continue beyond the twelve months or
that they are to be taken as maximum and not to be exceeded after the expiration of that period.
The second clause is as follows:
"At the end of such period the purchaser, shall submit
a verified statement of the receipts and expenditures to
the Mayor and Commissioners of the .City of Paducah
and if it appear therefrom (after .investigation and verification of such report) that the purchaser has received
more than a sufficient sum to pay expenses and a reasonable rate of return on the capital invested, such purchaser shall re-pay to the City of Paducah the difference
between the amount necessary for such expenses and a

274

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

reasonable rate of return upon invested capital and the
amount actually received."
- The purpose of this is plain. The parties here provided for payment .to the city by the company of any
excess that might result from possible decline of operating expenses or other causes. There is no support here
for the city's contention that the fares specified in the
section were fixed as the permanent maximum fares for
the whole period.
The third clause, commencing the second paragraph of
the section, is as follows:
"At the expiration of each twelve months during the
life of this franchise, for the purpose of regulating fares
to be charged by the purchaser, and to accomplish that
purpose, and to prevent excessive fares, the purchaser,
shall at the expiration of each twelve months during the
life of this franchise submit to the Commissioners of the
City of Paducah a verified statement of the receipts and
expenditures and if from any of such reports it appears
the fare as fixed is more than sufficient to provide a reasonable rate of return upon the invested capital, the City
shall reduce such fare accordingly."
The reports required are for the purpose of regulating
fares, and were intended to furnish the city facts in aid
of the exercise of its power to prescribe just and reasonable fares and to prevent excessive fares; and by this
provision there is evidenced a definite understanding that,
if in any twelve months' period the revenue yielded by
the fares established ind in effect for that period, is more
than sufficient, as defined in the ordinance, the city will
reduce the fares accordingly. There is nothing here to
indicate an intention that the fare prescribed in the first
clause shall be deemed maximum for the term of the
franchise.
The third paragraph commences with the following
language: "For the purpose of ascertaining the rate of
fare to be charged hereunder the City may cause said

PADUCAH v. PADUCAH RY..
267

-1275

Opinion of the Court.

property to be appraised as follows:" The remaining
part of the section relates to the valuation. It gives the
city authority to require an appraisal of property to be
made in the manner specified and imposes upon the company one-half of the expense thereof. This is a further
.aid to the exercise of the city's power to prescribe just
and reasonable fares.
.
The conclusions to be drawn as to thee-matter in controversy are obvious. The parties &greed to and Were
bound to the specified fares for the first twelve months.
These fares were not agreed to be -maximum for any
other part of the franchise term. The right of the company thereafter to have fares sufficient to provide a
reasonable rate of return upon its invested capital was
not contracted away.. The power and duty 6f the city
thereafter to prescribe fares that are. just and reasonable
was not contracted away; it was definitely understood
that, if from .any of such reports it appears that "the
fare as fixed" (meaning, as established and in effect) was
excessive, the city will reduce such fare accordingly.
We have examined the record and are satisfied that the
fares prescribed by the ordinance of September 21, 1920,
were shown to be too low under -the conditions existing
at the time of the trial, and that the company is entitled
to the injunction.
The decree entered is general in form and is not limited
as to time. The terms of the ordinance prescribing the
fare in question are general and fix no time limit. It is
obvious that conditions may have so changed or hereafter
may so change that these or even lower fares may be just
and reasonable. The decree appealed from should be
modified to safeguard the right of the city under its charter and the franchise properly to exercise its power to
prescribe just and reasonable- fares.
The decree is modified in accordance with this opinion,
and as so modified is affirmed.

