514

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

261 U. S.

pointed out. Greenleaf Lumber Co. v. Garrison, 237
U. S. 251, 264; Lewis Blue Point Oyster Co. v. Briggs,
229 U. S. 82.
In Long Island Water Supply Co. v. Brooklyn, 166
U. S. 685, the statute providing for condemnation ex-.
pressly included contracts, and these were in fact' taken
and compensatioi therefor specifically allowed. This
was pointed out in the opinion of this Court (p. 691):
"In other words, the condemnation proceedings did not
repudiate the contract but appropriated it and fixed its
value."
We have examined the other cases relied upon but find
nothing to justify a conclusion other than that which we
have reached.
The judgment of the court below is
Affirmed.
RUSSELL MOTOR CAR COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
FREYGANG ET AL., PARTNERS DOING BUSINESS
UNDER THE NAME OF MIDLAND BRIDGE
COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
ALBERT & J.M. ANDERSON MANUFACTURING
COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF CLIIMS.

Nos. 485, 480, 740.

Argued March 6, 1923.-Decided April 9, 1923.

1. The Act of June 15, 1917, c. 29, 40 Sta't. 182, empowered the
President, within the limits of amounts appropriated, "to modify,
suspend, cancel, or requisition any existing or future contract for
the building, production, or purchase of ships or material," and
to exercise the authority "through such agency .or agencies as he
shall determine from time to time," "material" being defined
as including stores, supplies and equipment for ships and everything required for or in connection with the productibn :thereof.

RUSSELL. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
514

515

Statement of the Case.

Held: (a)' T)e word "material" included anti-aircraft gun-mounts'
for the Navy. P. 518.
(b) The power "to modify, suspend, cancel, or requisition," any
contract, etc., extends to the cancelation of the Government's own
contracts. P. 519.
(c)An executive order delegating power under this clause in sweeping terms to the Secretary of the Navy, should be construed
broadly, and included the power to cancel government contracts.
P. 523.
(d) An order of the Secretary canceling a contract need not refer'
to the statute. Id.
(e) The just compensation to which a party is entitled, upon cancelation of his contract under the statute, does not include anticipated profits. Id.
2. The maxim noscitu'r a socis is used only to solve ambiguity.
Verbs in an enumeration whose meaning, when they are separately
applied to their common object, is plain, should be interpreted
distributively. P: 519.
3. Where the meaning of a statute may be ascertained without extrinsic aid, debates in Congress will not be considered. P. 522.
57 Ct. Cims. 464, 244 and 626, affirmed.
APPEALS from three judgments of the Court of Claims
fixing just compensation for the cancelation of claimants'
contracts with the Government. In the -first and third
cases the contracts forthe manufacture of anti-aircraft gun
carriages, and brass shefi cases, were entered into through
the Navy Department and were canceled by the Secretary of the Navy, by authority delegated under the Act of
June 15, 1917. In the second case (No. 480) the contract
was with the Emergency Fleet Corporation, 'for the construction of barges, and was canceled through that agency,
under like authority.

Mr. Lyman M. Bass for appellant in No. 485.
Mr. George A. King, Mr. William B. King and Mr.

George R. Shields, for appellants in No. 480, submitted.
Mr. Chapman W. Maupin and Mr. Arthur H. Russell,

for appellant in No.740, submitted.

516

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

Mr. Solicitor General Beck, with whom Mr. Assistant
Attorney General Lovett, Mr. Alfred A. Wheat and Mr.
Alexander H. McCormick, Special Assistants to the Attorney General, were on the briefs, for the United States.
Mr. Louis Titus, by leave of court, filed, a brief as
amicus curiae in No. 485.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the
Court.
These cases, here on appeal from the Court of Claims,
differ in details of fact, but are controlled by the same
principles of law and depend alike upon the construction
and application of the same statutory provisions.
The salient facts in the case of the Motor Ca. Company are as follows: That company, on May 14, 1918,
entered into a contract, numbered 1498, with the United
States, acting through the Secretary of the Navy, to make
two hundred and fifty anti-air-craft gun mounts, at an
agreed price of $7,860 each, to be delivered at stipulated
periods, the last being the sixty days ending April 30, 1919.
Prior to the making of the foregoing contract, viz: in
November, 1917, a similar contract, numbered 949, had
been entered into by the same parties, the last period for
delivery being the sixty days ending January 15, 1919.
The actual work under contract 949 was begun about
March, 1918; and some time later, and after the making
of contract 1498, at the request of the company, the
Secretary consented to allow all shipments of mounts to
be applied upon contract 949 until its completion. Deliveries under that contract were finished in June, 1919.
On November 18, 1918, the Navy Department expressed a desire that the manufacture of gun mounts
under both contracts be greatly decreased and that the
company resume production of peace time products as
soon as possible " so that a minimum of economic dis-

RUSSELL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
514

Opinion of the Court.

turbance will be felt during the transition." In its communication the Navy Department requested that immediate arrangements be made for the reduction and eventual stoppage of production of materials under these contracts and the substitution therefor of commercial products, and that the company "initiate preparations for
cancellation along the lines indicated." On November 23,
1918, the company was notified that the Secretary had
authorized the cancellation of contract 1498, direcfed to
cease work in connection therewith not later than December 2, 1918, and informed that a just and fair settlement
would be made as provided by contract and in accordance
with the statute covering such cases. Extended negotiations followed in an effort to bring about a settlement and
the Secretary finally fixed the sum of $444,847.68 as just
compensation for the cancellation of the contract.
Seventy-five per cent. of this amount was paid and accepted by the company expressly without prejudice to its
rights.
The Court of Claims, after hearing the case, found that
just compensation for the cancellation of the contract was
the sum of $495,250.34, which amount included a number
of elements and items not necessary to be set forth. The
court further found that if the company had been permitted to complete the contract according to its terms it
could and would have earned a profit, in round figures, of
$960,000, but held that the action of the Secretary of the
Navy in cancelling the contract was within the authority
conferred by the statute, presently to be mentioned, and
that the company consequently was not entitled to an
award including anticipated profits.
The statute upon which this determination rested was
the Act of June 15, 1917, c. 29, 40 Stat. 182, making deficiency appropriations for the military and naval establishments on account of war expenses, and for other purposes. This act contained a provision, authorizing and

518

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

empowering the President, within the limits of the
amounts appropriated ". . . (b) to modify, suspend,
cancel, or requisition any existing or future contract for
the building, production, or purchase of ships or material."
The President was authorized to exercise the authority
conferred upon him by the act and expend the money
therein and thereafter appropriated "through such
agency or agencies as he shall determine from time to
time." The authority so far as it concerned the Navy,
was by him delegated to the Secretary.of the Navy in an
order dated August 21, 1917, "in so far as applicable to
and in furtherance of the construction of vessels for the
use of the Navy and of contracts for the construction of
such vessels, and the completion thereof, and all powers
and authority applicable to and in furtherance of the production, purchase and requisitioning of materials for construction of vessels for the Navy and for war materials,
equipment, and munitions required for the use of the
Navy, and the more economical and expeditious delivery
thereof." The word" material ", the act provided, should
include stores, supplies and equipment for ships and
everything required for or in connection with the production thereof, and in our opinion included the articles contracted for in this as well as in the other two cases. The
act provided that whenever the United States should cancok, modify, suspend, or requisition any contract just compensation should be made therefor to be determined by
the President. If the amount so determined should be
unsatisfactory the person entitled to receive it could accept seventy-five per cent. thereof and bring suit to
recover such further sum as added to the seventy-five per
celt. would make just compensation. By the terms of
the act the authority granted to the President or delegated
by him was to "cease six months after a final treaty of
peace is proclaimed between this Government and the
German Empire."

RUSSELL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
514

Opinion of the Court.

The Motor Car Company contends that Isubdivision
(b) of the statute above quotedapplies to private contracts alone' and affords no authority for the cancellation,
by the Government of its own contracts. The Court of
Claims held otherwise and whether its holding or the
company's contention is correct presents the principal
question for our consideration.
It must be apparent, we think; that the words of the
provision, "any existing or future contract," read with
literal exactness, include all contracts, whether private or
governmental. But it is.pointed out that the power to
"requisition" cannot apply to a governmental contract;
and this' may be conceded, since the Government cannot
requisition what it already, has. Then it is said that
inasmuch as the. application of the word " requisition"
must be confined to private contracts, the other words
associated with it must be'likewise restricted by virtue
of the maxim Noscitur a sociis. That a word may be
known by the company it keeps is, however, not an invariable rule, for the word may have a character of its
6wn not to be submerged by its association. Rules of
statutory construction are to be invoked- as aids to the
ascertainment of the meaning or application of words
otherwise obscure or doubtful. They have no place, as
this Court .has many.times held, except in the domain of
ambiguity. Hamilton v. Rathbone, 175 U. S. 414, 421;
United States v. Barnes, 222 U. S. 513; 518-519. They
may not be used to create but only to remove doubt. Id
Moreover, in cases of ambiguity the rule here relied upon
is not exclusive. The problem may be submitted to all
appropriate' and reasonable tests, of which Noscitur a
sociis is one. ,Here we have one word which it may be
conceded applies only to private contracts, but the other
tl ree words standing, alone, it likewise must be conceded,
naturally apply to governmental contracts as well. Indeed, they more naturally apply to such contracts. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

power to modify the obligations of a private contract is,
to say the least, a most unusual one for governmental
exercise. To modify a contract is in effect to make a
new one, and it puts something of a strain on our conception of the functions of government to concede its
power to make contracts between private parties to
which 'neither may assent and which, consequently,
neither will be bound to perform.
We do not mean to deny the power of Congress, in
time of war, to authorize the President to modify private
contracts (leaving the parties free, as between themselves, to accept or not), nor do we suggest that Congress has not done so by the present statute; but the
contention here is not that the power in question extends to private contracts but that it is limited to them.
This cannot be conceded. The meaning of the four predicate words is not doubtful;-in that respect, as well as
in their operative scope, they obviously differ from one
another. The question we are called upon to answer is
whether, because the words " any . . .
contract"
must be given a narrower meaning when qualified by the
predicate "requisition," their meaning must be limited
in like manner when qualified by one of the other three
predicates. Noscitur a sociis is a well established and
useful rule of construction where words are of obscure or
doubtful meaning; and then, but only then, its aid may
be sought to remove the obscurity or doubt by reference
to the associated words. Virginia v. Tennessee, 148 U. S.
503, 519; Benson v. Chicago, etc., Ry. Co., 75 Minn.
163. But here the meaning of the words considered severally is not in doubt, and the rule is invoked not to
remove an obscurity but to import one. There is nothing in the rule or in the statute which requires us to
assimilate the words "modify" and "cancel" to the
scope of the word "requisition," simply because the
latter has a necessarily narrower application. The

RUSSELL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
514
-

521

Opinion of the Court.

meaning of the several words, standing apart, being perfectly plain, what should be done is to apply them distributively, diverso intuitu, giving to each its natural
value and appropriate scope when read in connection
with the object (any contract) which they are severally
meant to control. Thus, the predicate "requisition"
will be limited to private contracts, while the other words
may be appropriately extended to include governmental
contracts as well. An illustration is afforded by the
Commerce Clause of the Constitution. The power to
regulate interstate and foreign commerce is found in the
same clause and conferred by the same words, but the
scope of the power when applied to the former may be
narrower than when applied to the latter. Groves v.
Slaughter, 15 Pet. 449, 505.
This disposition of the question also accords with the
broad purposes of the legislation. When the act was
passed we were in the midst of a great war, which called
for the utiliation of all our resources. The necessities
were great, beyond the power of statement. The Government was confronted with the vital necessity not only of
producing ships and supplies in unprecedented quantities
but of producing them with the utmost haste. Hence it
was necessary that everything which stood in the way of
or hindered such production should be put aside. But
this was a necessity which Congress, of course, realized
must sooner or later come to an end, suddenly and completely. With the termination of the war the continued
production of war supplies would become not only unnecessary but wasteful. Not to provide, therefore, for the
cessation .of this production when the need for it had
passed would have been a distinct neglect of the public
interest. The situation, it is plain, required that production should proceed while the war lasted to the utmost
limit of the Nation's power, but that it should come to
an end as soon as possible upon the passing of the emer-

522

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

gency. In the light of these circumstances, it is not unreasonable to regard the statute now under consideration
as intended to accomplish both results, that is: (1) to
enable the President, during the emergency, to utilize his
powers over contracts to stimulate production to the
utmost, and then, (2) upon the passing of the emergency,
to enable him to utilize these same powers to stop that
production as quickly as possible. To the latter accomplishment authority to modify and cancel government war
contracts would contribute most effectively. These considerations lend support to the judgment of the court
below construing the statute as having this effect.
In this connection it is not without significance that
the authority granted to the President was to cease six
months after a final treaty of peace. Obviously, the
powers granted to him-among them to modify and cancel
contracts-were to continue during the six months' period
not for the purpose of forwarding war production but, on
the contrary, for the purpose of stopping it. To that end,
we conclude, he was authorized to cancel the Government's own contracts such as the one here involved, up n
making just compensation to the parties concerned.
We are referred to the utterances of certain members
of Congress in debate, which it is argued show that the
provision under consideration was meant to cover private
contracts. Whether they come within the rule forbidding
resort to legislative debates, Lapinav. Williams, 232 U. S.
78, 90; Omaha & Council Bluffs Street Ry. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 230 U. S. 324, 333; Standard Oil Co. v. United States, 221 U. S. 1, 50; United States
v. Trans-MissouriFreightAssociation, 166 U. S. 290, 318,
or within the exception, Wisconsin Railroad Commission
v. Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co., 257 U. S. 563,
588, we need not consider, since, for reasons already stated,
extrinsic aid for ascertaining the meaning of the language
here under review is not required. Besides, though they

RUSSELL CO. v. UNITED STATES.
514

523

Opinion of the Court.

may tend to show that the"statute was meant to apply to
private contracts, these utterances do not justify the conclusion that the statute was not meant to apply togovernmental contracts also.
Certain other contentions of the Car Company may be
briefly disposed of. In the first place, it is said that the.
President did not delegate his power respecting contracts
to the Secretary of the. Navy, and it is suggested that
that officer did not in fact pretend to cancel this contract
under the statute. The order of the President delegating
his authority to the Secretary is in sweeping terms and
it is impossible to conclude otherwise than that it was
intended to cover .the whole field of power in so far as it
pertained to the Navy. Executive power, in the main,
must of necessity be exercised by the President through
the various departments. These departments constitute
his peculiar and intimate agencies and in devolving authority upon them meticulous precision of language is
neither expected nor required. In cancelling the contract
it was not niecessary that the statute should be expressly
referred to. It was, public law of which everyone was
bound to take notice.
It is contended, further, that even if the action of the
"Secretary of-the Navy was warranted bythe statute, the
Car Company was nevertheless entitled to have included
as just compensation its anticipated profits.
' This contention confuses the measure of damages for
breach of contract with the rule of just compensation for
the lawful -taking of property by the power of eminent
domain. In fixing just compensation the court must consider the value of the contract at the time of its cancellation, not what it would have produced by way of profits
for the Car Company if it had been fully performed. It
is evident that no prudent person, desiring to acquire this
contract, would have paid. for it the full amount which
could be realized upon completion, leaving no chance of

524

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

return to himself upon the investment or for the risk and
labor incident to its performance. The contract, we
must assume, was entered into with the prospect of its
cancellation in view, since the statute was binding and
must be read into the contract. The possible loss of
profits, therefore, must be regarded as within the contemplation of the parties. The lower court was right in
refusing to allow anticipated profits and, there being
nothing in the findings to justify the contrary, we must
accept the amount fixed on the basis of just compensation as adequate.
Our attention is directed to the fact that prior to the
cancellation of contract No. 1498, the Car Company had
manufactured twenty-five mounts, which it would have
delivered under that contract except for the fact that they
were made applicable to the former contract, No. 949;
and it is insisted that the profit which the Car Company
would have made upon these mounts should have been
included in the amount of its compensation in any event.
It is sufficient to say that the Car Company was permitted to deliver these mounts under its former contract
at its own request. Presumably the full contract price
therefor was paid in the adjustment of that contract.
It is unnecessary to burden this opinion with a statement of the facts in the Freygang and Anderson Manufacturing Company cases. They are not differentiated
in any essential respect from the case of the Motor Car
Company and are governed by the same reasons and
conclusions.
The judgments of the Court of Claims are severally
Affirmed.

