OCTOBER TERM, 1922.

86

Syllabus.

261 U. S.

opinions, and that the Court of Appeals was right in

reversing the District Court and in directing a dismissal
of the bill. We do not find it necessary, therefore, to
consider the questions raised at the bar as to whether the
Railroad Labor Board is a corporation under the act and
capable of suing or being sued, without the consent of the
United States, and whether the Board's publication of its
opinions in matters beyond its jurisdiction could be properly enjoined by a court of equity.

Decree affirmed.
MOORE ET AL. v. DEMPSEY, KEEPER OF THE
ARKANSAS STATE PENITENTIARY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.

No. 199. Argued January 9, 1923.-Decided February 19, 1923.
1. Upon an appeal from an order of the District Court dismissing a
petition for habeas corpus upon demurrer, the allegations of fact
pleaded in the petition and admitted by the demurrer must be
accepted as true. P. 87.
2. A trial for murder in a state court in which the accused are
hurried to conviction under mob domination without regard for
their rights, is without due process of law and absolutely void.
P. 90.
3. In the absence of sufficient corrective proces afforded by the
state courts, when persons held under a death sentence and alleging facts showing that their conviction resulted from such a trial,
apply to the Federal District Court for habeas corpus, that court
must find whether the facts so. alleged are true, and whether they
can be explained so far as to leave the state proceedings undisturbed. P. 91.
Reversed.

from an order of the District Court dismissing
a petition for habeas corpus upon demurker.
AxPEAL

Mr. U. S. Bratton and Mr. Moorfield Storey for appellants.

MOORE v. DEMPSEY.
Opinion of the Court.

86

Mr. Elbert Godwin, with whom Mr. 3. S. Utley, Attorney General of the State of Arkansas, and Mr. Win. T.
Hammock were on the brief, for appellee.

MR.

JUSTiCE

HoLums delivered theopinion of the

Court.
This is an appeal from an order of the District Court
for the Eastern District of Arkansas dismissing a writ of
habeascorpus upon demurrer, the presiding judge certifying that there was probable cause for allowing the appeal.
There were two cases originally, but by agreement they
were consolidated into one. The appellants are five
negroes who were convicted of murder in the first degree
and sentenced to death by the Court of the State of
Arkansas. The ground of the petition for the writ is that
the proceedings in the State Court, although a trial in
form, were only a form, and that the appellants were hurried to conviction under the pressure of a mob without
any regard for their rights and without according to them
due process of law.
The ease stated by the petition is as follows, and it will
be understood that while we put it in narrative form, we
are not affirming the facts to be as stated but only what
we must take them to be, as they are admitted by the
demurrer: On the night of September 30, 1919, a number
'of colored people assembled in their church were attacked
and fired upon by a body of white men, and in the disturbance that followed a white man was killed. The report of
the-killing caused great excitement and was followed by
the hunting down and shooting of many negroes and also
by- the killing on October 1 of one Clinton Lee, a whitd
man, for whose murder the petitioners were indicted.
They seem to have been arrested with many others on
the same day. The petitioners say that Lee must have
been killed by other whites, but that we leavq on one side
as-what'we have to deal with is not the petitioners' inno-

88

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

cence or .guilt but solely the question whether their constitutional rights have been preserved. They say that
their meeting was to employ counsel for protection
against extortions practiced upon them by the landowners
and that the landowners tried to prevent their effort, but
that again we pass by as not directly bearing upon the
trial. It should be mentioned however that 0. S. Bratton,
a son of the counsel who is said to-have been contemplated
and who took part in the .argument here, arriving for consultation on October 1, is said to have barely escaped being mobbed; that he was arrested and confined during the
month on a charge of murder and on October 31 was indicted for barratry, but later in the day was told that he
would be discharged but that he must leave secretly by a
closed automobile to take the train at West Helena, four
miles away, to avoid being mobbed. It is alleged that the
judge of the Court in which the petitioners were tried
facilitated the departure and went with Bratton to see
him safely off.
A Committee of Seven was appointed by the Governor
in regard to what the committee called the " insurrection"
in the county. The newspapers daily published inflammatory articles. On the 7th a statement by one of the
committee was made public to the effect that the present
trouble -was "a deliberately planned insurrection of the
negroes against the whites, directed by an organization
known as the' Progressive Farmers' and Household Union
of America' established for the purpose of banding negroes together for the killing of white people." According to the statement the organization was started by a
swindler to get money from the blacks.
Shortly after the arrest of the petitioners a mob
marched to the jail for the purpose of lynching them but
were prevented by the presence of United States troops
ind the promise of some of the Committee of Seven and
other leading officials that if the mob would refrain, as

MOORE v. DEMPSEY.
86

Opinion of the Court.

the petition puts it, they would execute those found guilty
in the form of law. The Committee's own statement was
that the reason that the people refrained from mob violence was " that this Committee gave our citizens their
solemn promise that the law would be carried out." According to affidavits of two white men and the colored
witnesses on whose testimony the petitioners were convicted, produced by the petitioners since the last decision
of the Supreme Court hereafter mentioned, the Committee made good their promise by calling colored witnesses
and having them whipped and tortuted until they would
say what was wanted, among them being:the two relied
on to prove the petitioners' guilt. However this may lie,
a grand jury of white men was organized on October 27
with Qne of the Committee of Seven and, it is alleged,
with many of a posse organized to fight the blacks, upon
it, and on the morning of the 29th the indictment was returned. On November 3 the petitioners were brought
into Court, informed that a certain lawyer was appointed
their counsel and were placed on trial .before a -white
jury-blacks being systematically excluded from both
grand and petit juries. The Court and neighborhood were
thronged with an adverse crowd that threatened the most
dangerous consequences to anyone interfering with the
desired result. The counsel-did not venture to demand
delay or a change of venue, to challenge a juryman or to
ask for separate trials. He had had no preliminary consultation with the accused, called no witnesses for the.
defence although they could have been produced,'and did
not put the defendants on the stand. The trial lasted
about three-quarters of an hour and in less than five
minutes the jury brought in a verdict of guilty of murder
in the first degree. According to the allegations and
affidavits there never was a chance for the petitioners to
be acquitted;
juryman could have voted for an
acquittal and continued to live in Phillips County and if
-no

90

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S:

any prisoner by any chance had been acquitted by a jury
he could not have escaped the mob.
The averments as to the prejudice by which the trial
was environed have some corroboration in appeals to the
Governor, about a year later, earnestly urging him not
to interfere with the execution of the petitioners. One
came from five members of the Committee of Seven, and
stated in addition to what has been quoted heretofore
that "all our citizens are of the opinion that the law
should take its course." Another from a part of the
American Legion protests against a contemplated commutation of the sentence of four of the petitioners and
repeats that a "solemn promise was given by the leading
citizens of the community that if the guilty parties were
not lynched, and let the law take its course, that justice
would be done and the majesty of the law upheld." A
meeting of the Helena Rotary Club attended by members
representing, as it said, seventy-five of the leading industrial and commercial enterprises of Helena, passed a
resolution approving and supporting the action of the
American Legion post. The Lions. Club of Helena at a
meeting attended by members said to represent sixty of
the leading industrial and commercial enterprises of the
city passed a resolution to the same effect. In May of
the same year, a trial of six other negroes was coming on
and it was represented to the Governor by the white citizens and officials of Phillips County that in all probability
those negroes would be lynched. It is alleged that in
order to appease the mob spirit and in a measure secure
the safety of the six the Governor fixed the date. for the
execution of the petitioners at June 10, 1921, but that the
execution was stayed by proceedings in Court; we presume the proceedings before the Chancellor to which we
shall advert
In Frank v. Mangum, 237 U. S. 309, 335, it was recognized of course'that if in fact a trial is dominated by a

MOORE v. DEMPSEY.
86

Opinion of the Court.

mob so that there is an actual interference with the course
of justice, there is a departure from due process of law;
and that "if the State, supplying no corrective process,
carries into execution a judgment of death or imprisonment based upon a verdict thus produced by mob domination, the State deprives the accused of his life or liberty
without due process of law." We assume in accordance
with that case that the corrective process supplied by the
State may"be so adequate that interference by habeas
corpus ought not to be allowed. It certainly is true that
mere mistakes of law in the course of a trial are not to.be
corrected in that way. But if the case is that the whole
proceeding is a mask-that counsel, 'jury and .judge were
swept to the fatal end by an irresistible wave of public
passion, and that the State Courts failed to correct the
wrong, neither perfection in the machinery for correction
nor the possibility that the trial court and counsel saw
no other way of avoiding an immediate outbreak of the
mob can prevent this Court from securing to the petitioners their constitutional rights.
In this case a motion for a new trial on the ground
alleged in this petition was overruled and upon exceptions
and appeal to the Supreme Court the judgment was
affirmed. The Supreme Court said that the complaint
of discrimination against petitioners by the exclusion of
colored men from the jury came too late and by way of
answer to the objection that no fair trial could be had in
the circumstances, stated that it could not say "that this
must necessarily have been the case "; that eminent
counisel was appointed to defend the petitioners, that the
trial was had according to law, the jury correctly charged,
and the testimony legally sufficient. On June 8, 1921, two
days before the date fixed for their execution, a petition
for habeas corpus was presented to the Chancellor and
he issued the writ and an injunction against the. execution
of the petitioners; but the Supreme Court of the State

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
McReynolds and Sutherland, JJ., dissenting.

261 U. S.

held that the Chancellor had no jurisdiction under the
state law whatever might be the law of the United States.
The present petition perhaps was suggested by the language of the Court: "What the result would be of an application to a Federal Court we need not inquire." It was
presented to the District Court on September 21. We
shall not say more concerning the corrective process
afforded to the petitioners than that it does not seem to
us sufficient to allow a Judge of the United States to
escape ihe duty of examining the facts for himself when
if true as alleged they make the trial absolutely void. We
have confined the statement to facts admitted by the
demurrer. We will not say that they cannot be met, but
it appears to us unavoidable that the District Judge
should find whether the facts alleged are true and whether
they can be explained so far as to leave the state proceedings undisturbed.
Order reversed. The case to stand for hearing before
the District Court.
Mr. Justice McREYoLDs, dissenting.
We are asked to overrule the judgment of the District
Court discharging a writ of habeas corpus by means of
which five negroes sought to escape electrocution for the
murder of Clinton Lee. § 753, Rev. Stats.1 They were
convicted and sentenced in the Circuit Court of Phillips
County, Arkansas, two years before the writ issued. The
petition for the writ was supported by affidavits of these
five ignorant men whose lives were at stake, the ex parte
affidavits of three other negroes who had pleaded guilty
"The

writ of habeas corpus shall in no case extend to a prisoner

in jail, unless where he is in custody under or by color of the authority
of the United States, or is committed for trial before some. court
thereof, or is in custody for an act done or omitted in pursuance
of a law of the United States, or-,of an order, process, or decree ofa court or judge thereof; or is in custody in violation of the Constitution or of a law or treaty of the United States; or, being a subject

MOORE v. DEMPSEY.
86

McReynolds and Sutherland, JJ., dissenting.

and were then confined in the, penitentiary under sentences for the same murder, and the affidavits of two
white men-low villains according to their own admissions. It should be remembered that to narrate the allegations of the petition is but to repeat statements from
these sources. Considering all the circumstances-the
course of the cause in the state courts and upon application here for certiorari, etc.,--the District Court held
the alleged facts insufficient prima facie to show nullity of
the original judgment.
The matter is one of gravity. If every man convicted
of crime in a state court may thereafter resort to the
federal court and by swearing, as advised, that certain
allegations of fact tending to impeach his trial are "true
to the best of his knowledge and belief," thereby obtain
as of right further review, another way has been added
to a list already unfoitunately long to prevent prompt
punishment. The delays incident to enforcement of
our criminal laws have become a national scandal and
give serious alarm to those who observe. Wrongly to
decide the present cause probably will produce very unfortunate consequences.
In Frank v. Mangum, 237 U. S. 309, 325, 326, 327, 329,
335, after great consideration a majority of this Court
approved the doctrine which should be applied here.
The doctrine is right and wholesome. I can not agree
now to put it aside and substitute the views expressed
by the minority of the Court in that cause.
Much of the opinion in the Frank Case might be
repeated here if emphasis were necessary. It will suffice
or citizen of a foreign state, and domiciled therein, is in custody for an
act done or omitted under any alleged right, title, authority, privilege, protection, or. exemption claimed under the commission, or
order, or sanction of any foreign state, or under color thereof, the
validity and effect whereof depend upon the law of natiofis; or unless
it is necessary to bring the prisoner into court to testify."

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
McReynolds and Sutherland, JJ., dissenting.

261 U. S.

to quote a few paragraphs; but fully to understand the
whole should be read.
"In dealing with these contentions, we should have
in mind the nature and extent of the duty that is imposed
upon a Federal court on application for the writ of habeas
corpus under § 753, Rev. Stat. Under the terms of that
section, in order to entitle the present appellant to the
relief sought, it must appear that he is held in custody
in violation of the Constitution of the United States.
Rogers v. Peck, 199 U. S. 425, 434. Moreover, if he is
held in custody by reason of his conviction upon a criminal charge before a court having plenary jurisdiction over
the subject-matter or offense, the place where it was committed, and the person of the prisoner, it results from the
nature of the writ itself that he cannot have relief on
habeas corpus. Mere errors in point of law, however
serious, committed by a criminal court in the exercise of
its jurisdiction over- a case properly subject to 'its
cognizance, cannot be reviewed by habeas corpus. That
writ cannot be employed as a substitute for the writ of
error.
"As to the 'due process of law' that is required by the
Fourteenth Amendment, it is perfectly well settled thlat
a criminal prosecution in the courts of a State, based upon
a law not in itself repugnant to the Federal Constitution,
and conducted according to the settled course of judicial
proceedings as established by the law of the-State, so long
as it includes notice, and a hearing, or an opportunity
to be heard, before a court of competent jurisdiction,
according to established modes of procedure, is 'due
process' in the constitutional sense. . .
" It is, therefore, conceded by counsel for appellant that
in the present case we may not review irregularities or
erroneous rulings upon the trial, however serious, and that
the writ of habeascorpus will lie only in case the judgment
under which the prisoner is detained is shown to be abso-

MOORE v. DEMPSEY.
86

McReynolds and Sutherland, JJ., dissenting.

lutely void for want of jurisdiction in-the court that pronounced it, either because such jurisdiction was absent at
the beginning or because it was lost in the course of the
proceedings.
"But it would be clearly erroneous to confine the inquiry to the proceedings and judgment of the trial court.
The laws of the State of Georgia (as will appear from decisions elsewhere cited), provide for an appeal in criminal
cases to the Supreme Court of that State upon divers
grounds, including such as those upon which it is here
asserted that the trial court was lacking in jurisdiction. .
"It follows as a logical consequence that where, as here,
a criminal prosecution has proceeded through all the
courts of the State, including the appellate as well as the
trial court, the result of the appellate review cannot be
ignored when afterwards the prisoner applies for his release on the ground of a deprivation of Federal rights
sufficient to oust the State of its jurisdiction to proceed to
judgment and execution against him. This is not a mere
matter of comity, as seems to be supposed. The rule
stands upon a much higher plane, for it arises out of the
very nature and ground of the inquiry into the proceedings of the state tribunals, and touches closely upon the
relations between the state and the Federal governments.
As was declared by this court in Ex parte Royall, 117
U. S. 241, 252-applying in a habeas corpus case what was
said in Covell v. Heyman, 111 U. S. 176, 182, a case of
conflict of jurisdiction:--' The forbearance which courts
of c irdinate jurisdiction, administered under a single system, exercise towards each other, whereby conflicts are
avoided, by avoiding interference with the process of each
other, is a principle of comity, with perhaps no higher
sanction than the utility which comes from concord; but
between state courts and those of the United States it is
something more. It'is a principle of right and of law,

96

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
McReynolds and Sutherland, JJ., dissenting.

261 U. S.

and, therefore, of necessity.' And see In re Tyler, Petitioner, 149 U. S. 164, 186.
"We of course agree that if a trial is in fact dominated
by a mob, so that the jury is intimidated and the trial
judge yields, and so that there is an actual interference
with the course of justice, there is, in that court, a departure from due process of law in the proper sense of that
term. And if the State, supplying no corrective process,
carries into execution a judgment of death or imprisonment based upon a verdict thus produced by mob domination, the State deprives the accused of his life or liberty
without due process of law.
"But the State may supply such corrective process as
to it seems proper. Georgia has adopted the familiar procedure of a motion for a new trial followed by an appeal
to its Supreme Court, not confined to the mere record of
conviction but going at large, and upon evidence adduced
outside of that record, into the question whether the
processes of justice have been interfered with in the trial
court. Repeated instances are reported of verdicts and
judgments set-aside and new trials granted for disorder or
mob violence interfering with the prisoner's right to a fair
trial. Myers v. State, 97 Georgia 76(5), 99; Collier.v.
State, 115 Georgia, 803."
Let us consider with some detail what was presented to
the court below.
There was the complete record of the cause in the state
courts-trial and Supreme-showing no irregularity.
After indictment the defendants were arraigned for trial
and eminent counsel appointed to defend them. He crossexamined the witnesses, made exceptions and evidently
was careful to preserve a full and complete transcript of
the proceedings. The trial was unusually short but there
is nothing in the record to indicate that it was illegally
hastened. November 3, 1919, the jury returned a verdict
of "giilty;" November l1th the defendants were sen-

MOORE v. DEMPSEY.
86

.McReynolds and Sutherland, JJ., dissenting.

tenced to be executed on December 27th; December 20th'

new counsel chosen by them or their friends moved for a
new trial and supported the motion by affidavits of defendants and two other negroes who declared they testified
falsely because of torture. This motion questioned the
validity of the conviction upon the very grounds now
advanced-torture, prejudice, mob domination, failure of
counsel to protect interests, etc. It is thus summarized
by counsel for appellants"The grounds urged in the motion were the state of
public feeling against the defendants, the fact that the
defendants and witnesses were frequently subjected to
torture for the putpose of extracting from them admissions
of guilt and to make them testify against the defendants;
that they were given no opportunity to consult with their
friends and seek assistance, or informed of the charge
against them until after their indictment; that they were
•earried from jail to the courtroom without having been
permitted to see or talk with an attorney or any other
person in regard to their defense; that the court appointed
counsel for the defendants without consulting them, or
giving them an opportunity to employ their own counsel;
that the state of public feeling was such that they could
not have a fair jury; that the trial proceeded without their
consulting with their counsel or any witnesses' or being
given an opportunity to obtain witnesses; that they were
never in court before and were entirely ignorant of what
they could do to defend themselves; that the trial from
beginning to end occupied three-fourths of an hour and
the verdict was returned in from three to six minutes.
Four of the defendants say that they never had a copy of
the indictment served upon them, one had it only. fortyeight hours before the trial.
"Another ground was that under the practice, which
prevailed in the State only white men were summoned

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
McReynolds and Sutherland, JJ., dissenting.

261 U. S.

to sit on the grand jury or the jury, and that by this discrimination the defendants were deprived of their 'rights
under the Constitution of the United States; that they
had no notice or knowledge of what steps they should
take to raise this point before the trial; that the verdict
is contrary to the law and evidence.
"To this motion are attached two affidavits, one of Alf
Banks, Jr., and another of William Wordlaw who testified
to the fact that they were whipped, placed in the electric
chair and strangled by something put in their noses to
make them testify. These defendants did not suffer
from what was done to these witnesses as they did not
testify at their trial, but their affidavits confirm the testimony of the others as to the treatment to which the
Negroes in confinement were exposed."
A new trial having been denied, an appeal was granted
to the State Supreme Court and sixty days allowed for
preparing bill of exceptions; March 22, 1920, this appeal
was argued orally and by briefs; March 29th the court
announced its opinion, reviewed the proceedings and
affirmed the judgment. Hicks v. State, 143 Ark. 158. A
petition for rehearing was presented April 19th and overruled April 26th.
A petition for certiorari filed in this Court May 24,
1920, with the record of proceedings in the state courts,
set forth in detail the very grounds of complaint now
before us. It was presented October 5th, denied October
11th, 1920.
April 29, 1921, the Governdi directed execution of the
defendants on June 10th. June 8th the Chancery Court
of Pulaski County granted them a writ of habeas corpus;
on June 20th the State Supreme Court held that the
Chancery Court lacked jurisdiction and prohibited further proceedings. State v. Martineau, 149 Ark. 237.
August 4th a justice of this Court denied writ of error.
Thereupon, the Governor fixed September 23rd for execu-

MOORE v. DEMPSEY.
86

McReynolds and Sutherland, JJ., dissenting.

tion. On September .21st the -present habeas corpus proceeding began, and since then the matter has been in the
courts.
It appears that during September, 1919, bloody conflicts took place between whites and blacks in Phillips
County, Arkansas--" The Elaine Riot." Man negroes
and some whites were killed. A committee of sev,-n
prominent white then was chosen to direct operations in
putting down the so-called insurrection and conduct investigation with a view of discovering and punishing the
guilty. This committee published a statement, certainly
not intemperate, about October 7th, wherein they stated
the "ignorance and superstition of a race of children."
was played upon for'gain by a black swindler, and told
of an organization to attack the whites. It urged all persons white or black, in possession of information which
might assist in discovering those responsible for the insurrection, to confer with it, upon the understanding that'
such action would be for the public safety and informant's
identity carefully safeguarded. I find nothing in this
statement which counsels lawlessness or indicates more
than an honest effort by upstanding men to meet the
grave situation.
It is true that in October, 1920, almost a year after the
trial here under consideration, the American Legion post
at Helena-approximately three hundred ex-service white
men-made protest to the Governor against commutation
of the sentences. It is copied in the margin as printed
in the record.' The Helena Rotary Club, November 10,
2" RSOLUTON.
"It has been brought to the attention of the Richard L.Kitchens
Post, No. 31, American Legion, Helena, Arkansas, that the Govenior
is contemplating commuting the sentence of four of the negroes, who
are now under death sentences for their participation in the Elaine
Riot, to lesser sentences, and we, the members of this Post, feel that
any action toward this end by the Governor would do more harm in

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
McReynolds and Sutherland, JJ., dissenting.

261 U. S.

1920, expressed emphatic approval of this protest, and the
Lions Club took like action. These resolutions are not
violent and certainly do not establish the theory that
defendants' conviction in November, 1919-a year before-was an empty form and utterly void; nor, as the
the community and breed lawls.sness, as well as disregard for constituted authority, as at the time of this race riot the members of
this Post were called upon to go to Hoop Spur and Elaine to protect
life and property, and in compliance with this request, there were
two American Legion members kiled. and one seriously injured,
besides the other non-members w!ho also perished, and when the
guilty negroes were apprehended, a solemn promise was given by the
leading citizens of the community, that if these guilty parties were
not lynched, and let the law take its course, that justice would be
done and the majesty of the law upheld.
"The twelve negroes now under sentence of death, but whose
sentences, are suspended-account of court procedure, and six of
these negro cases have-taken to the Supreme Court of the United
States, which court dedlined to review. The other six cases, whose
original trials were reversed and new trials given them, were convicted, and cheir cases were appealed to the Supreme Court of the
State and attorneys of their own selection were permitted to handle
their cases.
"Now therefore be it resolved by this Post assembled on this the
19th day of October, 1920, that we most earnestly protest against the
commutation of any of the sentences of these twelve negroes convicted of murder in the Elaine riot of October 1919, their having
received a fair trial and-proven guilty, and the leniency of the
court was shown in the balance of the cases tried, these being the
ring leaders and guilty murderers, and that law and order will be
vindicated and a solemn promisekJept.
"Be it further resolved that a committee of four be appointed
by the Post Commander. This Committee is hereby empowered to
represent this Post at a conference, or several conferences, with the
Governor of Arkansas and to take such steps as they may deem
necessary to carry out the wishes of this resolution and leaving
nothing undone to have these sentences carried out. This committee to report in full to the next meeting of this Post.
"Passd unanimously 8:30 P. M. October 19, 1920, basement of the
Episcopal Church, Helena, Arkansas."

MOORE v. DEMPSEY.
86

-McReynolds and Sutherland, JJ., dissenting.

petition recklessly alleges, do they "further and conclusively show the existence of the mob spirit prevailing
among all the white people of Phillips County at the time
petitioners and the other defendants were put through
the form of trials and show that the only reason the mob
stayed its hand; the only reason they were not lynched
was that the leading citizens of the community made a
solemn promise to the mob that they should be executed
in the form of law."
The Supreme Court of the State twice reversed the
conviction of other negroes charged with committing
murder during the disorders of September, 1919. The
first opinion canie down on th; very day upon which the
judgment against petitioners was affirmed, and held the
verdict so defective that no judgment could be entered
upon-it. The second directed a reversal because the trial
court had refused to hear evidence- on the motion to set
aside the regular panel of the petit jury. Banks v. State,
143 Ark. 154; Ware v. State, .46 Ark. 321. The Supreme
Court, as well as the trial court, considered the claims
of petitioners set forth by trusted counsel in the motion
for a new trial. This Court denied a petition for certiorari wherein the facts and circumstances now relied
upon were set out with great detail. Years have passed
since they were convicted of an atrocious crime. Certainly they have not been rushed towards the death chair;
on the contrary there has been long delay and some impatience over the result is not unnatural. The recent
execution of assassins in England within thirty days of
the crime, affords a striking contrast.
With all those things before him, I am unable to say
that the District Judge, acquainted with local conditions,
erred when he held the petition for the writ of habeas
*corpus insufficient. His duty was to consider the whole
case and decide whether there appeared to be substantial
reason for further proceedings.

102

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

261 U. S.

Under the disclosed circumstances I cannot agree that

the solemn adjudications by courts of a great State, which
this Court has refused to review, can be successfully impeached by the mere ex parte affidavits made upon information and belief of ignorant convicts joined by two white
men-confessedly atrocious criminals. The fact that petitioners are poor and ignorant and black naturally
arouses sympathy; but that does not release us from enforcing principles which are essential to the orderly operation of our federal system.
I am authorized to say that MR. JusTICE

SUTmELAND

concurs in this dissent.
DIAZ, IN HIS OWN RIGHT, ETC., ET AL. v. CARLOTA AND CLEMENTINA GONZALEZ Y LUGO,
ETC., ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIRST CIRCUIT.
No. 263. Argued January 24, 1923.--Decided February 19, 1923.
1. Power to authorize a parent to sell the interest of a minor child
in land in Porto Rico, is not limited by the Porto Rican Civil
Code, § 229 as amended in 1907, to the District Court of the
Judicial District in which the property is situated, but may be
exercised, under §§ 76 and 77 of the Code of Civ. Proc. 1904, by the
court of another District to wbich the ez parte application is submitted. P. 103.
2. An interpretation of law which has become a rule of property, accepted by the practise of a community, should not be disttirbed
unless certainly wrong. P. 105.
3. Peculiar deference is due from this Court to the views of local matters taken by courts which, like the courts of Porto Rico, have inherited and been brought up in a different system of law to that
which prevails here. P. 105.
276 Fed. 108, reversed.

