600

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U.S.

HODGES ET AL. v. SNYDER ET AL., AS MEMBERS
OF THE BOARD OF EDUCATION OF THE ERWIN INDEPENDENT CONSOLIDATED SCHOOL
DISTRICT NO. 1, OF KINGSBURY COUNTY,
SOUTH DAKOTA, ET AL.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF KINGSBURY COUNTY,
NINTH JUDICIAL CIRCUIT OF THE STATE OF SOUTH
DAKOTA.

No. 432. Motion to dismiss or affirm submitted February 26, 1923.Decided April 9, 1923.
1. Where, under the local practice, the original papers.sent to the
State Supreme Court as the record on appeal are remitted by that
court with copies of its judgment and opinion to a lower court,
without retaining a copy of such record, a writ of error from this
Court to review the judgment of the State Supreme Court is properly directed to the lower court in which the record then is found.
P. 601.
2. The right of a taxpayer in a decree enjoining the maintenance of
an illegal school district and issuance of bonds therefor, is not
private but public in character; and its loss through an act of the
legislature validating the district but not affecting his right to
costs, does not deprive him of property without due process of law.
P. 601.
45 S. Dak. 149, affirmed.
ERROR to review a judgment of the Supreme Court of
South Dakota reversing, except as to costs, a decree of the
State Circuit Court (to which the record was remitted),
which permanently enjoined the defendants in error from
maintaining a consolidated school district and issuing
bonds therefor.

Mr. Samuel Herrick,Mr. PhiloHall and Mr. Wallace E.
Purdy for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. T. H. Null and Mr. Max Royhl for defendants in
error.
MR. JUSTICE SANFORD delivered the opinion of the Court.

-The defendants in error move to dismiss the writ of
error or affirm the judgment.

.HODGES v. SNYDER.
600

Opinion 'of the Court.

1. The ground of the motion to dismiss is that there is
want of jurisdiction because the writ is not directed to
the Supreme Court of the State. It was sued out to review a final judgment of that court reversing, on appeal,
an order of the Circuit Court, and remanding the cause
with direction to vacate the same. Under the local practice the original papers that had been transmitted to the
Supreme Court as the record on the appeal, were remitted
to the Circuit Court, with copies of the judgment and
opinion of the Supreme Court (Rev. Code, S. Dak., 1919,
ยง 3170); no copy of such record being retained by the
Supreme Court. The rule of practice has been long established that in such case, in order to bring up the record
which is essential to a review of the judgment of the
appellate court, the writ of error is properly directed to
the lower court in which the record is then found. Gelston
v. Hoyt, 3 Wheat. 246, 304, 335; McGuire v. Commonwealth, 3 Wall. 382, 386; Atherton v. Fowler, 91 U. S.
143, 148; Polleys v. Black River Co., 113 U. S. 81, 82;
McDonald v. Massachusetts, 180 U. S. 311, 312; Sioux
Remedy Co. v. Cope, 235 U. S.197, 200 (involving a similar writ of error to another circuit court-of South Dakota);
and other cases therein cited. Hence the motion to dismiss is denied.
2. The ground of the alternative motion to affirm the
judgment of the Supreme Court is that the writ was taken
for delay only and presents- no substantial question for
review. It should be granted if the questions on which
the decision depends are so wanting in substance as not
to need further argument. Rule 6, ยง 5; Missouri Pacific
Ry. Co. v. Castle, 224 U. S. 541, 544; Chicago, Rock
Island & Pacific Ry. Co.v. Devine, 239 U. S.52, 54; City
of Boston v. Jackson, 260 U. S.309.
A single question is presented, which arises as follows:
The plaintiffs in error, as resident taxpayers, filed a complaint in the Circuit Court challenging the validityof a
consolidated school district which had been organized by

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
261 U.S.

Opinion of the Court.

the merger of several smaller districts, and praying that
the defendants in error, as its officers, be enjoined from
further maintaining schools or erecting school buildings
therein, or issuing bonds thereof. The Supreme Court,
on an appeal from the Circuit Court, held that the ttempted organization of the consolidated district " Was
not authorized by any law then in force

.

.

.

and was

wholly futile" (43 S. Dak. 166, 176), and entered judgment remanding the cause for further proceedings in accordance with its decision. The legislature thereupon
passed a curative act legalizing and validating all proceedings relating to the organization of any consolidated
school district attempted to be made as this had been, as
of the date when such district was organized. Laws S.
Dak., Spec. Sess., 1920, c. 47. Before this curative act
went into effect the Circuit Court, in accordance with the
decision of the Supreme Court, entered judgment adjudging the invalidity of the consolidation, permanently enjoining the defendants from conducting the consolidated
district, as prayed in the complaint, and awarding costs
to the plaintiffs. At a later day of the term, after the
curative act had gone into effect, a motion by the defendants to set aside this injunction was denied. Thereafter,
on a second appeal, the Supreme Court held that the cura.tive act had validated the defective organization of the
consolidated district (45 S. Dak. 149), and entered the,
judgment now sought to be reviewed, reversing the order
of the Circiit Court granting the permanent injunction
and remanding the cause with direction to vacate so much
of its judgment as awarded such injunction; but not reversing its judgment as to costs.
The plaintiffs in error concede that the legislature, in
the general exercise of its inherent power to create and
alter the boundaries of. school districts, may create new
districts by the consolidatio. of others. Stephens v.
Jones, 24 S. Dak. 97, 100.-. And they likewise recognize
that, since the legislature -had the power to ratify that

HODGES v. SNYDER,
600

603

Opinion of the Court.

which it might have originally authorized, there- would
have been no violation of due process if the curative act
had been enacted and become effective before any adjudication had been made in the'pending litigation as to the
invalidity of the consolidated district. United States v.
Heinszen & Co., 206 U. S. 370, 386; Rafferty v. Smith,
Bell & Co., 257 U. S.226,.232; Charlotte-Harbor& Northern Ry. Co. v. Welles, 260 U. S. 8. . And see, generally as
to giving effect to acts passed pendente lite but before
the hearing, Stockdale v. Insurance Companies, 20 Wall.
323, 331; Mills v. Green, 159 U. S. 651, 656; and DuplexPrintingPress Co. v. Deering,254 U. S.443, 464.
Their sole contention is that as the curative act was not
enacted until after the Supreme Court had decided, on
the first appeal, the consolidated district was invalid,
and did not go into effect until after the Circiit Court had
entered judgment adjudging its. invalidity and enjoining
the defendants from further conducting its affairs, it deprived them, as applied by the Supreme Court, without
due process, of the private property rights which had been
vested in them under these. adjudications.
It is true that, as they contend, the private rights of
parties which have been vested by the judgment of a court
cannot be taken away by subsequent legislation, but must
be thereafter enforced by the court regardless of such,
legislation. Pennsylvania v. Wheeling Bridge Co., 18
How. 421, 429; The Clinton Bridge, 10 Wall. 454, 463;
United States v. Klein, 13 Wall. 128; 146; McCullough v.
Virqinia, 172 U. S. 102, 124 (in which the repealing act
was passed after judgment by the trial court).
This rule, however, as held in the Wheeling Bridge
Case, does not apply to a suit brought for the enforcement
of a public right, which, even after it has been established
by the judgment of the court, may be annulled by subsequent legislation and should not be thereafter enforced;
although, in so far as a private right has been incidentally

604

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

.261 U. S.

established by such judgment, as for special damages to
the plaintiff or for his costs, it may not be thus taken
away. Pennsylvania v. Wheeling Bridge Co., supra, pp.
431. 439. This case has been cited with approval in The
(JintonBridge, supra,p. 463 (likewise involving a public,
as distinguished from a private, right of action), United
States v. Klein, supra, p. 146, Stockdale v. Insurance
Companies,supra,p. 332, and Mills v. Green, supra,p. 655.
And so a judgment for the restitution of taxes collected
under the ostensible authority of a general statute will
be reversed when, after the rendition of such judgment,
a statute has been passed legalizing and ratifying such
taxation. Rafferty v. Smith, Bell & Co., supra, p. 232.
In the Wheeling Bridge Case, as in the Clinton Bridge
Case, the public right involved was that of abating an obstruction to the navigation of a river. The right involved
in the prese.t suit, of enjoining the maintenance of an
illegal school district and the issuance of its bonds, is likewise a public right shared by the plaintiffs with all other
resident *taxpayers. And while in the Wheeling Bridge
Case the bill was fied by the State, although partly in its
proprietary capacity as the owner of certain. canals and
railways (9 How. 647, 648), -the doctrine that a judgmentdeclaring a public right may be annulled by subsequent
legislation, applies with like force in the present suit, although brought by individuals primarily for their own
benefit; the right involved and adjudged, in the one case.
as in the other, being public, and not private.
The judgment of the .Supreme Court in this case
affected merely the public right involved-the plaintiffs'_
judgment for costs not being impaired,-and was clearly
in accordance with the doctrine of the Wheeling Bridge
Case. And since the question Aoes not require further
argument, the alternative motion of the defendants in
error is granted, and the judgment is
Affirmed.

