THOMAS v. KANSAS CITY SO. RY.
479

481

Syllabus.

tion or commerce-the matter was purely local-and we
were of opinion that application of the state statute, as
between the parties, would not work material prejudice
to any characteristic feature of the general maritime law
or interfere with its proper harmony or uniformity.
Here the circumstances are- very different. Not only
was the tort committed and effective on navigable waters,
but the rights and liabilities of the parties are matters
which have direct relation to navigation and commerce.
Southern Pacific Co. v. Jensen, 244 U. S. 205; Carlisle
Packing Co.v. Sandanger,259 U. S.255; State Industrial
Commission of New York v'. Nordenholt Corporation,259
U. S.263.
Affirmed.
THOMAS, SHERIFF AND COLLECTOR, ET AL. v.
KANSAS CITY SOUTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 303. Argued March 9, 12, 1923.-Decided April 9, 1923.

1. The legislature of a State may, if consistent with its constitution,
establish a drainage district, set the boundaries, and apportion the
cost by fixing the bases of assessment and taxation; and its con-

clusion that lands will be benefited cannot be assailed under the
Fourteenth Amendment unless palpably arbitrary or discriminatory. P. 483.
2. A portion of the franchise of a railroad may be included as real
estate within such a district; and, tb justify its assessment, the
benefit need not be direct, and may consist of gains to be derived
from increased traffic due to the improvement. Id.
3. But vague speculation as to future increased traffic receipts will not
justify a basis of. taxation which necessarily produces manifest inequality. P. 484.

277 Fed. 708, affirmed.

482

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

APPEAL from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
which affirmed a decree of the District Court -permanently
enjoining the appellant drainage district and state officials
from enforcing a special drainage improvement tax, levied
upon property of the appellee railroad companies.

Mr. James D. Head and Mr. Otis Wingo, with whom
Mr. Henry Moore, Jr., was on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. S. W. Moore and Mr. James B. McDonough, with
whom Mr. F. H. Moore and Mr. A. F. Smith were on the
briefs, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The Legislature of Arkansas created, by a special law,
the Little River Drainage and Levee District of Sevier
County, No. 1, a body corporate, and defined its boundaries. Act 186 of Acts of 1915, p. 747, amended by Act 79
of Acts of 1917, p. 348. This suit was brought in the federal court for the Western District of Arkansas, Texarkana Division, by two railroad companies to restrain enforcement of a tax levied in the year 1918 under that act.
The defendants below were the district, its officers, and
the sheriff and collector of Sevier County. The statute
named a board of directors; imposed upon it the duty of
constructing drainage works; empowered it to raise the
necessary money by construction notes and an issue of
bonds to the amount of $100,000; and directed it: "to
assess and levy annually a tax upon the valuation as it
shall appear each year on the assessment book of Sevier
County, Arkansas, upon all lands and . . . upon the
railroad tracks of companies in said district, as appraised
by the Board of Railroad Commissioners . . . ; not to
exceed, however, in any one year, the sum of six per cent,
of the assessed Valuation of the said property within the
district."

THOMAS v. KANSAS CITY SO. RY.
481

Opinion of the Court.

The estimated cost of the improvement was about*
$75,000. For the purpose of defraying a part of this cost
the directors levied, in the year 1918, a tax of $7,346.12,
being 6 per cent. of the assessed value of all real estate
within the district. Of this amount it levied upon the
railroads $4,194.60, being 6 per cent. of the assessed value
of their property. Upon the 12,000 acres of land, being
all the other real estate in the district, the directors laid,
in the aggregate, taxes of $3,151.52, being 6 per cent. of
its assessed value. Thus, 57 per cent. of the burden was
imposed upon the railroads and 43 per cent. upon the
owners of all the other real estate. Plaintiffs claimed that
the tax was void. After a hearing, at which much evidence was introduced, the District Court entered a decree
for a permanent injunction. Its decree was affirmed by
the Circuit Court of Appeals, on the ground that the facts
reveal an instance of discrimination so palpable and arbitrary as to amount to a,denial of equal protection of the
laws. 277 Fed. 708. The case is here on appeal.
The applicable rules of law are settled. The legislature
of a, State may, if consistent with its constitution, establish a drainage district; may set the boundaries; and may
apportion the burden by fixing the basis of assessment and
of taxation. The legislature's determination that lands
will be benefited by a public improvement .for which it
authorizes a special tax, is ordinarily conclusive. Its
action in so doing cannot be assailed under the Fourteenth
Amendment, unless it is palpably arbitrary or discriminatory. Houck v. Little River Drainage District, 239
U. S. 254, 262; Valley Farms Co; v. County of Westchester, ante, 155. A proportion of the franchise of a
railroad may, consistently' with the Federal Constitution,
be included as real estate within the district. To justify
an assessment upon property the benefit from the improvement need not be a direct one. It may, in case of a
railroad, consist of gains derived from increased traffic.

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

Branson v. Bush, 251 U. S. 182. But vague speculation
as to future increased traffic receipts will not justify a
basis of taxation which necessarily produces manifest inequality. Compare Kansas City Southern Ry. Co. v.
Road Improvement District No. 6,256 U. S. 658, 661. In
the case at bar the lower courts concurred in their findings of controverted facts. We accept these findings.
Dun v. Lumbermen's Credit Association, 209 U., S. 20.
The question for decision is whether facts, admitted and
found, establish that the tax levied upon plaintiffs violates
rights guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment.
The district is wholly rural. Little River bounds it on
the west and south. It contains about 12,000 acres of
rich land. Only one-tenth is under cultivation. The
rest is wild and untillable, because marshy or subject to
overflow. The aggregate assessed value of the 12,000
acres was in 1918 only $52,525.33. The lands were then
worth from $8 to $40 an acre. The proposed improvement would increase their value at least $250,000.00.
Along the northerly part of its western boundary the district is traversed for a distance of about two miles, by a
single-track railroad. The total length of track within
the district, including a detour line and sidings, is 3.61
miles. The railroad is owned by the Texarkana and Fort
Smith, and is operated by the Kansas City Southern, as
part of its line from Missouri to the Gulf. The railroad
property is 40.43 acres in area; and is assessed at
$69,910.00. It would derive no direct benefit from the
construction of the ditches and embankment designed to
drain and to protect the district from oveirow; because
the tracks are laid upon a fill or dump (with the exception
of one trestle) and are above flood level. The railroad
would derive some measure of indirect benefit; because
the drained land would doubtless be cultivated, and more
extensive cultivation would probably increase traffic over
the line.

THOMAS v. KANSAS CITY SO. RY.
481

Opinion of the Court.

The tax laid imposes upon the railroad, which can receive no direct or immediate benefit, a very heavy burden;
and the lands which will receive a.large direct (and possibly immediate) benefit, are required to bear only a very
small part of the burden. The market value of the 12,000
acres may increase largely before any additional land is
cultivated, or even before the improvement is made. The
railroad can derive the indirect benefit, through increased
traffic, only after the drainage of the wild lands has been
effected and the reclaimed lands are being cultivated.
The work of reclamation had not even begun. Obviously
there could not be any increase in traffic receipts during
the year 1918, in which the tax is laid. Appellants argue
that the assessed valuation of the lands would probably
be greatly raised in later years; that the assessment upon
the railroad property would probably not be raised; that
the proportion of the annual burden imposed upon the
railroad would diminish from year to year; and that, in
course of time, the aggregate of the taxes levied upon each
piece of property would be thus adjusted so as to correspond to the benefits received. This argument is relied
upon to save the scheme of apportionment. But it rests
wholly upon prophecy. The fact is that the tax levied
is grossly discriminatory. The best that can be said of
the scheme of taxation (so far as it concerns the railroad)
is that the burdens imposed will grow less, as its ability to
bear them grows greater.
Affirmed.

