PRICE CO. v. UNITED STATES.
Argument for Appellant.

'PRICE FIRE & WATER PROOFING COMPANY v.
UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 257. Argued January 22, 1923.-Decided February 19, 1923.
Expenses incurred by a manufacturer after termination of its work
for the Government during the war and after November 12, 1918,
in efforts to keep alive its organization and regain its commercial.

business, are not recoverable from the United States under the'
Dent Act, March 2, 1919, c. 94, 40 Stat. 1272. P. 183.
56 Ct. Clms. 502, affirmed.

APPEAL from a judgment of the Court of Claims in an
action to recover, under the Dent Act, the amount of,
various expenditures and liabilities incurred by the.claimant in connection with or growing out of work done for
the Government.
Mr. S. S. Ashbaugh for appellant.
The plaintiff did not "sustain or receive in common
with the community generally" these expenses; nor did
the depression of the market because of the sale of government goods "at prices below cost of production" occur
until many months after these expenses began, and until
large parts of them had been incurred. They are peculiar
to the plaintiff, and are connected directly with its ownership, use, and enjoyment of its own particular property
and business, which in itself gives a basis fQr a further
judgment for the $125,000.00. -It is brought within the
rule of United States v. Russell, 13 Wall. 623, where thi
Government was held liable for the "services rendered
and the expenses, incurred." It is also within the rule
stated in Henry v. Dubuque & PacificR. R. Co., 2 Iowa,
300, that "just compensation should be precisely commensurate with the injury sustained by having the prop-

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

erty taken; neither more nor less." Holton v. Milwaukee, 31 Wis. 27.
'The difference between the doctrine of government liability for private property taken for public use, and the
doctrine of damnun absque injuria,is clear and distinct.
The one doctrine is within the rule of the Russell Case
and the other within the rule of the Soda Lake cases
recently affirmed by this Court (HorstmannCo. v. United
States, 257 U. S. 138) where a loss was inflicted but no
taking of property was proved or found. The rights of
the plaintiff have been fixed by these decisions of the
several courts. See RailroadCommission of Wisconsin v.
Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co., 257 U. S. 563.
Mr. Alfred A. Wheat, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck was on
the brief, for the United States.
MR. JusTIcE BRANDEIS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
By the Dent Act (March 2, 1919, c. 94, 40 Stat. 1272)
the Secretary of .War was authorized to adjust and discharge, upon a fair and equitable basis, agreements, express or implied, made prior to November 12, 1918, in connection with the prosecution of the war, "when such
agreement has been performed in whole or in part, or expenditires have been made or obligations incurred upon
the faith of the same by any such person, firm, or corporation prior to November twelfth, nineteen tiundred and
eighteen, and such agreement has not been executed in
the manner prescribed by law." If an adjustment offered
by the Secretary was refused by the claimant, the Court
of Claims was given jurisdiction to award fair and just
compensation. But it was expressly provided that neither
the Secretary, nor the court, should include in the award
"prospective or possible profits on any part of the con-

PRICE CO. v. UNITED STATES.
.179

Opinion of the Court.

tract beyond the goods and supplies delivered to and acicepted by-the United States and a reasonable remuneration for expenditures and obligations or liabilities necessarily incurred in performing or preparing to perform"
the contract.
The claimant herein owned an establishment for fireproofing and waterproofing cloth. In 1917, an arrangement was made by which, after January 1, 1918, the plant,
with increased facilities, was to be operated, by the claimant, wholly on cloth to be delivered to it, from time to
time, by the Government. Payment was to be made at
an agreed rate per yard. No agreement was executed in
the manner provided by law. Thereafter many orders for
finishing goods were given. There were serious delays
and irregularities on the part of the Government both in
delivering the goods for-finishing and in removing them
from the premises after .the work had been done; and
upon the signing of the Armistice, all unfinished orders
Were cancelled. For all goods finished the claimant was
paid, 'at the agree.d price. But by the action of the Government prior to November 12, 1918, and by its cancellation of the orders, it was subjected to large and unanticipMted expenses. A claim for these expenses and the
losses incurred was. duly piesented to the Secretary of
War.' -Anadjustment offered by him was rejected; and
thereupon -claimant brought this suit in the Court of
Claims for $641,313.64. The petition set forth ten distinct causes of action. On nine of these the court made
the allowances set forth in the margin," which aggregate
$47,700.08; a', 4udgment was entered below for this
Storage and hauling charges on untreated' gray
goods: On this cause of action the Court of Claims
awarded the plaintiff the sum of ................ $2,147.05
(2) Storage charges on'treated goods after notice of completion: On this cause of action the Court of

1(1)

Claims awarded the plaintiff the sum of .........

544.60

182

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U.S.

amount, The tenth cause of action, on which $590,000
was claimed, was for loss to commercial business. On this
no allowance was made. A motion for a new trial asked
for by claimant (on what ground does not appear) was
overruled. Whether the court erred in disallowing the
claim on the tenth cause of action is the sole question for
decision on this appeal.
The facts found by the court bearing especially on this
cause of action were these:
"When in the latter part of 1917 this arrangement was
made the plaintiff's plant, its processes, business, and good
will as a going concern were valuable, but what the value
thereof was s not shown to the satisfaction of the court on
the present record.
(3) Alterations and additions to the plant for storage
purposes, including restoration: On this cause of
action the Court of Claims awarded the plaintiff
the sum of .................................. $11,249.16
(4) Extra protection demanded by the defendants: On
this cause of action the Court of Claims awarded
the plaintiff the sum of ........................
2,953.11
(5) Wages paid unemployed labor from December 29,.
1917, to March 23, 1918: On this cause of action
the Court of Claims awarded the plaintiff the
sum of ....................................... 3,013.52
(6) Allowance on chemicals and materials left over after
suspension of work: On this cause of action the
Court of Claims awarded the plaintiff the sum of.
3,877.87
(7) Increased plant facilities: On this cause of action the
Court of Claims awarded the plaintiff the sum of. 20,000.00
(8) Deductions made by defendants because of increased
yardage resulting from treatment and for alleged
loss in shipment: On this cause of action the Court
of Claims awarded the plaintiff the sum of .......
954.09
(9) Insurance premiums- paid by plaintiff in excess of
that provided for: On this cause of action the
Court of Claims awarded the plaintiff the sum of.
2,960.68
Total amount awarded by Court ofClaims... $47,700.08

PRICE CO. v. UNITED STATES.
179

183

Opinion of the Court.

"When Government work ceased in November, 1918,
the plaintiff had no other business upon which it could
continue the operation of its plant and it became idle.
The cessation of hostilities left the Government with large
quantities of goods on hand of the kind produced by the
plaintiff company and by other concerns producing for the
Government the same general character of goods. These
goods were- sold by the Government at different times in
large lots at iublic auction and generally at prices below
cost of production, and the sale of these goods by the Government supplied to a very considerable extent the demands of the trade for this class of goods. In an effort to
reestablish its business and preserve the value attaching
to its plant as an operating concern and in the belief that
if normal conditions should be restored it could again do
a-profitable business, it has expended considerable sums
of money, by operating at a loss, in keeping its business
alive and its organization existent, and by reason of such
efforts since the cessation of Government work it has sustained an operating loss of $125,000. It has not succeeded
in reestablishing its business on a profitable basis, and its
plant and business are now worth much less thbn before
it took on Government work and devoted. its facilities
thereto."
Claimant contends here that it should be allowed to
recover this $125,000 as expenses incurred in efforts to
keep alive its business and organization to February,
1921, when the testimony was taken. The Dent Act does
not permit any recovery on this ground. These were not
"expenditures and obligations or liabilities necessarily
incurred in performing or preparing to perform" the contract. Nor were they made or incurred prior t - November 12, 1918. There was no breach of contract or wrongful act on .the part of the United States in this connection. Nor was there a taking of prolperty for which compensation can be made. It is urged, here that the full

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

261 U. S.

amount should be allowed to reimburse claimant for expenditures incurred at- the plant in the early months of
1918, when it was idle because of the Government's delay
in supplying goods for finishing. Some allowance"for expenses incurred during that period was allowed under
the fifth cause of action and is included in the $47,700.08
for which judgment was entered. For awarding more
there is no basis in the findings. ,No request for additional findings appears to have been made below. Nor
was leave sought there, or here, to reopen the case so that

additional evidence could be introduced;
made are conclusive.'

THE NEW EN -LAND

The findings
Affirmed..

]5IVISIONS CASE.2

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 646. Argued January 9, 10, 1923.-Decided February 19, 1923.
1. Section 418 of the Transportation Act, 1920, authorizes the
Interstate Commerce Commission, when establishing divisions of
joint rates, to -consider not only what is- just, reasonable and
equitable as between all the carriers participating, but also. the
financial needs of particular carriers which should be supplied, in
the public interest, in order to maintain them in effective operation
as pan of an adequate transportation system. P. 189.
2. Where joint rates among a group of carriers were increased by
the Commission with special reference to the financial necessities
of a part of them, a division, subsequently ordered, which gave the
needy carriers a relatively greater share, to meet those necessities,
but left the share of the others adequate to avoid a confiscatory
'There is nothing in Roxford Knitting Co. v. Moore & Tierney,
265 Fed. 177, or in United States v. Russell, 13 Wall. 623, which were
relied upon by claimant, that lends support to its contention.
2 The docket title of this case is:- Akron, Canton*& Youngstown
Railway Company v. United States, Interstate Commerce Commisueon, Boston & Maine Railroad, et al.

