FED. TRADE COMM. v. SINCLAIR CO.

463

Syllabus.

457

act of the Director General done in the course of the federal control. No liability could attach to the company
for that act consistently with the federal statute and order
just cited. Whether the particular liability defined in the.
state statute before quoted was of such a nature that it
could be applied to the Director General we need not consider, for there was no appeal from the judgment of the
circuit court in his favor. See Missouri Pacific R. R. Co.
v. Ault, pp. 563, et seq.; Norfolk-Southern R. R. Co. v.,
Owens, 256 U. S.565:
Judgment reversed.

FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION v. SINCLAIR
REFINING COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION v. STANDARD
OIL COMPANY (NEW JERSEY).
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION v. GULF REFINING COMPANY.
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION v. MALONEY OIL
& MANUFACTURING COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

Nos. 213, 637, 638, 639. Argued March 8, 9, 1923.-Decided April 9,
1923.

1. The practice, upon the part of a manufacturer of gasoline, of
leasing underground tanks with pumps to retail dealers, at nominal rentals and upon condition that the equipment shall be used
only with gasoline supplied by the lessor, is not in violation of the
Clayton Act.

P. 473.

464

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

2. Nor is it unfair competition, within the Federal Trade Commission Act, as regards either the trade in gasoline or the trade in such
storage and pumping equipment. P. 474.
3. The Federal Trade Commission has no general authority to compel competitors to a common level, to interfere with ordinary business methods, or to restrict competition to. arbitrary standards.
P. 475.
4. The great purpose of both of the above statutes was to advance
the public interest by securing fair opportunity for the play of
contending forces engendered by an honest"desire for gain; and to
this end it is essential that those who adventure their-time, skill
and capital should have large freedom of action in the conduct
of their own affairs. P. 476.
276 Fed. 686; 282 Fed. 81, affirmed.
CERTIORARI to four judgments of Circuit Courts of Ap-

peals setting aside as many orders, of the Federal Trade
Commission.
Mr. Adrien F. BuLsick and Mr. Eugene W. Burr, with
whom Mr. -SolicitorGeneral Beck and Mr. W. H. FuUer
were on the briefs, for petitioner.
Mr. Roy T. Osborm, with whom Mr. Edw. H. Chandler
and Mr. W. Ray Allen were on the brief, for respondent
in No. 213.
Mr. Charles D, Chamberlin, with whom Mr. Hubert
B. Fuller was on the brief, for respondent in No. 639.
Mr. R. L. Batts, with whom Mr. W. J. Guthrie was on
the brief, for respondent in No. 638.
Mr. Chester 0. Siwain and Mr. James H. Hayes, for
respondent in No. 637, submitted.
MR. JUSTICE McREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the

Court.I
In separate proceedings against thirty or more refiners
alid wholesalers, the Federal Trade Commission condemned and ordered them to abandon the practice of leas-

FED.TRADE COMM. v. SINCLAIR'CO.
463

465

Opinion of the Court.

big underground tanks with pumps to retail dealers at
nominal prices and upon condition that the equipment
should be used only with gasoline supplied by the lessor.
Four of these orders were held invalid by the circuit, courts
of appeals for the third and seventh circuits in the above
entitled causes-276 Fed. 686; 282 Fed. 81; and like ones
have been set aside by the circuit courts of appeals for the
second and sixth circuits-Standard Oil- Co. v. Federal
Trade Commission, 273 Fed. 478; Canfield Oil Co.'v. Federal Trade Commission, 274 Fed. 571. The proceedings,
essential facts and points of law disclosed by the four records now before isare so similar that it will suffice to consider No. 213, as typical of all.
July 18, 1919, the Commission issued a complaint
charging that respbident, Sinclair Refining Company, was
purchasing and selling refined oil and gasoline and leasing
and loaning storage tanks and pumps as part of interstate
commerce in competition with numerous other concerns
similarly engaged; and that it was violating both the Federal Trade Commission Act, 38 Stat. 717, and the Clayton
Act, 38 Stat. 730.
The particular facts relied on to show violation of the
Federal Trade Commission Act are thus alleged"Paragraph Three. That respondent in the conduct of
its business, as aforesaid, with the effect of stifling and
suppressiig. competition in the sale, of the aforesaid products and in the sale, leasing, or loaning of the aforesaid devices and other equipments for storing and handling the
same, and with the effect of injuring competitors who sell
such products and devices, has within the four years last
past sold, leased, or loaned and now sells, leases, or loans
the said devices and their equipment for prices or considerations which do not represent reasonable returns on the
investments in such devices and their equipments; that
many such sales, leases, or loans of the aforesaid devices
are made at prices below the cost of producing and vend-

466

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

ing the same; that many of such contracts for the lease or
loan of such devices and their equipments provide or are
entered into with the understanding that the lessee or
borrower shall not place in such devices, or use in connection with such devices and their equipments, any refined oil or gasoline of a competitor; that only a small
proportion of the dealers in gasoline and refined oil under
such agreements and understandings deal also in similar
products of respondent's competitors and that only a
small proportion of such dealers require or use more than
a single pump outfit in the conduct of their said business;
tht there are numerous competitors in the sale of such
products who are unable to enter into such lease agreements or understandings because of the large amount of
investment required to carry out such lease agreements
as a competitive method of selling refined oil and gasolie; that there are numerous other competitors of respondent engaged in the manufacture and sale of devices and their equipments who do not deal in refined oil
and gasoline, and therefore do not sell or lease said devices
and their. equipments for a nominal consideration on a
condition or understanding that their products only are
to be used therein; that the said numerous competitors
who were unable to enter into such lease agreements or
understandings, as aforesaid, have lost numerous customers in the sale of refined oil and gasoline to respondent
b1ecause of the business practices of respondent hereinbefore set forth. 'That the said numerous other competitors
of respondent who manufacture and sell said devices.and
their equipments, but do not, sell refined oil and gasoline,
as aforesaid, have* lost numerous customers and pros-'
pective customers for the purchase of their devices and
equipments because -of the said business practices of respondent, as hereinbefore set forth."
To'show violation of the Clayton Act the, complaint
alleged-.

FED. TRADE COMM. v. SINCLAIR CO.
463

467

Opinion of the Court.

"Paragraph Three. That the respondent, for four years
last past, in the conduct of its business as aforesaid, has
leased and made contracts for the lease and is nbw leasing
and making contracts f6r the lease of said devices and
their equipments to be used within the United States, and
has fixed and is now fixing the price charged therefor on
the condition, agreement, or understanding that the lessees thereof shall not purchase or deal in the products qf
a competitor or competitors of-respondent; and that the
effect of such leases or contracts for lease, and conditions,
agreements, or understandings, may be and is to substantially lessen competition and tend to create a monopoly
in the territories and localities .where such contracts are
operative."
Respondent answered and evidence was taken. In
October, 1919, the Commission announced its report, findings and conclusions, the substance of which follows.
"1. That the respondent is a corporation organized,
existing, and doing business under and by virtue of the
laws of the State of Maine, with its principal business
office located at the City of .Chicago, in the State of Illinois, and is now and has been engaged in the business of
purchasing and selling refined oil and gasoline, hereinafter referred to as products, and is largely engaged in
refining crude petroleum, and that it is now and has been
since January 25, 1917, in connection with the aforementioned business, engaged in the leasing and loaning, but
not in the manufacture, of oil pumps, storage tanks, and
containers and their equipment, hereinafter referred to
as devices, in various States of the United States, but not
in the District of Columbia, in competition with numerous other persons, firms, corporations, and copartnerships
similarly engaged; that prior to the 25th day of January,
1917, the corporate name of respondent was the Cudahy
Refining Company.
"2. That the respondent, in the conduct of its business,
as aforesaid, and as hereinafter more particularly de-

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U.S.

scribed, extensively refines petroleum and its products
and purchases refined oil and gasoline, all hereinafter
referred to as 'products,' and also purchases oil pumps,
storage tanks or containers, hereinafter referred to as
'devices,' the said devices being used to contain said products, the said products and devices then being handled
and stored in the various States of the United States
and being transported in interstate commerce; that the
aforesaid products are sold and the aforesaid devices are
leased or loaned by respondent to various persons, firms,
corporations, and copartnerships; that in the conduct of
its business of purchasing and selling such products and
selling, leasing or loaning such devices, the, same are constantly moved from one State to another by respondent
and there is Conducted by respondent a constant current
of trade in such products and devices between various
States of the United States; that there are numerous competitors of respondent, who, in the conduct of their business in competition with respondent, purchase similar
products and purchase and manufacture similar devices,
the said devices being used to contain said products, the
said products and devices then being handled and stored
in the various States of the United States and transported
in interstate commerce; that the aforesaid products are
sold and the aforesaid devices sold, leased, or loaned by
such competitors of respondent to various persons, firms,
corporations, and copartnerships, that in the conduct of
their business, as aforesaid, competitors of respondent
constantly move such products and devices from one State
to another and there- is conducted by. said competitors a
constant current of trade in such products and devices
between the various States of the United States; that
respondent has conducted its said business in a similar
manner to that above described since January 25, 1917.
"13. That respondent now leases -and loans and has for
'the period of its business existence leased and loaned

FED. TRADE COMM. v. SINCLAIR CO.
463

469

Opinion of the Court.

devices and equipment for storing and handling its products, and that the monetary considerations received by
respondent do not represent reasonable returns upon the

investment in such devices and equipment; and also that
such leases and loans of said devices and equipment are
made for monetary considerations below the cost .of purchasing and vending the same when the business of leas-

ing or loaning said devices and equipment and the returns
received thereon are considered separate and apart froxii
the general business and sales policy of the respondent;
that respondent's form of contract with the users of such

deVices and equipment provides in substance that the devices and equipment shall be used for the sole-purpose of
storing and handling gasoline supplied by respondent,
and that the uniform contract used by respondent for
leasing such devices and equipment is in form, tenor, and
substance as follows." [The ordina;ry form of contract
(printed in the margin 1) is here set out. It recites the
1

Equipment Contract.

This agreement, made and entered into this ...... day of .........
19 ....
, between Sinclair Refining Company of ...................
party of the first part, and .............. ,of the City of ..........
State of .......... , party of the second part, witnesseth:
Whereas, party of the second part is now being supplied with
gasoline by the party of the first part aid desires to install on his
premises situated at ..............the following equipment for
the better storing and handling of such gasoline: ............
Now, therefore, in consideration of the premises and of the sum of
one dollar by the party of the second part to the party of the first
part (the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged), the above named
parties do hereby agree as follows:
1. The above described equipment shall be used by the party of the
second part for the sole purpose of storing and handling the gasoline
supplied by the party of the first part.
2. The party of the second part agrees, at his own cost, to maintain said equipment in good condition and repair so long as he shall
continue to -use the same.
3. The party of the second part agrees that he will not encumber
or remove said equipment, or do or suffer to be done anything

470

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

customer's desire to install certain equipment and, among
other things, provides that this shall be used only for
storing and handling gasoline supplied by the lessor; that
whereby said equipment or any part thereof may be seized, taken
on execution, attached, destroyed or injured, or by which the title of
the party of the first part thereto may in any way be altered, destroyed or prejudiced.
4. In the event party of the second part should at any time use
said equipment for any other purpose than the storing and handling
of gasoline supplied by the party of the first part, or should cease
days to handle gasoline secured ffom the party of the
for .......
first part the right or license of the party of the second part to said
equipment shall at once terminate, and thereupon the party of the
first part shall have the right to enter upon said premises and
remove said equipment and every part thereof.
5. The party of the second part shall indemnify and save harmless the party of the first part to and from any liability for loss,
damage, injury or other casualty to persons or property caused or
occasioned by any leakage, fire or explosion of gasoline stored in
said tank or drawn through said pump.
6. This agreement shall terminate forthwith upon the sale or other
disposition of said premises by party of the second part, and in any
event upon the expiration of ........ months from the date hereof;
and in the event that by mutual consent said equipment remains in
the possession of the party of the second part at the expiration of said
period, it is agreed that the same shall be used by party of the
second part subject to all of the terms and conditions of this agreement, and such may be terminated at any time after the expiration
of ............ months from the date hereof by the party of the first
part giving ten days' notice to that effect. Upon the termination of
this license by whatever means effected, the party of the first part
shall have the right to enter upon said premises and remove the said
equipment and each and every part thereof; provided, however, that
the party of the second part shall have the right and option at such
time to purchase said equipment by paying therefor the sum of .....
This contract is executed in triplicate, and it is agreed that the
contract held by the party of the first part is to be considered the
original and to be the binding agreement in case the duplicate varies
from it in any particular.
In witness whereof, the parties hereto have caused this agreement
to be executed the day and-year first above written.

FED. TRADE COMM. v. SINCLAIR CO.
463

471

Opinion of the Court.

if put to any other use the lessee's right therein shall
terminate; and that upon termination of the lease, by
whatever means effected, the lessee may purchase the
equipment for a specific sum.]
"4. That the contracts mentioned in the preceding
paragraph also provide that such equipments shall be
used by the lessee only for the purpose of holding and
storing the respondent's petroleum products; that a smal
proportion of such lessees handle similar products of respondent's competitors; and that only a small proportion
of such lessees as handle similar products of respondent's
competitors require or use more than a single pump outfit
in the conduct of their said business; that the practice of
leasing such devices requires a large capital investment;
that many competitors of respondent do not possess sufficient capital and are not able to purchase and lease devices as respondent does as Aforesaid, partly by reason of
which such competitors have lost numerous customers to
respondent; that the effect of the practice of leasing by
contract such equipments, where such contracts contain
the said provision restricting the use of the same to the
storage and handling of respondent's products as aforesaid, may be to substantially lessen competition and tend
to create for the respondent a monoply in the business of
selling petroleum products.
" Conclusions. That the methods of competition and
the business practices set forth in the foregoing findings
as to the facts are, under the circumstances set forth
herein, unfair methods of competition, in interstate commerce, in violation of the provisions of section 5 of an act
of Congress, approved September 26, 1914, entitled 'An
act to create a Federal Trade Commission, to define its
powers and duties, and for other purposes,' and are in violation of section 3 of an act of Congress, approved Octo-ber 15, 1914, entitled 'An act to supplement existing laws
against unlawful
restraints and monopolies, and for other
'
purposes.' 1

472

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

Thereupon the Commission ordered that respondent
cease and desist from"1. Directly or indirectly leasing .pumps or tanks or
both and their equipments for storing and handling petroleum products in the furtherance of its petroleum business, at ,a rental which will not yield to it a, reasonable
profit on the cost of the same after making due allowance
for depreciation and other items usually considered when
leasing property for the purpose of obtaining a reasonable
profit therefrom, and from doing any matter or thing
which would have the same unlawful effect as that resulting from the practice herein prohibited and by reason
of which this order is made.
"2. Entering into contracts or agreements with dealers
of its petroleum products or from continuing to operate
under any contract or agreement already entered into
whereby such dealers agree or have an understanding that
as a consideration for the leasing to them of such pumls
and tanks and their equipments the same shall be used
only for storing or handling the products of respondent,
and from doing anything having the same unlawful effect
as that resulting from the practice herein prohibited and
by reason of which this order is made."
The Clayton Act provides"Sic. 3. That it shall be unlawful ;for any person engaged in commerce; in the course of such commerce, to
lease or make a sale or contract for sale of goods, wares,
merchandise, machinery, supplies or other commodities,
whether patented or unpatented, for use, consumption
or resale within the United States or any territory thereof
or the District of Columbia or any insular possession or
other place under the jurisdiction of the United States, or
fix a price charged therefor, or discount from, or rebate
upon, such price, on the condition, agreement or understanding that the lessee or purchaser thereof shall not use
or deal in the goods, wares, merchandise, machinery, sup-

FED. TRADE COMM. v. SINCLAIR CO.
463

473

Opinion of the Court.

plies or other commodities of a competitor or competitors
of the lessor or seller, where the effect of such lease,
sale, or contract for sale or such condition, agreement or
understanding may be to substantially lessen competition or tend to create a monopoly in any line of commerce."
Respondent's written contract does not undertake to
limit the lessee's right to use or deal in the goods of a
competitor of the lessor, but leaves him free to follow his
own judgment. It is not properly described by the complaint and is not within the letter of the Clayton Act.
But counsel for the Commission insist that inasmuch as
lessees generally--except garage men in the larger
places-will not encumber themselves with more than one
equipment, the practical effect of the restrictive covenant
is to confine most dealers to the products of their lessors;
and we are asked to hold that, read in the light of these
facts, the contract falls within the condemnation of the
statute. StandardFashion Co. v. Magrane-HoustonCo.,
258 U. S. 346; and United Shoe Machinery Corporationv
United States, 258 U. S. 451, are relied upon.
In the Standard Fashion Co. Case the purchaser expressly agreed not to sell or -permit sale of any other make
of patterns on its premises. It had a retail store in Boston
and, sales elsewhere were not within contemplation of the
parties. This Court construed the contract as embodying an undertaking not to sell other patterns. In United
Shoe Machinery Corporation v. United States, when
speaking of certain "tying" restrictions, this Court
said"While the clauses enjoined do not contain specific
agreements not to use the machinery of a competitor of
the lessor, the practical effect of these drastic provisions
is to prevent such use. We can entertain no doubt that
such provisions as were enjoined are embraced in the
broad terms of the Clayton Act which cover all condi-.

474

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U.S.

tions, agreements or understandings of this nature. That
such restrictive and tying agreements must necessarily
lessen competition and tend to monopoly is, we believe,
equally apparent. When it is considered that the United
Company occupies a dominating position in supplying
shoe machinery of the classes involved, these covenants
signed by the lessee and binding upon him effectually
prevent him from acquiring the machinery of a competitor of the lessor except at the risk of forfeiting the
right to use the machines furnished by the United Company which may be absolutely essential to the prosecution
and success of his business. This system of 'tying' restrictions is quite as effective as express covenants could
be and practically compels the use of the machinery of
the lessor except upon risks which manufacturers will not
willingly incur."
There is no covenant in the present contract which
obligates the lessee not to sell thegoods of another; and
its language cannot be so construed. Neither the findings
,nor the evidence show circumstances similar to those surrounding the "tying" covenants of the Shoe Machinery
Company. Many competitors seek to sell excellent
brands of gasoline and no one of them is essential to the
retail business. The lessee is free to buy wherever he
chooses; he may freely accept.and use as many pumps
as he wishes and may 'discontinue any or all of them. He
may carry on business as his judgment dictates and his
means permit, save only that he cannot use the lessor's
equipment for dispensing another's brand. By investing
a comparatively small sum, he can buy an outfit and use
it without hindrance. He can have respondents gasoline,
with the pump or without the pump, and many competitors seek to supply his needs.
The cases relied upon are not controlling.
Is the challenged practice an unfair method of competition within the meaning of ยง 5 of the Federal Trade

FED. TRADE COMM. v. SINCLAIR CO.
463

475

Opinion of the Court.

Commission Act? 1 Reviewing the circumstances, four
circuit courts of appeals have answered, no. And we can
find no sufficient reason for a contrary conclusion. Certainly the practice is not opposed to. good morals because
characterized by deception, bad faith, fraud or oppression.
Federal Trade Commission v. Gratz, 253 U. S. 421, 427.
It has been openly adopted by many competing concerns.
Some dealers regard it as the best practical method of preserving the integrity of their brands and securing wide
distribution. Some think it is undesirable. The devices
are not expensive-300 to $500--can be purchased
readily of makers and, while convenient, they are not
essential. The contract; open and fair upon its face, provides an unconstrained recipient with free receptacle and
pump for storing, dispensing, advertising and protecting
the lessors brand. The stuff is highly inflammable and
the method of handling it is important to the refiner. He
is also vitally interested in putting his brand within easy
reach- of consumers with ample assurance of its genuineness. No purpose or power to acquire unlawful monopoly
has been disclosed, and the record does not show that the
probable effect of the practice will be unduly to lessen
competition. Upon the contrary, it appears to have promoted the public convenience by inducing many small
dealers to enter the business and put gasoline on sale at
the
crossroads.
. The
powers of the Commission are limited by
the statutes. It has no general authority to compel competitors
to a common level, to interfere with ordinary business
methods or to prescribe arbitrary standards for those en'Sec. 5. That 'unfair methods of competitidn in commerce are
hereby declared unlawful.
The commission is hereby empowered and directed to prevent
persons, partnerships, or corporations, except banks, and common
carriers subject to the Acts to regulate commerce, from using unfair
methods of competition in commerce.

476

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

261 U. S.

gaged in the conflict for advantage called competition.
The great purpose of both statutes was to advance the
public interest by securing fair opportunity for the play
of the contending forces ordinarily engendered by an honest desire for gain. And to this end it is essential that
those who adventure their time, skill and capital should
have large freedom of action in the conduct of their own

affairs.
The suggestion that the assailed practice is unfair because of its effect upon the sale of pumps by their makers
is sterile and requires no serious discussion.
The judgments below must be
Affirmed.

HARTFORD LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
DOUDS ET AL.,- EXECUTORS OF DOUDS.

v.

HARTFORD LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY v.
LANGDALE.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OHIO.

Nos. 265 and 271.

Argued March 7, 1923.-Decided April 9, 1923.

1. The lack of power in a state court to interfere in the management of an insurance company of another State or to control the
discretion of its officers, does not deprive it of jurisdiction to render a pecuniary judgment, in an action by an insured to recover
amounts collected through assessments exceeding the maxima specified in the contract of insurance. P. 478.
So held where the company appeared and contested the jurisdiction,
upon the ground that the proceedings involved its internal affairs
and the validity of its action relative to its Safety Fund Department, over which matters the courts of its domicile had exclusive
jurisdiction, and that the enforcement of the judgment would deprive it of property without due process of law. Hartford Life
Ins. Co.v. Ibs, 237 U. S. 662, distinguished.
13 Ohio St. 398, 433, affirmed.

