OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U.S.

reproduce it. There was evidence disclosing the size of
the canal, and its suitability for use, together with the
condition of the property. It cannot be said the verdict
for $65,000 is without support. Erie R. R. Co. v. Winter,
143 U. S. 60, 75.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
affirmed.
PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK EX REL.
DOYLE ET AL. v. ATWELL, ACTING CHIEF OF
POLICE OF THE CITY OF MOUNT VERNON,
ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK.

No. 306. Submitted March 12, 1923.-Decided April 9, 1923.
This Court is without jurisdiction to review a judgment of a state
court based not only upon a ground involving a federal question, but
also upon an independent ground of state procedure involving no
federal question and broad enough to sustain the judgment. P. 592.
Writ of error to review 197 App. Div. 225; 232 N. Y. 96, dismissed.
ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of New
York, entered on mandate from the Court of Appeals, dismissing petitions for habeas corpus.

Mr. Arthur Garfield Hays for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Frederick E. Weeks for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE SANFORD

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The record presents a preliminary question as to our
jurisdiction under the writ of error.
The relators were arrested by the police of the City of
Mt. Vernon, N. Y., while holding a street meeting, on the
charge of violating an ordinance which prohibited, under

DOYLE' v. -ATWELi;.
590

Opinion of the Court.

penalty of fine, the gathering or assembling of persons or
the holding of public meetings upon the public streets of
the city, without special permit of 'the mayor. Before
trial the relators obtained writs of habeas corpus from
the Supreme Court of the State, -at Special Term; which,,
being heard together, resulted in an order sustaining the
writs and discharging the relators. The Appellate Division of the Supreme Court, on appeal, reversed this
order and dismissed the writs [197 App. .Div. 225]; and
the Court of Appeals of the State, on a further appeal,
affirmed the order of the Appelate Division [232 N. Y.
96,] and remitted the record and proceedings to the
Supreme Court to be proceeded upon according to law.
Thereafter this writ of error was granted by the Chief
Judge of the Court of Appeals to review the judgment of
that court.
It is urged, in substance, that the Court of Appeals
denied the contention of the relators that the ordinance,
both by its provisions and through the alleged discriminatory manner in which it was enforced, deprived them of
their rights of freedom of speech and assembly in violation
of the Fourteenth Amendment. The Court of Appeals,
however, held not oily that the ordinance was a valid. and
constitutional exercise of the police power, but also that
the writ of habeas corpus was not, under the state practice, the proper method of contesting its validity. In
the opinion of that cburt, after passing upon the constitutional question, it was said: "A writ of habeas corpus
cannot take the place of (or)" perform the functions of
an appeal from a judgment of conviction.. The court
before which a person is brdught under such writ simply
inquires whether the court rendering the judgment had
jurisdiction to do so. If that fact appears, and the mandate under which the defendant is held be regular upon
its face, the writ must be dismissed. (,People ex rel.
Hubert v. Kaiser, 206 N. Y. 46.) The magistrate before

592

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

261 U. S.

whom the relators were taken had jurisdiction to try them
for a violation of the ordinance in question, and they are
now legally in custody. The Appellate Division, therefore, properly held that the order of the Special Term was
erroneous, reversed the same, dismissed the Wrrits and
remanded the relators."
It is settled law, that where the record discloses that
the judgment of a state court was based, not alone upon
a ground in~Volving a federal question, but also upon
another and independent ground, broad enough to maintain the judgment, this Court will not take jurisdiction
to review such judgment and will dismiss a writ of error
brought for that purpose. Eustis v. Bolles, 150 U. S. 361,
366; Dibble v. Bellingham Bay Land Co., 163- U. S. 63,
69; Allen v. Arguimbau, 198 U. S. 149;" 155; Adams v.
Russell, 229 U. S. 353; 358; Cuyahoga River Power Co. v.
NorthernRealty Co., 244 U. S. 300, 304.
Hence, as the decision of the Court of Appeals as to the
effect of the writs of habeas corpus was broad enough to
maintain the judgment, independently of its decision as
to the constitutional question, the wtit of error is
Dismissed.
BALTIMORE & OHIO RAILROAD COMPANY v.
UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 305. Argued March 12, 1923.-Decided April 9, 1923.
1. The Dent Act, c. 94, 40 Stat. 1272, was intended to remedy irregularities and-informalities in the mode of entering into the agreements to which it relates; not to enlarge the authority of the agents
by whom they were made. P. 596.
2. The "implied agreement" contemplated by this act is not an
agreement "implied- in law," or quqsi contract, but an agreement
"implied in fact," founded on a meeting of minds inferred, as a
'fact, from conduct of the parties in the light of surrounding circumstances. P. 597.

