LAYNE &c. CO. v. WESTERN WELL WORKS. 387
385

Syllabus.

tial to an.award in plaintiff's favor under the provisions
of the Dent Act.' No express agreement is alleged. And
manifestly the mere fact that, on the urgent insistence
of the officers of the Department that the construction
of the railroad be hastened so as to handle construction
materials for the Depot and other freight (necessarily
yielding revenue to the railroad), the company, on its
own determination, substituted the cost plan of construction -for the unit-price plan, without any notice to the
Department of its intention so to do or of the increased
expenses that would result, does not, in the a]bsence of
any intimation that it would look to the United States
for reimbursement of such increased expenses or of any
suggestion by the Department that such reimbursement
would be made, afford any substantial basis upon which
an agreement for the payment of such expenses can be
implied.
The judgment of the Court of Claims dismissing the
petition is accordingly
"
Affirmed.
LAYNE & BOWLER CORPORATION v. WESTERN
WELL WORKS, INC., ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE.
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 278. -Argued March 5, 1923.-Decided April. 9, 1923.
A writ of certiorari, issued to

settle a'supposed conflict of decision
between two circuit courts of appeals concerning the validity
and scope of a patent, will be dismissed,. as improvidently granted,
when later examination proves that such conflict did not exist.
P. 392.
Writ of certiorari to revie* 276' Fed. 465, dismissed.

CERTIORARI:+O review a decree of the Circuit Court of
Appeals reversing a decree of the District Court which
enjoined the respondents here from acts found to be in-

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U.S.

fringements of petitioner's patent and directed an accounting. The Court of Appeals found no infringement
and for that reason ordered that the bill be dismissed.
Mr. Frederick S. Lyon, with whom Mr. William K.
White and Mr. Leonard S. Lyon were on the briefs, for
petitioner.
Mr. Chas. E. Townsend, with whom Mr. Frederic D.
McKenney and Mr. Win. A. Loftus were on the briefs,
for respondents.
Mr. David P. Wolhaupter,Mr. Raymond Ives Blakeslee
and Mr. Charles C. Montgomery, by leave of court, filed
a brief as amici curiae.
MP. CHIEF JusTcE Tir delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is an ordinary patent case. There was no reason'
for granting the application for a writ of certiorari except
upon the ground that the Circuit Courts of Appeals for
the Fifth and the Ninth Circuits had differed in respect to
the validity and scope of the patent and that uniformity
required a decision from this Court. The arguments and
the briefs have aroused further inquiry in the minds of
the Court as to whether there was in fact any conflict between the decisions of the two circuit courts of appeals,
and whether the writ of certiorari was not improvidently
granted.
The Layne patent, now owned by the Layne & Bowler
Corporation, the petitioner, was for apparatus for drawing water from deep wells, driven or artesian, and especially for adjusting a pump in them. In such wells, it
is essential that~the adjustment, the alignment and the
lubrication should be effected from the top because the
bore of the well is so small that the operator can not
descend to the pump. The Layne patent covered many

LAYNE &c. CO. v. WESTERN WELL WORKS. 389
387

Opinion of the Court.

different devices for assembling the various parts at th9
top so that they could be thrust down the well hole and
be'adjusted in place at the bottom, so that the shaft of
the rotary pump should be held in proper alignment as
it rotated, so that it should not be clogged with sand and
water as the pumping went on, and so that the shaft and
the bearings in which it moved, placed at intervals from
top to bottom, should be lubricated. To effect these objects the inventor used a casing or cylinder surrounding
the shaft, divided them both into sections, united one sec"tion to another by a sleeve or screw thread and in these
sections pushed the apparatus down the well hole. There
was a bearing at each end of each section of the casing in
which the shaft was to revolve. Layne assembled with
this shaft and casing, wedges and spiders to'hold the two
in place against the sides of the well hole. The rotary
pump .was held suspended in alignment by the weight
of the casing and was closed from the casing by a packed
bushing in which the shaft reyolved and which prevented
water and sand and other detritus from clogging the shaft
and its bearings. The water from the pump was carried
to the top by a separate pipe. The lubrication was effected by pouring the oil in at the top of the casing, and
allowing it to leak through each bearing to the bottom of
the casing whence it was drawn at intervals out of the
casing by forcing air through an air vent at the top of the
casing. The pump with the rotary shaft was old, the use
of sections was old generally though it does not seem to
have been applied in this particular field before, and the
closed casing or cylinder surrounding the shaft was old.
In a prior patent to Crannell for a pump in wells large
enough to permit a man to go to the bottom, a rotary
shaft with a cylindrical casing closed against the pump is
shown.
In practice, Layne did not use packing and bushing but
reliOd on a long sleeve to keep water and sand out of the

390

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

casing. Nor did he ever use the wedges and spiders for
alignment.
The three claims sued on in this case were Nos. 9, 13
and 20, as follows:
9. In a well mechanism, the combination with a pump
casing of a rotary pump of a jointed pump shaft and a
closed casing surrounding the pump shaft from the pump
to the top of the well.
13. The combination with a pump and its actuating
shaft of a sectional casing therefor, provided at each end
of each section with a fixed block with bearings for the
shaft, the casing being closed at the top and provided with
an air vent.
20. The combination of a well casing, a rotary pump
therein, and a line shaft for the pump entirely closed off
from the water in the well.
In 1912, in an infringement suit the validity of this
patent and of claim No. 13 was considered by the Circuit
Court of Appeals of the Fifth Circuit and sustained. Infringement by defendant of that claim was found and a
decree for damages entered. El Campo Machine Co. v.
Layne, 195 Fed. 83. The decision is a per curiam and
there is no discussion and no description of the defendant's device in the report.
In 1914, the same Circuit Court of Appeals had to consider the patent again in Van Ness v. Layne, 213 Fed.
804. The claims relied on were the 4th, the 9th, the 13th
and the 20th. The 4th was found not to be infringed,
and as we are not concerned with it here, we can disregard it. The court found that Van Ness, the alleged
infringer, did not use an air vent to force his oil out of
the casing as we are informed by this opinion the infringer
El Campo had done in the previous case. So it was held
that Van Ness did not infringe claim No. 13. The court
held that the jointed feature of the shaft made part of
claim 9 added nothing to the novelty or.. patentability of

LAYNE &c. CO. v. WESTERN WELL WORKS. 391
387

Opinion of the Court.

the evice and that claims No. 20 and No. 9 really covered
the same ground. The court held, however, that the use
of the entirely closed casing to exclude water and detritus
from the shaft and its bearing, to secure lubrication of
the bearings from the top and to align the bearings and
shaft so as to prevent lateral displacement in the well and
keep the shaft in a vertical position was a novelty and
did supply a want in the field of deep pumps. As to infringement the.court held that the casing of Van Ness's
apparatus, although not so completely as the patented device, did keep the water and detritus from all the bearings
but one on the shaft; that the lubrication was effected in
.practically the same way, and, though this was very
doubtful.in the mind of the court, the alignment was preserved by the downward thrust of the suspended casing
aid bearings. Accordingly it was'held that the 20th
claim was infringed.
In Getty v. Lane, 262 Fed. 141, the same court considered the patent a third time. In its opinion, it said
(p. 143):
"The Layne patent too nearly resembles the Crannell patent to be called a pioneer patent, though it did
accomplish a revolution in the well-drilling industry. Its
merit was in adapting the Crannell type of pump to a
narrow and deep well hole, in a way that has been held by
us to exhibit novelty. While the substitution of mere
mechanical equivalents for the means adopted by Layne
could not avoid infringement of his patent, it is also true
that the range of equivalents cannot be enlarged upon
the idea that his patent was a pioneer one in the pump
art. Its advance over Crannell prevented Crannell from
being considered by us an anticipation, and was enough
to show novelty, but it stops there. The Layne patent
must rest, not upon the idea of closure, which would not
be patentable apart from the method by which it was
accomplished, but upon the means of its accomplishment,
as disclosed by the specifications of his patent."

302

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

The court then held that alignment in the alleged
infringement was secured by resting on the bottom of the
well and not by suspension from the top and the downward thrust of the weight. It further held that Layne
effected his lubrication by stagnant oil removed by forced
air at intervals, whereas the alleged infringer had a circulatory system by which the .oil after leaking through
the bearings escaped from the bottom into the water
around the pump, and that finally the closure of the casing against water and detritus was effected not by a bushing or packing but by the downward flow of the oil. This
led*to a dismissal of the bill.
The Circuit Court of Appeals of the Ninth Circuit in
this case instead of differing from that of the Fifth Circuit, seems, on a careful examination of the opinions and
the infringing devices under consideration in the different
cases, to have followed the opinions in the Fifth Circuit.
It sustained the validity of the 9th, 13th and 20th claims.
It did not greatly consider the 13th claim because it was
as clearly not infringed by the respondent here, as it was
not infringed by the Van Ness device in the Fifth Circuit
case. The Ninth Circuit Court held as the Fifth Circuit
Court had held in the Getty CJase, that the scope of the
Layne patent claims was much restricted by the prior art
and that a circulatory system of lubrication was not the
same as a closed stagnant system. The entirely closedcasing as an element of the 20th claim furnishing a stagnant lubrication did not, therefore, find its equivalent in
the casing of the respondent which was open at the bottom to permit a circulatory lubrication.
It is manifest from this review of the conclusions in the
two circuits as to the validity of the Layne patent and
the proper construction to be put upon the 9th, 13th and
20th claims, that they were really in harmony and not in
conflict and that there was no 'ground for our allowing
the writ of certiorari to add to an already burdened

HALLANAN v. EUREKA PIPE LINE CO. 393
387

Syllabus.

docket. If it be suggested that as much effort and time
as we have given to the consideration of the alleged con-

flict would have enabled us to dispose of the case before
us on the merits, the answer is that it is very important
that we be consistent in not granting the writ of certiorari
except in cases involving principles the - settlement of
which is of importance to the public as distinguished
from that of the parties, and in ca§es where there is a
real and embarrassing conflict of opinion and authority
between the circuit courts of appeal. The present case
certainly comes under neither head.
Precedents for dismissing a writ of certiorari improvidently granted are found in 'Furness, Withy & Co. v.
Yang-Tsze Insurance Association, 242 U. S. 430, and in
United States v. Rimer, 220 U. S: 547.
Writ of certioraridismissed.
HALLANAN, STATE TAX-COMMISSIONER, ET AL.
v. EUREKA PIPE LINE COMPANY.
ON PETITION FOR A WRIT OF CERTIORARI AND IN ERROR TO
THE SUPREME COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE "OFWEST
VIRGINIA.

Nos. 569 and 885. Motion to dismiss or affirm, etc., subnitted March
12, 1923.-Decided April 9, 1923.
A mandate from this Court reversing a judgment of a state court
sustaining a tax here found to have been imposed partly on interstate commerce, leaves the state court free to determine the purely
state question whether the statute under which the tax was imposed
is separable so that the tax may be sustained in that part which
affects only intrastate commerce. P. 397.
Petition for certiorari (No. 569) denied.
Writ of error (No. 885) dismissed.

WRIT of error and petition for certiorari to review a
jidgment of the Supreme Court of Appeals of West Vir-

