114

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

261 U. S.

Corporation was created to carry on activities required by
the war. Its property was held for that Iand no other
end. It was admitted at the argument, and of course
could not be denied, that if the United States had been
the legal owner of the gold the plaintiff would have been
acting only in the course of his duty in carrying it. We
are of opinion that the same thing is true here. The
order of the Secretary embodied no suspension of the
Regulation but only a recognition of the fact that this
was not a service for which the plaintiff was entitled to
charge. His. acceptance of the characterization of his
act by the cable that he answered did not change the legal
effect. It simply accepted a wrong reason for a right
result. Judgment reversed.
Judgment of the District Court affirmed.
ROOKER ET AL. v. FIDELITY TRUST COMPANY
ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF INDIANA.

No. 285. Motion to dismiss or affirm submitted January 25, 1923.Decided February 19, 1923.

1. An objection that a state statute violates the Federal Constitution, not presented to the state trial court, nor to the State
Supreme Court except by a petition for rehearing which was
denied without opinion, will not support a writ of error from this
court. P. 116.
2. The claim that a decision of a State Supreme Court, by construing
an agreement otherwise than it had construed it upon. a former,
interlocutory appeal in the same case, impaired the obligation of
the agreement and violated rights under the Fourteenth Amendment, will not sustain a writ of error under Jud. Code, ยง 237, as
amended by the Act of 1916. P. 117.
Writ of error to review 131 N. E. 769, dismissed.

ROOKER v. FIDELITY TRUST CO.
114

Opinion of the Court.

ERRoR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Indiana.

The case is stated in the opinion.
Mr. William V. Rooker, Mr. Floyd G. Christian and
Mr. Ralph H. Waltz for plaintiffs in error.
Mr. Charles B. Cox and Mr. Henry Seyfried for defendants in error.
MR.JusTicE VAN DnV~wTER delivered the opinion of

the Court.
For present purposes this case may be shortly stated.
A wife and husband, both financially embarrassed, transferred certain land in Indiana to a corporate trustee pursuant to an arrangement whereby the trustee was to advance moneys for their benefit, assist in procuring advances from others, protect the title, ultimately sell the
land, use the proceeds in satisfying such mortgages or
liens as might be superior to the rights of the trustee and
in repaying moneys advanced by it and by others, and
turn the residue over to the Wife, her personal representatives or assigns. The purpose of the transfer and the engagements of the parties were set forth in two deeds and
a trust agreement, all executed the same day. Differences
afterwards arose between the parties, and the grantors
brought a suit in a state court in Indiana against the
trustee charging that it had violated and repudiated the
trust, demanding danlages and an accounting, and praying that the truste6 be removed and a receiver appointed
to administer the trust. The trustee answered taking
issue with portions of the complaint, and .in
an amended
cross complaint set up what it claimed had been done
under the trust agreement, alleged in substance that. the
trustee was not in default but stood ready to carry out the
trust and was being hindered and obstructed by the plaintiffs, and prayed- that the title of the trustee, as such, be

116

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

quieted, that further hindrance and obstruction by the
plaintiffs be enjoined, that an accounting be had and that
the trustee. then be directed to make a sale under the trust
agreement and to distribute the proceeds according to its
provisions. The plaintiffs traversed portions of the
amended cross complaint. Thereafter a trial of the issues
was had and the court made a special finding of facts
favorable to the trustee and entered judgment thereon
substantially as prayed in the amended cross complaint.
The Supreme Court of the State affirmed the judgment,
131 N. E. 769, and at the solicitation of the plaintiffs the
Chief Justice of that court allowed the present writ
of error.
The trustee challenges our jurisdiction on the ground
that the case is not one the judgment in which may be
reviewed by us on writ of error. The challenge is well
taken unless the case comes within that part of ยง 237 of
the Judicial Code as amended September 6, 1916, c. 448,
39 Stat. 726,. which tfrovides:
"A final judgment or decree in any suit in the highest
court of a State in which a\ decision in the suit could be
had, where is drawn in question the validity of a treaty
or statute of, or an authority exercised under the United
* States, and the decision is against their validity; or where
is drawn in question the validity of- a statute of, or an
-authority exercised under any State, on the ground of
their being repugnant to the Constitution, treaties, or
laws of the United States, and the decision is in favor of
their validity, may be reexamined and reversed or affirmed
in the Supreme Court upon a writ of error."
It is conceded that there was no effort to question the
validity of any treaty or law of, or authority exercised
under, the United States. But the plaintiffs insist that
the validity of a statute of Indiana relating to conclusions
stated in pleadings and the m6ode of securing better statements, c. 322, Acts 1913; c. 62, Acts 1915, was drawn in

ROOKER v. FIDELITY TRUST CO.
114

Opinion of the Court.

question by them on the ground of the statute's repugnance to various provisions of the Constitution of the
United States and that the court upheld and applied the
statute. Of course, in determining whether that question
was raised and decided we must be guided by the record.
Butler v. Gage, 138 U. S. 52, 56; Zadig v. Baldwin, 166
U. S. 485, 488. It has been examined and we find it does
not show that the question was raised in any way prior tothe judgment of affirmance in the Supreme Court. In
their assignments of error on the appeal to that court the
plaintiffs said nothing about the statute or its validity;
nor'was there any'reference to either in the court's opinion. All that appears is that after the judgment of affirmance the plaintiffs sought to raise the question by a
petition for rehearing, which was denied without opinion.
But that effort came too late. .. Bushnell v. Crooke Mining
& Smelting Co., 148 U.- S. 682, 689; Godchaux Co. v. Estopinal, 251 U. S. 179; Citizens National Bank v. Durr,
257 U. S. 99, 106. Federal questions, like others, should
be presented in an orderly way before judgment. Dewey
v. Des Moines, 173 U. S. 193, 200. And see John v.
Paullin,231 U. S. 583, 585; Atlantic Coast Line R. R. Co.
v,. Mims, 242 U. S. 532, 535. It is at least doubtful that
the question is one of any substance,-but its tardy presentation renders further notice of it unnecessary.
The case had been before the Supreme Court of the
State on a prior appeal and the court had then construed
the trust agreement and dealt in a general way with the
rights of the parties under it. Rooker v. Fidelity Trust
Co., 185 Ind. 172. Referring to this, the plaintiffs, by
way of asserting another ground for the writ of error,
claim that on the second appeal the court took and applied a view of the trust agreement different from that
taken and announced on the first appeal, and that this
change in decision impaired the, obligation of the agreement contrary to the contract clause of the Constitution

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

of the United States and was a violation of the due process
and equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment. Plainly this claim does not bring the case within
the writ of error provision. Both decisions were in the
same case. The first was interlocutory (185 Ind. 187188); the second final. Concededly the case was properly
before the court on the second appeal; the plaintiffs-evidently thought so, for they took it there. Whether the
second decision followed or departed from the first, it was
a judicial act, not legislative. The contract clause of the
Constitution,'as its words show, is directed against impairment by legislative action, not against a change in judicial decision. It has no bearing on the authority of an
appellate court, when a case is brought before it a second
time, to determine the effect to be given to the decision
made when the case was first there. Cross Lake Shooting
& Fishing Club v. Louisiana, 224 U. S. 632, 638; Ross v.
Oregon, 227 U. S. 150, 161; Seattle, Renton & Southern
Ry. Co. v. Linhoff, 231 U. S.568; Kryger v. Wilson, 242
U. S. 171, 177; Columbia Railway, Gas & Electric Co. v.
South Carolina,post, 236. And see King v. West Virginia,216 U. S.92, 100; Messenger v. Anderson, 225 U. S.
436, 444. Assuming that the objection to a change in
decision was seasonably presented, it amounted to nothing more than saying that in the plaintiffs' opinion the
court should follow the first decision. It did not draw in
question the validity of an authority exercised under a
State in the sense of the writ of error provision.
Philadelphia& Reading Coal & Iron Co. v. Gilbert, 245
U. S.162, 166; Stadelman v. Miner, 246 U. S.544, 546;
Moss v. Ramey, 239 U. S.538, 546; Gasquet v. Lapeyre,
242 U. S.367, 369. Whether there was any substantial
change in decision we need not inquire.
There is no other ground which tends even remotely to
sustain the writ of error.
Writ of error dismissed.

