ADKINS v. CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL.

525

Syllabus.

ADKINS ET AL., CONSTITUTING THE MINIMUM
WAGE BOARD OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, v. CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
SAME v. LYONS.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
:COLUMBIA.

Nos. 795, 796. Argued March 14, 1923.-Decided April 9, 1923.
1. The Court of Appeals of the District of Columbia, while consti-.
tuted of two of the three Justices of that court and one Justice of
the Supreme Court of the District, affirmed decrees of the latter
court dismissing bills; thereafter, at the same term, (the Supreme
Court Justice having been replaced by the third Justice of the
Court of Appeals) it 4ranted rehearings and reversed the decrees,
and, thereafter, on second appeals, it affirmed decrees entered pursuant to the reversals. Held that objections to the jurisdiction to
grant the rehearings did not go to the jurisdiction over the second
appeals, and need not be decided here upon review of the decrees
of affirmance. P. 543.
2. Eviery possible presumption stands in favor of an act of Congress
until overcome beyond rational doubt. . P. 544.
3. But when, in the exercise of the judicial authority to ascertain and
declare the law in a given case, it is clear and indubitable that an
act of Congress- conflicts with the Constitution, it is the duty of
the Court so to declare, and to enforce the Constitution. Id.
4. This is not to exercise a power to review and nullfy an act of
Congress, for no such power exists; it is simply a necessary concomitant of the power to hear and dispose of a case or controversy
properly before the court, to the determination of which must be
brought the test and.measure of the law. Id.
5. That the right to contract about one's affairs is part of the liberty
of the individual protected by the Fifth Amenament, is settled by
repeated decisions of this Court. P. 545.
6. Within this liberty are contracts of employment of labor. In
making these, generally speaking, the~parties have equal right to
obtain from each other the best terms they can by private bargaiming. Id,

526

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Statement of the Case.

261U.S.

7. Legislative abridgment of this freedom can only be justified by
the existence of exceptional circumstances. P. 546.
8. Review of former decisions concerning interferences with liberty
of contract, by
(a) Statutes fixing the rates and charges, of businesses affected by a
public interest. P. 546.
(6) Statutes relating to the performance of contracts for public
work. P. 547.
(c) Statutes prescribing the character, methods and time for payment of .wages. Id.
(d) Statutes fixing hours of labor. Id.
9. Legislation fixing hours or conditions of work may properly take
into account the physical differences between men and women; but,
in view of the equality of legal status, now established in this
country, the doctrine that women of mature age require, or may be
subjected to, restrictions upon their liberty of contract which
could. not lawfully be imposed on men in similar circumstances,
must be rejected. P. 552.
10. The limited legislative authority to regulate hours of labor in
special occupations, on the ground of health, affords no support
to a wage-fixing law,--the two subjects are essentially different.
P. 553.
11. The Minimum Wage Act of Sept. 19, 1918, c. 174, 40 Stat. 960,
in assuming to authorize the fixing of minimum wage standards
for adult women, in any occupation in the District of Columbia,
such standards to be based wholly upon what a board and its
advisers may find to be an adequate wage to meet the necessary
cost of living for women workers in each particular calling and to
maintain them in good health and protect their morals, is an unconstitutional interference with the liberty of contract. P. 554.
284 Fed. 613, affirmed.

APPEALs from decrees of the Court of Appeals of the
District of Columbia, affirming two decrees, entered, on
mandate from that court, by the Supreme Court of the
District, permanently enjoining the appellants from enforcing orders fixing minimum wages under the District
of Columbia Minimum Wage Act.
Mr. Felix Frankfurter, with whom Mr. Francis H.
Stephens was on the brief, for appellants.

ADKINS v. CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL.
525

527

Argument for Appellants.

The presumption to be accorded an act of Congressthat it be respected imless transgression of the Constitution is shown "beyond a rational doubt "-amply sustains
the District of Columbia Minimum Wage Law, particularly in view of the circumstances of its enactment. Congress, under Art. I, § 8, cl. 17, is possessed. of the" same
power and charged with the same duty of legislating
within the District. as belongs to. the States within their
respective boundaries. Congress, in dealing with a practical problem, followed the example of many States in.
passing the act in question. Such legislation has uniformly been sustained by the courts. State v. Crow, 130
Ark. 272; Holcombe v. Creamer,231 Mass. 99; Williams v.
Evans, 139 Minn. 32; Miller Telephone Co. v. Minimum.
Wage Commission, 145 Minn. 262; Stettler v. O'Hara,
69 Ore. 519; and Simpson v. O'Hara,70 Ore. 261, affirmed,
by divided court in 243 U. S. 629; Larson v. Rice, 100
Wash. 642; Spokane Hotel Co. v. Younger, 113 Wash.
359; Poye v. State, 89 Tex. Crim. Rep. 182. Congress
did not, however, rely upon a body of state laws sustained
by the courts and vindicated by experience. Senate and
House Committees held hearings ,on the needs of this'
legislation, in view of the conditions prevailing in the District. No one appeared to oppose the bill. An organized
body of employers endorsed the bill and urged its passage.
The Committees unanimously recommended the legislation. H. Rep. No 571, 65th Cong., 2d sess.; S. Rep. No.
'562, 65th Cong., 2d sess. And the bill was passed- without opposition in the House, and only twelve "nays"
in the Senate. Moreover, the judgment of Congress has
now been vindicated by the results of over four years in
the actual operation of the law, and ,ten years of extensive
experience with such legislation in California, Massachusetts, Minnesota, Oregon, Washington and Wisconsin.
Unfair depression in the wages of many women workers
has been significantly reduced, without adversely affecting

528

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Appellants.

261 U. S.

industry or diminishing appreciably employment for employables. The legislation has also successfully weathered
the severest strains of "hard times." It is urged with
confidence that no such body of laws "attesting a widespread belief in the necessities of such legislation," Prudential Insurance Co. v. Cheek, 259 U. S. 530, supported
by uniform judicial approval, subjected to so long, extensive, fair and favorable a test of actual experience, has
ever been before this Court, to vindicate the reasonableness of the legislative intervention and to negative the
claim that Congress was' guilty of "a purely arbitrary or
capricious exercise of that [legislative] power." Truax
v. Corrigan,257 U. S. 312, 329.
Congress aimed at "ends" that are "legitimate and
within the scope of the Constitution." McCulloch v.
Maryland,4 Wheat. 316,421. Charged with the responsibility of safeguarding the welfare of the women and children of the District of Columbia, it found that alarming
public evils had resulted, and threatened in increasing
measure, from the widespread existence of a deficit between the essential needs for decent life and the actual
earnings of large numbers of women workers of the District. In the judgment of Congress, based upon unchallenged facts, these conditions impaired the health of this
generation of women and thereby threatened the coming
generation through undernourishment, demoralizing shelter and insufficient medical care. In its immediate effects,
also, financial burdens were imposed upon the District,
involving excessive and unproductive taxation, for the
support of charitable institutions engaged in impotent
amelioration rather than prevention. Here, if ever, was
presented a community problem of a most compelling
kind, calling for legislation "greatly and immediately
necessary to the public welfare." Noble State Bank v.
Haskell, 219 U. S. 104, 111. The purpose of the act was
to -provide for the deficit between the cost of wQmen'

ADKINS v. CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL.
525.

529

Argument for Appellants.

labor, i. e., the-means necessary to keep labor going-and
any rate of women's pay below the minimum level for
living, and thereby to eliminate all the evils attendant
upon such deficit upon a large scale. There is no dispute
that Congress was acting in good faith, after mature deliberation, in -owing the purposes which it did in the
enactment of nis law, to wit: "To protect the women and
minors of the District from conditions detrimental to
their health and morals, resulting from wages which are
inadequate to maintain decent standards of life." Having regard to the concrete situation, the judgment of Congress that such legislation was necessary cannot in reason
be stigmatized as unreasonable.
The means selected by Congress "are appropriate"
and "plainly adapted" (McCulloch v. Marylandi supra)
to accomplish the legitimate ends. The possible alternatives open to Congress in this situation were: (1),. to submit to the evils as inevitable human misfortunes, subject
only to alleviation through public and private charity;
(2), provide a direct subsidy out of the public treasury
to pay a wage equal to the necessary, cost of living; (3),
adopt the Massachusetts method, which seeks to compel
for women workers a minimum wage through the pressureof public exposure of offending employers; or, (4), take
the method it did take, which involved a prohibition of
the use of women's labor for less than its cost except by
special license from- the Board.
There was cumulative testimony, both in the belief of
those entitled to express an opinion and in the actual,
record of experience, that these evils are not inevitable
human misfortune. Congress was entitled to disprove
that lazy gospel of fatalism as other English-speaking
countries equally jealous of safeguarding liberty and
property, and many American States, had disproved it.
From the point of view of effectiveness in accomplishing
its purposes, the choice of Congress, .among the three re-

530

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Appellants.

261 U. S.

medici methods, surely was not "arbitrary" or "unreasonable." It had the support of a great'body of public
opinidn, (see Jacobsonv. Massachusetts, 197 U. S. 11,
31, 34-35; Muller v. Oregon, 208-U. S. 412, 420; McLean
Nv. Arkansas, 211 U. S.539, 548-9;. Tanner v. Little, 240
U. S. 369, 385-6), crystallized in the extensive and suc-cessful experience of English countries with such legislatCon, in the fact of such legislation in other States, in the
successful working of such legislation. In other words,
Congress rested upon the appeal "from judgment by
speculation to judgment by experience." Tanner v. Little,
40 U. S.369, 386.
. Where a law has been long on the statute books, speculative claims of injustice must yield to the results of actual experience. Cf. National UnionFireIns. Co. v. Wan.berg, 260 U. S; 71.
No'rights of plaintiffs secured under the Constitution
prohibit the use of the means adopted by Congress in the
Minimum Wage Law to accomplish legitimate public
,ends. It is for the plaintiff to show some explicit withdrawal of the legislative power as exercised in this case.
The only alleged obstruction is the "due process" clause.
And the only point for consideration is whether the
deprivation of ' liberty" or "property" which is involved
is "without due process of law."
This Court has consistently recognized the futility of
defining "due process." The "due process" clauses embody a standard of fair dealing to be applied to the myriad
variety of facts that are involved in modern legislation.
That is why -is Court has Yafused to draw lines in advance. The impact of f:ts must establish the line in
6ach-case. The application of "due process" clauses is,
in the last analysis, a process of judgment by this Court.
In .the application of the varying facts to the test 6f fair
dealing the ultimate question in this Court s, does legislation, or its actual operation, "shock the sense of fairness

ADKINS v. CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL.
525

Argument for Appellants.

the Fourteenth Amendment was intended to satisfy in
respect to state legislation "? Chicago & N. W. Ry. Co. v.
Nye Schneider Fowler Co., 260 U. S. 35. During the fifty
years of extensive judicial unfolding; the central ideas
that inhere in this constitutional safeguard have become
manifest. A careful study of the long line of cases especially dealing, with the "due process" clause, beginning
with the Slaughter-Houss Cases, 16 Wall. 36, shows two
dominant ideaa conceived to, be fundamental principles:
(1) Freedom from arbitrary or wanton hiterfrence, and.
(2) protection against spoliation of property. "Arbitrary," "wanton" and "spoliation" are the words which
are the motif of the decisions under the "due process"
clauses. That is as close as we can get to it; it is close
enough when dealing with the great questions of government. What it means is that the Fourteenth Amendment intended to leave the States the free play necessary
for effective dealing with the constant shift of governmental problems, and not to hamper the States except'
where it would be obvious to disinterested men that the
action was arbitrary and wanton, and therefore spoliative
and unjustified. -Of course exactly the same freedom of
action, the same scope for legislation, belongs to Congress when dealing with the District.
-It is not arbitrary, wanton or spoliative for Congress
to require the consent of the Board before allowing a wage
contract affecting women at :below cost, but a valid
exercise of the "police power," because of the actual
handicaps of women in industry. This was one of the
principal grounds of the state courts in sustaining this
legislation. This is legislation of the same nature as that
revealed by a long line of cases upholding limitations
placed upon freedom of contract with women in various
.ways. They rest upon a realization of the:fact that the
mass of women workers cannot secure terms of employment needful from the point of view of public welfare

532

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Appellants.

261 U. S.

without the weight of legislation being thrown into the
scales. Muller -v. Oregon, 208 U. S. 412; Riley v. Massachusetts, 232 U. S. 671; Hawley v. Walker, 232 U. S. 718;
Miller v. Wilson, 2361U. S. 373; Bosley v. McLaughlin,
236 U. S. 385.
It is not arbitrary, wanton or spoliative for Congress to
require employers to pay the cost of women's labor. The
employer, and the employer alone, receives the benefit of
the woman's working energy, which cannot -be produced
or maintained by less than the reasonably ascertained
minimum cost of her labor. Since he has her product he
ought to pay for its cost, unless and until the employer,
by special license, is given the right to use labor at less
than its usual cost.
The action of Congress is not arbitrary, wanton, or
spoliative; because the direct interest of the District in
these particular wage contracts affecting women gave it a
special justification for controlling them. A contract for
labor below its cost must inevitably rely upon a subsidy
from outside or result in human deterioration. To the
extent of the subsidy or the deterioration the public is
necessarily concerned. The employer has no constitutional right to such an indirect subsidy or to cause such
deterioration. Nor has a woman any absolute "right"
to give her energies to the employer if she cannot keep
her side of the bargain -without indirect pubsidy or without incurring physical or moral impairment.
It is not arbitrary, wanton or spoliative to require the
employer to obtain a-license from the Board befoxe he can
buy. a womin's labor at less than cost; because that is a
reasonatle means of preventing cut-throat and unfair
competition between manufacturers. Congress legislated
in the light of actual industrial conditions which denied
the abstract equality of bagaining power among women.
Congress found that women, in -substantil numbers, were
under a haandicap because they were women.. Therefore

ADKINS v. CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL.
525

533

Argument for Appellants.

by legislation it sought to fill the gaps caused by the ignorance or helplessness of women workers, and he ignorance
or avarice of sbme employers. In"this it merely followed
a long line of legislation which has restricted the field of
unregulated competition by prohibitions enforced through
a great variety of-remedies. The Constitution does. not
require that right standards should prevail solely through
their inherent reasonableness or through enlightened selfinterest.
It is not arbitrary, wanton or spoliative for Congress
to require the consent of the Board before allowing a
woman employee to sell labor below cost; because that is
a reasonable means for preventing unfair competition between women employees. The underlying principle is the
same as that which eliminates prison labor from competition against free labor. The essential purpose is to
compel employers to pay the living cost to all their women
employees whose product is worth it, and thereby corre-spondingly protect the efficient against ruinous competition.It is not arbitrary, wanton or spoliative for Congress to
require the consent of the Board hfore allowing wage
contracts to women workers at bel6w cost; because that
is a reasonable exercise of power to foster the productivity
of industry. This is a measure of conservation and preservation of the human "resources of the State, which is of
even more primary.importance than the conservation of
natural resources. And. so its constitutionality follows a
fortiori from the iiie of cases which support statutes
passed* for the preservation and- effective utilization of
natural resources. Hudson Water Co. v. McCarter, 209
U. S. 349; Mt. Vernon Co. v. AlabamaPower Co., 240
U. .S. 30; Pacific Live Stock Co. v. Oregon Water Board,
241 U. S. 440; Walls v. Midland CarbonCo., 254 U. S. 300.
The majority opinion of the District Court of Appeals
erects its own no.tions of policy into constitutional prohi-

534

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Appellants.

261 U. S.

bitions. It assumes a specific constitutional prohibition
against interference with the wage contracts. But there
is no specific prohibition against dealing with a wage contract, as such. There is only the general guarantee of fair
dealing,--the satisfaction of a "sense of fairness" of the
"due process" clauses; and so we find that the wage contract has been interfered with frequently by legislation
with the sanction of this Court-legislation which directly affected the money value of the wage contracts,
which operated to the financial advantageof one side and
was of alleged cost to the other. Payment in cash as
against store orders, Knoxville Iron Co.v. Harbison, 183
U. S. 13; Dayton Coal Co: v. Barton, 183 U. S. 24; Keokee
Co v. Taylor, 234 U. S. 227; payment on basis of coal
mined before being screened, McLean v. Arkansas, 211
U. S. 539; Rail and River Co. v. Yaple, 236 U.- S. 338;
semi-monthly cash payments, Erie R. R. Co.v. Williams,
233 U. S. 685-all these requirements .affected money
terms, cash value, dollars and cents; all involved legisla.tive interferences with wage contracts; all were sustained
because each was found a not'unreasonable meaiis to safeguard a public interest. Each case was dealt with, not on
any absolutist assumption of immunityof wage contracts
from legislative interference, but quite the opposite; the
concrete circumstances of each case were found to negative arbitrary restraint.
The great fact that this legislation applies solely to
women has no relevance for the-Court of Appeals. "If
it [Congress] may regulate wages for women, it may by
the exercise of the same power establish the wages to be
paid men." This argument is founded upon the Nineteenth Amendment. But the political equality of woman
is an irrelevant factor. The argument was long ago anticipated and answered, in classic language, by this Court.
Men and women remain men and women forever. Muller
v. Oregon, 208U. S. 412, 422-23.

ADKINS v.CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL.
525

535

Argiument for Appellees.

Adair v: United States, 208 U.* S. 161, and Coppage v.
Kans s, 236 U. S. .1,
are wholly inapplicable. The considerations of public health, morals and the general welfare which are the basis and immediate aims of the Minimum Wage Law for women are not presented by- the
statutes involved in tfie earlier cases. The restricted
scope of these cases, dealing with a purpose "to favor the
employee at the expense 6f the employer and to build up
the labor organizations" was carefully pointed out in a
recent decision by the Justice who wrote for the court in
the Coppage Case. Prudential Insurance Co. v. Cheek,
259 U. S.530.
Neither in reason nor in experience does the Minimun
Wage Law for women imply, aEthe court below indicated,
power "to, fix the prices of all commodities 'entering into
the determination of an equitable wage." Nor is there
any basis for the claim that " experience has demonstrated
that a fixed minimum wage means in the last analysis a
fixed wage.""
On all these questions'we appeal from "judgment by
speculation" to "judgment by experience." Tanner v.
Little, 240 U. S.369, 386.
Mr. Wade H. Ellis and Mr. Challen B. Ellis, with whom
Mr. Joseph W. Folk was on the brief, for appellees.
The Minimum Wage Law of the District of Coliumbia is'
unconstitutional because it is a price-fixing law, directly
interfering with freedom of contract, which is a part of
the liberty of the citizen' guaranteed in the Fifth Amendment, and no exercise of the police power justifies the
fixing of prices either of' property or of services in a
private business, not affected with a public interest, and
as.a permanent measure.
The protection .of liberty and property guaranteed in
the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments includes freedom
of contract, embracing contract for personal services.

536

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Appellees.

261 U.S.

Coppage v. Kansas, 236 U. S. 1, 14; Truax v. Raich, 239
U. S. 33; Prudential Insurance Co. v. Cheek, 259 U. S.
530. These principles apply to legislation by Congress
for the District of Columbia. Callanv. Wilson, 127 U. S.
540,550; Wight v..Davidson, 181 U. S. 371.
That a law fixing wages generally in private employment would be beyond legislative power is uniformly assumed or indicated in the decisions of this Court. Cooley,
Const. Lim., 7th ed., p. 87a; Labatt, Master and Servant,
2nd ed., § 846; Frisbie v. United States, 157 U. S. 160,
166; Coppage v. Kansas, 236 U. S. 1; Bunting v. Oregon,
243 U. S. 426. In decisions of this Court where wage
laws or price-fixing laws have been sustained, such laws
were sustained solely on the ground that they were to tide
over a temporary emergency and in business affected with
a public interest. Wilson v. New, 243 U. S. 332; Ft.
Smith & Western R. R. Co. v. Mills, 253 U. S. 206; Block
v. Hirsh, 256 U. S. 135; PennsylifaniaCoal Co. v. Mahon,
260 U. S.393.
There is a clear distinction between "hours-of-service,"
and similar laws directly promoting health or safety or
preventing fraud and only indirectly affecting the cost of
labor, on the one hand, and on the other hand " wage
laws," directly fixing the price in the bargain between employer and employee, and only indirectly or remotely
effecting some other purpose. The distinction is pointed
out in Coppage v. Kansas, 236 U. S. 1; Frisbiev. United
States, 157 U. S. 160, 166. The mere freedom to contract
secured in the constitutional guaranty cannot itself be
said to be inimical to the public welfare and restricted
under the guise of an exercise of the police power, for the
police power cannot be used to amend the Constitution.
PennsylvaniaCoal Co. v. Mahon, 260 U. S. 393; Truax v.
Corrigan,257 U. S. 312.
If a law fixing prices or wages is not a health law, because the mere freedom to determine the amount that

ADKINS v. CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL.
525

537

Argument for Appellees.

should be charged in the exchange of property or services
for money cannot itself be dangerous to health, morals or
safety, then manifestly it is not a health law for women
any more than it would be for men, and it does not become valid by having it apply to women only. " Hoursof-service" laws are distinguishable in this respect.
"Hours-of-service" laws, being clearly health laws within
the police power, permit the exercise of legislative discretion to determine the extent to which they shall go and
to take into account the differences in physical nature of
the persons to whom they shall apply. They may be in a
particular instance justified as to women, where they
might not be as to men. Muller v. Oregon, 208 U. S. 412.
But, being proper exercises of the police power, as health
laws, they would also be valid when appropriately applied
to men. Bunting v. Oregon, 243 U. S. 426. But the general rule that a person has the right to sell his labor 'upon
such terms as he deems proper, is a fundamental rule applying to men and women alike. Adair v. United States,
208 U. S. 161, 174.
The contention that this Court must consider only the
reasonableness of the law, so as to determine whether it is
arbitraryj wanton or spoliative, and cannot consider the
power of Congress to deal at all with the subject, is
answered in the decisions. Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S.
366; Pollock v. Farmers' Loan & Trust Co., 157 U. S.
429; Coppage v; Kansas, 236 U. S. 1; Truax v. Raich, 239
U. S. 33; Mugler v. Kansas, 123 U. S. 623; Child Labor
Tax Case, 259 U. S. 20. If every law which expedience
may suggest may be called a health law, or a public welfare law, and thus become an exercise of the police power,
the constitutional limitations break down, and no action
of the legislative body is in any way restricted by the
positive guaranties of the fundamental law. Truax v.
Corrigan,257 U. S. 312; PennsylvaniaCoal-Co. v. Mahon,
260 U. S. 393; Child Labor Tax Case, supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Appellees.

261 U. S.

Thi contention that the consequences of sustaining the
power of the legislative body to fix wages for women cannot be considered, is wholly at variance with the decisions
of this Court in numerous cases. In testing the constitutionality of any legislative act, we have the right to inquire, as this Court did, in Adair v. United Statqs, 208
U. S. 161; Coppage v. Kansas, 236 U. S. 1; Truax v.
Raich, 239 U. S. 33; Truax v. Corrigan,.257 U. S. 312;
Child Labor Tax Case, 259 U. S. 20, to what distance and
in what direction the departure from familiar standards
may lead us, and what precedents may be established by
sustaining the power claimed, which may be cited hereafter as authority for further legislation of wider scope or
more extended character.
Requirement of a minimum wage, without corresponding requirement of amount or efficiency of service in return, is the taking of property without just compensation, and not even for a public purpose, but for private
purpose, contrary to the Tifth Amendment and the Ninth
Amendment.
The requirement that wages shall be fixed at a sum to
maintain health and protect morals, provides a vague and
uncertain- standard incapable of application and renders
the act void for this reason alone. 40 Stat. 960, §§ 9, 11.
The contention that employer or employee are not deprived of property rights because special licenses for defectives are provided for in the act, is unsound, because
special licenses can not be obtained by the employer, nor
by the employee as such, and, in any event, the wage is
still fixed by the Board. 40 Stat. 960, 963, § 13.
The assignment of error in the action of the Court of
Appeals in granting a rehearing on the first appeal from
the Supreme Court of the District is without merit, because the present review is from the second appeal in the
lower court, and not from the first appeal, and no question
can be raised as to the authority of the court below to

ADKINS v. CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL.
525

539

Opinion of the Court.

hear and determine the second appeal. Rooker v. Fidelity
Trust Co., 261 U. S, 114. Further it is elementary that
the granting or refusing of a rehearing in an equity suit is
not the subject of review. Steines v. FranklinCounty, 14
Wall. 15; Roemer v. Neumann, 132 U. S. 103.
Mr. William L. Brewster, by leave of court, on behalf
of the States of Oregon, New York,' Califdrnia, -Kansas,
Wisconsin and Washington, as amicus curiae.
By leave of court, briefs were iled by counsel, appearing
as amici curiae, as follows: Mr. Isaac H. Van Winkle,
Attorney General of the State of Oregon, Mr. Joseph N.
Teal and Mr. William L. Brewster, on behalf of the Industrial Welfare Commission of Oregon. Mr. Carl Sherman,
Attorney General of the State of New York, and Mr.
Edward G.. Griffin, Deputy Attorney General, on behalf
of that State. Mr. Hiram Johnson and Mr. Jesse Steinhart, on behalf of the Industrial Welfare Commission of
California. Mr. John G. Egan, Assistant Attorney General of the State of Kansas, on behalf of that State. Mr.
Herman L. Ekern, Attorney General of the State of Wisconsin, Mr. J. E. Messerschmidt,Assistant Attorney General, *and Mr. Fred M. Wlcox, on behalf of that State.
Mr. Eatward-Clifford and Mr. Kenneth Durham on behalf
of the Minimum Wage Committee of the State of Wash-

ington.
MR. JusTics SuTHERLAN
Court.

delivered the opinion of the

The question presented for determination by these appeals is the constitutionality of the Act of September 19,
1918, providing for the fixing of mminimum wages for
women and children in the District of Columbia. •40Stat.
960, c. 174..
The act provides for a board of three members, to be
constituted, as.far as practicable, so as to be equally repre-

540

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

sentative of employers, employees and the public. The
board is authorized to have public hearings, at which. persons interested in the mattdr being investigated may appear and testify, to administer oaths, issue subpoenas requiring the attendance of witnesses and production of
books, etc., and to make rules and regulations for cairying the act into effect.
By § 8 the board is autthorized"(1), To investigate and ascertain the wages of women
and mim*ors in the different occupations in which'they are
employed in the District of Columbia; (2), to examine,
through any member or authorized representative, any
book, pay roll or other record of any employer of women
or minors that in any way appertains to or has a bearing
upon the question of wages of any such women or minors;
and (3), to require from such employer fill and true
statements of the wages paid to all women and minors in
his employment."
And by § 9, "to ascertain and declare, in the manner
hereinafter provided, the following things: (a), Standards
of minimum wages for women in any occupation within
the District of Columbia, and what wages are inadequate
to supply the necessary cost of living to any such women
workers to maintain them in good health and to protect
their morals; and (b), standards of minimum wages for
minors in any occupation within the District of Columbia,
and what wages are unreasonably low for any such minor
workers."
The act then provides (§ 10) that if the board, after
investigation, is of opinion that any substantial number of
women workers in any occupation are receiving wages inadequate to supply them with the necessary cost of living,
maintain them in health and protect their morals, a conference may be called to consider and inquire into and
report on the subject investigated, the conference to be
equally representative of employers and employees in

_0
525

ADKINS v. CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL.

541

Opinion of the Court.

such occupation and of the public, and to include one or
more members of the board.
The conference is required to make and transmit to the
board a repoit including, among other things, "recommendations as to standards of minimum wages for women
:workers in the occupation under inquiryand as to what
wages are inadequate to supply the necessary cost of
living to women workers in such occupation and to maintain them in health and to protect their morals." § 11
The board is authorized (§ 12) to consider and review
these recommendations and to approve or disapprove any
or all of them. If it approve any recommendations it must
give public notice of its intention and hold a public hearing at which the persons interested will be heard. After
such hearing, the board is authorized to make such order
as to it may appear necessary to carry into effect the
recommendations, and to require all employers in the
occupation affected to comply therewith. It is made unlawful for any suih employer to violate in this regard any
provision of the order or to employ any woman worker
at lower wages than are thereby permitted.
There is a provision (§ 13) under which the board may
issue a special license to a woman whose earning capacity
"has been impaired by age or otherwise," authorizing her
employment at less than the minimum wages fixed under
the act.
All questions of fact (§ 17) are to be determined by
the board, from whose decision there is no appeal; but
an appeal is allowed on questions of law.
Any violation of the.act (§ 18) by an employer or his
agent or by corporate agents is declared to be a misdemeanor, punishable by fine and imprisonment.
Finally, after some further provisions not necessary to
be stated, -it is declared (§ 23) that the purposes of the
act are "to protect the women and minors of the District

542

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

from conditions detrimental to their health and morals,
resulting from wages which are inadequate to maintain
decent standards of living; and the Act in each of -itsproyisions and in its entirety shall be interpreted to effectuate these purposes."
The appellee in the first case is a corporation maintaining a hospital for children in the District. It employs a
large numbir of women in various capacities, with whom
it had agreed upon rates of wages and compensation satisfactory to such employees, but which in some instances
were less than the minimum wage fixed by an order of
the board made in pursuance of the act. The women
with whom appellee had so contracted were all of full age
and under no legal disability. The instant suit was
brdught by the appellee in the Supreme Court of the
District to restrain the board from enforcing or attempting to enforce its order on the ground that the same was
in contravention of the Constitution, and particularly the
due process clause of the Fifth Amendment.
In the second case the appellee, a woman twenty-one
years of age, was employed by the Congress Hall Hotel
Company as an elevator operator, at a salary of $35 per
month and two meals a day. She .alleges that the work
was light and healthful, the hours short, with surroundings clean and moral, and that she was anxious to continue it for the compensation she was receiving and that
she did not earn more. Her services were satisfactory to
the Hotel Company and it would have been glad to retain
her but -was obliged to dispense with her services by
reason of the order of the board and on account of the
penalties prescribed by the act. The wages received by
thisappellee were the best she was able to obtain for any
work she was capable of performing and- the enforcement
of the order, she alleges, deprived her of such employment
and wages. She further averred that she could not secure
any other position" at which she could make a living, with

ADKINS v. CHILDRENS HOSPITAL.
525

543

Opinion of the Court.

as good physical and moral surroundings, and. earn as
good wages, and that she was desirous of continuing and
would continue the employment but for the 9rder of the
board. rAn injunction was prayed ai in the other case.
•The Supreme Court of the District denied the injunction and dismissed the bill in each case. -Upon appeal the
Court of Appeals by a majority first affirmed and subsequently, on a rehearing, reversed the trial court. Upon
the first argument a justice of the District Supreme Court
was calld in to take the place of one of the'Appellate
Court justices, who, was ill. Application for rehearing
.was made and, by the court as thus constituted, was
denied. :Subsequently, and during the term, a rehearing
was granted by an order concurred in by two of the
Appellate Court justices, one being the justice whose
jilace on the prior occasion had been filled by the Supreme
Court member. Upon the rehearing thus granted, the
Court of Appeals, rejecting the first opinion, held the act'
in questionto be unconstitutional and reversed the decrees
of the trial court. Thereupon the cases were remanded,
and the trial court entered decrees in pursuance of the
mandate, declaring the act in question to be unconstitutional and granting permanent injunctions. Appeals to
the Court of Appeals followed and the decrees of the trial
court were affirmed. It is from these final decrees that
the cases come'here.
Upon this state of facts the jurisdiction of the lower
court to grant a rehearing, after first denying it, is challenged. We do not deem it necessary to consider the
matter farther than to say that we are here dealing with
the second appeals, while the proceedings complained of
occurred upon the first appeals. That the lower court,
could properly entertain the second appeals .and decide
the cases does not admit of doubt; and this the appellants
virtually conceded by having themselves invoked the
jurisdiction. See Rooker v. Fidelity Trust Co.,ante, 114.

544

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

We come then, at. once, to the substantive question
involved.
The judicial duty of passing upon the constitutionality
of an act of Congress is one of great gravity and delicacy.
The statute here in question has successfully borne the
scrutinkr of the legislative branch- of the government,
which,- by enacting it, has affirmed its validity; and that
determination must be given great weight. This Court,
by an unbroken line of decisions from Chief Justice
Marshall to the present day, has steadily adhered to the
rule that every possible presumption is in favor of the
validity of an act of Congress until overcome beyond
rational doubt. But if by clear and indubitable demonstration a statute be opposed to the Constitution we have
no choice but to say so. The Constitution, by its own
terms, is the supreme law of the land, emanating from
the people, the repository of ultimate sovereignty under
our form of government. 'A congressional statute, on the
other hand, is the act ,of an agency of this sovereign
authority and if it conflict with the Constitution must
fall; for that which is not supreme must yield to that
which is. To hold. it invalid (if it be invalid) is a plain
exercise of the judicial power-that power vested in
courts to enable them to administer justice according to
law. From the authority to ascertain and determine the
law in a given case, there necessarily results, in case of
conflict, the duty to declare and enforce the rule of the
supreme law and reject that .of an inferior act of legislation which, transcending the Constitution, is of no effect
and binding on no one. This is not the exercise of a substantive power to review and nullify acts of Congress, for
no such substantive power exists. It is simply a necessary concomitant of the power to hear and dispose of a
case or controversy properly.before the court, to -the determination of which must be brought the test and
measure of the law.

ADKINS v. CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL.
525

545

Opinion of the Court.

The statute now under consideration is attacked upon
the ground that it authorizes an unconstitutional interference with the freedom'of contract included within the
guaranties of the due process clause of the Fifth Amendment. That the right to contract about one's affairs is a
part of the liberty of the individual protected by this
clause, is settled by the decisions of this Court and is no
longer open to question. Allgeyerv. Louisiana,165 U. S.
578,- 591; New York Life Insurance Co. v. Dodge, 246
U. S. 357, 373-374; Coppage v. Kansas, 236 U. S. 1, 10,
14; Adair v. United States, 208 U. S. 161; Lochner v.
New York, 198 U. S. 45; Butchers' Union Co. v. Crescent
City Co., 111 U. S. 746; Muller v. Oregon, 208 U. S. 412,
421. Within this liberty are contracts of employment of
labor: In making such contracts, generally speaking, the
parties have an equal right to obtain from each other the
best terms they can as the result of private bargaining.
In Adair v. United States, supra, Mr. Justice Harlan
(pp. 174, i75), speaking for the Court, said:
"The right of a person to sell his labor upon'such
terms as he deems proper is, in its essence, the same as the
right of the.purchaser of labor to prescribe the conditions
upon which he will accept such labor from the person
offering to sell.

..

.

In all such particulars the em-

ployer and employe have equality of right, and any' legislation that disturbs that equality is an arbitrary interference with the liberty of contract which, no government
can legally justify in a free land."
In Coppage v. Kansas,supra (p. 14), this Court, speaking through Mr. Justice Pitney, said:
"Included in the right of personal liberty and the right
of private property-partaking of the nature of each-is
the right to make contracts for the acquisition of property. Chief among such contracts is that of personal
employment, by which' labor and other services are exchanged for money or other forms of property. If this

•546

OCTOBER TERM, 1.922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

right be struck down or arbitrarily interfered with, there
is a substantial impairment of liberty in the long-established constitutional sense. The right is as essential to
the laborer as to the capitalist, to the poor as to the rich;
for the vast majority of persons have no other honest way
to'beiin to acquire property, save by working for money.
"An' interference with this liberty 'so serious as that
now under consideration, and so disturbing of equality of
right, must be deemed to be arbitrary, unless it be supportable as a reasonable exercise of the police power of
the State."
There is, of course, no such thing as absolute freedom
of contract. It is subject to a great variety of restraints.
But freedom of contract is, nevertheless, the general rule
and restraint the exception; and the exercise of legislative
authority to abridge it can be justified only by the existence of exceptional circumstances. Whether these circumstances exist in the present case constitutes the question to be answered. It will be helpful to this end to
review some of the decisions where the interference has
been upheld and consider the grounds upon which they
rest.
(1) Those dealing with statutes fixing rates and
charges to be exacted by businesses impressed with a public interest. There are many cases, but it is sufficient to
cite Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S.113. The power here rests
upon the ground that where property is devoted to a
public use the owner thereby, in effect, grants to the
public an interest in the use which may be controlled by
the public for the common good to the extent of the
interest thus created. It is upon this theory that these
statutes have been upheld and, it may be noted in passing, so upheld even in respect of their incidental and
injurious or destructive effect upon preexisting contracts.
See Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co.v. Mottley, 219 U. S.
467. In the case at bar the statute does not depend upon

ADKINS v. CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL.
525

547

Opinion of the Court.

the existence of a public interest in any business to be
affected, and this class of cases may be laid aside as
inapplicable.
(2) Statutes relatin~g to contracts for the performance
of public work. Atkin v. Kansas, 191 U. S. 207; Heim v.,
McCall, 239 U. S. 175; Ellis v. United States, 206 U. S.
246. These cases sustain such statutes as depending, not
upon 'the right to condition private contracts, but upon
the right of the gdvernment. to prescribe the conditions
upon which it will permit work of a public character to
be done for it, or, in the case of a State, for its municipalities. We, may, therefoie, in like manner, dismiss these
decisions from consideration as inappliiable.
(3) Statutes prescribing the, character, methods and
time for payment of wages. Under this head may be i cluded McLean v. Arkansas, 211 U. S. 539, sustaining a
state statute reqtuirng coal to be measured for payment
of miners' Wages before screening; Knoxville Iron Co. v.
Harbison,183 U. S. 13, sustaining a Tennessee statute requiring the redemption in cash of store orders issued iii
payment of wages; Erie R. R. Co. v. Williams, 233 U. S.
685, upholding a statute regulating the time within which
wages shall be paid to employees in certain specified in"dustries; and other cases sustaining statutes of like import and effect. In none of the statutes thus sustained,
was the liberty of employer or employee to fix the amount
of wages the one was willing to pay and the other willing
to receive interfered with. Their tendency and purpose
was to prevent unfair and perhaps fraudulent -methods in
thfe payment of wages and in no sense can they be said
to be, or to furnish a precedent for, wage-fixing statutes.
(4) Statutes fixing hours of labor. It is upon this class
that the greatest emphasis is laid in argument and therefore, and because sucji cases approach most nearly the
line of principle applicable to the .statute here involved,
we shall consider them more at length. In some instances

548

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

the statute limited the hours of labor for men in certain
occupations and in others it was confined in its applica-

tion to women. No statute has thus far been brought to
the attention of this Court which by its terms, applied to
all occupations. In Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 366, the
Court considered an act of the Utah legislature, restricting the hours of labor in mines and smelters. This statute
was sustained as a legitimate exercise of the police power,
on ihe ground that the legislature had determined that
these particular employments, when too long pursued,
were injurious to the health of the employees, and that,
as there were reasonable grounds for supporting this determination on the part of the legislature, its decision in
that respect was beyond the reviewing power of the federal courts.
That this constituted the basis of the decision is emphasized by the subsequent decision in Lochner v. New
York, 198 U. S. 45, reviewing a state statute which re.stricted the employment of all persons in bakeries to ten
hours in any one day. The Court referred to Holden v.
Hardy, supra, and, declaring it to be inapplicable, held
the statute unconstitutional as .an unreasonable, unnecessary and arbitrary interference with the liberty of contract and therefore void under the Constitution.
Mr. Justice Peckham, speaking for the Court (p. 56),
said:
"It must, of course, be conceded that there is a limit
to the valid exercise of the police power by the State.
There is no dispute concerning this general proposition.
Otherwise the Fourteenth Amendment would have no
efficacy and the legislatures of the States would have unbounded power,. and it would be enough to say that any
piece of legislation was enacted to conserve the morals,
the health or the safety of the people; such legislation
would be valid, no matter how absolutely without foundation the claim might be. The claim of the police power

ADKINS v. CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL.
525

549

Opinion of the Court.

would be a mere pretext-become another and delusive.
name for the supreme sovereignty of the State to be exercised free from constitutional restraint."
And again (pp. 57-58):
"It is a question of which of two powers or rights shall
prevail-the power of the State to legislate or the right
6f the bidividual to liberty of person and freedom of contract. The mere assertion that the subject relates though
but in a remote degree to the public health does not necessarily render the enactment Valid. The act must have a
more direct relation, as a means to an end, and the end
-itself must-be appropriate and legitimate, before an act
can be held to be valid which ipterferes with the general
right of an individual to be free in his person and in his
power to contract in relation to his own labor."
Coming then directly to the statute (p: 58), the Court
said:
"We think the limit of the police power has. Zeen
reached and passed- in this case. Thee.is, in our Judgment, no reasonable foundation fr lh-61ding this to be
necessary or appropriate as a health law to safeguard the
public health or he health of the individuals who are
following the trade of a baker. If this statute be valid,
and if, therefore, a proper case is made out in which to
deny the right of an individual, sui juris, as employer or
employ6, to make contracts for the labor of the latter
under the protection of the provisions of the Federal
Constitution, there would seem to be no length to which
legislation of this nature might not go."
And, after pointing out the unreasonable range to which
the principle of the statute might be extended, the Court
said (p. 60):
"It is also urged, pursuing the same line of argument,
that it is to the interest of the State that its population"
should be strong and robust, and therefore any legislation
which may be said to tend to make people healthy must

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

be valid as health laws, enacted under the police power.
If this be a valid argument and a justification for this kind
of legislation, itfollows that the protectioi of the Federal
Constitution from undue interference with liberty of person and freedom of contract is visionary, wherever the
law is sought to be justified as a valid exercise of the police
power. Scarcely any law but might find shelter under
such assumptions, and conduct, properly so called, as well
as contract, would come under the restrictive sway of
the legislature."
And further (p. 61):
"Statutes of the nature of that under review, limiting
the hours in which grown and intelligent men may labor
to earn their living, are mere meddlesome interferences
with the rights of the individual, and they are not saved
from condemnation by the claim that they are passed in
the exercise of the police power and upon the subject of
the health of the individual whose rights are interfered
with, unless there be some fair ground, reasonable in
and of itself, to say that there is material danger to the
public health or to the health of tle employes, if the hours
of labor are not curtailed."
Subsequent cases in this Court have been distinguished
from that decision, but the principles therein stated have
never been disapproved.
In Bunting v. Oregon, 243 U. S.426, a state statute forbidding the employment of any person in any mill, factory
or manufacturing establishment more than ten hours in
any one day, and providing payment for overtime not
exceeding three hours in any one day at the rate of time
and a half of the regular wage, was sustained on the
ground that, since the state legislature and State Supreme
Court had found such a law necessary for the preservation
of the health of employees in these industries, this Court
would accept their judgment, in the absence of facts to
support .the contrary conclusion. .The law was attacked

ADKINS v. CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL.
525

551.

Opinion of the Court.

on the ground that it constituted an attempt to fix wages,
but that contention wasrejected and the law sustained as
a reasonable regulation of hours of serVice.
Wilson v. New, 243 U. S; 332, involved the validity of
the so-called Adamson Law, which -established an .eighthour day for employees of interstate carriers for which it
fixed a scale of minimum wages with proportionate increases for overtime, to be enforced, however, only for a
limited period. The act was sustained primarily upon
the ground that it was a regulation of a business charged
with a public interest. The Court, speaking through the
Chief Justice, pointed 'out that regarding "the private
right and private interest as contradistinguished from the
public interest the power exists between the parties, the
employers and employees, to agree as to a standard "of
wages free from legislative interference " but that this
did not affect the power to deal with the matter with a
view to protect the-public right, and then said (p,353):
. "And this emphasizes that there is no question
here of
purely private right since the law is concerned only with
those who are engaged in a business charged with a public
interest where the subject dealt with as to allthe parties is
one involved in that business and which we have seen
•comes under the control of the right to regulate to the
extent that the power to do so is appropriate or relevant
to the business regulated."
Moreover, in sustaining the wage feature, of the law,
emphasis was put upon the fact (p. 345) that it was in
this respect temporary "leaving the employers and employees free as to the subject of wages to govern their
relations by their own agreements after the specified
time." The act was not only temporary in this respect,
but it was passed to meet a sudden and great emergency.
This feature of the law was sustained principally because
the parties, for the time being, could not or would not
agree. Here they are forbidden to agree.

552

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U.S.

The same principle was applied in the Rent Cases
(Block v. Hirsh, 256 U. S. 135, and Marcus Brown Holding Co. v. Feldman, 256 U. S. 170), where this Court
sustained the legislative power to fix rents as between
landlord and tenant upon the ground that the operation
of the statutes was temporary to tide over an emergency
and that the circumstances were such as to clothe "the
letting of buildings . . . with a public interest so
great as to justify regulation by law." The Court said
(p. 157):
"The regulation is put and justified only as a temporary measure [citing Wilson v. New, supra]. A limit in
time, to tide over a passing trouble, well may justify a
law that could not be upheld as a permanent change."
In a subsequent case, PennsylvaniaCoal Co. v. Mahon,
260 U. S. 393, 416, this Court, after saying "We are in
danger of forgetting that a strong public desire to improve
the public condition is not enough to warrant achieving
the desire by a shorter cut than the constitutional way of
paying for the change," pointed out that the Rent Cases
dealt with laws intended to meet a temporary emergency
and " went to the verge of the law."
In addition to the cases cited above, there are the decisions of this Court dealing with laws especially relating
to hours of labor for women: Muller v. Oregon, 208
U. S. 412; Riley v. Massachusetts, 232 U. S. 671; Miller
v. Wilson, 236 U. S. 373; Bosley v. McLaughlin, 236
U. S. 385.
In the Muller Case the validity of an Oregon statute,
forbidding the employment of any female in certain industries more than ten hours during any one day was
upheld. The decision proceeded upon the theory that
the difference between the sexes may justify a different
rule respecting hours of labor i. the case of women than
in the case of men. It is pointed out that these consist
in differences of physical structure, especially in respect

ADKINS v. CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL.
525

553

Opinion of the Court.

of the maternal functions, and also in the fact that histor-ically woman has always been dependent upon man, who
has established his control by superior physical strength.
.The cases of Riley, Miller and Bosley follow in this respect the Muller Case. But the ancient inequality of
the sexes, otherwise than physical, as duggested in the
Muller Case (p. 421) has continued "with diminishing
intensity." In view of the great-not. to say revolutionary-changes which have taken place since that utterance, in the contractual, political and civil status of
women, culminating in the Nineteenth Amendment, it is
not unreasonable to say that these differences have now
come almost, if not quite, to the vanishing point. In
this aspect of the matter, while the physical differences
must be recognized in appropriate cases, and legislation
fixing hours or conditions of work may properly take
them into account, we cannot accept the doctrine that
women of mature age, sui jurts, require or may be subjected to restrictions upon their liberty of contract which
could not lawfully be imposed in the case of men under
similar circumstances.. To do so would be to ignore all
the implications to be drawn from the present day trend
of legislation, as well as that of common thought and
usage, by which woman is accorded emancipation from
the old doctrine that she must be given special protection
or bd subjected to special restraint in her contractual and
civil relationships. In passing, it may be noted that the
instant statute applies in the case of a woman- employer
contracting with a woman employee as it does when the
former is a man.
. The essential characteristics of the statute now under
consideration, which differentiate it from the laws fixing
hours of labor, will be made to appear as we proceed.- It
is sufficient now to point out that the latter as well as the
statutes mentioned under paragraph (3), deal with incidents of the employment having no necessary effect upon

554

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U.S.

the heart of the contract, that -is, the amount of wages
to be paid and received. A law forbidding work to continue beyond a given number of hours leaves the parties
free to contract about wages and thereby equalize whatever additional burdens may be imposed upon the employer as a result of the restrictions as to hours, by an
adjustment in respect of the amount of wages. Enough
has been said to show that the authority to fix hours of labor cannot b3 exercised except in respect of those occupa-.
tions where work of 1ong continued duration is detrimental
to health. This Court has been careful in every case where
the question has been raised, to place its decision upon
this limited authority of the legislature to regulate hours
of labor and to disclaim any purpose to uphold the legislation as fixing wages, thus recognizing an essential difference between the two. It seems plain that these decisions afford no real support for any form of law establishing minimum wages.
If now, in the light furnished.by the foregoing exceptions to the general rule forbidding legislative interference with freedom of contract, we examine and analyze
the statute in question, we shall see that it differs from
them in every material respect. It is not a law dealing
with any business charged with a public interest or with
public work, or to meet and tide over a temporary emergency. It has nothing to do with the character, methods
or periods of wage payments. It does not prescribe hours
of labor or conditions under which labor is to be done.
It is not for the protection of persons under legal disability or for the prevention of fraud. It is simply and
exclusively a price-fixing law, confined to adult women
(for we are not now considering the provisions relating
to minors), who are legally as capable of contracting for
themselves
as men. It forbids two parties having lawful
capacity-under
penalties as to the employer-to freely
contract with one another in respect of the price for

ADKINS v. CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL.
525

555

Opinion of the Court.

which one shall render service to the other, in a purely
private employment where both are willing, perhaps
anxious, to agree, even though the -consequence may be
to oblige one to surrender a desirable engagement and the
other to dispense with the services of a desirable employee.'- The price fixed by the board need have no rela-

fion to the capacity or earning power of the employee,
the number of hours which may happen to constitute the
day's work, the character of the place where .the work is
to be done, or the circumstances or surroundings of the
employment; and, while it has no -other basis to support
its validity than the assumed necessities of the employee,
it takes no account of any independent resources she may.
have. It-is based wholly on the opinions of the members
of the board and their advisers-,-rperhaps an average of
their opinions, if they do not precisely agree-as to what
will be necessary to provide a living for a woman, keep
her in health and preserve hei morals. It applies to"
any and every occupation in the District, without regard
to its nature or the character of the work.
The standard furnished by the statute for the guidance
of the board is so vague as to be impossible of practial
application with any reasonable degree of accuracy.
What is sufficient to supply the necessary cost of livifig
for a woman worker and maintain her in good health and
protect her morals is obviously not a precise or unvarying
sum-not even approximately so. The amount will depend upon a variety of circumstances: the individual temperament, habits of thrift,-care, ability to buy-necessaries
intelligently, and- whether the woman live alone or with
her family. To those who practice economy, a given sum
will afford comfort, while to those of contrary habit the
same sum will be wholly inadequate. The coiperative
economies of the famly group are not taken into account
'This is the exact situation in the Lyons case, as is shown by the
statement in the first part of.this opinion.

556

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

though they constitute an important consideration in estimating the cost of living, for it is obvious that the individual expense will be less in the case of a member of a
family than in the case of one living alone. The relation
between earnings and morals is not capable. of standardization. It cannot be shown that well paid women safeguard their morals more carefully than those who are
poorly paid. Morality rests upon other considerations
than wages; and there is, certainly, no such prevalent
connection between the two as to justify a broad attempt
to adjust the latter with reference to the former. As a
means of safeguarding morals the attempted classification. in our opinion, is without reasonable basis. No distinction canbe made between women who work for others
and those who do not; nor is there ground for distinction
between women and men,- for, certainly, if women requite
a minimum wage to preserve their morals men require it
to pfeserve their honesty. For these reasons, and others
which might be stated, thenquiry in respect of the neces'sary cost 'of living and of the income necessary to preserve
health and morals, presents an individual and not a composite question, and must be answered for each individual
considered by herself and not by a general formula prescribed by a statutory bureau.
This uncertainty of the statutory standard is demonstrated by a consideration of certain orders of the board
already made. These orders fix the sum to be paid to a
woman employed in-a place where food is served or in a
mercantile establishment, at $16.50 per week; in a printing establishment, at $15.50 per week; and in a laundry,
at $15 per week, with a provision reducing this to $9 in
the case of a beginner. If a woman .employed to serve
food requires a minimum of $16.50 per week, it is hard to
understand how the same woman working in a printing
establishment or in a laundry is to get on with an income
lessened by from $1 to $7.50 per week. The board'prob-

ADKINS v. CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL.
525

557

Opinion of the Court.

ably'found it impossible to follow the indefinite standard
of the statute, and brought other and different factors into
the problem; and this goes far in the direction of demonstrating the fatal uncertainty of the act, an infirmity
which, in our opinioi, plainly exists.
The law takes account of the necessities of only one
party to the contract. It ignores the necessities of the
employer by compelling him to pay not less thaii a certain
sum, not only whether the employee is capable of earning
it, but irrespective of the ability of his business to sustain
the burden, generously leaving him, of course, the privi,
lege of abandoning his business as an alternative for going
on at a loss. Within the limits of the minimum sum, he
is precluded, under penalty of flee and imprisonment,
from adjusting compensation to the differing merits cf.
his employees. It compels him to pay at least the sum
.fixed in any event, because -the employee needs it, but
requires no service of equivalent value from the employee.
It"therefore undertakes to. solve but one-half of the
-problem. The other half is the establishment of a corresponding standard .of efficiency, and this forms no part
of the policy of the legislation, although in practice the
former half without the latter must lead to ultimate failure, in accordance with the inexorable la-w that no one
can continue indefinitely to take out more than he puts
in without ultimately exhausting. the supply. The law
is not confined to the great and powerful employers but
embraces those whose bargaining power may be as weak
as that of the employee. It takes no account of periods
of stress and business depression, of crippling losses, which
may leave the employer himself without adequate means
of livelihood. To the extent that the sum fixed exceeds
the fair value of the services rendered, it amounts to a
compulsory exaction from the employer, for the support
.. of a partially indigent person, for whose condition there

5158

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U.S.

rests upon him no peculiar responsibility, and 'therefore,
in effect, arbitrarily shifts to his !!houlders a;burden which,
if it belongs to anybody, belongs to society as a whole.
The feature ot this statute which, perhaps more than
any other, puts upon it the stamp of invalidity is that it
exacts from the employer an arbitrary payment for a purpose and upon a basis having no causal connection with
his business, or the contract or the work the employee
engages to do. The declared basis, as already pointed out,
is not the value of the service rendered, but the extraneous
circumstance that the employee needs to get a prescribed
sum of money to insure her subsistence, health and morals.
The ethical right of every worker, man or woman, to a
living wage may be conceded. One of the declared and
important purposes of trade organizations is to secure it.
And with that principle and with every legitimate effort
fact, no one can quarrel; but the fallacy
to realize it in.
of the proposed method of attaining it is that it assumes
that every employer is bound at all events to furnish it.
The moral requirement implicit in every contract of employment, viz, that the amount to be paid and the service
to be rendered shall bear .to each other some relation of
just equivalence, is completely ignored. The necessities
of the employee are alone-considered and these arise outside of the employment, are the same when there is no
employment, and as great in one occupation as in another.
Certainly the employer by paying a fair equivalent for
the service rendered, though not sufficient to support the
employee, has- neither caused nor contributed to her
poverty. On the contrary, to the extent of what he pays
.he has relieved it. In principle, there can be no difference
between the case of selling labor and the case of .selling
goods. If, one goes to the butcher, the baker or grocer to
buy food, he is-morally entitled to obtain.the worth of his
money but he is not entitled to more.. If what, he gets
is worth what he pays .he is not justified in demanding

ADKINS V. CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL..
525

559

Opinion of the Court.

more simply because he needs more; and the shopkeeper,
having dealt fairly and honestly in that transaction, is not
concerned in any peculiar seise with the question of his
customer's necessities. Should a statute undertake to
vest in a commission power to determine the quantity of
food necessary for individual support and require the
shopkeeper, if he sell to the individual at all, to furnish
that quantity. at n'ot more than a fixed maximum, it would
undoubtedly fall before. the constitutional test. The fallacy of any argument ini support of the validity of such a
statute would be quickly exposed. The argument in support of that now being considered is equally fallacious,
though the weakness of it may not be so plahi. A statute
requiring an employer to pay in money, to pay at prescribed and regular intervals, to pay the value of the
services rendered, even to pay with fair relation to the
extent of the benefit obtained from the service, would be
understandable. But a statute which prescribes payment
without regard to any of these things and solely with relation to circumstances apart from the contract of employment, the business affected by it and the work done under
it, is so clearly the product of a naked, arbitrary exercise
of power that it cannot be allowed to stand under the
Constitution of the United States.
We are asked, upon the one hand, to consider the fact
that several States have adopted similar statutes, and we
are invited, upon the other hand, to give weight to the
fact that three times as many States, presumably as well
informed and as anxious to promote the health and iniorals
of their people, have refrained from enacting such legislation. We have also been furnished with a large number
of printed opinions approving the policy of the minimum
wage, and our own reading-has disclosed a, large number
to the contrary. These are all propier enough for the consideration of the lawmaking bodies, since their tendency
is to *establish the desirability or undesirability of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

legislation; but they reflect no legitimate light upon the
question of its validity, and that is what we are called
upon to decide. The elucidation of that question cannot
be aided by counting heads.
It is said that great benefits have resulted from the
operation of such statutes, not alone in the District of
Columbia but in the several States, where they have been
in force. A mass of reports, opinions .of special observers
and students of the subject, and the like, has been brought
before us in support of this statement, all of which we
have found interesting but only mildly persuasive. That
the earnings of women now are greater than they were
formerly and that conditions affecting women have become better in other respects may be conceded, but convincing indications of the logical relation of these desirable changes to the law in question are significantly lacking. They may be, and quite probably are, due to other
causes. We cannot close our eyes to the notorious fact
that earnings everywhere in all occupations have greatly
increased-not alone in States where the minimum wage
law obtains but in the country generally-quite as much
or more among men as among women and in occupations
outside the reach of the law as in those governed by it.
No real test of the economic value of the law can be had
during periods of, maximum employment, when general
causes keep wages up to or above the minimum; that will
come in periods of depression and struggle for employment when the efficient will be employed at the minimum
rate vhile the less capable may not be employed at all.
Finally, it may be said that if, in the interest of the
public welfare, the police power may be invoked to justify the fixing of a minimum wage, it may, when the
public welfare is thought to require it, be invoked to justify a maximum wage. The power to fix high wages connotes, by like course of reasoning, the power to fix low
wages. If, in the face of the guaranties of the Fifth

ADKINS v. CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL.
525

561

Opinion of the Court.

Amendment, this form of legislation shalt be legally justified, the field for the operation of the police power will
have been widened to a great and dangerous degree. If,
for example, in the opinion of future lawmakers, wages
in the building trades shall become so high as to preclude
people of ordinary means from building -and owning
homes, an authority which sustains the minimum wage
will be invoked to support a maximum wage for building
laborers and. artisans, and the same argument which has
been here urged to strip the employer of his constitutional liberty of contract in one direction will be utilized
to strip the employee of his constitutional liberty of contract in the opposite direction. A wrong decision does
not end with itself: it is a precedent, and, with the swing
of sentiment, its bad influence may run from one extremity of the arc to the other.
It has been said tiat legislation of the kind now under
review is required in the. interest of social justice, for
whose ends freedom of contract may lawfully be subjected to restraint. The liberty of the individual to do as
he pleases, even in innocent matters, is not absolute. It
must frequently yield to the common good, and the line
beyond which the power of interference may not be
pressed is neither definite nor unalterable but may be
made to move, within limits not well defined, with changing need and circumstance. Any attempt to fix a rigid
boundary would be unwise as well as futile. But, nevertheless, there are limits to the power, and when these
have been passed, it becomes the plain duty of the courts
in the proper exercise of their authority to so declare. To
sustain the individual freedom. of action contemplated by
the Constitution, is not to strike down the common good
but to exalt it; -for surely the.good of society as a whole
cannot be better served than by the preservation against
arbitrary restraint of the liberties of its constituent members.

562

6 OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
TAFT, Ch. J., and

9ANFORD,

J., dissenting.

261 U. S.

It follows from what has been said that the act in question passes the limit prescribed by the Constitution, and,
accordingly, the decrees of the court below are
Affirmed.
MR.

JUSTICE BRANDEIS

took no part in the considera-

tion or decision of these cases.
MR. CHIEF

JuSTICE

TAFr, dissenting.

I regret much to differ from the Court in these cases.
The boundary of the police power beyond which its
exercise becomes an invasion of the guaranty of liberty
under the Fifth and Fourteeith Amendments to the Constittition is not easy to mark. Our Court has been laboriously engaged in pricking out a line in successive cases.
We must be careful, it seems to me, to follow that line as
well as we can and not to depart from it by suggesting a
distinction that is formal rather than real.
Legislatures in limiting freedom of contract between
employee and employer by a minimum wage proceed on
the assumption that employees, in the class receiving least
pay, are not upon a full level of equality of choice with
their employer and in their necessitous circumstances are
prone to accept pretty much anytlng that is offered.
They are peculiarly subject to the overreaching of the
harsh and greedy employer. The evils of the sweating
system and of the long hours and low wages which are
characteristic of it are well known. Now, I agree that it
is a disputable question in the field of political economy
how far -a statutory requirement of maximum hours or
minimum wages may be a useful remedy for these evils,
and whether it may not make the case of the oppressed
employee worse than it was before. But it is not the
function of this Court to hold congressional acts invalid
simply because they are passed to carry out economic
views which the Court believes to be unwise or unsound.

ADKINS v. CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL.
525

TAFr, Ch. J., and

563

SANFORD, J., dissenting.

.Legislatures which adopt a requirement of maximum
hours or minimum wages may be presumed to believe that
when sweating employers are prevented from paying unduly low wages by positive law they will continue their
business, abating that part of their profits, which were
wrung from the necessities of their employees, and will
concede the better terms required by the law; and that
while in individual cases hardship may result, the restriction will enure to the benefit of the general class of employees in whose interest the law is passed and so to that
of the community at large.
The right of the legislature under the Fifth and Fourteenth Amendments to limit the hours of employment on
the score of the health of the employee, it seems to me,
has been firmly established. As to that, one would think,
the line had been pricked out so that it has become a well
formulated rule. In Holden v. Hardy, 169 U. S. 366, it
was applied to miners and rested on the unfavorable environment of employment in mining and smelting. In
Lochner v. New York, 198 U. S. 45, it was held that restricting those. employed in bakeries to ten hours a day
was an arbitrary and invalid -interference with the liberty
of contract secured by the Fourteenth Amendment.
Then followed a number of cases beginning with Muller
v. Oregon, 208U. S. 412, sustaining the validity of a limit
on maximum hours of labor for women to which I shall
hereafter allude, and following these cases came Bunting
v. Oregon, 243 U. S. 426. In that case, this Court sustained a law limiting the hours of labor of any person,
whether man or woman, working in any mill, factory or
manufacturing establishment to ten hours a day with a
proviso as to further hours tc which I shall hereafter advert. The law covered the whole field of industrial employment and certainly covered the case of persons
employed in bakeries. Yet the opinion in the Bunting
Case does not mention the Lochner Case. No one can

.564

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
T . , Oh. J., and SANFORD, J., dissenting.

261 U. S.

suggest any constitutional distinction between employment in a bakery and one in any other kind of a manufacturing establishment which should make a limit of hours
in the one invalid, and the same limit in the other permissible. It is impossible for me to reconcile-the Bunting Case and the. Lochner Case and I have always
supposed that the Lochner Case was thus overruled sub
silentio. Yet the opinion of the Court herein in support
of its conclusion quotes from the opinion in the Lochner
Case as one which has been sometimes distinguished but
never overruled. Certainly there was no attempt to distinguish it in the Bunting Case.
However, the opinion herein does not overrule the
Bunting Case in express terms, and -therefore I assume
that the conclusion in this case rests on the distinction
between a minimum of wages and a maximum of hours in
the limiting of liberty to contract. I regret to be at
variance with the Court as to the substance of -this distinction. In absolute freedom of contract the one term
is as important as the other, for both enter equally into
the consideration given and received, a restriction as to
one is not any greater in essence than the other, and is of
the same kihd. One is the multiplier and the other the
multiplicand.
If it be said that long hours of labor have a more direct
effect upon the'health of the employee than the low wage,
there is very respectable authority from close observers,
disclosed in the record and in the literature on the subject quoted at length in the briefs, that they are equally
harmful in this regard. Congress took this view and we
can not say it was not warranted in so doing.
With deference to the very, able opinion of the Court
and my brethren who concur in it, it appears to me to
exaggerate the importance of the wage term of the contract of employment as more inviolate than its other
_erms. Its conclusion seems influenced by the fear that the

ADKINS v. CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL.
525

565

TAFT, Ch. J., and SANFORD, J., dissenting.

concession of the power to impose a minimum wage must
carry with it a concession of the power to fix a maximum
wage. This, I submit, is a non sequitur. A line of distinction like the one under discussion in this case is, as
-the opinion elsewhere admits, a matter of degree and
practical experience and not of pure logic. Certainly the
wide difference between prescribing a minimlum wage and
a maximum wage could as a matter of degree and experience be easily affirmed.
Moreover, there- are decisions by this Court which. have
sustained 'legislative limitations in respect to the wage
term in contracts of employment. In McLean v. Arkansas, 211 U. S. 539, it was held within legislative p6wer
to make it 'unlawful to estimate the graduated pay of
miners by Fveight after screening the coal. In Knoxville
Iron Co. v. Harbison, 183 U. S. 13, it was -held that store
orders issued -for wages must be redeemable in cash. In
Pattersonv. Bark Eudora, 190 -U. S. 169, a law forbidding the payment of wages in advance was held -valid. A
like case is StrathearnS. S. Co. v. Dillon, 252 U. -5. 348.
While these did not impose a minimum on wages, they
did take away from the employee the freedom to agree as
to how they should be fixed, in what medium they should
be paid, and when they should be paid, all features that
might affect the amount or the mode of,enjoyment of
them. The first two really rested on the advantage the
employer had in dealing with-the employee. The third was
deemed a proper curtailment of a sailor's right of contract
in ihis own interest because of his proneness to squander
his wages in port before sailing.. In Bunting v. Oregon,
supra, employees, in a mill, factory or manufacturing. establishment were required if they worked over ten hours
a day to accept for the three additional hours permitted
not less than fifty per cent. more than their usual wage.
This was sustained as a mild penalty imposed on the employer to enforce the limitation as to hours; but it neces-

566

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
TAFr, Ch. J., and SAINFORD, J., dissenting.

261 U. S.

sarily curtailed the employee's freedom to contract to
work for the wages he saw fit to accept during those three
hours. I do not feel, therefore, that either on the basis
of reason, experience or authority, the boundary of the
police power should be drawn to include maximum hours
and exclude a minimum wage.
Without, however, expressing an opinion that a minimum wage limitation can be enacted for adult men, it is
enough to say that the case before us involves only the
application of the minimum wage to women. If I am
right in thinking that the legislature can find as much
support in experience for the view that a sweating wage
has as great and as direct a tendency to bring about an
injury to the health and morals of Workers, as for the
view that long hours injure their health, then I respectfully submit that Muller v. Oregon, 208 U. S. 412, controls this case. The law which was there sustained forbade the employment of any female in any mechanical
establishment or factory or laundry for more than ten
hours. This covered a pretty wide field in women's
work and it would not seem that any sound distinction
between that case and this can be built up on the fact
that the law before us applies to all occupations of
women with power in the board to make certain exceptions. Mr. Justice Brewer, who spoke for the Court in
Muller v. Oregon, based its conclusion on the natural
limit to women's physical strength and the likelihood
that long hours would therefore injure her health, and we
have had since a series of cases which may be said to have
established a rule of decision. Riley v. Massachusetts,
232 U. S. 671; Miller v. Wilson, 236 U. S. 373; Bosley v.
McLaughlin, 236 U. S. 385. The cases covered restrictions in wide and varying fields of employment and in
the later cases it will be found that the objection to the
particular law was based not on the ground that it had
general application but because it left out some employments.

ADKINS v. CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL.
525

567

HoLUEs, J., dissenting.

I am not sure froma reading of the opinion whether the
Court thinks the authority of Muller v. Oregon is shaken
by the adoption of the Nineteenth Amendment. The
Nineteenth Amendment did not change the physical
strength or limitations of women upon which the decision
in Muller v. Oregon rests. The Amendment did give
women political power and makes more certain that legislative provisions for their protection will be in accord with
their interests as they see them. But I don't think we
are warranted in varying constitutional construction based
onphysical differences between men and women, because
of the Amendment.
But for my inability to agree with some general observations in the forcible opinion of MR. JUSTICE HOLMES who
follows me, I should be silent and merely record my concurrence in what he says. It is perhaps wiser for me,
however, in a case of this importance, separately to give
my reasons for dissenting.
I am authorized to say that MR. JU STIE SANFORD concurs in this opinion.
MR. JUSTICE HoLMEs, dissenting.
The question in this case is the broad one, Whether
*Congress can establish minimum rates of wages for women
in the District of Columbia with due provision for special
circumstances, or whether we must say that Congress has
no power to meddle with the matter at all. To me, notwithstanding the deference due to the prevailing judgment of the Court, the power of Congress seems absolutely free from doubt. The end, to remove conditions
leading to ill health, immorality and the deterioration of
the race, no one would deny to be within the scope of constitutional legislation. The means are means that have
the approval of Congress, of many States, and of those
governments from whih we have learned our greatest

568

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
HoLMEs, J., dissenting.

261 U. S.

lessons. When so many intelligent persons, who have
studied the matter more than any of us can, have thought
that the means ate effective and are worth the price, it
seems to me impossible to deny that the'belief reasonably
may be held by reasonable men. If the law encountered
no other objection than that, the means bore no relation
to the 'end or that they cost too much I do not suppose
that anyone would, venture to say that it was bad. I
agree, of course, that a law answering the foregoing requirements might be invalidated by specific provisions of
the Constitution. For instance it might take private
property without just compensation. But in the present
instance the only objection that can be urged is found
within the vague contours of the Fifth Amendment, prohibiting the depriving any person of liberty or property
without due process of law. To that I turn.
The earlier decisions upon the same words in the Fourteenth Amendment began within our memory and went
,no farther, than an unpretentious assertion of the liberty
to follow the ordinary callings. Later that innocuous
generality was expanded into the dogma, Liberty of Contract. Contyact is not specially mentioned in the text
that we have to construe. It is merely an example of
doing what you want to do, embodied in the word liberty.
But.pretty much all law consists in forbidding men to do
some things that they want to do, and contract is no more
exempt from law than -other acts. Without enumerating
all the restrictive laws that have been upheld I will mention a few that seem to me to.have interfered with liberty
of contract quite as seriously and directly as the one before
us. Usury laws prohibit contracts by which a, man receives more than so much interest for the money that he
lends. Statutes of frauds restrict many contracts to certain forms. Some Sunday laws prohibit practiqally all
contracts during one-seventh of our whole life. Insurance
rates may be regulated. German Alliance Insurance Co.

-ADKINS. v.
525

-CHILDREN'S HOSPITAL..

569

HOLmES, J., dissenting.

v. Lewis, 233 U. S. 389. (I concurred in that de~ision
without regard to the public interest with which insurance
was said to-be clothed. It seemed to me that the principle
was general.) Contracts may be forced upon the companies. National Union Fire Insurance Co. v. Wanberg,
260 U. S. 71. Employers of miners may be required-to
pay for coal by weight before screening. McLean v.
Arkansas, 211 U. S. 539. Employers generally may be
required to redeem in cash store orders accepted by their
employees in payment. ,Knoxville Iron.Co. v. Harbison,
183 U. S. 13. Payment of sailors in advance may be forbidden. Pattersonv. Bark Eudora, 190 U. S. 169. The
size of a loaf of bread may be established. Schmidinger v.
Chicago, 226 U. S. 578.. The responsibility of employers
to their employees may be profoundly modified. New.
York CentralR. R. Co. v. White, 243 U. S. 188. Arizona
Employers' Liability Cases, 250 U. S. 400. Finally
women's hours of labor may be fixed; Muller v. Oregon,
208 U. S. 412; Riley v. Massachusetts,232 U. S. 671, 679;
Hawley v. Walker, 232 U. S. 718; Millei v. Wilson, 236
U. S. 373; Bosley v. McLaughlin, 236 U. S.385; and the
principle was extended to men with the allowance of a
limited overtime to be paid for "at the rate of time and
one-half of the regular wage," in Bunting v. Oregor, 243
U. S. 426.
I confess that I do not understand" the principle on
which the power to fix a minimum for the wages of
women can be denied by those who admit the power to
fix' a maximum for their hours of work. I fully assent to
the proposition that here as elsewhere the distinctions of
the law are distinctions of degree, but I perceive no difference in the kind or degree of interference with liberty,
the only matter with which we have any concern, between
the one case and the other. The bargain is equally affected ,whichever half you r'egulate. Muller V. Oregon,
I take it, is as good law today as it was in 1908. It will

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
HOLMES, J., dissenting.

261 U. S.

need more than the Nineteenth Amendment to convince
me that there are no differences between men and women,
or that legislation cannot take those differences into account. I should not hesitate to take them into account
if I thought it necessary to sustain this act. Quong Wing
v. KirkendalI, 223 U. S. 59, 63. But after Bunting v.
Oregon, 243 U. S. 426, I had supposed that it was not
necessary, and that Lochner v. New York, 198 U. S. 45,
would be allowed a deserved repose.
This statute does not compel anybody to pay anything.
It simply forbids employment at rates below those fixed
as the minimum requirement of health and right living.
It is safe to assume that women will not be employed at
even the lowest wages allowed unless they earn them, or
unless the employer's business can sustain the burden.
In short the law in its character and operation is like
hundreds of so-called police laws that have been upheld.
I see no greater objection to using a Board to apply the
stan-dard fixed by the act than there is to the other commissions with which we have become familiar, or than
there is to the requirement of a license in other cases.
The fact that the statute warrants classification, which
like all classifications may bear hard upon some individuals, or in exceptional cases, notwithstanding the power
given to the Board to issue a special license, is no greater
infirmity than is incident to all law. But the ground on
which the law is held to fail is fundamental and therefore
it is unnecessary to consider matters of detail.
The criterion of constitutionality is not whether we
believe the law to be for the public good. We certainly
cannot be prepared to deny that a reasonable man reasonably might have that belief in view of the legislation of
Great Britain, Victoria and a number of the States of this
Union. The belief is fortified by a very remarkable collection of documents submitted on behalf of the appellants, material here, I conceive, only'as showing that the

WATKINS v. SEDBERRY.
525

571

Syllabus.

belief reasonably may be held. In Australia the power
to fix a minimum for wages in the ease of industrial disputes extending beyond the limits of any one State was
given to a Court, and its President wrote a most interesting account of its operation. 29 Harv. Law Rev. 13. If
a legislature should adopt what he thinks the doctrine of
modern economists of all schools, that "freedom of contract is a misnomer as applied to a contract between an
employer and an ordinary individual employee," ibid. 25,
I could not pronounce an opinion with which I agree
impossible to be entertained by reasonable men. If the
same legislature should accept his further opinion that
industrial peace was best attained by the device of a
Court having the above powers, I should not feel myself
able to contradict it, or to deny that the end justified
restrictive legislation quite as adequately-as beliefs coneerning Sunday or exploded theories about usury. I
should have my doubts, as I have them about this
statute-but they would be whether the bill that has to
be paid for every gain, although hidden as interstitial
detriments, was not greater than the gain was worth: a
matter that it is not for me to decide.
I am of opinion that the statute is valid and that the
decree should be reversed.
WATKINS, TRUSTEE, ET AL. v. SEDBERRY ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

SIXTH CIRCUIT.
No. 248. Argued January 19, 1923.-Decided April 9, 1923.
1. The amount "of attorney's fees to be charged against a bankrupt
estate as an expense of administration is subject to examination
and approval by the Court (Bankruptcy Act, § 762a); the trustee
is ncit authorized to dispose of property of the estate by contract
with an attorney on a contingent basis. P. 574.'

