ARKANSAS GAS CO. v. RAILROAD COMM.
374

370

Counsel for Parties.

gage and that is what is forbidden by the law of the
United States.
A petition for certiorari presented by the plaintiff in
error for greater caution will be dismissed.
Decree reversed.
ARKANSAS
NATURAL COMMISSION
GAS COMPANY
ARKANSAS RAILROAD
ETv. AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF, ARKANSAS.

No. 500. Argued February 21, 1923.--Decided 1Iarch 19,1923.
1. The power of a State to abrogate private contracts touching the
rates of public utilities exists only as an incidentx to the regulation
of such utilities and their rates in the public interest. P. 382.
2. A statute will be construed if possible to uphold it as constitutional. P. 383.
3. A statute of Arkansas, transferring to the PRilroad Commission
jurisdictin formerly possessed by the Corporation Commission,
including pending cases, but denying power to modify or impair
existing contracts for supplying natural gas,, construed as not
singling out a particular gas company whose claim, that divisional
rates fixed by contract between it and distributers were inadequate,
was pending before the latter Commission. Id.
4. An exception in a statute will not be taken as intended and operating to work an arbitrary discrimination against a particular
party, when it may be construed as a general one and nothing
appears to prove either that there are not other cases within its
purview or that it is based on arbitrary classification. P. 384.
Affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court denying, in

part, an application for a preliminary injunction.
Mr. W. B. Smith, with whom Mr.-J. M. Moore, Mr.
John S. Weller, Mr. John 0. Wicks, Mr. J. Merrick Moore
and Mr. H. M. Trieber were on the briefs, for-appellant:
Mr. E. J. Dimock and Mr. Ashley Cockrill, ,ith whom
Mr. Henry M. Armistead, Mr. Max'Pam, Mr 'Harry

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

Boyd Hurd, Mr. William H. Martin and Mr.Lewis L.
Delafield were on the briefs, for appellees.
MR.JUSTICE SuTHEmRAm

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The appellant brought suit in the District Court, alleging that an order of the Arkansas Railroad Commission
was invalid as establishing confiscatory rates for natural
gas furnished to its consuming customers and as maintaining certain divisional rates, (alleged to be wholly inadequate) fixed by contracts between appellant and the
Little Rock Gas & Fuel Company and the Consumers' Gas
Company. An interlocutory injunction was sought under
ยง 266 of the Judicial Code. The court granted the injunction in respect of the rates to consumers Iut denied it as
to the divisional rates. The appeal brings here for review
only the action of the lower court in the latter respect.
By the divisional contracts referred to, appellant, in
consideration of the payment to it of a stated proportion
of the rates collected, agreed to furnish gas to the two
companies named, to be by them distributed to their
customers in the cities of Little Rock and Hot Springs,
respectively. The gas was to be delivered at the intalie
of the distributing systems for these cities. Appellant asserts that the income afforded by the rates prescribed by
these contracts is so inadequate as to haye the effect of a
virtual confiscation of its property, and that this result is
in large part due to improper and wasteful methods of
distribution on the part of the two distributing companes.
The Commission was asked to fix a flat rate, called a
city gate rate, for the gas delivered at the city borders, the
effect of which, of course, would have been to abrogate
the contract rates based upon a percentage of the collections. Appellant's application was made to. the Arkansas
Corporation Commission, but was decidediby the Railroad

ARKANSAS GAS CO. v. RAILROAD COMM.
379

381

Opinion of tlhe Court.

Commission, to whom the Legislature in the meantime
had transferred jurisdiction. There is no claim that rates
to consumers were affected by these contracts; nor does it
appear that the public interest is involved in the action
which the Commission was asked to take.
The Railroad Commission denied the application primarily upon the ground that the power to grant it had
been expressly- withheld by the act of -the Legislature,
known as Act 443, passed on March 25, 1921 (Acts of
Arkansas, 1921, p. 429), transferring to it the jurisdiction theretofore possessed by the Corporation Commission, and providing that the Railroad Conimission "shall
have no jurisdiction or power to modify or impair any
existing contracts for supplying gas to persons, firms, corporations, municipalities or distributing companies, and
such contracts shall not be affected by this act or the act
of which this is an amendment." The act is copied in the
margin.1
"'All records, papers, furniture and stationery under the control of
the Arkansas Corporation Commission at the time of the passage of
the act, of which this is an amendment, shall be turned over to the
Arkansas Railroad Commission and remain in its custody, and all investigations, proceedings and hearings that were pending before the
Arkansas Corporation Commission at the time of the passage of the
act of which this- is an amendment, and the hearings of which are
embraced within the powers conferred on the Arkansas Railroad
Commission, shall be transferred to the Arkansas Railroad Commission for such consideration, orders and determination as'may be made
by it under the terms of the act of which this is an amendment,
and the petitions pending before the Arkansas Corporation Commission at the time of the passage of the act of which this is an amendment, involving regulations of service and rates for natural gas, and
numbered 417, 418 and 423 on the records of said Arkansas Corporation Commission, are transferred to the Arkansas Railroad Commission for decision and the making of such orders-and rates as may be
appropriate, and the Arkansas Railroad Commission shall consider
the testimony that has heretofore been taken in said cases and hear
such further testimony as may be appropriate to fully present such

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

The question whether, in the absence of the statuteit being made to appear that the stipulated consideration
was grossly inadequate-:-the commission, under the circumstances disclosed by the record, would have been
under-a duty to fix gate rates in contravention of the contracts, may be put aside with brief consideration. While
a State may exercise its legislative power to regulate public utilities and fix rates, notwithstanding the effect may
be to modify or abrogate private contracts (Union Dry
Goods Co. v. Georgia PublicService Corp., 248 U. S. 372,
375; Producers Transportation Co. v. Railroad Comm.,

251 U. S. 228, 232) there is, quite clearly, no principle
cases, and such orders and rates as may be made by the Arkansas
Railroad Commission in the said gas cases shall apply not only to
the service outside of municipalities, but also to the service and rates
for supplying natural gas within municipalities or to distributing
companies operating within such municipalities, except that the
Arkansas Railroad Commission shall have no jurisdiction or power to
modify or impair any existing contracts for supplying gas to persons,
firms, corporations, municipalities or distributing companies, and such
contracts shall not be affected by this act or the act of which this
is an amendment.
"From the decisions of the Arkansas Railroad Commission in such
cases appeals may be prosecuted to the circuit court and Supreme
Court, and- such appeals shall be taken, proceeded in, heard and disposed of as provided in sections 20 and 21 of the act of which this
is an amendment; provided, however, that on the determination of
such natural gas cases by the Arkansas Railroad Commission and the
decision on any appeals therefrom and the making of orders by the
commission in pursuance to orders of the court made on such appeals,
the powers and jurisdiction of the Arkansas Railroad Commission to
regulate these particular utilities and fix their rates shall be such only
as is conferred by other sections of the act of which this is an amendment. In all cases where the Arkansas Corporation Commission made
a final decision or order before the act of which this is an amendment
became effective and the time for an appeal has not elapsed, any
party to said proceedings shall have the right to have the matter
heard on appeal as is provided in sections 20 and 21 of the act of
which this is an amendment."

ARKANSAS GAS CO. v. RAILROAD. COMM.
379

383

Opinion of the Court.

which imposes an obligation to do so merely to relieve a
contracting party from the burdens of an improvident
undertaking. The power to fix-rates, when exerted is for
the public welfare, to which private contracts must.yield;
but it is not an independent legislative function to vary
or set aside such contracts, however unwise and unprofitable they may be. Indeed the exertion of legislative
power solely to that end is precluded by the contract impairment clause of the Constitution. The power does not
exist per se. It is the intervention of the public interest
which justifies and at the same time conditions its -exercise.
But the appellant contends that the -statute violates
the Fourteenth Amendment because it imposes restrictions upon the rate-making power of the commission in
respect of the particular contracts of appellant here in;
volved, which, it is said, are not imposed in the case of
contracts of other utility corporations. In other words,
it is urged that the act singles out the appellant for special restraint in this respect and is, therefore, unequal.
While its meaning is not free from doubt, we do not so
construe the act. The rule is fundamental that if a statute
admits of two constructions, the effect of one being to
render the statute unconstitutional and of the other to
establish its validity, the courts will adopt the latter. St.
Louis Southwestern Ry. Co. v. Arkansas, 235 U. S. 350,
369. The language of this act is general. By its terms
jurisdiction over all proceedings and hearings then pending before the Corporation Commission is transferred to
the Railroad Commission. There follows a provision particularizing certain petitions numbered 417, 418 and 423,
being the cases of appellant, as to which the Railroad
Commission is directed to consider the testimony theretofore taken by the Corporation Commission and to hear
such further testimony as may be appropriate to fully
present such cases. The paragraph then concludes with

384

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

the exception, already quoted, to the effect that the Railroad Commission shall have no power to modify or impair existing corltracts for supplying gas, etc. Considering
the several provisions of the act together, its terms fairly
justify the conclusion that the exception was meant to
apply' to all proceedings pending before the Corporation
Commission transferred to the Railroad Commission and
not alone to the three specified cases. The record contains nothing to indicate the character or number of these
proceedings and nothing to suggest that their grouping or
subjection to the rule of the exception constitutes an unreasonable or arbitrary classification. The reasons which
influenced the classification are not disclosed on the face
of the act, but the mere absence of such disclosure will
not justify the Court in assuming that appropriate reasons
did not in fact exist. The presumption is that the action
of the legislature-which applies alike to all falling within
the class-was with full knowledge of the conditions and
that no arbitrary selection of persons for subjection to the
prescribed rule was intended. See Atchison, Topeka &
Santa Fe R. R. Co. v. Matthews, 174 U. S. 96, 106..
The state legislature is vested with a wide discretion in
the matter and interference by this Court may not be had
merely because its exercise has produced inequalityevery selection of subjects or persons for governmental
regulation does that-but only where it has. produced an
inequality which is actually and palpably unreasonable
and arbitrary. See Bachtel v. Wilson, 204 U. S.36, 41;
Orient Insurance Co. v. Daggs, 172 U. S. 557, 563; Erb v.
Morasch, 177 U. S.584, 586; Missouri, Kansas & Texas
Ry. Co' v. May, 194 U. S. 267, 269; Magoun v. Illinois
Trust & Savings Bank, 170 U. S. 283, 293;- Heisler v.
Thomas Collidry Co., 260 U. S. 245'
Applying the rule established by these and other decisions of this Court, the decree below is
Affirmed.

