24

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Statement of the Case.

261 U. S

and its, failure to protest thereafter and to put the Government on notice that it intended to claim a recovery
on a quantum valebat when it was delivering the extra
two million feet of lumber and receiving the payments
therefor from the Government at the prices named in the
bid. The judgment of the Court of Claims is

Affirmed.
CROWN DIE & TOOL COMPANY v. NYE TOOL &
MACHINE WORKS.
CERTIORARI TO THM CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH: CIRCUIT.

No. 240. Argued January 17, 18, 1923.-Decided February 19, 1923.
1. A suit based on an alleged assignment of a patent right, involving
the validity of the assignment under the patent laws, is within the
jurisdiction of the District Court as a suit arising under those laws.
P. 33.
2. The mere right to exclude others from making, using or vending
a patented invention is not such an interest as may be assigned
under the patent laws, and an attempted transfer thereof as against
a particular person with right to enjoin his future infringements
and collect damages therefor, is void. Pp. 35, 39.
3. An assignment by a patent-owner, not conveying any interest in
the patent itself but only a claim for past damages against infringers, does not confer upon the assignee a right to sue for such
damages in his own name without joining his assignor, who must
also-have been the owner of the patent, when the infringements
were committed. P. 39.
4. The effect of such an assignment depends upon the patent law,
unaffected by Equity Rule 37 providing that suits shall be prosecuted in the name of the real party in interest. P. 44.
276 Fed. 376, reversed.

This was a bill in equity filed in the United States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois by the Nye
Tool and Machine Works, a corporation of Illinois, having

its place of business in Chicago, against the Crown Die

CROWN CO. v. NYE TOOL WORKS.
24

Statement of the Case.

and Tool Company, a corporation of the same State and
doing business in the same city. The plaintiff sought to
enjoin the infringement of a patent for a machine .for
forming screw thread-cutting devices, and for an accounting of profits and for damages. The inventors were
Wright and Hubbard, and the patent issued to t heir
assignee, the Reed Manufacturing Company of Pennsylvania.
The plaintiff based its right to sue on the following instrument which -itterms an assignment:
Ex~rnIT A.
Whereas, Reed Manufacturing Company, a corporation
of Pennsylvania, is the owner of Letters Patent of the
United States, No. 1,033,142, for a Machine for.Forming
Screw-Thread Cutting Devices, granted July 23, 1912, on
an application of Wright and Hubbard; and
Whereas, under said patent said Reed Manufacturing
Company has the right to exclude others from manufacturing, using and selling the devices of said patent; and
Whereas, it is believed by the parties that Crown Die &
Tool Company, a corporation of Illinois, has been manufacturing and using devices in infringement of said patent;
and
Whereas, Nye Tool & Machine Works is engaged in the
manufacture of dies with which the dies made by said
Crown Die & Tool Company, by the use of said infringing
machine, are in competition; and
Whereas, Nye Tool & Machine Works is desirous of
acquiring from Reed Manufacturing Company all of its
rights of exclusioh under said patent, so far as the same
may be exercised against the Crown Die & Tool Company,
together with all rights of the Reed Manufacturing Company against the Crown Die & Tool Company arising out
of the infringement aforesaid:

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Statement of the Case.

261 U. S.

Now, Therefore, in consideration of one thousand dollars ($1,000.00), and other good and valuable considerations, the receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, the
Reed Manufacturing Company hereby assigns and sets
over to the Nye Tool & Machine Works all claims recoverable in law or in equity, whether for damages, profits, savings, or any other kind or description, which the Reed
Manufacturing Company has against the Crown Die &
Tool Company arising out of the ihfringement by the
Crown Die & Tool Company of the Wright & Hubbard
patent No. 1,033,142; and, for the same consideration,
assigns and sets over all the rights which it now has arising from said patent of excluding the Crown Die & Tool
Company from the practice of the invention of said patent, the intention being that, in so far as concerns the
exclusion of the Crown Die & Tool Company under said
patent, the Nye Tool & Machine Works shall be vested
with as full rights in the premises as the Reed Manufacturing Company would have had had this assignment not
been made; and that the Nye Tool & Machin6 Works shall
have the full right to bring suit on said patent, either at
law or in equity against said Crown Die & Tool Company,
and for its own benefit, to exclude the Crown Die & Tool
Company from practicing the invention of said patent,
and for its own use and benefit to collect damages which
may arise by reason of the future infringement of said
patent by the Crown Die & Tool Company, but nothing
herein contained shall in any way affect or alter the rights
of the Reed Manufacturing Company against other than
the Crown Die &Tool Company; and, for the same consideration, all rights as are herein given against the Crown
Tool & Die Company are given as against any successor
or assignee of the business thereof.
REED MANUFACTURING CoOMPANY,

By P. D. Wright,
Its President.

CROWN CO. v. NYE TOOL WORKS.
24

27

Statement of the Case.

The defendant moved to dismiss the bill as follows:
Now comes the defendant, Crown Die and Tool Company, by its solicitor, and moves the Court to dismiss the
Bill of Complaint instituted in the above entitled cause
upon grounds and reasons therefor as follows1. That the Bill of Complaint states an alleged cause
of action arising out of the assumed infringement of a patent in which plaintiff has no title, and prays an injunction,
and accounting and damages.
2. That the owner of the entire or any part of the legal
title to the patent sued on is not made a party to the.
suit.
3. That the legal effect of the alleged assignment set
up as the basis of this cause of action and forming part
of the Bill of Complaint herein is contrary to the statutes
covering suits for infringement of patents, and shows on
its face that the plaintiff has no interest in the patent
sued on.
4. That the Bill of Complaint herein, including the
alleged assignment, evidences a conspiracy against this
defendamt by the parties to the document identified as
"Exhibit A," in which the plaintiff and the Reed Mfg.
Company assumed the function of the Court in having
already decreed that this defendant infringes Patent No.
1,033,142, and now seeks to utilize this Court to annoy and harass the Crown Die and Tool Company by
instituting legal proceedings when no right of action
exists.
5. That "Exhibit A" attached
to the Bill of Complaint
in this case purports only to convey to plaintiff all claims
recoverable in law or in equity whih the Reed Mfg. Co.
may have against the .Crown Die and Tool Co., over
which subject matter this Court has no jurisdiction.
6. Prior suit pending, between the same parties in this
Court, decision of which will determine any questions
involved in this case.

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Respondent.

261 U. S.

Therefore this defendant respectfully moves the Court
to dismiss said Bill of Complaint with its reasonable costs
and charges in its behalf most wrongfully sustained.
CRowN DIE & TooL Co.,

By FLORENCE KING,
Solicitor for Defendant.
The District Judge in the interest of expedition granted
the motion to dismiss in order that the main question, i. e.,
the plaintiff's right to sue, might be determined by the
Circuit Court of Appeals before the expense of an accounting should be incurred, although he thought the plaintiff
had acquired the right under the instrument. 270 Fed.
587. The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the decree
of dismissal, holding the instrument to be a valid assignment of an interest in the patent conferring the right to
sue and remanded the cause to the District Court for an
accounting and further proceedings. 276 Fed. 376.
Although the decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals
is not final, the importance of the question involved and
the possible saving of useless litigation led this Court to
grant the writ of certiorari before further proceedings in
the District Court.
Florence King for petitioner.
Mr. Russell Wiles, with whom Mr. W. H. Dyrenforth
and Mr. George A. Chritton were on the brief, for respondent.
The entry of decrees, professedly contrary to the judicial judgment of the Chancellor and for the sole purpose
of permitting an appeal not otherwise authorized, is entirely subversive of the statutes relative to appeals and is
open to even more severe criticism than that of entering
pro forma decrees. Ex parte Harley-Davidson Motor
Co., 259 U. S. 414.
All that a patentee can acquire from the Government
is the right to exclude others. Bloomer v. McQuewan, 14

CROWN CO. v. NYE TOOL WORKS.
24

Argument for Respondent.

How. 539, 548;' Patterson v. Kentucky, 97 U. S. 501;
Fuller v. Berger, 120 Fed. 274; Continental Paper Bag
Co. v. Eastern Paper Bag Co., 210 U. S. 405. It .would
seem to follow that an assignee could buy nothing more,
and shpuld be required to buy'nothing more, in order to
maintain a suit. Only recently, in United Shoe Machinery Corp. v. United States, 258 U. S.451, this Court reasserted the proposition that the patent grant is nothing
but the right to exclude.
The suggestion that the natural right to make, use and
vend, or some part of it, and the right to exclude must coexist in the plaintiff before suit can be brought, is clearly
unsound both on principle and precedent. IA Patterson
v. Kentucky, supra, the natural right was extinguished
by the state law while the patentee was recognized as
being vested with the patent monopoly which it remained the duty of the courts to preserve and protect.
Today there are hundreds, if not thousands, o existing
patents upon processes for the manufacture of alcoholic
liquors. The natural right of each patentee has been extinguished by the Eighteenth Amendment and the statutes enacted thereunder, yet it is manifest that each patentee could maintain suit against an infringer and would
in no sense be deprived of his patent rights because the
infringer is a law breaker.
A common case of the complete separation of the natural right from the right to exclude is that created when a
patentee grants to some one else the exclusive right to
make, use and sell with such limitations as to leave the
legal title in the patentee. In such a case (under the old
rules) the licensee might sue in the name of the licensor
to protect his own interest, but the licensor could sue alone
to recover his damages. He may have a substantial interest in the recovery and in excluding unlicensed manufacture because infringing competition with the licensee
cuts down the licensor's royalties. His rights as a liti-

30

OCTOBER TERM, 1922
Argument for Respondent.

261 U. S.

gant are clearly sustained in Kaiser v. General Phonograph Supply (Jo., 171 Fed. 432, in which case, however,
the licensee was also a party.
It is equally apparent that the grantee of a territorial
interest may sue fgr infringement committed within his
territory, even though for other reasons, physical or legal,
it is impossible for him to exercise his natural right.
The most common case of the separation of the patent
and natural rights is where the structure of the patent in
suit is dominated by some other and broader patent.
The broader patent may be older or younger or of the
same date with the narrower patent. In either case, for
the whole life of the broader patent, and this may be the
whole life of the narrower patent as well, the patentee-of
the narrower patent has no natural right to make, use or
sell the structure of his own patent. Any suggestion that
the plaintiff in a patent suit must have the natural right
to make, use and sell in addition to the patent right would
dreate an entirely new' defense to patent cases, would
make it impossible for the owner of the narrower patent
to sue with a broad patent in force, and would immensely
complicate patent litigation.
The exclusive right and the natural right flow from
different sources, are of different kinds and need'not coexist. It is impossible to maintain any clean-cut line of
patent law unless we totally divorce the two rights, and,
in discussing the patent right, assume that the natural
right is immaterial. It may be non-existent or sus•pended; exercised, not' exercised, or even misused, and the
status of the plaintiff will be the same.
This would seem to be necessary on principle, since the
patentee who gets from the Government only the right
to exclude would be in a sad position were ,his franchise
to be extinguished~with changing conditions affecting a
natural right concerning which the Federal Government
is entirely uninterested and over which it has no control.

CROWN CO. v. NYE TOOL.WORKS.
24

Argument for Respondent.

The natural right, in the main, is a creature of state laws
and it must be disregarded from every aspect in considering the franchise granted by the Federal Government.
Having thus established the nature of the franchise
granted by the patent, it would seem that under § 4898,
Rev. Stats., providing that any patent or any interest
therein shall be assignable in law by an instrument in
writing, the patentee would have a right to split his right
to exclusion along any lines he chooses.
The Reed Manufacturing Company had the right to
exclude the Crown Company and the right to collect past
and future damages and profits. It certainly had the right
to sell its claim for past damages. Why it should not
sell the right to future damagei, if any, we do not see.. In
a case of a continuing. trespass the owner of the chose
theoretically ought to be able to sell not only his past but
his future claims. But what has become of the Reed
Company's right to exclude defendant? It has not been
extinguished and it rests either with -the Reed Company
or with the plaintiff.. The Reed Company has tried to
sell it, has taken good money for it, and is in no position as
between the parties ever to assert that it owns this right.
If it has carried out its'purpose, then the'plaintiff has'all.
the title necessary to maintain this suit. If not, -abona
fide salek of a valuable right is to be prohibited at the instance of a wrongdoer totally unaffected by it and contrary to the desires of both the parties interested.
This matter does not concern either the public or the
defendant because, whoever owns the patent, defendant
has no right to infringe and at some time (to some one)
should account.
The general rule, of course, is that all choses are assignable which would not abate at death but would fall to the
estate. Expectancies even are assignable in equity, and
certainly there is such expectation that an infringer will
coiltinue as to justify an assignment of future damages.

32

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Respondent.

261 U. S.

The suggestion that assignments like this would lead
to a multiplicity of suits is without weight. There can
never be more suits on a patent than there are infringers.
A judgment in this suit for the defendant would be res
judicata.
The outstanding requirement of public policy is that
infringement shall not exist and that infringerschall not
keep their profits. Public policy is not affected by nice
questions of title.
The true distinction between licenses and interests in
a patent is this: The patent grants a threefold right to
exclude from manufacture, from use, and from sale. All
instruments which have conveyed the threefold right in
the whole invention have been held transfers of an interest, while those conveying only one or two of these rights,
or all of them in only some species of the patented invention, have been held licenses. Fundamentally, we believe
the effort has been to prevent the possibility of two suits
on the same patent against a single infringer, one by the
owner of a part of the power of exclusion, and the other
by the owner of the remainder. This distinction runs
through all the cases.
This and other courts have repeatedly stated, arguendo,
that there are only three kinds of assignments of interests,
. e., assignments of the entire interest, assignments of an
undivided interest, and assignments of a territorial interest, and that everything else is a license. The' assertion, however, that there are only three kinds of assignments is dictum, for the real question before the court in
each case is whether a particular instrument was a license
and in every case the license lacked what is here present,
a complete conveyance to the plaintiff of every right under
the patent which was or could-be litigated in any suit by
a particular defendant.
The situation is clearly one where a suit by the Reed
Company for the use.of the plaintiff would lie under the

CROWN CO. v. NYE TOOL WORKS.
24

Opinion of the Couit.

old Equity Rules. The new rules abolish such suits and
permit the beneficial owner to sue in its own name. It
would, therefore, seem to follow that if the assignment is
only a declaration of trust, and is totally ineffective as a
legal transfer, nevertheless plaintiff may maintain its case.
It is especially to be noted that from time immemorial
equity has protected the sale of choses in action even when
their validity was seriously questioned on the law side.
MR. CHIEF JuSTICE T w, after stating the case as
above, delivered the opinion of the Court.

The petitioner raises a question of jurisdiction. It says
that the suit does not arise under the patent laws of the
United States, but is merely a suit on a contract like one
for royalties under a license of which the District Court
could not have jurisdiction because the parties are both
citizens ofthe same State. To sustain this argument are
cited Albright v. Teas, 106 U. S.613; Pratt v. Paris Gas
Light Co., 168 U. S. 255, and Excelsior Wooden Pipe Co.
v. Pacific Bridge Co., 185 U. S. 282. The cases have no
application and the point is without merit. The bill in
this case is based on an assignment of a patent claimed
to be valid under the statutes of the United States, and
asking the protection of the patent right thus assigned
by injunction and an accounting. It, therefore, involves
the validity of the assignment of a patent, which is a
question arising under the patent laws because it depends
upon their construction, and if the assignment is valid,
the suit is just an ordinary suit for injunction and profits
dependent on the validity of the patent and its infringement under those same laws. There is no question of
royalties by contract in the case.
The main question is an interesting one. The argument of counsel for the respondent and the one upon
which the Circuit Court of Appeals proceeded to its con-

34

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

clusion is that the right which the patentee derives from
the Government by its grant is not the right to make,
use and vend; that such a right is a so-called natural right
not dependent on statute but arises under the common
law and has no peculiar federal source or protection other
than any other right of liberty or property. All that the
Government grants and protects is the power to exclude
others from making, using, or vending during the grant
of seventeen years. Under the patent law, § 4898 Rev.
Stats., a patentee may assign by an instrument in writing
his patent or any interest therein. It is argued that as
the patent is only the power to exclude all from making,
using and vending, the power to exclude some particular
person from doing so is a part, of that power of exactly the
same nature, and therefore is a definite interest in the
patent that can be assigned.
The analysis of the rights which a patentee acquires
under the grant is sustained by a line of authorities.
Bloomer v. McQuewan, 14 How. 539, 548; Patterson v.
Kentucky, 97 U. S. 501; United States v. American Bell
Telephone Co., 167 U. S. 224, 249; Bement v. National
Harrow Co., 186 U. S. 70, 90; Continental Paper.Bag Co.
v. EasternPaperBag Co., 210 U. S. 405; Heaton-Peninsular Co. v. Eureka Specialty Co., 77 Fed. 288, 294; Fullerv.
Berger, 120 Fed. 274. The fullest and most satisfactory
discussion of the subject is found in Continental Paper
Bag Co. v. EasternPaperBag Co., supra. In that case it
was sought to defeat a suit by a patent-owner for infringement of a patent on the ground that he was not entitled
to ask a court of equity to aid him in protecting the grant
of the patent to him by the Government, because he had
failed and neglected ever to use the patent himself or to
allow anybody else to do so and therefore had not rendered
to the public the benefit and consideration for which the
patent was granted. This Court held that the benefit
which the Government intended to secure was not the

CROWN CO. v. NYE TOOL WORKS.
24

Opinion of the Court.

making or use of the patent for the benefit of the public
during the seventeen years of' the grant except as the
patentee might voluntarily confer it from motives 'of
gain, but only the benefit of its public use after the grant
expired. The Court held that the Govermnent did not
confer on the patentee the right himself to make, use or
vend his own invention, that such right was a right under
the common law not arising under the federal patent
laws and not within the grant of power to Congress to
enact such laws, and that 'in the absence of the express
statutory imposition upon the patentee of the obligation
to make, use or vend his patented invention as a condition of receiving his patent, it would not be implied. The
Court further held that in its essence all that the Government conferred by the patent was the right to exclude
others from making, using or vending his invention.
We d6 not think, however, that these clearly established principles sustain the next step in the reasoning of
the counsel for the respondent and the Circuit Court of
Appeals, which is that they make the mere right to exclude persons from the making, using and vending of an
invention such an interest in a patent that it can be assigned. It ignores the indispensable condition of the
granting and establishment of a patent right and patent
property that the patentee shall have himself the common
law right of making, using and vending the invention.
The sole reason and purpose of the constitutional grant
to Congress to enact patent lawrs is to promote the progr.ess of science and useful arts by securing for limited
times to inventors the exchisive right to their respective
discoveries.. Article I, § 8, clause 8. In pursuance thereof,
§ 4886, Rev. Stats., as amended, 29 Stat. 692, provides
that any person who has invented or discovered any new
.and useful art, machine, manufacture or composition of
matter or any new or useful improvements thereof, upon.
certain conditions not important here, may obtain a pat-

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

ent therefor. Section 4884, Rev. Stats., directs that the
grant of a patent shall be to the patentee, his heirs or
assigns, for the term of seventeen years, of the exclusive
right to make, use and vend the invention or discovery
throughout the United States. An inventor may in writing assign his invention and the right to a patent before
the patent is granted, and under § 4895, Rev. Stats., a
patent will issue to the assignee. Can it be claimed that
an assignment of the right to exclude all from making,
using and vending and excepting therefrom the right to
make, use and vend in the assignee, would be such an
assignment as would justify the Patent Office in issuing
the patent under the statute to the assignee? Yet if all
that there is in a patent property is the bare right to exclude others from making, using or vending some thing,
the patent should issue in such a case.
The error in the position of the respondent and the
court below is in a failure to distinguish between the
property or title or interest in a patent capable of assignment and the chief incident of that property, title or interest, an incident which can only pass by assignment
when attached to the right to make, use and vend. It is
the fact that the patentee has invented or discovered
something useful and thus has the common law right to
make, use and vend it himself which induces the Government to clothe him with power to exclude everyone else
from making, using or vending it. In other words, the
patent confers on such common law right the incident of
exclusive enjoyment and it is the common law right with
this incident which a patentee or an assignee must have.
That is the implication of the descriptive words of the
grant "the exclusive right to make, use and vend the invention." The Government is not granting the common
law right to make, use and vend, but it is granting the incident of exclusive ownership of that common law right,
which can not be enjoyed save with the common law right.

CROWN CO. v. NYE TOOL WORKS.
24

37

Opinion of the Court.

A patent confers a monopoly. So this Court has decided
in the Paper Bag Case, supra, and in many other cases.
The idea of monopoly held by one in making, using and
vending connotes the right in him to do that thing from
which he excludes others.
Dealing with the question of patent assignments under
the laws of the United States, Mr. Justice Qray, in Waterman v. Mackenzie, 138 U. S. 252, 255, said:
"The monopoly thus granted is one entire thing, and
cannot be divided into parts, except as authorized by
those laws. The patentee or his assigns may, by instrument in writing, assign, grant and convey, either, 1st, the
whole patent, comprising the exclusive right to make, use
and vend the invention -throughout the United States; or,
2d, an undivided part or share of that exclusive right;
or, 3d, the exclusive right under the patent within and
throughout a specified part of the United States, Rev.
Stat. § 4898. A transfer of either of these,three kinds of
interests is an assignment, properly speaking, and vests
in the assignee a title in so much of the patent itself, with
a right to sue infringers; in the second case,.jointly with
the assignor; in the first and third cases, in the name of
the assignee alone. Any assignment or transfer, short of
one of these, is a mere license, giving the licensee no title
in the patent, and no right to sue at law in his own name
for an infringement. Rev. Stat. § 4919; Gayler v.
Wilder, 10 How. 477, 494, 495; Moore v. Marsh, 7 Wall.
515."
The learned Justice then prQceeds (page 256) to give
examples of what would and would not constitute an
assignment. A grant of an exclusive right to make, use
and vend two patented machines within a certain district,
he points out, citing Wilson v. Rousseau, 4 How. 646, 686,
is an assignment because the right, although limited to
making, using and vending two machines, excludes all
other persons, even the patentee, from making, using or

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the-Court.

261 U. S.

vending like machines within the district. "On the other
hand ", he says, "the grant of an exclusive right under
the patent within a certain district, which does not include the right to make, and the right to use, and the rght
to sell, is not a grant of a title in the whole patent right
within the district, and is therefore only a license."'
In Gayler v. Wilder, 10 How. 477, it was held that the
grant of an exclusive right to make and vend an article
within a certain territory upon paying to the assignor a
cent per pound, reserving to the assignor the right to use
and manufacture the article by paying the assignee a cent
per pound, was: only a license and that a suit for the
infringement of the patent right must be brought in the
name of the assignor. The effect of the opinion in that
case is that the monopoly granted the patentee is for one
entire thing and in order to enable an assignee to sue he
must have received the entire and unqualified monopoly
in the territory specified. Chief Justice Taney's reason
for this (p. 494) is useful in this case. "For ", said he,
"it was obviously not the intention of the legislature to
permit several monopolies to be made out of one, and
divided among different persons within the same limits.
Such a division would inevitably lead to fraudulent impositions upon persons who desired to purchase the use
of the improvement, and would subject a party who,
under a mistake as to his rights, used the invention without authority, to be harassed by a multiplicity of suits
instead of one, and to successive recoveries of damages
by different persons holding different portions of the
patent right in the same place." See also Pope Manufacturing Co. v. Gormully & Jeffery Manufacuring Co., 144
U. S. 238, 250.
These cases do not present the same iacts as the one
before us; but they indicate clearly what view the courts
deciding them would have taken of an effort like that in
the case at bar to divide up the monopoly of patent prop-

CROWN CO. v. NYE TOOL WORKS.
24

Opinion of the Court.

erty so that the patentee retains the right to make, use
and vend, but gives to many different individuals the
right to sue certain named infringers, respectively, and
that with the Sole motive .of harassing them such as is
avowed in the recitals of the instrument before us. If
held legal, it would give the patentee an opportunity
without expense to himself to stir up litigation by third
persons that is certainly contrary to the purpose and
spirit of the statutory provisions for the assigning of
patents.
Nor do we think that the principle of Pattersonv. Kentucky, 97 U. S. 501, or the instance of a patent for.an
improvement on a machine, patent for Which is.held by
another, involves anything inconsistent with our conclusion that the right to exclude others conferred in a patent
can only be conferred upon one who has the common law
right to use, make and vend. In Pattersonv. Kentucky,
the patentee had the common law right to make, use and
vend, but the State of Kentucky exercising her lawful
police power restricted him in it. In the case of the
patelitee for improvement on a patented machine, the'
patentee has the- right, to make, use and vend the improvement, but he cannot make it profitable or useful
unless he can, secure the right to put it on to another
machine.
For the reasons given, we think the attempted assignment in this case carried no part of the title to the patent
or interest in it and therefore conferred no right to sue
for damages for infringement of the patent "after the
execution of the instrument.
The remaining question is whether the instrument
relied on by the plaintiff below gave it the right to sue
in its own name in this case for damages for past infringements. We think not.
The plaintiff below could not bring such a suit for past
infringements without joining with it the owner of the

40

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

patent when the infringements were committed. It is
said that the claim of an owner of a patent for damages
for infringements is only a chose in action which in modem days may be so assigned that the assignee acquires
full title and the right to sue at law as well as in equity
without joining his assignor. This view ignores the
peculiar character of patent property and the recognized
rules for the transfer of its ownership and its incidents.
Patent property is the creature of statute law and its
incidents are equally so and depend upon the construction
to be given to the statutes creating it and them, in view of
ihe policy of Congress in their enactment. This is shown
by the opinion of this Court in Waterman v. Mackenzie,
138 U. S. 252, already cited, and in the line of authorities
followed therein. It is not safe, therefore, in dealing
with a transfer of rights under the batent law, to follow
implicitly tie rules governing a transfer of rights in a
chose in action at common law. As Chief Justice Taney
said in Gayler v. Wilder, 10 How. 477, 494:
"The monopoly did not exist at common law, and the
rights, therefore, which may be exercised under it cannot
be regulated by the rules of the common law. It is created
by the act of Congress; and no rights can be acquired in
it unless authorized by statute, and in the manner the
statute prescribes."
The law as to who should bring a suit at law for damages by infringement of a patent is clearly and correctly
stated in III Robinson on Patents, § 937, as follows:
"With a single exception the plaintiff in an action at
law must be the person or persons in whom the legal
title to the patent resided at the time of the infringement.
An infringement is an invasion of the monopoly created
by the patent, and the law which defines and authorizes
this monopoly confers only upon its legal owners the
right to institute proceedings for its violation. These
owners are the patentee, his assignee, his grantee, or his

CROWN CO. v. NYE TOOL WORKS.
24

41

Opinion of the Court.

personal representatives; and none but these are able to
maintain an action for infringement in a court of law.
Moreover, the injury inflicted by an act of infringement
falls upon the individual who owns the monopoly at the
date of the infringement. It does not affect former
owners whose interest had terminated before the infringement was committed, nor does it so directly prejudice a
future owner that the law can recognize his loss and give
him a pecuniary redress. Hence the plaintiff must not
only have a legal title to the patent, but must have also
been its owner at the time of the infringement. The
exception above referred to arises where an assignment
of a patent is coupled with an 'assignment of a right of
action for past infringements. In this case the present
owner of the monopoly may institute proceedings for its
violation during the ownership of his assignor as well as
for infringements committed since the transfer of the
title to himself."
. In Moore v. Marsh, 7 Wall. 515, the question was
whether a sale and assignment by a patentee of his patent right was, under the fourteenth section of the Patent
Act of 1836, c. 357, 5 Stat. 117, 123, now embodied in
§ 4919 of the Revised Statutes, a bar to an action by him
to recover damages for an infringement committed before
such sale and transfer. The section provided:
"And such damages may be recovered by action on the
case, in any court of competent jurisdiction, to be brought
in the name or names of the person or persons interested,
whether as patentees, assignees, or as grantees of the
exclusfve right within and throughout a specified part of
the United States."
The neat issue in that case was whether "the name
or names of the person or persons interested" meant the
person interested when the infringement took place or
when the suit was brought. The Court held that it meant
the person who was patentee, assignee, or grantee when

42

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U.S.

the infringement occurred and the cause of action accrued. The Court held, therefore, that the proper plaintiff in a suit for past infringements was not the present
owner of the patent, and that he did not acquire the
right to bring suits for prior infringements merely by
the conveyance of the full title to the patent and its enjoyment. This case was followed by that of Gordon v.
Anthony, on the Circuit, reported in 16 Blatchf. 234;
s.c. 10 Fed, Cas. 773, No. 5,605. The decision was by
Blatchford, Circuit Judge of the Second Circuit, who had
been district judge and who subsequently became a Justice of this Court and had great experience in the administration of the patent law.
The question before him was whether the vendee and
assignee of a receiver appointed by a state court of New
York in proceedings supplementary to execution on a
judgment against a debtor whose assets included a patent
right and who was directed by the court to convey the
same to the receiver but did not do so, could sue for damages for infringement of the patent occurring before the
receivership. After saying that under the law of 1836
and under the Revised Statutes in which the sections of
that law were embodied, no one could bring a suit either
at law or in equity for infringement of a patent in his
own name alone unless he were patentee, assignee, or
grantee, the Judge continues:
"A claim to recover profits or damages for past infringement can not be severed from the title by assignment or
grant, so as to give a right of action for such claim, in disregard of the statute. The profits or damages for infringement cannot be sued for except on the basis of title
as patentee, or as such assignee or grantee, to the whole
or a part of the patent, and not on the basis merely of the
assignment of a right to a claim for profits and damages,
severed from such title. Therefore, if, in the present case,
no such assignment or grant has been made to the de-

CROWN CO. v. NYE TOOL WORKS.
24

43

Opinion of the Court.

fendants as the statute contemplates, they could not bring
suit, in their own names, under the assignment made to
them, to recover any claims, profits or damages for infringement, which belonged to Gordon, [i. e., the patentee], nor can they use the assignment as a defence
against any such claims existing against themselves in
favor of Gordon. In this case there has been no assignment executed by Gordon."
See also Ball v. Coker, 168 .Fed.304, 307. Counsel for
plaintiff cites Haywardv. Andrews, 12,Fed. 786, to maintain the contrary and to sustain the right of the assignee
of claims for past infringements to maintain suit. The
case cited is not in point, the assignee in that case held
the legal title to the patent.
The sole exception to the rule that only he who is the
owner of the patent at the time of the infringement can
sue for damages, to which Professor Robinson refers, is
when such owner assigns the patent and also the claim for
past infringements to the same person. In such a case,
as the title and ownership of the claims are united, it is
held that the owner may sue. Dibble v. Augur, 7 Blatchf.
86; 7 Fed. Cas. 642, No. 3,879; Hamiltonv. Rollins, 5 Dill.
495; 11 Fed. Cas. 364, No. 5,988; Henry v. .Fyancestown
Soap-Stone Stove Co., 2 Ban. & A. 221; 11 Fed. Cas.
1,180, No. 6,382; Consolidated Oil Well Packer Co. v.
Eaton, Cole & Burnham Co., 12 Fed. 865, 870; Spring v.
Domestic Sewing-Machine Co., 13 Fed. 446, 449; Nellis v.
Pennock Mfg. Co., 38 Fed. 379. Under this exception,
therefore, if the instrument here relied on had been
effective to make the plaintiff an assignee or grantee of the
patent or "of any interest therein" within the meaning
of § 4898, Rev. Stats., as amended, then the plaintiff
could have maintained this action for damages for infringements prior to the execution of the instrument; but,:
as we hold, the instrument did not have this effect.
But it is urged that under Equity Rule 37 every action

44

OCTOBER. TERM, 1922.
Opihion of the Court.

261 U. S.

must be prosecuted in the name of the real party in interest, and, therefore, as the plaintiff is the beneficial
owner of the claims for past infringements, it should be
permitted to sue in a court of equity. The equity rule
was not intended to set aside a policy and rule having its
source in the patent statutes and can not affect this case.
The rule laid down by Circuit Judge Blatchford in Gordon
v. Anthony, supra, applied to both actions in equity and
law and grew out of the sections of statutes quoted by him
and not since amended. Both at law and in equity, either
the owner of the patent at the time of the past infringement, or the subsequent owner of the patent who is at the
same time the assignee of the claims for past infringement;
must be a party to a suit for damages for the past infringement. If the owner of the patent when -the
infringements took place has assigned his patent to one,
and his claims for damages for infringement to another,
then the latter can not sue at law at all but must compel
his assignor of the claims to sue for him. In equity both
such assignor and the assignee who is the real party in
interest must join as plaintiffs. Such assignor is a necessary party and a bill for accounting and damages is fatally
defective otherwise. III Robinson on Patents, § 1099;
Dibble v. Augur, 7 Blatchf. 86; 7 Fed. Cas. 642, No. 3,879;
Gamewell Fire-Alarm Telegraph Co. v. City.of Brooklyn,
14 Fed. 255; Ball v. Coker, 168 Fed. 304. As the owner
of the patent is not a party to this bill, the result is that
on no ground can the bill of the plaintiff be sustained and
that the motion t6 dismiss should have been granted.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed
and that of the District Court is affirmed.

