VALLEY FARMS CO. v. WE$TCHESTER. 155
149

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

434, 436, 437; Pacific Gas & Electric Co. v. Police Couirt,
251 U. S. 22, 25, 26; Milwaukee ElectricRy. Co. v. Milwaukee, 252 U. -S. 100, 104.

Affirmed.

VALLEY FARMS

COMPANY

OF YONKERS* v.

COUNTY OF WESTCHESTER.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF N EW YORK.

No. 136.

Argued January 24; 1923.-Decided February, 19; 1923.

1. A state legislature may without notice to property owners establish a sewer district and direct that the cost of the sewer be assessed upon the real proierty within the district in proportion to
its value as ascertained for purposes of general'taxation. P. 162.
2. It is not a valid objection to such an assessment, undir the Fourteenth Amendment, that the property assessed can receive no direct
benefit, where it ultimately may be benefited by future extensions
of the sewer. P. 163.
3. Nor is it of importance from the constitutional standpoint that
the sewer had been completed before the boundaries of the district were established. P. 164.
4. Where the state law gives the property owner an opportunity
to be heard upon the valuation of his 'property for general taxation, he is not entitled under the Amendment to a further hearing
on that subject when such valuations are used as bases for apportioning special assessments. P. 164.
193 App. Div. 433; 231 N. Y. 558, affirmed.

ERRoR! to a judgment of the Supreme Court of New
York, Appellate Division,. entered on mandate of affirmance from the Court of Appeals, and directing 'dismissal of the complaint in an action brought by the
present plaintiff in error to'declare void 'a special tax
assessment and to restrain its collection.
Mr. Robert C. Beatty for plaintiff in,
error.
Plaintiff in error has a constitutional right to notice
and hearing as to the apportionment of the assessments

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

261 U. S.

upon its property; and the act in fixing those burdens by
general rule without notice and hearing and without regard to special benefit is unconstitutional. Turner v.
Wade, 254 U. S. 64; Central of GeorgiaRy. Co. v. Wright,
207 U. S. 127; Spencer v. Merchant, 100 N. Y. 585; affd.
125 U. S. 345; Matter of Trustees of Union College, 129
N. Y. 308; French v. Barber Asphalt Paving Co., 181
U. S. 324; Hancock v. Muskogee, 250 U. S. 454.
The act is unconstitutional in that it deprives the plaintiff in error of its property without just compensation and
without due process of law, because it assesses such property equally with all other property within the assessment
area for the whole cost. of the sanitary outlet sewer and
the whole cost of the sanitary trunk sewer, whereas the
property of the plaintiff in error can make no use Whatever of such sanitary trunk sewer, eleven and three-quarters miles in length, and only a partial use of about onehalf of the length of the sanitary outlet sewer, about
three miles in length. Such partial use even as to most of
its property can only begin upon the construction of a
trunk sewer about four miles in length and costing over
$300,000. Gast Realty & Investment Co. v. Schneider
Granite Co., 240 U. S. 55; Kansas City Southern Ry. Co.
v. Road Improvement District No. 6, 256 U. S. 658;
Thomas v. Kansas City Southern Ry. Co., 277 Fed. 708;
Myles Salt Co. v. Iberia-DrainageDistrict,239 U. S. 478.
Hancock v. Muskogee, 250 U. S. 454; and Miller & Lux
v. Sacramento Drainage District, 256 U. S. 129, distinguished.
In each. of the cases principally relied upon by the
defendant in error, the Court has carefully pointed out,
in holding the particular act or ordinance constitutional,
that if an act works an arbitrary injustice to a complaining property owner by imposing upon his property an
unjust and unequal assessment wholly disproportioned to
the benefits conferred, it is unconstitutional. See also

VALLEY FARMS CO. v. WESTCHESTER. 157
155

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

Clark v. Dunkirk, 12 Hun, 181; 75 N. Y. 612; O'ReiUy
v. Common Council, 53 App. Div. 58; Matter of City of
New York,-218 N. Y. 234; Keim v. Desmond, 186.N. Y.
232; Providence Retreat v. Buffalo, 29 App. Div. 160;
Kellogg v. Elizabeth, 40 N. J. L. 274; In r.e West Marginal Way, 192 Pac. 961; Morris v. Bayonne; 53 N. I. L.
299; Witman v. Reading City, 169.Pa. St. 375; Barton
v. Kansas City, 110 Mo. App. 31.
The assessments are wholly disproportioned to benefits
in that they are based solely upon the assessments for
general taxation, which results in the arbitrary adoption
of the value of the lots as they may happen to be laid
out upon the tax maps without regard to frontage or
depth, or the distance from the sewer of, large tracts
assessed as one lc t. Gast Realty Case, supra; Howell v.
Tacoma, 3 Wash. 711.
The assessments are wholly disproportioned to benefits
in that the assessments upon improved property are
based on the assessed value of lands and buildings, while
those on vacant property are based on the assessed value
of the land. Boston v. Shaw, 1 Metc. 130; Howell V.
Tacoma, supra. Sewer taxes assessed upon the value of
lots without the improvements upon them have been
held valid. Snow v. Fitchburg, 136 Mass. 183; Gilmore
v. Hentig, 33 Kans. 156; Douglass v. Craig,4 Kans. App.
99; Dillon, Municipal Corporations, 5th ed., ยง 1463, and
notes.
The act as amended requires the supervisors of the
County of Westchester to adopt a budget for the Bronx
Valley sanitary sewer district and to determine, the aggregate amount to be collected by the assessments for
each year; such amount to include unconstitutional and
unlawful items such as a contingent fund to meet deficiencies of revenue and the cost of all litigation now or
hereafter incurred. DeWitt v. Rutherford, 57 N. J. L.
619; West Third Street Sewer Appeal, 187 Pa. St. 565;

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

Erie v. Russell, 148 Pa. St. 384; Hammett v. Philadelphia, 65 Pa. St. 146.
The Act of 1905 as amended up to the year 1917 provided for the fixing of the area for assessments by the
commissioners appointed under such act and such area
was fixed with opportunity to the property owners to be
heard after notice to them. The work was entirely completed in 1913. Notwithstanding the fixing of the rights
and liabilities of all property owners, the Legislature in
1917 swept away these rights and attempted to substitute
a different assessment area described by metes and
bounds. In so providing the constitutional rights of the
property owners were disregarded.
A law much simpler and clearer in its provisions was
characterized as "a farrago of irrational irregularities"
by Mr. Justice Holmes in Gast Realty & Investment Co.
v. Schneider Granite Co., supra.
The case of Horton v. Andrus, 191 N. Y. 231, in which
certain constitutional questions were raised in reference
to the original act, c. 646, Laws of 1905, did not determine
the issues raised in this case which relate to the provisions of the amendments to the act.
-The relief prayed for is properly granted in this form
of action.
Mr. William A. Davidson, with whom Mr. Charles M.
Carter was on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR.JUSTIcE McREYNoIws delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Plaintiff in error, a New York corporation, seeks cancellation of an assessment of taxes upon its real property
to pay for construction and operation of the Bronx Valley
sewer. Westchester County, a necessary party under the
local statute, demurred to the complaint upon the ground
that it states no eause of action. The trial court over-

VALLEY FARMS CO. v. WESTCHESTER. 159
155

Opinion of the Court.

ruled the demurrer. The Appellate Division reversed the
judgment-193 App. Div. 433-and the Court of Appeals
affirmed this action, without opinion-231 N. Y. 558.
The complaint alleges-Plaintiff in error owns certain designated lands in West-,
chester County assessed for taxes for the year 1918 for the
benefit of the Bronx Valley sewer.
That under c. 646, New York Laws of 1905, entitled
"An Act to provide for the construction and maintenance
of a sanitary trunk sewer and sanitary outlet sewer in the
county of Westchester, and to provide means for the payment therefor," and sundry amendments thereto, especially c. 646, Laws of 1917, the-Legislature attempted to
designate the area benefited by the trunk and outlet
sewers and to provide for taxing all property therein.
The trunk sewer is 1134 miles long, the outlet sewer 3
miles. Both are wholly within Westchester County. The
former lies along the Bronx River. At a point near the
south line of the county it connects with the outlet sewer
which extends thence westwardly under two high ridges
and across Tibbetts Valley to the Hudson River.
That the sewer system carries house drainage only-no
surface water; and throughout its entire course the grade
is downward; the sewage flows by gravity; there are no
pumping stations.
That east of and near Hudson River a high ridge runs
north and south. Immediately east of this lies Tibbetts
Valley; further east there is a second north and south
ridge; then comes Bronx Valley shut in on the- east by
a third ridge. The natural drainage of Bronx Valley is
southerly into East River; Tibbetts Valley also drains
southerly, but into Harlem River. No natural drainage
connection exists between the two valleys; they are separated throughout their entire length by the second ridge.
That the outlet sewer, through which the whole system
discharges, extends from the trunk sewer in Bronx Valley

160

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

-

261 U. S.

under the second ridge at great depth below the surface,
thence across Tibbetts Valley and under the first ridge
also at great depth to the Hudson River. Any connection with this sewer from Tibbetts Valley must be made
therein; and lands there cannot be connected at all with
the trunk sewer.
That about 2500 acres-Lincoln Park section-of Tibbettg Valley is now connected with the outlet sewer; no
other lands therein can, use it unless and until a connecting line, four miles long. is constructed, at a probable cost
of $300,000.
That notwithstanding this limited possible use Tibbetts
Valley is assessed to meet the cost of the entire system
just as the lands in Bronx Valley. Taxes for construction
and maintenance are based wholly upon assessed valuations for general purposes. Each lot is taxed according
to value and irrespective of benefits received. No power
is conferred to reduce assessments in one section not benefited equally with others.
That the district was defined by the amendment of
1917, twelve years after the original act and five years
after completion of the sewer. The first act limited the
total cost to-$2,000,000 and provided that commissioners
should determine the benefited area after opportunity for.
harings. Amendments have changed these fundamental
"provisions--the total cost exceeds $3,250,000, and the
boundarieshave been designated without notice to owners.
That the challenged assessments are upon valuations
of both land and improvements and disproportionate to
benefits. The Board of Supervisors is required to adopt
a budget, which includes unconstitutional and unlawful
items--among them cost of litigation and contingent fund
for deficiencies.
That the act as amended prohibits assessments against
lands within the sewer district when also in Mount
Vernon, but directs that a corresponding sum shall be

VALLEY FARMS CO. v. WESTCHESTER. 161
155

Opinion of the -Court.

paid by levy upon all property, real and personal, within
that City.
That plaintiff's lands have been illegally assessed. The
act as amended violates the Fourteenth Amendment by
depriving plaintiff of property without due process of law
and without just compensation and by denying it equal
protection of the laws. The assessments are a cloud upon
plaintiff's title and greatly depreciate market values.
There is no adequate remedy at law.
The prayer is for a decree declaring the assessments
void, directing their cancellation and restraining collection; and for general relief.
Counsel for plaintiff in error states that "the question
here involved is whether the statutes of the State of New
York, under which the Bronx Valley sewer assessments
were imposed over a large area of many square miles, in
Westchester County, New York, are in contravention of
due process- of law under the Fourteenth Amendment of
the Constitution of the'United States."
The argument proceeds thus-The sewer system, intended for house drainage only,
consists.of a trunk sewer 113/4 miles long, in the Bronx
Valley, connected with an outlet sewer extending westward three miles to the Hudson River. The Act of
1905-c. 646-provided that commissioners should prepare a map of the assessment district after notice to"
owners and opportunity to be heard. The supplemental
Act of 1917-c. 646-disregards this map, substitutes definite boundaries and directs assessments upon all lands
therein according to value,. including improvements--all.
parcels to be treated alike.
That such assessments disregard the difference in conditions, locations and benefits and no notice or opportunity for hearing concerning the apportionments to particular parcels is provided for.

162

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U.S.

That plaintiff's Tibbetts Valley lands are so situated
that they can never utilize any part of the sewer system
except the lower portion of the outlet sewer, and this will
be possible only through costly connections not yet
planned.
That the statutes are unconstitutional, in that-they
provide for no notice or hearing upon apportionment of
the assessments; they direct assessments of all parcels of
land according to values fixed for general taxation purposes irrespective of relation to the sewer, street frontage,
depth or shape; they include improvements in assessed
values and thereby adjoining lots of equal size are taxed
for different sums. And they are " 'of such a character
that there is no reasonable presumption that substantial
justice generally will be done, but the probability is that
the parties will be taxed disproportionately to each other
and to the benefit conferred,' so that such legislative
action is'palpably arbitrary or a plain abuse.'
Myles Salt Co. v. Iberia DrainageDistrict, 239 U. S.
478; Gast Realty & Investment Co. v. Schneider Granite
Co., 240 U. S.55; and Kansas City Southern Ry. Co. v.
Road Improvement District No. 6, 256 U. S. 658, are
cited and relied upon; but, we think it clearly appears
upon examination of those cases in connection with
Wagner v. Baltimore, 239 U. S. 207, 217, 218; Hquck v.
Little River Drainage District, 239 U. S. 254, 262, 265;
and Miller & Lux v. Sacramento DrainageDistrict, 256
U. S. 129, that the allegations of the complaint are insufficient to bring this cause within the doctrine which
plaintiff inv okes.
The courts below have upheld the assessment under the
constitution and laws of the State. We are concerned
only with application of the Fourteenth Amendment.
In Houck v. Little River DrainageDistrict,the owners
of a large area sought to enjoin collection of a tax of
twenty-five cents per acre levied generally upon lands in

VALLEY FARMS CO. v. WESTCHESTER.
155

163

Opinion of the Court.

the district to pay preliminary expenses. They alleged
that the lands varied greatly in value and that no benefits would accrue to theirs---some of which would be condemned and others damaged. The judgment of the state
courts sustaining a demurrer to the petition was affirmed
here. Speaking through Mr. Justice Hughes, this Court
delared"In view of the nature of this enterprise it is obvious
that, so 'far as the Federal Constitution is concerned, the
State might have defrayed the entire expense out of state
funds raised by general taxation or it could have apportioned the burden: among the counties in which the lands
were situated and the. improvements were to be made.
County of Mobile v. Kimball, 102 U. S. 691, 703, 704.
It was equally within the power of the State to create
tax districts to meet the authorized outlays.

...

And

with respect to districts thus formed, whether by the legislature directly or in an appropriate proceeding under
its authority, the legislature may itself fix the basis of
taxation or assessment, that is, it may define the apportionment of the burden, and its action cannot be assailed
under the Fourteenth Amendment unless it is palpably
arbitrary and a plain abuse ...
"When local improvements may be deemed to result in
special benefits, a further classification may be made and
special assessments imposed accordingly, but even in such
case there is no requirement of the Federal Constitution
that for every payment there must be an equal benefit.
The State in its discretion may lay such assessments in
proportion to position,'frontage, area, market value, or to
benefits estimated by commissioners."
In Miller & Lux v. Sacramento Drainage District,
supra, we said-" Since Houck v. Little River Drainage
District (1915), 239 U. S. 254, the doctrine has been definitely settled that in the absence of flagraiit abuse or
purely arbitrary action a State may establish drainage dis-

164

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

tricts and tax lands therein for local improvements, and
that none of such lands may escape liability solely because
they will not receive direct benefits."
Myles Salt Co. v. Iberia DrainageDistrict, Gast Realty
& Investment Co. v. Schneider Granite Co., and Kansas
City Southern Ry. Co.. v. Road Improvement District
No. 6, supra, present facts deemed sufficient to show
action "palpably arbitrary and a plain abuse" of power.
Here the allegations make out no such situation. All
lands within the district ultimately may be connected with
some portion of the sewer and we cannot say they derive
no benefits therefrom or that any were included arbitrarily
or for improper purposes.
It was unnecessary for the Legislature to give notice
and grant hearings to owners before fixing the boundaries
of the district so as to include their lands, and prescribing
the method of taxation. And it is unimportant that the
sewer had been completed before the boundaries of the
present district were established. Wagner v. Baltimore,
supra.
The state courts held that as the rolls of local assessors
are adopted for taxing property within the district the
right of owners to be heard as to values is adequately protected; and we think that under the circumstances they
can demand no more.
The judgment of the court below is
Affirmed.

