DOUGLAS v. NOBLE.
Counsel for Parties.

DOUGLAS, PROSECUTING ATTORNEY FOR KING
COUNTY, ET AL. v. NOBLE.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF WASHINGTON.

No. 159. Argued January 2, 1923.-Decided February 19, 1923.
1. The law of Washington, Remingtofi, 1915, §§ 8412-8425, which
provides that only licensed persons shall practice dentistry, vesting
the licensing power in an examining board of practicing dentists
and declaring that every person of good moral character with a
diploma from a reputable dental college shall be eligible and. shall
have a license if he passes examination, is not to be construed as
testing power in the board to grant or withhold licenses arbitrarily. P. 167.
2. The statute indicates clearly, though not in terms, the general
standard of fitness, and the character of examination required,
leaving to the board to determine (1) what knowledge and skill
fit one to practice dentistry, and (2) whether the applicant possesses them. P. 169.
3. Delegation of these functions to a board is consistent with the
Federal Constitution. P. 170.
274 Fed. 672, reversed.
APPEAL from a decree of the District Court permanently
enj6ining the appellants, two prosecuting attorneys, from
proceeding criminally against the appellee for practicing
dentistry without a license.

Mr. Malcolm Douglas,with whom Mr.L. L. Thompson,
Attorney General of the State of Washington, and Mr.
Bert C. Ross were on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. Cassius E. Gates, for appellee, submitted. Mr.
Browder Brown and Mr. J. W. A. Nichols were also on the
brief.

166

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

MR. JusTICE BRANDEIs delivered the opinion of the
Court.
In 1893 the legislature of Washington provided that
only licensed persons should practice dentistry. It vested
the authority to license in a board of examiners, consisting of five practicing dentists; and it required that persons desiring to practice should apply to that board and
undergo examination before it. Every person of good
moral character with a diploma from a reputable dental
college was declared eligible; and, if he or she passed the
examination, became entitled to a license. Laws-of Washington, 1893, c. 55. That statute, with amendments not
here material, Laws of 1901, c. 152, has since been continuously in force. It is now embodied in Remington's
1915 Codes and Statutes of Washington, § 8412--§ 8425.
The validity of the statute has been attacked on .various
grounds; and it has been repeatedly upheld by the highest
court of the State.'
In 1921 Noble brought this suit in the federal court for
the Western District of Washington to enjoin the King
County prosecuting attorney from proceeding criminally.
against him for practicing dentistry without a license.
Jurisdiction of that court was invoked solely on the
ground that rights guaranteed plaintiff by the Federal
Constitution were being invaded. The bill charged, that
these were violated, both because the licensing statute was
void and because the board in administering it had exercised its power arbitrarily. The case was heard by three
judges upon application for an interlocutory injunction
I State ex rel. Smith v. Board of Dental Examiners, 31 Wash. 492;
In re Thompson, 36 Wash. 377, 379; State ex rel. Brown v. Board of
Dental Examiners, 38 Wash. 325; State v. Littooy, 37 Wagh. 693;
State ex rel. Thompson v. State Board of Dental Examiners, 48
Wash. 291; State v. Littooy, 52 Wash. 87; Brown v. State. 59 Wash.
195. See also State v. Brown, 37 Wash. 97.

DOUGLAS v. NOBLE.
165

Opinion of the Court.

under § 266 of the Judicial Code. It was admitted
that-plaintiff was of good moral character; that he had a
diploma from a reputabledental college; that he had submitted himself to the dental board for examination; that
he had been examined, but had not passed the examination; afid that, although refused a license, he had persisted in practicing dentistry. The board denied,, by its
answer, that it had acted arbitrarily in refusing a license;
and this charge does not appear to have been further insisted upon.
. Plaintiff rested his case solely on the claim that the
statute violated the.Federal Constitution. It was conceded that a State may, consistently with the Fourteenth
Amendment, prescribe, that only persons. possessing the
reasonably necessary qualifications shall practice dentistry, Dent v. West Virginia, 129 U. S. 114; and that the
legislature may, if consistefit with the state constitution,
confer upon an administrative board the power to determine whether an applicant possesses the qualifications
which the legislature has declared to be necessary. The
contention is that -the &tatutepurports to confer upon the
board arbitrary power to ekclude applicants from the
practice of dentistry and thus violates the due process
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. The District
Court held the act void on that ground; and issued a permanent injunction. 274 Fed. 672. Whether it erred in so
holding is the only question presented for our consideration on this appeal.
The argument is that, since the act does not state in
terms what the scope and character of the examination
shall be, arbitrary power is conferred upon the board to
grant or withhold licenses. It is pointed out that the
statute does not in terms direct that the examination
shall relate to the- applicant's qualifications to practice
dentistry; that it does not prescribe the subjects upon
which applicants shall be examined, or whether profi-

168

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

ciency shall be determined by knowledge of theory or by
requiring applicants to demonstrate skill with the tools
and materials of the profession; that it does not provide
whether the examination shall be oral or written, or what
percentages of correct answers shall be required to pass
the examination; and that it does not require the -keeping
of records of the proceedings which could be used for purposes of review.
What authority the statute purports to confer upon the
board is a question of construction. If it purported to
confer arbitrary discretion to withhold a license, or to impose conditions which have no relation to the applicant's
qualifications to practice dentistry, the statute would, of
course, violate the due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment. Its construction is a question of state law.
Since the case is here on appeal from a federal court, we
must consider it, Davis v. Wallace, 257 U. S. 478. But in
passing upon such questions we follow applicable decisions of the highest court of the State. Fallbrook Irrigation District v. Bradley, 164 U. S. 112, 154. The statutory provisions involved in the present case were construed twenty years ago by the Supreme Court of Washington in In re Thompson, 36 Wash. 377, 379. It was insisted there that the grant of the power to hold examinations was a .delegation of arbitrary legislative power to
the dental examiners. The court assumed that to delegate power to make such rules was consistent with the
constitution of the State; and that the statute had conferred upon the board power to make rules. It declared
that the board must have adopted rules "in order to
properly determine the good character of the applicant
and the good standing of the college issuing his diploma,
and to conduct the examinations upon subjects reasonably required in that profession." And it held that, if
there was an abuse of authority, the remedy is to review,
by some appropriate proceeding, the conduct of the board,

DOUGLAS v. NOBLE.
165

Opinion of the Court.

not to attack the validity of the act. Thus, the highest
court of the State has construed this statute as not conferring arbitrary power upon the board in respect to the
scope and character of the examination. The statute has
been in force for thirty years. The correctness of the
views expressed in In re Thompson does not appear to have
been questioned by that court since. Under such circumstances, we should, even in the absence of controlling decision, decline to give the statute a construction which
would render it void, unless compelled to do so by unequivocal -language in the act. Knights Templars' &
Masons' Life Indemnity Co. v. Jarman,187 U. S. 191, 205.
Obviously there is none of that character.
The statute provides that the examination shall be before a board of practicing dentists; that the applicant
must be a graduate of a reputable dental school; and that
he must be of good moral character. Thus, the general
standard of fitness and the character and scope of the examination are clearly indicated. Whether the applicant
possesses the qualifications inherent in that standard is a
question of fact. Compare Red "C" Oil Mfg. Co. v.
North Carolina,222 U. S. 380, 394. The decision of that
fact involves ordinarily the determination of two subsidiary questions of fact. The first, what the knowledge
and skill is which fits one to practice*the profession. The
second, whether the applicant possesses that knowledge
and skill. The latter finding is necessarily an individual
one. The former is ordinarily one of general application.
Hence, it can be embodied in rules. The legislature itself
.may make this finding of the facts of general application,
and by embodying it in the statute make it law. When
it does so, the function of the examining board is limited
to determining whether the applicant complies with the
requirements so declared. But the legislature need not
make this general finding. To determine the subjects of
which one must have knowledge in order to be fit to prac-

170

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

tice dentistry; the extent of knowledge in each subject;
the degree of skill requisite; and the procedure to be followed in conducting the examination; these are matters
appropriately committed .to an administrative board.
Mutual Film Corporationv. Ohio IndustrialCommission,
236 U.,S. 230, 245-6. And a legislature may, consistently
with the Federal Constitution, delegate to such board the
function of determining these things, as well as the functions of determining whether the applicant complies with
the detailed standard of fitness. Reetz v. Michigan, 188
U. S. 505. That the scope of the discretion here granted
to the examining board was well within the limits allowed
by the Federal Constitution, and that it is not to be
presumed that powers conferred upon the administrative
boards will be exercised arbitrarily, is settled by Lieberman v. Van de Carr, 199 U. S. 552.
Appellee relied upon Yick Wo v. Hopkins, 118 U. S.
356. There the licensing board habitually exercised its
power arbitrarily, and discrimination was practiced.
Seattle v. Gibson, 96 Wash. 425, and State ex rel. Makris
v. Superior Court for Pierce County, 113 Wash. 296,
strongly relied upon by appellee, are not inconsistent
with In re Thompson. The ordinances involved in these
later cases were construed by the state court to vest in
the city officials an arbitrary discretion to grant or withhold, and to revoke, licenses. Whether the constitution
of the State permits delegation to the examining board
of the power to ascertain and fix the essentials of fitness
is wholly a state question. Welch v. Swasey, 214 U. S.
91, 104; Bradley v. Richmond, 227 U. S. 477, 482. It is
not contended that the statute violates the state constitution in this respect.
Reversed.

