276

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion *of the Court.

261 U. S.

MUNTER v. WEIL CORSET COMPANY, INC.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF CONNECTICUT.

No. 255.

Argued Jaiiuary 22, 1923.-Decided February 26, 1923.

1. In an action on contract in the District Court valid service on the
defendant cannot be made in another district and State. P. 277.
2. Motion by a defendant in the District Court that the cause be
"erased

from the docket ", for want of proper service, held in
effect a motion to dismiss for want of jurisdiction. P. 277.
3. The methods of raising questions of jurisdiction in the federal
courts are not controlled by state procedure and the Conformity
Act (Rev. Stats. ยง 914), but are determined by this Court. P. 278.
4. A defendant who seasonably objects to a void service of process
does not submit to the jurisdiction by failing to conform to an
erroneous view of the District Court on the manner of raising the
objection, or by subsequ3nt inactivity cocurred in by the opposite
party. P. 278.
Reversed.

ERROR to a judgment of the District Court, entered on
default in an action for goods sold and delivered and for
breach of contract.
Mr. ElijahN. Zoline for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Benjamin Slade for defendant in error.

VIR.

JUSTICE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Action in the District Court for the District of Connecticut, by the Well Corset Company, a corporation of
Connecticut, against Charles Munter, a citizen and resident of New York, for breach of contract, damages being
laid at $7,273.26 with interest from November 13, 1914.
Service upon Munter was made in New York City.
The case is between citizens of different States and involves more than three thousand dollars, exclusive of

MUNTER v. WEIL CO.
276

Opinion of the Court.

interest and costs. It therefore is within the general
jurisdiction of the District Courts. ยง 24 of the Judicial
Code. The plaintiff being a resident of the district in
which the suit was brought, the defendant could not object
to the venue or place of suit. ยง 51, Judicial Code. Camp
v. Gress, 250 U. S. 308; Lee v. Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co.,
260 U. S. 653.
But service of process was made upon Munter in New
York and he availed himself of the fact by filing on August 30, 1918, before the return- day, by his attorney, the
following motion: "The defendant moves that the above
entitled case be erased from the docket, because it appears
from the writ and complaint therein that the defendant
was at the time of the commencement of said action a
resident of the State of New York, and it appears from
the return thereon that service of said writ and complaint
was not otherwise made upon him than by leaving a copy
of said writ and complaint with him in the Borough of
Manhattan, City, County and State of New York."
Thb court denied the motion on the ground that it
"contained no prayer for judgment," a prayer for judgment, it Was held, being necessary under the statutes of
Connecticut in pleas "to the jurisdiction, or in abatement, or both" and that the condition was made appli-,
cable to the District Court by the Conformity Act (ยง 914,
Revised Statutes, United States). That act provides
that "The practice, pleadings, and forms and modes of
proceeding'in civil causes, other than equity and admiralty causes, in the circuit and district courts, shall conform, as near as may be, to the practice, pleadings, and
forms and modes of proceeding existing at the time in
like causes in the courts of record of the State within
which such circuit or district courts are held, any rule of
court to the contrary notwithstanding."
It may well be contended that the objection to the
motion was more verbal han real. There was substan-

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

tially a prayer for judgment, the only judgment that could
be granted, that is, that the "case be erased from the
docket" which, necessarily, meant dismissed for want of
jurisdiction in the court over the defendant because the
"service of said writ and complaint was not otherwise
made upon him than by leaving a copy of said writ and
complaint with him in the Borough of Manhattan, City,
County and State of New York."
We have decided in cases which concern the jurisdiction
of the federal courts that notwithstanding the Conformity
Act, neither the statutes of the States nor the decisions of
their courts are conclusive upon the federal court, the determination of such questions being "in this court alone."
Mechanical Appliance Co. v. Castleman, 215 U. S.437,
443. The motion of Munter, therefore, should have been
granted, and the action dismissed.
It is, however, contended that he, by his subsequent
conduct, submitted to the ruling and waived his right of
objection. The motion was made August 30, 1918. The
case was assigned for trial for November 28, 1921. After
some correspondence with counsel for plaintiff and some
conversation with the court, Munter, through other counsel, moved the court "for an order vacating and setting
aside the decision of June 12, 1919, and directing that the
above entitled action be erased from the docket of the
Court."

The court denied the motion. The court took pains
to review the prior proceedings and distinguished between
the objections to the jurisdiction that cannot be waived,
and those that can be waived, assigning the objection of
Munter to the latter, ai~d when they are waived, "the
jurisdiction of the court is complete."
The court deduced a waiver from the conduct of counsel,
notwithstanding the court conceded that counsel had
strenuously insisted upon the objection. The conclusion
was reached because in the view of the court the defective

MUNTER v. WElL CO.
276

Opinion of the Court.

service had not been properly taken advantage of, and
-that "by failing to follow up the ruling made on June 12,
1919," the defendant was "guilty of gross laches and by
his laches" had "waived his right," and this was" equivalent to an actual waiver under the statute accorded himto object to the jurisdiction."
We are unable to concur. The service on Munter was
void. The District Court of Connecticut had no power
to send its process to New York for service. Toland v.
Sprague, 12 Pet. 300, 330; Herndon v. Ridgway, 17 How.
424; Insurance Co. v. Bangs, 103 U. S. 435. That Munter
might have waived his right to object to the service is
established by the cases cited by the court. They are all
to the effect that pleading to the merits or a generba
appearance without objecting to the service is a waiver.
There is no such pleading or appearance in the present
case and no action or conduct tantamount to either.
There was delay, it is true, but it was as much the delay
of the Corset Company as of Munter, and to this situation
the Company brought its action. It subjected its action
to the indulgence of Munter and he, in the exercise of his
right, immediately declared his opposition to the invalid
service made in another district and State. He did all
that was -incumbent upon him to avail of his right. The
court erred by denying it, and erred again in refusing to
set aside the order denying it.
Reversed and remanded with directions to dismiss the
action.

