72

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Statement of the Case.

261 U.S.

PENNSYLVANIARAIIROAD COMPANY v.UNITED
STATES RAILROAD LABOR BOARD ET AL.
APPEAL FROM AND CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF
APPEALS FOR THE SEVENTH

CIRCUIT.

No. 585. Argued January 11, 1923.-Decided February 19, 1923.
1. Under Title III, § 307, of the Transportation Act, 1920, the Railroad Labor Board has jurisdiction to hear and decide a dispute
over rules and working conditions upon the application of either
side, when the parties have failed to agree upon a settlement under
§ 301 and no adjustment board has been organized under § 302.
P. 80.
2. In authorizing such application by .any "organization of employees

. .

. directly interested in the dispute,"

(§ 307), 'the

act includes labor unions. P. 81.
3. The Board has jurisdiction to decide who may represent employees in conferences under § 301 or in applying for hearings
under § 307, and to make reasonable rules in advance for ascertaining the will of the employees in this regard. § 308. P. 82. 4. The Board was created, not as a tribunal to determine the legal
rights and obligations of railway employers and employees, or to
protect and enforce these, but to decide how such rights ought
to be exercised for coSperation in running a railroad; its decisions
have no other sanction than that of public opinion. P. 84.
5. The making of decisions and publication of violations in accordance with the procedure and within the discretion defined by the
statute, cannot be enjoined by the courts. Id.
282 Fed. 701, affirmed.

This case involves the construction of Title III of the
Transportation Act of 1920, c. 91, 41 Stat. 456, 469. The
Title provides for the settlement of disputes between railroad companies engaged in interstate commerce and their
employees, and as a means of securing this, it creates a
Railroad Labor Board and defines its functions and
powers.
The Pennsylvania Railroad Company began this action
by a bill in equity against the lailroad Labor Board and
its individual members in the District Court fQr the

PENNA. R. R. v. LABOR BOARD.
72

Statement of the Case.

Northern District of Illinois, where the Board has its
office, averring that the suit involved more than $3,000,
and praying an injunction against the defendants' alleged
unlawf ii proceedings under the act.and especially against
their threatened official publication under § 313 of the
Title that the Railroad Company had violated the Board's
decision under the act.
. The defendai'ts moved to dismiss the bill on the ground
that the suit was one against the United States without
its consent, and also for want of equity and a lack of a
cause of action. They also filed an answer making the
same objections to the bill as in the motion and setting
forth by exhibits more in detail the proceedings before
the Board and its decisions. The District Court heard
the ca&se on the bill, motion and answer, and granted the
injunction as prayed. The Board appealed to the Circuit
Court of Appeals, which reversed the decree and directed
the dismissal of the bill. The decree of the Circuit Court
of Appeals, not being made final by.the statutes, the case
is brought here by appeal under § 241 of the Judicial
Code.
On December 28, 1917, the President, by authority of
the Act of CongreSs of August 29, 1916, c. 418, 39 Stat.
619, 645, took over the railroads of the country, including
that of the complainant, and operated them through the
Director General of Railroads until March 1, 1920, when,
pursuant to the Transportation Act of 1920, possession of
them was restored to the companies owning them. During his operation, the Director General. had increased
wages and established the rules and working conditions
by what -were called National Agreements with National
Labor Unions composed of men engaged in the various
railroad crafts. Further demands by employees through
such unions were presented to the Director General and
were pending and undetermined when the Transportation
Act was approved. Conferences were held between the

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Statement of the Case.

261 U. S.

heads of the labor unions, signatories to the National
Agreement, and representatives of the railroads after the
railroads: were restored to private ownership, but without
successful issue. When the members of the Labor Board
were appointed and organized, April 15, 1920, it assumed
jurisdiction of these demands and proceeded to deal with
them. It rendered its decision as to the wage. dispute on
July 20, 1920, and postponed that as to rules and working
conditions until April 14, 1921, when it decided that such
rules and working conditions as were fixed .in the so-called
National Agreements under the Director General and had
been continued by the Board as a modus vivendi should
end July 1, 1921, and remanded the matter to the individual carriers and their respective employees, calling
upon them in the case of each railroad to designate representatives to confer and decide so far as possible respecting rules and working conditions for the operation of such
railroad and to keep the Board advised of the progress
toward agreement. The Board accompanied this decision
(No. 119) with a statement of principles or rules of decision which it intended to follow in consideration and settlement of disputes between the carriers and employees.
The -only two here important are §§ 5 .and 15, as follows:
"5. The right of such lawful organization to act toward
lawful objecta through representatives of its own choice,
whether employees of a particular carrier or otherwise,
shall be agreed to by management."
" 15. The majority of any craft or class of employees
shall have the right to determine what organization shall
represent members of such craft or class. Such organization shall have the right to make an agreement which
shall apply to all employees in such craft or class. No
such agreement shall infringe, however, upon the right
of employees not members of the organization representing the majority to present grievances either in person or
by' representatives of their own choice."

PENNA. R. R. v. LABOR BOARD.
72

Statement of the Case.

On June 27, 1921, the Board announced that some
carriers in conference with their employees had agreed
upon rules and working conditions and others had not.
As to the latter the Board continued the old rules and
working conditions until it should render a decision as to
them.
In May, 1921, the officers of the Federation of Shop Crafts
of the Pennsylvania System, a labor union of employees
of that System engaged in shop work, and affiliated with
the American 'Federation of Labor, met the representatives of the Pennsylvania Railroad Company. They said
they represented a majority of the employees of the Pennsylvania System in those crafts and were prepared to confer and agree upon.-rules and working conditions. The
Pennsylvania representatives refused to confer with the
Federation for lack of proof that it did represent such a
majority, and said they would send out a form of ballot
to their employees asking them to designate thereon their
representatives. The Federation officers objected to this
ballot because it was not in accordance with Principles
5 .and 15 of the Board in that it made no provision for
representation of employees by an organization, but specified that those selected must be natural persons, and such
only as were employees of the Pennsylvania Company,
and also because it required that the representatives of
the employees should be selected, regionally rather than
from the whole system. The result was that the Company and the Federation each sent out ballots. The Federation then filed a complaint under § 307 of the Transportation Act, against the Pennsylvania Company, complaining on behalf of its members directly interested of
the Company's course in respect of the ballots. The Company appeared, a hearing was had and the Board decided
(Decision No. 218) that neither of the ballots sent out by
the parties was proper, that representatives so chosen
were not proper representatives and that rules and work-

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Statement of the Case.

261 U. S.

ing conditions agreed upon by them would be void. It
fu ther appeared that the votes cast on the Company's
ballots were something more than 3,000 out of more than
33,000 employees entitled to vote. The Federation had
advised its members not to vote on the Company's ballots.
What the result was in the vote of the Federation ballots
did not appear. The persons chosen by the 3,000 votes
on the Company's ballots conferred with the Pennsylvania Company's representatives" and agreed upon rules
and working conditions. The Board in its .decision ordered a new election for which rules were prescribed and
a form of ballot was specified, on which labor organizations as well as individuals could be voted for as representatives at the option of the employee.
The Company on September 16, 1921, applied to the
Board to vacate this decision on the ground that there
was no dispute before the Board of which by Title III
of the Transportati6n Act the Board was given jurisdiction. After a hearing the Board declined to vacate its
order but said that it would allow the Company to be
heard on the question of the ratification of its shop craft
rules by representatives of the crafts concerned when
fairly selected.
Title III of the Transportation Act of 1920 bears the
heading "Disputes Between Carriers And Their Employees And Subordinate Officials."
Section 301 makes it the duty of carriers, their officers,
employees and subordinate officials, to exert every reasonable effort to avoid interruption to the operation of
an interstate. commerce carrier due to a dispute between
the carrier and its employees, and further provides that
such disputes shall be considered and if possible decided
"in conference between representatives designated 'and
authorized so to confer by the carriers, or the employees
or subordinate officials thereof, directly interested in the

disibute."

PENNA. R. R. v. LABOR BOARD.
72

Statement of the Case.

The section concludes:
"If any dispute is not decided in such conference, it
shall be referred by the parties thereto to the board which
under the provisions of this title is authorized to hear and
decide such dispute."
Section 302 provides for the establishment of railroad
boards of adjustment by agreement between any carrier,
group of carriers, or the carriers as a whole, and any
employees or subordinate officials of carriers, or organization or group of organizations thereof. No such boards
of adjustment were established when this controversy
arose.

Section 303 provides for hearing and decision by such
boards of adjustment upon petition of any dispute involving only grievances, rules or working conditions not
decided as provided in § 301.
Sections 304, 305 and 306 provide for the appointment
and organization of the "Railroad Labor Board," composed of nine members, three from the Labor Group,
three from the Carrier Group, and three from the Public
Group.
Section 307 (a) provides that when a labor adjustment
board under § 303 has not reached a decision of a dispute
involving grievances, rules or working conditions in a
reasonable time, or when the appropriate adjustment
board has not been organized-under § 302, the Railroad
Labor Board "(1) upon the application of the chief executive of any carrier or organization of .employees or sub-.
ordinate officials whose members are directly interested in
the dispute, (2) upon a written-petition signed by not less
than 100 unorganized employees or subordinate officials
directly interested in the dispute, or (3) upon the Labor
Board's own motion if it is of the opinion that the dispute
is likely substantially to interrupt commerce, shall receive
for hearing, and as soon as practicable and with due diligence decide, any dispute involving *grievances, rules, or

78-

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Statement of the Case.

261 U. S.

working conditions which is not decided as provided in
section 301."
Paragraph (b) of the same section provides for a~hearing and decision of disputes over wages.
Paragraph (c) makes necessary to a decision of the
Board the concurrence of five members, of whom, in the
case of wage disputes, a member of the Public Group
must be one. The paragraph further provides that
"All decisions of the Labor Boaid shall be entered upon
the records of the board and copies thereof, together with
such statement of facts bearing .thereon as the board may
deem proper, shall be immediately communicated to the
parties to the dispute, the President, each Adjustment
Board, and the [Interstate Commerce] Commission, and
shall be given further publicity in such manner as the
Labor Board may determine."
Paragraph (d) requires that decisions of the Board
shall establish standards of working conditions which in
the opinion of the Board are just and reasonable.
Section 308 prescribes other duties and powers of the
Labor Board, among which is that of making "regulations necessary for the efficient execution of the functions
vested in it by this title."
Section 309 prescribes that
"Any party to any dispute to be considered by an
Adjustment Board or by the Labor Board shall be entitled to a hearing either in person or by counsel."
Section 313 is as follows:
"The Labor Board, in case it has reason to believe that
any decision of the Labor Board or of an Adjustment
Board is violated by any carrier, or employee or subordinate official, or organization thereof, may upon. its own
motion after due notice and hearing to all persons directly
interested in such violation, determine whether in its
opinion such violation has occurred and make public its
decision in such manner as it may determine."

PENNA. R. R. v. LABOR BOARD.
72

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Frederic D. McKenney, with whom Mr. Frank J.
Loesch, Mr. Timothy J. Scofield, Mr. Charles F. Loesch,
Mr. Robert W. Richards, Mr. C. B. Heiserman and Mr.
E. H. Seneff were on the brief, for appellant and petitioner.
Mr. Blackburn Esterline, Assistant to the Solicitor
General, with whom Mr. Attorney General Daugherty
and Mr. Solicitor General Beck were on the brief, for
appellees and respondents.
MR. CHImF JUSTIcE T r, after stating the case as
above, delivered the opinion of the Court.

It is evident from a review of Title III of the Transportation Act of 1920 that Congress deems it of the highest public interest to prevent the interruption of interstate commerce by labor disputes and strikes, and that its
plan is to encourage settlement without strikes, first by
conference between the parties; failing that, by reference
to adjustment boards of the parties' own choosing, and
ineffective, by a full hearing before a National
if
this is
Board
appointed
by the President, upon which are an
-equal number of representatives.of the Carrier Group, the
Labor Group, and the Public. The decisions of the Labor
Board are not to be enforced by process. The only sanction of its decision is to be the force of public opinion
invoked by the fairness of a full hearing, the intrinsic justice of the conclusion, strengthened by the official prestige
of the Board, and the full publication of, the violation of
such decision by any party to the proceeding. The
evident thought of Congress in these provisions is that
the economic .interest of every member of the Public in
the undisturbed flow of interstate commerce and the acute
inconvenience to which all must be subjected by an interruption, caused by a serious and widespread labor dispute,
fastens public attention closely on all the circumstances

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

of the controversy and arouses public criticism of the side
thought to be at fault. The function of the Labor Board
is to direct that public criticism against the party who, it
thinks, justly deserves it.
The main and controlling question in this case is,
whether the members of the Board exceeded their powers
on the facts as disclosed in the bill and answer.
It is contended by the carrier that the Labor Board can
not obtain jurisdiction to hear and decide a dispute until
it is referred by the parties to the Board after they have
conferred and failed to agree under § 301.. Undoubtedly
thie act requires a serious effort by the carrier and his employees to adjust their differences as the first step in
settling a dispute but the subsequent sections dispel the
idea that the jurisdiction of the Board to function in respect to the dispute is dependent on a joint submission
of the dispute to it. If adjustment boards are not agreed
upon, then under § 307, either side is given an opportunity to bring its complaint before the Labor Board, which
then is to summon everyone having an interest, and after
a full hearing is to render a decision' A dispute existed
between all the'carriers and the officers of the National
Labor Unions as to rules and working conditions in the
operation of the railroads. By order of the Labor Board,
this dispute, which had arisen before the passage of the
Transportation Act and before the Government had
turned back the railroads to their owners, was continued
for settlement before the Labor Board. That Board had
been obliged to postpone the decision of the controversy
until it could give it full hearing and meantime had ordered that the existing rules and conditions should be
maintained as a modus vitiendi.
Counsel of the Railroad Company insist that the Board
had no jurisdiction to make an order or to take up the controversies between the Government Railroad Administration and the National Labor Unions; that when the rail-

PENNA. R. R-. v. LABOR BOARD.
72

81

Opinion of the Court.

roads were turned back to their owners each company had
the right to make its own rules and conditions and to deal
with its own employees under § 301, and that the jurisdiction of the Board did not attach until a dispute as to such
rules and conditions between the company and its employees had thereafter arisen.
We are not called upon to pass upon the propriety or
legality of what the Labor Board did in continuing the
existing rules and labor conditions which had come over
from the Railroad Administration, or in hearing an argument as to their amendment by its decision. It suffices
for our decision that the Labor Board at the instance of
the carriers finally referred the whole question of rules
and labor conditions to each company and its employees
to be settled by conference under § 301; that such conferences were attempted in this case, and that thereafter the
matter was brought before the Board by Federation No.
90 of Shop Crafts of the Pennsylvania System under
§ 307. It is the alleged invalidity of this proceeding, thus
initiated, which is really the basis of the bill of complaint
of the Company herein, and it is this onlr which we need
consider.
First, Did Federation No. 90 have the fight under § 307
to institute the hearing of the dispute? Section 307 says
that this may be invoked on the application of the chief
executive of any organization of employees whose members are directly interested in the dispute. Its name indicates, and the record shows, that the Federation is anassociation of employees of the Pennsylvania Company
directly interested in the'dispute. The only question between the Company and the Federation is whether the
membership of the latter includes a majority of the Company's employees who are interested. But it is said that
the Federation is a labor union affiliated with the Ameri.
can Federation of Labor and that the phrase "organiza-

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

tion of employees" used in the act was not intended by
Congress to include labor unions. We find nothing in the
act to impose any such limitation if the organization in
other respects fulfills the description of the act. Congress
has frequently recognized the legality of labor unions,
United Mine Workers v. Coronado Coal Co., 259 U. S.
344, and no reason suggests itself why such an association, if its membership is properly inclusive, may not be
regarded as among the organizations of employees referred
to in this legislation.
The next objection made by the Company to the jurisdiction of the Board to entertain the proceeding initiated
-bythe Federation is that it did not involve the kind of
dispute of which the Board could take cognizance under
the act. The result of the conferences between the Pennsylvania Railroad Company and its employees under § 301
appears in the statement of the case. By a vote of 3,000
out of more than 30,000 employees, a representative committee was appointed with which the officers of the Company made an agreement as to rules and working conditions. Federation No. 90 for its members objected to the
settlement on the ground that it had not been made by
properly chosen representatives of the employees and
brbught this dispute before the Labor Board. The Pennsylvania Company was summoned and appeared before
the Board and the issue was heard.
It is urged that the question who may represent the
employees as to grieyances, rules and working conditions
tinder § 301 is not within the jurisdiction of the Labor
Board to decide; that these representatives must be determined before the conferences are held under that section; that the jurisdiction of the Labor Board.does not
begin until after these conferences are held, and that the
representatives who can make application under § 307 to
the Board are representatives engaged in the conference
under § 301. Such a construction would give either side

PENNA. R. R. v. LABOR BOARD.
72

Opinion of the Court.

an easy opportunity to defeat the operation of the act
and to prevent the Labor: Board from considering any
dispute. It would tend to make the act unworkable. If
the Board has jurisdiction to hear representatives of the
employees, it must of necessity have the power to determine who are proper representatives of the employees.
That is a condition precedent to its effective exercise of
jurisdiction at all. One of its specific powers conferred
by § 308 is to "make regulations necessary for the efficient
execution of the functions vested in it by this title." This
mUst include the authority to determine who are proper
representatives of the employees and to make reasonable
rules for ascertaining the will of the employees in the
matter.
Again, we think that this question of who may be
representatives of employees, not only before the Board,
but in the conferences and elsewhere is and always has
been one of the most important of the rules and working
conditions in the operation of a railroad. The purpose
of Congress to promote harmonious relations between the
managers of railways and their employees is seen in every
section of this act, and the importance attached by Congress to conferences between them for this purpose is
equally obvious. Congress must have intended, there-fore, to include the procedure for determining representatives of employees as a proper subject matter of dispute
to be considered by the Board under § 307. The act is
to be liberally construed to effect the manifest effort of
Congress to compose differences between railroid companies and their employees, and it would not help this
effort, to exclude from the lawful consideration of. th
Labor Board a question which has so often seriously
affected the relations between the companies and their
employees in the past and is often encountered on the
very threshold of controversies between them.
The second objection is that the Labor Board in Decision 119 and Principles 5 and 15, and in Decision 218,

84

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

compels. the Railroad Company to recognize labor unions
as factors in the conduct of its business. The counsel for
the Company insist that the right to deal with inadividual
represent'atives of its employees as to rules and working
conditions is an inherent right which can not be constitutionally taken from it. The employees, or at least those
who are members of the labor unions, contend that they
have a lawful right to select their own representatives,
and that it is not within the right of the Company to
restrict them in their selection to employees of the Company or to forbid selection of officers of their labor unions
qualified to deal with and protect their interests. This
,statute certainly does not deprive either side of the rights
claimed.
But Title III was not enacted to provide a tribunal to
determine what ivere the legal rights and obligations of
railway employers and employees or to enforce or protect
them. Courts can do that. The Labor Board was
created to decide how the parties ought to exercise their
legal rights so as to enable them to co{perate in running
the railroad. It was to reach a fair compromise between
the parties without regard to the legal rights upon which
each side might insist in a court of law. The Board is to
act as a Board of Arbitration. It is to give expression
to its view of the moral obligation of each side as members
of society to agree upon a basis for co6peration in the
work of running the railroad in the public interest. The
only limitation upon the Board's decisions is that they
should establish a standard of conditions, which, in its
opinion, is just and reasonable. The jurisdiction of the
Board to direct the parties to do what it deems they
should do is. not to be limited by their constitutional or
legal right to refuse to do it. Under the act there is no
constraint 'upon them to do what the Board decides they
should do except the moral constraint, already mentioned,
of publication of its decision.

PENNA. R. R. v. LABOR BOARD.
72

Opinion of the Court.

It is not for this or any other court to pass upon the
correctness of the conclusion of the Labor Board if it
keeps within the jurisdiction thus assigned to it by the
statute. The. statute does not require the Railway Company to recognize or to deal with, or confer with labor
unions. It does not r~quire employees to deal with their
employers through their fellow employees. But we think
it does vest the Labor Board with power to decide how
such representatives ought to be chosen with a view to
securing a satisfactory codperation and leaves it to the
.two sides to accept or reject the decision. The statute
provides the machinery for conferences, the hearings, the
decisions and the moral sanction. The Labor Board must
comply with the requirements of the statute; but having
thus complied, it is not in its reasonings and conclusions
limited as a court is limited to a consideration of the legal
rights of the parties.
The propriety of the Board's announcing in advance of
litigated disputes the rules of decision as to them is not
before us except as to Principles 5 and 15 of Decision No.
119, so far as they determine the methods by which representatives of employees should be selected. They were
applied and followed in the form of ballot prescribed by
Decision 218. These decisions were necessary in order
that conferences should be properly begun under § 301,
and that disputes there arising should be brought before,
the Board. They were therefore not- premature. It is
not for us to express any opinion upon the merits of
these principles and decisions. All that we may do in
this case is to hold, as we do, that they were within te
lawful function of the Board to*render, and not, being
compulsory, violate no legal or equitable rigitof the complaining company.
For this reason, we think that the District Court was
wrong in enjoining the Labor-Board from proceeding to
entertain further jurisdiction and from publishing its

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.

86

Syllabus.

261 U. S.

opinions, and that the Court of Appeals was right in

reversing the District Court and in directing a dismissal
of the bill. We do not find it necessary, therefore, to
consider the questions raised at the bar as to whether the
Railroad Labor Board is a corporation under the act and
capable of suing or being sued, without the consent of the
United States, and whether the Board's publication of its
opinions in matters beyond its jurisdiction could be properly enjoined by a court of equity.

Decree affirmed.
MOORE ET AL. v. DEMPSEY, KEEPER OF THE
ARKANSAS STATE PENITENTIARY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKANSAS.

No. 199. Argued January 9, 1923.-Decided February 19, 1923.
1. Upon an appeal from an order of the District Court dismissing a
petition for habeas corpus upon demurrer, the allegations of fact
pleaded in the petition and admitted by the demurrer must be
accepted as true. P. 87.
2. A trial for murder in a state court in which the accused are
hurried to conviction under mob domination without regard for
their rights, is without due process of law and absolutely void.
P. 90.
3. In the absence of sufficient corrective proces afforded by the
state courts, when persons held under a death sentence and alleging facts showing that their conviction resulted from such a trial,
apply to the Federal District Court for habeas corpus, that court
must find whether the facts so. alleged are true, and whether they
can be explained so far as to leave the state proceedings undisturbed. P. 91.
Reversed.

from an order of the District Court dismissing
a petition for habeas corpus upon demurker.
AxPEAL

Mr. U. S. Bratton and Mr. Moorfield Storey for appellants.

