294

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for City of New York.

261 U. S.

UNITED STATES AND CITY OF NEW YORK v.
BENEDICT, SOLE SURVIVING TRUSTEE OF
LANGLEY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
No. 394.

Argued January 23, 1923.-Decided March 5, 1923.

1. In an action to recover money from the United States, wherein,
upon a suggestion made by the Circuit Court of Appeals to avoid
a reversal, the plaintiff assigred part of the recovery to a city
which claimed an interest in the premises but insisted that the
complaint should have been dismissed. Held, that the city, by
not objecting to the suggestion in the Court of Appeals and by
waiting three months before suing out a writ of error here, must
be deenied to have accepted the assignment and consented to the
judgment and that its writ of error must be dismissed. P. 298.
2. In an action against the United States for a balance due on property taken under the Lever Act, interest is recoverable from the
date of the taking. P. 298. Seaboard Air Line Ry. Co. v. United
States, post, 299.
Writ of error of City of New York to review 280 Fed. 76, dismissed.
As to the United States, judgment affirmed.
ERROR

to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals

affirming, with modification, a judgment of the District
Court for the plaintiff, in an action against the United
States for a balance due as compensation for property
taken under the Lever Act. The City of New York was
joined as co-defendant to adjudicate its claim of interest
in the property.
Mr. Alfred A. Wheat, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Mr. Solicitor General Beck was on
the brief, for the United States.
Mr. Charles J. Nehrbas, with whom Mr. Edward J.
Kenney, Jr., was on the brief, for the City of New York,
plaintiff in error.

UNITED STATES v. BENEDICT.
294

295

Argument for Defendant in Error.

The City of New York succeeded in the Circuit Court
of Appeals to the extent of recovering the value of the
beds of the streets between First Avenue and the high
water line, but was unsuccessful in that it failed to recover
the value of the portions of the streets between the high
water line and the pier line.
The City has accordingly sued out its writ of error to
bring beforethis Court the question of its right to compensation -for the portions of the beds of the, streets in
question between the high water line and the-pier line
approved by the.Secretary of War on March 4, 1890.
The deed conveyed to the City the land within the lines
of the streets to the pier head line.
The deed was within the power of the trustees who executed it, and was in all respects valid and effectual to
convey the premises to the City.
The judgment should be modified by requiring defendant in error to assign to the City of New York an additional portion of the judgrqent recovered against the
United States, representing the compensation, with irterest, awarded for the portions of the streets between the
high water line and the pier head line, to wit, the sum of
$589,731.82.
Mr. Royal E. T. Riggs, with whom Mr. William H. Seibert was on the brief, for defendant in error.
The only question between plaintiff and the United
States is the right to interest and the assignments of error
do not present that question for review.
Just compensation must include interest upon the value
of the property at the time of the taking from the date of
the actual appropriation thereof to the date of payment
therefor.
The Circuit Court of Appeals erred in requiring the
plaintiff to execute and file an assignment of $162,240 of
the judgment to the City of New York because: (a) The

296

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

City had stipulated on the trial that it was entitled to no
relief in this action. (b) The plaintiff was entitled to the
judgment even if the title to the streets was in the City.
(c) Title to the disputed streets was in the plaintiff.
The City's assignments of error presented no claim in
the court below to any part of judgment, and the action of
that court in ordering, the assignment was a plain error
which may be remedied in this Court.
The deed from the trustees if valid conveyed the property with 61st, 62nd and 63rd Streets from Second Avenue
only to "the New York Bay" and terminated at high
water mark. The City cannot claim that the deed carried
to the pier head line of 1890, as that point is not before the
Court under the pleadings. Under the law of New York
the conveyance to "the New York Bay" terminated at
high water mark and such construction is corroborated by
the map attached to the deed.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Relying upon the Lever Act-40 Stat. 276, 279-the
United States took possession of certain land along New
York Bay, April 6, 1918, and, as surviving trustee under
the will of Langley, defendant in error Benedict instituted this proceeding to recover its value. The tract had
been platted into blocks and trustees holding the title
had undertaken to convey to New York City the beds of
designated'avenues " to
61st, 62nd and 63rd streetsjNf
the New York Bay," as laid down on the Commissioners'
map. The City was made defendant to the amended
complaint because of possible interest arising out of this
conveyance. No right of recovery against it was suggested. It answered rather vaguely, but claimed title to
"the lands included within the limits of 61st Street, 62nd
Street and 63rd Street from the westerly side of First
Avenue to the New York Bay," and stated that "the

UNITED STATES v. BENEDICT.
294

297

Opinion of the Court.

area of said streets is 81,120 square feet." It asked that
the complaint be dismissed. Later it moved, without
success, to amend the answer and set up ownership to
the beds of 61st, 62nd and 63rd streets to the pierhead
line.
The cause was tried by the court without a jury. The
United States stipulated that defendant in error had good
title to all the tract, upland and submerged, except such
as lay within 61st, 62nd and 63rd streets to high water
mark. Among the findings of fact which the City proposed is this-"That on April 25, 1899, the said trustees duly executed and delivered to John-Whalen, the then corporation
counsel of the city of New York, a deed granting and
conveying to the city of New York the fee, impressed
with a%trust for street purposes, of the lands included
within the limits of 61st Street, 62nd Street and 63rd
Street from the westerly side of First Avenue to the New
York Bay."
Judgment went against the United States for a. sum
equal to two dollars per square foot of the whole area,
with interest, less cash originally paid. The trial court
held the trustees' deed to the streets invalid; but if valid
that the recovery nevertheless should be for. the same
amount as streets were essential to enjoyment of the
property. 271 Fed. 714.
Writs of error from the Circuit Court of Appeals were
sued out by both defendants. The City assigned as
error-among others-the trial court's refusal to dismiss
the complaint.. By opinion dated January 18, 1922-280
Fed. 76-the court ruled that the City had good title
to the streets, that the judgment of the District Court
was erroneous and a new trial would be awarded unless
out of the recovery defendant in error should assign to it
$162,240-two dollars per square "foot for the platted
streets up to New York Bay, 81,120 square feet as stated

298

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

by the answer. January 28th the trustees so assigned
$162,240, with interest from April 6, 1918, and on January 31st the contested judgment was formally affirmed.
In the Circuit Court of Appeals the City entered no
objection to the arrangement suggested by the opinion.
Its counsel here claim that "the judgment should be
modified by requiring defendant in error to assign to
the City of New York an additional portion oi the judgment recovered against the Unfted States, representing
the compensation, with interest, awarded for the portions
of the streets between the high water line and the pierhead line, to wit, the sum of $589,731.82."
The situation is a peculiar one. The City asked, not
for recovery, but to be dismissed. Of its own motion and
off the record, the court proposed a method of settlement
which the trustee adopted in preference to reversal.
These unusual circumstances required the City to act
promptly if it did not approve. After nearly three
months it took a writ of error and now seeks to reverse
the judgment because a greater sum was not awarded.
We think it may not deny voluntary acceptance of the
assignment and full assent to the arrangement which
defendant in error carried out with the obvious purpose
of ending the controversy between them. It cannot hold
what it accepted and demand more. The. final judgment
must be treated as though entered upon its express consent; and its writ of error is accordingly dismissed.
The United States object to the judgment -because
interest was allowed from date of the taking. This point
has been discussed and determined in Seaboard Air Line
Ry. Co. v..United States, decided today, post, 299, and
needs no further elaboration. As to the United States,
the judgment below is
Affirmed.

