O

OCTOBER TERM,' 1922.
261 U..S.

Argument for Appellant.

OMNIA CQMMERCIAL COMPANY,
UNITED STATES.

INC., v.

APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 229.

Argued March 1, 1923.-Decided April 9, 1923.

1. A valuable contract right is property within the meaning of the
Fifth Amendment, and when taken for public use must be paid for
by the Government; but when it is lost or injured as a consequence
of lawful governmental action not a taking, the law affords no
remedy. P. 508.
2. When the Government, for war purposes, requisitioned the entire
production of a steel manufacturer, rendering impossible and unilawful of performance an outstanding contract between the manufacturer and a customer, the customer's rights were not taken by
the Government, but frustrated by its lawful action. P. 511.
56 Ct. Clms. 392, affirmed.

APPEAL from a judgment of the Court of Claims dismissing a petition on demurrer.
Mr. George Maurice Morris, with whom Mr. Frederick
N. Watriss, Mr. Melvin G. Palliserand Mr. William S.,
Thompson were on the briefs, for appellant.
Ii the year 1916, five associated individuals owned machinery, mill equipment, structural steel, real property,
water and rail rights, all in condition for the erection and
operation of a steel plate mill. After months of negotiations; the associates sold, in May, 1917, all their rights in
these assets to the Allegheny Steel Company of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. The agreed value of these properties was $3,705,000. The consideration moving from the
Allegheny Steel Company was to be paid, $500,000 in
cash and the remainder in 58,000 tons of steel plate to be
delivered to the associates' order in equal monthly instalments during 1918 upon the payment by the associates of
a price $3,205,000, below the minimum market value of
such -plates.

OMNIA CO. v. UNITED STATES.
"502

Argument for Appellant.

The associates then formed two corporations in which
they were the sole stockholders, officers'and directors.
These corporations succeeded to the rights of the associates in their contract with the Allegheny Steel Company
for 1918. To the appellant corporation was conveyed the
right to receive 18,000 tons of the total 58,000 tons.
The contract between the.appellant and the Allegheny
Steel Company required the posting of letters of credit in
favor of the Allegheny Steel Company. The appellant
posted $2,370,000 in such letters in due season and form.
These letters of credit enabled the Allegheny Steel Company to procure and it did, procure the raw materials
necessary to perform its contract with the appellant. The
appellant then sold the entire 18,000 tons of plate due
under its contract to responsible parties who established
satisfactory credits.
By reason of 'the subsequent taking by the United
Stateg, the loss of the appellant was $990,000. This was
the value of the consideration paid by the assignors of
the appellant to the Allegheny Steel Company for the ap'pellant's contract with that company.
Rights under a lawful and binding contract constitute
property in the holder and are property within the Fifth
Amendment.
By reason of its contract, the appellant accuired, in
addition to those rights common to all purchasers under
a contract, the right to-receive the finished product; the
right to sj~ecify, within the capacity of the seller's mills,
the gauge and size of the steel plate rolled; the right to
inspect the product as it should be manufactured; the
right to pay for the plate delivered at the times and in the
manner provided; the right to specify the place of delivery; and, finally and most important, the right to have
the plate delivered during the year.1918 in approximately
equal monthly quantities. To the appellant was assigned
118/58 of the expected entire production of the Allegheny
Steel Company for the year 1918:.

504

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Appellant.

261 U. S.

It should be apparent that, by reason of its contracts
with the assignors of the appellants, the Allegheny Steel
Company was richer in equipment capacity and credit to
the extent of $3,200,000. By reason of the preliminary
performance by the appellant of its contract with the
Allegheny Steel Company the latter had purchased sufficient raw materials to manufacture the steel plate for the
appellant. The Court is as capable as the appellant of
visioning the material benefit these performances by the
appellant and its assignors brought to the United States
when the officers requisitioned the producing capacity of
the Allegheny Steel Company's plant.
These benefits, which the appellant had purchased and
the returns from which it was due to receive from the
Allegheny Steel Company, were as verily taken by the
United States as though the officers of the United States
had caused to be substituted in the appellant's contract
with the Steel Company the name of the United States
wherever there appeared the name of the appellant.
Not only, however, did the officers of the United States
take the benefits for which the appellant had paid, but
they destroyed whatever benefit there was in the rights
which the appellant had in its contract, saving only the
right to be fairly compensated for its loss. From the
appellant was taken the use, possession and disposal of
the steel plates it had a right to receive from the Steel
Company and which it had already sold. With that went
the entire material benefit of all the appellant's rights
under its contract. What had been valuable, worth nearly
a.million dollars, was gone; taken for the public use; lawfully taken, yes, but lawfully compensated for, no.
In practically every case where the taking of intangible
rights has been, alleged, the plea has been made by the
sovereign power that it actually took nothing from the
owner; often that it received no benefit from the owner's
loss. A good deal of loose thinking has been 'cloaked

OMNIA CO. v. UNITED STATES.
502

Argument for Appellant.

under the charge that the injuries were "consequential."
These arguments, or their equivalent, were raised in the
two leading cases of Pumpelly v. Green Bay & Mississippi
Canal Co., 13 Wall. 166, and United States v. Lynah, 188
U. S. 445. Yet the decisions in those cases stand for the
proposition that, where-real property, while not actually
reduced to possession by the Government, has necessarily
had its actual usefulness destroyed by reason of the exercise of the power of eminent domain, a taking has resulted
and compensation is due. These conclusions are built
upon the principle that, where the sovereign power considers the general result to be accomplished is for the public good, the interest of the individual which must be sacrificed for the community purpose is to be measured, not
by the direct value to the public, but by the value to the
individual of the right taken. This, it is submitted, is the
universal doctrine.
Monongahela Navigation Co. v: United States, 148
U. S. 312, announced the proposition that, where an exercise of the sovereign power of appropriation at the same
time necessarily destroys the value to the owner of an
intangible contract right which depends for its value upon
the free use, possession and disposition of the tangible
property upon which it is founded, there also we have a
taking of property for which compensation must be made.
In Long Island Water Supply Co. v. Brooklyn, 166
U. S: 685, a water company was possessed of its physical
equipment, franchises to operate, and in addition a contract with the city to supply the city with water. See
also Award of the Tribunal of Arbitration between the
United States of America and the Kingdom of Norway,
under the special agreement of June 30, 1921, p. 31; Cornwall v. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co., 87 Ky. 72;
Trustees v. Atlanta, 93 Ga. 468; Cincinnativ. Louisville
& Nashville R. R. Co., 223 U. S.390; West River Bridge
v. D&:, 6 How. 507; Richmond) etc., R. R. Co. v. Louisa

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Appellant.

261 U. S.

R. R. Co., 13 How. 71; Greenwood v. Union FreightR. R.
Co., 105 U. S. 13.
Where A is the owner and B the lessee, an appropriation by the State 6f A's property is a taking of B's property and B must be compensated as well as A. Kohl v.
United States, 91 U. S. 367; United States v. Inlots, Fed.
Case No. 15,441a; Matter of City of New York, 120 App.
Div. 700. A lessee is entitled to compensation when by
the appropriation of the freehold his right of renewal is
destroyed. Matter of City of New York, 118 App. Div.
865, affd. 189 N. Y. 508. Here we have a value in the
lessee which is over and above the total value of the property; and no attention paid the city's contention that it
does not seek to use the lessee's property.
An even closer analogy is to be found in Meade v.
United States, 2 Ct. Clms. 224; Gray v. United States,
21 Ct. Clms. 340; and Cushing v. United States, 22 Ct.
Clms. 1. In these cases the claimants were the owners
of valid claims against foreign governments whicl this
Government surrendered by treaties. See also Morris
Canal & Banking Corporationv. Townsend, 24 Barb. 658.
The facts are that the United States seized the appellant's rights to priority in a definitely assigned portion
of the entire manufacturing capacity of the Allegheny
Steel Company for the year 1918, and then devoted that
capacity to producing the very same plates of steel for
which the appellant had contracted, and produced. this
steel from the very raw material which had been purthased by the Steel Company for the performance of the
appellant's contract,-a purchase which had been made
possible by reason of the appellant's performance of its
initial obligation under the contract. We stand upon the
proposition that the United States, by reason of prohibiting the performance of the appellant's contract with the
Steel Company and devoting the manufacturing capacity
of the plant fqr 1918 to the purposes of the United States,

OMNIA CO. v. UNITED STATES.
502

50i/

Opinion of the Court.

took for the public use the proper.ty of the appellant; that
the United States received a benefit from this property of
the appellant; and that, whether or. not it received such'
benefit, the destruction of the appellant's rights by.the action of the United States constituted a taking, within the
meaning of the Fifth Amendment, and "compensation.
should be made therefor.
If the-property right, existed;' and if it was taken for'
public use, then, on the authority of the following cases,
the United States is under an implied contract to pay
reasonable compensation. 'United States v. Lynah, 188
U. S. 445; United States v. Great Falls Mfg. Co., 112 U. S.
645; Hollister v. Benedict & Burnham Mfg. Co., 113 U. S.
59; United States v. Palmer, 128 -U. S. 262; United States
v. BerdanFire-Arms Mfg. Co.j 156 U. S. 5"52.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Riter, with whom M.
Solicitor General Beck and Mr. H. L. Underwood were on
the brief, for the United Statesi
MR. JusTicE SUTHERLANID delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The appellant, on May.19, 1917, by assignment, became the owner of a contract, by which it acquired the
right to purchase a large quantity of steel plate from the
Alleghehy SteeI Company, of Pittsburgh, at a price under
the market. The contract was of great value and if carried out would have produced large profits.
In October, 1917, before any deliveries had been made,
the United States Government requisitioned the Steel
Company's entire production of steel plate for the year
1918, and directed that company not.to comply with the
terms of appellant's contract, declaring that if an attempt
was made to do so the entire plant of the Steel Company
would be taken over and operated for the public use.
Appellant brought an action in the Court of Claims
alleging, in addition to*the foregoing, that by the orders

508

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

of the Government the performance of the contract by
the Steel Company had been rendered unlawful and impossible; that the effect was to take for the public use
appellant's right of priority to the steel plate expected
to be produced by the Steel Company and thereby appropriate for public use appellant's property in the contract.
As a result it alleged that it had incurred losses in a large
sum which it sought to recover, as just compensation, by
virtue of Article V of the Constitution. To this petition
the United States interposed a demurrer, which was sustained and the petition dismissed. From this judgment
the case comes here by appeal.
A question is raised as to the statutory authority of the
officer, who made the order of requisition and gave the
directions respecting non-compliance with the contract, to
bind the Government, but, for the purposes of the case,
we assume he was authorized, as he could have been under
39 Stat. 1193, c. 180; or 40 Stat. 182-183, c. 29. We also
pass, without deciding, a contention challenging the sufficiency of the complaint and come to the case on the
merits.
The contract in question was property within the meaning of the Fifth Amendment, Long Island Wdter Supply
Co. v. Brooklyn, 166 U. S. 685, 690; Cincinnati v. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co., 223 U. S. 390,400, and if taken
for public use the Government would be liable. But destruction of, or injury to, property is frequently accomplished without a "taking" in the constitutional sense.
To prevent the spreading of a fire, property may be destroyed without compensation to the owner, Bowditch v.
Boston, 101 U. S. 16, 18; a doctrine perhaps to some
extent resting on tradition. Pennsylvania Coal Co. v.
Mahon, 260 U. S. 393. There are many laws and governmental operations which injuriously affect the value
of or destroy property-for example, restrictions upon the
height or character of buildings, destruction of diseased

OMNIA CO. v. UNITED STATES.
502

Opinion of the Court..

cattle, trees, etc., to prevent contagion-but for which no
remedy is afforded. Contracts in this respect do not differ
from other kinds of property. See Calhoun v. Massie,
253 U. S.170, where an act of Congress invalidating contracts made with attorneys for compensation exceeding a
certain percentage for the prosecution of claims against
the Government, was sustained, although it had the effect
of putting an end to an existing contract. This Court
said (pp. 175-176):
"An appropriate exercise by a State of its police power
is consistent with the Fourteenth Amendment, although
it results in serious depreciation of property values; and
the United States may, consistently with' the Fifth
Amendment, impose for a permitted purpose, restrictions
upon property which produce like results. Lottery Case,
188 U. S. 321, 357; Hipolite Egg Co. v. 'United States,
220 U. S. 45, 58; Hoke v. United States, 227 U. S.308, 323;
Hamilton v. Kentucky Distilleries& Warehouse Co., 251
U. S.146. The sovereign right of the Government is not
less because the property affected happens to be a contract. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Mottley, 219
U. S. 467, 484; Union Dry Goods Co. v. Georgia Public
Service Corporation,248 U. S.372."
In Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co. v. Mottley, 219 U. S.
467, it was held that an act of Congress, prohibiting the
issuance of free transportation by interstate common carriers which invalidated a contract for transportation previously entered into and valid when made, did not have
the effect of taking private property without compensation. The Court, speaking through Mr. Justice Htarlan,
said (p. 484):
"It is not determinative of the present question that
the commerce act as now construed will render the contract of no value for the purposes for which it was made.
In Knox v. Lee, 12 Wall. 457, above cited, the court, refer-

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U.S.

ring to the Fifth Amendment, which forbids the taking of
private property for public use without just compensation or due process of law, said: 'That provision has
always been understood as referring only to a direct
appropriation, and not to consequential injuries resulting
from the exercise of lawful power. It has never been supposed to have any bearing upon or to inhibit laws that
indirectly work harm and loss to individuals. A new
tariff, an embargo, a draft, or a war, may inevitably bring
upon individuals great losses; may, indeed, render valuable property almost valueless. They may destroy the
Worth of contracts.'"
The conclusion to be drawn from these and other cases
which might be cited is, that for consequential loss or
injury resulting from lawful governmental action, the law
affords no remedy. The character of the power exercised
is not material. Chicago, Burlington& Quincy Ry.Co. v.
DrainageCommissioners, 200 U. S. 561, 583-585, 592-593.
If, under any power, a contract or other property is taken
for public use, the Government is' liable; but if injured
or des troyed by lawful action, without a taking, the Government is not liable. What was here requisitioned was
the future product of the Steel Company, and, since this
product in the absence of governmental interference
would have been delivered in fulfillment of the contract,
the contention seems to be that the contract was so far
identified. with it that the taking of the former, ipso facto,
took.the latter. This, however, is to confound the contract with its subject-matter. The essence of every executory contract is the obligation which the law imposes
upon the parties to perform it. "It [the contract] may
be defined to be a transaction between two or more persons, in which each party comes under an obligation to
the other, and each reciprocally acquires a right to whatever is promised by the other." Dartmouth College v.
Woodward, 4 Wheat. 629, 656. Plainly, here there was

OMNIA (3O. v. UNITED STATES.
502

51i

Opinion of the Court.'

no acquisition of the obligation or the right to enforceo it.
If the Steel Company had failed to comply' with the
requisition, what would have been the remedy? Not enforcement of the conttact but enforcement of the statute.
If the Government had failed to pay for what it got What
would have, been the right of the Steel Company? Not
to the price fixed-by the contract but to the just compensation guaranteed by the Constitution.
In exercising the power to requisition, the Government
dealt only with the Steel Company, which companythereupon became liable to deliver its product t6 the Government, by. virtue of the statutb and in response to the
order. As*a result of this lawful governmental action the
performance of the contract was-rendered impossible. It
was not appropriated but ended. - ' "
Parties and a subject-matter are necessary to the existence of a contract, but neither constitutes any part of
it-the 'contract consists in the agreement- and obligation
to perform. If one makes acontract for the-personal
services 6f another or for the sale and delivery of property, the Government, by drafting one of the parties into
the army, or by requisitioning the subject-matter, .does
not thereby take the contract. In Marshall v. Glan l,
[1917], 2 K. B. 87, the plaintiff had been employed by
the defendants upon a contract of service. While the
agreement was in force the former was called into the
military service. It was held that this put an end to.the
contract. The court said:
"Here the parties clearly made their bargain -on the
footing that it should continue lawful for the plaintiff to
render and for the defendants to accept his services. The
rendering and acceptance of these services ceased to be
lawful in July, 1916, and thereupon the bargain came to
an .end."
The American and English cases all agree tha;t the result is the same where the subject-matter of the contract

512

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

is requisitioned. Texas Co. v. HogarthShipping Co., 256
U. S. 619, 629-631; The Claveresk, 264 Fed. 276, 282-284;
The Frankmere,262 Fed. 819, 822; In re Shipton, Anderson-& Co. [1915], 3 K. B. 676; Steamship Co. v. Le
Nickel Societ6 Anonyme, 8 British Ruling Cases, 546;
Bank Line, Limited, v. Arthur Capel & Co. [1919], A. C.
435, 445.
In The Frankmere, supra, where a ship under charter
was requisitioned by the British Government, the court
said that
" .
the contract was thereby frustrated when the
government took possession of the ship, and the rights
of the charterer were absolutely ended and terminated,
and those of the owner, subject, however, to the paramount power of the government to use the ship, without
consulting the desire of the owner, revived, as though the
charter had never been entered into."
In In re Shipton, Anderson & Co., supra, a parcel of
wheat then lying in a warehouse was sold, for future payment and delivery. The wheat was subsequently requisitioned by the English Government, and, in consequence,
the sellers were unable to deliver. A claim for damages
was put forward against the sellers, but the Court of
King's Bench Division held that they were not liable,
upon the ground that performance had become impossible
.without their fault. Darling, Justice, agreeing with the
opinion of Lord Reading, said (pp. 683-684):
"If one eontracts to do what is then illegal, the contract
itself is altogether bad. If after the contract has been
made it cannot be performed without what is illegal being
done, there is no obligation to perform it. In the one
case the making of the contract, in the other case the performance of it, is against public policy. It must be here
presumed that the Crown acted legally, and there is no
contention to the contrary. We are in a state of war;
that is notorious. The subject-matter of this contract

OMNIA CO. v. UNITED STATES.
502

Opinion of the Court.

has been seized by the State acting for the general good.
Salus populi suprema lex is a good maxim, and the enforcement of that essential law gives no right of action
to whomsoever may be injured by it."
In the present case the effect of the requisition was to
bring the contract to an end, not to keep it alive for the
use of the Government.
The Government took over during the war railroads,
steel mills, ship yards, telephone and telegraph lines, the
capacity output of factories and .other producing activities. If appellant's contention is sound the Government
thereby took and became liable to pay for an appalling
number of existing contracts for future service or delivery,
the performance of which its action made impossible.
This is inadmissible. Frustration and appropriation are
essentially different things.
There is nothing in Monongahela Navigation Co. v.
United States, 148 U. S. 312, or in the other cases cited
by appellant, which in any way conflicts with what we
have said.
In the MonongahelaCase the property which was taken
was a lock and dam, built by the company, pursuant to
the invitation of the United States and the State of Penn-.
sylvania, the latter, in consideration, giving the company
a franchise to exact tolls. The franchise, therefore, was
not merely a contract in respect of the property taken,
but was an integral part of it, and this Court (p. 329)
said:
"So, before this property can be taken away from its
owners, the whole value must be paid; and the value
depends largely upon the productiveness of the property,
the franchise to take tolls."
The lock and dam constituted, in effect, a going concern,
whose value was of course affected by what it would produce. Moreover, the case rested primarily upon the doctrine of estoppel, as this Court has in several cases since

514

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

261 U. S.

pointed out. Greenleaf Lumber Co. v. Garrison, 237
U. S. 251, 264; Lewis Blue Point Oyster Co. v. Briggs,
229 U. S. 82.
In Long Island Water Supply Co. v. Brooklyn, 166
U. S. 685, the statute providing for condemnation ex-.
pressly included contracts, and these were in fact' taken
and compensatioi therefor specifically allowed. This
was pointed out in the opinion of this Court (p. 691):
"In other words, the condemnation proceedings did not
repudiate the contract but appropriated it and fixed its
value."
We have examined the other cases relied upon but find
nothing to justify a conclusion other than that which we
have reached.
The judgment of the court below is
Affirmed.
RUSSELL MOTOR CAR COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
FREYGANG ET AL., PARTNERS DOING BUSINESS
UNDER THE NAME OF MIDLAND BRIDGE
COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
ALBERT & J.M. ANDERSON MANUFACTURING
COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEALS FROM THE COURT OF CLIIMS.

Nos. 485, 480, 740.

Argued March 6, 1923.-Decided April 9, 1923.

1. The Act of June 15, 1917, c. 29, 40 Sta't. 182, empowered the
President, within the limits of amounts appropriated, "to modify,
suspend, cancel, or requisition any existing or future contract for
the building, production, or purchase of ships or material," and
to exercise the authority "through such agency .or agencies as he
shall determine from time to time," "material" being defined
as including stores, supplies and equipment for ships and everything required for or in connection with the productibn :thereof.

