OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

THE PAGE COMPANY v. MACDONALD, &c., A
RESIDENT OF THE PROVINCE OF OTTAWA IN
THE DOMINION OF CANADA, &c.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF MASSACHUSETTS.

No. 308. Argued March 13, 1923.-Decided April 9, 1923.
1. A non-resident defendant to an action in the District Court is
immfte to service- of process therein while present within the District as a party to litigation in a state court attending a hearing
before a special master. P. 447.
2. This exemption from service is the privilege of the court before
which the party is attending rather than the privilege of. the party
himself. P. 448.
3. Where the action in which service is attempted is for an alleged
libel in his pleadings on file in the case upon which he is attending,
he can not be adjudged to have forfeited his immunity upon the
theory that the libel was still being committed, through such pleadings, to the time when the attempted service was made. Id.
Affirmed.
ERROR to a judgment of the District Court sustaining a
plea in abatement to an action for libel.

Mr. Asa P. French for plaintiff in error;
Mr. Weld A. Rollins for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The Page Company brought suit in the District Court
of the United States for the District of Massachusetts
against the defendant in error for libel, constituted, it-was
alleged, by allegations in a certain bill of complaint which
was filed by her against that company in a Superior Court
of Massachusetts.
A question of jurisdiction in the sense of immunity
from process is presented. Plaintiff in error is .a Massa,

PAGE CO. v. MACDONALD.
446

Opinion of the Court.

chusetts corporation, defendant in error, a resident and
citizen of Leaskdale, Ontario, Canada.
The Page Company brought this suit against defendant in error alleging her suit against it, the Page Company, was a deliberate and malicious libel, its statements
having been made "with full information and knowledge
that they were false," and for the purpose of injuring the
Company's reputation. Damages were prayed.
The facts are stipulated and are condensed by the District Court as follows: "The facts on which this plea is
grounded are not in dispute: Mrs. Macdonald brought a
suit in equity against the Page Company in the State
Court. The Page Company, claiming that certain state-.
ments made by her in the bill were libelous and actionable, brought the present action at law against Mrs.
Macdonald. in this court; and service was made upon her
while she was in the District 'in attendance before '
Special Master appointed by the Superior Court to hear
the parties and their evidence'

.

.

.

in the other case.

She has pleaded in abatement of this action that she was
immune from service while within the District for the
purpose stated."
The court decided "that the plea [in abatement] is
good ind that the action must be abated ", citing Stewart
v. Ramsay,*242 U. S. 128; Larned v. Griffin, 12 Fed. 590;
Diamond v. Earle, 217 Mass. 499.
The Page Company, contesting the ruling and the application of the cases cited to sustain it, contends that
immunity cannot be claimed and sustained from the judicial process of a different sovereignty.
In. Diamond v. Earle and Stewart v. Ramsay, it is said
"Both courts were exercising jurisdiction conferred by
the same sovereignty ". It is, necessarily, a condition of
the contention, that the "Federal Court in Massachusetts
is a foreign court within the principle."
We are unable to concur. A federal court in a State is
not foreign and antagonistic to a court of the State

448

-OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U.S.

within the principle and, therefore, as said in Stewart v.
Ramsay, supra, "suitors, as well as witnesses, coming
from another State or jurisdiction, are exempt from the
service of civil process while -in attendance upon court,
and during a reasonable time in coming and going." And
we can add nothing to what is said in support of the Yule.
"It is founded" it is said, "in the necessities of the judicial administration ", and the courts, federal and state,
have equal interest in those necessities. They are both
instruments of judicial administration within the same
territory, available to suitors, fully available, neither they
nor their witnesses subject to be embarrassed or vexed
while attending, the one,-"for the protection of his
rights ", the others "while attending to testify."
The next contention of the Page Company' is that defendant in-error "forfeited her right to claim and obtain
immunity from the service here questioned by using the
state court as a medium for the publication of a deliberate
and malicious libel concerning this plaintiff [the Page
Company] as to matters not material to any issue raised
by the bill in her sit against this plaintiff, to testify in
which she came to Massachusetts." It must be assumed,
is the further cbntention, to be a libel, "a continuing
tort, potentially and actually working injury to the plaintiff down to and at the moment of the service.upon defendant of the process in this suit."
The contention has strength upon first impression
-which -disappears upon reflection on the purpose of the
principle and the necessity of its inflexibility. The service
of process is upon the individual but the exemption from
its requirement is something more than a privilege to
him. It is "the privilege of the court ", we have seen,
rather than his. "It is fonded in the necessities of the
judicial administration." Besides, it cannot be assumed
as plaintiff in error does, that the pleading in her suit
against plaintiff in error was false and a tort, and on that

PHIPPS v. CLEVELAND REFG. CO.
446

449

Opinion: of the Court.

assumption deny her the immunity to which she is entitled. The truth or falsity of the pleadings is not to be
assumed, it is to be established.
Judgment affirmed.
PHIPPS AND PHIPPS, AS DIRECTOR OF THE DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE OF THE STATE OF
OHIO, v. CLEVELAND REFINING COMPANY OF
CLEVELAND, OHIO.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.

No. 324.

Argued March 15, 1923.-De'cided April 9, 1923.

A state law applicable to interstate and intrastate cpmmerce, which
imposes fees for the inspection, of petroleum products in excess
of the legitimate cost of inspection, imposes a tax and is void, if
not so far separable that the excess may properly be assigned to
intrastate commerce alone. P. 451.
277 Fed. 463, affirmed.
APPEAL from an interlocutory decree of the District
Court restraining the collection of fees for inspection of
petroleum products.

Mr. William J. Meyer, with whom Mr. John G. Price,
Attorney General of the State of Ohio, Mr. John M.
Parks and Mr. Ray Martin were on the brief., for appellant.
Mr. Charles D. Chdmberlin, with whom Mr. Hubert B.
Fullerwas on the brief, for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE MCKENNA

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The Cleveland Company is a dealer in petroleum products and brought this suit to restrain the execution of an
act passed by the General Assembly of Ohio, May 19,

