OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

261 U. S.

amount should be allowed to reimburse claimant for expenditures incurred at- the plant in the early months of
1918, when it was idle because of the Government's delay
in supplying goods for finishing. Some allowance"for expenses incurred during that period was allowed under
the fifth cause of action and is included in the $47,700.08
for which judgment was entered. For awarding more
there is no basis in the findings. ,No request for additional findings appears to have been made below. Nor
was leave sought there, or here, to reopen the case so that

additional evidence could be introduced;
made are conclusive.'

THE NEW EN -LAND

The findings
Affirmed..

]5IVISIONS CASE.2

APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 646. Argued January 9, 10, 1923.-Decided February 19, 1923.
1. Section 418 of the Transportation Act, 1920, authorizes the
Interstate Commerce Commission, when establishing divisions of
joint rates, to -consider not only what is- just, reasonable and
equitable as between all the carriers participating, but also. the
financial needs of particular carriers which should be supplied, in
the public interest, in order to maintain them in effective operation
as pan of an adequate transportation system. P. 189.
2. Where joint rates among a group of carriers were increased by
the Commission with special reference to the financial necessities
of a part of them, a division, subsequently ordered, which gave the
needy carriers a relatively greater share, to meet those necessities,
but left the share of the others adequate to avoid a confiscatory
'There is nothing in Roxford Knitting Co. v. Moore & Tierney,
265 Fed. 177, or in United States v. Russell, 13 Wall. 623, which were
relied upon by claimant, that lends support to its contention.
2 The docket title of this case is:- Akron, Canton*& Youngstown
Railway Company v. United States, Interstate Commerce Commisueon, Boston & Maine Railroad, et al.

NEW ENGLAND DIVISIONS CASE.
184

185

Counsel for -Parties.

result, did not deprive them of their property without .due process
of law. P. 195.
3. In fixing divisions of numerous joint rates of numerous carriers,
the Commission is not required by either the Transportation Act
or the Constitution, to take specific evidence and make separate
adjudication as to each division of each rate of each carrier, but
may order a general increase of divisions to the carriers in a specified territory, basing this on evidence which the Commission deems
typical in character, and ample in quantity, to justify it in respect
of each division of rate involved. P. 196.
4. An order of the Commission for a general increase of divisions
to some of many carriers, made after opportunity for a full hearing
had been afforded to all, did not exceed the authdrity conferred, by
§ 418 of the Transportation Act, or deprive the other carriers
of revenues without due process, merely because the Commission
recognized that the results would not all be accurate and that
changes must be made upon future investigation. P. 199.
5. An order of the Commission fixing divisions of joint rates among
a group of carriers by awarding a horizontal 15% increase to those
west of a certain river and leaving the others to. divide their proportions according to existing or future agreements or through
further applications to the Commission, held proper and sufficient.
P. 201.
6. The order here involved was supported by the vidence before the
Commission. P. 203.
7. The Court cannot consider the weight of evidence before .the
Commission or the wisdom of its order. Id.
282 'Fed. 306, affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court refusing an
interlocutory injunction in a suit to set aside an order of
the Interstate Commerce Commission.

Mr. Walter C. Noyes, with whom. Mr. H.*T.'Neivcomb
was on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. Herbert A. Taylor, with whom Mr. George F.
Brownell was on the brief, for Erie R. R. Co. and Chicago.
& Erie R. R. Co., appellants.
Mr. Alexander H. Elder for Central R. Rt. Co. of New
Jersey, appellant.

186

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

Mr. Charles F. Choate, Jr., with whom Mr. James Garfield was on the brief, for Boston & Maine Railroad et al.,
interveners.
Mr. Blackburn Esterline,Assistant to the Solicitor General, with whom Mr. Attorney General Daugherty and
Mr. Solicitor General Beck were on the brief, for the
United States.
Mr. Walker D. Hines, with whom Mr. P. J. Farrelland
Mr. J. Carter Fort were on the brief, for the Interstate
Commerce Commission.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

delivered the opinion of -the

Court.
Transportation Act, 1920, c. 91, § 418, 41 Stat. 456,
486, amending Interstate Commerce Act, § 15(6), authorizes the Commission, upon complaint or upon its own
initiative, to prescribe, after full hearing, the divisions
of joint rates among carriers parties to the rate. In determining the divisions, the Commission is directed to give
due consideration, among other things, to the importance
to the public of the transportation service rendered by the
several carriers; to their revenues, taxes, and operating
expenses; to the efficiency with which the carriers concerned are operated; to the amount required to pay a fair
return on their railway property; to the fact whether a
particular carrier is an original, intermediate, or delivering line; and to any other fact which would, ordinarily,
without regard to the mileage haul, entitle one carrier to a
greater or less proportion than another of the joint rate.
Iivoking this power of the Commission, the railroads of.
New England ' instituted, in August, 1920, proceedings to
'Except the Boston & Albany which is leased to the New York

Central, one of the Trunk Lines which was a respondent before the
Commission; and branches of two *Canadian systems, the Grand
Trunk and the Canadian Pacific.

NEW ENGLAND DIVISIONS CASE.
184

Opinion of the Court.

secure for themselves larger divisions from the freight
moving between that section and the rest of the United
States, the joint rates on which had just been increased
pursuant to the order entered in Ex parte 74, Increased
Rates, 1920, 58 I. C. C. 220. More than 600 carriers of
the United States, mostly railroads, were made respondents. The case was submitted on voluminous evidence.
On July 6, 1921, a report was filed.- The relief sought
was not then granted; but no order was entered. Instead,
the parties were directed by the report to proceed individually to readjust their divisional arrangements; and
the record was held open for submission of the readjustment; New England Divisions, 62 I. C. C. 513. This
direction was not acted on. Five months later the case
was reargued upon the same evidence. On January 30,
1922, the Commission modified its findings and made an
order (amended March 28, 1922) which directed, in substance, that the divisions, or shares, of the several New
England railroads 2 in the joint through freight rates be
increased fifteen per cent., New England Divisions, 66
I. C. C. 196. Since it did not increase any rate, it necessarly reduced the aggregate amounts receivable from each
rate by carriers operating west of Hudson River. The
order was limited to joint class rates and those joint commodity rates which are divided on the same basis as the
class rates.3 It related only to transportation wholly.
within the United States. It was to continue in force only
until further order of the Commission. And it left the
door open for correction upon application of any carrier
in respect to any rate.
Other than the Bangor & Aroostook, which had *been a complainant before the Commission; and the Boston & Albany, which had not.
',Thus, the order does not include traffic passing through Canada.

Nor does it apply to rates on coal (which constitutes about two
fifths of the total interchanged tonnage); nor to those on certain
other commodities.

188

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

Prior to the effective date of that order, there was in
force between each of the New England carriers and substantially each of the railroads operating west of the Hudson, a series of contracts providing for the division of all
joint class rates upon the basis of stated percentages.!
These agreements were in the form of express contracts.
Section 208(b) of Transportation Act, 1920, provided that
all divisions of joint rates in effect at the time of its passage should continue in force until thereafter changed
either by mutual agreement between the interested carriers or by state or federal authorities. The second report enjoined upon all parties the necessity for proceeding,
as expeditiously. as possible, with a revision of- divisions
upon a more logical and systematic basis; made specific
suggestions as to the character of the study to be pursued;
and invited carriers to present to the Commission any
cases of inability to agree upon such revision. No further
application.was, however, made to the Commission.
In March, 1922, this suit was commenced in the federal
court for the Southern District of New York to enjoin
enforcement of the order and to have it set aside as void.
The Akron, Canton & Youngstown Railway and fortythree other carriers 5 joined as plaintiffs, suing on behalf
of themselves and others similarly situated. The United
States alone was named as defendant. But the Interstate
Commerce Commission and ten New England carriers intervened as such, and filed answers. The case was then
heard, on application for an interlocutory injunction, by
'Compare St. Louis Southwestern Ry. Co. v. United States, 245
U. S. 136, 139, note 2; Central R. R. Co. of New Jersey v. United
States, 257 U. S. 247.
1 The number of carriers named as respondents in the order entered
by the Commission is 617. Only 44 of these originally joined as
plaintiffs in this suit. One of these-the Illinois Central-withdrew;
39 intervened later as plaintiffs. Leading trunk lines-New York
Central, the Pennsylvania, and the" Baltimore & Ohio-by which a
large part of all traffic interchanged with the New England railroads
was carried, acquiesced in the Commission's order.

NEW ENGLAND DIVISIONS CASE.
184

189

Opinion of the Court.

three judges under the provisions of Urgent Deficiencies
Act, October 22, 1913, c. 32, 38 Stat. 208, 219. The full
record of the proceedings before the Commission, including all the evidence, was introduced. The injunction was
denied, 282 Fed. 306; and the case is here by direct appeal
Plaintiffs urge six reasons why the order of the Commission should be held void.
First. It is contended that the order is void, because its
purpose was not to establish divisions just, reasonable and
equitable, as between connecting carriers, but, in the public interest, to relieve the financial needs of the New England lines, so as to keep them'in effective operation. The
argument is that Congress did not authorize the Commission to exercise its power to accomplish that purpose. An
order, regular on its face, may, of course, be set aside if
made to accomplish a purpose not authorized. Compare
Southern PacificCo. v. Interstate Commerce Commission,
219 U. S. 433, 443. But the order here assailed is not
subject to that infirmity.
Transportation Act, 1920, introduced into the federal
legislation a new railroad policy. Railroad Commission
of Wisconsin v. Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co.,
257 U. S. 563, 585. Theretofore, the effort of Congress
had been directed mainly to the prevention of abuses;.
particularly, those arising from excessive or discriminatory rates. The 1920 Act sought to ensure, also, adequate
transportation service. That such was its purpose, Congress did not leave to inference. The new purpose was
expressed in unequivocal language0 And t6 attain it, new
6

Thus: to enable the carriers "properly to meet the transportation needs of the public," § 422, p. 491; to give due consideration to
"the transportation needs of the country, . . . and the necessity
of enlarging [transportation] facilities," § 422, p. 488; to
best meet the emergency and serye the public interest," § 402, p.
477; to "best promote the service in the interest of the public and
the commerce of the people," § 402, pp. 476, 477; "that the public

interest will be promoted,"

407, p. 482.

190

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

rights, new obligations, new machinery, were created.
The new provisions took a wide range." Prominent
among them are those specially designed to secure a fair
return on capital devoted to the transportation service."
Upon the Commission, new 1powers were conferred and
new duties were imposed.
The credit of the carriers, as a whole, had been seriously
impaired. To preserve for the nation substantially the
whole transportation system was deemed important. By
many railroads funds were needed, not only for improvement and expansion of facilities, but for adequate main:
tenance. On some, continued operation would be impossible, unless additional revenues were procured. A general rate increase alone would not meet the situation.
7Among them are the establishment of the Railroad Labor and
the Adjustment Boards. Title III, pp. 469-474; See Pennsylvania
R. R. Co. v. United States Railroad Labor Board, ante, 72; the provisions for raising capital, by new Government loans, § 210, pp. 4689, by loans from the Railroad Contingent Fund (the recapture provision), § 15a (10, 16), pp. 490, 491; those placing the issue of new
securities under the control of the Commission, unaffected by the
laws of the several States, § 439, pp. 494-496; the provision for consolidation of railways into a limited number of systems, § 407, pp.
480-482; provisions for securing adequate car service; Lambert Run
Coal Co. v"Baltimore & Ohio R. R. Co., 258 U. S. 377; for joint use
of terminals; for routing; for interchange of traffic between railroads,'
and between a railroad and water carrier, § 402, pp. 476-478; § 405,
p. 479; §§ 412, 413, p. 483.
8Section 422, pp. 488, 489. To this end, also, the Commission was
empowered, among other things, to permit pooling of traffic or earnin-gs, § 407, pp. 480, 481; to authorize abandonment of unprofitable
and unnecessary lines, § 402, p. 477; Texas v. Eastern Texas R. R.
Co., 258 U. S. 204; to fix minimum, as well.as maximum, rates; and
thus prevent cut-throat competition and the taking away of traffic
from weaker competitors, § 418, p. 485; to prevent the depletion of
interstate revenues by discriminating intrastate rates, Railroad Commission of Wisconsin v. Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co., 257
U. S. 563; New Y A, v. United States, 257 U. . 591; and to determine the division o. oint rates.

NEW ENGLAND DIVISIONS CASE.
184

Opinion of the Court.

There was a limit to what the traffic would bear. A five
per cent. increase had been granted in 1914, Five Per Cent.
Case, 31 I. C. C. 351; 32 I. C. C. 325; fifteen per cent. in
1917, Fifteen Per Cent. Case, 45 I.C. -303; twenty-five per
cent. in 1918, General Order of Director General, No. 28.
Moreover, it was not clear that the people would tolerate
greatly increased rates (although no higher than necessary
to produce the 'required revenues of weak lines) if thereby
prosperous competitors earned an unreasonably large return upon the -value of their properties. The existence of
the varying needs of the several lines and of their widely
varying earning power was fully realized. . It was necessary to avoid unduly burdensome rate increases and yet
secure revenues adequate to satisfy the needs of the weak
carriers. To accomplish this two new devices were
adopted: the group system of rate making and the division of joint rates in -the public interest. Through the
former, weak roads were to be helped by recapture from
prosperous competitors of surplus revenues. Through the
latter, the weak were to be helped by preventing needed
revenue from passing to prosperous connections. Thus,
by marshalling the revenues, partly through capital account, it was planned to distribute augmented earnings,
largely in proportion to the carrier's needs. This, it was
hoped, would enable the whole transportation system to
'be maintained, without raising unduly any rate on any
line. The provision concerning divisions was, therefore,
an integral part of the machinery for distributing the
fund expected to be raised by the new rate-fixing sections.
It was, indeed, indispensable.
Raising joint rates for the benefit of the weak carriers
might be the only feasible method of obtaining currently
the needed revenues.' Local rates might already be so
high that':a further increase would kill the local traffic.
The through joint rates might be so low that they could
be raised without proving burdensome. On the other

192

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

hand the revenues of connecting carriers might be ample;
so that any increase of their earnings from joint rates
would be unjustifiable. Where the through traffic would,
under those circumstances, bear an increase of the joint
rates, it might be proper to raise them, and give to the
weak line the whole of the resulting increase in revenue.
That, to some extent, may have been the situation in New
England, when, in 1920, the Commission was confronted
with the duty, under the new § 15a, of raising rates so
as to yield a return of substantially 6 per cent. on the
value of, the property used in the transportation service.
Ex parte 74, Increased Rates, 1920, 58 I. C. C. 220.9
The deficiency in income of the New England lines in
1920 was so great that (even before the raise in wages
ordered by the Railroad Labor Board) an 'increase in
freight revenues of 47.40 per cent. was estimated to be
necessary to secure to them a fair return. On a like estimate, the increased revenues required to give the same
return to carriers in Trunk Line Territory was only 29.76
per cent. and to carriers in Central Freight Association
Territory 24.31 per cent." To have raised the additionalrevenues needed by the New England lines wholly by
raising the rates within Ne'w England-particularly when
rates west of the Hudson were .raised much less-might
have killed New England traffic. Rates there had already
been subjected (besides the three general increases mentioned above) to a special increase, -applicable only to
New England, of about ten per cent. in 1918. Proposed
'There is evidence that the rate per ton per mile received by the
New Haven from freight local to its lines was four times as high-as
the rate per ton per mile, under existing divisions, on freight interchanged by it with carriers west of Hudson River.
1
What is known as Official Classification Territory comprises the
three subdivisions, New England Freight Association Territory; Trunk
Line Association Territory and Central Freight Association Territory.
See map, Five Per Cent. Case, 31 I. C. C. 350.

NEW ENGLAND DIVISIONS CASE.
184

Opinion of the Court.

Increases in New England, 49 I. C. C. 421. A further
large increase in rates local to New England would, doubtless, have provoked more serious competition from auto
trucks and water carriers. For hauls are short and the
ocean is near. Instead of erecting New England into a
separate rate group, the Commission placed it, with the
other two subdivisions of Official Classification Territory,
into the Eastern Group; and ordered that freight rates in
that group be raised 40 per cent. At that rate level the
revenues of the carriers in Trunk- Line and Central
Freight Association territories would, it was asserted,
exceed by 1.48 per cent. what they would have received if
.they had been a separate group. It was estimated that
the excess would be about $25,000,000.1 Substantially
that amount (besides the additional revenue to be raised
otherwise) was said to be necessary to meet the needs: of
the New England lines.
Plaintiffs insist that Transportation Act, 1920, did not,
by its amendment of § 15(6).change, or add to, the factors to be considered by the Commission in passing upon
divisions; that it had, theretofore, been the Commission's
practice to consider all the factors enumerated in
§ 15(6); 12 that this enumeration merely put into statutory- form the interpretation theretofore adopted; that
the only new feature was the grant of authority to enter
upon the enquiry into divisions on the Commission's
initiative; that this authority was conferred in order to
Estimated on the volume of traffic moving in 1919.
F'
'Citing Star Grain and Lumber Co. v. Atchison, Topeka & Santa
Fe Ry. Co., 14 1. C. C. 364, 370; ManufacturersRy. Co. v. St. Louis,
'Iron Mountain & Southern Ry. Co., 21 I. C. C. 304, 313; Investiga
tion of Alleged Unreasonable Rates on Meats, 23 I. C. C. 656, 661;
Class Rates from Chestnut Ridge Railway Stations, 41 I. C. C. 62;
Western Pacific R. R. Co. v. Southern Pacific Co., 55 L C. C.71, 84.
See Low Moor Irn Co. v. Chesapeake & Ohio Ry. Co., 42 1. C. C.
221.

194

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U.S.

protect the short lines, which, because of their weakness,
might refrain from making complaint, for fear of giving
offence; 11 and that the power conferred upon the Commission is coextensive only with the duty imposed on the
carriers by § 400 of Transportation Act, 1920, which
declares that they shall establish "in case of joint
rates . . . just, reasonable, and equitable divisions
thereof as between the carriers subject to this Act participating therein which shall not unduly prefer or prejudice
any of such participating carriers." It is true that § 12
of the Act of June 18, 1910, c. 309, 36 Stat. 539, 551, 552,
which first conferred upon the Commission authority to
establish or adjust divisions, 4 did not, in terms, confer
upon the Commission power to act on its own initiative.
The language of the act seemed to indicate that the
authority was to be exercised only when the parties failed
to agree among themselves, and only in supplement to
some order fixing the rates.1" The extent of the Commission's power was a subject of doubt; and Transportation Act, .1920, undertook by § 15(6) to remove doubts
which had arisen. But Congress had, also, the broader
purpose explained above. This is indicated, among other
things, by expressions used in dealing with joint rates.
By new § 15(6), p. 486, the Commission is directed to
give due consideration, in determining divisions, to "the
importance to the public of the transportation services of
" Citing H. R. No. 456, pp. 9, 10, 66th Cong., 1st sess.; Conference
Report No. 650, 66th Cong., 2d sess,;,Mr. Esch, 59 Cong. Rec., part
4, p. 3268; Senator Robinson, 59 Cong. Rec., part 4, p. 3331.
'Power to establish through routes and joint rates had been conferred by § 4 of the Hepburn Act, June 29, 1906, o. 3591, 34 Stat. 584,
'590.
'Compare Morgantown & Kingwood Divisions, 49 I. C. C. 540.
The section was involved in Tap Line Cases, 234 U. S. 1, 28; O'Keefe
v. United States, 240 U. S. 294, 300; Manufacturers Ry. Co. v.
United States, 246 U. S. 457, 480, 483; Louisiana & Pine Bluff Ry.
Co. v. UnitedStates, 257 U. S. 114, 118.

NEW ENGLAND DIVISIONS CASE.
184

195

Opinion of the Court.

such carriers; "'s just as by new § 15(3), page 485, the
Commission- is authorized upon its own initiative when
"desirable in the public interest" to establish joint rates
and "the divisions of such rates".
Second. It is contended that if the act be construed as
authorizing such apportionment of a, joint rate on the
basis of the greater needs of particular carriers, it is
unconstitutional. There is no claim that the apportionment results in confiscatory rates, nor is there in this
record, any basis for such a contentibA.- 7The agument
is that the division of a joint *rateis essenfially a palrition
of property; that the rate must be--divlet[orthmbals
of the services rendered by the several carriers; that
there is no difference between taking part of one's just
share of a joint rate and taking from a carrier-part of the
cash in its treasury; and, thus, that apportionment according to needs is a taking of property without due
process. But the argurment begs the question. What is
its just share?-It is the amount properly apportioned
out of the joint rate. That amount is to be determined,
not by an agreement of the parties or by mileage. It is
to be fixed by the Commission; fixed at what that board
finds to be just, reasonable and equitable. Cost of the
service is one of the elements in rate making. It may be
just to give the prosperous carrier a smaller proportion
of the increased rate than of the original rate. Whether
the rate is reasonable may depend largely upon the disposition which is to be made of the revenues derived
therefrom.
In thus making clear that in fixing divisions as well as rates the
public interest should be considered, Congress doubtless had in mind
expression to the contrary in opinions of the Commission. See Germain Co. v. New Orleans & NortheasternR. R. Co., 17 I. C. C. 22,
24; Board of Trade of Chicago v. Atlantic City R. R.Co., 20 . C. C.
504, 508; In r'Divisions of Joint Rates on Coal, 22 I. C. C. 51, 53;
Morgantown & Kingwood Divisions, 49 I. C. C. 540, 550.

196

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

What the Commission did was to raise the additional
revenues needed by the New England lines, in part,
directly, through increase of all rates 40 per cent. and, in
part, indirectly, through increasing their divisions on joint
rates. In other words, the additional revenues needed
were raised partly by a direct, partly by an indirect tax.
It is not true, as argued, that the order compels the strong
railroads to support the weak. No part of the revenues
needed by the New England lines is paid by the western
carriers. All is paid by the community pursuant to the
single rate increase ordered in Ex parte 74. If, by a
single order, the Commission had raised joint rates
throughout the Eastern Group 40 per cent., and, in the
same order, had declared that 90 per cent. of the whole
increase in the joint rates should go to the New England
lines (in addition to what they would receive under existing divisions), clearly nothing would have been taken
from the Trunk,Line and Central.Freight Association carriers, in so ordering. The order entered in Ex parte 74
was at all times subject to change. The special needs of
the New England lines were at all times before the Commission. That these needs were met by two orders instead of one, is not of legal significance. The order here
in question may properly be deemed a supplement to, or
modification of, that entered in Ex parte 74.
Third. It is asserted that the order is necessarily based
upon the theory that, under § 15(6), the Commission has
authority to fix divisions ms4etween groups of carriers
without considering the carriers individually; that Congress did not confer such authority; and that, hence, the
order is void. Whether Congress did confer that authority we have no occasion to consider; for it is clear
that the Commission did not base its order upon any such
theory. The order directs a 15 per cent. increase in the
divisions to the several New E'ngland lines. It is comprehensive. But it is based upon evidence which the

NEW ENCTLAND DMSIONS CASE.
184

-

197

Opinion of the Court.

Commission assumed was typical in character, and ample
in quantity, to justify the finding made in respect to each
dision of each rate of every carrier. Whether the assumption was well founded will be discussed later. Here
we are to consider merely, whether Congress authorized
the method of proof and of adjudication pursued, and
whether it could authorize it, consistently with the Constitution.
Obviously, Congress intended that a method should be
pursued by which the task, which it imposed upon the
Commission, could be performed. The number of carriers which might be affected by an order of the Commission, if the power "grantedwere to be exercised fully, might
far exceed six hundred; the number of rates involved,
many millions. The weak roads were many. The need
to be met was urgent. To require specific evidence, and
separate adjudication, in respect to each division of each
rate of each carrier, would be tantamount to denying the
possibility of granting relief. . We must assume that Congress knew this; and that it knew also that the Commission had been confronted with similar situations in the
past and how it had dealt with them.
For many years before the enactment of Transportation
Act, 1920, it had been necessary, from time to time, to
adjudicate comprehensively upon substantially all rates in
a large territory. When such rate changes were applied
for, the Commission made them by a single order; and,
in large part, on evidence deemed typical of the whole
rate structure. 7 This remained a common practice after
the burden of proof to show that a proposed increase. of
any rate was reasonable had been declared, by Act of June
18, 1910, c. 309, § 12, 36 Stat. 539, 551, 552, to be upon
Compare Burnham, Hanna,Munger Co. v. Chicago, Rock Island
& Pacific Ry. Co., 14 I. C. C. 299; City of Spokane v. Northern
Pacific Ry. Co. 15 1.C. C.376.

198

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

the carrier."8 Thus, the practice did not have its origin
in the group system of rate-making provided for in 1920
by the new § 15a. It was the actual necessities of procedure and administration which had led to the adoption
of that method, in passing upon the reasonableness of
proposed rate increases. The necessity of adopting a
similar course when multitudes of divisions were to be
passed upon was obvious. The method was equally appropriate in such enquiries; " and we must assume that
'Advances in Rates-Eastern Case, 20 I. C. C. 243, 248; Railroad
Commission of Texas v. Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Ry. Co., 20
I. C. C. 463, 484; Five Per Cent. Case, 31 I. C. C. 351, 402, 403,
448, 449; 1915 Western Rate Advance Case, 35 I. C. C. 497; Western
PassengerFares, 37 I. C. C. 1; Fifteen Per Cent. Case, 45 I. C. C.
303. See also the successive orders issued in the Shreveport controversy, 23 I. C. C. 31; 34 I. C. C. 472; 41 I. C. C. 83; 43 I. C. C.
45; 48 1. C. C. 312. Compare Houston East & West Texas Ry. Co.
v. United States, 234 U. S. 342, 349; Eastern Texas R. R. Co. v. Rail-.
road Commission of Texas, 242 Fed. 300; Looney v. Eastern Texas
R. R. Co., 247 U. S. 214; also Illinois Central R. R. Co. v. State Public
Utilities Commission, 245 U. S. 493, with Business Men's League of
St. Louis v. Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Ry. Co., 41 I. C. C. 13,
503, and 49 I. C. C. 713. The Commission has, since "1920, also
reduced rates in broad group proceedings upon consideration of
typical conditions throughout the entire region involved in the reduction. Reduced Rates, 1922, 68 I. C. C. 676; Rates on Grain, etc.,
64 I. C. C. 85. Referring to the latter case the Commission said in
their second report in this case (66 I. C. C. 203), "In all such general
rate cases we have realized and have held that if we were required
to consider the justness and reasonableness of each individual rate,
the law would in effect be nullified andthe Commission reduced to a
state of administrative paralysis."
Plaintiffs argue that there is a difference, because all interstate
rates are required to be filed with the Commission and published,
and hence appear specifically in the record; whereas divisions are not
required to be filed or published. The difference is without legal
significance. Papers on the Commission files are not a part of the
record in a case,-unless they are introduced as evidence. It is the
nature of the enquiry, not the accident whether papers are on file
or published, which determines whether facts can be proved by evi-

NEW ENGLAND DIVISIONS CASE.
184

Opinion of the Court.

Congress 'intended to confer upon the Commission power
to pursue it. " '
That there is no constitutional obstacle to the adoption
of the method pursued is clear. Congress may, consistently with the due process clause, create rebuttable presumptions, Mobile, Jackson & Kansas City R. R. Co. v.
Turnipseed, 219 U. S. 35; LindsIey v. Natural Carbonic
Gas Co., 220 U. S. 61; and shift the burden of proof, Minneapolis & St. Louis R. R. Co. v. Railroad & Warehouse
Commission- 193 U. S. 53. It might, therefore, have declared in terms, that if the Commission finds that evidence
introduced'is typical of traffic and operating conditions,
and -of the joint rates and divisions, of the carriers of a
group, it may be accepted as prima fade evidence bearing
upon the proper divisions of each joint rate of every carrier in that group. Congress did so provide, in effect,
when it imposed upon the Commission the duty of determining the divisions. For only in that way could the task
be performed. As pointed out in Railroad Commission of
Wisconsin v. Chicago, Burlington & Quincy R. R. Co.,
257 U. S. 563, 579, serious injustice to any carrier could be
avoided, by availing of the saving clause which allows
anyone to except itself from the order, in whole or in part,
on proper showing.
Fourth. It is asserted that the order. directs a transfer
of revenues of the western carriers to the New England
dence which is typical. The Commission could, of course, require
carriers to introduce all their -division sheets. To a proceeding. of
this character the rule acted on in Florida East Coast Ry. Co. v.
United States, 234 U. S. 167, is nbt applicable; compare United
States v. L. & N. R. R. Co., 235 U. S. 314.
" Since Transportation Act, 1920, the Commission has on several
occasions modified the divisions of a carrier without considering each
individual joint rate. Pittsburgh & West Virginia Ry. Co. v. Pittsburgh & Lake Erie R. R. Co., 61 I. C. C. 272; East Jersey R. R. &
Terminal Co. v. Central R. R. Co. of New Jersey, 63 I. C. C. 80;
Division of Joint Rates and Fares of Missouri & North Arkansas
R2. R. Co., 68 I. C. C. 47.

200

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

carriers, pending a decision in the matter of divisions; that
Congress has not granted authority to take such provisional action; and that, hence, the order is void. The
argument is, that under § 15(6), the Commission may
prescribe divisions only when, upon full hearing, it is of
opinion that those existing are, or will be, unjust, unreasonable or inequitable; that in such event it shall prescribe divisions which are just, reasonable and equitable;
and that the provisional character of the order demonstrates that the hearing has not been a full one. Whether
a hearing was full, must be determined by the character
of the hearing, not by that of the order entered thereon.
A full hearing is one in which ample opportunity is afforded to all parties to make, by evidence and argument,
a showing fairly adequate to establish the propriety or
impropriety, from the standpoint of justice and law, of
the step asked to be taken. The Commission recognized,
and observed, these essentials of a full hearing.
The complaint before it was filed in August, 1920.
The hearings did not begin until December 15, 1920. The
parties had, therefore, ample time to prepare to present
their evidence and arguments. The case was not submitted until April 23, 1921. There was thus ample time
for, and every carrier was, in fact, afforded the opportunity of, introducing any and all evidence it desired.
The record made is voluminous. That the evidence left
in the minds of the Commission many doubts, is true.
But it had brought conviction that the New England
lines were entitled to relief, that the divisional arrangements of the carriers required a thorough revision to put
them upon a more logical and systematic basis; that a
horizontal increase of the New England lines' divisions,
made before such revision, would leave some divisions too
high and others too low; that the comprehensive revision
proposed would necessarily take a long time; and that,
meanwhile, the New England lines should be accorded !' a

NEW ENGLAND DIVISION
184

CASE

2201

Opinion of the Court.

portion of the relief to which . . they are entitled and
which the public interest clearly requires ". The Commission further concluded that, on the evidence before it,
no substantial injustice would be done to the carriers west
of the Hudson by an order which injcreased by 15 per cent.
the existing divisions of the New England lines, and reduced, by the amount required for this purpose, the divisions of the several carriers west of the. Hudson, in the
proportions in which they then shared the balance of each
joint rate; or as otherwise might be agreed between them
or determined by the Commission upon application.
A hearing may be a full one, although the evidence
introduced does not enable the tribunal to dispbse of the
issues completely or permanently; and although the tribunal is convinced, when entering'the order thereon, that,
upon further investigation, some changes in it will have
to be made. To grant under such circumstances immediate relief, .subject to later readjustments, was no more a
transfer of revenues pending a decision, than was the like
action, in cases involving general increases in rates, a
trinsfer of revenues from the pockets of the shippers to
the treasury 'of the carriers. That the order is not
obnoxious to the due process clause, because pro~isional,
is clear. If this were not so, most temporary injunctions
would violate the Constitution.
Fifth. It is contended that the order is void, because it
confines itself to dealing with the main, or primary, divisions of the joint rates at the Hudson River and fails to
prescribe the subdivisions of that part of the rate which
goes to the several carriers. The argument is, that if the
Commission acts'at all in apportioning the joint rate, its
action is invalid unless it prescribes the proportion to be
received by each of the connecting iarrierm For this contention there is no warrant either in the language of the
act, in the practice of carriers; o'in reason. The duty
imposed upon the Commission does not extend beyond

202

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

the need for its action. If the real controversy is merely
how much of the joint rate shall go to carriers east of
Hudson River and how much to carriers west, there is
nothing in the law which prevents the Commission from
letting the parties east of the river, and likewise those
west of it, apportion tleir respective shares among themselves. It is obviously of no interest to the western carriers how those of New England decide to apportion their
share; nor is it of interest to the e'astern carriers how those
west of the Hudson divide the share apportioned to that
territory. If on these matters the carriers interested can
reach an agreement and no public interest is prejudiced,
clearly, there is no occasion for the'Commission to act.
But there is a further answer to this contention. The
Commission has fixed the subdivisions east and also those
west of the River. The divisions of the several New England lines are definitely fixed; for the amount receivable
by each carrier from each-joint rate is ordered increased
fifteen per cent. What remains of each joint rate goes to
the western lines. This balance, the order recites, shall be
divided among them "in the same proportions as at present, or otherwise as they may agree, or failing such agreement, as may be determined by the Commission upon
application therefor." That fixes the divisions by reference. The fact that they are fixed provisionally and by
reference, does not invalidate the order. It is urged that
this disposition demonstrates failure by the Commission
to consider the several factors which the statute declares
shall be taken into consideration in determining divisions.
But this is not true. This feature in the order indicates
rather that the Commission has considered the question;
concluded that the apportionment by the western lines of
their share on existing proportions, was not inconsistent
with the public interest; and that, in the absence of complaint, it might be assumed to be satisfactory to all parties. This objection presents in a different form largely

NEW ENGLAND DIVISIONS CASE.
184

Opinion of the Court.

what has been more fully discussed above. There was,
thus, on the part of the Commission. neither usurpation of
power, nor neglect of duty, in limiting its definite decision to the primary divisions at the Hudson River gateways, and leaving the interested parties to. deal, in the
first instance, with the subdivisions among the carriers
in their respective territories.2
Sixth. It is contended that the order is void, because
it is unsupported by evidence. An order of the Commission fixing rates, if unsupported by evidence, is clearly invalid, Interstate Commerce Commission v. Union Pacific
R. R. Co., 222 U. S. 541, 547; FloridaEast Coast Ry. Co.
v. United States, 234 U. S. 167. The rule must, of course,
be the same in respect to an order fixing divisions. The
contention that the order is unsupported by the evidence
rests largely upon arguments which assume a construction
of the statute which we hold to be erroneous, or upon expressions in the first report of the Commission, which, in
view of the second report and order thereon, must be
deemed to have been withdrawn. That the evidence was
21

The junction points on which are based the divisions between

the New England lines and the lines operating west of the Hudson
River were fully set forth in the report of the Commission. To fix
divisions on the percentage basis with a basic dividing line was what
had been commonly done in the agreements of carriers through their
freight associations. In leaving to the respondent carriers, in the first
instance, the apportionment among themselves of that part of the
joint rate receivable by the carriers operating -west of the Hudson
River the Commission followed a long established practice. Brownsvifle, Texas, Class and Commodity Rates, 30 I. C. C. 479, 484; Pacific Fruit Exchange v. Southern Pacific Co., 31 I. C. C. 159, 161, 162,
163; Grain Rates from Milwaukee, 33 I. C. C. 417, 420, 421; SlossS.heffield Steel & Iron Co. v. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co., 35 I.
C. . 460,.465, 466; St. Louis, Missouri-IllnoisPassenger Fares, 41
I. C. C. 584, 598, 599. And the practice had at least the tacit approval of this Court. Compare Intermountain Rate Cases, 234 U. S.
476, 485, 486, 494; O'Keefe v. United Sates, 240 U. S. 294; Manufacturers Ry. Co. v. United States, 246 U. S. 457.

20i

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Statement of the Case.

261 U. S.

ample to support the order made, is shown in the opinion
of the lower court, 282 Fed. 306, 308, 309, and in the reports of the Commission. To consider the weight of the
evidence, or the wisdom of the order entered, is beyond
our province. Manufacturers Ry. Co. v. United States,
246 U. S. 457; Skinner & Eddy Corporation v. United

States, 249 U. S. 557, 562; Seaboard Air Line Ry. Co. v.
United States, 254 U. S. 57, 62. But the way is still open
to any carrier to apply to the Commission for modification of the order, if it is believed to operate unjustly in

'any respect.
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. BHAGAT SINGH THIND.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 202. Argued January 11, 12, 1923.-Decided February 19, 1923.
1. A high caste Hindu, of full Indian blood, born at Amrit Sar,
Punjab, India, is not a "white person ", within the meaning of
Rev. Stats., § 2169, relating to the naturalization of aliens.
- P. 207.
2. "Free white persons," as used in that section, are words of
common speech, to be interpreted in accordance .with the understanding of the common man, synonymous with the word "Caucasian" only as that word is popularly understood. P. 214.
Ozawa v. United States, 260 U. S. 178.
3. The action of Congress in excluding from admission to this
country all natives of Asia within designated limits including all
of India, is evidence of a like attitude toward naturalization of
Asians within those limits. P. 215.

QUrESTIO NS certified by the Circuit Court of Appeals,

arising upon an appeal to that court from a decree of the
District Court dismissing, on motion, a bill brought by the
United States to cancel a certificate of naturalization.

