UNITED STATES- v. OKLAHOMA.
252

253

Syllabus.

sion in the suit could be had, Judicial Code, § 237, is that
of the Appellate Court to which the writ should have been
directed.
The writ of error must, therefore, be dismissed on the
authority of Western Union Telegraph Co. v. Hughes,
203 U. S. 505; Lane v. Wallace, 131 U. S. Appendix
CCXIX; Norfolk & Suburban Turnpike Co. v. Virginia,
225 U. S. 264, 269; Second National Bank v. First
National Bank, 242 U. S. 600; PrudentialInsurance Co.
v. Cheek, 259 U. S. 530.
Dismissed.
UNITED STATES* v. STATE OF OKLAHOMA.
IN EQUITY.

No. 25, Original.

Argued on motion to dismiss January 2, 1923.Decided February 19, 1923.

1. The right to priority of payment provided for by Rev. Stats.,
§ 3466, attaches when the conditions specified by the section come
into existence; and it cannot be impaired or superseded by a
state law. P. 259.
2. The State of Oklahoma acquires no lien on the assets of a state
bank under § 303 of c. 6, Rev. Laws Okla. 1910, before possession of the bank has been taken by the state bank commissioner. P. 260.
3. The word "insolvent," as used in Rev. Stats., -§ 3466, and the
Bankruptcy Law, applies only where a debtor's property is insufficient to pay all his debts. P. 260.
4. But "insolvent," in the sense of the Oklahoma statute, supra,
where it authorizes the bank commissioner, upon becoming satisfied
of a bank's insolvency, -to take possession and wind up its affairs,
is a broader term, applicable where a bank is unable to pay
depositors in the ordinary course of business, though its assets may
exceed its debts. Id.
5. Such a taking over of a bank by the act of the coamissioner
upon a finding by him of its insolvency, does not establish the
right of the United States to priority of payment under Rev.
Stats., § 3466. because it does not imply insolvency within the

254

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for the United States.

261 U.S.

meaning of that section and does not otherwise satisfy its conditions, either as a voluntary assignment, as an attachment of
assets of an absconding, concealed or absent debtor, or as an act
of bankruptcy, as defined by the Bankruptcy Act (§ 3a) or any
law of the State. P. 262.

Bill dismissed.

UPow motion to dismiss the bill in a suit instituted in
this Court by the United States against the State of Okla,homa, in which the plaintiff sought to establish a right of
priority of payment out of the assets of a liquidating
Oklahoma bank, in which it had deposited moneys as
guardian of individual Indians.
Mr. Assistant Attorney General Riter, with whom Mr.
Solicitor General Beck and Mr. S. W. Williams, Special
Assistant to the Attorney General, were on th" brief, for
the United States.
The State of Oklahoma is the proper party defendant
and this Court has original jurisdiction. When a state
bank in Oklahoma becomes insolvent the State, by the
aetion of its bank commissioner, acquires title to the
bank's assets. State v. Cockrell, 27 Okla; 630. Consequently a suit against the bank commissioner is in effect
a suit against the State.
Assets of an insolvent state bank in Oklahoma are subject to the Government's claim as a prior creditor under
Rev. Stats., § 3466.
Whenever a debtor is divested of his property in any of
the ways mentioned in this section, the "person who becomes invested with the title is thereby made a trustee for
the United States and is bound to pay their debt first out
of the proceeds of the debtor's property". Beaston v.
Farmers' Bank, 12 Pet. 102, 132. But, to entitle the
United States to priority, there must be bankruptcy or
insolvency as the latter is defined by the statutes or the
authorities.

UNITED STATES v. OKLAHOMA.
253

255

Argument for the United States.

The bank in this case was adjudged insolvent by the
bank commissioner, who under the law was authorized to
take such action. Revised Laws Oklahoma, 1910, § 302.
The position of the bank coiamissioner in taking charge
of the bank's affairs and collecting and distributing its
assets is, under the state decisions, analogous to that ofa receiver or trustee in bankruptcy or of an assignee for
the benefit of creditors. Briscoe v. Hamer, 50 Okla. 281.
As-stated, therefore, the case is one where the United
States is entitled to be paid first, unless by reason of
§ 303:of..the state law the state itself has a prior lien
on th .baik's assets for the benefit of the depositors'
guarantyf d.
Under'- :303, Rev. Laws Oklahoma, 1910, the lien of
the State does not attach until the bank commissioner
takes possession of the bank and its assets. Before he
may do that, he must find the bank to be insolvent, and
immediately upon his doing that the priority of the
United States attaches. The State, therefore, has no
anterior lien such as would take precedence over the claim
of the United States. Moreover, the laws of the State.
cannot create priority in favor of other creditors and so
defeat the priority of the United States. Field v. United
States, 9 Pet. 182, 200.
That priority does not yield to any claim of creditors,
however high may be the dignity of their debt. Conrad
v. Atlantic Insurance Qo., 1 Pet. 386.
There is no force in the argument that by depositing the
money in the state bank the United States consented to
the State's mdthod of distributing the bank's funds and
thereby waived its claim to priority, because Congress
alone has power to waive rights of the Government, and
there is no pretense that Congress has done so in this case.
Nor was the United States compelled to proceed on the
bond of the surety company before enforcing its direct
remedy against the debtor, for the settled rule of equity is

to the contrary. Lewis v. United States, 92 U. S.618.

256

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

The United States is entitled to priority in regard to
moneys which it has deposited as guardian of the Indians.
Mr. William H. Zwick, with whom Mr. George F. Short,
Attorney General of the State of Oklahoma, was on the
brief, for defendant.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is a suit commenced in this Court by the United
States against the State of Oklahoma to establish priority
in favor of the United States under § 3466 of the Revised
Statutes and to have a debt owing by the state bank of
Guthrie, Oklahoma, paid before any distribution of the
assets of the bank.
The case was heard on the motion of the State to dismiss the complaint on the ground that the allegations
thereof axe not sufficient to constitute a cause of action.
The facts as set forth in the complaint are in substance
the following. The bank was organized" under the laws
of Oklahoma, and was engaged in a general banking business at Guthrie until, October 26, 1921, it was found insolvent under the state law and unable to pay its debts
and unable to continue as a going banking concern. The
United States, under various acts of Congress, is guardian
of certain incompetent and restricted Indians residing
within Oklahoma, and as such guardian caused to be deposited in that bank certain sums of money received by
the United States, through the office of the superintendent
of the Five Civilized Tribes in Oklahoma, on account of
certain individual members and allottees of such tribes
who were incompetent and restricted and wards of the
United States. Before such deposit was made the bank,
pursuant to regulations prescribed by the Secretary of the
interior, delivered to the United States a bond with the
Fidelity and Casualty Co. of New York as surety thereon;
to secure the payment of such funds, and that bond is in

UNITED STATES v. OKLAHOMA.
253

Opinion of the Court.

force; on October 26, 1921, the sum so deposited and due
the United States amounted to not less than $42,000 with
interest. October 7, 1921, a state bank examiner made
an examination of the bank and found that it was insolvent under the Oklahoma law and unable to pay its
debts and to continue as a going banking concern, and so
reported to the bank commissioner who, on October 26,
1921, adjudged the-bank insolvent and took charge and
possession of its assets, books and records for th6 purposes specified in the state depositors' guaranty fund law.
The assets of the bank so taken and now in the possessioh
of the bank commissioner are in excess of the amount
claimed by the United States; and the United States
claims to be entitled to have its debt first satisfied in full
out of such assets, before other creditors are paid anything. Demand for such prior payment was made by the
United States and refused by the State..
The claim of priority asserted by the United States is
based upon § 3466 of the Revised Statutes of the United
States, which provides:
"Whenever any person indebted to the United States
is insolvent, or whenever the estate of any deceased
debtor, in the hands of the executors or administrators, is
insufficient to -pay all the debts due from the deceased,
the debts due to the United States shall be first satisfied;
and the priority hereby established shall extend as well
to cases in which a debtor, not having sufficient property
to pay all his debts, makes a voluntary assignment thereof,
or in which the estate and effects of an absconding, concealed, or absent debtor are attached by process of law, as
to cases in which an act of bankruptcy is committed."
The applicable provisions of the Oklahoma statutes
are found in c. 6 of the Revised Laws of Oklahoma, 1910.
A state banking board is created and given the supervision and management of a depositors' guaranty fund,
created by levying assessments against the capital stock
of each bank and trust company.

258

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

The provision of § 302, under which possession of the
bank and its assets were taken, is as follows:
"Whenever any bank or trust company organized or
existing under the laws of this State shall voluntarily
place itself in the hands of the bank commissioner, or
whenever any judgment shall be rendered by a court of
competent jurisdiction, adjudging and decreeing that
such bank or trust company is insolvent, or whenever its
rights or franchises to conduct a banking business under
the laws of this State shall have been adjudged to be forfbited, or whenever the bank commissioner shall become
satisfied of the insolvency of any such bank or trust company, he may after due examination of its affairs, take
possession of said bank or trust company and its assets,
and proceed to wind up its affairs and enforce the personal liability of the stockholders, officers and directors."
The State asserts a lien superior to the priority rights
of the United States, under § 303, which is as follows:
"In the event that the bank commissioner shall take
possession of any bank or trust company which is subject
to the provisions of this chapter, the depositors of said
bank or trust company shall be paid in full, and when the
cash available or that can be made immediately available
of said bank or trust company is not sufficient to discharge
its obligations to depositors, the said banking board shall
draw from the depositors' guaranty fund and from additional assessments, if required, as provided in Section 300,
the amount necessary to make up the deficiency; and the
State shall have, for the benefit of the depositors' guaranty
fund, a first lien upon the assets of said bank or trust company, and all liabilities against the stockholders, officers
and directors of said bank or trust company and against
all other persons, corporations or firms. Such liabilities
may be enforced by the State for the benefit of the
depositors' guaranty fund."
The United States, asserting that it is not bound first
to proceed' on the bond of thesurety, company (citing

UNITED STATES v. OKLAHOMA.
253

259

Opinion of the Court.

Lewis v. United States, 92 U. S. 618), invokes jurisdiction
of this Court on the ground that, when the bank and its
assets were taken over by the State through its bank commissioner, the State acquired title to the same and is therefore the proper party to be sued. State v. Cockrell, 27
Okla. 630; Lankford v. Platte Iron Work. Co., 235 U. S.
461; American Water Co. v. Lankford, id. 496; Farishv.
State Banking Board, id. 498. No objection to jurisdiction is made by the State; and the State does not deny
that the United States is entitled to priority on account
of money deposited by it as guardian of the Indians to
the same extent as in the case of any other deposit. The
State's contentions are that § 3466 properly construed
does not give the United States priority; that the State
has a lien on the bank's assets, and that the priority rights
(if any) of the United States are subject thereto; and
that priority rights under the act, do not apply where a
sovereign State has a lien against its debtor.
Section 3466 relied on by the Government is a regnactment and extension of § 65, Act of March 2, 1799, 1 Stat.
676; and the same or equivalent language, so far as the
question here involved is concerned, is found in earlier
statutes. Act of March 3, 1797, c. 20, § 5, 1 Stat. 515;
also, Act of May 2, 1792, c. 27, § 18, 1 Stat. 263; Act of
August 4, 1790, c. 35, § 45, 1 Stat. 169; Act of July 31,
1789, c. 5, § 21, 1 Stat. 42. It has been considered in a
number of cases in this Court. The claim of the United
States to the asserted priority rests exclusively upon the
statute. No lien is created by it. It does not overreach
or supersede any bona fide transfer of property in the
ordinary course of business. It establishes priority which
is limited to the particular state of things specified. The
meaning of the word "insolvent" used in the act and of
the insolvency therein referred to is limited, by the Ianguage to cases where "a debtor, not having sufficient

260

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

property to pay all his debts, makes a voluntary assignment", etc. Mere inability of the debtor to pay all
his debts in ordinary course of business is not insolvency
within the meaning of the act, but it must be manifested
in one of the modes pointed out in the latter part of the
statute which defines or explains the meaning of insolvency referred to in the earlier part. United States v.
State Bank of North Carolina,6 Pet. 29, 35; United States
v. Fisher, 2 Cranch, 358, 390; United States v. Hooe, 3
Cranch, 73, 90; Prince v. Bartlett, 8 Cranch, 431, 433;
Conard v. Atlantic Insurance Co., 1 Pet. 386, 439; Brent
v. Bank of Washington, 10 Pet. 596, 611; Field v. United
States, 9 Pet. 182, 201. Wh6re the debtor is divested of
his property in one of the modes specified in the act, the
person who becomes invested with the title is made trustee
for the United States and bound first to pay its debt out
of the debtor's property. Beaston v. Farmers' Bank of
Delaware, 12 Pet. 102, 133-135. The priority given the
United States cannot be impaired or superseded by state
law. If priority in favor of the United States attaches at
all, it takes effect immediately upon the taking over of
the bank. The State has no lien on the assets of the bank
before the taking of such possession by the bank commissioner.
Does § 3466 apply? It requires that there shall be an
insolvent debtor "not having'sufficient property to pay
all his debts." The complaint does not allege that the
bank's assets were not sufficient to pay all its debts. After
stating that the bank examiner found that it was insolvent
and unable to pay all its debts and unable to continue as
a going banking concern, and that the bank commissioner
pursuant to the authority vested in him by the laws of
the State adjudged the bank insolvent and thereupon took
charge and possession of its assets for the purposes of
liquidation, the complaint does allege that the bank wad
and is insolvent. But the word "insolvent" is used in

UNITED STATES v. OKLAHOMA.
253

Opinion of the Court.

different senses. Section 3466 makes it apply only in
cases where the debtor "not having sufficient property to
pay all his debts,

. . "

The Bankruptcy Act of July

1, 1898, c..541, § 1, 30 Stat. 544, provides:
"A person shall be deemed insolvent within the. provisions of this Act whenever the aggregate of.his property,
exclusive of any property which he may have conveyed,
transferred, concealed, or removed, or permitted to be
concealed or removed, with intent to defraud, hinder or
delay his creditors, shall not, at a. fair valuation, be sufficient in amount to pay his debts."
In § 302 of the Oklahoma law, the meaning of "insolvency" of a bank is not so limited, and, when regard
is had to other provisions of the Oklahoma state depositors' guaranty fund law and its object-the full and
prompt payment of depositors in banks unable to carry
on as going banking concerns--it is clear that the meaning there intended is not the same as in § 3466 or in the
Bankruptcy Act. The. bank commissioner under the
Oklahoma law properly may "become satisfied" of the
insolvency of a state bank whenever it is unable to pay
its depositors in ordinary course of business and is unable
to continue as a going banking concern, even though it
has sufficient property to pay all its debts and is not insolvent within the meaning of § 3466 or the Federal
Bankruptcy Act.' This view is in harmony with the
meaning of insolvency as defined by the Supreme Court
of Oklahoma: "Independent of statute, it may generally
be said that insolvency, when applied to a person, firm,
or corporation engaged in trade, means inability to pay
debts as they become due in the usual course of business.
The definition is one generally accepted by both the state
and federal courts." Oklahoma Moline Plow Co. v.
41 Okla. 498, 503.
Smith,
.The allegations of the complaint do not show
the
debtor to be insolvent within the meaning of § 3466 or of
the Bankruptcy Act.

262

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

It remains to be considered whether an act of bankruptcy was committed. In order to give the priority
specified in § 3466, there must be a case of an insolvent
debtor who makes a voluntary assignment of his property,
or a-case in which the estate and effects of an absconding,
concealed or absent debtor are attached by process of law,
or a case in which an act of bankruptcy is committed. In
this case it is not alleged that the Oklahoma state bank
voluntarily placed itself in the hands of the bank commissioner under § 302 or that it made a voluntary assignment
of its property, but it is alleged that the bank commissioner adjudged it insolvent and took charge and possession of. its assets. No action bn the part of the bank was
necessary, and none is alleged. And it is plain that the
case is not within the absconding, concealed or absent
debtor clause.
The complaint does not expressly allege that the bank
committed any act of bankruptcy or state any facts as
constituting an acc of bankruptcy. But it is claimed that
the position of the bank commissioner in taking charge of
the bank's affairs under § 302 is analogous to that of a
receiver or a trustee in bankruptcy, or that of an assignee
for the benefit of creditors. The facts set forth in the
complaint do not constitute an act of bankruptcy as defined by the Federal Bankruptcy Act (§ 3a). There is
not alleged any conveyance to defraud, or preference
through transfer or through legal proceedings, or general
assignment for the benefit of creditors. Nor is the case
withi4 the meaning of the last clause of § 3a (4) "or
because of insolvency a receiver or trustee has been put
"
in charge of his property under the laws of a State .
The allegations do not show insolvency within the meaning of § 3466 or of the Bankruptcy Act. The insolvency
contemplated by § 302 of the state law is not the same or
equivalent condition. The bank commissioner does not
take possession because of the existence of insolvency

UNITED STATES .v. OKLAHOMA.
253

Opinion of the Court.

within the meaning of these federal laws. He is not a
receiver or trustee put in charge because of any such insolvency. He acts as an arm or instrumentality of the
State in the exercise of its police powers to effect the
purpose of the law for the protection of depositors.' It
would defeat the purpose of that law to require that the
bank must be insolvent within the meaning defined in
§ 3466 or in the Bankruptcy Law before the benefit of
the state law can be made available t6 depositois. A
primary purpose of his possession is the prompt payment
of depositors by the use of the state guaranty fund to
the extent necessary, and the case is to be distinguished
from that defined in the Bankruptcy Act, and the commissioner is not a receiver or trustee within its meaning.
The 'legislation of Oklahoma, so far as banks are concerned, does not define acts of bankruptcy or deal with
bankrupt or insolvent banks otherwise than by the state
law herein referred to.
As insolvency within. the meaning of § 3466 was not
necessary for the taking of possession by the bank commissioner and is not shown to exist, and as no act of bankruptcy as defined by applicable federal legislation on the
subject of bankruptcies or as defined by any law of Oklahoma is shown to have been committed, and as the debtor
bank was not divested of its assets in one of the modes
specified in § 3466, the case is not within that section.
The State's motion to dismiss the complaint is granted.
Bill dismissed.

