280

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U.S.

DAVIS, DIRECTOR GENERAL OF RAILROADS, AS
AGENT UNDER .SECTION 206 OF TRANSPORTATION ACT OF 1920, v. L. N. DANTZLER LUMBER
COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME- COURT OF THE

STATE OF

MISSISSIPPI.

No. 228. Argued January 17, 1923.&-Decided February 26, 1923.
Under the Federal Control Act, § 10, a carrier, or the Director General of Railroad&, could not, during federal control, be subjected
to garnishment in a state court. P. 286.
126 Miss. 812, reversed.

to a judgment rendered by the Supreme
Court of Mississippi against the Director General of
Railroads as garnishee.
CERTIORARI

Mr. R. C. Beckett, with whom Mr. Carl Fox was on the
briefs, for petitioner.
Mr. W. A. White, for respohdent, submitted. Mr. W.
H. White -andMr. E. J. Fordwere also on the briefs.
MR. JUSTCE MCKENNA delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case presents an asserted conflict between the laws
of Mississippi, subjecting property to attachment, and
the statutes of the United States which empowered the
President to take control of the railroad transportation
systems of the United States, and exempt their property
from State processes. Act of August 29, 1916, 39 Stat.
619, 645; 40 Stat. 451. See also 41 Stat. 456.
The respondent, the L. X. Dantzler Lumber Company,
herein called the Lumber Company, is a corporation of
Mississippi. It filed a bill for attachment under the
Code of Mississippi of 1906 against the Texas & Pacific

DAVIS v. DANTZLER CO.
280

281

Opinion of the Couirt.

Railway Company, a non-Tesident - of Mississippi, -andcertain other railroads, including the Mobile & Ohio Railroad Company, a Mississippi corporation, having officers
and agents" in the State.
The purpose of the bill was to subject the indebtedness
of the defendant railroads to the Texas & Pacific Railway
Company to the satisfaction of a claim for damages to a
shipment of cattle from Ft. Worth, Texas, to a station in
Harrison County, Mississippi. The shipment was evidenced by a bill of lading dated October 10, 1917.
The-charge is that, by reason of the negligence of the
railroad companies, the Lumber Company was damaged
in the sum of $5,600, and for the payment of this amount
a claim was rendered by the Lumber Company to the
Texas & Pacific Railway Company. Payment was refused.
It is further charged that the several railroad companies are indebted to the Texas & Pacific Railway Company; and that the Lumber Company has the right to
subject such sums to the satisfaction of its claim against
the Texas & Pacific Railway Company, that company
being a non-resident of Mississippi, and having no officer
in the State upon whom service of process can be had.
Personal service is prayed against those companies upon
which, it can be had, and service by publication upon
those companies upon which personal service cannot be
had, and that they make answer stating what funds of
the Texas & Pacific Railway Company they have in their
hands, and in what amounts they will be indebted to that
company in the future, and that the respective funds in
their hands be subjected to the demand of the Lumber
Company.
The Mobile & Ohio Railroad Company alleged that the
suit is one in attachment and that the" company was made
a party simply as garnishee in order that any-indebtedness from it to the Texas & Pacific Railway Company

282-

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

might be condemned to pay the demand of the Lumber
Company and that the service for that process is mesne
process and within the prohibition of the act of Congress,
violates that act and is void.
A statement of. its indebtedness to the Texas & Pacific
Railway Company was attached to the answer showing
an indebtedness of $3,053.94.
The company further answering, alleged that on December 26, 1917, the President of the United States took
possession of and assumed control of the transportation
systems of -the United States, including the Mobile &
Ohio Railroad Company and the Texas & Pacific Railway Company and proclaimed in part, as follows: "Except with the prior written assent of said Director General [a Director General was appointed by the President]
no attachment by mesne process or on execution shall be
levied on or against any of the property used by any of
said transportation systems in the conduct of their business as common carriers."
And further that Congress ratified the action of the
President and provided for the control of the railroads
by an Act approved March 21, 1918, c. 25, 40 Stat. 451,
§ 10 of which provides as follows: " No process,
mesne or final, shall be levied against any property under
such Federal control." And that any money due from
the company to the Texas & Pacific Railway Company is
property under federal control within the meaning of the
President's proclamation and the act of Congress under
the orders of the Director General appointed by the President.
A decree pro confesso was entered against the Texas &
Pacific Railway Company, the decree reciting that the
company had been summoned according to law, and having failed to appear and plead, answer or demur, the allegations of the bill were taken as confessed against the
company.

DAVIS v. DANTZLER CO.
280

Opinion of the Court.

Subsequently the cause was set down for hearing on the
decree, the answer of the other railroads, including that
of the Mobile & Ohio Railroad Company, and upon the
motion of the latter to discharge it as garnishee. The
motion was sustained and the writ of garnishment dismissed as to it. Relief against the other roads, moreover,
was denied, the court being of the opinion that it had no
jurisdiction. The dismissal was reversed on appeal by
the Supreme Court of the State. 119 Miss. 328.
The-Supreme Court stated the question to be whether
the suit could be maintained by reason of the attachment,
no other property of the Texas & Pacific Railway Coinpany being within the State than the indebtedness of theMobile & Ohio Railroad Company t6 the Texas & Pacific
Railway Company.
The court decided the question in the affirmative, expressing a contrary view of the President's proclamation
and the acts of Congress than that asserted by the Mobile
& Ohio Railroad Company, and even intimating that
otherwise the proclamation and 'acts would be an encroachment upon the power of the State. The court,
besides, defined the words "mesne" to mean "intermediate, intervening, the middle between two extremes."
This being the definition of " mesne" process, it was the
conclusion of the court, as we understand-its opinion, that
the present proceeding was commenced under the law of
the State by original process and did not incur the prohibition of § 10.
The conclusion and judgment were that the" Court below erred in discharging the Mobile & Ohio Railroad
Company as girnishee, and in holding that it had no,
jurisdiction to proceed to. determine 'the controversy before it."
Upon return of the case a supplemental bill was filed
and a new garnishment served -on the Mobile & Ohio
Railroad Company.

284

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Coirt.

261 U. S.

The company answered the bill repeating, in'effect, its
former answer and making other defenses not of importance to consider.
The Director General filed what he called an amended
answer to the bill, averring that his former answer wat
filed in the name of the Mobile & Ohio Railroad Company, and was intended to be and was, in fact, the answer
of the Director General, and the indebtedness admitted
therein to be due the Texas & Pacific Railway Company
was the indebtedness of the Director General, and not the
indebtedness of the Mobile & Ohio Railroad Company.
It set forth, as the answer of the Mobile & Ohio Railroad
Company had done, that on December 26, 1917, the President by proclamation issued in pursuance of law, took
possession of the railroad transportation .systems of the
United States, including the property of the Mobile &
Ohio Railroad Company. The Director General of Railroads was created by the President, to whom the present
Director General is the successor, afid as such, was at the
time of the summons against the Mobile & Ohio Railroad
Company operating the same, and that the latter company has not been in possession or control of, nor has it
operated or had anything to do with the operation of that.
railroad since December 28, 1917.
And the Director General further answered that after
the answer of the Mobile & Ohio Railroad Company was
filed, in order to avoid confusion, he issued General Order
No. 50, afterward amended by Order No. 50-A, providing
that suits or causes of action arising out of the operation
of railroads by him should be brought against him and not
against the railroad companies. And further that after.
the Mobile & Ohio Railroad Company (and other railroad
companies) Was taken over by him the account between it
(and other railroad companies) was continued as before
Government control, and that in "the sense that there
was money due from' the Director General on account of

DAVIS v. DANTZLER CO.
280

Opinion of the Couit.

his operation of the Mobile and Ohio Railroad to the Director General on account of his operation of the Texas
and Pacific Railroad, there was an indebtedness as set-out
in the original answer filed herin; but that it was not a
debt in the true sense of the word or within the meaning
of the laws of Mississippi, subjecting debts to garnishments in cases of this kind." And he prayed to be dismissed with costs.
Of the second trial of the case it is only necessary to say
that the court refused to let the Mobile & Ohio Railroad
Company out of the case, or the Director General into it
(the answer of the Director General was. struck out on
motion of the Lumber Company), and the Texas &
Pacific Railway Company having failed to appear, a decree was rendered against it in favor of the Lumber Company in the sum of $6,552.00.
It was further decreed that there was an admitted indebtedness from-the Mobile & Ohio Railroad Company
to the Lumber Company in the sum of $3,053.94 which
was ordered to be paid into the Chancery Court of Harrison County, Mississippi, within thirty days . . . to
be disbursed in accordance with the decree.
An appeal was taken by the Mobile & Ohio Railroad
Company to the Supreme Court and in that court, James
C. Davis, Director General of Railroads, as Agent of the
United States, operating the Mobile & Ohio Railroad
Company, was substituted as defendant, the court saying: "The record now makes the Director General, an
agent of the United States Government, the defendant in
the garnishment."
The court reversed the decree of the Chancery Court
against the Mobile & Ohio Railroad Company, deciding
that it should have been discharged as garnishee, and
ordered a decree against Davis as Director General for
the sum of $3,053.94 with interest at 6% from June 29,
1920, until paid. To review that judgment is the purpose of this certiorari.

286

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

In its opinion upon the second appeal the court reaffirmed the view expressed upon the first appeal and sustained the validity and operation of the state statute
against the acts of Congress and the proclamation of the
President, rejecting the defense set up that the carrier
was an instrumentality or agency of the Federal Government, citing Missouri Pacific R. R. Co. v. Ault, 256
U. S. 554.
It was deduced from that decision that the Director
General was to be treated as a Director General;'of each
separate system of transportation and, that the separate
systems being operated by the Director General, are separate parties within the meaning of the purposes of the
Federal Control Act, and that, therefore, the judgment
against the Mobile & Ohio Railroad Company was, in
effect, in view of the substitution made, a judgment
against the Director General of the Mobile & Ohio Railroad Company and that the Lumber Company was
entitled to recover.
It was, however, decided? that the Director General
could not be required to pay the amount of the judgment
into court but that the Lumber Compan:y would have to
secure it in a manner provided for by the Federal Control Act.
We think the decision of the Supreme Court is based on
a misunderstanding of the Ault Case. The liability of
the Texas & Pacific Railway Company occurred before
the Mobile & Ohio Railroad Company passed under government control, and while the liability cointinued and
the Texas & Pacific Railway Company was subject to suit
after the assumption of such control, necessarily, the procedure had to be in accordance with the acts of Congress.
As to what this procedure should be, the contentions of
the parties are in conflict. '.We have seen that the Supreme Court upon the first appeal, 119 Miss. 328, decided that a carrier., though operated under government

DAVIS v. DANTZLER CO.
280

Opinion of the Court.

control, might be subject to garnishment and that judgment could be rendered against it for a debt it owed to the
principal defendant, and further, that the indebted company-in this case the Mobile & Ohio Railroad Cornpany--could not plead any defense which was personal
to the principal defendant-in this case the Texas &
Pacific Railway Company. From these conclusions the
court considered it was not precluded by § 10 of the Federal Control Act, which provided that "no process, mesne
or final, shall be levied against any property under such
Federal control."
This makes the question in the case.
The Lumber Company contests the pertinency of theprovisions and their control. It asserts that no decree
in rem had been rendered in the case, and that "the final
decree of the Supreme Court of Mississippi discharged the
fund, and this court is dealing solely with a judgment
in personam against the Director General, which there
has been no effort to enforce." In other words, it is
said, "The Siqpreme Court expressly released the fund
and rendered a decree in personam, and not a word in the
decree or the opinion relates to a refusal to pay the money
into court, but the opinion expressly provides this is not
to be done or any other sort of execution to issue."
And again, the contention is, that the Lumber Company" was proceeding as it unquestionably had a right
to, but for Federal control, and the Director General came
into the suit saying in effect, 'because of Federal Control
I am the one to sue '," and procured dismissal of the other
defendants.
And further: "He cannot assume the liability for the
purpose of raising or attempting to raise a federal question, and then deny the liability on the merits." It would
be unjust therefore, is the contention, "now for the Director.General to be even heard to say that he is not responsible for the debt", and "the natfiral, consequences to

288

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

follow his substitution, upon the grounds stated by him,
was to render the decree against him as such substitute
and he is complaining of the very ruling he himself
invoked." And this, it is contended, contravenes the
Ault Case.
The view is partial and overlooks antagonistic thingsoverlooks that the Mobile & Ohio Railroad Company
was made a defendant through garnishment, attempting
thereby to defeat the provision of the Federal Control
Act which provides "no process, mesne or final, shall be
levied against any property under such- Federal control.'"
And the prohibition was necessary to the unity and effectiveness of control in the President and, under him, in the
Director General. Such is the ruling in the Ault Case
where it is decided that the railroad systems could be
"dealt with as active responsible parties answerable for
their own wrongs," but it was also decided that "levy or
execution upon their propefty was precluded as inconsistent with the Government's needs ". "Thus; under
§ 10", is the declaration, "if the cause of action arose
prior to government control, suit might be instituted or,
continued to judgment against the company as though
there had been no taking over by the Government,
save from the immunity of physical property from
levy .
To repeat, the right of suit against the -carriers was
decided, but there was also decided the exemption of their
property from levy or execution. The garnishment proceedings against the Mobile & Ohio Railroad Company
were an infraction of the exemption-an infringement of
the prohibition of the proclamation of the President and
congressional enactments. It is not excluded from the
condemnation because it is a procedure under the statutes
of the State.
The delense was seasonably made.' It is to be remembered that the Mobile & Ohio Railroad Company, im-

DAVIS v. DANTZLER CO.
280

.1289

Opinion of the Court.

mediately in the proceeding against it, attacked the jurisdiction of the court and adduced the. proclamation of the
President exempting the property of any of the railroad
systems of the United States from process, and also adduced § 10. The attack was successful in the trial court.
It was declared impotent by the Supreme Court of the
State and the case was remanded for further proceedings
in accordance with the law of the State, that is, in execution of the garnishment proceedings against the indebtedness of the Mobile & Ohio Railroad Company to the
Texas & Pacific Railway Company. The Director General then entered the case and took up the contest commenced by the Mobile & Ohio Railroad Company against
the law-of the State and the jurisdiction of the state court
to enforce it.
This the Director General did, and nothing more. In
other words, the Director General contested the jurisdiction and power of the court to proceed against property
under the coiltrol of the United States, and which the
proclamation of the President and the statutes of the
United States had exempted from state control.
Reversed and remanded for further proceedings not
inconsistent with this opinion.

