TOLEDO CO. v. COMPUTING CO.
398

Syllabus.

whether the Supreme Court of Appeals of West Virginia
has complied with the mandate of this Court issued on a
judgment entered in the case of United Fuel Gas Co. v.
Hallanan,decided December 12, 1921, 257 U. S. 277. It '
is in all respects similar to that in Eureka Pipe Line Co.
Case and requires the same judgment.
The petition for the writ of certiorari is denied and
the writ of error is dismissed.
TOLEDO SCALE COMPANY v. COMPUTING SCALE
COMPANY.
FIDELITY & DEPOSIT COMPANY OF MARYLAND
ET AL. v. COMPUTING SCALE COMPANY
ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

Nos. 339 and 388. Argued March 16, 1923.-Decided April 9, 1923.

1. Under the Act of September 6, 1916, this Court has no jurisdiction
to review on certiorari the merits of a final decree entered by the
Circuit Court of Appeals more than three rmonths before the
certiorari was applied for. P. 417.
2. Applications made to the Circuit Court of Appeals. after it had
affirmed a decree upholding a patent and ordering an accounting,
and renewed -upon the appeal from the accounting, wherelty the
defendant sought to reopen the case upon the ground of newly
discovered evidence. of prior discovery, manufacture, sale and use
of the invention, were addressed to the sound discretion of the
court and properly overruled where the failure to*discover the evidence in time for the original hearing in the District Court was
due to the applicant's lack of diligence. P. 419.
3. To justify setting aside a decree for fraud, extrinsic or intrinsic,
it must appear that the fraud charged prevented the party complaining from making a full and fair defense. P. 421.
4. A party suing on a patent is under no duty to furnish his opponent
evidence of an anticipation of the invention nor does his silence
v]rclrning such evidence, unaccompanied by acts preventing the

400

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Statement of the Case.

2h U.S.

opponent from finding and availing himself of it, constitute such
a fraud as will sustain a suit to enjoin execution of a decree enforcing the patent. P. 423.
5. A decree of District Court enjoining obedience to a decree of
a Circuit Court of Appeals of another circuit, upon an issue and
evidence of fraud, which, except for immaterial adjuncts of malice
and conspiracy, had been presented to and rejected by the latter
court as a basis for reopening the decree, held an unwarranted review of that court's discretion, and not a decree founded on
extrinsic fraud. P. 423.
6. The principle requiring due diligence in discovering and presenting
evidence, to avoid protraction of litigation, can not be set aside to
avoid hardship in a particular case. P. 424.
7. The -fact that the sureties, on a supersedeas bond in a Circuit
Court of Appeals, and the banks with which their principal made
deposits for their indemnification, have been erroneously enjoined
from complying with tjat court's decree by i District Court of
another circuit, does not relieve them from obedience to a proper
and final order of the former court directing summary judgment
against them. Their remedy is by appeal from the decree of the
District Court. P. 425.
8. Under Jud. Code, § 262, the Circuit Court of Appeals has power
to issue all writs not specifically provided for by statute which
may be necessary to the exercise of its appellate jurisdiction.
P. 426.
9. To protect the execution of its decree, the Circuit Court of Appeals may direct the District Court to enjoin a party from prosecuting a suit in another jurisdiction. Id.
10. A defeated party who seeks by a suit in another jurisdiction to
enjoin the sureties -on his supersedeas bond and his opponent from
executing a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals, is guilty of
contempt of that court which it may punish by directing the District Court to enter a summary decree for expenses occasioned
by such injunction suit and a reasonable attorney's fee. P. 426.
281 Fed. 488, affirmed.

This case comes here by writs of certiorari to the Circuit Court of Appeals of the Seventh Circuit granted to
review the proceedings of that court in enforcement of
a final decree in a suit to enjoin infringement of a patent
and for an accounting of profits. The patent had expired pending the litigation, but the accounting resulted

TOLEDO -CO. v. COMPUTING CO.
399

Statement of the Case.

in a decree of the District Court. for Northern Illinois for
profits of more than $400,000 in favbr of the Computing
Scale Company against the Toledo Scale Company. The
Circuit Court of Appeals, which had sustained the patent
(208 Fed. 410) affirmed the decree for profits (279 Fed.
648), but stayed the mandate to permit an application to
this Court for a writ of certiorari, which was denied January, 9, 1922 (257 U. S. 657). On, the same day, the
Toledo Company, a corporation of New Jersey, filed a bill
in the District Court for the Northerr. District of Ohio
against the Computing Company, a corporation of Ohio,
to enjoin- it from enforcing the decree of the. Circuit
Court of Appeals of the Seventh Circuit on the ground
that it was obtained by fraud. The Computing Scale
Company filed an answer raising first a special plea to,
the jurisdiction and then responding on the merits denying.
fraud and pleading res judicata. The bill also inade parties defendant the sureties on the supersedeas bond in the
Circuit Court of Appeals, the Fidelity Deposit Company
and the United States Fidelity and Guaranty Company,
both corporations of Maryland, as well as three Toledo
banks, citizens of Ohio, which held 'money deposited to
the credit of the surety .companies by the Toledo Company, as indemnity, and asked that they all be enjoined
from in any way satisfying or aiding to satisfy the decree.
The Computing Company then filed in the Circuit Court
of Appeals a petition for a rule against the Toledo Company to show cause why it should not be enjoined from
maintaining the bill in Ohio and why a summary decree
should not issue against the sureties. Pending a hearing
as to this rule, the Ohio court granted a temporary injunction restraining the Computing Scale Company, and
the sureties and the banjos .as prayed by the Toledo
Company. The Circuit CourtC of Appeals thereafter
heard the petition for the rule to which the Toledo. Coin-

.

402

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Statement of the Case.

261 U. S.

pany had made answer, in which by way of. exhibit to
its averments it set up as a defense the complete record
in the injunction suit in Ohio. The Circuit Court of
Appeals then made the order which is here for review.
It reads as follows:
"We now receive from the Computing Company the
certified copy of the. Supreme Court's order denying Toledo Company's petition for writ of certiorari, and we
direct the Clerk to file it in this cause.
"Unless the mandate which we now formulate be
stayed on Toledo Company's motion filed within five
days .the Clerk is directed to issue and transmit to the
Court below the following mandate:
"(1) Enter of record our affirmance of the final decree
on accounting. .

"(2) Enjoin Toledo Company from further maintaining its Ohio bill and from filing elsewhere any similar bill.
"(3) Enter summary decree against the.sureties on the
supersedeas bonds for the amount due upon the accounting decree, including all costs in both courts, but not
exceeding the penalties of the bonds.
"(4) Ascertain Computing Company's expenses in this
matter, including reasonable attorney's fees, paid or incurred since the Supreme Court's denial of the petition
for writ of certiorari on January 9th, 1922,. and enter
summary decree therefor against Toledo Company, but
not against the sureties on the-supersedeas bonds ". 281
Fed. 488.
The patent, the subject of controversy in this case, was
for an automatic computing scale -issued to one Smith in
September, 1895, and reissued April 28, 1896. It related
to improvements in weighing scales wherein the weight
and selling price could be seen by the weigher at a glance
without mental calculation.' It consisted of a pan weighing device attached to an indicator drum inside of a casing
with a slot through which the figures on the drum as it

TOLEDO CO. v. COMPUTING, CO.
'399

Statement of the Case.

revolved in response to the effect of the weight would so
co6rdinate with figures on the casing as to show the
weight and correct price on the same line.' The patentee
in his specifications admitted that the general combination was an old one but said that the object of his improvement was to provide scales, extraordinarily sensitive
to weights of small amount, and accurately registering
them. He explained that an essential feature of the indicator drum in his improvement was that it should be
made of very light material because scales of this kind
theretofore would not weigh alike successively, due to the
inertia of the revolving drum, the force required to operate it, and the difficulty of. stopping, and-so he had constructed his drum of a skeleton frame of aluminum with
a periphery, of a thin sheet of paper.
The claims in controversy were:
"5. An indicator-drum for weighing mechanism, consisting of a spindle provided with a plurality of skeleton
frames- of light material and secured to said spindle, and
having secured to their peripheries a sheet of paper forming a cylindet.
"6. An indicator-drum for weighing mechanism consisting of a spindle provided with a plurality of skeleton
disks or frames of thin aluminum having a sheet of paper
extending around and secured to their peripheries to form
a -cylinder."
The Computing Scale Company and the Toledo Scale
Company were competitors in business. The former had
acquired the Smith patent by the purchase of the assets
of the Boston Computing Scale Company, and before
1906 was manufacturing scales using the Smith cylindrical drum in competition with scales of the Toledo Company having a fan-shaped registering dial. There had
been patent suits between them concerning other parts of
the weighing mechanism than the ildicator. Each had
other patents in this field. In 1906, the Toledo Company

404

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Statement of the Case.

261 U.S.

did not give up its fan-shaped scales, but began the manufacture of scales with an indicator drum of skeleton
aluminum frame and paper periphery and so increased
its sales of them that they ultimately constituted the
larger part of its business. This led to two suits by the
Computing Scale Company in 1907 against the Toledo
Company in the District Court for the Northern District
of Ohio. Nothing was done with them until the suit at
bar was brought in the District Court for Northern Illinois
in 1910. Then, as a condition of getting extension of
time to take evidence herein, the Computing Scale Company was required by the court to dismiss the Ohio suits.
In its answer to the bill in this case, filed in August, 1910,
the Toledo Company alleged that the Smith patent and
the claims 5 and 6 had been anticipated by a patent
granted to one Phinney in 1870 and further averred anticipation by reason of prior public use and sale "by
various persons at various places within the United
States, and among others at Pawtucket, Rhode Island,
by William H. Phinney, then and now, as defendant is
informed and believ'es residing at said Pawtucket."
On the trial, the Toledo Company's expert testified that
he had built a Phinney scale following the patent to
Phinney, but that he could not get it to stop twice within
an ounce of the same weight, and that a scale which would
within a very small fraction of an ounce was
weigh
not
not an
instrument
of precision and not a commercial article at all. It should be said that the specifications of
the Phinney patent made no reference to the material of
which the cylinder of the scales was to be made or its
weight or the importance of those features. The District
Court held that the fifth and sixth claims of the Smith
patent were'valid and this was affirmed by the Circuit
Court of Appeals, April 15, 1913 (208 Fed. 410, 413),
holding that Smith had put in the hands of the world's
vendors of commodities the first usable computing scale,

TOLEDO CO. v. COMPUTING CO.
.399

Statement of the Case.

that long before the "paper" art, including a patent to
-Phinney in 1870, had proposed to teach practical scale
makers how to build automatic computing scales, but all
attempts to make them were failures, that in the 25 years
between Phinney and Smith the brightest and most skilful men had sought the necessarily tremendous commercial success of a reliable computing scale but had not
found it until Smith had the happy conception that the
lightest possible drum would secure the required accuracy
of revolution and stopping.
On May 14, 1913, the Toledo Company made a motion.
in the Circuit Court of Appeals that the court include in
its mandate affirming the decree of the District Court for
an accounting, leave to rehear the cause and to permit the
Toledo Company to introduce proof that computing
scales had been made and sold and introduced into use by
the patentee Phinney of Pawtucket, Rhode Island, which
had a cylinder drum of light wood skeleton covered with
thin paper and anticipated the drum of Smith. Three
Phinney scales and thirteen supporting affidavits were
introduced. These included one of the son of Phinney,
the patentee, who had been with his father during his
manufactnre and sale of -the scales until his death and
who still lived at Pawtucket, of Phinney's widow, and
also those of residents of Pawtucket who said they had
bought and used the scales. The affidavits also disclosed
that in a suit against the Federal Scale Company for infringepient of the Smith patent brought by the Computing Scale Company in Philadelphia, which never came to
trial, all this evidence had been taken and was on file..
The three Phinney scales which were exhibits there had
been in the custody of Church and Church who had been
counsel for the Computing Scale Company in Philade'phia. It was also shown that the Computing Scale Company had three or four of these scales and drums in their
possession at Dayton. It also appeared from young Phin-

406

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Statement of the Case.

261 U. S.

ney's affidavit that the Boston Computing Company,
which owned the Smith patent and which subsequently
was bought out by the complainant Computing Scale
Company was trying to buy the scales which Phinney had.
The evidence tended to show that only twenty scales had
been made by Phinney, and that no scales were made
after 1895. The president of the Toledo Company in his
affidavit excused failure earlier to discover this evidence.
by saying that the company made every effort to learn of
prior use. His counsel explained that he had been led
away from investigation into manufacture of Phinney
scales at Pawtucket which was not visited by agents of
the Toledo Company till after June, 1912, by the fact
that the model of the Phinney patent at the Patent Office
Was of only a small one of solid wood and not of light
material, and that he only acquired knowledge" of Phinney's manufacture and use of scales with indicator drums
by accident after June, 1912, from counsel for defendant
in a suit brought by the Computing Company against the
Standard Company in 1911. There was no direct charge
in these 1913 affidavits that the Computing Scale Company -was purchasing and gathering in these Phinney
scales to conceal them, but there were averments in the
affidavits which were only relevant to. sustain such a
charge and were evidently inserted for that purpose. The
1913 motion for a reheaing was overruled by the Circuit
Court of Appeals.
The case went back for an accounting, and in 1917 the
Toledo Company took depositions of the witnesses whose
affidavits had been filed in 1913 and sought to use the
evidence to reduce the'damages by showing what kind of
a scale might have been constructed by the Toledo Company without infringing the Smith patent, but the evidence was not given weight for that purpose. The expert
of the Toledo Company in these depositions said he.did
not test the Phinney scales of wood and paper cylinders

TOLEDO CO. v. COMPUTING CO.
"399

"Statement of the Case.

when' they were in the custody of the "Toledo Company
because he did not think they would weigh properly. The
District Court confirmed the master's report of the accounting and made a decree accordingly for $420,000.
This was carried on appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals, which affirmed it in October, 1921. 279 Fed. 648.
The Toledo Company at the same time again made a
motion for leave to open up the case that it might introduce the evidence contained in the affidavits presented in
May, 1913, and the depositions taken in 1917, and retry.
the issue of validity of the patent and show its invalidity,
by reason of the Phinney prior manufacture, sale and use.
In brief of couisel urging the granting of this motion for
the Toledo Company, it was said "To refuse to consider
the evidence in the present record respecting the Phinney
scale, as affecting the validity of the patent in suit, would
be to permit the plaintiff to take advantage of essential
facts known to it and unknown to the defendant or the
court and its consequent imposition on both." In the subsequently filed petition for certiorari to this Court, counsel for the Toledo Company, in discussing this same issue,

said,
"The affidavits further showed that plaintiff had full
knowledge of the Phinney scales for more than ten years,
that tvidenc'e and numerous samples of them had been
introduced in a suit which plaintiff had brought at Philadelphia ten years earlier upon the reissued patent here in
suit, that the prosecution of said suit had been abandoned
because of such evidence and that plaintiff had suppressed
and concealed such. fact from the Court 'and defendant
throughout the litigation in the present cause."
The motion to reopen the case was denied .by the Circuit Court of Appeals. 279 Fed. 674. An application to
review this October, .1921, decree by certiorari was made
and was denied by this Court January 9, 1922. 257 U. S.
657.

408

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Statement of the Case.

261 U. S.

At once, the Toledo Company filed its bill in the United
States Court for the Northern District of Ohio, which is
summarized by the Circuit Court of Appeals in its opinion. 281 Fed. 488, 491. It charged that since 1901, the
Computing Company had formed a conspiracy with certain of its officers and agents to monopolize the computing scale business of the country and to put the Toledo
Company out of business, that in 1902 it built and sold
a dishonest scale that the Toledo Company exposed in
circulars which the Computing Company sought, but
failed, to enjoin, that this increased its malicious hatred
toward the Toledo Company, that then the Toledo Company was making a fan scale which on the strength of
patents held by it the Computing Company sought unsuccessfully to enjoin, but dismissed the suits without a
trial, that in 1901 the Computing Company brought suit.
in the Eastern Pennsylvania District to enjoin the Federal Scale Company from infringing the Smith patent and
introduced three Phinney scales as exhibits in evidence
and depositions already referred to, that the-suit was dismissed because the- Computing Company was advised by
counsel that the Phinney defense was dangerous, and that
the exhibits were-by stipulation retained by counsel for
the Federal Company who lent them to counsel for Computing Company in whose custody they were until after
the issue of validity had been'decided in Chicago in favor
of the Computing Company, that a suit-brought against
one Randall in Pennsylvania in 1901, and against the "
Standard Company. in Wisconsin in 1911, on the Smith
patent, by the Computing Company, had been dismissed
after production of similar evidence of the Phinney prior
use, that after 1906 the Computing Company secretly
purchased and took into its possession all the Phinney
scales it could get, being all of the twenty which Phinhey
ever made, except one or two then in the hands of users
and except those in the Federal, Randall and Standard-

TOLEDO CO. v. COMPUTING CO.
399

409

1 Argument for Toledo Co.

suits, that these purchases were made in pursuance of the
conspiracy, secretly and fraudulently for the purpose ofpreventing the Toledo Company and the District Court
of Northern Illinois and the Circuit Court of Appeals of
the Seventh Circuit from learning of the Phinney commercial practice, that the Toledo Company made diligent
effort and investigation to find the Phinney commercial
practice and also evidence of the Computing Company's
fraudulent suppression of evidence thereof, that while
Toledo Company had had knowledge of the Phinney commercial practice since 1913, it had no knowledge of Computing Company's fraudulent suppression- thereof until
December 20, 1921, which was after the affirmance of the
accounting decree. The bill further averred that counsel
for the Computing Company in 1913, in their brief on
appeal from the District Court in this case, said that
Phinney had never made a successful scale or put it on
the market which the Computing Company knew to be
false and that.this deceived the. Toledo Company and its
counsel into damaging admissions in the Circuit Court of
Appeals as to ihe material of which Phinney's scales were
actually made.
This bill was supported by'the same evidence used in
the Seventh Circuit applications of 1913 and 1921 and
also by the affidavit of one Koehne, who said that as an
inventor of spring scales and to develop the same he had
been in the employ of the Computing.'Company for a
number of years, that he .was privy to 'the conspiracy
charged in the bill, but that the counsel enAployed.to defend the various patent suits referred to in the bill were
not, and that the manager of the Computing Company
with whom he worked and talked was dead.
Mr. George D. Welles and Mr. Frederick P. Fish, with
whom Mr. Edward Rector, Mr. Harry W. Morgan, Mr.
Thos. H. Tracy, Mr. Rathbun Fuller and Mr. Horace

410

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Toledo Co.

261 U. S.

Kent Tenney were on the briefs, for Toledo Scale Company.
If the relief sought is against the enforcement of a
judgment or decree which plaintiff alleges was obtained
by reason of the fraud of the defendant, a United States
District Court in which the bill is filed has full power to
examine the bill, and the evidence offered in"support of
it, and to grant such relief as in its judgment the plaintiff
is entitled to. The fact that the relief sought is to enjoin
the defendant from taking any advantage from the judgment or decree of another court, in no wise affects the
power of the District Court in which the bill is filed. The
District Court has plenary jurisdiction to entertain such a
bill, and to grant relief by way of injunction. Insurance
Co. v. Hodgeson, 7 Cr. 332; United States v. Thrbckmorton, 98 U. S. 61; Barrow v. Hunton, 99 U. S. 80; Johnson
v. Waters, 111 U. S. 640; Chicago, R. I. & P. Ry. Co. v.
Callicotte, 267 Fed. 799; Graver v. Faurot, 76 Fed. 257;
Marshallv. Holmes, 141 U. S. 589; Simmons v. Southern
Ry. Co., 236 U. S. 115; Wells Fargo & Co. v. Taylor, 254
U. S. 175; Ocean Ins. Co. v. Fields, 2 Story, 59; Sayers V.
Burkhardt, 85 Fed. 246; Dowagiac Co. v. McSherry Co.,
155 Fed. 524; Hendryx v. Perkins, 114 Fed. 801; Young
v. Sigler, 48 Fed. 182; Guild v. Phillips,44 Fed. 461.
Upon such a bill, .the court in which it is pending may
grant an injunction at any time; the fact that an appeal
or writ of error from the fraudulent judgment is pending
in a higher court, and that the appellate jurisdiction of
the latter has therefore attached, does not affect the right
of the party to file a bill, or of the court to grant an injunction. Parker v. The Judges, 12 Wheat. 561; Dowagiac
Co. v. McSherry Co., 155 Fed. 524.
A suit to enjoin enforcement of a judgment for extrinsic fraud of the successful party in obtaining it may be
brought and maintained without leave of any court;
Hendryx v. Perkins, supra; Dowagiac: Co. v. McSherry

TOLEDO CO. v. COMPUTING CO.
399

411

Argument for Toledo Co.

Co., supra;Ritchie v. Burke, 109 Fed. 16; Griggs v. Gear,
8 Gillman, 3;. Farwell v. Great Western Tel. Co., 161 Ill.
522.
The defendant cann6t, by proceedings in mandamus or
prohibition, either in the Circuit Court of Appeals or in
the Supreme Court, or otherwise, control the discretion
of the District Court in its decision of the question presented in such a bill of complaint; Neithef mandamus nor
prohibition will lie where there is a plaih and adequate
remedy by way of appeal. Ex parte Chicago, R. I. & P.
.By. Co., 255 U. "S.
273; Huntington v. Laidley, 176 U. S.
668.
A complete answer to the claim that the Court of Appeals could properly enjoin the Ohio proceedings is found
in Kline v. Burke Construction Co., 260 U. S. 226; and
Essanay Film Mfg. Co. v. Kane, 258 U. S. 358.
The Circuit Court of Appeals would have had no jurisdiction to entertain a bill of review based upon the fraud
of the successful party-in secreting and suppressing evidence to support the defeated party's defense: Dowagiac
Co. v. McSherryCo., 155 Fed. 524; Hendryx v. Perkins,
114 Fed. 801; Hill v. Phelps, 101 Fed. 650; Simpkins, A
*Federal Equity Suit, p. 607; 2 Beach, Mod: Eq. Pr., § 884;
Daniell's Ch. P1. & Pr., 5th ed., p. 1584; 1 Story, Eq. P., §
404; StandardOil Co. v. Missouri,224 U. S. 270.
The applications which were made to the Circuit Court
of Appeals with respect to leave to apply to the lower
court to receive newly discovered evidence were applications purely to the discretion of the Circuit Court of Appeals. If the Toledo Company at the time of making
such applications had known of the fraud which had been
perpetrated upon it by the Computing Company, and had
set forth this fraud in these applications in an effort to
move the discretion of the Circuit Court of Appeals to
permit the newly discovered evidenc& to be received, and
if the.Circuit Court of Appeals had in fact then attempted

412

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Toledo Co.

261 U. S.

to pass upon the questions of materiality of such fraud
and had held against the Toledo Company thereon, its
decision would still have been purely discretionary and
would not have been binding upon Toledo Company
as res judicataor estoppel in its subsequent suit filed as a
matter of right to restrain the enforcement of the jidgment because of fraud. Metcalfe v. Williams, 104 U. S.
95; Oklahoma City v. McMaster, 196 U. S. 529; Bucki v.
Atlantic Lumber Co,, 116 Fed. 1; 2 Freeman on Judgments, § 511; Farwell v. Great Western Tel. Co., 161 Ill.
522, 617; Credits Commutation Co. v. United States, 177
U. S. 311.
It seems clear that a discretionary application to an appellate court, supported only by such affidavits as the
applicant may be fortunate enough to obtain and which
that court- may grant or deny in its wholly uncontrolled
discretion, cannot, if denied, have the effect of adjudicating finally as between the parties that the fraud alleged
was not committed or was immaterial or that relief against
it is barred by laches. A party who is defrauded has a
right to a hearing in i court where he can subpoena witnesses and force them to testify whether they are willing
to do so or not, and to have the issues determined in accordance with the rules of law and equity with a right of
review if he feels aggrieved by the decision. The Toledo
Company has never had a day of this kind in court.
The orders denying the discretionary applications to
the Circuit Court of Appeals were not final -decrees and
only a final decree amounts to res judicata.
Moreover, it should not be overlooked that the fraud
of which the Toledo Company now complains was not in
fact known to it, and hence was not set up or relied upon
in its appeals to the discretion of the Circuit Court of
Appeals, and that thie fraud was still operative at the time
of these applications and prevented the Toledo Company's
making the full showing with respect to prior use, and any

TOLEDO CO. v. COMPUTING CO.
399

413

4rgument for Toledo Co.

showing as to fraud such as is now made in the District
Court in Ohio.
Obviously a decree which it is claimed was obtained by
fraud cannot operate as a bar to an investigation of the
fraud. Adair v. Cummins, 48. Mich. 375; Walker v. Day,
8 Baxt. (Tenn.) 77.
And, by a parity of reasoning, a party whose only relief
against a judgment obtained by fraud is a sdit to enjoin
its enforcement cannot be guilty of contempt of court in
filing his suit for such an injunction.
It is submitted that the litigation in Ohio in no respect
interferes with the exercise by the Circuit !Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit of its appellate jurisdiction
in the litigation in that circuit.
The Circuit Court of Appeals is a court of purely
appellate jurisdiction. If it has power to issue or to direct
the District Court below to issue an injunction with respect to a matter, it may do so only, if at all, by virtue of
§ 262, Jud. Code. The issuance of injunctions is specifically provided for by § 264. The specific provisions do
not authorize the issuance of injunction by the Circuit
Courts of Appeals. Probably they have no such power.
North Bloomfield v. United States, 83 Fed. 2; The Mamie,
110 U. S. 742; McClung v. Silliman, 6 Wheat. 598.
If it be granted, however, that they may issue them
when. so "necessary" for the exercise of their appellate
jurisdiction, nevertheless, if that court erroneously determines that a necessity exists when it does not exist, such
determination should be reviewed and reversed by the
Supreme Court. In the case at bar we submit it is clear
that there was no necessity for the Circuit Court of Appeals to issue an injunction in aid of its appellate jurisdiction. All that remained for it to do to fully complete
the exercise of its appellate jurisdiction in this case was to
send its mandate to the District. Court affirming the decree upon the accounting. When that had been done, its

414

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
ATgument for Toledo Co.

261 U. S.

exercise of its power and authority would have' been
complete.
The ordinary procedure, where it is claimed that vexatious litigation is being maintained by.a defeated party, is
to file a bill of complaint so alleging either as an ancillary
bill in the District Court in which the original proceedings
were had as in Supreme Tribe of Ben-Hur v. Cauble, 255
U. S. 356, or in some other District Court having jurisdiction of the parties, as in Kessler v. EIdred, 206 U. S.
285, and upon such bill of complaint and after a hearing
and determination that the other suit is vexatious the
District Court may issue an injunction. In the case at
bar the Circuit Court of Appeals has substituted itself
for the District Court as a trial court, and upon a petition
filed before it, .which was never before the District Court,
has held that its action upon prior applications to it,
which in turn were never before the District Court, are
binding upon the parties and has directed the issuance of
a mandate to the District Court. below it to issue an
injunction upon a matter which that District Court has
never had before it.
We respectfully submit that the Circuit Court of Appeals, under the guise of informing itself " on the correctness and justice of the mandate to be entered," cannot
substitute itself for a District Court and usurp the primary jurisdiction of that court in the manner in which it
has been done in this case.
The Circuit Court of Appeals has not stated in terms
that it has found the Toledo Company guilty of contempt, but it has'attempted to punish it as for a civil contempt. It heard no evidence as to the good faith or lack
of it on the part of the Toledo Company in beginning the
suit in Ohio. The District Court in Ohio not only held
that the suit was brought in good faith but that it was
well founded .after full hearing upon the motion for preliminary injunction.

TOLEDO CO. v. COMPUTING CO.
399.

415

Argument for Toledo Co.

The action of the Toledo Company in bringing the
Ohio suit was not in contempt of the Circuit Court of
Appeals. Royal Trust Co. v. Washburn, 139 Fed. 865.
The District Court in Ohio was right in granting the
injunction. A party who obtains a judgment or decree
by extrinsic fraud may be enjoined from enforcing such.
judgment or decree by any court of equity having jurisdiction of the parties. Graver v. Faurot, 76 Fed. 257;
Dowagiac Co. v. Mc$herry Co., 155 Fed. 524; United
States v. Throckmorton, 98 U. S. 61; Marshally. Holmes,
141 U. S. 589; Wells Fargo & Co. v. Taylor, 254 U. S.
175; Chicago, R. L & P. Ry. Co. v. Callicotte, 267 Fed.
799; Ocean Ins. Co. v. Fields, 2 Story, 59; Sayers v. Burkhardt, 85 Fed. 246; Young v. ,Sigler, 48 Fed. 182; Gui7d
v. Phillips,44 Fed. .461.
The fraud upon which the Ohio injunction suit rests is
that before the patent litigation was begun the Computing Company, for -the purpose of preventing an adversary
trial of the issues as to whether there had been an anticipation of its patent, gathered up and secreted the evidence.
bearing upon this point, and that it did this for the ex-.
press purpose of depriving the Toledo Company of the
opportunity of having an -actual adversary -trial of the
issue as to whether Smith or Phinney made the first lightweight computing cylinder and for the express purpose of
deceiving and misleading the courts as well as the Toledo
Company. This conduct certainly was not conduct practiced during the course of an actual. adversary trial of the
issues joined.
In the patent suit in the District Court in: Illinois, the
Toledo Company was prevented by the fraudulent conduct of the Computing Company from fully and fairly
presenting its side of the case.
The general rule applies to enjoining the enforcement
of a decree on the merits in a patent suit obtained by extrinsic fraud by an original bill in another court of equity.

416

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Argument for Toledo Co.

261 U.S.

Arrowsmith v. Gleason, 129 U. S. 86; Johnson v. Waters,
111 U. S. 640.
The general rule applies to enjoining the enforcement
of a judgment or decree of one federal court by another
federal court, Carver v. Jarvis-Conklin Co., 73 Fed. 9;
Chapman & Co. v. Montgomery Water Power Co., 127
Fed. 839; Kirk v. United States, 124 Fed. 324; 130 Fed.
112; Ralston v. Sharon, 51 Fed. 702; and to enjoining the
enforcement of a decree of one court of equity by another. Graver v. Faurot, 76 Fed. 257; Dowagiac Co. v.
McSherry Co., 155 Fed. 524; United States v. Throckmorton, 98 U. S. 61; Toledo Scale Co. v. Computing Scale
Co., 281 Fed. 488; Carver v. Jarvis-Conklin Co., 73 Fed.
9; Ralston v. Sharon, 51 Fed. 702.
The Circuit Court of Appeals erred in holding that the
'fraud complained of in the District Court of Ohio is not
extrinsic fraud. Graver v. Faurot, 76 Fed. 267; Chicago,
R. I. & Pac.Ry. Co. v. Callicotte, 267 Fed. 799; Marshall
v. Holmes, 141 U. S. 589; Arrowsmith v. Gleason, 129
U. S. 86; Johnson v. Waters, 111 U. S. 640.
The Circuit Court of Appeals erred in holding that it
had ever passed upon the question of fraud which is
raised in the Ohio case.
It was .not until December, 1921, that the evidence 6f
the fraud now complained of came to the knowledge of
the Toledo Company. What..the Circuit Court of Appeals holds, therefore, is that "the Toledo Company is
not now ertitled to relief, notwithstanding the fraud of
the Computing Company, because of the fact that Toledo
Company had what the court regards as a clue to the
fraud of the Computing Company and did not follow it
up but instead engaged in a prolonged accounting contest:
This is not, and never has been the laiv. Kilbourn
v. Sunderland, 130 U. S. 505; McIntire v. Pryor, 173
U. S. 38.
The Circuit Court of Appeals erred in hodinig that its
refusal to grant the application's of the Toledo Company_

TOLEDO CO. v. COMPUTING CO.
399

417

Opinion of the Court.

for leave to apply to the District Court of Illinois for.
leave to introduce newly discovered evidence was a final
decree barring relief under the Ohio bill based on extrinsic
fraud.
The Smith reissued patent in suit is invalid for lack
of patentable invention over the prior art. It is completely anticipated by the Phinney commercial scales.
Claims 5 and 6 of the Smith reissued patent are invalid
for the reason that they are claims for a. different invention from that described and claimed as the patentee's .invention in his original patent.
The plaintiff and the court neglected and refused to
make, or to attempt to -make, any apportionment of defendant'.s profits on its cylinder scales, and the award of its
entire profits to plaintiff was erroneous.
Mr. Charles MarkelU, with whom Mr. Edward Osgood
Brown and Mr. Edwin J. Marshall were on the brief, for
Fidelity & Deposit Company of Maryland et al.
Mr. John H. Zane, with whom Mr. Charles F. Morse
and Mr. Drury W. Cooper were on the briefs, for Computing Scale Company.
MR. CHIEF JusTIcE TAFT, after stating the case. as
-above, delivered the opinion of the Court:

It is insisted by counsel for the petitioner that it is
within our power and it is our duty on this writ to go
into the merits of the issue of the validity of the Smith
patent and of the correctness of the money decree for
profits. We were asked to do this by an application for
writ of certiorari which we denied Jahuary 9, 1922. 257
U. S. 657. The decree then sought to be reviewed was
entered in October, 1921. The application for this second
writ of certiorari which we are now considering was not
made until May 22, 1922, more than three months after

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

the final decree in the Circuit Court ,of Appeals for the
payment of profits. Section 6 of Act of September 6,
1916, c. 448, 39 Stat. 726, 727, directs"That no writ of error, appeal, or writ of certiorari intended to bring up any cause for review by the Supreme
Court shall be allowed or entertained unless duly applied
for within three months after entry of the judgment or
decree complained of."
This deprives us of jurisdiction to consider the merits
of the decree of October, 1921.
The case of Hamilton-Brown Shoe Co. v. Wolf Brothers
& Co., 240 U. S..251, is cited to sustain a contrary view,
but it fails to do so. In that case, a writ of certiorari
had been applied for to this Court to review an interlocutory decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals and
denied. The case went back to the District Court for- a
final accounting for infringement of a trademark and after
a final decree for profits came again to the Circuit Court
of Appeals and was affirmed. Then a second application
was made for a certiorari and it was allowed. The re-.
spondent contended that this Court could not review the
whole case including the merits of the interlocutory decree
because of the denial of the first application for certiorari.
We held that the denial constituted no bar because the
deciee sought then to be reviewed was not final. Our
power to grant writs of certiorari extends to interlocutory
as well as final decrees; and a mere denial of the writ to
an interlocutory ruling of the Circuit Court of Appeals
does not limit our power to review the whole case when
it is brought here by our certiorari on final decree. In
the case before us, the decree of October, 1921, which we
declined to review in January, 1922, was a final decree
and we are expressly denied power to review it after three
months.
What we are to consider on this writ is whether the
Circuit Court of Appeals on the petition for a rule against

TOLEDO CO. v, COMPUTING CO.
399

419

Opinion of the Court.

the Toledo Company had anything presented to it in the
record in the Ohio court which required it to stay its hand
in using available process to enforce its final decree. We
are very clear that it had not. It has been necessary to
make an elaborate statement to show the complicated
facts; but when they are arrayed in order so as to be understood, there is no escape-from the conclusion that the
action of the Ohio court could not and should not interfere with or stay the due course of proceedings to enforce
the Seventh Circuit decree.
The application to the Circuit Court of Appeals in 1913
to frame its mandate so as to permit that court to rehear
the issue on the merits of the validity of the patent
already found and affirmed by both courts, was addressed.
to the discretion of that court and that was exercised to
deny the application, presumably because the application
showed on its face a lack of- the due diligence in not producing the allegednewly discovered evidence in time to
have presented it to the trial court at the hearing on the
merits in June, 1912. The Toledo Company had been
advised of the claim of its infringement of the Smith patent within a year after it began to make and sell the aluminum cylinder scale in 1906 by two suits of the Computing Scale Company and its attention had been directed
to the necessity of preparing for a defense. This was
further stimulated by the Chicago suit, the one at bar,
in 1910, in which the Toledo Company filed an answer
averring among other defenses that the Smith patent had
been anticipated not only by the Phinney patent itself
but by prior manufacture, sale and commercial use by
Phinney of scales which embraced the device whose invention was claimed by Smith, and that this prior use
was at Pawtucket, Rhode Island.
In spite of this, the agents and counsel of the Toledo
Company never visited Pawtucket before the hearing on
the validity of the Smith patent in June, 1912. The only

420

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

reason for this failure is the suggestion that the model of
the cylinder deposited by Phinney in the patent office
with his application was a small solid wooden cylinder,
not full size, which led counsel to think that no practice
under the patent-would show lightness of material and
weight. It was a matter of equitable discretion for the
Circuit Court of Appeals to determine whether this was
sufficient excuse. Hopkins v. Hebard, 235 U. S. 287.
Certainly it was not an abuse of its discretion to hold that
it was not'a good one. The natural and obvious course
of one tracing olut evidence of prior commercial use of
Phinney which was formally averred in the Toledo Company's bill to have taken place at Pawtucket, would have
been to go to Pawtucket and look up Phinney, or, if dead,
his family and successors. Had this course been pursued,
Phinney's widow and son would have been found there
and several of those whose affidavits and depositions are
now produced who say that they bought and used the
Phinney scales made with light wood and paper cylinders.
From those witnesses, too, the investigator would have
been led directly to the proceedings in Federal Company
suit .in Philadelphia, the record of which contained all
this evidence, and he would have found without difficulty
the three original Phinney scales that-were exhibits in
thnt case. Nor can we say that it was an abuse of discretion for the Circuit Court of Appeals to refuse a similar
application, made in October, 1921, to open up the case
to 'perniit a rehearing of an issue, settled nine years before, when the evidence as to the lack of diligence of the
Toledo Company was just the same.
It is unnecessary to determine whether the applications
of 1913 and 1921 come within the proper definition of a
bill of review in a court of chancery. It is enough to say
that whether they were merely motions for rehearing, like
a motion for new trial at law, oi were applications in the
nature of a bill of review, they were addressed to the

TOLEDO CO. v. COMPUTING CO.
399

421

Opinion of the Court.

sound -discretion of the Court, and based as they were
upon the ground of newly discovered evidence, the indispensable condition of their being granted was that the
failure to discover the evidence in time for the trial was
not due. to a lack of diligence on the part of -the applicant. That condition precedent was not fulfilled.
Do the additional'facts averred in the bill filed in the
Ohio court change the situation? It is said they show
extrinsic fraud committed by the Computing Scale Company upon proof of which a court Qf equity, although in
another jurisdiction, having jurisdiction of the parties
may enjoin the one guilty of the fraud from profiting by
a decree so obtained. There has been much discussion
as to whether extrinsic fraud is here alleged, and the case
of United States v. Throckmorton, 98 U. S. 61, is cited
aid numerous other authorities since that case. We do
not find ourselves obliged to enter upon a consideration
of the sometimes nice distinctions made between intrinsic
and extrinsic frauds in the application of the rule, because in any case to justify setting aside a decree for fraud
whether extrinsic or intrinsic, it must appear that the
fraud charged really prevented the party complainink
from making a full and fair defense. If it does not so
appear, then proof of the ultimate fact, to wit, that. the
decree was obtained by fraud, fails. That is the case here.
The allegations of thebill and of the affidavits are of a
conspiracy by the inner circle of the Computing Scale
Company's agents commenced in 1902, years before the
Toledo Company began to make and sell cylinder drum
scales, to monopolize the business of making and selling
scales, to put the Toledo Company out of business, and
after it began to'make cylinder scales, to prevent it from
so doing by suits brought on the Smith patent which it
knew to be invalid because of the Phinney prior use. In
pursuance of the conspiracy it is charged that it proceeded
to buy up and keep from the Toledo Company knowledge

422

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

of, and access to, the Phinney scales. Proof is adduced
to show that the Computing Scale Company did buy up
as many of the Phinney scales as it could secure. But
there is not anywhere in the record, which we can find, or
which has been pointed out to us, any real evidence that
the Toledo Company was, in the slightest degree, interfered with by 4cts of the Computing C6mpany in its
search for evidence of the Phinney prior use. Had the
Toledo Company found, as it might easily have done, the
witnesses in Pawtucket, it would have found the oral evidence as to the existence of the Phinney scales and would
have been led directly to the Philadelphia suit where it
would have found the cylinders it did fuid after June 1912.
Moreover there were the Randall suit in Philadelphia in
1901 and the Standard suit in Wisconsin where other
Phinney scales were also exhibits and open to inspection
by the Toledo Company before 1912. There is not a scintilla of evidence to show any effort on the part of the
Computing Scale Company to induce any witnesses not
to testify, or to spirit them away from contact with the.
Toledo Company. There is nothing to show that if the
Computing Scale Company had not bought the Phinney
scales, the Toledo Company would have found them any
earlier. The passages in the brief on behalf of the Computing Company in the first hearing of the case on appeal'
in the Circuit Court of Appeals which stated that Phinney
had not made scales for commercial use had reference of
course to the record before the court, were made after the
trial in the District Court and so could not have misled
the Toledo Company in its preparation for that trial.
The conclusion is unavoidable that the only cause of the
failure of the Toledo Company to produce this Phinney
evidence was the mistake of the counsel for the Toledo
Company in assuming that an inadequate model in the
patent office filed by Phinney showed no relevant prior use
by him, and the failure of the Toledo Company's agents

TOLEDO CO. v. COMPUTING CO.
399

-

423

Opinion of the Court.

to take the ordinary and obvious course to make adequate
inquiry at Pawtucket as to the prior use which it had
averred in the bill. Certainly the Computing Scale Cormpany was not responsible for the inadequacy of Phinney's
model or for the failure of the Toledo Company to make
the inquiry before June, 1912. The averments as to conspiracy to monopolize, and to drive the Toledo Company
out of business and the details of the'purchase of Phinney
scales are all irrelevant because they are not shown to
have had any causal connection with the failure of the
Toledo Company to find .out earlier what it did stumble
on in 1913.
We do not understand it to be contended that there was
any relation between the Computing Scale Company and
the Toledo Company which made it the duty of the former
to furnish evidence to the latter to weaken its own case or
that silence in respect to the Phinney scales constituted
that kind of fraud which would invalidate the decree unless it was accompanied by acts which actually prevented
the Toledo Company's finding and availing itself of such
evidence. Clearly there is no such rule of law in a case
like this.
Another aspect of this record leads to the same conclusion. However nice the distinction between extrinsic and
intrinsic fraud, we have been cited to no case where it
has been held that fraud is extrinsic when the court rendering the decree attacked had before it the same issue
of fraud on the same facts, only a little more elaborated
as to the motive of the party charged with committing it.
The necessary inference from the affidavits filed in May,
1913, by the Toledo Company, and its depositions in 1917,
and its motion and briefs in 1921, in the Circuit Court of
Appeals, was that the Computing Scale Company had
been securing Phinney scales with a view of concealing
them from the Toledo Company, and these were all before the Circuit Court of Appeals when it finally refused

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

to open the decree on its merits in 1921 to let in the evidence. It did not add to the weight of that evidence for
the purpose for which it could be used in either court, that
this was the result of a conspiracy to monopolize trade or
that it grew out of a malicious feeling toward the Toledo
Company. What the District 'Court for Northern Ohio
was doing in hearing the injunction suit and issuing a
temporary injunction was merely reviewing the discretion
of the Circuit Court of Appeals of the Seventh Circuit in
dealing with the same ultimate facts and reaching a different conclusion. This was beyond its province. Embry v. Palmer, 107 U. S. 3, 11; Telford v. Brinkerhoff,
163 Ill. 439, 443; Marine Insurance Co. v. Hodgson, 7
Cranch, 332.
It is pressed upon us that the amount of this decree
which by reason of growing interest will consilerably exceed half a million dollars, is such that its enforcement
may be ruinous to the Toledo Company, and yet that'
company has never had an opportunity to bring to a
hearing this evidence of the Phinney prior commercial
use which on the showing and argument is clearly a complete defense to a suit prosecuted by an unscrupulous
competitor, conscious all the time of its falsity and injustice. This view of the case is not a fair one. The
Toledo Company had a chance to make a defense of the
Phinney prior use and failed to do so because of its own
lack of diligence. As it did not secure a hearing of the
Phinney defense, its opponent had no chance to meet it,
as possibly it might have done-by showing that the use
relied on was a futile one because the Phinney scale as
made was not practical or did not weigh accurately or
accomplish the purpose of the Smith patent. The fact
that but twenty machines were made, and that these
ceased to be used years -ago or were destroyed, suggests
the probability of such an answer. We can not know
what the result of the hearing would have been on this

TOLEDO CO. v. COMPUTING CO.
399

Opinion of the Court.

issue if tried, because only one side is presented. We are
prevented from knowing it by a most salutary rule of law
which after parties have had a full and fair opportunity
to prepare their case, refuses to permit them to drag out
litigation by bringing in new evidence which with due diligence they ought to have discovered before the hearing.
The apparent hardship of particular cases should not and
can not weigh against the application of this sound principle. As Mr. Justice Story remarked in Ocean Insurance
Co. v. Fields, 2 Story, 59; 18 Fed. Cas. 532, "It is for the
public interest and policy to make an end to litigation, or,
as was pointedly said by a great jurist, that suits may not
be immortal, while men are mortal."
The Surety Companies object to the order of the Circuit
Court of Appeals directing the District Court to enter
summary judgment against them for the amount due on
the decree, because it causes them to pay a decree which
the Toledo Company, their pincipal, deposited in Toledo
banks enough money to their order to pay, but which a
courf of competent jurisdiction enjoins them from paying,
or from using this money to pay. They say they are to
•be ground between the upper and the nether millstones.
They say they are indifferent between the parties and only
wish to b6 protected. The order which the Circuit Court
of Appeals directed against them was within its jurisdiction. Pease v. Rathbun-JonesEngineeringCo., 243 U. S.
273, 278. It.was right, was final, and they must obey it.
They can appeal from the order of the Ohio court. Indeed we are advised that the cause is now pending on
appeal in the Circuit Court of Appeals of the Sixth Circuit. If they satisfy the decree of the Seventh Circuit,
they can be reasonably confident that they will not be required to suffer a double burden. The Circuit Court of
Appeals of the Sixth Circuit is not likely to ignore the
ruling of this Court in the premises; and the cause pending in the Sixth Circuit can be brought within the juris-

diction of this Court at any time by certiorari.

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

It is objected that the Circuit Court of Appeals had
no power to direct the District Court to enjoin the Toledo
Company from further maintaining its Ohio bill or from
filing elsewhere any similar bill. It is also objected that.
it can not direct the District Court to assess the Computing Company's expenses including a reasonable attorney's
fee in the matter of the Ohio bill and to enter a summary
decree therefor. We think these orders were within the
power of the Circuit Court of Appeals. This Ohio proceeding was instituted to halt and defeat the decree of the
Circuit Court of Appeals, while that decree was still in
that court to be enforced by mandate to the lower court.
Under § 262 of the Judicial Code, that court had the right
to issue all writs not specifically provided for by statute
which might be necessary for the exercise of its appellate
jurisdiction. It could, therefore, itself have enjoined the
Toledo Company from interfering with the execution of
its own decree, Merrimac River Savings Bank v. Clay
Center, 219 U. S. 527, 535; or it could direct the District
Court to do so, as it did, Supreme Tribe of Ben-Hur v.
"Cauble,255 U. S. 356; Hart Steel Co. v. RailroadSupply
Co., 244 U. S. 294, 299; Kessler v. Eldred, 206 U. S. 285.
Moreover, when the character of the proceeding initiated
by the Toledo Company, a party before it, to stop the
execution of its decree was disclosed on a full hearing on
the petition for a rule against the Toledo Company, it
had jurisdiction to determine whether the filing and maintenance of the bill was in contempt of its jurisdiction,
New Orleans v. Steamship Co., 20 Wall. 387, 392; Swift
v. Black Panther Oil & Gas Co., 244 Fed. 20, 29; and
finding it to be so, to punish it by a compensatory imposition, Merrimac River Savings Bank v. Clay Center, 219
U. S. 527, 535; or to remand it to the District Court to

do so.
What we are considering here is the rightful course of a
court which having entered a final decree is proceeding

TOLEDO CO. v. COMPUTING CO.
399

427

Opinion of the Court.

upon the application of the successful party in the decree
to put it into lawful execution. It is advised by this
party that the quasi parties, the sureties who have made
themselves directly liable upon summary process for
prompt payment of the decree, have been enjoined from
complying with their obligation to the court by a court.
of another jurisdiction, that the, successful party has also
been enjoined from seeking enforcement of the decree,:
and all this at the suit of the party condemned in the
decree to pay and on the ground of fraud exercised upon
the court itself in obtaining the decree. If the sucbessful
party though thus enjoined, is willing to risk punishment
for contempt by the enjoining court, and applies,-for
enforcement of the decree, the court whose decree it is, is
clearl not ousted of jurisdiction to proceed to execute it.
The proceeding in the enjoining court is solely in per.sonam and does not affect the power or functions of the
court .whose decree is in question. -Ifadvised that there
is r6al ground for impeachment of its decree, it may in
its discretion stay its hand until the 'issue is-determined in
another court of competent jurisdiction, but if upon examination it finds no such ground advanced, it may .properly 'roceed to sec.re to the successful party the fruits of
his litigation. If the defeated party in .his suit in another" jurisdiction only seeks to restrain the successful"
party from prosecuting his decree to payment, there
should be unusual circumstances of disrespect to. the court
entering the'decree to justify punishment for contempt.
But, when he unites in his new suit for an injunction the
sureties who, as quai-'parties, are obliged to respond to
the decree in the course of execution, he puts himself in
contempt' of the court whose decree it is, and may be
punished for it. In the former case he is merely restraining a party who, without disobedience or disrespect to any
obligation to the court making the decree, *has full discretion and liberty to withhold his hand in pressing it to

428

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

261 U.S.

execution. In the latter case, he is obstructing the process of the court in a proceeding in which its action has
been properly and lawfully invoked. The degree of pun-.
ishment for contempt in such case is in the discretion of
the court whose dignity has been offended and whose
process has been obstructed. New Orleans v. Steamship
Co., 20 Wall. 387. Certainly it was not an abuse of discretion in this case to impose as a penalty, compensation
for the expenses incurred by the" successful party to the
decree in defending its rights in the Ohio court.
Decree affirmed.
KELLER ET AL., CONSTITUTING THE PUBLIC
UTILITIES COMMISSION OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA, v. POTOMAC ELECTRIC POWER
COMPANY ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 260. Argued February 26, 27, 1923.-Decided April 9, 1923.
1. In a proceeding brought by a public utility against the Public
Utilities Commission of the District of Columbia, in the Supreme
Court of the District, under par. 64 of § 8 of the Act o, March
.4, 1913, c. 150, 37 Stat. 974, the court is empowered, not merely
to decide legal questions and questions of fact as incident thereto,
but also to amend and, if need be, enlarge valuations, rates and
regulations established by the Commission, which the court finds
upon the record and evidence to be inadequate, and to make such
-order as in its judgment the Commission should have made. P. 440.
2. This is legislative, as distinguished from judicial, power. Id.
3. Under the power ",to exercise exclusive legislation in all cases
whatsoever" over the District of Columbia, (Const. Art. I, § 8,
cl. 17,) Congress may vest this jurisdiction in the courts of the
* District. P. 442.
4. But such power can not be conferred upon this Court; and the
provision made by the above act (par. 64) for appeals here from
the Court of Appeals of the District is, therefore, void. P. 443.
5.,The failure of this provision of the act does not, however;.affect
the other provisions of par. 64 of the act giving jurisdiction to

