BANK OF AMERICA v. WHITNEY-BANK.

171

Opinion of the Court.

BANK OF AMERICA v. WHITNEY CENTRAL
NATIONAL BANK.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE SOUTHER
DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 205. Argubd January 15, 1923.-Decided February 19, 1923.
A national bank held not suable in a State where it had no place of
.business, resident officers or employees or business attended to by
its officers or employees, but where deposits were kept and business
transacted on -its behalf by local banks as its correspondents.
.P.172.
Affirmed.

ERROR to 'ah order of the District Court setting aside
an attempted service of summons.
Mr. Henry Root Stern, with Whom Mr. George N.
Hamlin was on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
-Mr.Martin Coniboy and Mr. J. Blanc Monroe, with
whom Mr. Monte, M. Lemann was on the brief, for
defendant in error.

MR. Jusnc

BRANDEIS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The Bank of America, 'a
New York corporation, brought
this action in the federal court for the Southern District '
of New York, against the Whitney Central National
Bank,. which has its banking house and usual ,place of
business at New, Orleans, Louisiana. Service of process
was made solely by delivering a summons to its president
while temporarily in New York. Defendant appeared
specially; challenged 'the jurisdiction of the court; and.
moved that the servicm be set aside. The questions of
fact arising on the motibn were referred to a special
master to take proofs and make findings. The motion
was heaMd upon his-report;. and the service was set aside-

172

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

on the ground that defendant was not amenable to process
within the district. The case is here under § 238 of the
Judicial Code; the question of jurisdiction having been
duly certified. The sole question for decision is whether,
at the time of the service of the process, defendant was
doing business within the district in such manner as to
warrant the inference that it was present there. Philadelphia & Reading Ry. Co. v. McKibbin, 243 U. S. 264,
265; Roseniberg Bros. & Co. v. Curtis Brown Co., 260
U. S.516.
The facts relied upon to establish presence of the
defendant within the district consist wholly of its relations to the Hanover National Bank and five other banks,
whose places of business are located in New York, and of
transactions conducted through them. Each of these six
banks is, what is commonly called, a correspondent of the
'defendant. In each the Whitney Central carries continuously an active, regular deposit account. But its
transactions with these banks are not limited to making
deposits and drawing against them. Superimposed upon
the simple relation of bank and depositor are numerous
other transactions which necessarily involve also the relationship of principal and agent. These additional transactions conducted by the correspondent banks include:
payment in New York of drafts drawn, with accompanying documents, against letters of credit issued by defendant at New Orleans; the receipt in New York from
brokers and others of securities in which the Whitney
Central or its depositors are interested, and the delivery
of such securities; the making of payment to persons in
New York for such securities; the holding of such securities on deposit in New York for long periods and arranging substitution of securities; the cashing, under specific
instructions from defendant given in New Orleans, of
checks drawn on it by third parties with whom it had no
banking or deposit relations; the receipt in New York

BANK OF AMERICA v. WHITNEY BANK.
171

173

Opinion of the Court.

from third parties, with whom defendant apparently had
no banking relations, of deposits of moneys for account of
its customers.
The Whitney Central had what would popularly be
called alarge New York business. The transactions were
varied, important and extensive. But it had no place of
business in New York. None of its officers or employees
was resident there. Nor was this New York business
attended to by any one of its officers or employees resident elsewhere. Its regular New York business was
transacted for it by its correspondents--the six independent New York banks. They, not the Whitney Central, were doing its business in New York. In this respect
their relationship is comparable to that of a factor acting
for an absent principal. The jurisdiction taken of foreign
corporations, in the absence of statutory requirement or
express consent, does not rest upon a fiction of constructive presence, like qui facit per alium facit per se. It
flows from the fact that the corporation itself does business in the State or district in such a manner andltb such
an extent that its actual presence there is established.
That the defendant was not in New York and, hence, was
not found within the district is clear.
Whether a national bank could under- any circumstances be subjected, *ithout its consent, to suit in a
State or district, other than that in which it is authorized
to locate its banking house, we have no occasion to consider in this case.1
Affirmed.
1

See Revised Statutes, §.5190, and other acts concerning the place

in which a national bank may. do business. 29 Ops. Atty. Gen. 81,
98; and concerning the district in which a national bank may be sued.
See Revised Statutes, § 5198; Act July 12, 1882, c. 290, § 4, 22 Stat.
162; Act August 13, 1888, c. 866, § 4, 25 Stat. 433; Judicial Code,
subdiv. 16 of § 24; FirstNational Bank, of Charlotte v. Morgan, 132
U. S.141, 145; ContinentalNational Bankc of Memphis v. Ruford, 191
U. S. 119, 123, et seq.

