WABASH RY. v. ELLIOTT.

457

Opinion of the Court.

WABASH RAILWAY COMPANY v. ELLIOTT.
CERTIORARI TO THE KANSAS CITY COURT OF APPEALS, STATE
OF MISSOURI.
No. 225.

Argued January 16, 1923--Decided April 9, 1923.

Where a claim for personal injuries occasioned by the operation of
a railroad while in the exclusive possession and control of the
United States acting through the Director General of Railroads,
was" compromised and settled between that official and the claimant without participati6n by the railway company, an attorney
who had contracted with the claimant to compromise or enforce
the claim for a percentage of the recovery, and who did not consent to the settlement, had no cause of action under a state lien
statute (Rev. Stats. Mo., 1919, ยง 691) against the railway company.

P. 460.
208 Mo. App. 348; reversed.

CERTIORARI to a judgment-of the Kansas City Court of
Appeals affirming a judgment against the Railway Company, in an action to enforce an attorney's statutory lien.
Mr. Frederic D. McKenney, with whom Mr. N. S.
Brown was on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Martin J. O'Donnell, with whom Mr. George H.
Kelly, Mr. Win. Buchholz and Mr. Isaac B. Kimbrell
were on.the brief, for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER delivered the opinion of
the Court.
Oh April 2, 1918, while the railroad of the Wabash
Railway Company was in the possession of the United
States and operated by the Director General of Railroads,
Mern G. Welker, a brakeman on that railroad, was fatally
injured and died in circumstances which, under the Employers' Liability Acts of Congress; probably would have
made the railway company liable in daanges for his

458

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
-

Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

injury and death had the company been operating the
railroad at the time. His widow became the administratrix of his estate and as such entered into a contract with
Miles Elliott, an attorney at law, under which the latter
was to investigate the claim for the injury and death,
compromise the same, or enforce it by suit, and have for
his service fifty per cent. of all moneys received. Elliott
caused a notice, addressed to the railway company and
reciting the substance of the contract, to be served on one
Stepp, who was the station agent of the Director General
at Chillicothe, Missouri. The contract was made and the
notice given under a, statute of Missouri (ยง 691, R. S.
1919) which provides that such a contract shall, after the
service of. notice, give the attorney a lien on the claim
and the proceeds for his portion or percentage, and that"any defendant or defendants, or proposed defendant
or defendants, who shall, after notice served as herein provided, in any manner, settle any claim, suit, cause of action, or action at law with such attorney's client, before
or after litigation instituted thereon, without first procuring the written consent of such attorney, shall be liable
to such attorney for such attorney's lien as aforesaid
"
upon the proceeds of such settlement,
June 5, 1918, Elliott commenced an action by the
administratrix against the railway company in the circuit
court of Livingston County, Missouri, to enforce the
claim. Before there was any appearance by the railway
company in that case, the Director General, acting
through a claim agent in his employ, compromised the
claim with the administratrix, paid to her $4,000 from the
funds of the United States Railroad Administration and
received from her a written instrument acknowledging the
receipt of that sum from him and releasing him and the
railway company from all claims and demands by reason
of Welker's injury and death. The Director General
also paid to her from the same funds the further sum of

WABASH BY. v. ELLIOTT.
457

459

Opinion of the Court.

$162.85 to cover funeral and burial expenses. As part of
the compromise and settlement the admhiistratrix and
the claim agent acting for the Director General entered
into a stipulation bearing the title of the action against
the railway company, reciting that the subject-matter of
the action had been fully settled between the parties and
consenting that the action be dismissed at defendant's
costs. This stipulation was presented and filed in the circuit court by counsel acting for the Director General.
The settlement and the stipulation for a dismissal were
without the consent of Elliott and no part of the sum paid
to the administratrix was paid by her to him.
January 11, 1919, Elliott began a proceeding against
the railway company in the circuit court of Livingston
County, where the action of the administratrix was pending, to enforce a lien under his contract and the state statute. In his petition he set forth the matters before
stated, save that instead of recognizing the federal control
and operation of the railroad, he directly charged the
railway company with all that was done by the Director
General and the representatives, agents and employees of
the latter; and he alleged that as part of the compromise
and settlement the company promised the administratrix
to pay to him, as his compensation or percentage under
the contract, the same amount that was paid to her. His
prayer was that his lien be enforced by awarding him a
judgment against the conpany for that sum. In an
amended petition he made the Director General a party,
charged both the railway company and the Director General with what he had before charged against the company alone and prayed judgment against both.
Separate answers were filed, but that of the Director
General need not be noticed. The company's answer set
up, among other things, (1) that the federal possession,
control and operation of the railroad covered all the dates
named in the petition and there Was no possession or

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

operation by the company during that period; (2) that
the acts charged against the company in the petition, in
so far as they had any reality, were solely the acts of
representatives, employees and agents of the Director
General; and (3) that the suit of the administratrix and
the proceeding by Elliott could not be maintained against
the company but only against the Director General. As
showing the nature of the federal, control and the company's freedom from liability for acts or omissions in the
course of such control, the answer directed attention to
and invoked the application of the acts of Congress, proclamations of the President and orders of the Director
General according to which that control was exercised.
On the trial the court found the issues between
Elliott and the railway company in favor of the former
and those between Elliott and the Director General in
favor of the latter. Judgment was then entered that
Elliott recover $4,162.85 from the company and nothing
from the Director General. The company appealed to
the Kansas City Court of Appeals and it affirmed the
judgment. 208 Mo. App. 348. That court refused to
transfer the case to the Supreme Court of the State and
the latter denied a petition asking it to review thd judgment on writ of certiorai. After the avenues of review
within the State were thus exhausted this Court granted
a petition for a writ of certiorari to the Kansas City
Court of Appeals to bring thd case here.
Complaint is made of several rulings, but only.one need
be considered. Conformably to the local practice the
railway company, at the close of the evidence, requested
the court to declare that there ,wasno evidence to sustain
a finding against it,. and therefore the finding and judgment should be in its favor. This request was based in
part on what the company claimed was the right construction and application of the congressional enactments,
presidential proclamations, and orders of the Director

WABASH RY. v. ELLIOTT.
457

Opinion of the Court.

General relied on in its answer. The request was refused.
We think it plainly should have been granted.
Affirmatively and without contradiction the evidence
established that at the time of Welker's injury and death
and continually until after Elliott's proceeding was begun
the company's railroad was in the exclusive possession
and Control of -the United. States and operated by the
Director General of Railroads; that Welker's injury and
death were not caused by any act or omission of the company or anyone in its employ, and that the company had
nothing to do with the compromise and settlement with
the administratrix and did not promise to pay her attorney. The courts below apparently assumed that the
.claim agent who effected the compromise and settlement
represented the company as well as. the Director General;
but the assumption was wholly inadmissible. The evidence was directly and positively to the contrary. -The
claim agent had been in the company's service prior to
the federal control, but during that control was only in
the service of the Director General. The payment to the
*administratrix was made by a check drawn by the Director General on funds of the United States Railroad Administration and the receipt taken from her recited that
the payment was by the Director General. Indeed, so
far as appeared, the company did not know of the compromise and settlement until after. Elliott's proceeding
was begun. In all the evidence there.were but two matters which, even if separated from the rest, could give any
color to what was assumed below. One was the inclusion
of thle company in the release. But this was explained
consistently with the other evidence by an accompanying
recital that the sum received by the administratrix from
the Director General was the sole consideration for the
release, and.by the fact that in the circumstances simple
justice to the company' would suggest its inclusion in the

462

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

release. The other matter was that the claim agent
signed the stipulation for a dismissal of the pending suit
as attorney for the company. But this was made quite
negligible by direct evidence that the claim agent had no
authority to act or speak for the company and by the
fact that the Director General, during whose operation
the claim arose and for whom the claim agent was acting,
was free to have himself -substituted as a, party in the
company's place and to assume 'the defense of that suit.
See MissouriPacific R. R. Co. v. Ault, 256 U. S.554.
To sustain its asserted freedom from liability in such
circumstances the' company relied particularly on ยง 10
of the Federal Control Act of March 21, 1918) c. 25, 40
Stat. 451, and General Order No. 50 by the Director General of Railroads, U. S. R. R. Administration Bulletin
No. 4 (Revised), p. 334. That statute and order were
considered at length in Missouri PacificR. R. Co. v. Ault,
supra, and were there construed as contemplating and
intending that rights of action arising out of acts or omissions occurring in the course of the federal control of a
railroad should be against the Director General and not
the company owning the road. That decision was followed and applied in North Carolina R. R. Co. v. Lee,
260 U. S. 16, and its principle was recognized in .Aiabama
& Vicksburg Ry. Co. v. Journey, 257 U. S.111, and Davis
v. L. N. Dantzler Lumber Co.; ante, 280.
Thus whatever claim the administratrix had for Welker's injury and death was against the Director General,
not the company. Elliott's lien, if he had one, was on
that claim. The settlement of the claim was strictly an
'It also relied incidentally on the Act of August 29, 1916, c. 418,
Stat. 619, 645; the President's Proclamation'of December 26,1917,
40 Stat. 1733; General Orders Nos. 18, 18a and 26 by the Director

-39

General of Railroads, U. S. R. R. Administration Bulletin No. 4
(Revised), pp. 186, 187, 196, and ยง 206 of the T2snsportatiofi Act of

February 28, 1920, c. 91, 41 Stat. 456.

FED. TRADE COMM. v. SINCLAIR CO.

463

Syllabus.

457

act of the Director General done in the course of the federal control. No liability could attach to the company
for that act consistently with the federal statute and order
just cited. Whether the particular liability defined in the.
state statute before quoted was of such a nature that it
could be applied to the Director General we need not consider, for there was no appeal from the judgment of the
circuit court in his favor. See Missouri Pacific R. R. Co.
v. Ault, pp. 563, et seq.; Norfolk-Southern R. R. Co. v.,
Owens, 256 U. S.565:
Judgment reversed.

FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION v. SINCLAIR
REFINING COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION v. STANDARD
OIL COMPANY (NEW JERSEY).
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION v. GULF REFINING COMPANY.
FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION v. MALONEY OIL
& MANUFACTURING COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

Nos. 213, 637, 638, 639. Argued March 8, 9, 1923.-Decided April 9,
1923.

1. The practice, upon the part of a manufacturer of gasoline, of
leasing underground tanks with pumps to retail dealers, at nominal rentals and upon condition that the equipment shall be used
only with gasoline supplied by the lessor, is not in violation of the
Clayton Act.

P. 473.

