BALT. & OIO R. R. v. UNITED STATES.

385

Opinion of the Court.

BALTIMORE & OHIO RAILROAD COMPANY v.
UNITED STATES.
APPFAL FROM THi COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 208. Argued March 7, 1923.-Decided March 19, 1923.
1. To permit a recovery under the "Dent Act "y c. 94, 40 Stat. 1272,
there must have been an agreement express or implied. P. 386.
2. Where, at the insistence of Army officers, a railroad company
hastened construction of a branch line to reach an drdnance depot,
and in so doing, on its own determination, without notice to the
Government or mention of compensation, went to additional expenses, held, that no agreement on the part of the Government to

repay them could be implied. P. 387.
56 Ct. Clms. 377, affirmed.

ApP&L from a judgment of the Court of Claims dismissing a petition on demurrer.
Mr. John F. McCarron, with whom Mr. George E.
Hamilton was on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Blackburn Esterline, Assistant to the Solicitor General, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE SAw-oRD
Court.

delivered the opinion of the

The Railroad Company filed its petition in the Court
of Claims asking judgment for the amount of certain
"extraordinary expenses." which it claimed to have incurred in constructing a branch railroad to the Ordnance
Depot at Curtis Bay, Maryland, under "an informal or
implied agreement" with officers of the War Department
for the reimbursement of such expenses by the United
States. The Dent Act, March 2, 1919, c. 94, 40 Stat.
1272. A demurrer to this petition was sustained. 56 Ct.
Clms. 377

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

The allegations of the petition setting forth specifically
"the nature, terms and conditions" of the " agreement ",
may be thus summarized: Having previously determined
to build a branch railroad into the Curtis Bay region,
for the purpose of developing new territory, the Railroad
Company, in the summer of 1917, at the request of the
War Department, changed in part the location of the
proposed line so as to pass alongside the Ordnance Depot
which the War Department planned to build. The company then contracted with a construction company for
the building of the railroad to the site of the Depot, on
a, unit-price basis. The work was greatly delayed by the
relocation of the line, and carried into the winter months.
After numerous conferences as to means of expediting
the work, the officers of the Department, in December,
insisted that the operations at the Depot would be seriously hampered unless the company could greatly increase progress on the construction of the railroad, andthat, in order to furnish track facilities for handling construction materials and freight at the Depot, it was very
urgent that the railroad be completed at the earliest
possible moment. Thereupon, in order to meet the urgent
needs of the Department, the company, in January, 1918,
determined to and did cancel the contract for constructing the railroad on a unit-price basis, and made a contract
with another construction company for completing it on
a cost plus basis. By working continuoisly, day and
night, the new contractor completed the railroad to the
Depot in the latter part of February, before it would
have been completed under the original contract. The
excess cost of thus constructing the railroad under the
cost plus plan and the extraordinary expense incurred in
hurrying its completion, amounted to $85,474.06; for
which judgment was prayed.
These allegations show no "agreement, express or implied" for the payment of these expenses, which is sen-

LAYNE &c. CO. v. WESTERN WELL WORKS. 387
385

Syllabus.

tial to an.award in plaintiff's favor under the provisions
of the Dent Act.' No express agreement is alleged. And
manifestly the mere fact that, on the urgent insistence
of the officers of the Department that the construction
of the railroad be hastened so as to handle construction
materials for the Depot and other freight (necessarily
yielding revenue to the railroad), the company, on its
own determination, substituted the cost plan of construction -for the unit-price plan, without any notice to the
Department of its intention so to do or of the increased
expenses that would result, does not, in the a]bsence of
any intimation that it would look to the United States
for reimbursement of such increased expenses or of any
suggestion by the Department that such reimbursement
would be made, afford any substantial basis upon which
an agreement for the payment of such expenses can be
implied.
The judgment of the Court of Claims dismissing the
petition is accordingly
"
Affirmed.
LAYNE & BOWLER CORPORATION v. WESTERN
WELL WORKS, INC., ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE.
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 278. -Argued March 5, 1923.-Decided April. 9, 1923.
A writ of certiorari, issued to

settle a'supposed conflict of decision
between two circuit courts of appeals concerning the validity
and scope of a patent, will be dismissed,. as improvidently granted,
when later examination proves that such conflict did not exist.
P. 392.
Writ of certiorari to revie* 276' Fed. 465, dismissed.

CERTIORARI:+O review a decree of the Circuit Court of
Appeals reversing a decree of the District Court which
enjoined the respondents here from acts found to be in-

