OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

261 U. S.

parties. Section 1930 provides: 'In such an action or
special proceeding, the court must, in a proper case, substitute a successor in office, in place of a person made a
party in his official capacity, who has died or ceased to
hold office; but such a successor shall not be substituted
as a defendant, without his consent, unless at least fourteen days' notice of the application for the substitution
has been personally served upon him."'
We infer. from this and from the substitution, already
referred to, made by the Supreme Court of New York in
Long Sault Development Co. v. Call, 242 U. S. 272, s. c.
Matter of Long Sault Development Co., 212 N. Y. 1, that
such substitutions are a matter of state practice and law,
and, as already said, this enables us to avail ourselves in
such a case, as this of that practice. City of Boston v.
Jackson, supra.
The motions for substitutwn of the State Tax
Commission of New York for Wendell, Comptroller,
and of Sher'nan, Attorney General, for Newton, Attorney General,will be granted.
VANDENBURGH v. TRUSCON STEEL COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS -FOR THE
SIXTH CIRCUIT.

No. 273. Argued January 17, 1923.-Decided February 19, 1923.
1. A patent cannot be extended by reissue to a field beyond its
original intention. P. 14. Miller v. Brass Co., 104 U. S.350.
2. Patent No. 841,741, to Vandenburgh, for a bar, to be used in
reinforcing concrete construction, provided on one side with a series
of kerfs, each with an integral overlapping spur, and a spiral coil
disposed in the kerfs and retained beneath the spurs, is not infringed by a collapsible construction consisting of a spiral loosely
engaging two spacer bars. P. 14.
3. The method of attaching a metal spiral to a metal rod by kerfs,
was anticipated in metal working and in reinforcing concrete, and

VANDENBURGH v. TRUSCON CO.
6

Statement of the Case.

adding a spur or clamp, or hammering the kerr edges, to fix the
rod, involved no invention P.. 15.
277 Fed. 345, affirmed.

This was a bill in equity by Vandenburgh praying an
injunction and accounting for the infringement of a patent granted him January 22, 1907, No. 841,741, and reissued to him August 15, 1916. Reissue No. 14,182. The
patent is for a reinforcing bar to be used in concrete construction.
The patent since reissue has been the subject of litigation in the second, third and sixth circuits. In all the circuits, the first and second claims of the reissue have been
held void because too broad and because secured nine
years after the original issue for the purpose of covering
intervening devices. In the second circuit, Judge Hough,
sitting on the District Court, found that claim 3 must be
so narrowly construed that defendant's device did not
infringe. The Circuit Court of Appeals sustained the
third claim and found infringement, reversing the District
Court's decree, and sent the case back for assessment of
profits which have been found to be about $15,000.00.
In the third circuit, Judge Orr found clain No. 3 invalid
for lack of invention. The Circuit Court of Appeals
sustained the decree of dismissal b: the District Court,
but on the ground of non-infringement.
In the sixth circuit Judge Westeihaver took the same
view as Judge Orr and dismissed the bill. The Circuit
Court of Appeals affirmed the action of the District Court
on the ground that, if valid, claim No. 3 must -be so
narrowly construed that the defendant did not infringe.
The drawings accompanying the specifications of the
patent axe the same in'the reissue and appear on the page
following.
The specifications say:
"The invention has for an object to provide a reinforcing-bar with one or more spirally-disposed coils secured to

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Statement of the Case.

261 TLS.

the bar so as to provide an extended area of contact
adapted to resist strain longitudinally and laterally of the
bar and to form a truss within the body of concrete or

other plaster material which provides .the maximum of
supporting strength in the arch or surface to be formed.
"Other and further objects and advantages of the
invention will be hereinafter set forth, and the novel features thereof defined by the appended claims.

VANDENBURGH v. TRuSCON CO.
6

Statement of the Case.

"In the drawings,. Figure 1 is a vertical section showing
the bar applied to. supporting girders or beams. Figure
2 is an enlarged vertical section on the-line 2-2, Fig. 1.
Fig. 3 is a detailed perspective of the primary and secondkry coils shown in Fig. 1. Fig. 4 is a similar view of
a modified form using one coil. Fig. 5 is a detailed plan
of the form shown in Fig. 3; and Fig. 6 is an elevation of
two.meshing coils'used for girder and column construetion.
"The bar may be provided with a primary coil 6, extending in one direction, as shown in Fig. 4, which is sufficientin light construction; but when a heavier construction is to be used a secondary coil 7 is provided, which
extends in the opposite direction to the boil 6 and through
the same so as to cross beneath the coil 6 at a point
directly above the bar, thus providing a construction in
which all lateral pull or strain of the. coil is avoided,
owing to the equalization thereof by the oppositely-extending coils and the tendency of the coils to move or
flatten toward the face of the bar resisted. This. preferred construction- is shown in Figs. 1 and, 3,_ and it is
also desirable that both of the coils be deflected away
from the center of the bar, as shown in Fig. 1, as the
greatest supporting strain carried by the arch is at the
center thereof, and this deflection therefore resists such
strain and tends to draw the coils upward into a pbsition
at right angles to the bar.
"As a preferred means of securing the coils to the bar I
have shown a series of kerfs. 8 in one face of the bar indined away from the center of the bar toward the opposite ends thereof, and the coils are seated within these
kerfs and held therein by means of the integral spurs 9,
which are forced downward upon *the coils when inserted
and permanently retain them in position.

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Statement of the Case.

261 U. S.

"In Fig. 6 a modified application of the invention is
shown where two of the bars are disposed parallel to each
other, with their coils intermeshing, for use in column or
girder construction, wherein such a construction provides
the maximum of strength with the minimum of weight in
the reinforcing material.
"In the operation of the invention it will be seen that
the bar supporting the coil resists any movement thereof
longitudinally of the bar and provides the necessary
strength upon which the truss structure *formed by the
coils is carried."
The first four claims of the original patent were as
follows:
1. In a reinforcing bar, a spiral coil rigidly secured
thereto at two points in each convolution thereof and extended beyond and free of said bar at the opposite side
therefrom to the securing-point.
2. In a reinforcing-bar, a spiral coil rigidly secured
thereto at two points in each convolution thereof and extended beyond and free of .said bar at the opposite side
therefrom to the securing-point, said coils being deflected
in opposite directions from the center of the bar toward
the ends thereof.
3. A reinforcing-bar provided upon one end with a
series of kerfs each having an integral overlapping spur,
and a coil disposed in said kerfs, each convolution thereof
being retained beneath one of said spurs.
4. A reinforcing-bar provided upon one edge .with a
series of kerfs disposed diagonally to the length of the bar
each having an bverlapping integral spur projected toward
the center of the bar, and a coil disposed in said kerfs and
retained beneath said spurs.
The first and second claims of the reissued patent were
as follows:
1. A concrete reinforcing consisting of a bar having a
plurality of integral spurs, and a spiral coil permanently

VANDENBURGH v. TRUSCON CO.'
6

Opinion of the Court.

secured thereto by having the spurs bent down on the
several coils,- the coils extending beyond and free of the
bar at the opposite side therefrom to the securing point.
2. A concrete reinforcing consisting of a bar having integral means to secure a coil thereto, and a spiral coil permanently secured to the. bar in each convolution and
extended beyond and free of said bar at the opposite side
therefrom to the securing point.
The third and fifth claims of the .reissued patent were
the same as the .third and fourth of the original.
The defendant makes and sells a collapsible spiral, or
cylindrical helix used in strengthening concrete columns
or pillars. It consists of a cylindrical spiral of steel wire
fitted to two T bars or spacers. Each convolution of the
spiral engages the leg or outside edge of the T spacers at
regular intervals. The engagement is loose fitting so that
this construction which is normally, stove pipe shaped can
be made flat for shipment by moving the metal rods or
spaces longitudinally in opposite directions. The method
by which the spiral is attached to the spacer bar is 'a
rectangular notch in the edge of the T bar, with one or
both corners peened or hammered down so as to retain
and loosely hold the spiral. This is said to infringe the
claims of plaintiff's reissued patent Nos. 1 and 2 and also
claims 3 and 5 which were in the reissue as in the original
patent, except that in claim 3 the word end was changed
to edge to correct an obvious error.
Mr. 0. Ellery Edwards and Mr. Carlos P. Griffin for
petitioner.
Mr. W.F. Guthrie,with whom Mr. E. N. Pagelsen was
on the brief, for respondent.MR. CHiEF Jusrct TAFr, after stating the case as
above, delivered the opinion of the Court.
The expansion and improvement of the art of reinforcing concrete began several decades ago. There were two

12 -

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

different needs, one was for strengthening concrete beams
and the other for strengthening inerete columns. The
term reinforcing bar is usually applied in the art to a rod
or bar used to reinforce a concrete beam against the tension longitudinal of the beam itself. The concrete itself
has great power of resisting compression, but it has not
tensile strength and its weakness manifests itself in cracking along the lower half of the beam. A steel bar placed
below the middle of the beam furnishes the useful tensile
resistance. But it was found that certain diagonal cracks
developed in the beam toward the respective ends of the
beam and it was sought to prevent these by minor auxiliary rods attached to the main reinforcing bar. This was
the field which Vandenburgh entered and devised an arrangement, shown in Figure 1 of his drawings, of a reinforcing bar imbedded in the lower part of the beam with
transverse loops or spirals, part on one side of the center
of the bar and part on the other and fitted rigidly into the
bar so that those on each side leaned at an angleaway from
the center and in an opposite inclination from those on the
other. In strong, construction, these spiral loops were
doubled by a second spiral which meshed with the first.
Now, as the specifications show, this arrangement of the
bar and opposing spirals was to apply the truss principle
to the strengthening of the beam and to give it the tensional resistaice along the lower part of theybeam and
against the diagonal tensions near the ends of the beam.
No one can read the specifications and examine the drawings without perceiving that this was the gist of the Vandenburgh invention. Reference is made to the use of the
plan for column construction, but the only use of it for
that purpose is shown in Figure 6, which discloses two
upright reinforcing bars with their spirals meshing but
connected in no other way.
The truss formation was not especially adapted to the
needs and strains of the concrete column. The.history of

VANDENBURGH v. TRUSCON CO.
6

Opinion of the Court.

that field in the art shows that one of the pioneers was a
Frenchman named Considere, who some years before the
plaintiff's patent had shown that the tendency of concrete
in a column was to expand outwardly under the vertical
pressure to which it was chieffy exposed and the best way
of reinforcing columns was by pouring the liquid concrete
into a hooping made of a series of independent hoops, or
into a continuous helicoidal spiral or cylindrical helix of
a steel Wire or rod, of a stove pipe form. After him,
column hooping became common in the art as the only
practical method of column reinforcing and the convolutions of the spiral were spaced and supported by steel
uprights with which they engaged in various ways. In
one French patent, the convolutions were tied with steel
wire to the spacers. It is the form of this engagement
between the uprights and the spirals which is the crux of
the present suit.
The preferred form of Vandenburgh' for the engagement between his reinforcing bar and the spiral loops of
his truss arrangement is -by a kerf or cut in the edge of
bar inclined away from its center in. which the coil rod is
placed and held therein by an integral spur forced downward upon the coil when inserted, which permanently
retains it in position. The defendant has a rectangular
cut in the edge of the T 'spacer or .upright and retains
the spiral rod in it by peening or hammering down the
edges of the cut so as to keep the rod' from slipping out,
but leaving play enough to permit the collapsing of the
spiral and shipment in its collapsed form. Others had
adopted a-similar form of, engagement. Observing this,
Vandenburgh who had not used or exploited his original
patent in. any way, went back to the patent office and
secured a reissue in which he was permitted to broaden
his first and second- claims with r~spect to the kerfs and
spurs so as to change the word "rigidly" used in: the
original claim to "permanently." Having done this, he,

14-

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

proceeded to sue in the second, third and sixth circuits
persons using what he insisted were equivalents of his
form of engagement in their column hooping reinforcement of concrete columns. All the courts, and there are
six of them, have held these changed claims of the reissued patent to be void and to give him no right to claim
infringement in the collapsible feature of the column
hooping. The original specifications leave no doubt that
the patentee used the word "rigidly" deliberately and
properly because his truss, as he portrayed it, required
rigid connection between the spiral loops and the main
reinforcing bar. His making his form of engagement
loose was an afterthought to catch makers who had not
been advised in his specifications that there was anything
collapsible in his truss formation. The reissue as to the
first two claims was in the teeth of the admonitions of
this Court speaking through Mr. Justice Bradley in
.Miller v. Brass Co., 104 U. S. 350. They are therefore
void.
Counsel for the patentee. say now that the collapsible
feature was only an incidental matter, and that what they
now rely on is the combination under claims 3 and 5 of
the reinforcing bar provided upon one edge with a series of
kerfs each having an integral overlapping spur and a coil
each convolution thereof being beneath one.of the spurs.
We do not think the respondent has this combination.
We think the patentee's combination must be limited to
a spiral with one bar in the truss formation, or at least
one in which the spiral is free at one end and has no
second support or spacer such as respondent uses. Patentee relies on Fig. 4 of his drawing and says that to add
another spacer or.bar is only the work of a mechanic;
but he can not properly -say so because Fig. 4 is only a
detail of Fig. 1 of the drawings and was intended to be
a lighter construction of -the same beam with the same
truss combination'as shown in Fig. 1. Moreover, it is

VANDENBURGH v. TRUSCON CO.
6

,Opinion

ot the Court:

perfectly obvious from the description and some of the
claims that the spiral of Vandenburgh was intended to
be free of all but the bar shown. This is made certain
by, Fig. 6 which ,isthe only application of the device to
column use shown and in that we have two bars standing
* upright each engaged with convolutions of a spiral, the
loops of each spiral meshing with those of the other spiral
but free of the other bar. It is clear to us that Vandenburgh having secured a patent •for a truss form of reinforcement and finding it unworkable, for it never has
been adopted in the trade or in any structure, is through
reissue seeking to expand the paper combination he claims
into a field in which it does not belong.
But it is insisted that Vandenburgh was the first to
introduce into the field of concrete reinforcing the kerf
and integral spur to clamp, the spiral rod, that this involved invention, and that claim No. 3 should be construed to secure him a reward for this. It may be true
-that in the field of reinforcing concrete the kerf and spur
had not been used bef6re as Vandenburgh used it, but
the kerf and spur were old in the art in kindred fields.
• They were old in metal working art. Exactly the equiv,alent is shown in sand screens for mixing the materials of
concrete and in sustaining fence wires. It is difficult to
differentiate the field of metal working from-this art of
reinforcing concrete because the problem was only one
of spacing firmly the convolutions of the metal spiral and
that was a well known device for such a need. We do not
think the principle of Potts v. Creager, 155 U. S. 597,
applies in' this case. More than this in the very field
itself, there was a prior German patent of Kieserling &
Moller showing the use of the kerf for spacing a spiral in
M
reinforcing concrete. It does not seem to us that it involved real invention merely to add a spur or clamp or
to peen or hammer down the edges of the kerf so as to fix
tie spiral rod firmly. We find therefore that claims 3 and

16

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

5 were without merit as involving invention and that the
action of the Circuit Court of Appeals should be
Affirmed.
CONCRETE STEEL COMPANY v. VANDENBURGH.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 238.

Argued January 17, 1923.-Decided February 19, 1923.

Decided upon the grounds expressed in Vandenburgh v. Truscon
Steel Co., ante, 6.

278 Fed. 607, reversed.
CERTIORARI

to a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals

sustaining a patent and awarding damages for infringement.
Mr. Thomas J. Johnston, with whom Mr. Lucius E.
Varney was on the brief, for pptitioner.
Mr. 0. Ellery Edwards and Mr. Carlos P. Griffin, with
whom Mr.Joseph W. Cox was on the brief, for respondent.
Mr. Solicitor General Beck, Mr. Assistant Attorney
General Lovett and Mr. Melville D. Church, by leave of
court, filed a brief on behalf of the United States, as
amici curiae.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE

TAFr delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a review of the decree of the Circuit Court of
Appeals -of the Second Circuit sustaining the validity of
claim No. 3 of the Vandenburgh patent, just considered
in the previous case of Vandenburgh v. Truscon Steel
Co., ante, 6, and awarding $15,000 for profits to Vandenburgh for defendant's infringement. The two cases
can not be distinguished. We must, therefore, reverse

