476

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.
Syllabus.

261 U. S.

gaged in the conflict for advantage called competition.
The great purpose of both statutes was to advance the
public interest by securing fair opportunity for the play
of the contending forces ordinarily engendered by an honest desire for gain. And to this end it is essential that
those who adventure their time, skill and capital should
have large freedom of action in the conduct of their own

affairs.
The suggestion that the assailed practice is unfair because of its effect upon the sale of pumps by their makers
is sterile and requires no serious discussion.
The judgments below must be
Affirmed.

HARTFORD LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY
DOUDS ET AL.,- EXECUTORS OF DOUDS.

v.

HARTFORD LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY v.
LANGDALE.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OHIO.

Nos. 265 and 271.

Argued March 7, 1923.-Decided April 9, 1923.

1. The lack of power in a state court to interfere in the management of an insurance company of another State or to control the
discretion of its officers, does not deprive it of jurisdiction to render a pecuniary judgment, in an action by an insured to recover
amounts collected through assessments exceeding the maxima specified in the contract of insurance. P. 478.
So held where the company appeared and contested the jurisdiction,
upon the ground that the proceedings involved its internal affairs
and the validity of its action relative to its Safety Fund Department, over which matters the courts of its domicile had exclusive
jurisdiction, and that the enforcement of the judgment would deprive it of property without due process of law. Hartford Life
Ins. Co.v. Ibs, 237 U. S. 662, distinguished.
13 Ohio St. 398, 433, affirmed.

HARTFORD INS. CO. v. DOUDS.
476

477

Opinion of thie Court.

CERTIORARI

to judgments of the Supreme Court of Ohio

affirming judgments against the Insurance Company in
actions by the respondents to recover money paid under
excessive assessments.
Mr. Harry B. Arnold, Mr. James C. Jones, Mr. Frank
H. Sullivan and Mr. James C. Jones, Jr.,,for petitioner,
submitted.
Mr. Smith W. Bennett, with whom Mr. Hugh M. Bennett was on the brief, for respondents.
MR.

JUSTICE M

REYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
These are separate causes, but the facts are similar and
both present the same essential question. A statement
based upon record No. 271 will suffice.
Petitioner is a Connecticut corporation with home office
-at Hartford. For many years it has carried on the business of insurance upon the assessment or mutual plan
within the State of Ohio. May 4, 1882, it issued to respondent Langdale, aged forty, a certificate of membership, Safety Fund Department, for three thousand dollars. This recites that in consideration of representations, etc., and "the further payment, in accordance with
the conditions hereof, of all mortuary assessments," the
Company agrees (among other things) to assess holders
of certificates" according to the table of graduated assessment rates given hereon, as determined by their respective
ages and the number of such certificates in force," and pay.
the amount so colledted to the assured's legal representatives.
. The "Table of graduated assessment rates for death
losses for every $1,000 of a total indemnity of $1,000,000"
is printed upon the certificate and shows increasing rates
for ages from fifteen to sixty. The highest specified rate

478

OCTOBER TERM, 1922.

Opinion of the Court.

261 U. S.

is at sixty-$2.68. Immediately after the table this
statement appears: "These rates decrease in proportion
as the total indemnity in force increases above one million. dollars in amount, and are calculated so as to cover
the usual expense for collecting."
During th6 years 1903 to 1914 the Company made and
the insured paid assessments on account of death losses at
rates varying from $2.86 to $4.00 per thousand. To recover all above $2.68 per thousand so paid, with interest,
respondent brought suit in the Common Pleas Court,
Franklin County, Ohio. The Company appeared, demurred and later answered, saving at all times the question of jurisdiction. A judgment against it was affirmed
by the Supreme Court. 103 Ohio St. 398, 433.
Petitioner now insists that the trial court lacked jurisdiction of the subject-matter; that the suit involved the
management of its internal affairs and the validity -of
action relative to ihe Safety Fund Department; that the
courts of Connecticut have exclusive jurisdiction over
such matters; and that enforcement of the Ohio judgment
will deprive it of property without due process of law.
The court below confined its ruling concerning jurisdiction to the trial court's power to render the above mentioned money judgment. And it held that to determine
the issue did not require exercise of visit.orial power over
the foreign corporation; that the judgment did not interfere with the discretion of petitioner's officers or the management of its internal affairs. This conclusion, we think,
right.
is plainly
By a written
contract petitioner had agreed that no
mortuary assessment should exceed $2.68 per thousand.
It demanded and received more, and respondent sued to
recover the excess. All parties came before the court; the
necessary facts were established; and he obtained judgment for a definite sum of money. This cannot interfere
with the management of the Company's internal affairs.

GT. LAKES CO. v. KIEREJEWSKI.
476

479-

Statement of the Case.

In the recent cause of Frick v. HartfordLife :Insurance
Co., 119 AtI. 229, instituted to enforce an Iowa judgment
(179 Iowa, 149) against petitioner based upon facts essentially like those here disclosed, the Supreme Court of Connecticut considered the precise point now urged upon us.
In harmony with Dresser v. HartfordLife Insurance Co.,
80 Conn. 681, 709, it held that the membership certificate
constituted a contract not to demand of the assured more
than $2.68 per thousand for any mortuary assessment;
and also that the jurisdiction of the Iowa court to render
judgment for excess payments was clear.
HartfordLife Insurance Co. v. Ibs, 237 U. S. 662, is not
in point. That controversy related to the effeQt - of the
decree in Dresserv. Hartford Life Insurance,Co., supra, a
class suit instituted to determine the status and proper
use of the mortuary, fund. The causes now under, consideration present no such problem.
The judgments below are
Affirmed.

GREAT LAKES DREDGE, & DOCK COMPANY v.
KIEREJEWSKI, ADMINISTRATRIX OF KIEREJEWSKI.
ERROR TO THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE WESTERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 633. Argued February 27, 1923.-Decided April 9, 1923.
The District Court has admiralty jurisdiction over a libel to recover
damages, in accordance with a local death statute, for a death occurring on navigable waters while the decedent was there performing maritime service to a completed vessel afloat, and occasioned by a tort then and there committed. P. 480.

Affirmed.
ERROR to a judgment of the District Court recovered
by the defendant in error in her libel for damages for the
death of her husand.

