STONE, Auditor, v. FARMERS' BANK OF KENTUCKY.

409

Statement of the Case.

STONE v. D EPosrr BANK OF FAwKFORT, all argued February
28 and March 2, 1899, and the others are reported below.

STONE, Auditor, v. FARMERS' BANK OF KENTUCKY.
FARMERS' BANK OF KENTUCKY v. STONE,
Auditor.
Nos. 885, 886.

Argued February 28, March 2,1899. -Decided

May 15, 1899.

The decree below, so far as it granted the relief prayed as against the
defendants other than the city of Georgetown and the county of Scott,
is affirmed by a divided court; and, so far as it adjudicated against the
complainant and in favor of the defendants the city of Georgetown
and the county of Scott, those defendants not having been parties or
privies to the judgments pleaded as res judicata, is affirmed upon the an-thority of the decision in Citizens' Savings Bank of Owensboro v. Owensboro, 173 U. S. 636.

THE sE appeals were taken from a decree rendered in a suit
in equity brought by the Farmers' Bank of Kentucky against
Samuel H. Stone, auditor, Charles Findly, secretary of State,
and G. W. Long, treasurer of the Commonwealth of-Kentucky, constituting a state board of valuation and assessment; the board of councilmen of the city of Frankfort; the
county of Franklin; the city of Henderson; the county of
Henderson; the city of Georgetown; and the county of
Scott. The object of the bill and of an amended and supplemental bill was to restrain the valuation of the franchise of
the complainant under the provisions of a revenue act of Kentucky, enacted November 11, 1892, as also the certification of
such valuation and the collection of taxes thereon for the years
1895, 1896, 1897 and-1898.
It- was averred in the bill that the complainant was chartered
on February 16, 1850, to endure until May 1, 1880; and that
in and by the fifteenth section of the charter of complainant
it was provided as follows:
"It shall be the duty of the cashier of the principal bank,

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

on the 1st day of July, 1851, and on the 1st day of July in
each succeeding year during the continuance of this charter, to
pay to the treasury of this Commonwealth fifty (50) cents on
each one hundred dollars of stock held and paid for in said
bank, which shall be in full for all tax or bonus: Provided,
That no tax shall be paid until said bank goes into operation:
And providedfurther,That the tax or bonus hereby proposed
to be imposed on each share of stock in this bank, or such as
shall hereafter be imposed on each share, is hereby set apart
and forever dedicated to the cause of education on the common school system; and that whenever the same, or any part
thereof, shall be diverted otherwise by legislative enactment,
said bank shall then be exonerated from the payment of any
tax or bonus whatever."
It was further averred that on March 10, 1876, the charter
of the bank was extended to May 1, 1905, by the following
enactment:

"SEC. 1. That the charter of the Farmers' Bank of Kentucky as amended be extended for the period of twenty-five

(25) years from the termination of its charter as therein fixed:
Provided, That said charter and amendments shall be subject
to amendment or repeal by the general assembly by general
or special acts: And provided further, That whilst the privileges and franchises so granted may be chafiged or repealed,
no amendment or repeal shall impair other rights previously
vested."
It was then averred that after the extension of the charter,
in consequence of an attempt of the county of Franklin to collect a tax from the bank for county purposes, under the
authority of an act of Kentucky passed in 1876, which statute,
it was alleged by the bank, was in violation of the charter
exemption of the bank, the complainant brought, and carried
to a successful termination in 1888, in the Court of Appeals of
Kentucky, a suit to enjoin the county named from collecting
the taxes complained of. The judgment rendered was pleaded
as res judicata.
The enactment, on May 17, 1886, of a law, commonly denominated as the Hewitt Act, relating to the taxation of

STONE, Auditor, v. FARMfERS' BANK OF KENTUCKY.

411

Statement of the Case.

banks, was next stated in the bill. An acceptance of the terms
of that act was averred, which it was claimed constituted an
irrevocable contract with the complainant.
It was next
alleged that on November 11, 1892, the legislature of Kentucky passed a revenue act which subjected banks in the State
to county and municipal taxation, and to a much greater rate
of taxation than was provided in the Hewitt Act. Complainant then pleaded as esjudicata judgments rendered in 1895
and 1896 in its favor by courts of the State of Kentucky, in
suits brought by the bank to enjoin attempts to collect from
it alleged franchise taxes under the supposed authority of the
revenue act of 1892. The defendants, who were parties to the
suits in question, were averred to be the county of Franklin
and the sheriff of that county; the board of councilmen of
the city of Frankfort; the city of Henderson; and the county
of Henderson and its sheriff. The several decrees, it was
alleged, conclusively established that the acceptance of the
Hewitt Act constituted an irrevocable contract with the bank
as respected taxation, and that the revenue act of 1892, in
certain particulars, impaired such contract, and in so far as
it did so was in violation of the Constitution of the United
States and void.
Certain of the defendants filed pleas to the jurisdiction.
All the defendants demurred to the bill, and some filed
answers, to which plaintiff filed replications. The demurrers
and pleas were overruled, and the cause was heard upon the
pleadings and attached exhibits. On January 21, 1898, a
final decree was entered sustaining the claims of 'es judicata
made in the bill, and granting the relief prayed for so far as
respected the assessment, certification and collection of franchise taxes for the benefit of the 'defendants the board of
councilmen of the city of Frankfort, the county of Franklin,
the city of Henderson and the county of Henderson. It was
held, that by the judgments relied upon by complainant, it
had been conclusively adjudicated as to those defendants that
the Hewitt Act constituted an irrepealable contract, and that
the provisions of the revenue act of 1892 in conflict with
that act impaired the terms of such contract, and were void.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Syllabus.

(88 Fed. Rep. 987.) The decree adjudged that as to the defendants the county of Scott and the city of Georgetown,
who were found not to have been either parties or privies
to the records and decrees constituting resjudicata,that no
irrevocable contract had been established, by judgment or
otherwise, and as to those defendants the bill was therefore
dismissed. From the decree thus entered both parties appealed
to this court.
31r. Ira Julian for Georgetown and Scott County.
Henry L. Stone for Louisville.

X.

.X&. Alexander Pope Elumphirey, r'. -Frank Chinn, -r.
James P. 1elm and -Yr.John IT Rodman for the banks.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

The decree below, so far as it granted the relief prayed as
against the defendants other than the city of Georgetown
and the county of Scott, is affirmed by a divided court. The
decree, so far as it adjudicated against the complainant and in
favor of the defendants the city of Georgetown and the county
of Scott, those defendants not having been parties or privies
to the judgments pleaded as res judicata, must be affirmed
upon the authority of the decision in Citizens' Savings Bank
of Owensboro v. City of Owensboro and A. .X.C. Simmons,
Tax Collector, 173 U. S. 636.
And it is so ordered.
STONE v. BANK OF COMMERCE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.
NO.862. Argued February 28, March 2, 1899.

Decided May 15,
1899.

Citizens' Savings Bank v. Owensboro, 173 U. S. 636, followed to the point
that in'the case of a bank whose charter was granted subsequently to
the year 1856, and which had accepted the provisions of the Hewitt Act,

