OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

AMERICAN REFRIGERATOR TRANSIT COMPANY
v. HALL.
EEO

TO THE SUPREMIE COURT OF THE STATE OF COLORADO.

Wo. 226. Argued and submitted March 16, 17,1899. - Decided April 24, 189.
It having been settled, by previous decisions of this court, that where a corporation of one State brings into another State, to use and employ, a
portion of its movable property, it is legitimate for the latter State to
impose upon such property thus used and employed, its fair share of
the burdens of taxation imposed upon similar property, used in like way
by its own citizens, it is now held that such a tax may be properly assessed
and collected when the specific and individual items of property so used
(railway cars) were not continuously the same, but were constantly changing according to the exigencies of the business, and that the tax may be
fixed by an appraisement and valuation of the average amount of the
property thus habitually used and employed; and that the fact that such
cars were employed as vehicles of transportation in the interchange of
interstate commerce would not render their taxation invalid.

IN March, 1896, the American Refrigerator Transit Company, a corporation organized under the laws of the State of

Illinois, filed, in the district court of Arapahoe County, State

of Colorado, against Frank Hall, treasurer of said county, a
bill of complaint seeking to restrain the defendant from enforcing payment by the said transit company of certain taxes
assessed upon refrigerator cars owned by the company, and
used for the transportation of perishable freight over .various
lines of railroad throughout the United States. The bill alleged
that the business in which said cars were engaged was exclusively interstate commerce business; that the company has
and has had no office or place of business within the State of
Colorado, and that all the freight transported in plaintiff's
cars was transported either from a point or points in a State
outside of the State of Colorado to a point within that State,
or from a point in the State of Colorado to a point without
said State, or between points wholly outside of said State;
that said cars had no taxable situs within said State; that said
-assessment of taxes upon said cars was without authority of

AMERICAN REFRIGERATOR TRANSIT CO. v. HALL.

71

Statement of the Case.

law and void; and that complainant had no plain or adequate
remedy at law.
A demurrer to the complaint was overruled and answer was
filed denying some and admitting other allegations of the bill.
At the trial the parties agreed to and filed the following stipulation:
"1st. That plaintiff is and was during the times mentioned
in the petition a corporation duly organized and existing by
virtue of the laws of the State of Illinois, with its principal
office in the city of East St. louis, in said State; that it is engaged in the business of furnishing refrigerator cars for the
transportation of perishable products over the various lines of
railroads in the United States; that these cars are more expensive than the ordinary box or freight car; that the cars
referred to are the sole and exclusive property of the plaintiff,
and that the plaintiff furnishes the same to be run indiscriminately over any lines of railroad over which shippers on said
railroads may desire to route them in shipping, and furnishes
the same for transportation of perishable freight upon the direct request of shippers or of railroad companies requesting
the same on behalf of shippers, but on the responsibility of the
carrier and not of the shipper; that as compensation for the
use of its cars plaintiff received a mileage of three fourths
of a cent per mile run from each railroad company over whose
lines said cars are run, such rate of payment being the same
as is paid by all railroad companies to each other for the use
of the ordinary freight cars of each when used on the lines of
others in the exchange of cars incident to through transportation of freight over connecting lines of railroads; that plaintiff
has not and never has had any contract of any kind whatsoever by which its cars are leased or allotted to or by which it
agrees to furnish its cars to any railroad company operating
within the State of Colorado; that it has and has had during
said times no office or place of business nor other property
than its cars within the State of Colorado, and that all the
freight transported in plaintiff's cars in or through the State
of Colorado, including the cars assessed, was transported in
such cars either from a point or points in a State of the United

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

States outside of the State of Colorado to a point in the State of
Colorado, or from a point in the State of Colorado to a point
*outside of said State, or between points wholly outside of said
State of Colorado, and said cars never were run in said State in
fixed numbers nor at regular times, nor as a regular lhart of particular trains, nor were any certain cars ever in the State of
- Colorado,. except as engaged in such business aforesaid, and
.then only transiently present in said State for such purposes.
"That, owing to the varying and irregular demand for such
cars, the various railroad companies within the State of Colorado have not deemed it a profitabe investment to build or
own cars of such character, and therefore relied upon securing
such cars when needed from the plaintiff or corporations doing
a like business.
"That it is necessary for the railroad companies operating
within the Statb of Colorado, and which are required to carry
over their lines perishable freight, such as fruits, meats and
the like, to have such character of cars wherein they can safely
transport such character of freight.
"2d. That the average number of cars of the plaintiff used
in the course of the business aforesaid within the State of
Colorado during the year for which such assessment was made
would equal forty, and that the cash value of plaintiff's cars
exceeds the sum of $250 per car, and that if such property of
the plaintiff is assessable and taxable within such State of
Colorado, then the amount for which such cars, the property
of the plaintiff, is assessed by said state board of equalization
is just and reasonable, and not in excess of the value placed
upon other like property within said State for the purposes
of taxation.
"3d. That said company is not doing business in this State,
except as shown in this stipulation and by the facts admitted
in the pleadings.
" 4th. That in case it be found by the court under the undisputed facts set forth in the pleadings and the facts herein
stipulated that the authorities of the State of Colorado under
existing laws have no power to assess or tax the said property of plaintiff, then judgment shall be entered herein for the

AMERICAN REFRIGERATOR TRANSIT CO. v. HALL.

73

Statement of the Case.
plaintiff for the relief prayed; otherwise judgment shall be
entered for the defendants.
"The following constitutional and statutory provisions are
referred to in the opinion:
'All corporations in -this state, or doing business therein,
shall be subject to taxation for state, county, school, municipal and other purposes, on the real and personal property
owned or used by them within the territorial limits of the authority levying the tax.' (ยง 10, art. 10, state const.)
' SEc. 3765. (M. A. S.) All property, both real and personal,
within the State, not expressly exempt by law, shall be subject to taxation.
SEc. 3804. . . . It shall be the duty of said board (the
board of equalization) to assess all the property in this State
owned, used or controlled by railway companies, telegraph,
telephone and sleeping or palace car companies.
'SEo. 3805. The president, vice president, general superintendent, auditor, tax agent or some other officer of such railway, sleeping, general or other palace car, or telegraph or
telephone company, or corporation, owning, operating, controlling or having in its possession in this State any property,.
shall furnish said board on or before the fifteenth day of
March, in each year, a statement signed and sworn to by one
of such officers, and showing in detail for the year ending on
the thirty-first day of December preceding.'
"5th. A full list of rolling stock belonging to or operated
by such railway company, setting forth the number, class
and value of all locomotives, passenger cars, sleeping cars or
other palace cars, express cars, baggage cars, mail cars, box
cars, cattle cars, coal cars, platform cars and all other
kinds of cars owned or used by said company. The statement shall show the actual proportion of the rolling stock
in use on the company's road, all of which is necessary for
the transportation of freight and passengers, and the operation of the road within the State during the year for which
the statement is made. The said statement shall also show
the actual proportion of rolling stock of said company used
upon leased lines and lines operated with others within the

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

State, the mileage so leased and operated and the location
thereof.
"Tth. . . . Whenever it shall be found that one corporation uses or controls any property belonging to or owned
by another corporation, said board may assess such! property
either to the corporation using or controlling the same, or to
the corporation by which it is owned or to which it belongs.
But every such corporation shall, in the statement to said
board, set forth what property belonging to or owned by
any other corporation is used or controlled by the corporation making the statement."
The cause having come on to be heard, judgment was entered
on behalf of the plaintiff, awarding a perpetual injunction as
prayed for in the bill of complaint. Thereupon an appeal was
taken to the Supreme Court of the State, from whose decision,
reversing the judgment of the trial court and directing the dismissal of the bill, an appeal was taken to this court.:
_Mr. Judson Harman for plaintiff in error.
Werner was on his brief.

.Xr. Percy

.Mr. Alexander B. .McEzinley for defendant in error, submitted on his brief.
MR. JuSTICE Smaus, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
In this record we again meet the problem, so often presented, how to reconcile the rightful power of a State to tax
property within its borders with its duty to obey those provisions of the Federal Constitution which forbid the taking
of property without due process of law, and the imposition
of burdens upon interstate commerce.
The frequency with which the question has arisen is evi-deuce both of its importance and of its difficulty. The vast
increase of commerce throughout the country, and the consequent necessary increase of the means whereby such commerce is carried on, have been the occasion of many of the
cases in which this court has been called upon to consider the

AM(ERICAN REFRIGERATOR- TRANSIT CO. v. HALL.

75

Opinion of the Court.

subject. The expense involved in the manufacture of some of
the common articles in daily use and in their transportation is
so great as to be beyond the means of individuals, and has rendered necessary the aggregation of capital in the form of corporations. Usually such corporations, though organized under
the law of one State, make their profits by doing their business in several or all of the States, and, while so doing, receive
the protection of their laws. When the taxpayers of one
State perceive that they are subjected to competition by the
importation of articles made in another, or that they are contributing continually to the prosperity of foreign corporations,
what more natural than that they should demand that some
share of the public burdens should be put upon such corporations? The difficult task of the lawmaker is to meet that natural and proper demand without infringing upon the freedom
of interstate commerce, or depriving those engaged therein of
the equal protection of the laws.
In the case before us we do not need to go far in search of the
principles which determine it. We think they may be found
in the cases of Vest~etn Union Tel. Co. v. _assachusetts, 125
U. S. 530; Pidlman's Palace Car Co. v. Pennsy vania, 141
U. S. 18; and Adams Express Co. v. Ohio, 165 U. S. 194r.
In the first of those cases was involved the question of the
validity of a law of Massachusetts, which imposed on, the
Western Union Telegraph Company, a corporation of the State
of New York, a tax on account of the property owned and
used by it within the State of Massachusetts, the value of
which was to be ascertained by comparing the length of its
lines in that State with the length of its entire lines. This
court held that such a tax is essentially an excise tax, and
not forbidden by the commerce clause of the Constitution.
In Pullman's Palace Car Co. v. Pennsylbania the nature
of the case and the conclusion were thus stated-by Mr. Justice
Gray:
"The cars of this company within the State of Pennsylvania are employed in interstate commerce; but their being so
employed does not exempt them from taxation by the State;
and the State has not taxed them because of their being so

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

employed, but because of their being within its territory and
jurisdiction. The cars -were continuously and permanently
employed in going to and fro upon certain routes of travel. If
they had never passed beyond the limits of Pennsylvania it
could not be doubted that the State could tax them; like other
property within its borders, notwithstanding they were employed in interstate commerce. The fact that, instead of stopping at the state boundary, they cross that boundary in going
out and coming back, cannot affect the power of the State to
levy a tax upon them. The State, having the right, for the purposes of taxation, to tax any personal property found within
-its jurisdiction, without regard to the place of the owner's domicil, could tax the specific cars which at a given moment were
within its borders. The route over which the cars travel
extending beyond the limits of the State, particular cars may
not remain within the State; but the company. has at all
timessubstantially the same number of cars within the State,
and continuously and constantly uses there a portion of its
property; and it is distinctly found, as matter of fact, that
the company continuously, throughout the periods for which
these taxes were levied, carried on business in Pennsylvania,
and had about one huAdred cars within the State.
"The mode. which the State of Pennsylvania adopted to
ascertain the proportion of the company's property upon
which it should be taxed in that State, was by taking as a
basis of assessment such proportion of the capital stock of the
company as the number of miles over which it ran its cars
within the State bore to the whole number of miles, in that
and other States, over which its cars were run. This was a
just and equitable method of assessment; and if it were adopted
by all the States through which these cars ran, the company
would be assessed upon the whole of its capital stock and no
more."
Adam E pres8 Co. v. Ohio was a case wherein was drawn

in question the validity of a law of the State of Ohio imposing an assessment upon an express company whose business
was carried on through several States. The statute required a
board of assessors "to proceed to ascertain and assess the value

AMERICAN REFRIGERATOR TRANSIT CO. v. HALL.

7

Opinion of the Court.

of the property of express, telegraph and telephone companies
in. Ohio, and in determining the value of the property of skid
companies in this State, to be taxed within the State. and
assessed as herein provided, said board shall be guided by the
value of said property as determined by the value of the entire
capital stock of said companies, and such other evidence and
rules as will enable said board to arrive at the true value in
money of the entire property of said companies within the
State of Ohio, in the proportion which the same bears to the
entire property of said companies, as determined by the value
of the capital stock thereof, and the other evidence and rules
as aforesaid."
It was contended, on behalf of the express company, that the
law in question was invalid because it sought to impose taxes on
property beyond the territorial jurisdiction of Ohio; because
the assessments therein. provided for were an invasion of the
constitutional guaranty of the equal protection of the laws, and
because the assessments imposed a burden upon interstate commerce. But this court held otherwise. Portions of the opinion
of Mr. Chief Justice Fuller may be appropriately quoted:
"Although the transportation of the subjects of interstate
commerce, or the receipts received therefrom, or the occupation or business of carrying it on, cannot be directly subjected
to state taxation, yet property belonging to corporations. or
companies engaged in such commerce may be; and whatever
the particular form of the exaction, if it is esseutially only
property taxation, it will not be considered as falling within
Corporations and comthe inhibition of the Constitution.
panies engaged in interstate commerce should bear their proper
proportion of the burdens of the governments under whose
protection they conduct their operations, afid taxation on property, Pollectible by the ordinary means, does not affect interstate commerce otherwise than incidentally, as all business is
affected by the necessity of contributing to the support of
government.
"As to railroad, telegraph and sleeping car companies, engaged in interstate commerce, it has often been held by this
court that their property, in the several States through which

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court

their lines or business extended, might be valued as a unit for
the purposes of taxation, taking into consideration the uses
to which it was put and all the elements making up aggregate
value, and that a proportion of the whole fairly and properly
ascertained might be taxed by the particular Stafe -without
violating any Federal restriction.
"The valuation was thus not confined to the wires, poles
and instruments of the telegraph company; or the roadbed,
ties, rails and spikes of the railroad company; or the cars of
the sleeping car company; but included the proportionate
part of the value resulting from the combination of the means
by which the business was carried on - a value existing to an
appreciable extent throughout the entire domain of operation.
And it has been decided that a proper mode of ascertaining the
assessable value of so much of the whole property as is situated in a particular State is, in the case of railroads, to take
that part of the value of the entire road which is measured by
the proportion of its length therein to the length of the whole,
PittsburgkRailway v. Backus, 154 U. S. 421, or taking as the
basis of assessment such proportion of the capital stock of a
sleeping car company as the number of miles of railroad over
a particular State bears to the whole
which its cars are run 'in
number of miles traversed by them in that and other States,
Pullman's Palace Car Co. v. Pennsylvania,141 U. S.18, or
such a proportion of the whole value of the capital stock of a
telegraph company as the length of its lines within a State bears
to the length of its lines everywhere, deducting a sum equal to
the value of its real estate and machinery subject to local taxation within the State. Western Union 'Tel. Co. v. Taggart, 163
U. S. 1.
. "Doubtless there is a distinction between the property of
railroad and telegraph companies and that of express companies. The physical unity existing in the former is lacking
in the latter; but there is the same unity in the use of the
entire property for the specific purpose, and there are the
same elements of value arising from such use. The cars of
the Pullman Company did not constitute a physical unity, and
their value as separate cars did not bear a direct relation to

AMERICAN REFRIGERATOR TRANSIT CO. v. HALL.

79

Opinion of the Court.

the valuation which was sustained in that case. The cars
were moved by railway carriers under contract, and the taxation of the corporation in Pennsylvania was sustained on the
theory that the whole property of the company might be
regarded as a unit plant, with a unit value, a proportionate
part of which value might be reached by the state authorities
on the basis indicted."
On a petition for a rehearing, the questions were again
fully argued, and the conclusions reached on the first hearing
were reaffirmed. Adams Expr&es Co. v. Ohio, 166 U. S. 185.
From the opinion denying the rehearing, delivered by Mr.
Justice Brewer, a few extracts may be quoted as applicable.
to the case in hand:
"Where is the situs of this intangible property? The
Adams Express Company has, according to its showing, in
round numbers $4,000,000 of tangible property scattered
through different States, and with that tangible property thus
scattered transacts its business. By the business which it
transacts, by combining into a single use all these separate
pieces and articles of tangible property, by the contracts,
franchises and privileges which it has acquired and possesses,it has created a corporate property of the actual value of
$16,000,000. Thus, according to its figures, this intangible
property, its franchises, privileges, etc., is of the value of
$12,000,000, and its tangible property of only $4,000,000.
Where is the situs of this intangible property? Is it simply
where its home office is, where is found the central directing
thought 'which controls the workings of the great maqhine, or
in the State which gave it its corporate franchise, or" is that
intangible property distributed wherever its tangible property
is located and its work done? Clearly, as we think, the latter. Every State within which it is transacting business and
where it has its property, more or less, may rightfully say
that the $16,000,000 of value which it possesses springs not
merely from the original grant of corporate power by the
State which incorporated it or from the mere ownership of
the tangible property, but it springs from the fact that that
tangible property it has combined with contracts, frAnchises

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

and privileges into a single unit of property, and this State
contributes to that aggregate value not merely the separate
value of such tangible property as is within its limits, but its
proportionate share of the value of the entire property. That
this is true is obvious from the result that would follow if all
the States other than the one which created the corporation
could and should withhold from it the right to transact express
business within their limits. It might continue to own all its
tangible property within each of those States, but, unable
to transact the express business within their limits, that
$12,000,000 of value attributable to its intangible property
would shrivel to a mere trifle. . . . In conclusion, let us
say that this is eminently a practical age; that courts must
recognize things as they are and as possessing a value which
is accorded to them in the markets of the world, and that no
fine spun theories about situs should interfere to enable these
large corporations, whose business is carried on through many
States, to escape from bearing in each State such burden of
taxation as a fair distribution of the actual value of their
property among those States requires."
The constitution of the State of Colorado provides that all
corporations in the State or doing business therein shall be
subject to taxation on the real and personal property owned
or used by them within the territorial limits of the authority
levying the tax, and its statutes provide for a board of equalization, whose duty it shall be to assess all the property in the
State owned, used or controlled by railway companies, telegraph, telephone and sleeping or palace car companies; and
that whenever it shall be found that one corporation uses or
controls any property belonging to or owned by another corporation, said board may assess such property either to the
corporation using or controlling the same, or to the corporation to which it belongs.
The American Refrigerator Transit Company is a corporation of the State of Illinois, engaged in the business of furnishing refrigerator cars for the transportation of perishable
products over the various lines of railroads in the United
States, and receives as compensation for the use of its cars a

AMERICAN REFRIGERATOR TRANSIT CO. v. HALL.

81

Opinion of the Court.

mileage of three fourths of a cent per mile from each railroad
company over whose lines said cars are run.
The receiver of the Union Pacific, Denver and Gulf Company reported to the board of equalization that he had on the
line of the railroad which he was operating within the State of
Colorado forty-two refrigerator cars belonging to the American Refrigerator Transit Company on December 31, 18941.
The board thereupon assessed to the Transit Company said
forty-two cars, at a valuation of two hundred and fifty dollars
each, and distributed said assessment to the differeilt counties
through which the line of said railroad extended.
It was stipulated in the trial court "that it is necessary for
the railroad companies operating within the State of Colorado,
and which are required to carry over their lines perishable
freight, to have such character of cars wherein they can safely
transport such freight; and that owing to the varying and
irregular demands for such cars, the various -railroad com-'
panies within the State of Colorado have not deemed it profitable to build or own cars of such character, and therefore
rely upon securing such cars when needed from the Transit
Company, or corporations doing a like business."
It was further stipulated "that the average number of cars
of the plaintiff used in the course of the business aforesaid
within the State of Colorado during the year for which such
assessment was made would equal forty, and that the cash
value of plaintiff's cars exceeds the sum of two hundred and
fifty dollars per car, and that if such property of the plaintiff
is assessable and taxable within such State, then the amount
for which such cars, the property of the plaintiff, is assessed
by said state board of equalization is just and reasonable, and
not in excess of the value placed upon other like property
within said State for the purposes of taxation."
Applying the reasoning and conclusions of the cases hereinbefore cited to those admitted facts, we have no difficulty in
affirming the judgment of the Supreme Court of Colorado
sustaining the validity of the taxation in question.
The state statutes impose no burdens on the business of the
plaintiff in error, but contemplate only the assessment and
VOL. CLXMI--6

OCTOBER TERMI, 1898.
Syllabus.

levy of taxes upon the property situated within the State;
and the only questi6n is whether it was competent to ascertain the number of the cars to be subjected to taxation by inquiring into the average number used within the state limits
during the period for which the assessment was made.
It having been settled, as we have seen, that where a corporation of one State brings into another, to use and employ,
a portion of its movable personal property, it is legitimate for
the latter to impose upon such property, thus used and employed, its fair share of the burdens of taxation imposed upon
similar property used in like way by its own citizens, we think
that such a tax may be properly assessed and collected, in cases
like the present, where the specific and individual items of
property so used and employed were not continuously the same,
but were constantly changing, according to the exigencies of
the business, and that the tax may be fixed by an appraisement and valuation of the average amount of the property
thus habitually used and employed. Nor would the fact that
such cars were employed as vehicles of transportation in the interchange of interstate commerce render their taxation invalid.
3farye v. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad,127 U. S. 117; Pullman's Palace Car Co. v. Pennsylvania, 141 U. S. 18.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the State of Colorado is accordingly
-Afflrmed.
M . JusTICE HARLAN and MRt. JUsTICE Wamrr
HOLMES

.

dissented.

URST.

APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPRA.S FO

THE SE4COND

CIRCUIT.
No. 124. Argued March 3, 1899. -Decided April 24, 1899.
The serial publication of a book in a monthly magazine, prior to any steps
taken toward securing a copyright, is such a publication of the same
within the meaning of the act of February 3, 1831, c. 16, as to vitiate a
copyright of the whole book, obtained subsequently, but prior to the publication of the boolk as an entirety,

