OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

contract judicial aid for the enforcement of his alleged rights
under it tends strongly towards reducing the number of such
transactions to a minimum. The more plainly parties understand that when they enter into contracts of this nature they
place themselves outside the protection of the law, so far as
that protection consists in aiding them to enforce such contracts, the less inclined will they be to enter into them. In
that way the public secures the benefit of a rigid adherence
to the law.
Being of the opinion that the contract proved in this case
was illegal in the sense that it was fraudulent, and entered
into for improper purposes, the law will leave the parties as
it finds them.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals was right,
and must be
Afflrmed.

UNITED STATES v. DUDLEY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
No. 103. Argued April 19, 1899. -Decided May, 22, 1S99.
Sawed boards and plank, planed on one side and grooved, or tongued and
grooved, should be classified under the tariff act of August 28, 1894, 28
Stat. 508, as dressed lumber, and admitted free of duty.

THIs case originated in a petition filed in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the District of Vermont, for the review of a decision of the board of general appraisers to the
effect that certain imports made by the petitioner into the port
of Newport, of "sawed boards and plank, planed on one side,
tongued and grooved," and entered as "dressed lumber," were
not entitled to be admitted free of duty as "sawed boards,
plank, deals and other lumber, rough or dressed,"' under the
tariff act of August 28, 1891.
In June, 1895, Dudley imported from Canada eight carloads

UNITED STATES v. DUDLEY.
Opinion of the Court.

of boards and plank, planed on one side and grooved, or
tongued and grooved. The collector imposed a duty of
twenty-five per cent upon this lumber as a "manufacture of
wood," under paragraph 181 of the tariff act of August 28,
1894, c. 349, 28 Stat. 509, 521, which reads as follows: "House
or cabinet furniture, of wood, wholly or partly finished, manufactures of wood or of which wood is the component material
of chief value, not specially provided for in this act, twentyfive per centum ad valorem."
The importer protested, claiming that they should have been
imported free of duty as "dressed lumber" under paragraph
676.
The board of general appraisers sustained the action of the
collector, and the importer filed this petition for review in the
Circuit Court, which reversed the decision of the board. On
appeal by the United States to the Circuit Court of Appeals,
where the cause was heard by two judges, who. were divided
in opinion, the judgment of the Circuit Court was affirmed.
Whereupon the United States applied for and were granted
a *rit of certiorari from this court.
Mr.As8istant Attorney General R/ot for the United States
Mr. C. A. Prouty for Dudley.
MR. JUSTInC. BaowN, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

The imports in this case were eight carloads of spruce board
and plank, planed on one side, and tongued and grooved
They varied from one to three inches in thickness; from four
to eleven inches in width, and from twelve to twenty feet in
length. Some were "butted to exact lengths." They were
prepared for use by what is known as a "flooring machine,"
which is a combination of a simple planing machine with a
matching-

or tonguing and grooving-

machine.

Some of

the smaller mills use separate machines for planing and matching, the combination machine seeming to be of comparatively

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

recent origin. The boards were adaptable for flooring, ceiling,
sheathing, etc.
They were assessed for duty under paragraph 181 of the
tariff act of August 28, 1894, which imposed a duty of twentyfive per cent ad valorem upon "house or cabinet furniture, of
wood, wholly or partly finished, manufactures of wood or of
which wood is the component material of chief value, not
specially provided for in this act."
Upon the other hand, the importer insisted that they should
have been admitted free of duty under paragraph 676, which
exempts "sawed boards, plank, deals and other lumber, rough
or dressed," except certain lumber of valuable cabinet woods.
Forty-seven witnesses were examined before the board of
general appraisers, twenty-three of whom testified that lumber
which had been planed, grooved, tongued or beaded was still
"dressed lumber," even when finally shaped for the carpenter
to put together in roofing, flooring, ceiling, etc., and twentyfour testifying, in substance, that the term was only applicable to such as had been merely planed upon one or both
sides, and brought to an even thickness. It was admitted by
witnesses upon both sides that in ordering such articles the
term "dressed lumber" would not sufficiently describe them,
and that they were usually ordered by description or by their
specific designation, as flooring, etc.
Ordinarily, the fact that an article in the process of manufacture takes a new name is indicative of a distinct manufactuie, as was intimated in Tide Mater Oil Co. v. United.States,
171 U. S. 210, but we do not think it important in this case
that "dressed lumber" is divisible into flooring, sheathing and
ceiling, since sawed lumber is none the less sawed lumber,
'though in its different forms and uses it goes under the names
of beams, rafters, joists, clapboards, fence boards, barn boards
and the like. In other-words, a new manufacture is usually
accompanied by a change of name, but a change of name does
not always indicate a new manufacture. Where a manufactured article, such as sawed lumber, is usable for a dozen
different purposes, it does not ordinarily become a new manufacture until reduced to a condition where it .is used for one

UNITED STATES v. DUDLEY.
Opinion of the Court.

thing only. So long as "dressed lumber" is in a condition
for use for house and ship building purposes generally, it is
still "dressed lumber;" but if its manufacture has so far
advanced that it can only be used for a definite purpose, as
sashes, blinds, mouldings, spars, boxes, furhiture, etc., it becomes
a "manufacture of wood." It follows that the words "flooring, ceiling, sheathing," do not under this act describe a new
manufacture, but rather the different purposes for which
sawed lumber may be used. It is much like the commercial
division of lumber into "selects, common and culls," which
are all lumber, but of different qualities. None of these are
in reality new names, but merely specifications of tho more
general term "lumber." Indeed a manufacturer receiving an
order for lumber could not possibly fill it to the satisfaction
of his customer, without knowing the purpose for which it
was designed, or the quality desired.
The fact that "dressed lumber" is ordered under the names
of flooring, ceiling, sheathing, does not indicate that it is not
still "dressed lumber," but rather that it is of a quality or
width specially adapted to those purposes. Had it been of' a
particular quality, width and thickness, and sawn into lengths
which would make it usable only for the manufacture of
boxes, perhaps it might be termed a "manufacture of wood"
for the purposes of this act. It is true that the lumber in
question was in a condition to be used for flooring without
further manufacture, except such reductions in length as the
dimensions of the room might require; but it was also usable
for ceiling, sheathing and for similar purposes with n6 further
alterations. Had it so far been changed as to be serviceable
for only one thing, it is possible that it might be regarded as
a separate and independent manufacture, though under the
case of Tide lMater Oil Co. v. United States, 171 U. S. 210,
this may admit of some doubt. But while lumber planed
upon one or both sides may be "dressed lumber," we think
that when tongued and grooved it is still "dressed lumber,"
and not a new and distinct manufacture. In other words,
that tonguing and grooving is an additional dressing, but it
does not make it a different article. Lumber treated in this
VOL. cLxxxv-43

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Syllabus.

way is still known in the trade as lumber; advertised as
lumber; handled as lumber; shipped as lumber; bought and
sold by the thousand feet like lumber.
We also think that some light upon the proper construction
of the words "manufacture of wood" in paragraph 181 is
afforded by the fact that it is used in connection with "house
or cabinet furniture of wood, wholly or partly finished," and
is followed by the words "or of which wood is the component
material of chief value." This would indicate an article
"made up" of wood analogous to furniture or other article in
which wood is used alone or in connection with some other
material. It seems to us quite clear that it could not- have
been intended to apply to lumber which bad only passed beyond the stage of planed lumber by being tongued and
grooved.
Upon the facts of the present case we are of opinion that
the imports in question should have been classified as "dressed
lumber," and the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
therefore
Affirmed.

LOUISVILLE TRUST COMPANY v. LOUISVILLE,
NEW ALBANY AND CHICAGO RAILWAY COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOP THE SEVENTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 263. Argued April 24, 199. -Decided

May 22, 1899.

The New Albany Railway Company, whose road was in several States, guaranteed bonds of a Kentucky railway company to a large amount. It attempted by suit to avoid this guarantee as ultra vires. Its contention was
sustained by the Circuit Court, but that decree was reversed by the Circuit
Court of Appeals, and this court has sustained that decision. After the
decision of the Circuit Court of Appeals, Mills, a creditor of the company,
commenced suit in the Circuit Court of the United States. The company appeared and confessed judgment, and execution was issued and
returned unsatisfied. Thereupon the creditor filed a bill praying for the

