OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Syllabus.

a matter of error, and does not render the verdict a nullity.
The judgment of the Court of Appeals will therefore be 'e,versed and the case 'emanded with instructions to aflrm
the judgment of the Supreme Court of the District of

Columbia.

MORRIS v. UNITED STATES.
APPEA.L FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.
No. 49. Argued October 26, 27, 28, 31, November 1, 2, 8, 4, T,1898.-Decided May 1, 1899.
The grant by Charles I to Lord Baltimore on the 20th of June, 1632, included in unmistakable terms the Potomac River, and the premises in
question in this suit, and declared that thereafter the province of Maryland, its freeholders and inhabitants, should not be held or reputed a
member or part of the land of Virginia; and the territory and title thus
granted were never divested, and upon the Revolution the State of Maryland became possessed of the navigable waters of the State, including
the Potomac River, and of the soils thereunder, and, by the act of cession to the United States, that portion of the Potomac River with the
subjacent soil, which was appurtenant to and part of the territory granted,
became vested in the United States; and the court, in consequence, affirms
the judgment of the court below in respect of the Marshall heirs, denying their claims.
It was not the intention of Congress by the resolution of February'16, 1839,
to subject lands lying beneath the waters of the Potomac, and within the
limits of the District of Columbia, to sale by the methods therein provided; and the recent decisions of the courts of Maryland to the contrary, made since the cession to the United States, and at variance with
those which prevailed at the time of the cession, cannot control the decision of this court on this question; but as the invalidity of the patent
in the present case was not apparent on its face, but was proved by extrinsic evidence, and as the controversy respecting the patent was not
abandoned by the defendants, they are not entitled to a decree for the
return of the purchase money dr for costs.
It was the intention of the founders of the city of Washington to locate
it upon the bank or shore of the Potomac River, and to bound it by a
street or levee,. so as to secure to the inhabitants and those engaged in

MORRIS v. UNITED STATES.

197

Syllabus.
commerce free access to the navigable water, and such intention has
never been departed from.
As to land above high-water mark in Washi.gton, the title of the United
States must be found in the transactions between the private proprietors
and the United States.
The proprietors of such land, by their conveyances, completely divested
themselves of all title to the tracts conveyed, and the lands were granted
to the trustees.
The Dermott map was the one intended by President Washington to be annexed to his act of March 2, 1797; but the several maps are to be taken
together as representing the intentions of the founders of the city; and,
so far as possible, are to be reconciled as parts of one scheme or plan.
From the first conception of the Federal City, the establishment of a public
street, bounding the city on the south, and to be known as Water street,
was intended, and such intention has never been departed from; and it
follows that the holders of lots and squares, abutting on the line of Water
street, are not entitled to riparian rights, nor are they entitled to rights
of private property in the waters or the reclaimed lands lying between
Water street and the navigable channels of the river, unless they can
show valid grants to the same from Congress, or from the city on the
authority of Congress, or such a long protracted and notorious possession and enjoyment of defined parcels of land, as to justify a court,
under the doctrine of prescription, in inferring grants.
The Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company, having entered Washington long
after the adoption of the maps and plans, cannot validly claim riparian
rights as appurtenant to the lots or parts of lots which it purchased in
Water street; as it was the persistent purpose of the founders of the
city to maintain a public street along the river front ; and Congress
and the city only intended to permit that company to construcd and
maintain its canal within the limits of the city, and to approve its
selection of the route and terminus.
No riparian rights belonged to the lots between Seventh street west and
Twenty-seventh street west.
There is no merit in the claim of the descendants of Robert Peter.
It is impossible. to reconcile the succession of acts of Congress and of the
city council with the theory that the wharves of South Water street
were erected by individuals in the exercise of private rights of property.
The failure of the city to open Water street created no title in Willis to
the land and water south of the territory appropriated for that street.
The court does not understand that it is the intention of Congress, in
exercising its jurisdiction over this territory, to take for public use,
without compensation, the private property of individuals, and therefore,
while affirming the decree of the court below as to the claims of the
Marshall heirs, and as to the Kidwell patent and as to the claims for
riparian rights, it remands the case to the court below for further
proceedings.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

THE act of Maryland, entitled "An act to cede to Congress
a district of ten miles square in this State for the seat of the
Government of the United States," 1788, c. 46, was in the
following terms: "Be it enacted by the General Assembly of
Maryland, that the representatives of this State in the House
of Representatives 6f the Congress of the United States,
appointed to assemble at New York, on the first Wednesday
of March next, be and they are hereby authorized and required,
on behalf of this State, to cede to the Congress of the United
States any district in this State, not exceeding ten miles square,
which the Congress may fix upon and accept for the seat of
Government of the United States." (Kilty's Laws of Maryland.)
On December 3,1789, 13 Hening, c. 32, by an act entitled
"An act for the cession of ten miles square, or any lesser
quantity of territory within this State, to the United States,
in Congress assembled, for the permanent seat of the General
Government," Virginia ceded to the Congress and Government
of the United States a tract of country not exceeding ten
miles square, or any lesser quantity, to be located within the
limits of the State, and in any part thereof as Congress may
by law direct, in full and absolute right, and exclusive jurisdiction, as well of soil as of persons residing or to reside
thereon; providing that nothing therein contained should be
construed to vest in the United States any right of property
in the soil, or to affect the rights of individuals therein, otherwise than the same shall or may be transferred by such
individuals to the United States; and providing that the jurisdiction of the laws of the Commonwealth, over the persons
and property of individuals residing within the limits of the
said concession, should not cease or determine until Congress
should accept the cession, and should by law provide for the
government thereof under their jurisdiction.
Congress, by an act entitled "An act for establishing the
temporary and permanent seat of the Government of the
United States," approved July 16, 1790, c. 28, accepted a
district of territory, not exceeding ten miles square, to be
located on the river Potomac; and authorized the President

MORRIS v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

of the United States to appoint Commissioners, who should,
under the. direction of the President, survey, and by proper
'metes and bounds, define and limit the district, which, when
so defined, limited and located, should be deemed the district
so accepted for the permanent seat of the Government of the
United States. It was f'urther thereby enacted that the said
Commissioners should have power to purchase or accept such
quantity of land on the easfern side of said river, within the
said district, as the President should deem proper for the use
of the United States, and according to such plans as the
President should approve, and that the Commissioners should,.
prior to the first MIonday in December in the year 1800, provide suitable buildings for the accommodation of Congress,
and of the President, and for the public offices of the Government; and that on the said first Monday in December, in
the year 1800, the seat of the Government of the United
States should be transferred to the district and place aforesaid,
and that all offices attached to the Government should be
removed thereto and cease to be exercised elsewhere. The
act contained the following proviso,: "That the operation of
the laws of the State within said district shall not be affected
by this acceptance until the time fixed for the removal of the
Government thereto, and until Congress shall otherwise by
law provide." 1 Stat. 130.
On January 22, -A.D. 1791, Thomas Johnson and Daniel
Carroll, of Maryland, and Daniel Stuart, of Virginia, were
appointed by President Washington commissioners to carry
the foregoing legislation into effect.
On March 3, 1791,-Congress passed an amendatory act, by
which, after reciting that the previous act had required that
'the whole of the district of territory, not exceeding ten miles
square, to be located on the river Potomac, should be located
above the mouth of the Eastern Branch, the President was
authorized to make any part of the territory below said limit,
and above the mouth of Hunting Creek, a part of the said
district, so as to include a convenient part of the Eastern
Branch and of the lands lying on the lower side thereof, and
also the 'town of Alexandria, and that the territory so to be

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

included should form.a part of the district not exceeding ten
miles square for the seat of the government, but providing
that nothing contained in the act should authorize the erection of the public buildings otherwise than on the Maryland
side of the river Potomac.
On March 30, A.D. 1791, President Washington issued a
proclamation, describing the territory selected by him for the
location of the seat of government, as follows:
"Beginning at Jones' Point, being the upper cape of Hunting Creek in Virginia, and at an angle, in the outset, of fortyfive dggrees west of the north, and running in a direct line
ten miles for the first line; then beginning again at the same
Jones' Point and running another direct line at a right angle
with the first across the Potomac ten miles for the second
line; then from the terminations of the said first and second
lines, runiing two other direct lines of ten miles each, the one
crossing the Eastern Branch aforesaid and the other the Potomac, and meeting each other in a point."
The Commissioners were accordingly instructed by the President to have the said four lines run, and to report their action.
In the meantime intercourse was had between the Commissioners and the principal owners of property within the district, looking to the sale and conveyance by the latter of land
on which a Federal City was to be erected. And the following
agreement was signed by the proprietors:
"We, the subscribers, in consideration of the great benefits
we expect to derive from haying the Federal City laid off
upon our lands, do hereby agree and bind ourselves, heirs,
executors and administrators, to convey in trust, to the President of the United States, or commissioners, or such person or
persons as he shall appoint, by good and sufficient deed in fee
simple, the whole of our respective lands which he may think
proper to include within the lines of the Federal City, for the
purposes and on the conditions following:
"The President shall have the sole power of directing the
Federal City to be laid off in what manner he pleases. He
may retain any number of squares he may think proper for
public improvements, or other public uses, and the lots only

MORRIS v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

which shall be laid off shall be a joint property between the
trustees on behalf of the public and each present proprietor,
and the same shall be fairly and equally divided between the
public and the individuals, as soon as may be, after the city
shall be laid out.
"For the streets "theproprietors shall receive no compensation, but for the squares or lands in any form which shall be
taken for public buildings or any kind of public improvements
or uses, the proprietors, whose lands shall be so taken, shall
receive at the rate of twenty-five pounds per acre, to .be paid
by the public. The whole wood on the land shall be the property of the proprietors, but should any be desired by the President to be reserved or left standing, the same shall be paid for
by the public at a just and reasonable valuation exclusive of
the twenty-five pounds per acre, to be paid for the land on
which the same shall remain.
"Each proprietor shall retain the full possession and use
of his land, until the same shall be sold and occupied by the
purchasers of the lots laid out thereupon, and in all cases
where the public arrangements as to streets, lots, etc., will
admit of it, each proprietor shall possess his buildings and
other improvements and graveyards, paying to the public only
one half the present estimated value of the lands, on which the
same shall be, or twelve pounds ten shillings per acre. But in
cases where the arrangements of the .streets, lots and squares
will not admit of this, and it shall become necessary to remove
such buildings, improvements, etc., the proprietors of the same
shall be paid the reasonable value thereof by the public.
"Nothing herein contained shall affect the lots which any.
of the parties to this agreement may hold in the towns of
Carrollsburgh or Hamburgh.
"In witness whereof we have hereto set our hands, and
seals, this thirteenth day of March, 1791."
Among the signers of this agreement were Robert Peter,
David Burns, Notley Young and Daniel Carroll.
Subsequently, in pursuance of the agreement, the several
proprietors executed deeds of conveyance to Thomas Beall
and John Mackall Gantt as trustees.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

It will be found convenient, in view of the questions that
arise in the case, to have the deeds of David Burns and
lNotley Young transcribed in full:
"This Indenture, made this twenty-eighth day of June, in
the year of our Lord one thousand seven hundred and ninetyone, between David Burns of the State of Maryland, of the
one part, and Thomas Beall (son of George) and John Mackall Gantt of the State of Maryland, of the other part, Witnesseth: That the said David Burns, for and in colnsideration of
the sum of five shillings to him in hand paid by the said Thomas
Beall and John Mackall Gantt, before the sealing and delivery
of these presents, the receipt whereof he doth hereby acknowledge and thereof doth acquit the said Thomas Beall and John
Mackall Gantt, their executors and adninistrators, and also
for and in consideration of the uses and trusts hereinafter
mentioned to be performed by the said Thomas Beall and
John Mackall Gantt and the survivor of them, and the heirs
of such. survivor, according to the true intent and meaning
.thereof, hath granted, bargained, sold, aliened, released and
confirmed, and by these presents doth grant, bargain, sell,
alien, release and confirm unto the said Thomas Beall and
John Mackall Gantt knd the survivor of them, and the heirs
of such -survivor, all the lands of him the said David Burns,
lying and being within the following limits, boundaries and"
lines, to wit: Beginning on the east side of Rock Creek at a
stone standing in the middle of the road leading from Georgetown to Bladensburgh, thence along the middle of the said
road to a stone standing on the east side of the Reer\y Branch
of Goose Creek,. thence southeasterly making an angle of
sixty-one degrees and twenty minutes, with the meridian to
a stone standing in the road leading from Bladensburgh to the
Eastern Branch Ferry, thence south to a stone eighty poles
north of the east and west line already drawn from the mouth
of Goose Creek to the Eastern Branch, thence east parallel to
the said east and west line to the Eastern Branch, Potomack
'River and Rock Creek, to the beginning, with their appurteiances, except all and every lot and lots of which the said
David' Burns is seized or to which h is entitled lying in

MORRIS v. UNITED STATES.
Statemeaft of the Case.

Carrollsburgh or Hamburgh. To have and to hold the hereby
bargained and sold lands, with their appurtenances, to -the
said Thomas Beall and John Mackall Gantt, and the survivor
of them, and the heirs of such surVivor, forever, to and for
the special trusts following, and no other, that is to say, that
all the said lands'hereby bargained and sold, or such parts
thereof as may be thought necessary or proper to be laid out,
together with other lands within the said limits, for a Federal
City, with such streets, squares, parcels and lots as the President of the United States for the time being shall approve,
and that the said Thomas Beall and John Mackall Gantt, or
the survivor of them, or the heirs of such survivor, shall convey to the Commissioners for the time being appointed by
virtue of an act of Congress, entitled 'An act for establishing
the temporary and permanent seat of the Government of the
United States,' and their successors, for the use of the United
States forever all the said streets and such of the said squares,
parcels and lots, as the President shall deem proper, for the
use of the United States, and that as to the residue of the lots
into which the said lands hereby bargained and sold shall
have been laid off and divided, that a fair and equal division
of them shall be made, and if no other mode of division shall
be agreed on by the said David Burns and the Commissioners
for the time being, then such residue of the said lots shall be
divided, every other lot alternate to-the said David Burns, and
it shall in that eventbe determined by lot wheth'er the said
David Burns shall begin with the lot of the lowest number
laid out on his said lands or the following number, and all
the said lots which may in any manner be divided or assigned
to the said David Burns shall thereupon together with any
part of the said bargained and sold lands, if any which shall
not have been laid out in the said city, be conveyed by the
said Thomas Beall and John Mackall Gantt, or the survivor
of them, or the heirs of such survivorto him, the said David
Burns, his heirs and assigns, and that the said other lots shall
and may be sold at any time or times in such manner and
-on such terms and conditions as the President of the United
States for the time being shall direct, and that the said Thomas,

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

Beall and John Mackall Gantt, or the survivor of them, or the
heirs of such survivor will, on the order and direction of the
President, convey all the said lots so sold and ordered to be
conveyed to the respective purchasers in fee simple, according
to the terms and conditions of such purchasers, and the produce of the sales of the said lots when sold as aforesaid shall, in
the first place, be applied to the payment in money, to the
said David Burns, his executors, administrators or asgigns, for
all the part of the lands hereby bargained and sold, which
shall have been in lots, squares or parcels, and appropriated
as aforesaid, to the use of the United States, at the rate of
twenty-five pounds per acre, not accounting the said streets
,as part thereof, and the said twenty-five pounds per acre being
so paid, or in any other manner satisfied, that the produce of
the same sales or what thereof may remain as aforesaid in
money or securities of any kind shall be paid, assigned, transferred and delivered over to the President for the time being,
as a grant of money, and to be. applied for the purposes and
according to the act of Congress aforesaid, but the said conveyances to the said David Burns, his heirs or assigns, as well
as the conveyances to the purchasers, shall be on and subject
to such terms and cdnditions as shall be thought reasonable
by the President for the time being, for regulating the materials and manner of the buildings and improvements on the
lots generally in the said city, or in particular streets or parts
thereof for common convenience, safety and order; provided
such terms and conditions be declared before the sales of any
of the said lots under the direction of the President and in
trust farther, and on the agreement that he, the said David
'Burns, his heirs and assigns, shall and may continue his possession and occupation of the said lafid hereby bargained and
sold, at his and their will and pleasure until the same shall
be occupied under the said appropriations for the use of the
United States as aforesaid, or by purchasers, and when any
lots or parcels shall be occupied under purchase or appropriations as aforesaid, then, and not till then, shall the said David
.Birns relinquish his occupation thereon. And in trust also
as to the trees, timber and woods on the premises that he,

MORRIS v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

the said David Burns, his heirs or assigns, may freely cut
down, take and use the same as his and their property, except
such of the trees and wood growing as the President or Commissioners aforesaid may judge proper and give notice, shall
be left for ornament, for which the just and reasonable value
shall be paid to the said David Burns, his executors, administrators or assigns, exclusive of the twenty-five pounds per acre
for the land, and in case the arrangements of the streets, lots
and like will conveniently admit of it, he, the said David Burns,
his heirs and assigns, shall, if he so desire it, possess and retain
his buildings and graveyard, if any, on the hereby bargained
and sold lands, paying to the President at the rate of twelve
pounds ten shillings per acre, of the lands so retained, because
of such buildings and graveyards to be applied as-aforesaid,
and the same shall be thereupon conveyed to the said David
Burns, his heirs and assigns, with the lots, but if the arrangements of the streets, lots and the like will not conveniently
admit of such retention and it shall become necessary to remove such buildings then the said David.Burns, his executors,
administrators or assigns, shall be paid the reasonable value
thereof in the same manner as squares or other ground appropriated for the use of the United .States are to be paid for.
And because it may so happen that by deaths and removals
af the said Thomas Beall and John Mackall Gantt, and from
other causes difficulties may occur in fully perfecting the said
trust by executing all the said conveyances, if no eventual
provision is made, it is therefore agreed and covenanted, between all the said parties, that the said Thomas Beall and
John M. Gantt, or either of them, or the heirs of either of
them, lawfully may, and they at any time, at the request of
the President of the United States for the time being, will
convey all or any of the said lands hereby bargained and sold
which shall not then have been conveyed in execution of the
trusts aforesaid to such person or persons as he shall appoint
in fee simple, subject to the trusts then remaining to be executed, and to the end that the same may be perfected. And
it is further agreed and granted between .all the said parties;
and each of the said parties doth for himself respectively and

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

for his heirs covenant and grant to and with the others of
them that he and they shall, and will, if required by the President of the United States for the time-being, join in and execute any further deed or deeds for carrying into effect the
trusts, purposes and trhe intent of this present deed.
"In witness whereof,- the parties to these presents have
hereunto interchangeably set their hands and affixed their
seals the day and year first above written."
The deed of Notley Young is in substantially similar terms.
On December 195 1791, an additional act was passed by
Maryland, ratifying the previous act of cession, and reciting
that Notley Young, Daniel Carroll of Duddington, and many
other proprietors of the part of the land thereinafter mentioned to have been laid out in a city, had come into an agreement, and had conveyed their lands in trust to Thomas Beall
and John Mackall Gantt, whereby they subjected. their lands
to be laid out as a city, given up part to the United States, and
subjected other parts to be sold to raise money, as a donation,
to be employed according to the act of Congress for establishing the temporary and permanent seat of the Government of
the United States, under and upon' the terms and -conditions
contained in each of said deeds; that the President had thereafter directed to be laid out upon such lands a city, which has
been called the city of Washington, comprehending all the
lands beginning -on the east side of Rock Creek, at a stone
standing in the middle of the road leading from Georgetown
to Bladensburgh, thence along the middle of said road to a
stone- standing on the east side of the Reedy Branch of Goose
Creek, thence southeasterly, making an angle of sixty-on e
degrees and twenty minutes with the meridian, to a stone
standing in the road leading from Bladensburgh to the Eastern Branch Ferry, thence south to a stone eighty poles north
of the east and west, line already drawn from the mouth of
Goose Creek to the Eastern Branch, then east parallel to the
said east and west line to the Eastern Branch, then with the
waters of the Eastern Branch, Potomac River and Rock
.Creek, to the beginning.
By section 2, that portion of the "territory called Colum-

MORRIS v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

bia," lying within the limits of the State, there was ceded and
relinquished'to the Congress and the Government "full and
absolute right and exclusive jurisdiction, as well of soil as of
persons residing or to reside thereon," but providing that
nothing therein contained should be so construed to vest in
the United States any right of property in the soil as to affect
the rights of individuals therein otherwise than- the same
shall or may be transferred by such individuals to the United
States, and that the jurisdiction of the laws of the State over
the persons and property of individuals residing within the
limits of the cession should not cease or determine until Congress should by law provide for the government thereof.
By section 3, it was provided that "all persons to whom
allotments and assignments of land shall be made by the
Commissioners, or any two of them, on consent and agreement, or, pursuant to this act, without consent, shall hold the
same in their former estate and interest, and as if the same
had been actually reconveyed pursuant to the said deed in
trust."
By section 5, it was enacted that "all the lots and parcels
which have been or shall be sold to raise money shall remain
and be to the purchasers, according to the terms and conditions of their respective purchase;" and that a purchase, when
made from one claiming title and, for-live years previous to
the statute, in possession, either actually or constructively,
through those under whom he claimed, was rendered unassailable, and that the true owner must pursue the purchase money
in the hands of the vendor.
Section 7 enacted that the Commissioners might appoint a
clerk of recording deeds of land within the said territory,
who shall provide a proper book for the purpose, and therein
record, in a strong legible hand, all deeds, duly acknowledged,
of lands in the said territory delivered to him to be recorded,
and in the same book make due entries of all divisions and
allotments of lands and lots made by the Commissioners in
pursuance of this act, and certificates granted by them of sales,
and the purchase money having been paid, with a proper alphabet in the same book of the deeds and entries aforesaid.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

By section 9, it was enacted that the Commissioners "shall
direct an entry to be made in the said record book of every
allotment and assignment to the respective proprietors in pursuance of this act."
By section 12, it was declared that until the assumption of
legislative power by Congress the Commissioners should have
power to "lic e nse the building of wharves in the waters of
the Potowmack and the Eastern Branch, adjoining the said
city, of the materials, in the- manner and of the extent they
may judge durable, convenient and agreeing with general
order; but no license shall be granted to one to build a wharf
before the land of another, nor shall any wharf be built in the
said waters without a license as aforesaid; and if any wharf
shall be built without such license, or different therefrom, the
same is hereby declared a common nuisance; they may also,
from time to time, make regulations for the discharge and laying of ballast from ships or vessels lying in the Potowmack
River above the lower line of the said territory and Georgetown, and from ships and vessels lying in the Eastern Branch."
2 Kilty Laws of Maryland, c. 45.
While the transactions were taking place between the Commissioners. and the several proprietors, which culminated in
the deeds of conveyance by the latter to Beall and Gantt,
negotiations were going on between the President and the
Commissioners on the one hand, and the owners of the lots in
Carrollsburgh and Hamburgh on the other. Without following these negotiations in detail, it seems sufficient to say that
an agreement, substantially similar to the one of March 13,
1791, was reached with those lot owners, and that the territory of those adjacent villages was embraced in the President's proclamation of March 30, 1791.
By a letter, contained in the record, dated March 31, 1791,
from President Washington to Thomas Jefferson, Secretary
of State, it appears that Major L'Enfant was, after the aforesaid agreements had been reached, directed by the President to survey and lay off the city; and the President further
stated in that letter that "the enlarged plan of this agreement having done away the necessity, and indeed postponed

MORRIS v. UIV TED STATES.

209"

Statement of the Case.
the propriety, of designating the particular spot ona which the.
public buildings should be placed until an accurate survey
and subdivision of the whole ground is made," he has left out
of te proclamation the paragraph designating the sites for
the public buildings.
On August 19, 1791, Major L'Enfant presented to the
President his plan of the city, accompanied with a letter,.
describing the plan as still incomplete, and making severalsuggestions, particularly one to the effect that sales should
not be made till the completion of his scheme for the city and
the public buildings should be completed.
On Decemiber 13, 1791, the President sent to Congress a
communication in the following terms: "I place before you
the plan of the city that has been laid out within the district
of ten miles square, which was fixed upon for the permanent
seat of the Government of the United States."
Afterwards, on February 20, 1797, on the occasion of a
complaint by Mr. Davidson of certain deviations from this plan
by Major Ellicott, who succeeded Major L'Enfant as surveyor,
President Washington,-in a letter to the Commissioners, said:
"Mr. Davidson is mistaken if he supposed that the transmission of Major L'Enfant's plan of the city to Congress was the,
completion thereof, So far from it, it will appear by the
message which accompanied the same that it was given as,
matter of information to show what state the business was in,
and the return of it requested. That neither house of Congress passed any act consequent thereupon. That it lemained,
as before, under the control of the executive. That afterwards several errors were discovered and corrected, many
alterations made, and the appropriations, except as to the
Capitol and the President's Rouse, struck out under that authority, before it was sent to the engraver, intending that.
work and the promulgation thereof were to give it the final
and regulating stamp."
Subsequently- dissensions arose between. the Commissioners
and L'Enfant, which resulted in the dismissal of the latter,
and"the employment of Andrew Ellicbtt, who, on Febr -ary 23,
1792, completed a plan of the city and delivered it to theVOL. CLXxI[-14

OCTOBER TERMr, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

-President, who, in a letter to the Commissioners dated March
6, 1792, said: "It is impossible to say with any certainty when
the plan of the city will be engraved. Upon Major L'Enfant's
arrival here, in the latter part of December, I pressed him in the
most earnest manner to get the plan ready for engraving as
soon as possible. Finding there was no prospect of obtaining it through him, at least not in any definite time, the
matter was put into M r. Ellicott's hands to prepare about
three weeks ago. He has prepared it, but the engravers who
have undertaken to execute it say it cannot certainly be done
in less than two - perhaps not under three months. There
shall, however, be every effort made to have the thing effected
with all possible dispatch."
This so-called Ellicott's plan was engraved at Boston and
at Philadelphia- the engraved plans differing in that the
latter did and the former did not show the soundings of the
creek and river.
Subsequently, James R. Dermott.was employed to make
a plan -f the city, which he completed prior to March 2, 1797,
and. on that day President Washington, by his act, requested
and directed Thomas Beall and John M. Gantt, the trustees,
to convey all the streets in the city of Washington, as they
were laid and delineated in the plan of the city thereto attached, and also the several squares, parcels and lots of
ground appropriated to the use of the United States, and
particularly described, to Gustavus Scott, William Thornton
and Alexander White, commissioners appointed under the act
of Congress.
On July 23, 1798, President Adams, in an instrument alleging that the plan referred to in said request and instruction by
President Washington as having been annexed thereto had
been omitted, declared that he had caused said plan to be annexed to said writing, and requested the said Thomas Beall
and John M. Gantt to convey the streets, squares, parcels and
lots of ground, described in the act of the late President of
the United States as public appropriations, to the said Scott,
Thornton and White, and their successors in office as commissioners, to the use of the United States forever,

MORRIS v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

Lots and parcels of ground were sold to private purchasers,
from time to time, under all three of these plans, and controversies have arisen as to the comparative authenticity of these
plans. The particulars wherein those plans differ are stated
and considered in the opinion of the court.
On February 27, 1801, Congress passed the act concerning
the District of Columbia and its government, and providing
"That the laws of the State of Maryland as they now exist
shall be continued in force in that part of the said district
which was ceded by that State."
By the act of August 2, 1882, c. 375, 22 Stat. 198, Congress
made an appropriation for "improving the Potomac River in
the vicinity of Washington with reference to the improvement
of navigation, the establishment of harbor lines, and the raising of the flats, under the direction of the Secretary of War,
and in accordance with the plan and report made in compliance with the River and Harbor Act approved March 3,
1881, and the reports of the Board of Engineers made in compliance with the-resolution of the Senate of December 13,
1881."
This act made it the duty of the Attorney General to examine all claims of title to the premises to be improved under
this appropriation, and to institute a suit or suits at law or in
equity "against any and all claimants of title under any
patent which, in his opinion, was by mistake or was improperly
or illegally issued for any part of the marshes or flats within
the limits of the proposed improvement."
By subsequent acts of Congress further appropriations were
made for continuing the improvement, amounting to between
two and three million of dollars, and in the prosecution of the
work channels have been dredged, sea walls constructed, and a
large area reclaimed from the river.
It appearing that claims to the lands embraced within the
limits of the improvement, or to parts of them, were made by
the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company, and by several
other corporations and persons, besides those claiming under
the patent referred to in the act of 1882, Congress passed the
act approved August 5, 1886, c. 930, 24 Stat. 335, entitled "An

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

act to provide for protecting the interests of the United States
in the Potomac River Flats, in the District of Columbia."
By the first section of this act it was made the duty of the
Attdrney General "to institute, as soon as may be, in the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, a suit against all
persons and corporations who may have or pretend to have
any right, title, claim or interest in any part of the land or
water in the District of Columbia within the limits of the city
of Washington, or exterior to said limits and in front thereof
toward the channel of the Potomac River, and composing any
part of. the land and water affected, by the improvements of
the Potomac River or its flats in charge of the.Secretary of
War, for the purpose of establishing and making clear the
right of the United States thereto."
By the second section, it was provided that the suit "shall
be in the nature of a bill in equity, and there shall be made
parties defendant thereto all persons and corporations known
to set up or assert any claim or right to or in the land or
water in said first section mentioned, and against all other
persons and corporations who may claim to have any such
-right, title or interest. On the filing of said bill process shall
issue and be served, according to the ordinary course of said
court, upon all persons and corporations within the jurisdictions of said court; and public notice shall be given, by advertisement in two newspapers published in the city of Washington
for three weeks successively of the pendency of said suit, and
citing all persons and corporations interested in the subjectmatter of said suit, or in the land or water in this act mentioned, to appear, at a day named in such notice, in said court,
to answer, the said bill, and set forth and maintain any right,
title, interest or claim that any person or corporation may
have in the premises; and the court may order such further
notice as it shall think fit to any party in interest."
The third section gives the court "full power and jurisdiction by its decree to determine every question of right, title,
interest or claim arising in the premises, and to vacate, annul,
set aside or confirm any claim of any character arising'or set
forth in the premises; and its decree shall bo final and con-

MORRIS v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

clusive upon all persons and corporations parties to the suit,
and who shall fail, after public notice as hereinbefore in this
act provided, to appear in said court and litigate his, her or its
claim, and they shall be deemed forever barred from setting
up or maintaining any right, title, interest or claim in the
premises."
As to all the defendants, except those claiming under a certain patent issued through the General Land Office to John L.
Kidwell in 1869, the bill states that "the complainant is not
sufficiently informed as to the nature and extent of said claims,
or any of them, to set them out with particularity; and the
complainant leaves them to present their claims in their answer hereto as they may be advised."
As to the claims under said patent, the bill avers the patent
to be void upon several grounds, and the claims, therefore,
unfounded, and prays that the patent may be cancelled and
annulled.
The bill further states, that "the complainant disclaims in
this suit seeking to establish its title to any of the wharves
included in the area described in paragraph 3 of this bill, and
claims title only to the land and water upon and in which
said wharves are built, leaving the question of the ownership
of the wharves proper, where that is a matter of dispute, to be
decided in any other appropriate proceeding." '
The limits of the "land and water" affected by the improvements are specifically set forth in the third paragraph
of the bill of complaint. The beginning of said limits is at
the southeast corner of square south of square 12, and they
proceed thence along the east line of said square -and the west
line of Twenty-sixth street to the line of the Chesapeake and
Ohio Canal bank; thence, by several courses and distances,
"along the canal bank, parallel to and about ten feet southwest of a row of sycamore trees," and following the shore
line of the river to the southwest line of Virginia avenue between Seventeenth and Eighteenth streets west; thence southeasterly along the southeast line of said avenue to the east
line of Seventeenth street west, being the west line of Reservation 3 (known as the Monument Grounds); thence to the crest

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

of the bank forming the southwestern boundary of Reservation 3, and along said crest to the southwestern corner of
square 233, at the intersection of Fifteenth street west and
Water street; thence across Fourteenth street west and Maryland avenue to a point in the middle of E street south; thence
to the nearest point in the shore line of the river; thence with
said shore line to Greenleaf's Point at the southern extremity
of the Arsenal Grounds; the line proceeds thence along the
east side of the Washington channel of the Potomac River
and across the mouth of the Eastern Branch in a southerly
direction to the-wharf at Giesboro Yoint; thence across the
main or Virginia channel of the Potomac River in a westerly
direction to the west side of that channel; thence along the
west side of that channel in a northwesterly direction and
following the meanders of the channel to a point opposite the
wharf known as Easby's wharf; thence across the channel to
the southwest corner of said wharf, and thence along the
south side of said wharf to the southwest line of square
south of square 12; and thence along said southwest line to
the place of beginning at the southeast corner of said square.
The area of actual reclamation of land from the bed of the
river within said limits under the above-mentioned legislation
amounted to nearly seven hundred and fifty acres.
Claims and pretensions of various kinds to the land and
water within said limits, or to portions of the same, are set up
in the answers of the parties who were originally made defendants to the bill and of those who have appeared in response to
the public notice of the pendency of the suit given in accordance with the terms of the act.
These claims, with respect to the nature of the several issues
involved in them, admit of convenient division into classes, viz.:
I. The claim made by the heirs of James (M.) Marshall and
those of his brother, Chief Justice John Marshall, to the ownership of the entire bed of the river from shore to shore (including therein the reclaimed land) under grants from the crown of
England to Lord Culpeper and others, for what is known as
the Northern Neck of Virginia, and the deed from Denny
Martin Fairfax, as said Culpeper's successor in title,. to said

AlORPLIS v. UNTITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

James (M.) Marshall; and the claim made by the said heirs of
James (M.) Marshall to such ownership under the patent to
Lord Baltimore for the Province of Maryland, and the deed to
them from Frederick Paul Harford as Lord Baltimore's successor in title.
II. The claims of ownership made to part of the reclaimed
land by certain defendants, who assert title under a patent
issued by the United States through the General Land Office
to John L. Kidwell in the year 1869 for forty-seven and
seventy-one one-hundreths (47-) acres and to one hundred
and fifty (150) acres of alleged accretion thereto; and to
another tract, the area of which is not stated, adjoining the
Long Bridge and extending therefrom southwardly between
the Washington and Georgetown channels,. of which latter
tract they claim to be the equitable owners under an application for a patent made by said Kidwell in 1871. III. The claims made by the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal
Company and its lessee, Henry H. Dodge, to riparian rights
from Easby's Point to Seventeenth street west.
IV. The claims to riparian rights, right of access to the
channel of the river, and to accretions, natural and artificial,
made by the owners of lots in squares along the river ivest of
Seventeenth street west, namely, squares 148, 129, 89, 63, 22,
and square south of square 12.
V. The claim made by certain of the descendants of Robert
Peter, an original proprietor of lands in the city of Washington, to certain land near the public reservation known as the
Observatory Grounds.
VI. The claims to riparian privileges and wharfing rights
made by owners of lots in squares beginning with square 233
and extending to the line of the Arsenal Grounds.
VH. The claims made by certain persons occupying
wharves below the Long Bridge.
The main determination by the court "of rights drawn in
question" in the suit was by a decree passed October 17, 1895.
The decree adjudicated nearly all the points in controversy
in favor of the United States.
Certain lots and parts of lots in squares 63, 89, 129 and

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

148, north of their boundaries on Water street and A street,
which were subject to the ebb and flow of the tide, were
included in the work of reclamation, and as to them the
decree held the owners to be entitled to compensation for the
taking and inclusion of the same in the improvements.
By the first paragraph of the decree, the claims under class
2, that is, those set forth in the answers of certain defendants
founded upon a patent issued to John L. Kidwell in 1869, for
a tract of forty-seven and seventy-one one-hundredths (4 7 -i7UV)
acres in the Potomac River, and alleged accretion thereto,
and also to a tract adjoining, the Long Bridge, founded upon
an application for a patent therefor made by said Kidwell in
1871, are held and declared to be "invalid, void and of none
effect;" and the said patent i.s "vacated, annulled and set
aside."
.By the second paragraph, "the claims of each and all of
the other parties defendants, set forth in their respective
answers, to any rights, titles and interests, riparian or otherwise, in the said lands or water," are held and declared "to
be invalid, void and of none effect," except as to the parties
owning said lots and, parts of lots in the squares last
mentioned.
By the third paragraph, it is held and declared "that there
does not exist (except as aforesaid) any right, title or interest
in any-person or corporation, being a party to this cause, to
or in any part of the said land or water," and "that the right
and title of the said United States (except as aforesaid) to all
the land and water included within the limits of the said
improvements of the Potomac River and its flats, as the said
limits are described in the said bill of complaint," is absolute
"as against all the defendants to this cause, and as against
all persons whomsoever claiming any rights, titles or interests
therein who have failed to appear and set forth and maintain
their said rights, titles or interests as required by said act of
Congress.":
By the fourth paragraph, it is held that the defendants who
are owners of the lots or parts of lots in squares 63, 89, 129
and 148, "which are included between the north line or

MORRIS v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

lines of the said improvements of the Potomac River and its
fiats, and the north line or lines of Water street and A street,
are entitled to be indemnified for whatever impairment or
injury may have been caused to their respective rights, titles!
or interests in said lots or parts of lots by the taking of the
same by the United States; the value of such rights, titles,
interests or claims to be ascertained by this court, exclusive
of the value of any improvement of the said lots or parts of
lots made by or under the authority of the said United States."
By the fifth and last paragraph of the decree, the taking
of further testimony was authorized, on behalf of the owners
and on behalf of the United States, as to the respectiye areas
of the said lots and parts of lots, and of and concerning the
true ownership and value .of the said lots and parts of lots.
Such testimony as to ownership, areas and values having
been taken and returned, the court upon consideration thereof,
and on March 2, 1896, passed a further and supplementary
decree, adjudging the values of the said lots and parts of lots
so taken to be ten cents per square foot, and payment was
directed to be made to sundry persons whom the court found
-tobe the owners of certain of the parcels; the ownership of
the remaining parcels not being, in the opinion of the court,
sufficiently established, the taking of further testimony with
respect thereto was ordered. The total amount of said values
found by the court is $26,68-1.09.
The court having made a report of its action in the premises
to Congressj agreeably to the requirements of the act of
August 5, 1886, an appropriation was made for the payment
of the sums so found to be due to the owners of the said lots
and parts of lots in said squares; and with two exceptions,
namely, Richard J. BeaU and the trustees of the estate of
William Easby, deceased, the several owners of the property
applied, under said appropriation act, to the court for the
payment to them of the respective sums found to be due to
them, and the fund has been very largely disbursed under
orders of the court passed on said applications.
From the main decree of October 17, 1895, appeals were
taken as follows:

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the ,Case.

1. By all the defendants embraced in class one (1), namely,
the heirs of James (M.) Marshall and the heirs of his brother,
Chief Justice Marshall.
2. By all the defendants embraced in class two (2), claiming
under the Kidwell patent, etc., namely, M artin F. Morris,
Henry Wells, Edward H. Wilson, Catherine A. Kidwell,
Emma McCahill, John W. Kidwell, Francis L. Kidwell, Ida
Hyde and George A-yde.
3. By one of the defendants embraced in class three (3),
namely, the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company and its
trustees.
4. By two of the defendants embraced in class four (4),
namely, the trustees of the estate of William Easby, deceased,
and Richard J. Beall.
5. By all of the defendants embraced in class five (5),
namely, certain descendants of Robert Peter.
6. By certain of the defendants embraced in class six (6),
namely: (a) Charles Chauncy Savage et al.; (b) The Washington Steamboat Company, limited; (c) Avarilla Lambert et
al.; (d) William W. Rapley; (e) Mary A. S. Kimmell Gray;
(f) James F. Barber et al.; (g) William G. Johnson, assignee
of the American Ice Company; (h) Thomas W. Riley; (i)
Edward M. Willis; (j) Annie E. Johnson, widow, sole executrix and devisee of E.Kurtz Johnson, deceased, et al. ; (k)
Elizabeth K. Riley, in her own right and as trustee and executrix of William R. Riley, deceased; () The Great Falls
Ice Company; (m)Daniel S. Evans ; (n) Margaret J. Stone;
and (o) Charles B. Church et al.
7. By certain of the defendants embraced in class seven (7),
namely, Annie E. Johnson, widow, sole executrix and devisee
of E. (urtz Johnson, deceased, et al.; Charles B. Church et
al.; Daniel S. Evans, and William W. Rapley.
The following reduced copies of the plans will assist in
applying the reasoning of the opinion:
No. 1 is the city before the conveyances.
No. 2 is the Ellicott plan.
No. 3 is a portion of the Dermott map, sufficient to indicate
the river front in part.

MORRIS v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

No. 1.

219

220

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

c

L

i, A

IS"
-LM IN

;I

Jo]

40-

4Lt6.ci

'.. v

MORJ1S v. UNITED' STATES.
Statement of the Case.

[flog[!]~
N

B~

0

IK7,
P-I P-1Fi Fh

EDIi-D-R

M.

7

E

Iw

O T-OBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

Mr. A. Leo Enott for the heirs of James Markham Marshall.
.tXr. John Howard for the heirs of John Marshall.
James V. Brooke was on his brief.

Mr.

-Mr. George E. Hamilton and Mr. lathaniel Wilson for
claimants under the Kidwell patent.
Xfr. Hfugh L. Bond, 7'., and .r. John . Cowen for the
Chesapeake & Ohio Canal Company, and for Joseph Bryan,
John X. Cowen and Hugh L. Bond, Jr., Trustees. .21. Charles
F. T. Beale was on their brief.
ffr. H enry Randall Webb for the Trustees of the estate of
William Easby. _kr. John Sidney Webb was on his brief.
-Mr.J. Holdsworth Gordon for William F. Dunlap and the
heirs of George Peter. .1'. Enoch Totten and .Xr. Arthur
Peter were on his brief.
Mr. John Selden for the Washington Steamboat Company
and the heirs of Moncure Robinson.
.Mr.William G. Johnson, Wr. Tallmadge A. Lambert and
Xr. Calderon Carlisle for Johnson, assignee of the American
Ice Company and others claiming under Kotley Young.
Xr. Holries Conrad and _Xr. Eugh T. Taggart for the
United States.
Mr. Enoch Totten and Mr. Edward A. Newman filed *a
brief for W. W. Rapley.
.. r. J. f

Wilson filed a brief for Richard J. BeaU.

Mr. William F. Afattingly filed a brief for Daniel S. Evans.
Mr. T. A. Lambert filed a brief for W. M. Easby-Smith.
MR.

JUsTIOE

SmuAs delivered the opinion of the court.

1. The first question fdr our determination arises out of
the faims of the heirs of James If. M4rshall and the heirs

MORRIS v. UlNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

of John Marshall to the ownership of the entire bed of the
Potomac River, from shore to shore, including therein. the
reclaimed lands.
Their claims are based upon two distinct lines or sources
of title, inconsistent with each other: One originating in the
charter granted by Charles I, King of England, on June 20,
1632, to Cecilius Calvert, second Baron of Baltimore and
first Lord*Proprietary of the Province of Maryland; the other,
in the charter granted by James H, King of England, on
September 27, 1688, to Thomas, Lord Culpeper.
We do not think it necessary to enter at length or minutely
into the history of the long dispute between Virginia and
Maryland in respect to the boundary line. It is sufficient,
for our present purpose, to say that the grant- to Lord Baltimore, in unmistakable terms, included the Potomac River and
the premises in question in this suit, and declared that thereafter the Province of Maryland and its freeholders and inhabitants should not be held or reputed a member or part
of the land of Virginia, "from which we do separate both the
said province and inhabitants thereof."
On September, 1688, King James II, by his royal pateht
of that date, granted to Thomas, Lord -Culpeper, what was
called the Northern Neck of Virginia, and described as
follows:
"All that entire tract, territory or parcel of land situate, lying
and being in Virginia in America, and bounded by and within
the first heads or springs of the rivers of Tappahannock al' Rapahannock and Quiriough al' Patawonuck Rivers, the courses of
said rivers from their said first heads or springs as they are commonly called and known by the .inhabitants and descriptions
of those parts and the Bay of Chesapeake, together with the
said rivers themselves and all the-islands within the outermost banks thereof, and the soil of all and singular the premises, and all lands, woods, underwoods, timber and trees,
wayes, mountains, swamps, marshes, waters, rivers, ponds,
pools, lakes, water courses, fishings, streams, havens, ports,
harbours, bays, creeks, ferries, with all-sorts of fish, as well
whales, sturgeons and other royal fish.

.

.

.

To have,

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

hold and.enjoy all the said entire tract, territory or portion
of land,, and every part and parcel thereof,

.

.

.

to the

said Thomas, Lord Culpeper, his heirs and assigns forever."
Owing to the conflicting descriptions, as respected the
Potomac River, contained in these royal grants, a controversy
early arose between Virginia and Maryland. A compact
was entered into in 1785 between the two States, whereby,
through commissioners, a jurisdictional line, for the purpose
of enforcing the criminal laws and regulating the rights of
navigation in the Potomac River, was agreed upon.
Finally, the controversy as to the true boundary still continuing, in 1874 the legislatures of the two States agreed in
the selection of arbitrators, by whose award, dated January 16, A.D. 1877, the jurisdictional line and boundary were
declared to be the low-water mark on the Virginia shore.
This award was accepted by the two States, and, by an act
approved March 3, 1879, c. 196, 20 Stat. 481, Congress gave
its consent to the agreement and award; but provided that
nothing therein contained should be construed to impair or
in any manner affect any right of jurisdiction of the United
States in and over the islands and waters which formed the
subject of the said agreement or award.
It was a mutual feature of the legislation by which this
conclusion was reached that the landholders on either side
of the line of boundary between the said States, as the same
might be ascertained and determined by the said award,
should in no manner be disturbed thereby in their title to
and possession of their lands, as they should be at the date
of said award, but should in any case hold and possess the
same as if their said titles and possession had been derived
under the laws of the State in which by the fixing of the
said line by the terms of said award they should be ascertained to be. (Act of Virginia, February 10, 1876, chap. 48;
act of Maryland, April 3, 1876, chap. 198.)
Whether the result of this arbitration and award is to be
regarded as establishing what the true boundary always was,
and that therefore the grant to Thomas, Lord Culpeper,
never of right included the Potomac River, or as establishing

MORRIS v. UNITED STATES.
.Opinion of the Court.

a compromise line, effective only from the date of the award,
we need not determine. For, even if the latter be the correct
view, we agree with the conclusion of the court below, that,
upon all the evidence, the charter granted to Lord Baltimore,
by Charles I, in 1632, of the territory known as the Province
of Maryland, embraced the Potomac River and the soil under
it, and the islands therein, to high-water mark on the southern
or Virginia shore; that the territory and title thus granted to
Lord Baltimore, his heirs and assigns, were never divested by
any valid proceedings prior to the Revolution; nor was such
grant affected by the subsequent grant to Lord Culpeper.
The record discloses no evidence that, at any time, any substantial claim was ever made by Lord Fairfax, heir at law of
Lord Culpeper, or by his grantees, to property rights in the
Potomac River or in the soil thereunder, nor does it appear
that Virginia ever exercised the power to grant ownership in
the islands or soil under the river to private persons. Her
claim seems to have been that of political jurisdiction.
Without pursuing further this branch of the subject, and
assuming that the heirs of John Marshall have become lawfully
vested with the Fairfax title, we are of opinion that they have
failed to show any right or title to the lands and premises involved in this litigation, and that the decree of the court below,
so far as it affects them, is free from error.
There remains to consider the claim of the heirs of James
M. Marshall as alleged successors to the title of Lord Baltimore
to the river Potomac and the soil thereunder, as part and parcel'of the grant to him by the patent of Charles I, in 1632.
We adopt, as sufficient for our purposes, the statement of
that claim made in the printed brief filed on behalf of the heirs
of James M. Marshall:
1st. That Charles I, in his charter of June, 1632, conveyed
to the Lord Proprietary of Maryland, intei- alia, full title to
the lands under the navigable waters and rivers sub'jeet to tidal
overflow, within the limits of that charter, with the right to
grant such lands to others.
2d. That the Kingin said charter granted to the Proprietary
of the Province of Maryland the -whole bed and soil of the
VOL. ClXxI-15

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

Potomac River, from bank to bank, and from its source to its
mouth, the locus in quo of the lands here in controversy.
3d.. That the said Proprietary held such lands, as he held
his other lands, in absolute ownership and propriety, but subject to the public servitudes in and of the waters over them,
so long as those waters covered the lands.
4th. But that when the waters ceased to be or flow over
them, these lands were relieved of those servitudes, and his
right of, seizin or possession attached and perfected his title,
and of this his heirs or assigns could take the benefit and
advantage, if holding title at that time.
5th. That by the action of the Government of the United
States, in reclaiming these lands for public purposes, and converting them into firm and fast lands, and passing the act of
August 5, 1886, and bringing suit against these appellants and
others, the first opportunity was given to these appellants to
make or assert their title.
6th. That title was legally derived to them by the devises
and deeds set out in the record.
Briefly expressed, the appellants' contention is that the property in the soil under the river Potomac passed to Lord Baltimore and his grantees, and that it passed, not as one of the
regalia of the Crown, or as a concomitant of government,
but as an absolute proprietary interest, subject to every lawful public use, but not the less, on that account, a hereditament, and the subject of lawful ownership, and of the right
of full and unqualified possession when that public use shall
have ceased.
We need not enter into a discussion of this proposition, because the doctrine on which it is based has been heretofore
adversely decided by this court in several leading and well-considered cases. -Martinv. WZaddell, 16 Pet. 367; Den v. Jersey
Company, 15 How. 426; Shively v. Bow~hy, 152 U. S. 1.
The conclusions reached were that the various charters
granted by different monarchs of the Stuart dynasty for large
tracts of territory on the Atlantic coast conveyed to the grantees both the territory described and the powers of government, including the property and the dominion of lauds under

MORRIS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

tide waters; that by those charters the dominion and propriety in the navigable waters, and in the soils under them,
passed as part of the prerogative rights annexed to the political powers conferred on the patentee, and in his hands were
intended to be a trust for the common use of the new community about to be established, as a public trust for the
benefit of the whole community, to be freely used by all
for navigation and fishery, and not as private property, to
be parcelled out and sold for his own individual emolument;
that, upon the American Revolution, all the rights of the
Crown and of Parliament vested in the several States, subject to the rights surrendered to the iNational Government by
the Constitution of the United States; that when the Revolution took place, the people of each State became themselves
sovereign, and in that character hold the absolute right to all
their navigable waters, and the soils under them, for their own
common use, subject only to the rights since surrendered by
the Constitution to the General Government.
If these principles are applicable to the present case, it
follows that, upon the Revolution, the State of Maryland
became possessed of the navigable waters of the State, including the Potomac River, and of the soils thereunder, for
the common use and benefit of its inhabitants; and that,
by the act of cession, that portion of the Potomac River,
with the subjacent soil which was appurtenant to and part
of the territory granted, became vested in the United States.
We do not understand the learned counsel for the appellees
to controvert the principles established by the cited cases as applicable to the royal grants and territories considered therein.
But their contention is that a different doctrine has prevailed
in the courts of the State of Maryland, to the effect that lands
beneath the tide waters of the Potomac were grantable in
fee to private persons, subject only to the public servitudes,
and that when, as in the present case, by the action of the
Government, these lands have ceased to be submerged, the
owner of the title, however long that title has been in abeyance, becomes entitled to possession and to compensation if
the land be taken for public purposes.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

The soundness of this contention depends upon two propositions: First, that the Federal decisions cited do not establish
general principles applicable to each and all of the royal charters to the founders of the Atlantic colonies, but are restricted
in their scope to the particular grant in question in those cases;
and, second, that the law of Maryland, if the sole rule of decision, is to the effect claimed.
In the argument in Alrtin v. Waddell, the decision of the
Supreme Court of New Jersey, in the case of Arnold v. Xundy,
1 Halsted, 1, in which that court had laid down the rule as contended for by the appellants, was cited as conclusive, and as
establishing a rule of property binding on the Federal courts.
In respect to this contention Mr. Chief Justice Taney said:
"The effect of this decision by the state court has been a
good deal discussed at the bar. It is insisted by the plaintiffs
in error that, as the matter in dispute is local in its character,
and the controversy concerns only fixed property, within the
limits of New Jersey, the decision of her tribunals ought to
settle the construction of the charter; and that the courts of
the United States are bound to follow it. It may, however,
be doubted, whether this case falls within the rule, in relation
to the judgments of state courts when expounding their own
constitution and laws. The question here depends, not upon
the meaning of instruments framed by the people of New
Jersey, or by their authorily, but upon charters granted by
the British crown, under which certain rights are claimed
by the State, on the one hand, and by private individuals
on the other. And if this court had been of opinion that
upon the face of these letters patent the question was clearly
against the State, and that the proprietors had been deprived
of their just rights by the erroneous judgment of the state
court, it would perhaps be difficult to maintain that this
decision of itself bound the conscience of this court. .
Independently, however, of this decision of the Supreme
,Court of New Jersey, we are'of opinion that the proprietors
are not entitled to the rghts in question."
The subject is barely adverted to in 8hively v. Bowlby,
where, referring to the. case of Martin v. Waddel, it was

MORRIS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

said by Mr. Justice Gray: "This court, following, though
not resting wholly upon, the decision of the Supreme Court
of New Jersey in A'nold v. .fundy, 1 Halsted, 1, gave judgment for the defendants." Whether, in the controversy between the United States, in the capacity of grantees of the
State of Maryland, and the heirs of James M. Marshall, as
successors to the property title of Lord Baltimore, involving
a construction of the grant of Charles I, the final decision
belongs to the Federal or to the state court, we do not find
it necessary to decide. For, in our opinion, there is no conflict between the views announced by this court in the cases
cited, and those that prevailed in Maryland, as they appear
in the public conduct, and in cases decided prior to and about
the time of the act of cession.
It does not appear that, in the administration of his affairs
as land proprietor, Lord Baltimore, or his successors, ever
made a sale, or executed a patent which, upon its face and in
terms, granted the bed or shores of any tide water in the
province, or ever claimed the right to do so.
The argument to the contrary, as respects the decisions of
the courts of Maryland, depends on the case of Bpowne v. Knnedy, 5 H. & J. 195, decided in 1821, and following cases.
The legal import of that case, and the effect to which it is
entitled in the present case, we shall consider in a subsequent
part of this opinion.
The case of Fairfa8 Devisee v. flunter'8 Zessee, 7 Cranch,
603, is authority for the propositions that Lord Fairfax's title
to the waste and unappropriated lands, which he devised to
Denny Fairfax, was that of an absolute -property in the soil
in controversy in that case, that the acts of ownership shown
to have been exercised by him over the whole waste and
unappropriated lands, vested in him a complete seizin and
possession thereof; and that, even if there had been no acts
of ownership proved, as there was no adverse possession, and
the land was waste and unappropriated, the legal seizin must
be considered as passing with the title. But neither Maryland nor any grantee of Maryland was a party to that suit.
Nor, even as between the parties , was any actual question

OCTOBER TERM, 1898. 
Opinion of the Court.

made or evidence offered as to the boundary between Maryland and Virginia. The questions adjudicated were, what
was the nature, not the extent of territory involved, of Lord
Fairfax's title, and what was the character of the title which
Denny Fairfax took by the will of Lord Fairfax, he being, at
the time of Lord Fairfax's death in 1781, an alien enemy.
Therefore the questions now before us are not affected by
that case. :Nor do we think it necessary, in view of the conclusion we have reached on other grounds, to consider the
legal effect and import of an alleged compromise between the
State of Virginia and the devisees of Denny Fairfax and those
claiming under them, and which is referred to in the act of
December 10, 1796. Revised Code, c. 92.
However, even if it be bonceded- which we do not do -that
the river Potomac and the soil under it were, by virtue of the
grant of Charles I, the private property of Lord Baltimore,
and.that the same lawfully descended to and became vested in
Henry Harford, the last Proprietary of Maryland, still, by the
acts of confiscation passed by the general assembly of Maryland
in 1780, (c. 45 and'49,) all the property and estate of the then
Lord Proprietary of Maryland, -within that State, were confiscated and seized to the use of the State, and, as public
property belonging to the State at the time of the cession
of 1791, passed into the ownership of the United States.
As against this proposition, it is argued on behalf of the
Marshall heirs that the confiscation acts of Maryland were
ineffectual in the present case, because the title to these lands
under water is of such character that they could not be forfeited or confiscated, the owner thereof not having right of
possession or right of entry thereon. If, as is elsewhere
claimed by the appellants, the soil under the river was the
subject of sale and devise,.it is not easy to see why it may not
be subjected to forfeiture and confiscation. Indeed, it was
held in .Aartin v. faddell that lands under navigable waters
were subject to an action of ejectment. And in the case of
Lowndes v, Runtington, 153 U. S. 1, an action of ejectment,
asserting title to land submerged under the waters of Huntington Bay, was sustained.

MORRIS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

It is further claimed, that these acts of Maryland were in
derogation of the common law and of the express provisions
and inhibitions of the constitution and bill of rights of that
State adopted four years before the passage of these acts of
confiscation; and that the effect of the sixth article of the
treaty of 1783 and the ninth article of the treaty of 1794 and
of the act of Maryland of 1787 making the treaty of 1783 the
law of the State, operated to relieve these lands from forfeit-ure and restored them to Henry Harford, and that the power
to pass acts of confiscation did not inhere as a war power in
Maryland.
For an answer to the reasoning advanced by the learned
counsel for the appellants in support of these contentions, it is
sufficient to "-efer to the case of Smith v. -Warylnd,6 Cranch,
286, where it was held, affirming the Court of Appeals of the
State of Maryland, that by the confiscating acts of Maryland
the equitable interests of British subjects were confiscated,
without office or entry or other act done, and although such
equitable interests were not discovered until long after the
peace.
It is finally urged -that, even conceding the validity of the
confiscation acts, and that they were effectual to divest the
title of Henry Harford and put it in the State of Maryland, and
even though it was transferred by the act of cession to the
United States, yet the latter took the property under a trust or
equity created by the treaties with Great Britan, whereby they
are in equity bound to restore it to the Harford heirs or to their
assigns, or to make just compensation for subjecting it to public purposes. It is said that, when now the United States find
themselves in control or possession of a part of the estate of a
subject of Great Britain, they should do what they "earnestly
recommended" should be done by the States, namely, make a
restitution of the confiscated estates.
Whatever force, if any, there may be in such suggestions, it
is quite evident that they are political in their nature, and
appeal to Congress, and not to the courts. It cannot be maintained, with any show of plausibility, that Congress intended,
by the act under which these proceedings are had, that the

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, or that this court
on appeal, should have the right to overturn, after the lapse
of a century, rights originating in statutes of Maryland and of
the United States, sustained as valid by their courts.
We affirm, therefore, the decree of the court" below, in
respect to the Marshall heirs, that, in the words of the act
of 1886, they have no "right, title or interest in any part of
the land or water composing any part .of the Potomac River,
or its flats, in charge of the Secretary of War."
2. The next claim for consideration is that founded upon a
patent issued, on December 6, 1869, from the General Land
Office to John L. Kidwell, for "a tract of vacant land containing fifty-seven acres and seventy-one one-hundredths of an acre,
,called 'Kidwell's Meadows,' and lying in the Potomac River,
above the Long Bridge, according to the official certificate and
plat of survey thereof bearing date the tenth and twelfth of
October, 1867, made and returned by the surveyor of Washington County, pursuant to a special warrant of survey unto
the said surveyor directed on the 26th day of June, 1867, by
the Commissioner of the General Land Office aforesaid, in virtue
of the authority of Congress, under a resolutioi ' directing the
manner in which certain laws of the District of Columbia shall
be executed,' approved on the 16th day of February, 1839."
The resolution of Congress referred to was in the following
words: "That the acts of the State of Maryland for securing
titles to vacant land which wero continued in force by the act
of Congress of the twenty-seventh of February, 1821, in that
part of the District of Columbia which was ceded to the United
States by that State, and which have been heretofore inoperative for want of proper officers or authority in the said District
for their due execution, shall hereafter be executed, as regards
lands in the county of Washington and without the limits of
the city of Washington, by the Secretary of the Treasury,
through the General Land Office, where applications shall be
made for warrants, which warrants shall be directed to the
surveyor for the county of Washington, w'ho shall make return
.to'the Commissioner of the General Land Office; and payment
for said land, according to the said laws of Maryland, shall be

MORRIS v. UNITED STATES.

238

Opinion of the Court.

made to the Treasurer of the United States, whose certificate
of such payment shall be presented to the Commissioner of
the General Land Office, who shall thereupon issue,_ in the
usual form of patents for lands by the United States, a patent
for such land to the person entitled thereto; and the Secretary
of the Treasury shall make such regulations as he may deem
necessary, and shall designate the officers who shall carry the
said acts into effect: Provided,that any land which may have
been ceded to or acquired by the United States for public
purposes shall not be affected by such acts?' 5 Stat. 364.
The space claimed to be comprehended within the courses
and distances of the survey, set forth in the patent, is now
included within the lines of the raised land known as the
reclaimed flats; and the claimants under the patent contend
that this occupation by the United States is an appropriation
of their property, for which they are entitled to compensation
under the proceedings in this suit.
It is alleged in the bill that the patent to Kidwell was
issued without authority of law, and was and is null and void,
and several grounds are set forth for each allegation. The
main contentions on behalf of the Government are that the
land covered by the patent was, when it issued, within the
limits of the city of Washington, and was therefore excepted
from the operations of the resolution of 1839; that the land
was, at the time of the cession, a part. of the bed of the Potomac River and subject to tidal overflow, and was therefore
reserved to the United States for such public uses as ordinarily pertain to the river front of a large city; that said land,
as part of the bed of the Potomac River and subject to overflow by the tides, was not the subject of a patent under the
resolution of 1839, and the General Land Office and its functionaries were without authority to grant a patent therefor;
and that the patent was obtained by fraud, and was ineffectual
by reason of certain specified irregularities.
By their answers the claimants under the patent denied
these several allegations, and under the issues of law and of
fact thus raised a large amount of evidence was taken.
In the opinion of the court below the questions involved

"

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

.were elaborately considered; and they have been fully discussed before us in -the oral and printed arguments of the
respective counsel.
Our examination of the subject has brought us to conclusions which render it unnecessary for us to express an opinion
on several of the questions that have been so fully treated.
In our consideration of the questions now before us we
shall, of course, assume that the river Potomac with, its subjacent soil was included in the grant to Lord Baltimore and
became vested, by the methods hereinbefore considered, in
the State of Maryland, and that, by the act of cession, that
part of the river and its bed which.is concerned in this litigation passed into the control and ownership of the United
States.
Without questioning the power of Congress to have made
a special sale or grant to Kidwell in 1869 of the lands embraced
in this patent, in the condition that they then were, or even
to have provided by a general law for the sale of such lands
by the land office, we are of opinion that it was not the intention of Congress, by the general resolution of 1839, to
subject lands lying beneath the waters of the Potomac and
within the limits of the District of Columbia to sale by the
methods therein provided.
The lands which Congress had in view in passing the resolution were stated to be the vacant lands, for securing title to
which the laws of Maryland which were in force in 1801 had
made provisions, but which laws had remained inoperative,
after the cession, for the want of appropriate officers or authority in the District of Columbia for their execution.
The only acts of Maryland which have been brought to our
attention as having been in force in 1801, under which a disposition of the lands of the State could be made, are the acts
of November session, 1781, c. 20, and of November session,
1788, c. 44. The act of 1781, c. 20, is entitled "An act to
appropriate certain lands to the use of the officers and soldiers
of this State, and for the sale of vacant lands." The preamble recites that there are large tracts of land within the State
"reserved by the late proprietors which may be applied to

MORRIS v. UITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

the discharge of the engagement of lands made to the officers
and soldiers of this State, and that the granting the other
vacant lands in this State would promote population and create a fund towards defraying the public burthen." Sections 3
and 4 provide for a land office, and for issuing "common or
special warrants of vacant cultivation, and for the surveying of
any vacant lands, cultivated or uncultivated."
By the act of November session, 1788, c. 44, all other vacant lands in the State were made liable to be taken up in
the usual manner by warrant.
It would seem evident that the lands whose disposition was
contemplated by these acts were vacant lands which had been
cultivated, or which were susceptible of cultivation.
By such terms of description it would not appear that the
disposition of lands covered by tide water was contemplated,
because such lands are incapable of ordinary and private occupation, cultivation and improvement, and their natural and
primary uses are public in their nature, for highways of
navigation and commerce.
In the case of State v. PaciicGuano Co., 22 S. Car. 50, the
Supreme Court of South Carolina, in discussing a somewhat
similar question, said:
"The absolute rule, limiting land -owners bounded by such
streams to high-water mark, unless altered by law or modified
by custom, accords with the view that the beds of such channels below low-water mark are not held by the State simply
as vacant lands, subject to grant to settlers in the usual way
through the land office.
"There seems to fie no doubt, however, that the State6, as
such trustee, has the power to dispose of these beds as she
may-think best for her citizens, but not being, as it seems to
us, subject to grant in the usual form under the provisions of
the statute regulating vacant lands, it would seem to follow
that in order to give effect to an alienation which the State
might undertake to make, it would be necessary to have a
special act of the legislature expressing in terms and formally
such intention."
In the case of Allegheny City v. Reed, 24 Penn. St. 39, 43,

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

it was held by the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania that the
provisions of the general acts in respect to patents for lands
did not relate to the foundation of an island whose soil had
been swept away by floods. "The title of the Commonwealth to what remained was not gone, but was no longer
grantable under the acts of assembly for selling islands. The
foundation of the island belongs to the Commonwealth still,
but she holds it, as she does the bed of the river and all sand
bars, in trust for all her citizens as a public highway. The act
of 1806 was not a grant of the State's title, but only a mode
prescribed in which titles might thereafter be granted.
The jurisdiction is a special one, and if the subject-matter, to
which the act of 1806 relates, were gone -had ceased to be
- the board of property had no jurisdiction; no more than
they would have over any other subject not intrusted to their
discretion."
In .llamoi8 Central Raioad v. Illinois, 146 U. S. 387, it
was recognized as the settled law of this country that the
ownership of and dominion and sovereignty over lands covered by tide waters, or navigable lakes, within the limits of
the several States belong to the respective States within which
they are found, with the consequent right to use or dispose of
any portion thereof, when that can be done without substantial impairment of the interest of the public in such waters,
and subject to the paramount right of Congress to control
their navigation so far as may be necessary for the regulation
of commerce.
In S ively v. Bowlby, 152 U. S. 1, the discussion was so
thorough as to leave no room for further debate. The conclusi6ns there reached, so far as they are applicable to the
present case, were as'follows:
"It is equally well settled that a grant from the sovereign
of land bounded by the sea, or by any navigable tide water,
does not pass any title below high-water mark, unless either
the language of the grant, or long usage under it, clearly
indicates that such was the intention." 152 U. S. 13.
" We cannot doubt, therefore that Congress
has the.power
to make grants of land-below high-water mark of navigable

MORRIS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

waters in any territory of the United States, whenever it becomes necessary to do so in order to perform international
obligations or to effect the improvement of such lands for the
promotion and convenience of commerce with foreign nations
and among the several States, or to carry out other public
purposes appropriate to the objects for which the United
States holds the territory. But Congress has never undertaken by general laws to dispose of such lands." 152 U. S.
48.
"The Congress of the United States, in disposing of the
public lands, has constantly acted upon the theory that those
lands, whether in the interior,, or on the coast, above highwater mark, may be taken up by actual occupants, in order
to encourage the settlement of the country; but' that the
navigable waters and the soils under them, whether within or
above the ebb and flow of the tide, shall 'be and remain
public highways; and, being chiefly valuable for the public
purposes of commerce, navigation and fishery, and for the improvements necessary to secure and promote those purposes,
shall not be granted away during the period of territorial
government." 152 U. S. 49.
"Upon the acquisition of a territory by the United States,
whether by cession from one of the States, or by treaty with
'a foreign country, or by discovery and settlement, the same
'title and dominion passed to the United States, for the benefit of the whole people and in trust for the several States to
be ultimately created out of the territory." 152 U. S. 57.
. In .Mann v. Tacoma Land Co., 153 U. S. 273, it was again
held that the general legislation of Congress in respect to public lands does not extend to tide lands; that the scrip issued by
the United States authorities to be located on the unoccupied
and unappropriated public lands could not be located on tide
lands; and that the words "public lands" are habitually used
in our legislation to describe such as are subject to sale or
other disposal under gener,.l laws.
As against these principles and these decisions, the claimants under the patent cite and rely on the case of Bpowne v.
Zennedy, 5 H. & J. 195, to the alleged'effect "that the bed

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

of any of the navigable waters of the State may be granted,
and will pass if distinctly comprehended by the terms of any
ordinary patent, issuing from the land office, subject 'only to
the existing public uses of navigation, fishery, etc., which
cannot be hindered or impaired by the patentee."
Our examination of this case has not satisfied us that the
decision therein went as far as is now claimed. As we read
it, the gist of the decision was that, by the common law and
the law of Maryland, proprietors of land bounded by unnavigable rivers have a property in the soil covered by such rivers
ad flum mediam aquae, and that ivhere one holding land oi
both sides of such a stream had made separate conveyances,
bounding on the stream, and the stream had afterwards been
diverted or ceased to exist, the two original grantees took
each to the middle of the land where the stream had formerly
existed, and that a subsequent grantee of the territory formerly occupied by the stream took no title. Such a decision
would have no necessary application here.
Bat we are bound to concede that the Court of Appeals, in
the subsequent case of Wilson v. Inloes, 11 G. & J. 351, has
interpreted Browne v. Kennedy as establishing the principle
that the State has the right to grant the soil covered by navigable water, subject to the public or .common right of navigation and fishery, and inferentially that a title, originating
in a patent issued under general law from the land office,
attached to the land, and gave a right of possession when the
waters ceased to exist.
The decision in Browne v. Kennedy was not made till a
quarter of a century after the cession by Maryland to the
United States, and seems to have been a departure from the
law as previously understood and applied, both during
the colonial times and under th-, State prior to the cession.
Thus in Proprietaryv: Jennings, 1 H. & Mc. 92, an information was filed by the attorney general of the Lord
Proprietor, in 1733, to vacate a patent on the ground that it
had been illegally obtained, and the case clearly indicates
tha't land under tide water was not patentable. Smith and
Purviance v. State, 2 H. &. McH. 214,was the case of an

MORRIS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

appeal from a decree of the chancellor, dated April 27, 1786,
vacating and annulling, on the ground of fraud and misrepresentation, a patent granted to Nathaniel Smith, June 2,
1783, for a tract of land balled Bond's Marsh. It was disclosed in the case that Smith was the owner of a tract of
land called Bond's Marsh, which had been granted to one
John Bond, September 16, 1766, for four acres; and that, oi
April 20, 1782, Smith, who had become the owner of the
tract, petitioned for a warrant of resurvey, stating that he
had discovered some vacant land contiguous thereto, and that
he was desirous of adding the same to the tract already held
by him. Thereupon the surveyor of the county was directed
"to lay out and carefully survey, in th6 name of him, the
said Smith, the said tract of land called Bond's Marsh,
according to its ancient metes and bounds, adding any vacant
lands contiguous thereto," etc. On May 8, 1782, the surveyor
certified to the land office that he had resurveyed the said
original tract called Bond's Marsh, and that it contained
exactly four acres, and that there were seventeen and one
half acres of vacant land added. Upon this Smith obtained
from the State a grant on the said certificate for twenty-one
and a half acres under the name of Bond's Marsh resurveyed,
and, July 8, 1784, Smith conveyed for a consideration two
undivided third parts of said tract to Samuel Purviance.
The bill averred that "although the said Smith by his aforesaid petition did allege and set forth that he had discovered
vacant land adjoining the said tract called Bond's Marsh,
there was not any vacant land adjoining or contiguous to the
same, but that the whole which by the said grant is granted
to the said Smith as vacant land added to the original tract
aforesaid, now is and at the time of obtaining the said
warrant and grant was part of the waters of the northwest
branch of Patapsco River." The bill also averred that
Purviance was not an innocent purchaser, but knew that
the pretended vacancy included in the patent "was not land,
but part of the waters of the northwest branch of Patapsco
River." The decree vacating the patent was affirmed.
In the foot notes to BaZtimore v. MoKin, 3 Bland, 468, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

cases of 1Fowler v. Goodwin and Ritehie v. Sample are referred
to. In Fowler v. Goodwin, the chancellor, on May 19, 1809,
refused to direct a patent to issue because a large part of the
land lay in the waters of Bell's Cove. In 2itchie v. Sample,
the certificate of survey showed that the tract applied for was
a parcel of the Susquehanna River, comprehending a number
of small islands, and the chancellor held, July 10, 1816, "that
the' land covered by the water cannot be called grantable land,
though possibly islands may have been taken up together,
between which the water sometimes flows."
Of course, the recent decisions of the courts of Maryland,
giving to the statutes of that State a construction at variance
with that which prevailed at the time of the cession, cannot
control our decision as to the effect of those statutes on the
territory within the limits of the District of Columbia sinca
the legislative power has become vested in the United States.
Ould v. Washington .Hospital, 95 U. S. 303; .Russell v. Allen,
107 U. S. 163, 171; De VFaughn v. a'utChinon,165 U. S. 566.
At the utmost, such decisions can only be considered as
affecting private rights and controversies between individuals.
They cannot be given effect to control the policy of the United
States in dealing with property held by it under public trusts.
This aspect of the question was considered by Mr. Justice
Cox of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, in a
case arising out of the legislation of Congress establishing the
Rock Creek Park; and wherein the effect of a patent granted
by the State of Maryland, in 1803, for a piece of land afterwards included in the park, was in question. It was said in
the opinion:
"There is a still more important question, and that is
whether the State of Maryland at that period could convey
any interest, legal or equitable, in the property. In the act
of 1791, ceding this property to the United States, there is
this proviso: ' That the jurisdiction of the laws of this State
over the persons and property of individuals residing within
the limits of the cession aforesaid shall not cease or determine
until Congress shall by law provide for the government thereof,
under their jurisdiction in manner provided by the article of

MORRIS v. UNITED STATES..
Opinion of the Court.

the Constitution -before recited.' Now this continues in force
the jurisdiction of the laws of the State of Maryland over the
persons and property of individuals residing therein. To make
that applicable to the present case it would be necessary to
have extended it to the property held by the State; but it
seems to me that that extended no further than to say that
the laws which affected private rights should continue in force
until proper provision was made by Congress. See what the
consequences would be if another construction had been given
to it. The State of Maryland extended to the Virginia shore,
and suppose that after this cession and before 1801 the State
of Maryland had undertaken to cede to the State of Virginia.
the whole bed or bottom of the Potomac River, from its source
to its mouth, including that part in the District of Columbia,
doubtless Congress could have had something to say about it
after the cession had been made. We are satisfied, therefore,
that the proviso does not continue in operation the land lawsof -the State of Maryland, and consequently no title could be
derived at the dates of this survey and patent or at the date
when the warrant on which it was based was taken out. We
are satisfied that the proviso does not continue in operation
the land laws of the State of Maryland as to the public lands
owned by the State within the said District, and that consequently no title to such lands could be obtained by patent
from the State after the act of 1791."
This decision was adopted and the opinion approved by this
court in the case of Shoemaker v. United Stateq, 147 U. S.
282, 307.
If any doubt is left as to whether Congress intended by the
resolhtion of 1839 to subject the river and its subjacent soil to
the ordinary land laws as administered by the land office, that
doubt must, as we think, be removed by a consideration of the
express language of the proviso therein coiltained, withholding
lands held by the United States for public purposes from the
operation of the acts of Maryland. The language of the proviso is as follows: "Provided, that any ladis which may have
been ceded to, or acquired by, the United tatesforpubliocpurPoee, ?hall not be afected by 8uoh a l."
VOL. cLx

-16

.242

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

Placed, as this proviso is, at the end of the enactment, the
natural implication is that Congress did not intend to include
the lands which the United States held for public purposes
within the scope of the resolution, but added the proviso out
of abundant caution. However this may be, the intention
expressed is clear that, in the administration of the land laws
by the Secretary of the Treasury through the general land
office, the lands that had been ceded to or acquired by the
United States for public purposes should not be affected.
What were the lands so held by the United States? UndoUbtedly, the squares and lots selected by the President as
sites for the President's House, the Capitol, and other public
buildings, and which had been, in legal effect, dedicated to
public use by the grantors, were not meant, because the resolution in terms provides that the lands to be affected were
such as were within the county of Washington and without
the limits of the city of Washington.
There may have been other land held by the United States
for public purposes outside of the limits of the city of Washington, but surely the Potomac River and its bed, so far as they
were embraced in the county of Washington, were included
in the terms of the proviso. Indeed, it is not too much to say
that they constituted the very land which Congress was solicitous to withhold from sale under proceedings in the land
office.
It cannot, we think, be successfully claimed that even if,
in 1839, the lands embraced within the ]Kidwell patent were
exempted from the jurisdiction of the land office, yet they
were brought within that jurisdiction by the fact that the
waters had so far receded in 1869 as to permit some sort of
possession and occupancy. Not having been within the meaning of the resolution of 1839, they would not be brought within
it by a subsequent change of physical condition, but a further
declaration by Congress of a desire to open them to private
ownership would be necessary.
Besides, the facts of the case show that Congress is asserting title and dominion over these lands for public purposes.
Whether Congress should exercise its power over these re-

MORRIS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

served lands by dredging, and thus restoring navigation and
fishery, or by reclaiming them from the waters for wharfing
purposes, or to convert them into public parks, or by subjecting them to sale, could only be determined by Congress, and
not by the functionaries of the land office.
If, then, there was an entire want of authority in the land
office to grant these lands held for public purposes, a patent
so inadvertently issued, under a mistaken notion of the law,
would plainly be void, and afford no defence to those, claiming
under it as against the demands of the Government.
As was said by this court in Smelting Co. v. -Kemp, 104 U. S.
636, 641:
"Of course, when we speak of the conclusive presumptions
attending a patent for lands, we assume that it was issued in
a case where the Department had jurisdiction to act anti'execute it; that is to say, in a case where the lands belonged to
the United States, and provision had been made by law ,for
their sale. If they never were public property, or had previously been disposed of, or if Congress had made no provision
for their sale, or had Teserved them, the department would
have no jurisdiction to transfer them, and its attempted conveyance of them would be inoperative and void, no matter
with what seeming regularity the forms of law may have
been observed. The action of the Department would in that
event be like that of any other special tribunal not having
jurisdiction of a case which it had assumed to decide. Matters
of this kind, disclosing a want of jurisdiction, may be considered by a court of law. In such cases the objection to the
patent reaches beyond the action of the special tribunal, and
goes to the existence of a subject upon which it was competent to act."
Similar views were expressed in Dool~a v. Caq-r, 125 U. S.
618, 624, where it was said:
"There is no question as to the principle that where the
officers of the Government have issued a patent in due form
of law, which on its face is sufficient to convey the title to the
land described in it, such patent is to be treated as valid in
actions at law as distinguished from suits in equity, subject,

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Ophilon of the Court.

however, at all times to the inquiry whether such officers had
the lawful authority to make a conveyance of the title. But
if those officers acted without authority, if the land which
they purported to convey had never been within their control,
or had been withdrawn from that control at the time they
undertook to exercise such authority, then their act was void
- void for want of power in them to act on the subjectmatter of the patent - not merely voidable; in which latter
case, if the circumstances justified such a decree, a direct proceeding, with proper averments and evidence, would be required to establish that it was voidable, and therefore should
be avoided.

.

.

It is nevertheless a clear 'distinction,

established by law, and it has often been asserted in this court,
that even a patent from the Government of the United States,
issued with all the forms of law, may be shown to be void by
extrinsic evidence, if it be such evidence as by its nature is
capable
of showing a want of authority for its issue."
IThe further
contention on the pArt of the United States,
that the lands embraced within the Kidwell patent lie within
the limits of the city of 'Washington, and that therefore they
were, for that reason, not grantable by the land office, we
have not found it necessary to detern~ine, and we refrain from
expressing any opinion upon it.
Nor do we need to enter at any length into the question of
fraud attending the issue of the patent. We deem it not
improper to say, however, that the allegations imputing fraud
to the government officials concerned in the issuance of the
patent, or to those who were active in procuring it, or in
asserting rights under it, do not appear to us to have been
sustained by the evidence.
We, therefore, conclude this branch of the case by affirming
the decision of the court below, "that the proceedings of
Kidwell, under the resolution of 1839, to obtain a patent for
the 'Kidwell Meadows,' and the issue .of that patent, are
inoperative to confer upon the patentee or his assigns any title
or interest in the property within its limits, adverse to the
complete and-paramount right therein of the United States."
It is urged on behalf of those claiming under the Kidwell

MORRIS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

patent that a court of equity will not set aside the patent at
the suit of the United States, unless on an offer by the latter
to return the purchase money; that, in granting the relief,
the court will impose such terms and- qualifications as shall
meet the just equities of the opposing party.
As the invalidity of the patent in the present case was not
apparent on its face, but was proved by extrinsic evidence,
and as the controversy respecting the title was not abandoned by the defendants, they were not, we think, entitled
to a decree for a return of the purchase money, oi' for costs.
Pier8ollv. Elliott, 6 Pet. 95.
3. Before considering the remaining claims it will be necessary to dispose of the question of the river boundary of the
city of Washington.
What place should be selected for the permanent seat of
Government was, as shown by the histories of the times, a
matter of long and bitter debate, occupying a large part of
the second session ol the second Congress. After the claims
of Philadelphia and Baltimore Lad beii adversely disposed,
of, the question was reduced to a choice between a site on the
Susquehanna River in Pennsylvania and one on the Potomac
River. And we learn from the recently published journal of
William Maclay, Senator- from Pennsylvania, 1780-91, and
who was an earnest advocate for the former, that the allegation that a large expenditure would be required to render the
Susquehanna navigable was used as a decisive argument in
favor of the site on the Potomac. Maclay's Journal.
The result was the act of July 16, 1790, c. 28, 1 Stat. 130,
whereby the President was authorized to appoint three commissioners to survey and, by proper metes and bounds, to define and limit, under his direction, a district of territory, to be
located on the river Potomac. By the same act, the commissioners were empowered "to purchase or accept such
quantity of land on the eastern side of the said river, within
the said district," as the President might deem proper for the
use of the United'States, and according to 8uch plan8 a8 he
might approve, and were required, prior to the first Monday
of December, 1800, to provide suitable buildings for the ac-

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

commodation of Congress and of the President and for the
public offices of the Government.
It has been the practice in this country, in laying out towns,
to have the plat surveyed, and a plan made in accordance with
the survey, designating the streets, public squares and open
spaces left for commons, wharves or any other public purpose. Those streets, squares and open spaces are thus dedicated to the public by the proprietors of the soil, whether
they be the State or private individuals. When a town is
situated on a navigable river, it is generally the custom to
leave an open space between the line of the lots next the
river and the river itself. This was done by William Penn:
in 1682 in the original plan of the city of Philadelphia on the
Delaware River front, and he called it a top common; and in
1784 his descendants, the former proprietors, in their plan of
Pittsburgh, adopted a similar measure of* leaving such an
open space, and they called it Water street. Birmingam
v. Anderson, 48 Penn. St. 258.
In 1789 the proprietors of the land on which the city of
Cincinnati is built pursued the same policy, and in their plan
the ground lying between Front street and the Ohio River
was set apart as a common for the use and benefit of the town
forever. Cincinnativ. f-hite, 6 Pet. 431; Barclay v. Howell's
Zessee, 6 Pet. 498; 2ew Orleans v. United States, 10 Pet. 662;
Barney v. Keokuk, 94 U. S. 324; Rowan's Executors v. Portland, 8 B. 3onroe, 232.
Our examination of the evidence has led us to the conclusion that it was the intention of the founders of the city of
Washington to locate it upon the bank or shore of the Potomac River, and to bound it by a street or levee, so as to
secure to the inhabitants and those engaged in commerce free
access to the navigable water, and that such intention has
never been departed from.
While, as we have already seen, the United States became
vested with the control and ownership of the Potomac River
and its subjacent soil, within the limits of the District, by
virtue of the act of cession by the State of Maryland, it
must yet be conceded that, as to the land above high-water

MORRIS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

mark, the title of the United States must be found in the
transactions between the private proprietors and the United
'States, consisting of the mutual agreements entered into by
the proprietors, their deeds of conveyance to the trustees,
their concurrence in the action of the commissioners in laying out plats and giving certificates, and their recognition of
the several plans of the city made under the direction of the
President.
As we have already said, our inquiry is as to the intention
of the parties to be affected, but that intention need not be
expressed by any particular form or ceremony, but may be a
matter of necessary implication and inference from the nature
and circumstances of the case.
We cannot undertake to comment upon each and every step
of the transactions, but shall briefly refer to those of the mgst
significance.
And, first, in the agreement of March 13, 1791, signed by
the principal proprietors, including Robert Peter, David Burns,
Notley Young and Daniel Carroll, are the following recitals:
"We, the subscribers, in consideration of the great benefits
we expect to derive from having the Federal City laid off upon
our lands, do hereby agree and bind ourselves, our heirs, executors and administrators, to convey in trust to the President of
the United States, or Commissioners, or such person or persons
as he shall appoint, by good and sufficient deeds in fee simple,
the whole of our respective lands which he may think proper
to include within the lines of the Federal City, for the purposes
and on the conditions following:
"The President shall have the sole power of directing the
Federal City to be laid off in what manner he pleases. He
may retain any number of squares he may think proper for
public improvements, or other public uses, and the lots only
which shall be laid off shall be a joint property between the
trustees on behalf of the public and each present proprietor,
and the same shall be fairly and equally divided between the
public and the individuals,as soon as may be after the city
shall be laid out.
"For the streets the proprietors shall receive no compensa-

OCTOBER TERTfI,

1898.

Opinion of the Court.

tion, but for the squares or lands in any form which shall be
taken for public buildings or any kind of public improvements
or uses, the proprietors, whose lands shall be so taken, shall
receive at the rate of twenty-five pounds per acre, to be paid
by the public," etc.
And by an agreement of March 30, 1191, the proprietors of
lots in Carrollsburgh, including Daniel Carroll and Notley
Young, it was provided as follows:
"We, the subscribers holding or entitled to lots in Carroll3
burgh, agree with each other and with the President of the
United States that the lots and land we hold or are entitled to
in Carrollsburgh shall be subject to be laid out at the pleasure
of the President as part of the Federal City, and that we will
receive one half the quantity of our respective lots as near
their present situation as may agree with the new plan, and
where we may be entitled now to only one lot or otherwise
not entitled on the new plan to one entire lot, or do not agree
with the President, Commissioners or other person or persons
acting on behalf of the public on an adjustment of our interest,
we agree that there shall be a sale of the lots in which we may
be interested respectively, and the produce thereof in money
or securities shall be equally divided, one half as a donation
for the use of the United States under the act of Congress, the
other half to ourselves respectively. And we engage to make
.conveyances of our respective lots and lands aforesaid to
trustees or otherwise whereby to relinquish our rights to the
said lots and lands, as the President or such Commissioners or
persons acting as aforesaid shall direct, to secure to the United
States the donation intended lay this agreement."
A similar agreement was entered into by the owners of the
lots in the town of Hamburgh.
Following these agreements came the conveyances by the
several proprietors to Beall and Gantt, trustees. Without
quoting from them at length, and referring to those of David
Burns and Notley Young, copied in full in the Statement of
the Case, it is sufficient here to say that the proprietors, by
said conveyances, completely divested themselves of all title to
the tracts conveyed, and that the lands were granted to the

MORRIS v. VUNITED STATES.
Opihion of the Court.

said trustees, "To have and to hold the hereby bargained and.
sold lands with their appurtenances to the said Thomas Beall
and John Mackall Gantt, and the survivor of them, and the
heirs of such survivor, forever, to and for the special trust following, and no other, that is to say, that all the said lands
.hereby bargained and sold, or such part thereof as may be
thought necessary or proper, be laid out together with the
lands for a Federal City, with such streets, squares, parcels
and lots as the President of the United States for the time being shall approve; and that the said Thomas Beall and John
Mackall Gantt, or the survivor of them, or the heirs of such
survivor, shall convey to the Commissioners for the time being
appointed by virtue of an act of Congress entitled 'An act for
establishing the temporary and permanent seat of the Government of the United States,' and their successors, for the use of
the United States forever, all the said streets, and such of the
said squares, parcels and lots as the President shall deem
proper for the use .of the United States. And that as to the
residue of the lots into which the said lands hereby bargained
and sold shall have been laid out and divided, that a fair and
equal division of them shall be made," etc.
In a suit betweenthe heirs of David Burns and the city of
Washington and the United States this court had occasion
to pass upon the nature of these grants, and used the following language:
"It is not very material, in our opinion, to decide what was
the technical character of the grants made to the -Government; whether they are to be deemed mere donations or
purchases. The grants were made for the foundation of a
Federal City; and the public faith was necessarily pledged,
when the grants were accepted, to found such a city. The
very agreement to found a city was 'itself a most valuable
consideration for these grants. It changed the nature and
value of the property of the proprietors to an almost incalculable extent. The land was no, longer to be devoted.
to agricultural purposes, but acquired the extraordinary value
of city lots. In proportion to the success of the city would be
the enhancement of this value; and it required scarcely any

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

aid from the imagination to foresee that this act of the Government would soon convert the narrow income of farmers into
solid opulence. The proprietors so considered it. In this
very agreement they state the motive of their proceedings
in a plain and intelligible manner. It is not a mere gratuitous
donation from motives of generosity or public spirit; but in
consideration of the great benefits they expect to derive from
having the Federal City laid off upon their lands. Neither
considered it a case where all was benefit on one side ahd all
sacrifice on the other. It was in no just sense a case of charity, and never was so treated in the negotiations of the parties.
But, as has been already said, it is not in our view material
whether it be considered as a donation or a purchase, for in
each case it was for the foundation of a city." Fan Ne9 v.
Mashington, 4 Pet. 232, 280.
In Potomac Steamboat Co. v. jpper Potomac Steamboat Co.,
109 U. S. 686, after an elaborate consideration of the agreements and conveyances, it was said:
"Undoubtedly Notley Young, prior to the founding of the
city and the conveyance of his land for that purpose, was entitled to enjoy his riparian rights for his private uses and to
the exclusion of all the world besides. It can hardly be possible that the establishment of the city upon the plan adopted,
including the highway on the river bank, could have left the
right of establishing public wharves, so essential to a great centre of population ,and wealth, a matter of altogether private
ownership."
Thomas Johnson, Daniel Carroll and David Stuart were,
on January 22, 1791, appointed by President Washington such
Commissioners; and on March 30, 1791, by his proclamation
of that date, the President finally established the boundary
lines of the District; directed the Commissioners to proceed to
have the said lines run, and, by proper metes and bounds, defined and limited; and declared the territory, so to be located,
defined and limited, to be the district for the permanent seat
of the Government of the United States.
With the lines of the District thus established, the next important question that presented itself was the location of the

MORRIS v. UNlITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

Federal City, in which were to be erected the buildings for
the accommodation of Congress, the President's House, and the
public offices.
We are here met with a serious controversy as to the place
and nature of the river boundary of the city. The record cons
tains a large amount of evidence, consisting chiefly of maps and
plans, of correspondence between the President and the Commissioners, the deeds of conveyance by the original proprietors,
and the testimony of old residents, some of whom had acted
as surveyors and engineers during the early history of the city.
We cannot complain of having been left unassisted to examine and analyze this mass of evidence, for we have had the
aid of the painstaking opinion of the court below and of a
number of able briefs on all sides of the controversy.
As a national city was to be founded, which was to be
the permanent seat of the Government of the United States,
where foreign nations would be expected to be represented,
and as the site selected was on a navigable, tide-water river,
inviting foreign and domestic commerce, we should naturally
expect to find the city located in immediate proximity to the
river, with public wharves and landings, and with a municipal
ownership and control of the streets and avenues leading to
and bounding on the stream.
As we have seen, the agreement of the proprietors provided
that "the President shall have the sole power of directing
the Federal City to be laid off in what manner he pleases."
In the exercise of that power the President, at different
times, caused several maps or plans of the city to be prepared,
the authenticity, and effect of which constitute a large part of
the controversy in the present case.
The earliest of these plans was that prepared in 1791, by
Major L'Enfant, and was by him submitted to the President
on August 19 of that year. On October 17, 1791, after advertisement, and under direction by the President, the Commissioners sold a few lots. On.December 13, 1791, by a
communication of that date, the President placed before
Congress this L'Enfant plan. On this plan the squares were
unnumbered and the streets unnamed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

Afterwards differences arose between L'Enfant and the
Commissioners, which resulted in the removal of L'Enfant by
the President early in March, 1792. Thereupon Andrew Ellicott was directed by the President to prepare this plan so that
it might be engraved, but Major L'Enfant refused to permit
Ellicott to use his original plan, and Ellicott proceeded to prepare a plan from materials in his possession and from such information as he had acquired while acting as surveyor under
L'Enfant.
It may be well to mention, though out of chronological
order, that in a letter of February, 1797, President Washington, in a letter to the Commissioners, referring to LPEnfant's
plan and tb certain alterations that had been made, stated that
Mr. Davidson, a purchaser of lots, "is mistaken if he supposed that the transmission of Major L'Enfant's plan of the
city to Congress was the completion thereof; so far from it,
it would appear from the message which accompanied the
same that it was given as a matter of information only to
show what state the business was in; that the return of it
was requested; that neither house of Congress passed any act
consequent thereupon; that it remained as before under the
control of the Executive."
Ellicott completed his plan and laid it before the President
on February 20, 1792. This plan was engraved at Boston and
at Philadelphia -the engraved plans differing in the circumstance that the latter -did and the former did not exhibit
the soundings on the river front and on the Eastern Branch.
On October 8, 1792, the Commissioners, who had been notified that "about 100 squares were prepared and ready for
division," had i6 second public sale of lots-- a copy of Ellicott's engraved plan being exhibited at the sale. Under the
general authority conferred upon them by the President, on
September 29, 1792, to make private sales at such prices and
on such terms as they might think proper, the Commissioners,
before November 6, 1792, had effected private sales of fifteen
lots.
Between" 1792 and 1797, this plan of Ellicott's, known as
the "engraved'plan," was circulated by the Commissioners in

MORRIS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

the United States, and forwarded to European countries from
the Office of State, as the plan of the city, and was referred
to as such by the Commissioners in their negotiations for
loans for the purpose of carrying on the public buildings.
On February 27, 1797, the Commissioners addressed a letter
to the President, in which, among other things, they said:
"What Mr. Davidson alludes to in his memorial, when he
says. deviations have been made since the publication of the
engraved plan, -we know not; that plan required the doing of
many acts to carry it into effect -such as the laying out and
bounding a water street on the waters which surround the
city, and laying out squares where vacant spaces unappropriated were left in several parts of the city. Acts of this kind
have no doubt from time to time been done, and with the full
consent of all interested."
It appears that the Ellicott plan was, in some respects,
incomplete, as it did not show all the squares or correctly
delineate the public reservations, and was made before the
completion of the surveys.
The first appearance of the Dermott map, that we find in
this record, was on June 15, 1795, when, as appears in the
proceedings of the Commissioners of that date, "Deimott is
directed to prepare a plat of the city with every public appropriation plainly and distinctly delineated, together with the
appropriation now made by the board for the National University and Mint."
On March 2, 1797, by an instrument under his hand and
seal, President Washington requested Thomas Beall and Sohn
M. Gantt, the trustees, to convey to the Commissioners all the
streets in the city of Washington, as they are laid out and
delineated in the plan of the city thereto annexed; and also
the several squares, parcels and lots of ground therein described. Though in this communication President Washington mentioned a plan of the city as annexed thereto, yet it
seems that a plan was not so actually annexed. And on June
21, 1798, the Commissioners wrote a letter to President Adams
in the following terms:
"At the close of the late President's administration he exe-

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

cuted an act directing the trustees of the city of Washington
to convey to the Commissioners the streets of said city and
the grounds which were appropriated to public use. In the
press of business the plan referred to was not annexed. We
now send it by Mr. Nourse, with the original act and the
draft of another act, which appears to us proper to be executed by the present President, in order to remove any objection to a compliance with the late President's request arising
from the omission above mentioned. As these acts are the
authentic documents of the title of the public to the lands
appropriated, we shall write to Mr. Craik, or some other
gentleman, to take charge of their return rather than trust
them to the mail."
Accordingly, on July 23, 1798, President Adams, by an
instrument reciting the act executed by his predecessor on
March 2, 1797, and the non-annexation to that act of the plan
of the city therein mentioned, makes known to Beall and
Gantt, trustees, that he has caused the said plan to be
annexed to the said act, and requests them to convey to the
Commissioners for the use of the United States forever,
according to the tenor of the act of Congress of July 16,
1790, "all the streets in the said city of Washington, as they
are laid out and delineated in the plan of the said city hereto
annexed, and all the squares, parcels and lots of ground
described in the said act as public appropriations."
The following entry, as of the date of August 31, 1198,
appears in the proceedings of the Commissioners: "Mr. William Craik delivered into the office the plan of the city of
Washington, with the acts of the late and present Presidents."
Some dispute subsequently arose as to whether the plan
which President Washington intended to have annexed to his
act was the plan of Ellicott or that of Dermott. Thus, in an
opinion delivered on December 16, 1820, by Attorney General
Wirt to President Monroe, it was said that "if President
Washington has, as Mr. Breckinridge states, previously ratified
Ellicott's engraved plan, this must be considered as the plan
he intended to annex, and it was not competent for President

MORRIS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

Adams to give the instrument of writing a different direction
by annexing to it a different plan."
But this opinion was evidently given in ignorance of the
proceedings of the Commissioners on June 21, 1798, already
referred to, and inwhich it appears that, in their letter to President Adams, they mention that the plan sent was "the last plan
of the city, made by Mr. Dermott, and referred to in said
instrument of writing" - the said instrument of writing being
President Washington's act of March 2, 1797.
We also find in the record that, on January 7,1799, Attorney
General Lee, in an opinion given to President Adams, said:
"Already a plan of the city has been approved and ratified
by the President of the United States, who has signed the plan
itself, or an instrument referring to the plan, which I presume
is a sufficient authentication. If this plan, under the President's
signature, varies from the L'Enfant's or Ellicott's essays, they
must yield to it, as they are to be considered only as preparatory to that plan which received ultimately the *formal and
solemn approbation of the President. It is not supposed that
this is incomplete in any respect, except in relation to the
rights appurtenant to the water lots, and to the street which
is to be next to the water courses."
The record also contains a copy of a report of a committee
of the House of Representatives, of April 8, 1802, in which it
is said, referring to the Dermott plan:
"This plan has been signed by Mr. Adams, in conformity
with which the trustees were directed by him to convey the
public grounds to the United States, and is considered by the
Commissioners the true plan of the city. The plan has never
been engraved or published.

.

.

.

Your committee are of

the opinion that suffering the engraved plan, which is no
longer the true plan of the city, to continue to pass as such,
may be productive of great deception to purchasers; and that
measures, ought to be taken for its suppression."
On July 14, 1804, President Jefferson, in a communication
to Mr. Thomas Monroe, Superintendent of Public Buildings,
said:
"The plan and declaration of 1797 were final so far as they

256

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

Went, but even they left many things unfinished, some of
which still remain to be declared."
What would seem to be decisive of the dispute is the fact
that in the act or instrument signed by President Washington
on March 2, 1797, is contained, by metes and bounds, a specification of the reservations, seventeen in number,. and those
metes and bounds do not coincide with the reservations indicated upon the Ellicott plan, but do accurately coincide with
the reservations as indicated in the Dermott plan.
We, therefore, cannot doubt that the Dermott map was the
one intended by President Washington to be annexed to his
act of March 2, 1797.
But while we regard the Dermott map as sufficiently authenticated, we do not accept the contention that it is to be considered as the completed and final map of the city, and that it
alone determines the questions before us.
On the contrary, we think it plain, upon the facts shown
by this record, that the President, the Commissioners and the
surveyors proceeded, step by step, in evolving a plan of the
city., Under each of the plans mentioned lots were sold and
private rights acquired. Changes were, from time to time,
made to suit the demands of interested parties, and additions
were made as the surveys were perfected. Even the last map
approved by President Washington, as was said by President
Jefferson in 1804, left many things unfinished, some of which
still remained to be declared.
In short, we think that these several maps are to bp taken
together as representing the intentions of the founders of the
city, and, so far as possible, are to be reconciled as parts of
one scheme or plan.
Pursuing such a method of investigation, we perceive that,
in the first map submitted to Congress by President Wash-ington on December 13, 1791, as "the plan of the city," there
is between the lots fronting on the Potomac and the river
itself an open spade, undoubtedly intended as a thoroughfare
and for public purposes. It is true that this open space is
not named as a street. But none of the other streets and
avenues on this map are named. And we read in a letter of

MORRIS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

the Commissioners to Major L'Enfant, dated September 9,
1791, as follows:
"We have agreed that the Federal District shall be called
'The Territory of Columbia,' and the Federal City 'The City
of Washington;' the title of the map will therefore be 'A
map of the City of Washington in the Territory of Columbia.'
We have also agreed the streets be named alphabetically one
way, and numerically the other; the former divided into north
and south letters, the latter into east and west numbers from
the capitol. Major Ellicott, with proper assistants, will immediately take and soon furnish you with soundings of the
Eastern Branch to be inserted in the map."
This L'Enfant plan contains all the essential features of the
city of Washington as they exist to-day.
Owing to the disputes between L'Enfant and the Commis
sioners, as already stated, the former withdrew, and Andrew
Ellicott, who had been acting as an assistant to L'Enfant, proceeded with the work, with the result that about October,
1792, the engraved or Ellicott map was completed and in the
.hands of the Commissioners. This map shows the squares
numbered, the avenues named, 'and the lettered and numbered
streets all designated. It also shows on the front on the Potomac River and on the Eastern Branch, between the ends of
the, lots and the squares and the water, an open, continuous
space or street, extending through the entire front of the city.
But it must be-said of this map that it did not show all the
squares or correctly place the public reservations, and, indeed,
it was made before the completion of the surveys. As was
said by the Commissioners in their letter of February, 1797,
"that plan required the doing of many acts to carry it into
effect, such as the laying out and bounding a water street on
the waters which surround the city."
Then came, in March, 1797,. the Dermott map, which indicated the location and extent of the public reservations or
appropriations, and also certain new squares, not shown on the
engraved plan, and which were laid out on the open spaces
at the intersection of streets appearing on the engraved plan;
and also exhibited the progress that had bed- Tmade since
VOL. cLrxxw-17

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

1792, in laying down the city upon the ground in accordance
with the scheme of the previous plans. But, as was said by
President Jefferson on July 14, 1804, in a passage previously
quoted, "The plan and declaration of 1797 were final so far
as they went; but even they left many things unfinished, some
of which still remain to be declared."
President Jefferson was probably led to form this opinion
by his personal knowledge of the situation, which was intimate. And here may well be quoted a portion of a long communication addressed to him by Nicholas King, surveyor of
the city of Washington, dated September 25, 1806, in which
the writer, adverting to the several plans and to certain regulations published by the Commissioners on July 20, 1795, said:
"Perfecting this part of the plan, so as to leave nothing for
conjecture, litigation or doubt, in the manner which shall most
accord with the published plans, secure the health of the city,
and afford the most convenience to the merchants, requires
immediate attention.

.

.

.

The principle adopted in the

engraved plan, if carried into effect and finally established in
the plan now laid out upon the ground, when aided by proper
regulations as to the materials and mode of constructing
wharves for vessels to lay at and discharge their cargoes on,
seems well calculated to preserve the purity of the air. The
other streets will here terminate in a street or key, open t6'
the water, and admitting a frde current of -air. It will form
a general communication between the wharves and warehouses
of different merchants, and, by facilitating intercourse, render
a greater service to them than they would derive from a permission to wharf as they pleased. The position of this Water
Street being determined, it will ascertain the extent and situation of the building squares and streets on the made ground,
from the bank of the river and bring the present as near to
the published plan as now can ,be done. It will define the
extent and privileges of water lots, and enable the owners to
improve without fear of infringing on the rights of others.
SAlong the water side of the street, the free current
or stream of the river should be permitted to flow and carry
with it whatever may have been brought from the city along

MORRIS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

the streets or sewers. The wharves permitted beyond this
street to the channel may be stages or bridges with piers
and sufficient waterways under them. And on the wharves
so erected, it would seem proper to prohibit the erection
of houses or anything obstructing a free circulation of air.
.

.

The surveying is now so far completed that it can

.

be done with the utmost precision, and every foot of ground
within the limits of the Federal City, with its appurtenant
privileges, may be so defined as to prevent litigation or doubt
on the subject. If it is not done at this time the evils will
increase and every year add to our difficulties. Even now,
from the various decisions or neglects, alterations or amendments which have heretofore taken place, some time an investigation may be necessary in the arrangement of a system
which shall combine justice with convenience. If this decision
is left to a future period and our courts of law, they can only
have a partial view of the subject, and any general rule they
may adol'. may be attended with serious disadvantages."
Nicholas King himself prepared a plan or serial map of
sixteen sheets in 1803. There is evidence tending to show
that this was done in pursuance of an order of the Commissioners; and in reference to it the record contains the testimony, in the present case, of William Forsythe, who had been
connected for many years with the office of surveyor of the
city, in subordinate capacities and as the head of it, and who
was in 1876 the surveyor of the District of Columbia. He
says:
"I can only say that it is the best in point of execution of
the early maps of the city; and that it has been acted upon
ever since it has been prepared in connection with the affairs
of the surveyor's office, and that the lines of wharfing indicated upon the map from Rock Creek to Easby's Point have
been followed; in other words, that all the improvements,
such as reclamation of land, and the wharves that have been
built in that section of the city, were made and built in accordance with the plan of wharfing, etc., indicated on this
map.

.

.

.

The mtp of 1803 has always, in my recollec-

tion going back'forty years in Connection with the surveying

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

department of the city, been considered and acted upon as an
official map, and from conversation with those who have preceded me in the surveyor's office, I know that it was always
considered by them as an authentic oMcial map of the city.
It has in fact been the standard map."
While it is true that this map of 1803 -as never officially
approved or authenticated by any President of the United
not therefore of conStates, as were the earlier maps, and is,
clusive effect, it is, in our opiion, a 1egitimate and important
piece of evidence.
In connection with the later map of 1803, prepared by.
King, ought also to be considered a series of plans, drawn by
him and laid before the Commissioners on March 8, 1797, in
a communication, as follows:
"I send you herewith a seriesof plans exhibiting that part
of the city which lies in the vicinity of the water, and includes
what is called th 9 water property, from the confluence of
Rock Creek with the Potomac to the public appropriation for
the Marine Hospital on the Eastern Branch. What appears
to me the most eligible course for Water street, with the
necessary alterations in the squares already laid out, or the
newyqnes ,which will be introduced thereby, are distinguishable
by the red ,lines which circumscribe them, while those already
established are designated by two black lines."
Without pausing to examine the King map and plans in
their particulars, to some of which we may have occasion to
recur at a subsequent stage of our investigation, it is enough
to here state that the existence of a water street in front of
the city, and comporting, in the main, with its course as laid
down on the engraved plan of the Ellicott plan, is distinc.tively recognized.
The record also contains a map proposed by William Elliott, surveyor of the city of Washington, in 1835, and adopted
in 1839 by the city councils and approved by President Van
Buren, entitled "Plan of part of the City of Washington,
exhibiting the water lots and Water street, and the wharves
and docks thereon, along the Potomac, from E to T streets
south." This map exhibits Water street as extending in front

MORRIS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

of that part of the city embraced in the map, and it also
shows that what are styled "water lots" front on the north
side of Water street.
We have not overlooked the fact disclosed by the evideiice
in the record that, even during the presidency of General
Washington, there were complaints made, from time to time,
of alleged changes or departures from the L'Enfant and Ellicott plans, and that also efforts were made, sometimes successfully, to get changes allowed. And on November 10, 1798, a
memorial was addressed to President Adams by some of the
proprietors of lands within the city, complaining of changes
made by the Dermott plan in some of the features of the
previous plans, and calling attention to the incompleteness
of that plan in omitting a delineation of Water street.
But these complaints appear to have been ineffectual. Nor
are we disposed to understand them as meaning more than a
as assertcall for a perfect delineation of Water street -not
such a
of
ing that the Dermott plan was an abandonment
street.
In connection with the various maps and plans must be
read the regulations issued by the Commissioners while they
were acting, and their contract and agreements with the
proprietors and purchasers.
In July, 1795, certain wharfing regulations were published,
containing, among other things, the following: "That all the
proprietors of Water lots are permitted to wharf and build as,
far out into the river Potomac and the Eastern Branch as.
they may think convenient and proper, not injuring or interrupting the channels or navigation of the said waters; lea4ing a space, wherever the general plan of the streets, of the! city
requires it, of equal breadth with those streets; which-, if made'
by an individual holding the adjacent property, shall be subject
to his separate occupation and use, until 'te pbli6 shall reifii-"
burse the expense of making such street; and- where no" treet
or streets intersect said wharf, to leave a space of sixty feet
for a street at the termination of every three hundred feet of
made ground." This was certainly an assertion of the control
by the public, then represented by the Commissioners, over the

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

fast land adjoining the shores and extending to the navigable
channels.
Another fact of much weight is that, in the division of
squares between the Commissioners and Notley Young, the
plats of which were signed by the Commissioners and by
Notley Young, in March, 1797, the southern boundary is
given as Water street.
It is, doubtless, true, as argued in the brief filed for those
who succeeded to Young's title, that such a division would
not, of itself, have the effect of vesting title in fee to the land
in the United States. Nor, perhapsi would such a transaction
operate as a donation by Young to the city of the territory
covered by the street, although it might be deemed a dedication thereof to public use as a street.
But the importance of the fact consists in the recognition
by Young of the existence of Water street, as an existing or
projected southern boundary of the squares.
Stress is laid, in the arguments for the appellants, on the
use of the term "water lots," in the agreement of December
24, 1793, between the Commissioners for the Federal buildings, of the one part, and Robert Morris and James Greenleaf, of the other part, and also on the statement made, in
that agreement; that Morris and Greenleaf were entitled to
the lots in Notley Young's land, and, of course, to the privileges of wharfing annexed thereto.
It should, however, be observed that the term "water lots,"
as used in that agreement, and elsewhere in the proceedings
of the Commissioners, does not necessarily mean that such
lots were bounded by the Potomac River. The lots fronting
on Water street were spoken of as "water lots" because next
to that street and nearer to thet river than the lots lying behind -a fact which gave them additional value. That this
was the usage in speaking of "water lots" appears in Elliott's
map made in 1835, and approved by President Van Buren in
1839, where the lots abutting on Water street on the south
are termed "water lots."
As to the statement in the agreement that 'Morris and
Greenleaf, as purchasers from the Commissioners of lots in

MORRIS v. 1JNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

INotley Young's land, would be entitled to the privilege of
wharfing annexed thereto, it must be remembered that that
language was used in 1793, before the division of squares between Notley Young and the Commissioners was made.
It is true that in the return made'by the surveyors, on June
15, 1793, of squares 472, 473, 505, 506, south of 506, and south
of south 506, they bounded said lots by the Potomac River.
But in a further and subsequent return, made on December
1, 1793, these squares are given, in each instance, a boundary
by Water street. And on June 22, 1794, the Commissioners
adopted the later survey, as shown by an entry on their minutes, as follows:
"The Commissioners direct that the surveys and returns
made of the part of the city in Mr. Young's land, ddjoining
the Potomak, leaving Water street according to the design
of the plan of the city, be acted on instead, of the returns
made by Major Ellicott in some instances bounded with and
in others near the water."
And we learn, from the evidence in the record, tflat on July
12, 1794-, by a letter of that date, Thomas Freeman, a surveyor
in the employ of the Commissioners, ififormed them that
"Water street on Potomak River is adjusted and bounded."
So that Morris and Nicholson, who succeeded to the interest of Greenleaf, took under their contract squares laid off
in Kotley Young's land with a boundary in every instance on
Water street.
.By various ordinancesi from time to time passed, the city,
from -its organization in 1802, exercised jurisdiction over the
portions of the Potomac River and the Eastern Branch adjoining the city and within its limits. So, too, Congress, by
the act of May 15, 182Q, c. 104, 3 Stat. 583, enacted, that "the
city shofild have power to preserve the navigation of the
Potomac and Anacostia Rivers, adjoining the city, to erect,
repair and regulate public wharves, and to deepen creeks,
docks and basins; to regulate'the manner of erecting and the
rates of wharfage at private wharves; to regulate the anchorage, stationing and mooring of vessels."
Controversies arose, involving the .meaning of the agree-

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

ments between the original proprietors and the United States
and the city of Washington, and as to the effect of subsequent
acts of Congress and ordinances of the city authorities, and

these questions found their way into the courts.
Van Ness and Vie v. Washington, 4 Pet. 232, grew out of
an act of Congress of May 7, 1822, authorizing the corporation
of Washington, in order to improve certain parts of the public
reservations and to drain the low grounds adjoining the river, to
lay off in building lots certain parts of the public reservations
and squares, and also a part of B street, as laid out and designated in the original plan of the city, which lots they might
sell at auction, and apply the proceeds to those objects, and
afterwards to enclosing, planting and improving other-reservations, the surplus, if any, to be paid into the Treasury of
the United States. The act also authorized the heirs or vendees of the former proprietors of the land on which the city
was- laid out, who might consider themselves injured by the
purposes of the act, to institute in the Circuit Court of the
District of Columbia a bill in equity against the United States,
setting forth the grounds of any claim they might consider
themselves entitled to make; the court to hear and determine
upon the claim of the plaintiffs, and what portion, if any, of
the money arising from the sale of the lots they might be
entitled to, with a right of appeal to this court. The plaintiffs, Van Ness and wife, filed their bill against the United
States and the city of Washington, claiming title to the lots
which had been thus sold, under David Burns, the original
proprietor of that part of the city, on the ground that by the
agreement between the United States and the original proprietors, upon the laying out of the city, those reservations
and streets were forever to remain foi public use, and without
the consent of the proprietors could not be otherwise appropriated or sold for private use; that by such sale and .appropriation for private use the right of the United States thereto
was determined, or that the original .proprietors reacquired a
right to have the reservations laid out in building lots for
.their joint and equal benefit with the United States, or that
they were in equity entitled to the whole or a moiety of the

MORRIS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

proceeds of the sales of "the lots. This court held that the
United States possessed an unqualified fee in the streets and
squares, and *that no iights or claims existed in the former
proprietors or their heirs.
This decision is criticised by the learned counsel of 'the
appellants as founded on an erroneous assumption by the
court, that Beall and Gantt, the trustees, had made a conveyance, on November 30, 1791, of all the premises contained in
the previous agreements, including the squares or lots for
public buildings and the land for the streets. And, indeed,
it does appear, by the evidence in the present case, that although both President Washington and President Adams
did formally request the trustees to convey to the Commissioners all the streets in the city of Washington, and also the
several squares, parcels and lots of ground appropriated for
public purposes, yet that the trustees, owing to disputes and
objections on the part of several of the original proprietors,
failed to ever actually execute such a deed of conveyance.
Yet even if such an alleged state of facts had been made to
appear to the court, namely, that no conveyance of the land
in the streets had been actually made by the trustees, we
think the conclusion reached by the c6urt in that case could
not have been different.
In the act of Maryland, ratifying the cession, and entitled
"An act concerning the Territory of Columbia and the City
of Washington," passed December 19, 1791, c. 45, was contained the following ( 5):
"-And be it enacted, That all the squares, lots, pieces and
parcels of land within the. said city, which have been- or shall
be appropriated for the use of the United States, and also the
streets, shall remain and be for the use of the United States;
and all the lots and parcels, which have been or shall be sold
to raise money as a donation as aforesaid, shall remain and
be to the purchasers, according to the terms and conditions of
their respective purchase

.

.

In August, 1855, Attorney General Cushing rendered to
the Secretary of the Interior an opinion upon the question
of the authority of the Commissioner of Public Buildings, as

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

successor of the early Commissioners, to sell and convey lots
in the city of Washington. Adverting to the act of the legislature of Maryland of December 19, 1791, and citing the section above quoted, he said:
"This provision seems to have been designed to have the
legal effect to vest in the United States the fee of all the lots,
conveyed for their use, and also to perfect the titles of purchasers to whom sales had been or should be made according
to the terms of the act of Congress." 7 Opinions of Attys.
Gent. 355.
And even if the act of Maryland did not avail, of itself, to
convey unto the United States a legal statutory title, the fdcts
show that the United States were entitled to a conveyance
from the trustees, and a court of equity will consider that as
having been done which ought to have been done.
In point of fact the trustees did, by their deed of November 30, 1796, on the request of President Washington, convey to
the Commissioners in fee simple all that part of the land which
had been laid off into squares, parcels or lots for buildings and
remaining so laid off in the city of Washington, subject to the
trusts remaining unexecuted.
In the case of Potomac Steamboat Co. v. Upper Potomac
Steamboat Co., 109 U. S. 672, it was held, following Van Ivess
v. Washington, that the fee of the streets was in the city, and
further that the strip between the squares and lots and the
Potomac River was such a street, and that there were no private riparian rights in Notley Young and those who succeeded
to his title.
In the discussion of the evidence that led to such a conclusion-Mr. Justice Matthews said:
"It has been observed that both'squares No. 472 and No.
504 are bounded on the southwest by Water street. This
street was designated on the adopted plan of the city as occupying the whole line of the river front, and separating the line
of the squares from the river for the entire distance from
Fourteenth street to the Arsenal grounds. It -is alleged in
..the bill in respect to this street that there was traced on the
map of the city - but a single line denoting its general course

MORRIS v. 1triITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

and direction; that the dimensions of said Water street, until
the adoption, on the 22d of February, 1839, of the certain
plan of one William Elliott, as hefeinafter more particularlymentioned, were never defined by law; and that the said
Water street was never, in fact, laid out and made in the said
city until some time after the close of the recent civil~war;
that before the commencement of the said civil war one high
bluff or cliff extended along the bank of said river in the city
of Washington, from Sixth street west to Fourteenth street
west; that to the edge thereof the said bluff or cliff, between
the points aforesaid, was in the actual use and enjoyment of
the owners of the land which it bounded towards the river;
ihat public travel between the two streets last above mentioned, along the said river, could only be accomplished by
passing over a sandy beach, and then only when the tide was
low; and that what is now the path of Water street, between
the two streets aforesaid, was and has.been made and fashioned
by cutting down the said cliff or bluff and filling in the said
stream adjacent thereto.'
"These allegations, in substance, are addmitted in the answer
to be true, with the qualification that the width of the street
was left undefined because it constituted the whole space
between. the line of the squares and the river, whatever that
might be determined to be from time to time; but that .the
Commissioners, on March 22, 1796, made an order directing
it to be laid out eighty feet in width from square 1079 to
square east of square 1025, and to ' run out the squares next
to the water and prepare them for division;' and that it was
so designated on the maps of the city in 1803. If not, the inference is all the stronger that the whole space south of the
line of the lots was intended to be the property and for the
use of the public, Barclay v. I!owell's Lessees, 6 Pet. 498.
In Rowan7's Pxs. v. Portland, 8 B. Monroe, 232, 239, that
inference was declared to be the legal result of such a state
of facts.
"It is quite certain that such a space was designated on the
official map of the city as originally adopted, the division and
sale of the squares and lots being made in reference to it.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898..
Opinion of the Court.

the legal effect of that fact is we shall hereafter
inquire, and while we do not eonsider it t9 be qualified by the
circumstance set forth as to the actual history of the street as
made and used, theyperhaps suffioiently iccount for the doubt
and confusion ih which the questionaof right brought to issue in
this litigation seem for so long a period V' )ave been involved.
"The transaction between Notley Young and the public
authorities, as evidenced by the documents and circumstances
thus far.set forth, was equivalent in its result to a conveyance
by him to the United States in fee simple of all his land
described, with its appurtenances, and -a conveyance back to
him by the United States, of square No. 472, and to Greenleaf
of square No. 504, bounded and described as above set forth,
leaving in the United States an estate in fee simple, absolute
for all purposes, in the strip of land designated as Water
street, intervening between the line of the squares. as laid out
and the Potomac River." ,
It is earnestly uiged in the present case that the court in
that case did not have before- it the Dermott map, and was
not aware that said map was the one approved ky President
Washington on March 2, 1797. From this it is reasoned'that,
if the court had been informed that the Dermott map was the
real and only bfficial plan, and .had seen that Water street
was not laid out or designated upon it, a different conclusion
as to the ownership of Water street would have resulted.
It is by no means clear that the Dermott plan was not
before the court. If it was, as is now contended, the only
plan which was approved by President Washington' as the
official map, it would seem very singular that the able and
well-informed counsel who represented the respective parties
-inthat case did not think fit to put it in evidence, and make
it the subject of comment.
We are inclined to infer that the Dermott plan was the
very one referred to in the bill and answer in that case.
Thus, in the bill, in the portion above quoted, it was alleged,
in respect to Water street, that there was traced on the map
of the city "but a single line, denoting its general course and
direction;" and in the answer it is stated that the width of

-What

MORRIS v. U1ITED STATES.

269

Opinion of the Court.

the street was left undefined, because it constituted the whole
space between the line of the squares and the river.
An inspection of the IDermott plan discloses such a single
line, extending along the entire river front on both the Potomac and the Eastern Branch, and outside of the line of the
squares and lots.
But the Ellicott plan, as engraved in Philadelphia, discloses
a well-defined space, of varying width, between the river and
the line of the lots and squares, extending along the entire
front of the city.
There are expressions used in the opinion of the court, in that
case, that show that the attention and consideration of the court
were not restricted to a single map. Thus, on page 679, after
adverting to the order of the Commissioners on Mviarch 22,1796,
directing that Water street should be laid out eighty feet in
width, the court adds "that it was so designated on the maps
of the city in 1803" - evidently referring to the King plan.
Even if so unlikely a fact did exist, namely, that in the case
in 109 U. S. the Dermott map was not considered,, we think
that the conclusion of the court would not have been changed
by its inspection. It was not understood to set aside or dispense with the important features of the previous maps. It, no
doubt, having been made after most of the surveys had been
returned, more accurately comported with the lots, squares and
streets as laid out, than the previous plans. But, as we have
seen, it wa not itself complete. The contention that it omitted
Water street, with the intention of thereby renouncing the
city's claim to a street on the river, does not impress us as sustained by the evidence. The preceding plans exhibited a
space for such a street, and the succeeding plans, both that of
King in 1803, and that of Elliott, adopted by the city councils
and approved by President Van Buren in 1839, rebogn'ize and,
in part, define Water street. The Dermott plan itself exhibits
the line of a space outside of the line of the squares and lots,
and that portion of such space that lies on the Eastern Branch
is marked on the Dermott plan as Water street.
The latest reference to the maps that we are pointed to in
the reports of this court is in-Patchv. WAito, 117 U. S. 210, 221,

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

where Mr. Justice Woods said: "The devise clearly and without uncertainty designates a lot on Ninth street, between I
and K streets, well known on the map of the city of Washington, whose metes, bounds and area are definitely fixed, platted
and recorded. The map referred to was approved by President Washington in 1792 and recorded in 179-. Thousands
of copies of it have been engraved and printed. All conveyances of real estate in the city made since it was put on the record
refer to it; it is one of the muniments of title to all the public and private real estate in the city of Washington, and it
is probably better known than any document on record in
the District of Columbia. The accuracy of the description of
the lot devised is, therefore, matter of common knowledge, of
which the court might even take judicial notice."
It is true that in that case there was no controversy respecting the authenticity of the city maps, and that the. expressions
quoted are found in a dissenting opinion. Still, such statements made in a closely contested case, where the parties
*were represented by leading counsel, residents of the city of
Washington, may fairly be referred to as a contribution to
the history of the city maps.
Without protracting the discussipn, we think, considering
the reasonable probability, that a public street or thoroughfare would be interposed between the lots and squares and the
navigable river; the language and history of the acts of Mary'land referred to.; the agreements between the original proprietors; the deeds to the trustees; the subsequent transactions
between the property holders and the Commissioners; the
regulations affecting the use of wharves and docks, published
by the Commissioners; the several acts of Congress conferring
jurisdiction upon the city over the adjacent waters; the several city maps and plans, beginning with that of L'Enfant,
sent by President Washington to Congress in 1791, and ending with that of Elliott, approved by President Van Buren in
1839 ; and the views expressed on the subject in previous deci-sions of this court, that the conclusion is warranted, that, from
.the first conception'of the Federal City, the establishment of
a public street, bounding the city on the south, and to be

MORRIS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

known as Water street, was intended, and that. such intention
has never been departed from.
With this conclusion reached, it follows that the holders of
lots and squares abutting on the line of Water street are not
entitled to riparian rights; nor are they entitled to rights of
private property in the waters or" the-reclaimed lands lying
between Water street and the navigable channels of the river,
unless they can show valid grants to the same from Congress,
or from' the city under authority from Congress, or such a
long protracted and notorious possession and enjoyment of
defined parcels of land as to justify a court, under the
doctrine of prescription, in inferring grants.
4. With these results in view, we shall now proceed to
examine the remaining claims.
The Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company was incorporated
in 1824 by concurrent acts of the legislatures of Virginia and
Maryland. The object of the company was the construction
of a navigable canal from the tide water of the Potomac to
the Ohio River.
By an act 'approved- March 3, 1825, c. 52, 4 Stat. 101, Congress enacted "that the act of the legislature of the State of
Virginia, entitled 'An act incorporating the Chesapeake and
Ohio Canal Company,' be, and the same is hereby, ratified
and confirmed, so far as may be necessary for the purpose of
enabling any company that may hereafter be formed, by
the authority of said act of incorporation, to carry into effect
the provisions thereof in the*District of Columbia, within the
exclusive juiisdiction of the United States, and no further." "'
That portion of the canal which lies within the boundaries
of the city of Washington extends from Twenty-seventh street
in a southeasterly direction to Seventeenth street, and appears
to have been open for navigation in the latter part of 1835.
This part of the canal was wholly constructed north of the
street designed to run between the squares nearest to the river
front and the .river -itself. The land occupied by the canal
company within the city belonged in part to individual owners
and in part to the United States.
Entering the city so long after the adoption of the several

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

maps and plans, the canal company must be deemed to have
been aware of their contents, and to have been subjected thereto, except in particulars in which the company may have been
released or exempted therefrom by the acts of Congress, or
by the authorities of the city. Consequently the company
cannot validly claim riparian rights as appurtenant to those
lots or parts of lots which the company purchased from
individual owners who held lots north of Water street.
Having themselves, as we have seen, no riparian rights, such
owners could not convey or impart them to the canal
company.
But it is contended, on behalf of the canal company, that
riparian rights attached at least to those portions of their land
which they acquired by virtue of the legislation of Congress,
and which were located on the margin of the Potomac River.
If it was, indeed, the persistent purpose of the founders of
the city to erect and maintain a public street or thoroughfare
along the river front, it would be surprising to find so reasonable a policy subverted by legislation on: the part of Congress
in favor of this canal company. To justify such a contention
we should expect to be pointed to clear and unmistakable
enactments to that effect. But the acts of Congress relied
on are of a quite different character. Let us briefly examine
them.
There was, in the first place, the act of March 3, 1825,
heretofbre quoted, wherein the act of Virginia incorporating
the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company is ratified and confirmed so far as may be necessary for the purpose of enabling
any company that might thereafter be formed under the
-authority of that act to carry into effect the provisions
thereof in the District of Columbia within the exclusive jurisdiction of the United States, and no further. Then followed
the act of May 23, 1828, c. 85, 4 Stat. 292, authorizing the
connection of lateral canals, constructed under authority of
-aryland and Virginia, with the main stem of the canal
within the District. By the act of May 21, 1828, c. 86, 4
Stat. 293, Congress authorized a subscription by the United
States for ten thousand shares of the capital stock of the

MORRIS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

company, and made provision for the elevation and width of
the section below the Little Falls, so as to provide a supply of
water for lateral canals or the extension of the Chesapeake
and Ohio Canal by the United States.
It may be conceded that it is clear from these enactments
that Congress contemplated the location of the Chesapeake
and Ohio Canal along the bank of the Potomac River within
the District of Columbia; and it may be further conceded
that Congress acquiesced in the route and termifius of the
canal selected by the company. But it does not f6llow from
such concessions, or from anything contained in the legislation
referred to, that Congress was withdrawing from the city of
Washington its rights in Water street, or was granting to the
canal company a fee simple in the river margin with appurtenant riparian rights.
It is further urged, that by the act of March 3, 1837, c. 51,
Congress adopted and enacted as a law of the United States
the provision of the Virginia act of February 27, 1829, in the
following terms: "That whenever it might be necessary to
form heavy embankments, piers or moles, at the mouths of
creeks or along the river shore, for basins or otlier purposes,.
and the president and directors may deem it expedient to give
a greater strength: to the same by widening them and constructing them of the most solid materials, the ground so
formed for such useful purpose may by them, when so improved, be sold out or let for a term of years, as they may deem
most expedient for the company, on such conditions as may
direct the application of the proceeds thereof -to useful pur
poses, and at the same time repay the necessary expense of
the formation of such banks, piers or moles; provided, that
this power shall, in no case be exercised so as to injure the
navigation of the canal;" that by the second section of the
act of 1837, penalties were declared against any person who
should maliciously injure the canal or its necessary embankments, tow paths, bridges or drains; and, by the third section,
enacted that "all condemnations of lands for the use. and
purposes of said canal company, which have heretofore been
made by the marshal of the District or any lawful deputy
VOL. CLXXIv-18

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

marshal, shall be as valid as though the same had been situated
in the State of, Maryland, and had been condemned in pursuance of the laws of said State through the action and agency
of a sheriff of any of the counties of said State."
As the canal had been constructed and opened for navigation within the limits of the city before the passage of this
act of 1837, and as it is'not claimed. or shown that any embankments, piers or moles were constructed on the route of
the canal, within the city, since the passage of the act, it thus
appears that no rights were acquired by the company on the
strength of the act, which are interfered with by the improvements projected by Congress.
It was, indeed, alleged in paragraph 16 of the company's
answer that "the company did construct a gate house at the
foot of Seventeenth street, and a pier, embankment or mole
at the foot of Seventeenth street, and extending into the Potomac River; and that said gate house and the made land appurtenant thereto, and part or all of said pier, embankment
or mole at the foot of Seventeenth street, as the same now
exists, are the property of this defendant."
Without stating the particulars of the evidence on this part
of the subject, it is sufficient to say that it clearly appears that
the basin at the mouth of Tiber Creek, at the foot of Seventeenth street, was constructed by the corporation of the city of
Washington, and that the pier or embankment, mentioned in
the company's answer, did not extend into the Potomac River,
but into this basin, and that the gate house referred to was
erected under a permission granted by the city council by an
act approved May 20, 1837, in the following terms:
"That permission be and is hereby granted to the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company to use and occupy so much of
-the northwest corner of the wharf erected at the southern
termination of Seventeenth street west as they may deem
necessary, for the purpose of erecting thereon a house for the
keeper of the river lock at that place: Pravidec, The extent
thereof shall not exceed sixty feet measured south and thirty
feet measured east from -the northwest corner of the said
wharf."

MORRIS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

There is nothing in this or in any other legislation on the
part of the city council which can be construed as conferring
on the company any rights of property in the land intervening, according to the plans of the city, between the canal
and the river.
The fair meaning and effect of the legislation of Congress
and of the city respecting the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal
Company were to permit that company to construct and maintain its canal within the limits of the city, and to approve its
selection of the route and terminus. The purpose of the construction of the basin at the foot of Seventeenth street was to
provide a commodious harbor, in which were to meet and be
exchanged the commerce of the Potomac River and of the
Chesapeake and Ohio Canal. But we 1ind, in such legislation,
no intimation, much less any clear and distinct declaration,
of an intention to set aside the existing plans of the city in
respect to its river front.
We do not deem it necessary to enter upon a consideration
of the exact nature of the company's title to the lands occupied by its canal within the limits of the city, nor to discuss the legal consequences of a failure by the company to
occupy and use such lands for canal purposes. Different conclusions might be reached in respect to lands derived by purchase or condemnation and public lands granted for the public
purpose of a navigable highway. But such questions are not
before us.
It is sufficient now to hold that the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company does not, either as to lots procured from private
owners, or as to lands occupied under the permission of Congress and of the city authorities, own or.possess riparian rights
along the line of its canal within the limits of the city.
Accordingly, the decree of the court below in respect to the
claim of the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company is affirmed.
It was, however, found by the court below that there is a
small strip of land north of Water street and owned by the
Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company, which lies within the
limits of the government improvement, the value of which
was determined by the court below at the sam of $353,88,

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

As the United States have not appealed from this part of the
decree, and as the Chesapeake and Ohio" Canal Company has
not,excepted'to the finding of the value, it follows that the
canal company is entitled to that sum out of the appropriation by Congress as compensation for ,the occupation by the
Government of such strip of land.
5. The next class of claimants consists of lot owners be
tween Seventeenth street west and Twenty-seventh street west.
All these lots, with respect to which riparian rights are
claimed, lie to the north of Water street, which intervenes
between them and the channels of the river. Under the
principles already e6tablished, no riparian rights belonged to
these lots. But some portions of the lots are embraced within the limits of the government plan of reclamation, and for
such portions the court below awarded compensation. All
of these claimants, save two, have accepted and received the
compensation.
Richard J.Beall and the heirs and trustees of William
Easby have refused to accept the compensation so awarded
them, and have appealed. Their asserted grounds of appeal
are, first, their alleged rights to riparian and wharfage privileges on the Potomac River as appurtenant to their lots, and,
second, the insufficiency of the compensation allowed by the
court below.
An effort is made to distinguish the case of these lots from
that of the lots east of Seventeenth street by referring to a
book marked "Register of Squares," produced from among
the records of the city, and wherein squares 63 and 89 are
Bounded on the north by Water street and on the south by
the Potomac River, and square 129 is bounded on the north
by B street and on the south by the Potomac River.
It was the opinion of the court below that there was a lack
of evidence to prove that the registers of squares were contemporaneous and original books which it was theduty of
the Commissioners to keep, that the entries were6 nt.in their
handwriting, nor in that of any person whose handwriting is
proved, and that they have not'the quality of a public record.
We agree with that court in thinking that, in no point of

MORRIS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

view, on the evidence adduced in this case, can effect be given
to these registers of squares .as contradicting or overriding the
plans of the city adopted by the President, wherein, as *e
have seen, the squares in question were bounded by streets
interposed between them and the channels of the river.
The second complaint on behalf of these appellants is of
the insufficiency of the amount allowed them by way of compensation.
We have read the evidence on this subject contained in the
record, and have been surprised by the discrepaficy in the
values put on these parcels of land by the respective witnesses
-a
discrepancy so wide that we find it impossible to reconcile the testimony, or to reasonably compromise between the
extremes. In such circumstances we think our proper course
'is to adopt the conclusions of the learned judge who disposed
of this matter in the court below. Acquainted, as he presumably was, with the locality of the lands and with the
character and experience of the numerous witnesses, his judgment would be much safer than any we could independently
form. The fact that the larger number of those concerned
have acquiesced in the valuation and accepted the award is
not without significance. The claim of Mr. Beall that he
should be allowed. interest or rental value for his proper.y
which was taken possession of by the United States in 1882,
seems entitled to further consideration by the court below.
The amount awarded to the estate of William Easby was
made payable in the decree of the court below to William
Easby's heirs. The estate was represented in the appeal to
this court by Rose L. Easby and Fanny B. Easby, styling
themselves trustees of the estate of said William Easby, and
by Wilhelmina M. Easby-Smith, who is described as one of
the heirs at law-and administratrix de bonis non oum testamento
annexo of William Easby, deceased. These parties appear by
the record to have taken a joint appeal, but they are represented by different counsel. It is now claimed by the counsel
representing Rose L. Easby and Fanny B. Easby, alleged
trustees of the estate, that the decree awarding payment to
William Easby's heirs should be amended so as to make the

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

award payable to said alleged trustees. It is said that they were
the only parties to the record, representing said estate, at the
time the said award was made, and apprehensions are expressed
-that if the award is distributed to the different heirs of William Easby injustice will be done the alleged trustees, because
it will enable said heirs to receive their proportionate shares
directly from the Government without being compelled to
share in the expenses of the suit. This controversy does not
seem to have been dealt with in the court below, where it
properly belongs, and to which, affirming the award in other
respects, we shall remit the question.
6. The next claim is one made by the descendants of Robert
Peter to parcels of land included in the government plan of
reclamation, and situated near the Observatory grounds.
In June, 1791, Robert Peter executed and delivered a conveyance of his lands to Beall and Gantt in trust that the Federal City should be laid out upon them and other lands similarly conveyed by other proprietors..
Robert Peter was one of the signers of the agreement of
March 13, 1791, hereinbefore mentioned, and the terms of his
conveyance to Beall and Gantt were substantially similar to
those used in the conveyances of David Burns and Notley
Young. There therefore passed by this deed to the trustees
his entire title to the main land and all his riparian rights
appurtenant thereto.
It is now claimed that, under the terms of the agreement
and of the conveyance, such streets, squares and lots should
be laid out as the President might direct, and conveyances be
made of them to the United States, and the residue of said lots
should be divided between the United States and Robert Peter,
and the lots so divided to him, together with any part of said
land which should not have been laid out in the city, should
be conveyed to Robert Peter in fee by the said trustees; and
it is further claimed that certain parts of said land were never
laid out as part of the city, nor conveyed either to the United
States or Robert Peter, and that the equitable title to such
parts, with the riparian rights appurtenant thereto, is in his
heirs, for which they are now entitled to compensation. It is

MORRIS v. UNITED STA.TVS.
Opinion of. the Court.

not dexiied that, in pursuance of the agreement and conveyance, the city was laid out, and its streets, squares, lots and
boundaries defined in the several maps or plans approved by
the President and adopted by the city authorities. Nor has
any evidence been adduced that byany act or declaration of
the President, or of any one in authority under him, was any
portion of the lands conveyed by Peter and the other proprietors to Beall and Gantt, trustees, ever excluded from the city..
Nor is it denied that there was a division of lots between Peter
and the Commissioners in pursuance of the agreement and
conveyance.
But reliance is placed upon the correspondence between
Peter and the Commissioners tending to show that lands
with riparian privileges remained undivided.
In June, 1798, Nicholas King, in behalf of Mr. Peter,
addressed a letter to the Commissioners, representing that it
was "an object highly interesting to Mr. Peter to know the
bounds, dimensions and privileges of those parts of the city
generally called water property, and assigned to him on the
division.

.

.

The square south of No. 12 has not yet

been divided between said Peter and the Commissioners.
The square No. 22 as at present laid off and divided
with the Commissioners does not extend to the channel by
several hundred feet. If another square be introduced to the
south of it, that square will be covered to a small depth with
water, and the proprietors thereof will want earth to wharf
and fill it up. with. It will perhaps be best therefore to redivide square No. 22 and attach the low ground to it."
Replying on June 28, 1798, the Commissioners said:
"When the Commissioners have proceeded to divide a
square with a city proprietor, whether water or other property, they have executed all the powers vested in them to
act on the subject. It appertains to the several courts of the
States and of the United States to determine upon the rights
which such division may give; any decision by us on the subject would be extrajudicial and nugatory; of this, no doubt,
Mr. Peter, if applied to, would have informed you. JIrith 'espoeot to 8quare ..Yo..22, we do notconceive that it i8 entitled to

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

any water privilege, as a street intervenes between it and the
water; but as there is some high ground between Water
street and the water, we have no objection to- laying out a
new square between Water street and the channel, and divide
such squarewhen laid out, so as to make it as beneficial to
Mr. Peter and the public as circumstances will admit."
This suggestion of the Commissioners, to lay out and divide
a square south of Water street, was never acted on. It is
plain that the Commissioners would have had no right to disregard the action of the President in establishing Water street
as the southern boundary of the city. It also appears from
the letter of Mr. King that such a proposed square would
have been under the waters of the Potomac, and therefore
consisted of territory belonging to the United States as sucoessor to the sovereignty of Maryland, and not to them as
grantees of Mr. Peter.
In November, 1798, Mr. Peter, with other persons, as appears in the record, appealed to the President to have corrections made in the plan of the city, and used the following
language:
"We know your excellency will attend to the necessity of
defining what water privilege or right of wharfage is attached,
to the lots on the Eastern Branch, the Potomac River and Rock
Creek, also all such streets as are to be left in wharfing from
the shore to the channel of said waters, and the extent to
which those wharves are to be carried; and
what ground, so
made and filled up, shall be considered as subject'to occupancy
by buildings."
This memorial was referred by the President -to the Attorney General, Charles Lee, who, in an opinion dated January 7,
1799, advised against the application to make any departure
from the plans of the city already approved by the President.
In May, 1800, Mr. Peter and the Commissioners agreed
upon a division of square south of square No. 12, -by which
four of the lots were given to Peter, one of which faced on
Water street, and two others facing on Water street were
assigned to the United States ; and in a note attached to the
map of square No. 22, signed in 1800 by Nicholas King, as

MORRIS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

attorney for R. Peter, it is stated that the Commissioners conveyed to Robert Peter the lot No. 6 in square No. 22, in consideiation of a balance due him by the public of square feet
in the division of lots.
Since the year 1800 to the time of the institution of this
suit no attempt to impeach this settlement, and no assertion
of title to the land south of Water street, by the descendants,
of Robert Peter, appear to have been made.
The decree of the court below in respect to this claiipi is
affirmed'
7. The next class of appellants consists of those who claim
rights of property on the river front between the Long Bridge
and the Arsenal. They all derive title under Notley.Young,;
and the parcels of land t.hey claim are all situated south bf
Water street, and fall within the limits of the government
improvement.
In so far as the arguments advanced in support of these
claims are based on the alleged abandonment of Water street
in the Dermott plan, and on the.legal consequences supposed
to follow from the fact that the trustees never formally conveyed the streets or public reservations, they are disposed of
by the conclusions already reached.
But it is further contended that, even if we conclude that
Water street was designed to be the southern boundary of
the city, and that the title to said street passed to the United
States, yet the facts disclose such equities between the United
States, on the one hand, and the private claimants, on the
other, as to -justify a decree in favor of these appellants.
Those equities are said to arise out of grants made by the
United States and the city authorities, from time to time, in
respect to wharves and water fronts, jinder which the appellants and their predecessors acted, and out of the long lapse
of time during which they have been in undisturbed possession.
In considering the facts relied on by the appellants we must
not lose sight of the conclusions already reached, namely, that
Notley Young, by his agreement with the other proprietors
and by his conveyance to the trustees, had parted with his

-

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

entire title to the lands described and to the riparian rights
appurtenant thereto; that all the lots subsequently conveyed
to Notley Young were subject to the plans of the city establishing Water street, and did not reinvest him with his original riparian rights.
Hence these appellants, claiming under Kotley Young, can
only rely, in their. contention now under consideration, on
transactions that have taken place since the division between
the Commissioners and 1otley Young; and these we shall
now briefly examine.
Our attention is first directed to the twelfth section of the
3-Maryland act of December 19, 1791, Kilty's Laws Maryland,
c. 45, in the following terms:
"That the Commissioners aforesaid, for the time being, or
any two of them, shall, from time to time, until Congress shall
exercise the jurisdiction and government within said territory,
have power to license the building of wharves in the waters
of the Potomac and the Eastern Branch, adjoining the said
city, of the materials, in the manner and of the extent, they
may judge durable, convenient and agreeing with general
order; but no license shall be granted to one to build a wharf
before the land of another, nor shall any wharf be built in the
said waters without license as aforesaid; and if any wharf
shall be built without such license or different therefrom, the
same is hereby declared a common nuisaie."
Here we may pause to observe that the only power given
to the Commissioners was to grant licenses, from time to
time, and until Congress should assume and exercise its jurisdiction within the territory, and it was declared that any
wharf built in the waters of the Potomac, without such
license or in disregard of its provisions, was declared to be
a common nuisance.
The licenses contemplated therefore were temporary, and
liable to be withdrawn by Congress on assuming jurisdiction.
Such legislation certainly cannot be relied on as either conferring or recognizing rights to erect and maintain permanent
wharves within the waters of the Potomac and the Eastern
Branch.

MORRIS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

On July 20, 1795, the Commissioners published the follow
ing regulations respecting wharves:
The board of Commissioners, in virtue of the powers
vested in them by the act of the Maryland legislature to
license the building of wharves in the city of Washington,
and to regulate the materials, the manner and the extent
thereof, hereby make known the following regulations:
"That the proprietors of water lots are permitted to wharf
and build as far out into the river Potomac and the Eastern
Branch as they think convenient and proper, not injuring or
interrupting the channels or navigation of the said waters,
leaving a space, wherever the general plan of streets in the
city requires it, of equal breadth 'With those streets, which if
made by an individual holding the adjacent property shall be
subject to his separate occupation and use, until the public
shall reimburse the expense of making such street; and when
no street or streets intersect said wharf, to leave a space of
sixty feet for a street at the termination of every three
hundred feet of ground. The buildings on said wharves to
be subject to the general regulations for buildings in the
city of Washington as declared by the President. Wharves
to be built of such materials as the proprietors may elect."
It will be seen that, in publishing these regulations, the
Commissioners claimed no authority in themselves, but professed only to act in virtue of the act of Maryland, and must
therefore be understood as having intended to grant temporary
licenses, subject to the will of Congress when it should take
jurisdiction.
It appears in the record that 1otley Young himself procured from the Commissioners a license to build a wharf on
the Potomac River, and that the wharf appears as an existing
structure upon the map of 1797. The board of Commissioners was abolished by an act of Congress approved May
1, 1802, 2 Stat. 175, by the second section whereof it was
enacted:
"That the affairs of the city of Washington, which have
heretofore been under the care and superintendence of the
said Commissioners, shall hereafter be under the direction of

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

a superintendent to be appointed by and under the control of
the President of the United States; and the said superintendent is hereby invested with all the powers, and shall hereafter perform all the duties, which the said Commissioners
are now vested with, or are required to perform by or in
virtue of any act of Congress, or any act of the general
assembly of Maryland, or any deed or deeds of trust from
the original proprietors of the lots of said city, or in other
manner whatsoever."
This was followed by the act of May 3, 1802, entitled
"An act to incorporate the inhabitants of the city of Washingeon, in the District of Columbia." 2 Stat. c. 53. In it was
given to the corporation "full power and authority to regulate the stationing, anchorage and mooring of vessels," but
no authprity to license or regulate the building of wharves
is given. Then came the act of February 24, 1804, 2 Stat. c.
14,. wherein was given to the city councils power "to preserve the navigation of the Potomac and Anacostia Rivers
adjoining the city; to erect, repair and regulate public
wharves, and to deepen docks and basins."
By the act of May 15, 1820, 3 Stat. 583, c. 104, entitled "An
act to incorporate the inhabitants of the city of Washington,
and to repeal all acts heretofore passed for that purpose," the
corporation was empowered "to preserve the navigation of
the Potomac and Anacostia Rivers adjoining the city; to
erect, repair and regulate public wharves; to regulate the
manner of erecting and the rates of wharfage at private
wharves; to regulate the stationing, anchorage and mooring
of vessels."
On July 29, 1819, Burch's Dig. 126, the city council
enacted:
"SEo. 1. That the owners of private wharves or canals and
canal wharves be obliged to keep them so in repair as to prevent injury to the navigation.
"SEc. 2. That no wharf shall hereafter be built, within this
corporation, without the plan being first submitted to the
mayor, who, with a joint committee from the two boards of
the city council, shall examine the same, and if it shall appear

MORRIS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

to their satisfaction that no injury could result to the navigation from the erection of such wharf, then, and in that case,
it shall be the duty of the mayor to issue a written permissionfor the accomplishment of the object, which permit shall express how near such wharf shall approach the channel."
By acts of councils approved January 8, 1831, c. 81, it was
enacted :
"SEc. 1. That it shall not be lawful for any person or persons to build or erect any wharf or wharves within the limits
of this corporation who shall not first submit the plan of such
wharf or wharves to the mayor, who, with a joint committee
from the two boards of the city council, shall examine the
same; and if it shall appear to their satisfaction that no injury
could result to the navigation from the erection of such wharf
or wharves, then, in that case, it shall be the duty of the
mayor to issue a written permission for the accomplishment of
the object, which permit shall express how near such wharf or
wharves shall approach the channel and at what angle they
shall extend from the street on which they are erected."
The record discloses a continuous series of acts and joint
resolutions of the city councils, on the subject of improving
the navigation of the Potomac River, the erection and repair
of sea walls on the fiver, granting special permission to named
persons to build wharves in front of such walls. The last we
shall notice is the act of March 23, 1863, entitled "An act authorizing the mayor to lease wharf sites on the Potomac
River," etc. By this act the mayor was authorized to lease
for any term of years, not exceeding ten, wharf sites in front
of any sea wall theretofore built'by the corporation, or in
front of any sea wall that might thereafter be built in pursuance of any enactment for that purpose; and it was provided that at the expiration of ten years, or sooner, the said
sites and all wharf improvements thereon should revert to the
corporation, and that if the occupants should fail to keep said
wharves in good repair and to comply with all the provisions
of the act, the contract should cease, and the mayor should
notify them to vacate-the premises within ten days. And this
was followed by similar acts in 1865, 1867, 1870 and 1871, all

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

asserting power by the corporation over the wharves on Water
street.
We think it impossible to reconcile the succession of acts of
Congress and of the city councils with the theory that the
wharves south of Water street were erected by individuals in
the exercise of private rights of property in defined parcels of
land to them belonging. The legislation clearly signifies that
during the entire history of the city Congress and the city
authorities have claimed and exercised jurisdiction for public
purposes over the territory occupied by these wharves; and
that jurisdiction seems to have been recognized and submitted to by the appellants and their predecessors in many
instances in which the evidence discloses the nature of the
transactions.
It is earnestly urged by.the learned counsel of the appellants
that possession and enjoyment by successive occupants for so
long a period warrant the presumption of a grant, and authori-ties are cited to show that such presumptive grant may arise
.as well from the Crown or the State as from an individual.
As between individuals, this doctrine is well settled and valuable; and it may be that, in respect to the ordinary public lands
held by the Government for the purposes of sale, occupation
and settlement, there might exist a possession so long, adverse
and exclusive, as to justify a court of equity or a jury in presuming a grant.. But where, as in the present case, the lands
and waters concerned are owned by the Government in trust
for public purposes, and are withheld from sale by the Land
Department, it seems more than doubtful whether an adverse
possession, however long continued, would create a title.
However, under the facts disclosed in this record, it is unnecessary to determine such questions; for, as we have seen, at
no time have Congress and the city authorities renounced or
faile4 to exercise jurisdiction and control over the territory
occupied by these wharves and docks.
An effort is made to distinguish the claim of Edward M.
Willis, as alienee of A. I. Harvey, defendant, to land lying
between Thirteen-and-a-half street and Maryland avenue, and
fronting on the Potomac, by the circumstance that .Water

MORRIS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

street has never been actually constructed and opened as a
thoroughfare in front of this land. But it is not perceived
that the failure of the city heretofore to open Water street
could create any title in Willis to the land and water lying
south of the territory appropriated for that street. His occupancy, or that of his predecessors, of such land for wharfing
or other purposes may be presumed to have been with the
consent of the city authorities, but could not, under the facts
shown in this record, avail to raise the presumption of a grant.
Referring to a similar claim this court said, in Potomac
Steamboat Co. v. Uper Potomac Steamboat Co., 109 U. S. 672,
692:
"Disputes undoubtedly arose, some quite early, not so much as
to what rights belonged to ' water lots,' nor as to what properly
constituted a.' water lot,"but, in regard to particular localities,
whether that character attached to individual squares and lots.
In part, at least, the uncertainty arose from the fact that the
plan of the city, as exhibited on paper, did not accurately
correspond at all points with the lines as surveyed and marked
on the land. Complaints of that description, and of designed
departures from the plan, seem to have been made. It is also
true, we think, that mistakes aros6, as perhaps in the very case of the lots on the north side of Water street, owing to the
fact that the street existed only on paper, and for a long time
remained an unexecuted project; property appearing to be
riparian, because lying on the water's edge, which, when the
street was actually made, had lost its river front. They were
thought to be ' water lots,' because appearing to be so in fact
but were not so in law, because they were bounded by the
street, and not by the river." Barclay v. Howe'8 L.es8ee, 6
Pet. 498, 505; B0o8ton V. Lecra'w, 17 How. 426.
There are also defendants who claim the right to hold
certain wharf properties on the Potomac between the Long
Bridge and the Arsenal, under licenses in writing issued by
the Chief of Engineers for the time being, authorizing the
erection of wharves. The power to grant 'such licenses is
attributed to the Chief of Engineers as the successor of the
office of Commissioner of Public Buildings under the act of

OCTOBER TERX, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

Mar6bh, 1867. It was the opinion of the court below that,
under the legislation that preceded the act of 1867, jurisdiction
with respect to private wharves had been conferred upon the
authorities of the city, and that hence the Chief Engineer was
without any lawful authority to issue such licenses. In so
holding the court below followed the decision of the Supreme
Court of the District in the case of District of CoZumbia v.
Johnson',3 Mackey, 120.
We see no reason to doubt the soundness of this conclusion, though, for the reasons already given, even if the power
to grant such licenses had belonged to the Chief of Engineers,
they would not have vested any rights in fee in the land and
water south of Water street in these appellants.
The contention, on behalf of the Washington Steamboat
Company, as successor to the title of the Potomac Ferry
Company by a purchase on June 1, 1881, that the act of
Congress of July 1, 1864, creating the latter company,
operated as a release of the title of the Government to such
land as that company might acquire for its proper purposes,
we cannot accept.' The legal purport of that enactment
was, as we interpret it, to authorize the ferry company to
purchase and hold such real estate as should be necessary
to carry its chartered powers into effect, but was not intended as a grant of land on the part of Congress, or as a legislative admission of the title of private parties. The power
to purchase land thereby conferred had room to operate on
land no'rth of Water street and on land situated in the State
of Virginia.
While, howeVer, our conclusion is that -no riparian rights
in the waters of the Potomac River belong to the owners
of lots lying north of Water street, and that no presumption of grants in fee can arise, in these cases, from
actual occupation of lands and water south of that street,
we do not understand that it is the intention of Congress,
in exercising its jurisdiction over the territory in question,
and in directing the institution of these proceedings, to take
for public use, without -compensation, the private property
of individuals situated wfthin the lines of the government

MORRIS v.' UNITED STATES.

289

Opinion of the Court.

improvement, even where such property may lie south of
Water street. Those who, relying, some of them,.on expres's
and others on implied licenses from the city .authorities, have
erected and maintained expensive wharves and warehouses
for the accommodation of the public, are not to be treated,
as we reid the will of Congress, as mere trespassers.
That such is not the intention of Congress we infer not
merely from the fact that, by the act of 1886, the inquiry
was submitted to a court of equity and not to a court of law,
but'fro&t the express language of the act. Thus, by the first
section, it is made "the duty of the Attorney General of the
-United States to institute, as soon as may be, in the Supreme
Court of the District of Columbia, a suit against all persons
and corporations who may have or pretend to have any right,
title, claim or interest in any part of the land or water in the
District of Columbia within the limits of the city of Washington, or exterior to said limits and in front thereof toward the
channel of the Potomac River, and composing any part of
the land or water affected by the improvements of the Potomac River or its ifats in charge of the Secretary of War,
for the purpose of establishing and making clear the right
of the United States thereto." The second section provides
"that the suit mentioned in the preceding section shall be
in the-nature of a bill in equity, and there shall be made parties defendant thereto all persons and corporations who may
claim to have any such right, title or interest."
The third section provides that the cause "shall proceed
with all practicable expedition to a final determination by
the said court of all rights drawn in question therein; and
that the said court shall .havefull power and jurisdiction by
its decree to determine every question of right, title, interest
or claim arising in the premises, and to vacate, annul, set aside
or confirm any claim of any character arising or set forth in
the premises."
The fourth section provides that if, on the final hearing of
said cause, the said court "shall be of opinion that there exists
any right, title or interest in the land or water in this act mentioned in any person or corporation adverse to the complete
VOL. CLXXrV-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

and paramount right of the United States, the said court shall
forthwith and in a summary way proceed to ascertain the
value of any such right, title, interest or claim, exclusive of the
.value of any improvement to the property covered by such
right, title or interest made by or under the authority of the
United States, and report thereof shall be made to Congress."
It .may be well here to mention that it is disclosed in the
record that the wharves owned by the Potomac Steamboat
Company opposite square 472, and other wharves on the Potomac, were rented by the Government during the civil war,
and that rent was paid for them monthly by the Government
during a period of several years. It is not to be supposed that
the United States are now estopped by such conduct, but the
fact is worthy of mention as going to show that the Government did not regard those who owned the wharves, and to
whom the rent was paid, as trespassers, or that the structures
were an obstruction to navigation and unlawfully there.
Such recognition by the Government of a right on the part
of the wharf owners to receive rent, and the long period in
which Congress has permitted private parties to expend money
in the erection and repair of wharves and warehouses for the
accommodation of the public, may be well supposed to have
influenced Congress in providing for an equitable appraisement
of the value of interests or claims thus arising.
In the twelfth section of the bill of complaint the United
States "disclaim in this suit seeking to establish its title to any
of the wharves included in the area described in paragraph 3
of this bill, and claim title only to the land and water upon
'and in which said wharves are built, leaving the question of
the ownership of the wharves proper, where that is a matter
of dispute, to be decided in any other appropriate proceeding."
Apparently acquiescing in this allegation or disclaimer, the
appellants put in no evidence as to the value of their improvements, and sought no finding on that subject in the court be.
low, but stood, both there and in this court, on their claims of
absolute title.
An examination, however, of the language of the act of 1886,
hereinbefore. quoted, discloses that it was the plain purpose -f

MORRIS v. UNITED ST-TES.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Peckham, JJ.

Congress that the court should make "a final determination of
all rights drawn in question," and should "in a summary way
proceed to ascertain the value of any such right, title, interest
or claim."
We think it was not competent for the counsel of the respective parties to disregard this purpose of Congress and to
withhold a part of the controversy from the action of the
court.

It is not disclosed in this record whetrer it is the design of
the Government, on taking possession of the wharves and.
buildings belonging to the appellants, to continue them in the
use of the public or to supersede them by other improvements.
Whatever may be the course pursued in that respect, it should
not deprive the appellants of the right conferred upon them
by the act of Congress to have the value of their respective
rights, titles, interests or claims ascertained and awarded them.
As to the method to be pursued in valuing property of so
peculiar a character, the cases of The JifonongahelaNay. Co.
v. United States, 148 U. S. 312, and lletzel v. Baltimore &
Ohio Railroad,169 U. S. 26, may be usefully referred to.
While, therefore, we" afirm, the decree of the court below as
to the claims of the Marshall heirs, and as to the Kidwell
.patent,and as to the severaZ claims to riparianrights as
appurtenant to lots bounded on the south by Water street,
we remand th case to the court below for furtherproceedings in accordancewith this oyinion.

MR. JUsTIn WHITE, with whom concurred Mn. JusTICE PE KH.A,

dissenting.

The court holds that the owners of lots fronting on the
Potomac River, who are impleaded in this record, have no
riparian rights appurtenant or attached to such lots, and that
they never possessed rights of that description.
This conclusion rests primarily upon a finding of fact, that
is, that it was the intention of the founders of the city that a
street should bind the city on the entire water front, which
street should be the exclusive property of the publio, thus

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Peckham, JJ.

cutting off all the lot owners facing the river from connection
therewith. Applying to this premise of fact the legal principle that where property is separated from the water by
land belonging to some one else, no riparian rights attach to
the land of the former, it is held that the lot owners before
the court have no,riparian privileges which the Government
of the United States is in any way bound to respect.
Lest the precise theory may not be accurately conveyed
the clear statement thereof contained in the opinion is quoted,
viz.
"Our examination of the evidence has led us to the conclusion that it was the intention of the founders of the citr
of Washington to locate it upon the bank or shore of the
,Potomac River, and to bound it by a street or levee, so as to
secure to the inhabitants and those engaged in commerce free
access to the navigable water, and that such intention has
never been departed from."
Again, at the end of the review of the evidence following
the above extract, the court states as follows:
"The conclusion is warranted that, from the first conception of the Federal City, the establishment of a public street,
bounding the city on the south, and to be known as Water
street, ,vas intended, and that such intention has never beendeparted from.
"With this conclusion reached, it follows that the holders
of lots and squares abutting on the line of. Water street are
not entitled to riparian rights; nor are they entitled to rights
of private property in the waters or the reclaimed lands
lying between Water street and the navigable channels of the
river."
From the legal proposition that where property is separated
from a stream by land belonging to another person, such
property is not abutting property, and hence not entitled to
riparian rights, I do not dissent. I cannot, however, bring
my mind to the conclusion that it was ever contemplated in
'the foundation of the city of Washington that there should
be established a street on the water front so as to cut off the
riparian rights of the lot holders. On the contrary, my ex-

MORRIS v. UNITED STATES.

-

DiSsenting Opinion: White, Peckham, JJ.

amination of the record has forced me to the conclusion
that from the legislation by which the city of Washington
was founded, from the nature of the contracts made by the
owners of the land upon which the city is situated, and from
the subsequent statutory provisions relating to the foundation
of the city, and their practical execution, it was understood
and agreed that riparian rights should attach to the lots
fronting on the river, and that any proposed street actually
projected or which it was contemplated might ultimately be
established was designed to be subordinate to the riparian
rights of the lot holders, and was in nowise intended injuriously to impair or affect the same. It also, in my opinion,
clearly appears that this result was understood by the lot
owners, was contemplated by the founders, was approved by
legislation, and was sanctioned by a long course of administrative dealing, ripening into possession in favor of the lot
holders to such a degree that to now hold- that they are, not
entitled to riparian rights would, as I understand the record,
amount to a denial of obvious rights of property. Indeed,
to disregard the riparian rights of the lot owners as shown
by the record'it seems to me will be equivalent to confiscation, and that in reason it cannot be done without imputing
bad faith to the illustrious men who so nobly conceived and
so admirably executed the foundation of the Federal City.
Of course, I say this with the diffidence begotten from the
fact that the court takes a different view of the record, which
therefore admonishes me that, however firm may be my convictions on the subject, there is some reason which has escaped my apprehension.
Even i. it be conceded that the record established that the
intention of the founders was to bound the city towards the
water by a street which would separate the land of the lot
holders from the river, and that the fee of such street whs
to be in the public, such concession would not be conclusive
in this case. For the record, as I read it, establishes such conclusive equities arising from the conduct of the Government
in all its departments, in its dealings with the lot holders and
the grantees of the Government and those holding under them,

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Peckham, JJ.

as to conclusively estop the Government from now asserting
any real or supposed technical rule of law so as to cut off
rights of private property which the Government itself has
solemnly avouched, upon the faith of which persons have
dealt with it, and from which dealings the nation has reaped
an abundant reward.
Before approaching the facts I eliminate propositions which
seem irrelevant, and the consideration of which may serve to
confuse the issue. Let it be at once conceded, arguendo, as
found by the court, that whether riparian rights exist does
not depend upon deciding whether one or the other of the
particular maps or plans of the city is to be contr.olling. For
in my view of the record, the riparian rights of the lot holders
will be clearly shown to exist, whatever plan of the city may
be considered. For the purposes then of this dissent, it is not
at all questioned that the several plans of the city, referred
to in the.opinion of the court, are to be treated each as a progressive step in the evolution of the original conception of
the city, and therefore are each entitled to be considered without causing one to abrogate the efficacy of the other, except
where there is an essential conflict. It is also deemed unnecessary to refer to the events which led up to .the selection of
the sites of other cities, for instance Philadelphia, New Orleans,
Pittsburgh .and Cincinnati, decisions respecting which have
been referred to, because in my judgment the existence of the
riparian rights in the city of Washington depends upon the
proceedings and legislation with reference to the city of
Washington, and not to wholly dissimilar proceedings in relation to the foundation of other cities.
I come, then, to an examination of the record as to the
foundation of the city of Washington. In doing so-in order
to avoid repetition and subserve, as far as I can, clearness of
statement -the subject is divided into three distinct epochs:
First, that involving the conception of the city and the steps preparatory to its foundation, with the cessions by Maryland and
Virginia of sovereignty over the land which was to form the
Federal district, down to and including the 19th of December, 1791, when the general assembly of Maryland passed

MORkIS v. UNITED StLTES.
Dissenting Opiinion: White, Peckham, JJ.

an act ratifying the previous cession and conferring certain
powers upon the Commissiobers, etc.; second, the formative
period of the city, in which the initial steps taken in the period
just stated were in a large measure carried into execution, and
this embraces the period from the Maryland act of 1791 down
to and including.the actual transfer and establishment of the
seat of government in the city of Washington; and, third, the
events subsequent to the last-stated period.
1. Events connected with the conception of the cit and the
se3ps prepearatoryto its foundation down to and including the
8tatute of HarTlandof December 19, 1791.
The cessions by Maryland and Virginia, in 1788 and 1789,
of the territory intended for the seat of government of the
United States need not be recapitulated, as they are fully
stated in the opinion of the court. The acceptance by Congress, in 1790, of the cessions just mentioned is also stated
fully in the opinion of the court. It is important, however,
in considering this, to bear in mind a few salient facts: First,
that whilst accepting the cessions, it was provided that the
seat of the Federal Government should not be removed to the
proposed capital until more than ten years thereafter, that is,
the first Monday of December in the year 1800; second, that
"until the time fixed for the removal thereto," and until Congress should by law otherwise provide, the operation of the
laws of the State within the district should not be affected by
the acceptance by Congress; third, whilst the act empowered
the President to appoint three Commissioners, who should,
under his direction, define and limit the district, and conferred
upon the Commissioners authority to purchase or accept such
quantity of land as the President might deem proper and to
provide suitable buildings for the occupation of Congress and
of the President and for the pilblic offices of the Government,
no appropriation.was contained in the act for these essential
purposes. On the contrary; the only means provided by the
act was the authority conferred to accept grants of money or
land for the purposes desighated in the act.
The controversy which preceded the selection by Congress
of the .district ceded by Virginia and Maryland, in order to

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Peckham, J.

establish therein the capital of the nation, is portrayed in the
opinion of the court, and, indeed, if it were not, it is mirrored
in-the provisions of the act of acceptance already referred to.
For, weighing those provisions, the conclusion cannot be escaped that an acceptance by Congress which left the territory
ceded under the control of the ceding States for a period of
ten years, and made no provision whatever, by appropriation
of money, for the establishment of the city, affixed to the act
of acceptance a provisional character depending upon the successful accomplishment by Washington of the plan for the
foundation of the capital which he had so fervently advocated.
In other words, that the accepting act devolved upon President Washington the arduous duty of bringing into being,
within ten years, the establishment of the capital and of
securing the means for constructing therein all the necessary
buildings for the use of the Government, without the appropriation of one dollar of the public money. To the great
responsibility thus imposed upon him, Washington at once
addressed himself with that intelligence and foresight which
characterized his every act. On January 17, 1791, he appointed as the Commissioners to execute the provisions of the
act of Congress, Thomas Johnson, Daniel Carroll and David
Stuart. The first two were owners of land within the limits
of the proposed city. Mr. Johnson, after his designation
as a Commissioner, was, in 1791, appointed an Associate
Justice of this c6urt, and although he qualified as such, he
still continued to serve as Commissioner during and until
after he had resigned his judicial office.
By the spring of 1791 the President had finally determined
upon the precise situation of the proposed capital, locating it
on the banks of the Potomac, within'the ceded district, at the
point where the city of Washington is now situated. The
exact position of the land where the city was to be established is shown by the map annexed to the opinion of the
court.
A casual examination of this map discloses that the pro.p6sed city began on the banks of the Potomac atiRock Creek,
separating it at that point from Georgetown, following along

tORRIS v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Peckham, JJ.

the course of the river to where the Eastern Branch emptied
into the Potomac, and extending some distance along the
banks of the Eastern Branch. It also shows that all the
land fronting on the water within the designated limits was
farming land, except at two points - the one where the town
of Ilamburgh (sometimes called Funkstown) was located, not
far from Georgetown, and the other where the town of
Carrollsburgh was situated, on the Eastern Branch. All the
farming land fronting on the river and Eastern Branch was
owned by Robert Peter, David Burns, iNotley Young, Daniel
Carroll, William Prout, Abraham Young, George Walker and
William Young.
It is conceded that, at the time the city was located on
the territory thus selected, the owners of all the farming
land fronting on the water were entitled under the law of
Maryland to riparian privileges as appurtenant to their
ownership, and that the same right belonged to the owners of
lots fronting on the water in the two towns of Hamburgh
and Carrollsburgh. It is, moreover, indisputably established
that at the time the selection was made some of the lot
owners, by wharves or otherwise, were actually enjoying the
riparian rights appurtenant to their property. Indeed, an
inspection of the map already annexed makes it clear that
the lots in Hamburgh and Carrollsburgh ran down to the
water's edge, and in some instances extended into the
water.
A few months after the appointment of the Commissioners,
in March, 1791, in order to aid in the establishment of the
city and to procure the funds wherewith to execute the
duties imposed by the act of Congress, through the influence
of President Washington most of the larger proprietors of
the land embraced within the limits of the city executed an
agreement, binding themselves to convey their lands, for
the purposes of the Federal City, t6 such persons as the
President might appoint, expressly, however, excepting from
the operation of the agreement any lots which the subscribers
might own in the towns of Hamburgh and Carrollsburgh.
The main purposes of this contract were concisely expressed

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Peckham, JJ.

by President Washington in a letter to Mr. Jefferson, then
Secretary of State, of date March 31, 1791, enclosing the proclamation fixing the boundary lines -of the Federal district.
.He said:
"The land is ceded to the public on condition that when
the whole shall be surveyed and. laid off as a city (which
Major L'Enfant is now directed to do) the present proprietors
shall retain every other lot -and for such part of the land as
may be taken for public use, for squares, walks, etc., they
shall be allowed at the rate of twenty-five pounds per acre the public having the right to reserve such parts of the wood
on the land as may be thought necessary to be preserved for
ornament. The landholders to have the use and profits of all
the grounds until the city is laid off into lots, and sale is made
of those lots which, by this agreement,-become public property
- nothing is to be allowed for the ground which may be
occupied as streets or alleys."
Subsequently, in order to carry out the agreement, the lot
owners conveyed their lands to trustees. The draft of the
conveyances, which were -xecuted on June 28, 1791, there
is every reason to believe was prepared by Commissioner
Johnson.
Several of the conveyances are set out in full in the opinion
of the court. Suffice it to say, that the land was conveyed to
the trustees by described boundaries, with the appurtenances.
Besides embodying the provisions contained in the previous
agreement, the deeds also contained other provisions material
to be noticed. Thus, in effect, the portion of the land conveyed which was to inure to the benefit of the public was
divided into two classes: First, the public reservations, streets
and alleys, not intended to be disposed of for purposes of
profit but retained for the public use; second, the share of
the public in the building lots (one half) intended as a donation. The land embraced in the first class was to be conveyed
by the President to the Commissioners for the time being
appointed under the act of Congress, 1790, "for the use of
the United States forever." The lands included in the second
class were stipulated to be sold and the proceeds applied as a

MORRIS v. UNITED STA TES.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Peckham, J.

grant of money, etc., but the trustees were to retain the title
and themselves execute deeds to purchasers of the public lots.
As already stated in the preliminary agreements and the
conveyances. to trustees executed by the larger proprietors,
their lots situated in Carrollsburgh and Hamburgh were excepted. On February 21, 1791, a portion of the proprietors
of lots in Hamburgh executed an agreement binding themselves to sell their lots in that town to the President of the
United States or to such Commissioners as he might appoint.
None of these lots would seem to have been situated on or
near the river, and, the agreement may' be dismissed from
view. On March 30, 1791, an. agreement was executed by
certain lot owners in Carrollsburgh, Commissioners Johnson
andCarroll being among the number. It was stipulated that
the lots of the subscribers should be subject to be laid out as
part of the Federal City, each subscriber donated one half of
his lots, and stipulated that his half should be assigned to him
'ins Zike situation. as before; it being moreover provided that
in the event of a disagreement between the owners and the
President as to the allotments made to them, a sale should be
made of the lots and the proceeds be equally divided. -A copy
of the agreement is set out in the margin.1
I We the Subscribers holding or entitled to Lots in Carrollsburgh agree
with each other and with the President of the United States that the lots
and land we hold or are entitled to in Carrollsburgh shall be ubject to be
laid out at the pleasure of the President as part of the Federal City and that
we will receive one half the Quantity of our respective Lots as near their
present Situation as may agree with the new plan and where we may be
entitled now to only one Lot or otherwise not entitled on the new plan to
one entife lot or do not agree with the President, Commissioners or other
person or persons acting on the part of the public on an adjustment of our
interest we agree that there shall be a sale -of the Lots in which we may be
interested respectively and the produce thereof in money or Securities sha!l
be equally divided onle half as a Donation for the Use of the United States
under the Act of Congress, the other half. to ourselves respectively. And
we engage to make Conveyances of our respective Lots and lands af'd to
Trustees or otherwise whereby to relinquish our rights to the said Lots &
Lands as the President or such Commrs. or persons acting as af'd shall
direct to secure to the United States the Donation intended by this Agreement.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: White, P'eckham, JJ.

The contracts just referred to embraced all the territory included within the proposed city, except certain lots in Carrollsburgh and Hamburgh, the owners of which had entered into
.no contract, and also certain lots in these towns owned by
non-residents and others who were incapable frofm infancy,
coverture or imbecility to consent to a sale or division of their
lots.
I submit that the contracts in question clearly point out the
difference between a city laid out as was the city of Washington
and a city laid out as the result of a plat made by a proprietor
in which lots are located on a street fronting on the river and
intervening between the lots and the water. The President
and the Commissioners, in dealing with the land embraced
vithin the proposed Federal City, were not acting as owners
in their own right, but were acting under the terms and
according to the covenants contained in the contracts between
the parties. What was to be given by the proprietors was
plainly specified, and what was to be retained by them was
also clearly 9tated. Riparian rights having been vested in
the owners at the time the contract was made, it cannot, it
seems to mne, with fairness be said that the former proprietors
were to receive as an 'equal division, one half of their lots, if
in making that division the Government was to strip all the
lots, as well those assigned to the public as those retained by
the 'proprietors, of the -riparian privileges originally appurtenant to the land. The intention of the contracting parties
is plainly shown by the provisions for the transfer of the
property in Carrollsburgh, where the owners stipulated that
they should retain one half of the lots, in like situation; and
where the plan to which reference has been made shows that
many of the lots abutted on the bank of the water in the
Eastern Branch.
But if there be doubt as to the agreements from which it
could be implied that the lot owners intended to give not
only one half of their lots but all the riparian rights appurtenant to the lots which they were to retain, the official con.duct of the Commissioners, the action of President Washington
and of all concerned, including the former proprietors, demon-

MORRIS v..UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Peckham, JJ.

strates that the understanding of everybody concerned in the
transaction was that the half of the lots which were to remain,
to the lot owners, should preserve their riparian privileges,
and that they should be continued to be exercised, even
although it was proposed, on a plan of the city, that there
should be a street on the entire river front. And it seems to
me it equally conclusively appears that it was plainly understood that the lots which were donated to the nation, and
which were to be sold, for the purppse of raising money to
erect the necessary buildings for the establishment of the
government, should, so far as those lots fronted on the water,
have attached to them the riparian rights which were originally appurtenant, and the fact that they had such original
rights formed the basis upon which it was hoped that as to
these lots a higher price would be obtained, because of the
existence of the riparian rights which were intended to be
conveyed, and as will be shown were actually conveyed along
with the water lots which the Government sold.
It cannot be in reason successfully denied that the construction of the agreements between the parties contemporaneouly
made by all concerned, and followed by long years of official
action and practical execution, furnishes the safest guide to
interpret the contracts, if there be doubt or ambiguity in
them.
In March, 1791, President Washington intrusted the preparation of a plan of the proposed city to Major L'Enfant. On
April 4, 1791, that officer requested Secretary of State Jefferson to furnish him with plans of leading cities and maps of*
the principal "seaports, or dock yards and arsenals," and in
a letter to President Washington, dated April 10, 1791, Mr.
Jefferson alluded to the fact that he had sent by post to
L'Enfant the plans of a number of Continental European
cities. Mr. Jefferson mentioned that he had himself procured these plans when he was visiting the named cities.
The serious import of the plans thus sent and the significance
resulting from them I shall hereafter comment upon'.
Among the proprietors who joined in the agreement and
had actually conveyed his land to the trustees was Robert

OCTOBER TERM. 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Peckham, JJ.

Peter. His property was situated abutting on Rock Creek,
arid on the river from the mouth of Rock Creek to the Hamburgh lifie. The record shows the following letter to the
Commissioners from President Washington:
"PmAUDnPnirA, July 24, 1791.

,I have received from Mr. Peter the enclosed letter proposing the erection of wharves at the new city between Rock
'Creek and Hamburgh. My answer to him is that the proposition is worthy of consideration, and that the transaction of
whatever may concern the public at that place in future being
now turned over to you, I have enclosed the letter to you to
do therein whatever you may think best, referring him at the
same time to you for an answer.
"The consequences of such wharves as are suggested by
Mr. Peter will, no doubt, claim your first attention; next, if
they are deemed a desirable undertaking, the means by which
the work can be effected with certainty and dispatch; and
lastly the true and equitable proportion which ought to be
paid by Mr. Peter towards the erection of them."
The pertinent portions of the letter of Mr. Peter, which
President Washington transmitted, are as follows:
"GoRGETow,
July 20, 1791.
"Sm: Colonel L'Enfant, I understand, has expressed a
wish that I should make propositions to join the public in
the expense of erecting wharves to extend from "the mouth
of Rock Creek to the point above Hamburgh called Cedar
Point, being about three thousand feet.

.

.

That the

wood should be furnished by me on the same terms that it
could be had from others, and that the whole expense should
be divided between the public and me in proportion to the
property held by each on the water. The streets I consider
as belonging to the public and one half the lots, so that I
suppose somewhere about one third of the expense would be
mine, and about two thirds the public's."
On August 28, 1791, Mr. Jefferson wrote from Philadelphia
to the Commissioners, acknowledging the receipt of a letter

MORRIS v. UNITED. STATES..
Dissenting Opinion: White, Peckham, JJ.

from them to the President, and adding: "Major L'Enfant
having also arrived here and laid the plan of the Federal
City before the President, he (the President) was pleased to
desire a conference of certain persons in his presence on these
several subjects."
Further along in his letter Mr. Jefferson stated that Mr.
Madison and himself "will be in George Town on the evening of the 7th or morning of the 8th of next month, in- time
to attend any meeting of the Commissioners on that day."
In accordance with this suggestion, on September 8,_1791,
the records show a meeting of the Commissioners, and it is
recited that "the Hon. Thomas Jefferson, Secretary of State,
and the Hon. James Madison attended the Commissioners in
conference."
It is further recited: "The following queries were presented
by the Secretary of State to the Commissioners, and the answers
thereto, with the resolutions following, were given and adopted:
Whether ought the building of a bridge over the Eastern Branch to be attempted, canal set about, and Mr. Peter'sl
proposition with respect to wharves gone into now or postponed until our funds. are better ascertained and become
productive"
In the-margin is this notation: "Must wait for money."
The foregoing letter of Mr. Peter to President Washington
clearly conveyed that his (Peter's) construction of the deed of
conveyance which hb made to the trustees was that the lots
to be assigned to him along the river should preserve their'
riparian rights, since he proposed as such owner to exercise
his riparian rights by building wharves under a joint agreement with the Commissioners, by which the work should be
done between. the Commissioners and himself as joint p"oprietors, he of his lots and they of their share of the building lots,
and as owners of the intersecting streets. and reservatiois.'
That such also was the view of President Washington necessarily follows from the fact that he transmitted Peter's letter
to the Commissioners with what amounted- to an express approval of. Peter's construction of the contract, cautioning the
Commissioners only to be circumspect as to the consequences

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinioni: White, Peckham, JJ.

of constructing the wharves and the proper equitable proportion of the cost of construction between the respective parties;
that is, Peter on the one hand in the exercise of his riparian
rights in front of his lots, and the public on the other in the
exercise of its riparian rights in front of its own lots and the
public land. It is worthy of note that the letter of Peter
states that he wrote the President under the inspiration and
at the suggestion of Major L'Enfant. If it be true that L'Enfant, who was then engaged in making the plan under Washington's orders, had conceived the project of cutting off all the
riparian rights of the lots fronting. on the river by a proposed street, how can it be conceived, in consonance with
honesty or fair dealing, that he would suggest to Peter the
making of a proposition absolutely inconsistent with the very
plan which he was then supposed to be carrying out? How
can it be thought that if President Washington entertained
the idea, that the, engineer employed by him had such an
intention, could he consistently have favorably indorsed the
proposition which would destroy the very plan which it now
is decided -vas then adopted and in process of actual execution? The scrupulous honor, the marvellous accuracy of detail
and precision of execution as to everything which he supervised or undertook, which were the most remarkable characteristics of President Washington, exclude the possibility of
any other construction being placed upon his acts with reference to Peter's letter than that which I have thus given. But
the reasoning is yet more -conclusive. Mr. Jefferson's letter
shows that before the meeting of the Commissioners was held
where Peter's letter was acted upon, the plan of Major L'Enfant had been laid before the President and by him transmitted to Mr. Jefferson. With this plan in his possession, do
the proceedings at the meeting of the Commissioners at which
Mr. Jefferson and Mr. Madison were present in conference with
the Commissioners disclose the slightest repudiation by them
or the Commissioners of the construction put by Peter upon
the contract? Emphatically no, for the sole reason ascribed
for not entering into an arrangement with Peter is the minute
entry, "M ust wait for money."

MORRIS v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opliion: White, Peckham, JJ.

At the time this meeting of the Commissioners with Mr.
Jefferson and Mr. Madison was held advertisement had been
made of an intended sale of some lots at public auction in
the following October. In a letter of Andrew Ellicott, a
surveyor who had been assisting L'Enfant, which letter was
addressed to the Commissioners under date of September 9,
1791, he offered suggestions with reference to the contemplated sale of lots, remarking that three things appeared
necessary to be attended to:
".First, those situations which will be considerably increased
in value when the public improvements are made; secondly,
those situations which have an immediate value from other
considerations; and, thirdly, those situations whose real value
must depend upon the increase and population of the city."
With respect to the second of these considerations he further
stated as follows:
"Secondly, it is not probable that the Public Improvements
will considerably affect either the value of the Lots from
Geo. Town to Funks Town; or generally on the Eastern
Branch; the proximity of the ..fist to a trading town and
good navigation, and the second lying on one of the best
Harbours in the Country, must have an immediate value, and
are therefore the most proper plans to confine the first sales
to.',
On the same day, also, L'Enfant was instructed by the
Commissioners that the Federal district should 1e called
"the Territory of Columbia," and that the Federal C.ity should
be named the City of Washington; and that the title of the
map should be "A Map of the City of Washington in thp
Territory of Columbia."
How can it be that Ellicott, the surveyor engaged with
Major L'Enfant in laying off the plan of, the city, would have
suggested that the lots fronting on the water would obtain the
best price because of an advantageous situation, if it had been
supposed that those lots should be, by the effect of the plan of
the city, stripped of their riparian rights, especially when the
Peter's letter is borne in: mind and the construction of the contracts which arise therefrom is taken into consideration.
vo.

CLx'xIv-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Peckham, 33.

On October 17, 1791, a first partial division of squares7 or
parts of squares was made with one or more of the former
proprietors; and on the same day and on the two days following a small number of lots Were sold. At this sale plats of
that portion of the city in which the lots offered for sale were
situated were shown to those in attendance. As none of these
appear to have been near the water, no further attention need
be given to them.
On October 25, 1791, in his third annual address, President
Washington informed Congress that "a city has been laid out
agreeably to a plan which will be laid before Congress," and
the plan prepared by L'Enfant was transmitted to Congress
on December 13, 1791.
It is obvious from a glance at this plan, as contained in the.
record, that it projected an open space along the water frQnt,
and showed at various localities separate wharves extending
beyond the open way.. That L'Enfant never contemplated,
however, that the eflect of this was to cut off the riparian
rights of the lot holders, and cause the water privileges to
be merely apphrtenant to the street, is shown by his suggestion to Peter and the cotemporaneous circumstances which
have been already adverted to, and will be moreover shown
hereafter. A vivid light on this subject is derived from an
additional occurrence which took place at the meeting of the
Commissioners with Mr. Jefferson and Mr. Madison.
At that meeting it is recited that a letter was written by
the Commissioners to the general assembly of Maryland, in
which occurs this passage:'
"That it will conduce much to convenience and use, as
well as beauty and order, that wharfing should be under
proper regulations from the beginning . . . Your memorialists therefore presume to submit to your honors whether
it will not be proper to . . . enable the Commissioners or
some other corporation, till Congress assumes the government,
to licensd the building of wharves of the materials, in the
manner and of the extent they may judge desirable and convenient, and agreeing with general order."
The request embodied in the memorial thus submitted

MORRIS v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Peckham, J3.

implied that in the judgment of those by whom it was drawn
that riparian rights, embracing the privilege of wharfage,
were attached to the lots fronting on the river, and authority
was deemed necessary to regulate the exercise and enjoyment
of such existing rights. There is not a word in the memorial
which can lead to the supposition that the Commissioners
desired power to originate rights of wharfage, for the memorial asks for authority to license the building of wharves
"of the materials, in the manner and of the extent they may
-judge desirable and convenient, and agreeing with general
order." Indeed, if all the riparian rights, as to the lots facing
on the river; bad been destroyed by the effect of the drawing
of the L'Enfant plan, then the requested authority was wholly
unnecessary, for in that case all the riparian rights would
have been appurtenant to a.street which belonged to the
public, and no one would have had the right to enjoy them
without the consent of the Commissioners, and consequently
they would have had the power in giving their assent.to such
enjoyment, to affix any condition they deemed proper, without legislative authority for that purpose. The mere fact
that the right of a riparian owner to erect wharves is subject
to license and regulation in nowise implies the non-existence
of riparian rights and rights of wharfage, for all ownership
of that character is held subject to control, as to the mode of
its enjoyment, by the legislative authority. I do not stop to
make any copious citation of authority on this subject, but
content myself with referring to the opinion of Chief Justice
Shaw, where the whole matter is admirably considered, in
Commonwealth v. Alger, 7 Cushing, 53.
The argument, then, that because the riparian right was
subject to license and regulation, it could not have prefxisted,
amounts to saying that no riparian right can ever exist. This
follows from an analysis of the contentionj which may be thus
stated: Riparian rights exist as rights of property and are
ever subject to lawful legislative regulation. If, however,
they are regulated, the necessary result of the regulation is
to take away the right. I do not here further' consider this
question, because, as will hereafter be shown by a statement

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Peckham, J.

of the Commissioners, which was in effect approved by President Washington, it was expressly declared that the sole object and purpose of the desired regulations was to compel
the owners in the enjoyment of their existing riparian rights
as to wharfage to conform to some general plan of public
convenience.
On December 19, 1791, the general assembly of Maryland
passed an act complying with the above request and conferring authority to license the building of wharves, as well as
excavations and the erection of buildings within the limits of
the city. The fact that in the same act in which was given
the power to license and regulate wharves there was also conveyed the authority to license excavations and the erection of
buildings, shows that it was considered that the act did not
originate a right, but merely controlled its exercise. For,
can it be said that because a.lot holder was obliged to obtain
a license before erbcting a building on his lot, that therefore
his ownership of his building was destroyed, and that he held
it at the will of the Commissioners? If it cannot be so said
in reason as to buildings, how can it be thus declared as to the
wharves, which were placed by the act in exactly the same
category? The act of the Maryland legislature in which the
foregoing provisions were contained embraced besides other
ubjects. It subjected to division lands in Hamburgh and
Carrollsburgh, not yet conveyed, for the purposes of the Federal City, and provided legal means to accomplish the division
of such lands belonging to persons who, on account of mental
or other incapacity, had not hitherto conveyed their rights.
The act contained a provision as to building liens, provided
for the existence of party or common walls between contiguous owners, for a record book, etc. Annexed in the margin'
I Extracts from act of general assembly of Maryland, dated December
19, 1791, c. 45:
After reciting the proclamation of President Washington, of date March
20, 1791, declaring the 5ounds of the territory, since called the Territory of
Columbia, it was further recited in the first section as follows:
"And whereas, Notley Young, Daniel Carroll of Duddington, and many
others, proprietors of the greater part of the land hereinafter mentioned to
'have been laid out in a city, came into an agreement, and have conveyed

MORRIS v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Peckham, JJ.

are extracts from the act, and, without stopping to analyze its
text, it seems to me that it evinces the blear intention of the
legislature that the lot owners should receive in all and every
their lands in trust to Thomas Beall, son of George, and John Mackall Gantt,
whereby they have subjected their lands to be laid out as a city, given up
part to the United States, and subjected other parts to be sold to raise
money as a donation to be employed according lo the act of Congress for
establishing the temporary and permanent seat of the government of the
United States, under and upon the terms and conditions contained in each
of the said deeds; and many of the proprietors of lots in Carrollsburgh and
Hamburgh have also come into an agreement, subjecting their lots to be
laid out anew, giving up one half of the quantity thereof to be sold, and the
money thence arising to be applied as a donation as aforesaid, and they to
be reinstated in one half of the quantity of their lots in the new location,
or otherwise compensated in land in a different situation within the city, by
agreement between the Commissioners and them, and, in case of disagreement, that then a just and full compensation shall be made in money; yet
some of the proprietors of lots in Carrollsburgh and Hamburgh, as well as
some of the proprietors of other lands, have not, from imbecility and other
causes, come into any agreement concerning their lands within the limits
hereinafter mentioned, but a very great proportion of the landholders having agreed on the same terms, the President of the United States directed a
city to be laid out.
"Sac. 3. And be it enacted, That all the lands belonging to minors, persons absent out of the State, married women, or persons non compos mentis,
or lands the property of this State, within the.limits of Carrollsburgh and'
Hamburgh, shall be and are hereby subjected to the terms and conditions
hereinbefore recited, as to the lots where the proprietors thereof have agreed
conceining the same; and all the other lands, belonging as aforesaid, within
the limits of the said city of Washington, shall be, and are hereby subjected
to the same terms and conditions as the-said Notley Young, Daniel Carroll
of Duddington, and others, have, by their said agreements and deeds, subjected their lands to, and where no conveyances have been made, the legal
estate and trust are hereby invested in the said Thomas Beall, son of George,
and John Mackall Gautt, in the same manner as if each proprietor had been
competent to make, and had made, a legal conveyance of his or her land,
according to the form of those already mentioned, with proper acknowledgments of thd execution thereof, and where necessary, of release of
dower."
The section then authorized the Commissioners, after due notice by
advertisement, to allot to the owners one half of the lots owned by infants,
married women, insane persons or owners absent out of the city. It was
then further provided:
" And, as to the other lands within the said city, the Commissioners
aforesaid, or any two of them, shall make such allotment and assignment

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Peckham, JJ.

respect an equal division of their property upon the allotments
authorized to be made by the Commissioners, and that thereby
it rebuts the assumption that by the effect of allotments or
the plan of the city, the lots fronting on the river were
stripped of their riparian rights, and that all such riparian
rights were vested in the public as the owners of a projected
street bounding on the river. In passing, attention is directed
to the fact that some of the very lots in controversy in this
cause, and as to which riparian rights are now denied, were
allotted by the Commissioners upon a division of water lots
owned by persons incapable of acting for themselves, under
the proceedings provided for in the Maryland statut , which
clearly, as to such persons, negates the conception that their
within the lands belonging to the same persons, in alternate lots, determining by lot or ballot whether the party shall begin with the lowest
number. .rovided, That in the cases of coverture and infancy, if the husband, guardian or next friend will agree with the Commissioners, or any
two of them, then an effectual division may be made by consent; and, In
case of contrary claims, if the claimants will not jointly agree, the Commissioners may proceed as if the proprietor was absent; and all persons to
whom allotments and assignments of lands shall be made by the. Commissioners, or any two of them, on consent and agreement, or pursuant to this
act without consent, shall hold the same in their former estate and interest,
and in lieu .of their former quantity, and subject in every respect to all such
limitations, conditions and incumbrances as their former estate and interest, and in lieu of their former quantity, and subject in every respect to all
such limitations, conditions and incumbrances as their former estates and
interests were subject to, and as if the same had been actually reconveyed
pursuant to thle said deed in trust."
"SEc. 12. And be it enacted, That the Commissioners aforesaid for the
time being, or any two of them, shall from time to time, until Congress
shall exercise the jurisdiction and government within the said territory,
have power to license the building of wharves in the waters of Potowmae
and the Eastern Branch, adjoining the said city, of the materials, in the
manner and of the extent they may judge durable, convenient and agreeing
with general order; but no license shall be granted to one t6 build a wharf
before the land of another, nor shall any wharf be built in the said waters
without license as aforesaid; and if any wharf shall be built without such
license or different therefrom, the same is hereby declared a common
nuisance; .
.
they may also, from time to time, make regulations for
landing and laying materials for building the said city, for disposing and
laying earth which may be dug out of the wells; cellars and foundations,
and for ascertaining the thickness of the walls of houses."

MORRIS v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion:- White, Peckham, JJ.

riparian rights had been or could be destroyed by the involuntary surrender of their property under the operation of the
statute.
I am thus brought to a consideration of the second epoch.
2. The formatie period of the city in which the initialsteps
in the previous period were in a large measwre carried into
execution, which extends to the actual establishmenrt of the seat
of government in Washington.
The L'Enfant plan was not engraved and put into general
circulation, owing to the withdrawal of that gentleman from
the employment of the city, in consequence of differences with
the Commissioners, and his retention of the plan which he had
prepared. In consequence, Andrew Ellicott was employed,
about the middle of February, 1792, to prepare another plan of
the city for engraving. A proof sheet of a plan by him made,.
which had been engraved at Boston, but which omitted to
indicate the soundings" of the Eastern Branch and the Potomac River, was received by the Secretary of State early in the
following July. Proof from a plate of the same plan engraved in Philadelphia, which indicated the soundings, was,
however, received by the Commissioners about the middle of
November, 1792. Copies of both of the above plans were
largely distributed throughout this country and abroad. The
Ellicott plan, in its general features, was similar to that of
L'Enfant, being practically based thereon. It indicated an.
open space along the water front, and wharves projecting:
from the further side thereof. A reduced copy of. this plan.is
a part of the opini6n of the court.
Incidentally it may be stated that a project of the Secretary
of State for obtaining a loan upon the public property to meet
the expenditures connected with the establishment of the new
city was transmitted to the Commissioners on Marbh 13, 1792,
but action thereon was suspended owing to a financial crisis
which occurred soon afterwards.
On September 29, 1792, President Washington'transmitted
to the Commissioners an order authorizing. a public sale- of
lots on the 8th day of October, 1792, and conferring authority
upon the Commissioners to dispose thereafter of lots by Pri-.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: White; Peckham, JJ.

rate sale. The second public sale of lots was held on October
8, 1792, and the plan of the city engraved at Boston was
exhibited. During 1792 some squares were divided with the
proprietors, among others Nos. 4, 8, 160, 728 and 729.
Nothing else of material importance, requisite to be noticed,
transpired in 1792.
On March 12, 1793, Major Ellicott, who had been in charge
of the surveying department, left the service of the Commissioners. Two days afterwards Dermott, who had prepared
a plan of that part of the city which is covered by Hamburgh,
and who had laid down the lines of Hamburgh in different
ink, was requested to do the like with respect to Carrollsburgh,
so that each might be ready for divisi6n with the proprietors
in April.
On April 9, 1793, a number of lot owners in Hamburgh and
Carrollsburgh joined in a formal conveyance of lots owned by
them, to the trustees named in the deeds of the proprietors of
the farming tracts, for the purposes of the Federal City. This
was after, it will be remembered, both the L'Enfant and Ellicott plans had been prepared, and the latter extensively circulated. It was stipulated in this deed that on the allotment
and division to be made by the Commissioners, "one half the
quantity of the said lots, pieces and parcels hereby bargained
and sold shall be assigned and conveyed as near the old situation as may be to them, the said Thomas Johns, James M.
Lingan, William Deakins, Jun., Uriah Forrest and Benjamin
Stoddard, respectively, in fee simple, so that each respective
former proprietor shall have made up to him one half of his
former quantity and in as good a situation."
If the L'Enfant and Ellicott plans had destroyed all riparian rights, as it is now held, it is obvious that the provisions
of this conveyance could not be carried out if the water lot
owners were -to receive half' of their lands in the same or as
good a situation.
On April 9, 1793, regulations were promulgated by the
Commissioners relative to the subject of surveys by the surveying department, prescribing forms of returns to be made,
etc., adding: "The work is from time to time to be added

MORRIS v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Peckham, JJ.

on the large plat, which, on being finished, is to be considered
as a record."
On April 10, 1793, James R. Dermott was appointed to lay
off squares into lots, and regulations were prescribed with
respect to the performance of his duties. He was to take
minutes of the squares from the certificates of surveys returned to the office of the clerk of the Commissioners, and,
from this, plat the squares by a scale of forty feet in an inch
and divide the squares into lots, and in one corner of the paper
containing the plat of the squares he was to write down the
substance of the certificate from which it was made, giving
the boundaries. Mr. Dermott, in answers to questions propounded by the Commissioners on February 28, 1799, enumerates thirty squares that were surveyed in the summer of
1792, having beeAi in a manner bounded and a small ditch Qut
around them, but the dimensions were not noted on any document. He said that Mr. Ellicott's return of their survey and
measurement was after the 10th of April, 1793, on which date
Ellicott returned to the service of the city.
On June 17, 1793, Andrew Ellicott forwarded to the clerk
of the Commissioners three sheets of different parts of Washington, with the returns of the bounds and dimensions of the
several squares represented on the sheets. Sheet 2.contained.
the part which'was formerly Hamburgh - the interferences
between the new and old locations being delineated in different colors- Hamburgh, as formerly, being represented in
red. Sheet No. 3 contained the town called Carrollsburgh
drawn in yellow, so that the interferences, as in the case of
Hamburgb, might be rendered conspicuous.
The map of Hamburgh showing interferences is contained
in the record. No city squares are shown nearer to the water
than Nos. 62 and 88. They abut on the south line of what
was named Water street in Hamburgh, which street was the
northerly boundary of the lower range of water lots. Squares
63 and 89 were subsequently made to embrace the water lots,,
those squares being bounded on the north by the south line
of the old Water street, while in the return and plat of survey
they are bounded on the south by the Potomac River.

OCTMOER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: White i Peckham, JJ.

A partial division was made with some of the lot owners
of Hamburgh and Carrollsburgh in 1793. Concerning this,
Dermott, in a report to the Commissioners made on February
28, 1799, answering the question as to whether he knew of
any instance when the right of wharfage in the city had been
so claimed or exercised as to raise a dispute, or was likely to
do so, said:
"The Commissioners in 1793, when dividing Carrollsburgh
and HIamburgh, had the subject of -wharfageunder consideration. There were only two places where any difficulty could
arise, against which every precaution was taken. The one
place was square south of 744. In compensating for what
was termed water property of Carrollsburgh, which lay on that
ground, there were some lots laid out on that square to satisfy
claimants. Upon an investigation of the business it was found
that that square must bind on Canal street to the east, and not
the channel, and that it could have no.privilege south, therefore the new locations of water property made in it were withdrawn (except one) and placed in square 705, in a much more
advantageous situation thfn could be expected from the original location; to this the original proprietors acquiesced."
Three things are evident to ine from this statement: First,
that the Commissioners had considered wharfing and found
no difficulty in recognizing it in every case but the instances
mentioned, a condition of things impossible to conceive of if
no wharfing rights existed and they had all been vested in
the public; second, that the privilege in the water or water
lots was treated by Dermott and the Commissioners as synonymous with the right of wharfing, in other words, with
riparian rights; and, third, that as by the peculiar location of
one of the squares which was entitled originally to the water
privilege, such privilege was by the new plan impaired, a new
water lot was given to the owner to enable him to have the
full enjoyment of his water and wharfage privilege. But
that to give the owner another allotment to secure him an
existing right is utterly incompatible with the conception that
the right did not exist, seems to me too clear for anything
but statement.

MORRIS v. TTIED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Peckham, JJ.

Dermott also communicated the followirig as alterations
made after the Ellicott plan had been published, having
respect to the exercise of wharfing privileges:
"In running a water street on the southeast of Carrollsburgh on the bank and establishing the right 9f wharfing to -be
governed by the parallel (or east.nd west streets to the channel).
This latter part is not considered as a difference, but an establishment of right, to regulate the privilege by at all time's.
This was done in order to accommodate the original proprietors of lots in that town already established by law. With.out
this there was no mode known at the tine to do it. Similar
regulations had taken place through the rest of the city, of'
which the returns of the surveyors in the office can testify.
The whole of this met the approbation of the Commissioners
under the regulations of the 10th of April, 1793."
This explains the presence on the Dermott map at this'
locality of a number of new -squares, in the water, with the
river side of the squares open towards the channel. As Dermott declares, they were designed to mark the direction for
wharfing, and the evidence establishes that lots thus situated
in the water were regarded as appurtenant to the water squares,
or squares bounded towards the vater by an apparent street,
and of which squares an equal division was to be made.
May I- again pause to accentuate the fact that every statement thus made by Dermott to the Commissioners of the
changes in the Ellicott plan are absolutely inconsistent with
the hssumed non-existence of wharfing rights and, indeed, as
I understand them, are irreconcilable with honesty on the part
of Dermott or the Commissioners if the riparian rights bad
been obliterated. Remember that the lot owners had a right
to have the share of the lots coming-to them in "a like or as
good situation" as before, and if not satisfied with the share
given to them, had the power to cause the sale of the whole.
To satisfy them and induce them to accept the allotment, here
is the final declaration that in considering the question of
wharfage the lot holders were assured that their rights would
extend across the proposed street by parallel east and west
lines to the channeL Can it be believed that all the hon-

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: White Peckham, JJ.

orable men concerned in the division of the lands, would
have given such assurances to the proprietors to cause them
to accept the allotment, if they knew or believed that the
rights of the lot holders Were cut off by the proposed street,
and that there could be no extensios of the east and west
lines across the street to the channel? Mark, moreover, the
express declaration of Mr- "Dermott,upon whom the duty had
been cast of platting the surveys of the division, that" similar
regulations had taken place through the rest of the city.
The whole of this met the approbation of the Commissioners
under the regulations of the 10th of April, 1793." This, then,
is the situation. An official concerned with duties respecting
divisions with lot owners solemnly declares that throughout
the whole city the lot holders had been assured that the riparian privileges attached to their water lots, which right of
wharfage would extend by east and west lines across the proposed street to the channel, and that this declaration was approved by the Commissioners; but yet it is now decided that
at the time all this was done there were no riparian rights to
extend across the proposed street by east and west lines to the
channel, because they had all been cut off by the street in
question.
Dermott replied to the question: "Were any difficulties
ever suggested as to the direction of the wharves or rights of
purchasers until the time of Nicholas King?" as follows:
"None that I know of after the first arrangements had
taken place, in 1793, respecting Carrollsburgh, Hamburgh
and other parts of the city.. Sometimes purchasers of water
property could not at the first view understand theirprivilegm,
but when explained to them were generally satisfied; and I
know of no one closing a bargain until fully convinced of their
r ight8 of wharfage."
Evidently the "first arrangements" referred to were those
made on the initial division or sale of water property. "Privileges" and "rights of wharfage" are here also used as synonymous in meaning.
The Government having succeeded in selling, at an enhanced
price, lots fronting on the river only after convincing the pur-

MORRIS v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Peckham, JJ.

chasers of their rights to wharfage, it seems to -me that, after
all these years, it cannot in equity be allowed to bold on to
the result of the sales and deny the right of wharfage, by giving positive assurance as to the existence of which the sales
were alone made possible.
Mr. Dermott also alluded to the fact that variations bad
been made in the published plan of Ellicott "in order to
compensate original proprietors of lots in.
Carrollsburgh with
lots on the plan of the city upon the principles established by
law, and as near the original situation as could be."f
In December, 1793, Ellicott addressed another letter to the
Commissioners, from which it is clearly inferable that the
advantages attached to the lots having riparian rights were
deemed to give to those- lots a higher value thanf those not
possessing such rights.
Dermott, in enumerating the sales of "public water squares,
in lots on navigable waters," which were sold before a date
stated, mentioned, among other property: "The public water
property from squares Nos. 2 to 10, inclusive." The above
squares were on land which formerly belonged to Mr. Peter,
and was part of the land in front of which the negotiations
were had in 1791, already referred to, for the erection of
wharves in conjunction with the city. They were all bounded
on the Ellicott map on the water side by a street. Square No.
3, appearing as a small triangular piece of ground and as
abutting directly on the river street, was separated by.a street
on the west from square No. 8. Though appearing on the
plan, square No. 3 had not been platted or officially admitted
as a square. On December 22, 1793, John Templeman offered
to buy one half -presumably the public half-of square 8,
(which square had been divided October 8, 1792,) and one half
of the square back of it, "provided that the slip of ground
which lays between the water and street is given in, .
and oblige myself to build a good wharf and brick store
immediately." The proceedings of the Commissioners in
January, 1794, recite the sale to Templeman of nine lots in
square No. 8,and the delivery to him of a certificate with
the following indorsement thereon; "It is the intention of

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: White$ Peckham, JJ.

this sale that the ground across the street next the water,
with the privilege of wharfing beyond the street in front,
and of the breadth of the lots, pass with them agreeably to the
general idea in simi'larinstances."
' It will be observed that the conveyance, in the body of
the certificate, was of lots in square 8, the indorsement evidently being designed to indicate what was to be regarded as
appurtenant to those lots.
It seems hardly necessary to suggest that riparian rights,
that is, rights of wharfage, could not possibly have been certified as existing in the land sold to Templeman, "agreeably to
the general idea in similar instances," if all such rights had
been already cut off by the effect of the L'Enfaut and the
Ellicott maps, for it must be borne in mind that the property
certified, in eftect, as appurtenant to the lots in square 8
and sold to Templeman was delineated on the map as being
bounded on the water side by a proposed street.
Let me for a moment consider the consequences of the
above transaction. When it took place it is not denied by
'any one that the Commissioners were sedulously engaged in
an- effort to dispose of the public lots for the purpose of ob.taining the money to carry out the great object of establishing
the city. The property sold to Templeman was unquestionably separated from the water by a street on the proposed
plans which had been distributed and were known; but more
,than this, partially in front of it, on the further side of the
* street, lay a small strip of land, also bounded on the'plan on
the river side by an apparent street, and that such- square was
marked on the plan as a numbered square, though not actually
;platted. Templeman desired to buy the platted square, but
he was unwilling to do so lest it might be claimed that the
,small piece of unplatted land on the opposite side of the street
might cut him off froin the river, and thereby deprive him of
his riparian rights. *That he needed the riparian rights and
intended to use them results from'the fact thit his proposition
contained a guarantee to erect a wharf. It is patent from
such proposition that it entered into the mind of no one to
,-conceive of the fact that a street laid down on the plan as in

MORRIS v. UNITED STATES.
- Dissenting Opinion: White, Peckham, 33.

front of the square would cut off riparian rights. Now, what
did the Commissioners do? They accepted the proposition
and sold square 8, expressly declaring that riparian rights
should exist in front of the square, across the street, "agreeably to the general idea in similar instances." Put side by
side the decision now made and the declaration of the Commissioners. There were no riparian rights across the street,
because they had all been destroyed and taken away from
the owners and given to the public by the UIEnfant and Ellicott plans. So, now, it is held. IRiparian rights exist across
the street, including wharfage, in all similar cases; that is, in
all cases where the property substantially abuts upon the river,
but is bounded by a proposed and projected street, is the declaration which the Commissioners made in the execution of
the great trust reposed in them.
When the effect of this declaration is considered in connection with the previous acts of the Commissioners and thb contracts and nigotiations of the proprietors, and when the flood
of light which it throws upon subsequent dealings is given
due weight my mind refuses to reach the conclusion that
riparian rights did not attach to the water lots. Can it be
doubted that this formal and official declaration of the Commissioners became the guide and the understanding for the
sales thereafter made by the Commissioners, and which they
were then contemplating and endeavoring to consummate?.
Will it be said that the members of the commission and all
those associated in the work would have allowed a declaration so delusive and deceptive to have been made and
entered on the minutes of the commission, if it had in the
remotest degree been conceived that riparian rights did not
exist.l
The sale to Templeman, as stated, was not consummated
until January, 1794. -No sales in the city took place deserving attention until the 23d of December, 1793, when a contract was made with Robert Morris and James Greenleaf for
the'sale of 6000 lots, (to be selected,) averaging 5265 square
feet, at the rate of thirty pounds per lot, payable in seven
annual instalments, without interest, commencing the 1st of

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Peckham, JJ.

May, 1794, and with condition of building twenty brick
houses annually, two stories high; covering 1200 square feet
each; and with further condition that they should not sell
any. lots previous to the 1st of January, 1796, bat on condition
of erecting on every third lot one such house within four years
from the time of, sale. It was expressly stipulated that 4500
of the lots should be to the southwest of Massachusetts avenue, and that of those lots "the said Robert Morris and James
Greenleaf shall have the part of the city in ZVotley Young's
land." Certain squares were next specifically excepted from
the operation of the agreement, as also "the lots lying in Carrollsburgh, and

.

.

the water lots, including the water

lots on the Eastern Branch, and also one half of the lots lying
in Hamburgh, the lots in that part of the city and belonging
to it, other than water lots, being to be divided by alternate
choice between the said Commissioners and the said Robert
Morris and James Greenleaf." Immediately tLereafter was
contained this proviso: ":Provided, however, and i is hereby
agreed by and between the parties to these presents, that the
said Robert Morris and James Greenleaf are entitled to the
lots in Notley Young's land, and of course to the privilege of
wharf~ng annexed thereto."
The word " lots" in the proviso manifestly meant " water"
lots, as there had been previously an express agreement that
Morris and Greenleaf shotild "have the part of the city in
Notley Young's land." As stated, the proviso followed a
stipulation excepting "water lots" generally-from the operaEvidently, therefore, the proviso
tion of the agreement.
was inserted out of abundant caution, to leave no room for
controversy as to the right of Morris and Greenleaf to the
"water" lots in Notley Young's land; and therefore clearly
imported that the lots in Notley Young's land fronting on the
river, and which had been bounded at that time by both the
L'Enfant and the Ellicott plan and by the return of surveys
by Water street, were notwithstanding water lots, and entitled
to wharfage as a matter of course.
My mind fails to see that there were no riparian rights or
rights of wharfage attached to the lots bounded by the pro-

]MORRIS v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Peckham, JJ.

posed Water street, in view of the express terms of the above
contract. How could it have been declared that "of course"
the water privilege and consequent right of wharfage went
with the water lots, when it had been long determined, as the
court now holds, that there were no water lots and no wharfing privileges to be sold? True, it has heretofore been
suggested that this provision in the Morris and Greenleaf contract may have referred to lots in Kotley Young's land which
might be water lots other than those on the Potomac River,
as, for instance, lots in Carrollsburgh or on the Eastern Branch.
But all lots in Carrollsburgh and the water lots on the Eastern Branch were excluded from being selected by Morris and
Greenleaf by the express terms of the contract, and besides
there were no lots in the land conveyed by Notley Young
which could be considered as water lots, other than those
fronting on the Potomac River and on that portion of tha
Eastern Branch which the Government had already taken as a
public reservation for an arsenal. The fact is then; that at
the very time when it is now decided that all riparian rights
had been wiped out and that no wharfing privilege existed as
appurtenant to water lots, in order to accomplish. the successful foundation of the city an enormous number of lots were
sold under the express guarantee of the existence of water lots
and under the unambiguous stipulation that such lots should,
of cour8e, enjoy the wharfing privilege.
That this sale to
Morris and Greenleaf was submitted to President Washington
before its consummation no one can doubt, in view of the
deep interest he took in the foundation of the city and of the
manifest influence which the making of the sale was to have
on the accomplishment of his wishes. Can it- be said of
Washington that he w6uld have allowed a stipulation of that
character to go into the contract if he believed that there were .
no water lots and no wharfing privileges because under his
direction they had all ceased to exist? If this were a controversy between individuals, and it wvere shown that a conveyance had been made with statements in it as to the existence
of water lots and rights of wharfage, would a court of equity
be found to allow the person who had reaped the benefit of
VOL. cLxxIv-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: .White, Peckham, 33.

his assurance by selling the property, to alter his position and
assert as against the purchaser the non-existence of the very
rights which he had declared, "of course," existed, in order t6
consummate the conveyance? If a court of equity would not
allow an individual to take such a position, my conception is
that a nation should not be allowed here to avail itself of
an attitude so contrary to good faith and so violative of the
elementary principles of justice and equity, and, especially,
where the statute on which this controversy is based imposes
upon the court the duty of administering the rights of the
parties according to the principles of equity.
It is true that some time after the Morris and Greenleaf
contract was made a certificate was issued by the Commissioners, giving more formal evidence of the title to the land,
anddescribing the lots by'reference merely to the numbers in
the squares, without repeating the assurance that the lots
were water' lots, and that, "of course," the rights of wharfage
attached as stated in the previous contract. But neither did
the certificate reiterate or re~xpress the obligations assumed
by the purchasers to erect buildings, and so on. Can the
certificate be treated as 6hanging the covenants of the contract as against Morris and Greenleaf so far as the water, lots
and wharfing privilege are concerned, because it was silent on
this subject, and yet be not held to have discharged them
from the burdens of the contract, as to which also the certificate was silent? Can it be imputed to the Commissioners
that after the contract was made, and they had duly. reaped
the benefits arising from it, that, of their own accord, by the
mere fact of the issue of the certificate, they could discharge
themselves from the burdens of the contract and hold on to
the benefits? Can a court of equity recognize such a principle
or enforce it? If not, how in consonance with equity can
such a principle be applied here? But the record in my
judgment entirely relieves the mind of the possibility of imputing any such inequitable conduct to the Commissioners,
for it shows beyond dispute that after the consummation of
the allotments to Morris and Greenleaf and to Notley Young,
both these parties or their grantees applied to the Commis-

MORRIS v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Peckham, JJ.

sioners for license to erect wharves in front of their "1water
lots," and that licenses were issued as a matter of course. If
should also be remembered that the expression "water lots"
and "the wharfing privileges," which were, of course, attached
"thereto," used in the contract with Morris and Greenleaf,
affirmatively shows 'what was the signification of the words
"water lots" as previously made use of by the Commissioners in
dealing with other persons. As there were no lots in Notley
Young's land embraced within the terms of the contract which
were not separated from the river by the proposed street on
the L'Enfant or Ellicott plan, it follows conclusively that the
words" water lots" could only have referred to the lots fronting
on the river and facing on the projected street, which were
deemed water lots because of their situation, and which were
of course entitled in consequence to the privilege of wharfage.
It cannot be gainsaid that at the time the contract with Morris and Greenleaf was made the L'Enfant plan was known and
the Ellicott reproduction of it had been engraved and was
extensively circulated. Dealing with this ascertained and
defined situation the covenants in the contract with Morris
and Greenleaf were, in reason, it seems, susceptible alone of
the construction which I have placed upon them. The importance with which the Morris and Greenleaf contract was
regarded at that time and the influence which it was believed
it would exert upon the successful accomplishment of the
foundation of the city is amply shown by a report of the
Commissioners made to President Washington, enclosing, on
December 23, 1793, a copy of the Morris and Greenleaf contract. The Commissioners said:
"A consideration of the uncertainty of settled times and
an unembarrassed commerce weighed much with us as well
as Mr. Morris' capital, influence and activity. The statement
of funds enclosed may enable the prosecution of the work
even in a war, in which event we should (be ?) without thi8
contract have been almost still."
This summary of the events of the year 1793 is concluded
with a reference to the Maryland act of December 28, 1793,
passed as supplementary to the statute of December 19, 1791.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Peckham, J.

By the first section it would seem to have been designed to
vest in the Commissioners the legal title to the lands which
bad been conveyed to the trustees, while the third section
provided for division and allotment by the Commissioners of
the lots within the limits of Oarrollsburgh not yet divided.
In the margin ' the sections referred to are inserted.
As further evidence that the Commissioners regarded the
special value of "water lots" to consist in the wharfing privilege, and that a water lot was not divested of riparian rights
because the lots were bounded towards the water, (either on
the plat of survey or on the plan of the city,) by a street,
attention is called to the minutes of the Commissioners in
March, 1794, with respect to squares 771 and 802, which, on
both the Ellicott and Dermott maps, were separated from the
water by Georgia avenue. Return of survey of square 802
was dated September 3, 1793, and bounded the square on all
sides by streets.
I Suc. 1. Be it enacted by the General Assembly of Maryland, That the
certificates granted, or which may be granted, by the said commissioners,
or any two of them, to purchasers of lots in the said city, with acknowledgment of the payment of the whole purchase money, and interest, if any
shall have arisen thereon, and recorded agreeably to the directions of the
act concerning the territory of Columbia and the city of Washington, shall
be sufficient and effectual to vest the legal estate in the purchasers, their
heirs and assigns, according to the import of such certificates, without any
deed or formal conveyance.
SEc. 3. And be it enacted, That the commissioners aforesaid, or any two
of them, may appoint a certain day for the allotment and assigilment of
one half of the quantity of each lot of ground in Carrollsburgh and Hamburgb, not before that time divided or assigned, pursuant to the said act
concerning the territory of Columbia and the city of Washington, and on
notice thereof in the Annapolis, some one of the Baltimore, the Eastern and
Georgetowin newspapers, for at least three weeks, the same commissioners
may proceed to the allotment and assignment of ground within the said city,
on the day appointed for that purpose, and therein proceed, at convenient
times, till
the whole be finished, as if the proprietors of such lots actually
resided out of the State; provided, that if the proprietor of any such lot
shall object, in person, or by writing delivered to the commissioners, against
their so proceeding as to his lot, before they shall have made an assignment of ground for the same, then they shall forbear as to such lot, and
ippy propeed according to the before-mentioned act.

"]MORRIS v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Peckham, JJ.

The minutes read as follows (6: 162):
1A copy of the following proposition was delivered Mr.
Robert Walsh, of Baltimore : Mr. Carroll will sell only half
of his half of the water lots, in square 771 & 802; he will
divide so that the purchaser may have his part adjoining.
"The Commissioners have for the public a right in one
half of these water lots. They are willing to dispose of that
part.
"Mr. Greenleaf by his contract has a right to choose the
public part in squares 770, 771, & 801, 802, except the water
lots.
"The Commissioners have advised Mr. Greenleaf that they
were in treaty for the public water lots in squares 771 and
802, and some adjoining lots, and expected that Mr. Greenleaf would have waived his right of choice in the back lots;
he has not -done so, but, desired in case the contract for the
water lots was not finished tha*t they might be reserved as a
part of twelve. The Commissioners had promised to reserve
for him to accom'odate his friends, under terms of speedy
improvement.
So circumstanced, the Commissioners can
positively agree for the public interest in the water lots only,
which they offer at the rate of 200 pounds each, and the
public interest in the rest of the lots in the four squares, at
100 pounds each, to take place in case Mr. Greenleaf does not
fix his choice on them.
"But the Comnissioners, conceiving there is room on three

fourth8 of the water line FOR

WHARFAGE SUFFICIENT TO GRATIFY

and that the views of all would be promoted by the
neighborhood and efforts of both interests, would wish rather
that on Mr. Greenleaf coming here, from 10 to 15th of next
month, the two interests might be adjusted. The Commissioners would have a pleasure in contributing all in their
power, and assure themselves there would be no difficulty if
all were met together."
These squares, because they were" water lots in the Eastern
Branch," could not have been selected by Greenleaf under the
large contract already referred to, and therefore the purchase
of these lots was a separate transaction. The, fact that the
BOTH,

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Peckham, JJ.

respective parties referred to in the communication were coiitending for the acquisition bf the water lots separated from
the river by Georgia avenue, because they wanted the water
privileges, clearly shows that it was deemed. that such privilege was appurtenant and that the Commissioners thought
that on three fourths of the water line there was wharfage
room sufficient to gratify both, makes it plain that it did not
occur to the mind of anybody that the contemplated street
would cut off the water lots from the possession of riparian
rights or destroy the wharfing privilege.
As already stated, a division of the water lots in Hamburgh
was not made until June, 1791. Without stopping to analyze
-these divisions, suffice it to say that in my opinion they affirm
the fact that it was not intended to cut off the water privileges
of the owners whose water lots were divided. It is clear from
the proceedings as to the allotments in squares 63 and 89
(which embraced most of the former water lots) that some of
these divisions in Hamburgh, as already mentioned, were
made as against owners incapable of representing themselves,
and that allotments were made by the Commissioners by
virtue of the authority conferred by the Maryland act, which
commanded, as I have already shown, that the allotments
should be in a like situation and that the division should be
equal. The acts of the Commissioners in the division of
the squares referred to manifest, as understood by me, an
effort and purpose to comply, not only with the terms of the
contracts for the division of Hamburgh, but with the commands of the statute, and show the preseryation of whatever
rights were appurtenant to the water lots before the division
took place. It may be worthy of note that one of the lots
in square 63 which was so divided and fell to the public was
sold contemporaneously with the transaction as a water lot by
the front foot.
I have already referred to the fact that Dermott in 1799
enumerated the public water lroperty previously sold, as part
of "the public water property from squares Nos. 2 to 10, inclusive," formerly land of Robert Peter, and part of the water
lots in front of which L'Enfant in: 1791 had proposed that

MORRIS v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Peckham, JJ.

Peter and the city should jointly erect wharves.

On Novem-

ber 7, 1794, the Commissioners wrote to General W. Stewart
in part as follows:
c .
With respect to the water lots, the squares are
also not yet divided, and the Commissioners can only sell you
the part of the said two squares" (referring to squares 2 and
10) "which shall belong to the public on making divisions.
Such we have no objections to sell you at 16 dollars the foot
in front."
And on November 11 following the Commissioners again
wrote General Stewart:
. .. No.2 contains at. the termination of the wharf
317 feet. This is to be paid for by the number of feet in
front, but it includes square No. 7'," (a small square on the
east,) "15,444 square feet, not taken into any other calculation. No. 10 contains in front, at high-water mark, 176 feet.
At the termination of the wharf 246. Mfedium, on account
of the vicinity of the channel.
"N. B.-It
must be remembered that only one half of
these squares belong to the public."
This shows that at the time of these negotiations wharves
existed in front of the squares, and that though the squares
were bounded on thepZan, towards the water, by a street, yet
that the squares lay partly in the water, and that the negotiations were conducted on that basis and with reference to the
wharfing privileges. No other inference is possible in view
of the fact that an actual charge was made for land beyond
the street and out to the end of the wharf.
A sale was made to General Stewart on December 18, 1794.
At what was formerly Carrollsburgh, as already stated, a
variation was made from the Ellicott map by running a water
street on the southeast on the bank, and establishing the right
of wharfage to be governed by the parallel (or east and west
streets) to the channel. Dermott, in his report to the Commissioners, represented that "the public water squares, or lots
on navigable water what fell to the public after satisfying
original.proprietorsof lots in Carrollsburgh from square 611
round to square 705, both inclusive," except four lots in squares

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Peckham, JJ.

610 and 613, were sold by a date named. The main portion
of the water lots in front of Carrollsburgh would seem to
have been allotted to former water lot owners. The evidence
in this record, however, as to sales of public water lots in this
locality, clearly exhibits the fact that apparent squares shown
on the Dermott map as lying wholly or almost entirely in the
water, outside of the line of the assumed street, were sold,
simply as a part of the water lots on the other side of the
projected street; that is to say, the conveyances were of
those lots by the front foot, in some instances adding "with
the water privileges -east of the same," showing clearly that
what lay east of the street was considered as simply a part of
the property fronting on the street, and as necessarily following it in order not to impair its value. Instances of this kind
are shown by the record in connection with squares 667 and
east of 667, squares 665 and 666, and squares 662 and 709.
And in the case of square s. s. 667, lying to the south of the
street, which consisted of considerable fast land, a sale was
inade of a lot in that square with the privilege east of the
same, being an unnumbered square lying in the water.
It is worthy to be mentioned, although out of the order of
its date, that lots in oie of the very squares above referred to
(No. 667) were conveyed to General Washington himself, together -with the appurtenant lots lying in the water beyond
the street, and that General Washington, in his will, (1 Spark's
Writings, 582, 585,) referred to the lots fronting towards the
river on the street as water lots, and made no mention of the
lots in the water.
Illustrations like unto those above made abound in the record, showing that lots which were separated from the river
by a street delineated upon the plan 'of the city, and also by
the return of actual survey, were yet sold by the Commissioners for an increased price as water lots, which imported,
as has been shown and will hereafter further appear, that
riparian privileges were attached to the lots. The record also
cites instances where application was made to the Commissioners by the owner of a water lot for a license to wharf in
front of his lot, and such license issued. I do not stop to refer

MORRIS v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Peckham, JJ.

in detail to all such cases, because those already enumerated
adequately show the conception of the situation entertained
by all the parties at the time and on the faith of which they
dealt. No single instance to the contrary has been found,
nor has a case been pointed to where the Commissioners sold
or offered to sell a water privilege or riparian right of any
kind, including the right of wharfage, as appurtenant to a
public treet. The importance of this fact cannot be overestimated. The history of the times leaves no doubt of the solicitude of President Washington and of the Commissioners,
Whose hopes were enlisted in the permanent establishment of.
the capital, to avail of every resource to obtain the. means
wherewith to erect the public buildings, so that the capital
might be ready for occupancy at the time designated in the
act of Congress. If it be true that the riparian rights were
cut off by the intention to make a: street along the river, then
all such rights along the whole river front belonged to the
United States and were at the disposal of the Commissioners
for sale. Seeking, as they were doing, to make use of every
resource by which funds could be procured, can it be doubted
that if they had deemed this to be the case, there would not
have been mention of the fact on the plans which were put in
circulation, and that there would have been effort made to sell
these available rights in order to obtain the much-desired
pecuniary aid? It is certain that the minds of the Commissioners were addressed to the importance and value of the
water lots and of wharfage, because of the many contracts
referring to this subject from the very beginning. The only
inference to my mind permissible from this is, that as the
Commissioners were seeking to obtain the highest possible
price for the water lots, because they enjoyed riparian and
wharfing *rivileges, the thought never entered their mind of
destroying the sale of the water lots by stripping them of
that attribute which gave peculiar value to them.
Let me come now to a circumstance which seems to throw
such copious light on the situation that it is even more conclusive than the facts to which reference has heretofore been
made.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Peckham, JJ.

In September, 1791, Messrs. Johnson and Stuart were succeeded as Commissioners by Messrs. Scott and Thornton. In
May, 1795, Commissioner Stuart was succeeded by Commissioner White. The views of the new Commissioners on the
subject of wharfage were expressed by them in a c6mmunication to the President dated July 24, 1795, the communication
being one transmitting for the President's approval regulations formulated by the Commissioners as the result of their
consideration of "the subject of regulating the building of
wharves." In the communication it was expressly declared
that the regulations had been prepared "with respect to the
private propert y on the water." Referring to the Maryland
act of December 17, 1791, which conferred the power to regulate wharfing, the Commissioners said:
"Had the legislature of Maryland been silent on the subject, the holders of water property in the city would have
had a right to carry their wharves to any extent they pleased
under the single restriction of not injuring navigation. The
law of the State is therefore restrictive of that general right
naturally flowing from the free use of property, and ought
not to be construed beyond what sound policy and the necessity of the case may require."
Adverting to the importance of so drafting the regulations
as not to impose restrictions calculated to discourage those
intending to purchase water lots with their appurtenant privileges, the Commissioners said:
"Our funds depend in some measure on sales, and sales on
public confidence and opinion. Any measure greatly counteracting the hopes and wishes of those interested would certainly
be injurious, and ought not to be adopted without an evident
necessity."
Does not the declaration that the rules were adopted with
respect to private property on the water rebut the contention,
now advanced that there was no such property on the water,
because all riparian rights and rights of wharfage were exclusively the property of the public?
'Are these statements of the Commissioners not a complete
answer to the contention that the Maryland act was intended

MORRIS v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Peckham, 33.

to originate rights of wharfing, and not merely to regulate
the exercise of existing rights? At the outset attention was
called to the fact that the Maryland law was passed at the
request of the Commissioners, preferred at a meeting where
Mr. Jefferson and Mr. Madison were present, and that the
very tetrps of the request implied that the Commissioners
desired power to regulate the riparian rights which they
thought were then existing. 1Now, with all the intervening
transactions, comes the letter to the President, showing beyond peradventure the construction and interpretation affixed
to the Maryland act by those to whom it was addressed.
Could Washington, could Jefferson, have remained silent if
the letter of the Commissioners was an incorrect statement
of the understood law on the subject? The declaration of
what the rights of the water lot owners were as to wharfage is as full and complete it seems to me as human language
could make it.
The draft of the proposed regulations adopted by the Commissioners and which was submitted by them to the President
is not in the record, although the communication to the President indicates its character. Correspondence, however, on
the subject ensued between the President represented by the
Secretary of State and the Commissioners. It is to be inferred that the draft of the regulations sent to the President
contained a provision forbidding water lot owners, in the
construction of their wharves, from .erecting on the wharves
any buildings whatever, the intent appearing to be that the
warehouses would be built on the water lot to which the
wharfing privilege was attached. This would indicate that
the Commissioners intended by their regulations to so arrange
that any projected street would not cut off the water rights
and right of wharfage, but would serve merely as a building
line.
Complaint 'on this subject was made by a Mr. Barry, and
such complaint was thus referred to in a letter of Commissioners Scott and Thornton to Secretary of State Randolph,
on May 26, 1795:
"Mr. Barry had purchased on the Eastern Branch, under

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Peckham, JJ.

an idea of immediately building, and carrying on trade, but
refuses to build, on being informed of the restrictions to which
every one must be subject in support of a Water street, which
we presume it was the intention of the executive to keep open to
the wharves, as is the case in Bordeaux and some other cities
in Europe. The inconvenience pointed out by Mr. Barry is
that in unlading vessels it would be necessary to go through
three operations: 1st, taking out the load; 2d, conveying it
across the wharves and Water 8treet to the warehouses;
3dly, by taking it up into the warehouses. Whereas, if the
stores or warehouses were to stand on the water edge of the
wharves, the unlading into the warehouses would only be one
operation, and it would save five per centum, and the same in
loading." .
Observe that there is not an intimation in this communication that the Commissioners or anybody else had .the faintest
conception that the right to wharf did not exist in favor of
the owner of the water lot because of a proposed street, but
there was simply a question as to whether the regulations
should restrict the water lot owner from building warehouses
on his wharves. the wharfing regulations, as adopted, are
annexed in the margin.1 As approved, they contained no
I Building Regulation No. 4.
(Proceedings of Commissioners, p. 408.)
CITY OF WASHINGTOx, July 20th, 1795.
The Board of Commissioners in virtue of the powers vested in them by
the act of the Maryland legislature to license the building of wharves in the
city of Washington, and to regulate the materials, the manner and the extent
thereof, hereby make known to those interested the following regulations:
That all the proprietors of water lots are permitted to wharf and build as
far out into the river Potomac and the Eastern Branch as they think convenient and proper, not injuring or Interrupting the channels of navigation of
the said waters, leaving a space wherever the general plan of the street in
the city requires it, of equal breadth with those streets; which if made by
an individual holding the adjacent property, shall be subject to his separate
occupatibn and use until the public shall reimburse the expense of making
such street, and where no street or streets intersect said wbarf to leave a
space of sixty feet for a street at the termination of every three hundred
-feet of made ground; the buildings on. said wharves or made ground to be
subject to the general regulations for buildings in the city of Washington,

MORRIS v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Peckham, JJ.

restriction on the right of water lot owners to erect warehouses on their wharves, thereby clearly implying that the
complaint of Barry was treated by President Washington as
well founded, and that the regulations were corrected in that
respect before final approval. Comment at much length upon
the regulations is unnecessary, but their perusal refutes the
idea that a street marked upon the plan of the city as running
in front of water lots operated to deprive such water lots
of riparian privileges. The regulations warrant the infer-,
ence that the right of wharfage was intended to attach to such
lots at the boundary of the lot on the water side, and that the
water street was designed to be superimposed upon the water
privileges. The requirement was that when the proprietdr
of the water lot wharfed out in front of hs lot, he should
leave a space for the street, which, upon the plan of the city,
appeared as bounding the lot on the water, and if in so wharfing it became necessary to fill up and make the street, he was
to have the exclusive right of occupancy until reimbursed
"the. expense of making such street."
It will also be observed that in the regulations the right is
recognized, without qualification or reservation of any kind, of
ALL proprietors of water lots to wharf into the river and the
Eastern Branch.
While President Washington had under consideration the
proposed wharfing regulations, Commissioners Scott and
Thornton addressed a letter to Commissioner White on An-gust 12, 1795. A sentence in this communication illustrates
the important nature of the riparian privileges and refutes the
thought that any one then supposed that such a right was received as a favor and was a mere temporary license, revocable
at the pleasure of the Commissioners or of Congress. The
letter discussed the advisability of not requiring a space of
sixty feet to be left between the termination of the wharves
and the channel, and in the course of the comments it was
as declared by the President, wharves to be built of such material as the
proprietors may elect.
By order of the Commissioners:
(Signed)
T. JomNsow, Jr., eo'y.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Peckham, JJ.

said: " Mr. Hloban, agent for Mr. Barry, says the intended
wharf in his case, which he estimates to cost upwards of twenty
thouand dollars,will terminate in four feet water." The regulations, as finally approved, were sent to the Commissioners on
September 18, 1795, by President Washington,with the following communication :
"MOUNT VERNON, 18 Septembher, 1795.
"GENTrLmrN: The copy of the letter which you wrote to
the Secretary of State on the 21 ult., enclosing regulations relative to the wharves and buildings in the Federal City, came to
my hand yesterday.
"If the proprietors of water lots will be satisfied with the
rules therein established for the extension of wharves and
buildings thereon, the regulations will meet my entire approbation, and of their ideas on this head you have no doubt made
some inquiries and decided accordingly.

.

.

Can this letter be reconciled with the theory that proprietors of water lots had no riparian privileges and no right to extend their wharves because of a proposed street? Does not
the letter declare the existence of such rights in unequivocal
terms, and also clearly point out that the words "water lots"
meant property fronting on the river, to which riparian rights
and consequently rights of wharfage attached, despite the presence of the proposed street?
I Mark the declaration of President Washington that he considers the regulations as relating to the extension of wharves
and buildings thereon, clearly implying the right to extend
out the wharves from in front of the water lots, and also showing that he had in his mind the change which.had been made
in the regulations in consequence df the complaint of Mr.
Barry, allowing buildings to be erected by the. owners of water
lots on the wharves which they were entitled to construct.
In addition to these considerations, however, there is one of
much greater import which arises from the letter of Washington, that is, the great importance which he attached to doing
nothing to impair the riparian rights of the owners of water
lots, for he expressly says:

MORRIS v. UNITED STATES.
DiTsenting Opinion: White, Peckham, JJ.

"If the proprietors of water lots will be satisfied with the
rules therein established for the extension of wharves, and
buildings thereon, the regulations will meet my entire approbation."
If the rights of the owners of water lots were not deemed
by him a matter of grave importance, why should one so scrupulously careful as Washington always was have declared, in
a public document, that the satisfaction of the lot owners with
the regulations constituted one of the moving causes for-affixing his approval to them? Can it be said that Washington
would have subordinated the execution of a public duty to the
approval of private individuals who had no special rights in the
matter?
It seems to me that this declaration on his part obviously
implied that, as by the results of the contracts made with the
former proprietors, under his influence and at his suggestioi,
they had given up their property upon the condition of anequal division, he was unwilling tlhat anything should be done
to deprive them of a part of their equal rights, and therefore
he would not approve, any regulation which he considered
bad such an effect. In other words; from reasons of public
honor and public faith, he deemed it his duty to protect the
rights of the owners of water lots. This obligation of public
honor and public faith. thus, it seems to me, expressly declared
by Washington, rests, in my judgment, upon the nation today and should be regarded. As I see the facts, it ill'becomes
the nation nowi when the,rights have been sanctified by years
of possession, to treat them as if they had never existed, and
thus disregard the obligations of the public trust which Washington sought so sedulously to fulfil.
Mr. Barry, whose proposal to build a wharf has been above
set forth, and at whose complaint the regulations were presumably amended so as to allow the building of a warehouse
on the wharves, it would seem after the adoption of the regulations feared -another difficulty. Certain lots situated in
square 1o. 771, which had been sold by the Commissioners
to Greenleaf under the express statement that they were en-"
titled to the wharfing privilege, had been conveyed to Barry

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Peckham, JJ.

as the assignee of Greenleaf. The regulations, as I have observed, provided that the wharf owner should where the plan
of the city exhibited a street and at every three hundred feet
leave a space for a street. Barry, conceiving the idea that a
projected street (Georgia avenue) which would run across his
wharf, would under his complaint previously made impair the
utility of his wharf, entered into negotiations with the Commissioners on the subject. The majority of the Commissioners
addressed him the following letter:
"CITY OF WASHINGTON, 5th Oct., 1795.
"Smn: We have had your favor of the 3d inst., too late on
that day to be taken up, as the board were about rising.
"It will always give us the greatest pleasure to render every
possible aid to those who are improving in the city, especially
on so large a scale as you have adopted. We think with you
that an imaginary continuation of Georgia avenue through a
considerable depth of tide water, thereby cutting of the water
privilege of square 771 to wharf to the channel, too absurd to
form a part of the plan of the city of Washington. That it
never was a part of the plan that such streets should be continued through the water, and that your purchase in square
771 gives a perfect right to wharf to any extent in front or
south of the property purchased by you not injurious to the
navigation and to erect buildings thereon agreeably to the
regulations published."

In other words, the Commissioners agreed to relieve him
from the effect of the wharfing regulations. Because, in the
letter of the Commissioners, the words are used "thereby
cutting off the water privilege of square 771 to wharf to the
channel," it has been argued that the Commissioners must
have thought that the existence of a street in front of a water
lot, between it and the water, would technically operate to
deprive the lot of its riparian privileges. But this overlooks
the entire subject-matter to which the letter of the Commissioners related. They were dealing with the operation which
a projected street would have, as complained of by Barry, on
a wharf when built, and not with the riparian right to wharL

MORRIS v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Feckham-JJ.

to the channel, -which was conceded: Indeed, this becomes
peifectly clear when it is considered that the square referred.
to had been the subject not long before of express representations by the Commissioners to various would-be purchasers
that it possessed wharfing privileges. This letter of the Commissioners also contains a statement which shows their estimate of the theory that a merely projected street in front of a
water lot should cut off riparian privileges, since they declare
that such an effect to be given to an imaginary street was, to
use their language, "too absurd" to be considered.,
The period following the approval of the wharfing regulations by General Washington affords other illustrations of the
sale of water lots and the granting of licenses to lot owners to
wharf across the street in front of their property- in other
words, to enjoy their riparian rights - which I do not deem it
essential to enumerate in detail, as they are simply cumulative
of the examples which I have already given.
There is an interval of about fifteen months during this time
where the records of the Commissioners no longer exist, and
therefore approach is at once made to the Dermott map, which
was transmitted by the Commissioners to the President on
March 2, 1797. The court has inserted a reduced reproduction
simply of that portion of this map on which is delineated the
water front from the Long Bridge up the Eastern Branch, and
this will answer the purpose of elucidating what I have to say
in connection with the map.
On June 15, 1795, Dermott had been "directed to prepare
a plat of the city with every public appropriation plainly and
distinctly delineated." In consequence of departures made
from the Ellicott map, resulting from changes in the public
reservations or corrections of mistakes which were developed
as existing by subsequent surveys, as well as from the creation
of new squares and the obliteration of some old ones, it resulted
that the Ellicott plan no longer accurately portrayed the exact
situation of the city, and the Dermott map, when completed,
exhibited the result of all such changes.
It was strenuously claimed in argument that this map was
the final and conclusive plan of the city, and that an inspection
VoL

cmxxxv-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Peckham, JJ.

of it disclosed that the proposed water street marked on the
plans of L'Enfant and Ellicott was omitted. The court finds
that this map was only one step in the evolution of the city,
and that whilst it is true that it did not mark Water street
along the whole front of the city, it nevertheless delineated a
line binding the front, which the court considers indicates that
a Water street was either then projected or contemplated in
the future to exist in accordance with the face of the L'Enfant
and Ellicott maps. Whilst to my mind the line in question is
but a demarcation of the tide line, this is immaterial; for it is
conceded arguendothat the plan is what it is now decided to be.
-One thing, however, is plainly noticeable on the Dermott
map, viz., that whilst the line which it is now held indicates
the fixed purpose to there locate a street is patent, Water street
is not named upon the map at that locality, and such a street
is only named in a short space from square 1079 to square east
of square 1025. How the Water street came to be delineated
and named at this particular locality.by Dermott is shown by
an order made by the Commissioners on March 22, 1796, directing the surveyor to "run Water street to eighty feet wide
from square 1079 to square east of square 1025, and run out
the squares next to the water and prepare them for division."
In other words, at the one place on Dermott's map where a
Water street is specifically stated to exist, it is shown that it
was the result of a precise order to that effect given by the
Commissioners. That the Commissioners could not have considered that. this order cut off riparian rights from the water
lots within the area in question is shown by the evidence in
the record, which establishes that the lots there abutting on
Water street were sold by the Commissioners as water lots,
subsequent to the order referred to and with water privileges
attached. (Square 1067, August 15, 1798, 1079 and 1080, November 9, 1796, and October 24, 1798 ; east of 1025, December
5, 1798.)
On the Dermott map was noted, as already mentioned, the
changes and corrections which bad taken place in the intervening time to which I have referred.
The Dermott map also makes clear this fact that, as by the

MORRIS v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Peckham, JJ.

result of the surveys, in most instances, the measurement of
the squares - certainly in front of Notley Young's land carried them down to, or substantially to, the water line
along the river bank, that the projected Water street, taking
the line as delineating such street, was proposed to be established, in great part at least, in the water.
It seems to me, after what has been said, nothing further
is required to show that, granting that the line on the Dermott map was intended to indicate a proposed street, it was
not thereby the intention to abolish the distinctive' characteristics of water lots and the riparian privileges which were
appurtenant to them. Dermott himself was familiar with all
the previous transactions, having been in the service of the
city from early in 1792. He had made changes as reported
in the situation of particular pieces of property in order to
preserve the riparian rights and give them fruition. He
stated to the Commissioners in 1799 (long after it is alleged
his plan was approved by Washington) that riparian rights
had been the basis of purchases, and that assurances and
explanations as to their existence had caused purchases to be
made which otherwise would not have taken place. He had
supervised the division in Carrollsburgh, which preserved the
riparian rights. In other words, he had dealt with the whole
matter, as an officer of the city, upon the assured assumption
of the existence of the riparian rights attached to water lots.
In no instance, except in a few cases of an exceptiohal character, had he questioned such rights. And when, in 1799, he
gave a summary of the prior dealings of the Commissioners in
relation to water property - as to which, as stated, he was
personally familiar- he observed, after stating that in some
special instances squares touching or binding upon the water
were not given the privilege of wharfing, in which case they
were sold and divided as apland lots, he said as a sure criterion that a lot was a "water lot" and, as a corollary, was
entitled to "water privileges;" that "where squares were
entitled to water privileges, in the sales these were sold by the
front.foot, or the privilege generally mentioned to the purchasers."

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Peckham, 33.

Under these circumstances to suppose that the line drawn,
on Dermott's plan, along the river, whether it indicated a
projected street or the line of tide water, was intended to cut
off the riparian rights, would attribute to him a conduct so
inconsistent, not to use harsher words, as to be beyond explanation. And whenthe approval by President Washington of the
Dermott plan is weighed, it strikes me as an express sanction
by him of the existence of the riparian rights and wharfing
privileges, as attached to water lots, especially in view of all
the transactions to which reference has been made, and particularly in view of his language in approving the wharfing
regulations, in which ie said: "If the proprietors of water
lots will. be satisfied with the rules therein established for the
extension of -wharves and buildings thereon, the regulations
will meet my entire approbation."
During this period occurred the controversy between :Nicholas King and the Commissioners, which led to a communication on June 25, 1798, which it is claimed contains language
importing generally that the Commissioners denied that
wharfing privileges attached to a lot when separated from
the water by a street. But this inference, in view of all the
circumstances, is unwarranted. M1 r.. King left the employ of
the city in September, 1797, and thereafter looked after the
interests of some of the original proprietors. As representing
Robert Peter he wrote to the Commissioners on June 27, 1798,
urging in substance that the wharfing regulations should be
made more definite and complete. He enumerated a number
of water squares owned by Mr. Peter as entitled to riparian
privileges, and without expressly declaring that square 22 Was
a water square, suggested that the dimensions of that square
as then platted should be enlarged rather than that a new
square should be formed from the low ground on the south,
thus implying that the square a8 enlarged would be bounded on
the water side by a street. In answering this communication
the Commissioners said in reference to square 22:
"With respect to square No. 22, we do not conceive that
it is entitled to any water privileges as a street intervenes
between it and the water; but, as there is some high ground

MORRIS v. UJNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Peckham, JJ.

between the Water street and the water, we have no objection to laying out a new square between Water street and the
channel, and divide such square, when laid out, so as to mal&e
it as beneficial to Mr. Peter and the public as circumstances
will admit."
That the Commissioners did not intend to assert that a
merely projected street appearing on a plan of the city would
take a square adjacent to the water out of the category of
water property is evident from the fact that they did not dispute Mr. King's assertion that the other squares enumerated
in his letter which were bounded, on the plan of the city, on
all sides by streets, were possessed of riparian privileges.
The Commissioners evidently assumed that there was fast
land of the entire dimensions of a street south of square 22,
and also other fast land between that street and the water,
and that the particular locality justified treating square 22 as
upland property, and called for the creation of a new square
to the south. It is to be remarked also that the Commissioners were dealing, not with would-be purchasers, but with the
representative of the -former proprietor, with wh6m it was
competent to agree that in view of circumstandes, such as
stated, a square might be laid partly in the water below a
street, which square should be the "water square" to which
the riparian privileges should attach. As these very Commissioners, about this very time, sold lots as possessed of.riparian
privileges where a street was contemplated towards the water
and where some fast land existed, (as in the case of squares
1067, 1079, 1080 and east of 1025, .to which we have already
referred as facing that portion of Water street expressly named
on the Dermott map,) it is evident that the statement in question was not meant as a general declaration in the broad sense
which might be ascribed to it if the circumstances under which
it was made were not considered.
The examination of the events which transpired in the second period is concluded with mentioning that the Commissioners, at various times, made reports to the President, by
whom they were transmitted to Congress. In each of these
reports they gave a statement of the public property in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Peckham, JJ.

city of Washington, distinguishing between "upland" and
"water" property, describing the latter by the number of feet
frontage on the water, and stating the average price which
had been realized on the sales of water lots in the past by the
front foot. This latter was a criterion which Dermott had
previously declared to the Commissioners was one of the
conclusive tests for determining whether a lot was entitled
to be classed as a water lot, possessed of riparian rights and
wharfing privileges. In none of these reports was the claim
made that the public possessed all riparian rights as appurtenant to an existing or proposed street. Certainly such a
claim would have been advanced - especially as the reports
in question were made with a view to legislation authorizing
the borrowing of money on the security of all the public
property. The same remarks also apply to the forwarding
of a copy of the plan of the city, in the same period, to a firm
in Amsterdam, through whom the representatives of the city
were endeavoring to negotiate a loan. The public property
was marked upon that plan, but no intimation was given of
the existence of riparian rights distinct from the squares
appearing upon the plan. Can it be considered that, when
all the public property was being tendered as a security for
money proposed to be borrowed, so valuable a right as the
entire wharfing privileges and riparian rights of the city,
if believed to be concentrated in its hands as appurtenant toa proposed street, would not even have been referred to or
tendered in order to aid in the consummation of the desired
loan
The facts which I have reviewed are not the only ones
establishing the universal admission and acceptance of the
existence of riparian rights as attached to water lots during
the period examined. Many others tending in the same direction are found in the record, and are not referred to because
they are merely cumulative. Among one of the facts not
fully reviewed is the presumption which it seems to me arises
from the book described as the register of squares. The importance and sustaining power of the results of this book are
substantially conceded by the court, but it is held that the

MORRIS v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Peckham, 3J.

book ought not to be treated as controlling. Grant this to be
so; yet the power of the implications resulting from the book,
when considered in connection with the other proof to which
I have adverted, seems unquestionable. The book, however, is
not reviewed at length, since it simplifies examination to refer
only to such matters of proof as are unquestioned in the
record and are undenied in the opinion of the Court; and all
the facts which I have above stated come under this category.
By these means, which have been merely outlined, the
difficulties which beset the establishment of the city were
overcome, and the seat of government at the time provided for
in the act of Congress was transferred to its present location.
Before passing to the third period of time it seems to me
well for a moment to analyze the situation as resulting frQm
the events which have been narrated. One or two considerations arise by necessary implication from them. Either that
all parties concerned in the foundation of the city contemplated that a space should separate the building line from the
wharves, so as to have free communication along the river
front, without impairing the rights of the owners of the water
lots, or that they contemplated a street, the fee ot which
would be in the public along the whole river front; and,
ignorant of the legal consequence of such a street, proceeded
to dispose of the greater part of the water lots upon the express understanding that riparian rights would attach across
the street just as if the street had not been contemplated, and
that upon this understanding everybody contracted and the
rights of every one were adjusted and finally settled. For
the purpose of this dissent it becomes wholly immaterial to
determine which of these propositions-is true, because if either
be so - as one or the other must be - then the riparian rights,

in my opinion, should be adjudged to exist. It seems to me,
however, that the first hypothesis is the one naturally to be
assumed. It must be borne in mind that L'Enfant, the
engineer selected by President Washington to draw the
plan of the city, was a Frenchman. It is in evidence that he
requested Mr. Jefferson to send him plans of European cities,

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Peckham, JJ.

and that his request was complied with. Thus Mr. Jefferson
wrote: "I accordingly send him by this post plans of Frankfort-on-the-Main, Carlsruhe, Amsterdam, Strasburg, Paris,
Orleans, Bordeaux, Lyons, Montpelier, Marseilles, Turin and
Milan, on large and accurate scales, which I procured while
in those towns respectively." The fair presumption is that
L'Enfant's request of Mr. Jefferson was the result of a previous communication to him by Mr. Jefferson that he possessed
thedesired information, for it is impossible to conceive, with
all this information in his possession, that Mr. Jefferson, who
must have come in contact with L'Enfant, would not have
stated to him the fact. It is also fairly to be assumed that, as
Mr. Jefferson had procured in ferson when abroad the plans
of all these foreign cities, he was looking forward to them
as means of information and guidance to be used for the
future Federal City; otherwise he would not have undertaken
such a labor. That Mr. Jefferson was familiar with the plans
is of course manifest; for, with his phenomenal faculty of
reaching out for sources of information on all subjects and
storing his mind therewith for future use, it is impossible to
conceive that he had not vividly before him the method by
which the cities in question were laid out. Now, it is especially to be remembered that every one of the cities mentioned
by Mr. Jefferson, the plans of which he had forwarded, were
on the continent of Europe, that is, were situated in countries
governed by the general principles of the civil law. By that
law, whilst lot owners fronting on a navigable river have the enjoyment of riparian rights, this right vested in them is subject
to what the civilians denominate a legal servitude, that is, an
easement, by which they are compelled to leave around the
entire river front an open space or way in order to afford convenient Acess to the water by the public. Whilst this open
way may be used by everybody, it does not cut off the riparian rights, but is simply superimposed upon those rights, the
lot owner having the enjoyment of the rights, but being
obliged to furnish the open space which the public may
use. (Civil Code of Louisiana, Art. 665; Dubose v. Levee
Commissioners, 11 La. Ann. 165; Code Napoleon, Art. 650,

MORRIS v. UNITED STATES.

345

Dissenting Opinion: White, Peckham, JJ.

and note to the article in. question in the Annotated Code by
Fuzier-Herman (Paris, 1885), p. 880.)
Is it not natural to presume, in view of the country from
which L'Enfant came, in the light of the plans which Mr.
Jefferson sent hinf and of the knowledge which Mr. Jefferson
had acquired of these plans, and by the personal investigation
which he had made in procuring them, that the L'Enfant plan
but exhibited the principle of legal servitude as embodied in
the civil law? When one looks at the L'Enfant plan and
bears in mind the civil law rule, it strikes me that the plan
but illustrates and carries out that rule.
Strength is added to this view by considering the Maryland
law. of 1791 conferring authority upon the Commissioners to
regulate wharfage and giving other directions as to the city.
That law was passed at the request of the Commissioners,
preferred at a meeting held when Mr. Jefferson and Mr.
Madison were present. It may properly be assumed that the
draft of so important a law was, before its passage, submitted
to President Washington and his advisers. :Now, the Maryland statute contains two provisions, then and now existing
in substantially all civil law countries, but at that time not
usual in countries controlled by the common law; that is,
a provision for a builder's lien, and one directing that houses
or buildings should be erected in accordance with the rule of
party walls. Was this then new departure discovered by a
member of the Maryland legislature, or was it not rather suggested because it prevailed in the continental cities, the mind
of Jefferson being then directed to the rule in those cities, as
it was upon the plans prevailing in them that the proposed
capital was to be laid out? This view is greatly fortified by
the wharfing regulations, which were .formulated by the Commissioners and approved by the President. It will be seen
that they provided that when a wharf was to be extended by
the proprietor of a water lot a space should be left for a street
wherever the general plan of the city required it, and at intervals of three hundred feet a space of sixty feet should be
left for new streets. There is an analogy between the regulations in question and section 38 of the French ordinance of

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Peckham, JJ.

1669 on the same subject. (Code Civil, by Fuzier-Herman
(Paris, 1885), p. 880, note 1 to article 650, where the text of
the French ordinance is stated in full.)
But we are not left to mere resemblance on this subject, for
there exists the express declaration of the Commissioners to
the effect that they considered that the continental rule governed in the plan of the city as to the wharves, which declaration was in effect approved by Washington himself. After
the proposed wharfing regulations had been submitted to the
President and while they were under consideration, the complaint of Mr. Barry was made, to which reference has been
made, and the letter was written by the Commissioners to
the Secretary of State regarding such complaint and explaining the nature thereof. Now, in that letter, in giving their
reasons why, by the regulations which they finally submitted,
the Commissioners had restricted the erection of buildings
on the wharves, they referred to the open space, and added
"which we presume it was the intention of the executive to
keep open to the wharves as is the case in Bordeaux and some
other cities of Europe." This must have been derived from
an antecedent knowledge of the purposes of the plan. It
must have been approved by Washington, for it is impossible
to believe that with this important explanation made to the
Secretary of State for submission to the President, when he
was considering whether he would approve the regulations,
he'should not have corrected such a misapprehension if it was
such. Besides, the general conditions involved in the foundation of the Federal City persuasively indicate why Washington and Jefferson and Madison should have established the
city upon the continental plans, with which not only Jefferson but L'Enfant was familiar. The contracts with the proprietors required an equal division, those with the lot owners
in Carrollsburgh and Hamburgh an allotment of one half the
quantity of their former land in a like or as good a situation.
As the laying off of a street so as to take away the riparian
privileges of former water lot owners would be incompatible
with an -equal division or one in like situation, there was a
serious difficulty in so doing. On the other hand, not to

MORRIS v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Peckham, JJ.

keep an open way for public access might well have been
conceived as injurious to the public interests. The theory of
an easement furnished a ready solution for this otherwise insuperable difficulty. It afforded an apt means' of protecting
all the rights of the water lot owners by preserving their
riparian rights and wharfing privileges, and at the same time
it afforded full protection to the rights of the public by keeping an open space on the water front, subject, it is true, to
the exercise of riparian rights, but in no way interfering
with public utility. Another consideration bears this view
out. That it was hoped that the means for establishing the
city to be derived from the sale of lots would be readily aided
by the purchase of lots by residents of France and Holland
is shown by the record, for among the first uses made of the
engraved plan was to send copies thereof to the continent in
the hope of stimulating there a desire to purchase, and the
record shows that a member of the Amsterdam firm, heretofore referred to, actually purchased lots in the city with
reference to the plan. Now, the sagacious men who were
Washington's advisers must have seen at once that the plan
preserving the riparian rights, and giving access at the same
time to the river front, in accordance with the system which,
it may be assumed, existed in the countries where it was
hoped that money would be obtained, was much more likely
to accomplish the desired result than the adoption of a contrary plan.
But the strongest argument in support of this theory of the
purpose of Washington and the object contemplated by the
plan, is that if it be adopted all the facfs in the record are
explained and rendered harmonious, one with the other. The
plans over which controversy has arisen all then coincide.,
The reason why so much of Water street was laid in the
water becomes apparent. The contracts for the sale of water
lots with riparian rights attached, the reports of the surveyors
and the action of the Commissioners, all blend into a harmonious and perfect whole, working from an original conception
to a successful consummation of a well-understood result. The
contrary view produces discord and disarrangement, and leads

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Peckham, JJ.

to the supposition either that the plan of a street, cutting off
riparian rights, was devised in ignorance of its legal result and, of course, I have not the audacity to make such suggestion
as to Washington and Jefferson and Madison, and Mr. Justice
Johnson of this court, and all the other wise men who lent
their aid to the establishment of the city- or that the plan of
the street, in that sense, having been devised it was at once
departed from because it was discovered that it was not only
in conflict with the rights of the lot owners, but also would
destroy the sale of the water lots, hence all the contracts and
dealings and declarations to which I have referred ensued.
But if the theory that the plan of establishing an easement
was adopted be not true, and it be conceded that it was the
intention to lay out a street, in the fullest sense of that word,
which would cut off the riparian rights, such conclusion, in
my judgment, would not at all change the result in this case,
for in that event, Isubmit, that the contracts and dealings
and representations and admissions, upon which the lot owners
dealt and upon which everybody acted in changing their respective positions, brings into play the principle of estoppel
and compels, in accordance with the elemefhtary principles of
equity, that the riparian rights and rights of wharfage which
were bought and paid for, and which were solemnly declared
to exist in every conceivable form, should now be respected.
It would thus seem from the events of the two periods that
the riparian rights of the water lot owners were conclusively
established, and that it is unnecessary for me, in considering
the last and final period, to do anything more than to state
that nothing therein occurred by which the water lot owners
abandoned or were legally deprived of their rights. But, from
abundant precaution, let me, in a condensed form, refer to the
events of the third period, simply to show that the riparian
rights of water lot owners continued to be recognized down to
so recent a period as the year 1863, and were not thereafter
interfered with in such manner as to give even color to the
contention that the rights were transferred to the Government.
3. Events subsequent to March 2, 1797.
The legislation by Congress and the municipality of Wash-

MORRIS v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Peckham, JJ.

ington with respect to wharfing practically constitutes the
only facts necessary to be considered in any review of this
period. That legislation, I submit, until a comparatively
recent date, in nowise imported a denial of private ownership
of wharfing rights 4s attached to water lots, but, on the contrary, establishes their existence.
I first premise as to the existence of public wharves.
On one of the water lots of Hamburgh there existed in
June, 1791, what was termed the "City Wharf." On the
plat of survey of square 89 this wharf appeared, on lot 10, as
"1Commissioners' Wharf." Lot 10 was retained for the public. On January 26, 1801, the proceedings of the Commissioners recite that a ." representation," which was set out, had
that day been sent to the President. In it the public property of the city was enumerated, and in the course of such
enumeration the statement was made that " Four wharves
have been built at the expense of $3221.88, which remain in a
usefUZ 8tate." As I have heretofore shown, a number of private wharves had been built prior to 1800, three of which
appear on the Dermott map, but in the representation no'claim
is advanced, that such wharves werepublic property.
The act of Congress of May 1, 1802, c. 41, 2 Stat. 175, abolished the Commissioners and vested their powers in a superintendent. The act of May 3, 1802, 2 Stat. 195, incorporated
the inhabitants of the city. In 1802, as we have seen, there
were at least four, and perhaps five, wharves, which were
owned by the public. While authority was given to the corporation of Washington, by the act of May 3, 1802, to "regulate the stationing, anchorage and mooring of vessels," no
authority to license or regulate the building of wharves was
given. Presumably as to private wharves, the regulations of
1795 were deemed to be in force.
I pause here to interrupt the chronological review of the
legislation as to wharfing, to call attention to a report, bearing date September 25, 1803, made by Nicholas King, as surveyor of the city, to President Jefferson on the subject of a
water street and wharves, simply because this communication
is referred to in the opinion of the court. It is submitted

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Peckham, JJ.

that on the face of the communication, instead of tending
to show that there was question as to the existence of the
wharfing rights, it, on the contrary, expressly asserts their
existence and relates only to their definition and regulation.
Indeed, the main purpose of the communication seems to have
been,'a complaint that the wharfing regulations as originally
proposed should have been approved by President Washington without striking out the clause which forbade the wharf
owners from building on their wharves. And all this becomes
very clear when it is considered that Surveyor King, by whom
the letter was written, was the same person who in previous
years had avowedly asserted the existence of riparian rights
in favor of a former proprietor, Robert Peter, and made claim
in relation thereto.
The apt of February 24, 1804, c. 14, 2 Stat. 254,gave the
city councils power to "preserve the navigation of the Potomac and Anacostia Rivers adjoining the city; to erect, repair
and regulate public wharves, and to deepen docks and basins."
While, under the authority conferred "to preserve navigation," private wharves could have been regulated, manifestly
no such power could have been exercised under an authority
to "erect and RErAni and regulate jublic wharves."

That private wharves were not regarded as public wharves
is clearly evidenced in the ordinance of July 29, 1819, (Burch's
Dig. 126,) passed under the authority granted by the act of
1804 "to preserve the navigation of the Potomac." The act
reads as follows:
"SEC. 1. That the owners of private wharves or canals, and
canal wharves, be obliged to keep them so in repair as to
prevent injury to the navigation.
"SEc. 2. That no wharf shall hereafter be built, within
this corporation, without the plan being first submitted to the
mayor, who, with a joint committee from the two boards of
the city council, shall examine the same, and if it shall appear
to their satisfaction that no injury could result to the navigation from the erection of such wharf, then, and in that
case, it shall be the duty of the mayor to issue a written
permission for the accomplishment of the object, which per-

MORRIS v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Peckham, JJ.

mit shall express how near such wharf shall approach the
channel."
How and where, may I ask, did the private wharves originate if no such wharves existed?
That the authority conferred with respect to public wharves
was not supposed to vest power over alU wharves is also indicated in the act of May 15, 1820, c. 104, 3 Stat. 583, which

expressly distinguished the two classes. The corporation was
empowered "to preserve the navigation of the Potomac and
Anacostia Rivers adjoining the city; to erect, repair and
regulate public wharves; to regulate the manner of erecting
and the rates of wharfage at private wharves; to regulate the
stationing, anchorage and mooring of vessels."
The distinctive character of private wharves was still further recognized in the act of the city councils of May 22, 1821,
(Rothwell's Laws, D. 0. 275,) by section 1 of which the mayor
was authorized and requested "to appoint three intelligent
and respectable citizens, not being wharf ownerm, as Commissioners to examine and report to the two boards a suitable plan
to be adopted for the manner of erecting wharves upon t e
skore8 of the Anacostia and Potomac Rivers.'
And, by section 2, the mayor was solicited to wait upon the
President, and to request his appointment of such persons as he
might deem proper, to cotiperate with those commissioners.
Again, by resolution of the councils, approved September 3,
1827, it was enacted "that a committee of two members from
each board be appointed to act, in conjunction with the mayor,
in regulating the mode of erecting wharves," conformably to
section 2 of the act of councils approved July 29, 1819.
Similar recognition of private ownership of wharves is contained in the resolution of the councils of March 19, 1823,
which established "as fish docks," amongst other sites, "the
steamboat wharf on the Potomac, near the bridge over the
Potomac, and at Cana's wharf."
That the preservation of navigation was the controlling
object in the regulation of private wharves is very distinctly
evidenced in the act of councils, approved January 8, 1831,
Corp. Laws 1830-1, p. 34, which, in section 6, repealed the act

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Peckham, JJ.

of councils of July 19, 1819, and in the first section enacted as
follows:
"SEc. 1. That it shall not be lawful for any person or per-

sons to build or erect any wharf or wharves within the limits
of this corporation, who shall not first submit the plan of such
wharf or wharves to the mayor, who, with a joint committee
of the two boards of the city council shall examine the same;
and if it shall appear to their satisfaction that no injury could
result to the navigation from the erection of such wharf or
wharves, then, in that case, it shall be the duty of the mayor
to issue a written permission for the accomplishment of the
object, which permit shall express how near such wharf or
wharves shall approach the channel, and at what angle they
shall extend from the street on which they are erected."
Four years after the enactment last referred to a slight
controversy was precipitated as to the existence of rights of
wharfage as attached to water lots on the Potomac River
between the Long Bridge and the Arsenal grounds. On April
13, 1835, a resolution to the effect that the city had never
attempted, and, without injury to the general interests, could
not admit, the existence of "water rights" of individuals, between the Long Bridge and the Eastern Branch, was indefinitely postponed. A Mr. Force, then a member of the lower
board of the city council, protested against the action thus
taken. We have seen how unfounded was the assumption
contained in this proposed resolution. In 1839, however, Mr.
Force, as mayor of the city, approved a plan of William Elliott for the establishment of Water street and for the regulation of wharfing thereon. I shall, as briefly as possible,
outline the history of the plap :
As surveyor of the city of Washington in 1833, William
Elliott (the subject of "water privileges" then being before
the councils of the city) suggested to William A. Bradley,
mayor of the city, "that system" which was deemed by the
former "best for securing those privileges in the most equitable manner amongst those who own property facing on Water
street, as well as securing the public rights." It was proposed
by Elliott, in his plan No. 2, that Water street, bbsides being

MORRIS v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Peckham, JJ.

conformed to certain particular outlines, be' rendered everywhere not less than one hundred feet in width, between the
Long Bridge and the then Arsenal grounds, and that the construction of wharves and docks -of wharves, by individuals
owning lots on the north side of Water street, and of wharves
or docks, by the public, opposite public appropriations, or the
ends of streets terminating at the north line of Water street
- between that bridge and those grounds, be governed, by
the principle that the Water street front of any such lot,
appropriation or end of street should furnish it a channel
front, only in the proportion existing between the total frontage of Water street, estimated at 5280 feet, and the chord,
estimated at 5050 feet, measuring the total channel frontbetween the Long Bridge and the then Arsenal grounds. The
plan was described on its face as of that part of the city "exhibiting the water lots and Water street and the wharves and
docks thereon, along the Potomac, from E to T street south."
It assigned, in the ratio proposed by Elliott, to every square
on the north side of Water street a wharfing site from the
south side of that street to the "edge of the channel"s of the
Potomac, and to public appropriations and the ends of streets
terminating at Water street, sites for docks or other like uses.
It represented Water street as of varying width, and reduced,
on its southern limits, to a curve lying parallel to that describing the edge of the channel; and the squares, on the north
side of.Water street, to which wharfing sites are assigned, are
designated as "water lots" on the face of the plan. A more
complete recognition of the preexisting riparian rights of the
water lot owners than is shown on and established by this
plan my mind cannot conceive.
On February 22, 1839, the city councils adopted the following resolutions:
"1?e8olution in relation to the manner in which wharves
shall be laid out and constructed on-the Potomac River:
"1?eolved, That the plan No. 2, prepared by the late William Elliott, in eighteen hundred and thirty-five, while surveyor of the city of Washington, regulating the manner in
which wliarves on the Potomac; from the bridge to T street
'VOL.cLxxmv-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Peckham, JJ.

south, and the plan of Water street, shall be laid out, be, and
the same is, adopted as the plan to be hereafter followed in
laying out the wharves and the street on the said river: Provided, The approbation of the President of the United States
be obtained thereto.
"Resolved, also; That the wharves hereafter to be constructed between the points specified in the said plan shall be
so built as to allow the water to pass freely under them; that
is to say, they shall be erected on piers or piles from a wall
running the whole distance on the water line of Water street."
Sheahan's Laws, D. C. 178 (ann. 1857).
These resolutions were approved by the mayor of the city,
Mr. Peter Force.
Before their passage and on February 15, 1839, Secretary
of the Treasury Woodbury, afterwards a Justice of this court,
had referred plan No. 2 of William Elliott to William Noland,
Commissioner of Public Buildings, and (intermediately) the
successor in office of the Commissioners, for the opinion of that
Commissioner upon the judiciousness of the improvement contemplated in the plan.On February 21, 1839, the day following the passage of the
ordinance, Mr. Noland, acknowledging the receipt of the plan
and returning it to the Secretary, reports, "that after due deliberation," he believes "the improvement proposed would be
judicious andproper."
On February 23, 1839, the day following the passage of the
resolutions, the plan, approved by the President, was transmitted by Mr. Woodbury to Mayor Force.
When it is considered that up to the time when the Elliott
plan received the approval of President Van Buren, Water
street, though contemplated, had not been further laid down
than by the establishment of the upper boundary or building
line, this action manifestly possesses great significance. The
fact that action with respect to Water street was incomplete
was expressly stated by Attorney General Lee in his opinion
to President Adams on January 7, 1799, when he said, referring to the Dermott map:
' It is not supposed that this is incomplete in any respect,

MORRIS v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Peckham, JJ.

except in relation to the rights appurtenant to the water
lots and to the street that is to be next to the water courses.
The laying off of Water street, whether done in
part or in whole, will stand in need of the sanction of -the
President."
As in the President of the United States therefore was
vested the authority to complete the plan of the city in any
particular in which it was defective, the approval of President
Van Buren may properly be referred to the exercise of that
power, and as entitled to be regarded as a distinct declaration
that Water street was not to have the operation now asserted
of divesting the water lots fronting towards the river on
Water street of riparian rights. From Washington, then, to
Van Buren, in every form in which it could be done, the riparian rights of the lot holders have been continuously and solemnly sanctioned. I cannot now by any act of mine destroy
them on the theory that they have never existed.
On May 26, 1840, a permit was issued by Mayor Force, by
virtue of the act of June 8, 1831, to William Easby to wharf
in front of some of the water squares which originally- formed
part of the land of Robert Peter, situate on the Potomac.River
near Rock Creek. I set out in the margin 1 the document re1

M]AYOR'S

OFFICE,

WASHnGTON,

May 26, 1810.

William .Easby of the city of Washington having made application for
permission to erect a wharf in front of square No. 12, and extend a wharf
in front of square south of square No. 12, and having submitted to me a plan
of said wharves, which plan has been examined by a joint committee of the
board of aldermen and board of common council, who have certified that
"no injury will result to the nivigation of the river from the erection and
extension of the wharves upon said plan."
Permission is therefore granted to the said. William Easby to erect a
solid wharf the whole extent of square No. 12, in front thereof, and to extend a wharf in front of square south of square No. 12, thirty feet, fifteen
fept of which to be solid, as laid down upon said plan which exhibits the
situation of the wharves aforesaid as proposed-to be built by his letter of
3d of February, 1840.
Which permission is granted on the terms and subject to all the conditions prescribed by the act entitled 11An act to preserve the navigation of
the Potomac and Anacogtia'Rivers, and to regulate the anchoring and mooring vessels therein," approved January 8, 1831; and of any act or joint reso-

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Peckham, JJ.

ferred to, which exhibits that it was for an unlimited time and
with no provision that the wharf should revert to the Government as in permits of very recent date.
That on May 25, 1846, a committee of police, of the lower
part of the city councils, presented to that board a report
which in effect denied the existence of private rights of wharfing may be conceded. Like the resolution of 1835 it was
based upon a superficial inquiry into the subject, and like its
predecessor, the resolution of 1835, was "laid upon the table."
Various acts of the city council, one dated March 8, 1850,
another September 30, 1860, and the other May 3, 1866, appropriating in the aggregate $2600.00 for the repair of sea
walls along the Potomac at points between the Long Bridge
and the Arsenal grounds, are set out as evidence of an assertion by the city of the right of ownership to all the riparian
privileges in that locality. I am unable, however, to see that
these circumstances are entitled to the weight claimed for
them. Under the wharfing regulations of 1795 the ultimate
cost of making a Water street was to be borne by the city,
and a sea wall may well be treated as part of such street.
The evidence in the record also shows that a goodly portion
of the sea wallsalong the Potomac in the locality referred to
was built opposite to the water lots on the north side of Water
street and by the owners of such lots, and that some of such
owners had graded Water street in front of their lots in order
to the exercise of their wharfing privilege. There is nothing
in the record to support the claim that if the city had at any
time constructed a sea wall, it claimed that the wharfing
privileges in front of such wall had been taken away from the
opposite lots. And the ordinance of the city councils of
February 22, 1839, adopting the plan of William Elliott,
clearly rebuts such an inference, for it is there provided that
wharVes thereafter "to be constructed" should "be erected
on piers or piles from a wall running the whole distance of
the water line of Water street." In other words, although in
lution that may hereafter, be passed relating to wharves in the city of
Washington.
PETER FORC.

MORRIS v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Peckham, JJ.

the most solemn form, it was declared that the owners of the
water lots should enjoy their wharfing rights by extending
their wharves from the sea wall towards the channel, yet it is
now argued that the construction of the sea wall destroyed
the right of the lot owners to the wharves built by them in
accordance with the provisions of the ordinance.
That since the act of March 13, 1863, referred to in the
opinion of the court, various enactments have been passed by
the corporation or its representatives, asserting power in the
nature of private ownership over the wharves on Water
street, and not merely the possession of power as trustee for
the purposes of public regulation or the protection of navigaBut it is not claimed nor does it
tion, may be conceded.
appear from the evidence that there has been such interference with or disturbance of the actual possession of the rightful occupants as would constitute an adverse possession in the
city operative to bar the lawful claims of the real owners of
the wharfing privileges. Similar observations are also applicable to the licenses issued by the chief of engineers for the
time being during a part of the period last referred to.
It is not necessary to review the evidence showing the unequivocal possession enjoyed by the wharf owners up to this
time or to state the proof, as to the expenditures of time, labor
or money by the owners of the .water lots along the Potomac
River-upon the faith of the wharfing regulations and the
possession of riparian privileges- the filling in by them of
Water street, the erection of sea walls, the filling in of parts
of the bed of the river beyond Water street, as well as various
other expenditures. Indeed, so self-evident are these things
that the court deems it proper that the, defendants should be
compensated by the Government before being ousted of the
possession of such improvements, as wharves and structures
thereon. If the demands of equity require that the structures
be paid for by the Government, far greater and stronger is the
reason for concluding that the right of property, on the faith
of which the structures were made, should not be denied or
taken away without just compensation. Neither equity nor
reason are subserved, it seems to me, by protecting the mere

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Peckham, JJ.

incidental right whilst uprooting the fundamental principle of
property upon which the incident depends.
Having in what has preceded fully expressed my view of
the existence of the riparian rights as developed from this
record, it remains only to consider certain previous decisions
of this court relied upon and referred to in the opinion of the
court. Nothing in the views above expressed is in any way
affected by the case bf -anNess v. Mayor dc. of W'ashington,
4 Pet. 232. That case determined that the public streets in the
city of .Washington were public property. But the question
in this case lies beyond that and is, first, was there a public
street proposed around the entire river front or a mere creation of an easement superimposed upon the riparian rights?
or, second, granting there was such public street, in view of
the contracts between the original proprietors of the division
of the squares and lots, and of all the contracts and dealings,
can the Government be heard in a case of the character of that
before the court, to deny the existence of riparian rights and
rights of wharfage in the owners of water lots fronting on -the
alleged street? True it is that in Potomac Steamboat Co. v.
Upper Potomac Steamboat Co., 109 U. S. 672, the question
whether a lot fronting on the Potomac iRiver, lying in that
portion of the city formerly constituting the land of Kotley
Young, had riparian rights, was considered and determined
-adversely to the lot owner, on the ground that the lots being
bounded by Water street on the return and plat of survey,
were thereby separated from the river, and hence not entitled
to riparian rights. As I have said, from the principle of law
therein enunciated I do not dissent, but rest my coiclusion on
the facts as they are disclosed in this record. That many of
the facts which have been consideied and stated were not
present in the record in the case, is patent from the opinion in
that case. Certainly, however, it is not contended that the
defendants in this record were either parties or privies to the
case there decided. A conclusion on one condition of fact is
not binding as to another condition of fact between different
parties in a subsequent law suit. I cannot bring my mind to
adopt the inferences deduced by the court in the case just

MORRIS v. UNITED STATES.
Dissenting Opinion: White, Peckham, JJ.

referred to, in view of what I conceive to be the absolutely
conclusive proof establishing the existence df riparian rights
in favor of the owners of water lots in the city of Washington. To deny them, it seems to me, in view of the record now
here, as was said at the outset, would be an act of confiscation.
Of course this is said only as conveying my appreciation of the
facts.
As it is beyond my power by this dissent to enforce the
rights of the owners of water lots to riparian and wharfing
privileges,- it would serve no useful purpose for me to measure
the claims of such owners by the principle which I have endeavored to demonstrate, that is, the existence of the riparian
rights. Suffice it for me to say, therefore, that in my judgment, even granting that such rights exist, the owners thereof
would not be entitled to compensation if the right was impaired or destroyed as the consequence of work done by the
Government in the .bed of the river for the purpose of improving navigation, for all riparian rights are held subject to this
paramount authority. As a consequence, if injury resulted
to riparian rights in the exercise of this controlling governmental power, such injury would be damum absgue injuria.
But I think that where it is simply proposed, as is the case
with many if not all the lots between the Long Bridge and
the Arsenal grounds, to appropriate the riparian rights simply
by an arbitrary line running along the edge of the water on
the map, thereby cutting off all wharves and buildin'gs thereon.
upon the theory that none of the riparian rights segregated
by the line were private property, this is but an appropriation
of private property requiring just compensation. By these
general principles, in my judgment, the rights of the parties
should be determined.
M . JU'sTIoE GRAiY and MR. JusiT.ic MoKENNA were not
present at the argument, and took ifo part in the decision.

