OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Syllabus.

validity. In the theory of the law the constructibn given to
the bonds of this description in the 7iitchell County case is
and always has been the proper one, and as such, we have no
hesitation in following it. So far as judgments rendered in
other cases which are final and unappealable are concerned, a
different question arises.
The judgments of the Court of Appeals and of the Circuit
Court must be
Reversed, and the case remanded to the Circuit Courtfor
the Western District of Texas for Jurther proceedings

in conformity with this opinion.

THE OLINDE RODRIGUES.
APPEAL FRIOM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNrITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
No. 704. Argued April 11, 18, 1899. -Decided

May 15, 1899.

A blockade to be binding must be known to exist.
There is no rule of law determining that the presence of a particular
force is necessary in order to render a blockade effective, but, on the
contrary, the test is whether it is practically effective, and that is a
mixed question, more of fact than of law.
While it is not practicable to define what degree of danger shall constitute
a test of the efficiency of a blockade, it is enough if the danger is real
and apparent.
An effective blockade is one which makes it dangerous for vessels to attempt to enter the blockaded port; and the question of effectiveness is
not controlled by the number of the blockading forces, but one modem'
cruiser is enough as matter of law, if it is sufficient in fact for the purpose, and renders it dangerous for other craft to enter the port.
The blockade in this case was practically dffective, and, until it should be
raised by an actual driving away by the ene.my, it was not. open to a
neutral trader to ask whether, as against a possible superiority of the
enemy's fleet, it was or was not effective in a military sense.
After the captors had put in their proofs, the claimant, without introducing anything further, moved for the discharge and restitution of the
steamship, on the ground of the ineffective character of the blockade
and because the evidence did not justify a decree of condemnation; and
in addition claimed the right to adduce further proofs, if its inotion

THE OLINDE RODIIGUES.
Statement of the Case.
should be denied. Held, that the settled practice of prize courts forbids
the taking of further proof under such circumstances.
The entire record In this case being considered, the court is of opinion
that restitution of the Olinde, Rodrigues should be awarded, without
damages, and that payment of the costs and expenses incident to her
custody and preservation, and of all costs .inthe cause, except the fees
of counsel, should be imposed upon the ship.

Tmis was a libel filed by the United States against the
steamship Olinde Rodrigues and cargo in the District Court
for South Carolina, in a prize cause, for violation of the blockade of San Juan, Porto Rico. The steamship was owned and
claimed by La Compagnie G6n~rale Transatlantique, a French
corporation.
The Olinde Rodrigues left Havre, June 16, 1898, upon -a
regular Voyage on a West Indian itinerary prescribed by the
terms of her postal subvention from the French government.
Her regular course, after touching at Paulliac, France, was
St. Thomas, San Juan, Pori an Platte or Puerto Plata, Cape
Haytien, St. Marque, Port au Prince, Gonaives, and to return
by the same ports, the voyage terminating at Havre. The
proclamation of the President declaring San Juan in a state
of blockade was issued June 27, 1898. The Olinde Rodrigues
left Paulliac June 19, and arrived at St. Thomas July 3, 1898,
and on July 4, in the morning, went into San Juan, Porto
Rico. She was seen by the United States auxiliary cruiser
Yosemite, then blockading the port of San Juan.
On the fifth of July, 1898, the Olinde Rodrigues came out
of the port of San Juan, was signalled by the Yosemite, and
on communicating with the latter asserted that she had no
knowledge of the blockade of San Juan. Thereupon a boarding officer of the Yosemite entered in the log of the Olinde
Rodrigues an official warning of the blockade, and she went
on her way to Puerto Plata and other ports of San Domingo
and Haiti. She left Puerto Plata on her return from these
ports, July 16, 1898, and on the morning of July 17 was captured by the United States armored cruiser New Orleans, then
blockading the port of San Juan, as attempting to enter that
port. A prize crew was put on board and the vessel was

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

taken to Charleston, South Carolina, where she was libelled
as before stated, July 22, 1898. Depositions of officers, crew
and persons on board the steamship were taken by the prize
commissioners in preparatorio,in answer to certain standing
interrogatories, and the papers and documents found on board
were put in evidence. Depositions of officers and men from
the cruiser New Orleans were also taken de bene esse, but
were not considered on the preliminary hearing except on a
motion by the District Attorney for leave to take further
proofs.
The cause having been heard on the evidence in preparato?'io, the District Judge ruled, August 13, for reasons given, that
the Olinde Rodrigues could not, under the evidence as it stood,
be condemned for her entry into the blockaded port of San
Juan on July 4, and her departure therefrom July 5, 1898;
nor for attempting to enter the same port on July 17; but
that the depositions de bene esse justified an order allowing
further proofs, and stated also that an order might be entered,
"discharging the vessel upon stipulation for her value, should
the claimant so elect." 89 Fed. Rep. 105. An order was accordingly entered that the captors have ninety days to supply
further proof "as to the entry of the ' Olinde Rodrigues ' into
the port of San Juan, Porto Rico, on July 4, 1898, and as to
the courses and movements of said vessel on July 17, 1898 ;"
and "that the claimants may thereafter have such time to offer
testimony in reply as may seem proper to the court."
The cargo was released without bond, and on September
16 the court entered an order releasing the vessel on "claimants giving bond by the Compagnie G~n~rale Transatlantique,
its owners, without sureties, in the sum of $125,000 con-ditioned for the payment of $125,000 upon the order of
the court in the event that the vessel should be condemned."
The bond was not given, and the vessel remained in custody.
Evidence was taken on behalf of the United States, and
the cause came on for hearing on a motion by the claimants
for the discharge and restitution of the steamship on the
grounds: (1) That the blockade of San Juan at the time of
the capture of the Olinde Rodrigues was not an effective

THE OLINDE RODRIGUES.
Opinion of the Court.

blockade; (2) That the Olinde Rodrigues was not violating
the blockade when seized.
The District Court rendered an opinion December 13, 1898,
holding that the blockade of San Juan was not an effective
blockade, and entered a decree ordering the restitution of the
ship to the claimants. 91 Fed. Rep. 274. From this decree
the United States appealed to this court and"assigned errors
to the effect: (1) That the court erred in holding that there
was no effective blockade of the port of San Juan on July 17,
1898; (2) That the court erred in not finding that the Olinde
Rodrigues was captured while she was violating the blockade
of San Juan, July 17, 1898, and in not decreeing her condemnation as lawful prize.
Afr. J. P. K. Bryan and _Yr. Awistant Attorney.. General
Hoyt for appellant.
.Mr. Edward K Jone8 for appellee.
Mm CHIEF JusTIcE FuLLEE, after making the above statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

We are unable to concur with the learned District Judge in
the conclusion that the blockade of the port of San Juan at
the time this steamship was captured was not an-effective
blockade.
To be binding; the blockade must be known, and the blockading force must be- present;, but is there any rule of law
determining that the presence of a particular force is essential
in order to render a blockade effective? We do not think so,
but on the contrary, that the test is whether the blockade is
practically effective, and that that is a questioii, though a
mixed one, more of fact than of law.
The fourth maxim of the Declaration of Paris, (April 16,
1856,) was: "Blockades, in order to be binding, must be effective, that is to say, maintained by a force sufficient really
to prevent access to the coast of the enemy." Manifestly
this broad definition was not intended to be literally applied.
vOL. CLXXr-38

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion. of the Court.

The object was to correct the abuse, in the early part of the
century, of paper blockades, where extensive coasts were put
under blockade by proclamation, without the presence of any
force, or an inadequate force; and the question of what might
be sufficient force was necessarily left to be determined according to the particular ciicumstances.
This was put by Lord Russell in his note to Mr. Mason of
February 10, 1861, thus: "The Declaration of Paris was in
truth directed against what were once termed 'paper blockades;' that is, blockades not sustained by any dctual force, or
sustained by a notoriously inadequate naval force, such as an
occasional appearance of a man-of-war in the offing or the
like.

.

.

The interpretation, therefore, placed by Her

.

Majesty's government on the Declaration was, that a blockade, in order to be respected by neutrals, must be practically
effective.

.

.

.

It is proper to add, that the same view

of the meaning and effect of the articles of the Declaration of
Paris, oni the subject of blockades, which is above explained,
was taken by the representative of the United States at the
Court of St. James (Mr. Dallas) during the communications
which passed between the two governments some years before
the present war, with a view to the accession of the United
States to that Declaration." Hall's Int. Law, § 260, p. 730,
note.
The quotations from the Parliamentary debates, of May,
1861, given by Mr. Dana in note 233 to the eighth edition of
Wheaton on International Law, afford interesting illustrations
of what was considered the measure of effectiveness; and an
extract is also there given from a note of the Department of
Foreign Affairs of France of September, 1861, in which that
is defined: "Forces sufficient to prevent the ports being approached without exposure to a certain danger."
In The .Hercurius, 1 0. Rob. 80, 81, Sir William Scott
stated: "It is said, this passage to the Zuyder Zee was not in
a state of blockade; but the ship was seized immediately on
entering it; and I know not what else is necessary to constitute blockade. The powers who formed the armed neutrality in the last war, understood blockade in this sense; and

THE OLINDE RODRIGUES.
Opinion of the Court.

Russia, who was the principal party in that confederacy, described a place to be in a state of blockade, when it is dangerous to attempt to enter into it."
And in The Fr'ederick.Alolke, 1 C. Rob. 86, the same great
jurist said: "For that a legal blockade did exist, results
necessarily from these facts, as nothing farther is necessary
to constitute blockade, than that there should be a force
stationed to prevent communication, and a due notice, or
prohibition given to the party."
Such is the settled doctrine of the English and American
courts and publicists, and it is embodied in the second of the
instructions issued by the Secretary of the Navy, Jane 20,
1898, General Order No. 492: "A blockade to be effective
and binding must be maintained by a force sufficient to render
ingress to or egress from the port dangerous."
Clearly, however, it is not practicable to define what degree
of danger shall constitute a test of the efficiency and validity
of a blockade. It is enough if the danger is real and-apparent.
In The Franciska, 2 Spinks, 128, Dr. Lushington, in passing on the question whether the blockade imposed on the
port of Riga was an effective blockade, said: "What, then, is
an efficient blockade, and how has it been defined, if, indeed,
thQ term ' definition' can be applied to such a subject? The
one definition mentioned is, that egress or entrance shall be
attended with evident danger; another, that of Chancellor
Kent, (1 Kent's Com. 146,) is, that it shall be apparently dangerous. All these definitions are and must be, from the nature
of blockades, loose and uncertain; the maintenance of a
blockade must always be a question of degree, - of the degree
of danger attending ships going into or leaving a blockaded
port. Nothing is further from- my intention, nor, indeed,
more opposed to my notions of the Law of Nations, than arfy
relaxation of the rule that a blockade must be efficiently
maintained; but it is perfectly obvious that no force could
bar the entrance to absolute certainty; that vessels may get
in and get out during the night, or fogs,. or violent winds, or
occasional absence; that it is most difficult to judge from
numbers alone."

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

"It is impossible," says -Mr.Hall, (§ 260,) "to fix with any
accuracy the amount of danger in entry which is necessary to
preserve the validity of a blockade. It is for the prize courts
of the belligerent to decide whether in a given instance a
vessel captured for its breach had reason to suppose it to be
non-existent; or for the neutral government to examine, on
the particular facts, whether it is proper to withhold or to
withdraw recognition."
In The Hofnung, 6 0. IRob. 112, 117, Sir William Scott said:
"When a squadron is driven off by accidents of weather,
which must have entered into the contemplation of the belligerent imposing the blockade, there is no reason to suppose that
such a circumstance would create a change of system, since it
could not be expected that any blockade would continue many
months, without being liable to such temporary interruptions.
But when a squadron is driven off by a superior force, a new
course of events arises, which may tend to a very different disposition of the blockading force, and which introduces therefore a very different train of presumptions, in favor of the
ordinary freedom of commercial speculations. In such a case
the- neutral merchant is not bound to foresee or to conjecture
that the blockade will be resumed." And undoubtedly a
blockade may be so inadequate, or the negligence of the belligerent in maintaining it may be of such .acharacter, as to
excuse neutral vessels from the penalties for its violation.
Thus in the case of an alleged breach of the blockade of the
island of Martinique, which had been carried on by a number
of vessels on the different stations, so communicating with
each other as to be able to intercept all vessels attempting to
enter the ports of the island, it was held that their withdrawal
was a neglect which "necessarily led neutral vessels to believe
these ports might be entered without incurring any risk."
The Vaney, 1 Acton, 57, 59.
But it cannot be that a vessel actually captured in attempting to enter a blockaded port, after warning entered on
her log by a cruiser off that port only a few days before, could
dispute the efficiency of the force to which she was subjected.
As we hold that an effective blockade is a blockade so effec-

THE OLINDE RODRIGUES.
Opinion of the Court.

tive as to make it dangerous in fact for vessels to attempt to
enter the blockaded port, it follows that the question of effectiveness is not controlled by the number of the blockading force.
In other words, the position cannot be maintained that one
modern cruiser though sufficient in fact is not sufficient as
matter of law.
Even as long ago as 1809, in The Nancy, 1 Acton, 63, where
the station of the vessel was sometimes off the port of Trinity
and, at others, off another port more than seven miles distant,
it was ruled that: "Under particular circumstances a single
vessel'may be adequate to maintain the blockade of one port
and co6perate with other vessels at the same time in the blockade of another neighboring port;" although there Sir William
Grant relied on the opinion of the commander on that station
that the force was completely adequate to the service required
to be performed.
The ruling of Dr. Lushington in The .Franciska,above cited,
was to that effect, and the text bookis refer to other instances.
The learned District Judge, in his opinion, refers to the
treaty between France and Denmark of 1742, which provided
that the entrance to a blockaded port should be closed by at
least two vessels or a battery on shore; to the treaty of 1760
between Holland and the Two Sicilies prescribing that at least
six ships of war should be ranged at a distance slightly greater
than gunshot from the entrance; and to the treaty between
Prussia and Denmark of 1818, which stipulated that two vessels should be stationed before every blockaded port; but we
do not think these particular agreements of special importance
here, and, indeed, Ortolan, by whom they are cited, says that
such stipulations cannot create a positive rule in all cases even
between the parties, "since the number of vessels necessary
to a complete investment depends evidently on the nature of
the place blockaded." 2 Ortolan, (4th ed.) 330, and note 2.
Nor do we regard Sir William Scott's judgment in The
Arthur, (1814) 1 Dodson, 423, 425, as of weight in favor of
claimants. In effect the ruling sustained the validity of the
maintenance of blockade by a single ship, and the case was
thus stated: "This is a claim made by one of His Majesty's

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinibn of the Court.

ships to share as joint-captor in a prize taken in the river Ems
by another ship belonging to His Majesty, for a breach of the
blockade imposed by the order in council of the 26th of April,
1809. This order was, among others, issued in the way of retaliation for the measures which had been previously adopted
by the French government against the commerce of this country. The blockade imposed by it is applicable to a very great
extent of coast, and was never intended to be maintained according to the usual and regular mode of en forcing blockades,
by stationing a number of ships, and forming as it were an
arch of circumvallation around the mouth of the prohibited
port. There, if the arch fails in any one part, the blockade
itself fails altogether; but this species of blockade, which has
arisen out of the violent and unjust conduct of the enemy,. was
maintained by a ship stationed anywhere in the neighborhood
of the coast, or, as in this case, in the river itself, observing
and preventing every vessel that might endeavor to effect a
passage up or down the river."
Blockades are maritime blockades, or blockades by sea and
land; and they may be either military or commercial, or may
partake of the nature of both. The question of effectiveness
must necessarily depend on the circumstances. We agree
that the fact of a single capture is not decisive of the effectiveness of a blockade, but the case made on this record does
not rest on that ground.
We are of opinion that if a single modern cruiser blockading a port renders it in fact dangerous for other craft to enter the port, that is sufficient, since thereby the blockade is
made practically effective.
What then were the facts as to the dffectiveness of the
blockade in the case before us?
In the proclamation of June 27, 1898, occurs this paragraph:
"The United States of America has instituted and will maintain an effective blockade of all the ports on the south coast
of Cuba, from Cape Frances to Cape Cruz, inclusive, and also
of the port of San Juan, in the island of Porto Rico."
(Proclamation No. 11, 30 Stat. 34.) The blockade thus announced was not of the coast of Porto Rico, but of the port

THE OLINDE RODRIGUES.
Opinion of the Court.

of San Juan, a town of less than 25,000 inhabitants, on the
northern coast of Porto Rico, with a single entrance. From
June 27 to July 14, 1898, the Yosemite, a merchant ship converted into an auxiliary cruiser, blockaded the port. Her
maximum speed was fifteen and one half knots; and her
armament ten 5-inch rapid firing guns, six 6-pounders, two
1-pounders, with greatest range of three and one half miles.
While the Yosemite was blockading the port she ran the
armed transport Antonio Lopez aground six miles from San
Juan; gave a number.of neutral vessels official notice of the
blockade; warned off many from the*port; and on the 5th of
July, 1898, wrote into the log of the Olinde Rodrigues, off San
Juan, the official warning of the blockade of San Juan. On
July 14 and thereafter the port was blockaded by the armored
cruiser New Orleans, whose maximum speed was twenty-two
knots, and her armament six 6-inch breech-loading rifles,
four 4.7-inch breech-loading rifles, ten 6-pounders, four 1.5-inch
gujis, corresponding to 3-pounders ; four 3-pounders in the
tops; four 37-millimetre automatic guns, corresponding to
1-pounders. The range of her guns was five and one half sea
miles or six and a quarter statute miles. If stationary, she
could command a circle of thirteen miles in diameter; if moving,. at maximum speed, she could cover in five minutes any
point on a circle of seventeen miles diameter; and in ten minutes any point on a circle of"nineteen miles diampter; her
electric search lights could sweep the sea by night for ten
miles distance; her motive power made her independent of
winds and currents; in these respects and in her armament
and increased range of guns she so far surpassed in effectiveness the old-time war ships that it would be inadmissible to
hold that even if a century ago more than one ship was believed to be required for an effective blockade, therefore this
cruiser was not sufficient to blockade this port
Assuming that the Olinde Rodrigues attempted to enter San
Juan, July 17, there can be no question that it was dangerous
for her to do so, as the result itself demonstrated. She had had
actual warning twelve days before; no reason existed for the
supposition that the blockade had been pretermitted or relaxed:

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

her commander had no right to experiment as to the practical
effectiveness of the blockade, and, if he did so, he took the risk;
he was believed to be making the attempt, and was immediately captured. In these circumstances the vessel cannot be
permitted to plead that the blockade was not legally effective.
After the argument on the motion to discharge the vessel,
application was made by counsel. for the claimant to the District Judge, by letter, that the Navy Department be requested
to furnish the court with all letters or dispatches of the commanders of vessels blockading the port of San Juan in respect
to the sufficiency of the force. And a motion was made in
this court "for an order authorizing the introduction into the
record of the dispatches of Captain Sigsbee and Commander
Davis," dated June 27, 1898, and July 26, 1898, and published
by the Navy Department in the "Appendix to the Report of
the Chief of the Bureau of Navigation, 1898," pp. 224,225,64:2.
To this the United States objected on the grounds that
isolated statements transmitting official information to superior officers, and consisting largely of opinion and hearsay, were not competent evidence; that the claimants had
been afforded the opportunity to offer additional proof, and
had not availed themselves thereof; that if the court desired
to have these papers before it, then the Government should
be permitted to define their meaning by counter proofs; and
certain explanatory affidavits were, at the same time, tendered
for consideration, if the motion were granted.
We need not specifically rule on the motion, or as to the,
admissibility of either the dispatches or affidavits, as we are
satisfied that the dispatches have no legitimate tendency to
establish that the blockade was not effective so far as the exclusion of trade from this port of the belligerent, whether in
neutral or enemy's trading ships, was concerned. This country has always recognized the essential difference between a
military and a commercial blockade. The one deals with the
exclusion of trade, and the other involves the consideration
of armed conflict with the belligerent. The necessity of a
greater blockading force in the latter case than in the former
is obvious. The difference is in kind, and in degree.

THE OLINDE RODRIGUES.

521"

Opinion of the Court.

Our Government was originally of opinion that commercial
blockades in respect of neutral powers ought to be done
away with; but that view was not accepted, and during the
period of the Civil War the largest commercial blockade ever
known was established. Dana's Wheat. Int. Law, (8th ed.)
p. 671, note 232; 3"Whart. Int. Dig. § 361.
The letters of Captain Sigsbee, of the St. Paul, and of
Commander Davis, of the Dixie, must be read in the light
of this recognized distinction; and it is to be further remarked that after the letter of Captain Sigsbee of June 27
the New Orleans was sent by Admiral Sampson officially to
blockade ine port of San Juan, thereby enormously increasing
its efficiency.
In his report of June 28, Appendix, Rep. Bur. Nav.220, 222,
Captain Sigsbee describes an attack on the St. Paul off the
port of San Juan, June 22, by the Spanish cruiser Isabella II and
by the torpedo boat destroyer Terror, in which engagement
the St. Paul severely injured the Terror, and drove the attacking force back into San Juan, and in his letter of June 27 he
wrote: "It is advisable to constantly keep the Terror in mind
as a possible active force; but, leaving her out of consideration,
the services to be performed by the Yosemite, of blockading a
well-fortified port containing a force of enemy's vessels whose
aggregate force is greater than her own, is an especially difficult one. If she permits herself to be driven away from the
port, even temporarily, the claim may be set up that the blockade is broken."
It is true that in closing his letter of June 27 Captain Sigsbee said: "I venture to suggest that, in order to make the
blockade of San Juan positively effective, a considerable force
of vessels is needed off that port, enough to detach some to
occasionally cruise about the island. West of San Juan the
coast,1 although bold, has outlying dangers, making it easy at
I The coast thus referred to is described in a work entitled "Navigation
of the Gulf of Mexico and the Caribbean Sea," issued by the Navy Department, vol. I, 342, thus: "1The shore appears to be skirted by a reef, inclosing numerous small cays and islets, over which the sea breaks violently,
and it should not be approached within a distance of four miles."

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

present for blockade runners having local pilots to work in
close to the port under the land during the night."
But we are considering the blockade of the port of San Juan
and not of the coast, and while additional vessels to cruise
about the island might be desirable in order that the blockade
should be positively effective, we think it a sufficient complianne with the obligations of international law if the blockade
made egress or ingress dangerous in fact, and that the suggestions of a zealous American naval commander, in anticipation
of a conflict of armed forces before San Juan, that the blockade
should be brought to the highest efficiency in a military as
well as a commercial aspect, cannot be allowed to have the
effect of showing that the blockade which did exist was, as to
this vessel, ineffective in point of law.
And the letter of Commander Davis of the Dixie, of July
26, 1898, appears to us to have been written wholly from the
standpoint of the efficiency of the blockade as a military blockade. He says: "Captain Folger kept me through the night
of the 24th, as he had information which led him to believe
that an attack would be made on his ship during the night.
There are in San Juan, Porto Rico, the Terror, torpedo gunboat; the Isabella II,' cruiser; a torpedo boat, and a gunboat.
There is also a German steamer, which is only waiting an
opportunity to slip out." ' And further: "It is Captain Folger's opinion that the enemy will attempt to raise the blockade of San Juan, and it is my opinion that he should be regnforced there with the least possible delay."
In our judgment these naval officers did not doubt the effectiveness of the commercial blockade, and had simply in mind
the desirability of rendering the blockade, as a military blockade, impregnable, by the possession of a force sufficient to successfully repel any hostile attack of the enemy's fleet. The
blockade was practically effective; had remained so; and was
legal and binding, if not raised by an actual driving away of
the blockadingforce by the enemy; until the happening of
which result the neutral trader had no right to ask whether
the blockade, as against the possible superiority of the enemy's
fleet, was or was not effective in a military sense.

THE OLINDE RODRIGUES.
Opinion of the Court.

But was this ship attempting to enter the port of San Juan,
on the morning of July 17, when she was captured? It is
contended by counsel for the claimant that if the rulings of
the District Court should be disapproved of, an opportunity
should still be given it to put in further proofs in respect of
the violation of the blpockade, notwithstanding it had declined
to do so under the order of that court. That order gave
ninety days to the captors for further proofs, and to the
claimant, thereafter, such time for testimony in reply as
might seem proper. After the captors had put in their
proofs, the claimant, without introducing anything further,
moved for the discharge and restitution of the steamship on
the ground of the ineffective character of the blockade, and
because the evidence did not justify a decree-of condemnation; but undertook to reserve the right to adduce further
proof, in the event that its motion should be denied. The
District Court commented with disfavor upon such an attempt,
and we think the claimant could not as matter of right demand that the cause should be opened again. The settled practice of prize courts forbids the taking of further proofs under
such circumstances; and in the view we take of the cause it
would subserve no useful purpose to permit this to be done.
On the proofs before us the case is this: The Olinde Rod-.
rigues was a merchant vessel of 1675 tons, belonging to the
Compagnie G~n~rale Transatlantique, engaged in the West
India trade and receiving a subsidy from the French government for carrying its mails on an itinerary prescribed by the
postal authorities. Her regular course was from Havre to
St. Thomas, San Juan, Puerto Plata and some other ports,
returning by the some ports to Havre. She sailed from
Havie, June 16, and arrived at St. Thomas, July 3, and at
San Juan the morning of July 4. The proclaination of the
blockade of San, Juan was issued June 27, while she was
on the sea. The United States cruiser Yosemite was on duty
in those waters, blockading the port of San Juan, and when
her commander sighted the Olinde Rodrigues coming from
the eastward toward the port he madte chase, but before
reaching her she had turned in and was under the protection

OCTOBER TERM. 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

of the shore batteries. He lay outside until the next morning
- the morning of July 5-when he intercepted the steamship as she was coming out, and sent an officer aboard, who
made this entry in her log : "Warned off San Juan, July 5th,
1898, by U. S. S. Yosemite. Commander Emory. John Burns,
Ensign, U. S. Navy." The master of the Olinde Rodrigues,
whose testimony was taken in _reflaratorio, testified that
when he entered San Juan, July 4, he had no knowledge that
the port was blockaded, and that he first heard of it from the
Yosemite on July 5, when he was leaving San Juan. After
the notification ho continued his voyage on the specified
itinerary, arriving at Gonaives, the last port outward, on July
12. On his return voyage he stopped at the same ports,
taking on freight, passengers and mail for Havre. At Cape
Haytien, on July 14, he received a telegram from the agent
of his company at San Juan, telling him to hastea his arrival
there by one day in order to take on fifty first class passengers, and he replied that the ship would not touch at San
Juan, but would be at St. Thomas on the 17th. The purser
testified that on the receipt of the cable from the consignee
at San Juan, he"told the captain "that since we were advised
of the blockade of Pdrto Rico by the war ship, it was absolutely. necessary not to stop;"' and that "before me, tlhe agent
in Cape Haytien, sent a cablegram, saying ' Daim [the vessel]
will not stop at San Juan, the blockade being notified.'"
The ship's master further testified that on the outward
voyage at each port he had warned the agent of the company
and the postal department that he would not touch at Porto
Rico, that he would not take passengers for that point, and
that the letters would be returned to St. Thomas, and that
having received his clearance papers 'at Puerto Plata at halfpast five o'clock on the evening of July 15, he did not leave
until six o'clock in the morning of July 16, as he did not wish
to find himself at night along the coast of Porto Rico.
The ship was a large and valuable one, belonging to a great
steamship company of world-wide reputation; she was on her
return voyage laden with tobacco, sugar, coffee and other products of that region; she had no cargo, passengers or mail for

,TKE OINDE RODRIGUES.
Opinion of the Court.

San Juan; she had arrived off that port in broad daylight,
intentionally according to the captain; her regular itinerary
on her return to France would have taken her from Port an
Platte to San ,Juan, and from San Juan to St. Thomas, and

thence to Havre, but as San Juan was blockaded and she. had
been warned off, and could not lawfully stop there, her route
was from Port an Platte to St. Thomas, which led her directly
by and not many miles from the port of San Juan.
The only possible motive which could be*or is assigned for
her to attempt to break the -blockade is that the consignee at
San Juan cabled the captain at Cape Haytien that he must
stop at San Juan and take fifty first class passengers. At this
time the fleet of Admiral Cervera had been destroyed; Santiago had fallen; and the long reign of Spain in the Antilles
was drawing to an end. Doubtless the transportation of fifty
first class passengers would prove remunerative, especially as
some of them might be Spanish officials, and Spanish archives
and records, and Spanish treasure, might accompany them if
they-escaped on the ship. It is forcibly argued that these are
reasonable inferences, and afforded a sufficient motive for the
commission of the offence. But as, where the guilty intent
is established, the lack of motive cannot in itself overthrow it,
so-the presence of motive is -not in itself sufficient to supply
the lack of evidence of intent. Now, in this case, the captain
not only testified that he answered the cable to the effect that
he should not stop at San Juan, but the purser explicitly stated
that the agent at Cape Haytien sent the telegram for the captain, specifically notifying the agent at San Juan that the ship
would not stop there, the blockade having been notified. It
is true that the cablegram was not produced, but this was not
to be expected in taking the depositions in preparatrino, and
particularly as it was not the captain's own cablegram, but
that of the agent at Cape Elaytien. There is nothing in the
evidence to the contrary, and under the liberality of the rules
of evidence in the administration of the civil law, we must
take this as. we find it, and, as it stands, the argument
that a temptation was held out is answered by the evidence
that it was resisted.

526

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Cour.

Such being the situation, and the evidence of the ship's officers being explicit that the vessel was on her way to St. Thomas
and had no intention of running into San Juan, the decree in
-her favor must be affirmed on the merits, unless the record
elsewhere furnishes evidence sufficient to overcome the conclusion reasonably deducible from the facts above stated.
Among the papers delivered to the prize master were
certain bills of health, five of them by consuls of France,
namely, July 9, from St. Marc, Haiti, giving the ship's destination as Havre, with intermediate ports; July 11, from
'Gonaives, Haiti, giving no destination; July. 13, from Port
an Prince, July 14, from Cape Haytien, July 15, from Puerto
Plata, all naming Havre as the destination; and three by consuls of Denmark, July 13, from Port an Prince, July 14, from
Cape Haytien, and July 15, from Puerto Plata, all naming
St. Thomas as the destination. When the captain testified
August '2, in answer to the standing interrogatories, he said
nothing about any Spanish bills of health. The deposition
was reread to the captain, August 3, and on the next day,
August 4, he wrote to the prize commissioners desiring to correct it, saying: " I fear I have badly interpreted several questions. I.was asked if I had destroyed any papers on board
or passports. I replied, no. The papers- documents- on
board for our voyage had been delivered up proper and legal
to the prize master. This is absolutely the truth, not including in the documents two Spanish bills of health, one from
Port au Prince and one from Cape Haytien, which we found
in opening our papers, although they had not been demanded.
Not having any value for us, I said to the steward to destroy
them on our -arrival at Charleston, as we often do with papers
that are useless to us. The regular expedition only counts
from the last port, which was Puerto Plata, and I refused to
take it from our agent for Porto Rico. I swear that at my
examination I did not think of this, and it is only on my return from signing that the steward recalled it to me. I never
sought to disguise the truth, since I wish to advise you of it
as soon as possible."
On the 5th of August the purser answered the interroga-

THE OLINDE RODRIGUES.,

•527

Opinion of the Court.

tories, 'and testified that papers were given him by the consignees of the steamer at Port an Prince in a box at the time
of iiling, and he found in the box one manifest of freight in
ballast, and it was the same thing at Cape Haytien. At
Puerto Plata the agent of the company came on board on
their arrival there, and "the captain told him. that there was
no Spanish clearance; there was no need of it, and it was not
taken." The captain said to the agent "it was not necessary,
because we are not going to San Juan, being notified of the
blociade." "When we arrive in a port we put up a placard
'of the date of departure and the time of sailing and the destination, a-id it was put up by my personal order from the
captain that we sailed for St. Thomas directly, and it was
fixed up in the night of the 15th of July.

.

.

We were

to start on the morning of the 16th, at 6 o'clock in the morning, the captain saying he did not want to fall into the hands
of the American cruisers during the night. The night before
our arrival in Charleston, the doctor says to me, ' I have a bill
of health, Spanish account, from Cape Haytien and Port an
Prince,' and I told him I would speak to the captain and ask
him what to do with these papers that I had found in sorting
my papers- these papers in the pigeon holes. I told the captain that morning, and he told me that we had better destroy
them, because we don't want them; that it is not our expedition, and that a true exposition is valuable only for the last
port to the Spanish port."
On the 5th the captain was permitted to testify, in explanation, saying, among other things: "The reason that we did
not give up the two bills of health is because they did not
form a part of the clearance of our ship for our itinerary, and
they were left in the pigeon holes where they were. It was
at the time of our arrival at the quarantine at Charleston that
the purser spoke to me of them, and I told him that they
were good for nothing and to tear them up.- The captain
wishes to add that he did not remember the instande the
-other day about the destruction of papers, that he has just
told us about, and that he never had any intention to disguise anything'or to deceive."

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

Counsel for the Government insist that the intention of the
Olinde to run the blockade is necessarily to be inferred from
the possession of these bills of health and their alleged concealment and destruction. Doubtless the spoliation of-papers,
and, though to a less degree, their concealment, is theoretically a serious offence, and authorizes the presumption of an
intention to suppress incriminating evidence, though this is
not an irrebuttable presumption.
In The Pizarro, 2 Wheat. 227, 241, the rule is thus stated
by Mr. Justice Story: "Concealment, or even spoliation of
papers is not of itself a sufficient ground for condemnation in
a prize court. It is, undoubtedly, a very awakening circumstance, calculated to excite the vigilance, and to justify the
suspicions of the court. But it is a circumstance open to
explanation, for it may have arisen from accident, necessity
or superior force; and if the party in the first instance fairly
and frankly explains it to the satisfaction of the court, it
deprives him of no right to which .he is otherwise entitled.
If, on the other hand, the spoliation be unexplained, or the
explanation appear weak and futile; if the cause labor
under heavy suspicions, or there be a vehement presumption
of bad "faith, or gross prevarication, it is made the ground of
a denial of further proof, and condemnation ensues from
defects in the evidence which the party is not permitted to
supply."
It should be remembered that the first deposition of the
captaii was given in answer to standing interrogatories, and
not under an oral examination; that the statute (Rev. Stat.
§ 4622) forbade the witness "to see the interrogatories, documents or papers, or to consult counsel, or with any persons
interested, without special authority from the court;" that he
was born and had always lived in France, and was apparently
not conversant with our language; indeed, he protested, as
"neither understanding nor speaking English," "against all
interpretation or translation contrary to my thought;" that
the deposition having been reread to him the day after it was
taken, he detected its want of fulness, and immediately wrote
the prize commissioners on the subject with a view to cot-

THE OLINDE RODRIGUES.
Opinion of the Court.

rection; and that it was after this, and not before, that the
purser testified.
Transactions of this sort constitute in themselves no ground
for condemnation, but are evidence, more or less *convincing,
of the existence of such ground; yet, taking the evidence in'
this case together, we are not prepared to hold that the explanation as to how these bills came to be received on board,
neglected when the papers were surrendered, and finally torn
up, was not sufficient to obviate any decisive inference of
objectionable intention.
The Government further insisted, that the Olinde Rodrigues
refused to obey the signal from the New Orleans to heave to
and stop instantly, and turned only after she had fired, and
that this conclusively established an intention to violate the
blockade. The theory of the Government is that the French
ship purposely held on so as to get under the protection of the
batteries of San Juan.
The log of the Olinde. lRodrigues'states: "6.30, noticed the
heights of San Juan. At 17.20, took the bearings of the.
fortress at 45 degrees, eight miles and one half crosswise.
Noticed, at 7.50, a man-of-war. At 8.10, she signalled 'J. W.,'
[" heave to and stop instantly."] I went towards it and made
arrangements in order to receive the whale boat which is sent

to us."
In a communication to the Ambassador of France at Washington, written July 17, and purporting to give a full account
of the matter, the captain said that he "was some time before
seeing her signal, on account of the distance and of the sun.
Suspecting what she wanted, I hoisted the 'perceived' and
stopped."
He testified that he turned his vessel to the war ship before.
the gun was fired, which was at 8.12, but on this point the
evidence is strongly to the contrary. We are inclined to think
that some allowance should be made for imperfect recollection
in the rapid passage of events. The Olinde lRodrigues was
comparatively a slow sailer, (ten to twelve knots,) and, if the
captain stopped on seeing the signal, and turned towards the
war ship with reasonable promptness, a settled purpose to
VOL. CLXXIV-4

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

defy the signal ought not to be imputed, whether she started
towards the New Orleans just before, just after, or just as the
shot was fired.
The stress of the contention of the Government is, however, that the Olinde Rodrigues was on a course directly into
the port of San Juan at the time her progress was arrested.
It is extremely difficult to be precise in such a matter, as her
course to reach St. Thomas necessarily passed in face of San
Juan. The captain attached to his explanatory affidavit a
sketch, "showing the usual route and the actual route which
he was taking at the time of the capture, with the position
of the capturing ship and his own ship," as follows, see
p. 531.
But it appears from the entries of the second officer on the
log of the Olinde iRodrigues that the ship was from one to five
o'clock in the morning of July 17 on the course, (as corrected,)
S. 69 E., and that from six to eight o'clock the course was S.
73 E.
The captain testified that at the time of capture: ".I had just
passed the port of San Juan, about 7 or 8 miles eastward of
the port, and about 9 miles from shore, about 9 miles from
Morro. They judged the distance in passing as they do from
all points."
The second officer said that " they were 9 miles from San
Juan after having passed the port of San Juan and gone 4.
miles east of it."
This testimony strikingly confirms Captain Folger's candid
expression of opinion that though the master of the Olinde
IRodrigues may have been going in and out of that port for
years, he did not measure the distances, but "would run so far
down the coast and order them to steer to a certain point to
head in."
The commander of the New Orleans admitted "that south
69 is the proper course beforehand for the Culebra Passage,"
(the passage through which to reach St. Thomas,) but contested that the French vessel was making that course.
Lieutenant Rooney, the navigator of the New Orleans, laid
down the positions upon a chart as follows, see p. 532.

THE OLINDE RODRIGUES.
Opinion of the Court.

531

532

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court;

THE OLINDE RODRIGUES.
Opinion of the Court.

The point C is seven and two thirds niles from Morro, bearing S. W., and five miles from point D, the intersection of a
line drawn west with north and south .line through Morro.
D is five and two thirds miles from IMorro. The range of
Morro guns was six and one half miles, and the range of the
shore batteries, three miles east of Morro, also six and one
half miles. According to this plat, the Olinde Rodrigues was
slightly within the range of the Morro guns, but not within the
range bf the shore batteries. The New Orleans when she
fired was close to the range of the shore. batteries %andsomething over a mile outside of the extr6me range of the Morro
guns.

And it is urged that the conclusion is inevitable that the
French ship intended to run into the port and to draw the
pursuing cruiser within the range of the Spanish guns. If
her being in the neighborhood -were not satisfactorily explained; if she persistently ignored the signal of the cruiser;
and if her course was a course into the port of San Juan and
not a proper course to reach St. Thomas, then the conclusion
may be admitted; but it is not denied that she was in the
neighborhood in the discharge of her duty, and we have already seen that she may be consistently regarded as not having defied the signal.
On the part of the captors, the witnesses concurred that the
Olinde Rodrigues' course was laid for the port of San Juan,
while on her behalf this was denied, except so far as her
course for St. Thomas took her near the blockaded port. In
addition to the witnesses from the New Orleans the telegraph
operator on the Morro testified that the Olinde Rodrigues
was coming directly toward the Morro, but changed her course
when the shot was fired.
A principal reason given by the witnesses for concluding
that the Olinde Rodrigues was making for San Juan was that
her masts, as seen from the deck of the New Orleans, were
open, thus indicating that she was sailing south or toward the
port of San Juan. It was admitted that this would not necessarily be so unless the New Orleans was on the same line
east and west with the other vessel, or, in other words,; if the

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

New Orleans were to the north of the Olinde Rodrigues, the latter's masts might appear open without necessarily indicating that she was sailing south, -or towards the land. Lieutenant Rooney did not see her until after she was captured. He
is positive as to the approximate position of the New Orleans
early in the morning before the Olinde Rodrigues was sighted,
which had not occurred when he went below at 7.30, and he is
positive as to the position of the New Orleans after the capture. He places the position of the New Orleans at 6.50, when
the last bearing observation was taken, at fifteen miles north
of the coast and of the Morro. At nine o'clock bearings were
again taken, and she was about seven and two thirds miles
from the Morro. Lieutenant iRooney explained in his testimony the proper courses for a vessel bailing to St. Thomas,
and stated that several courses might be properly steered, that
one of them would be to pass about twelve miles north of the
harbor of San Juan, and that there was nothing impracticable
in a vessel reaching Culebra Point,.with a view of going to
St. Thomas, on a course of S. 69 E. from midnight to 5
o'clock, and a change at 5 o'clock to S.73 E. He also testified that a vessel bound for San Juan on an ordinary commercial voyage would have been nearer the shore than where the
Olinde Rodrigues was when she was captured, and that it was
probable -that if she intended to go to San Juan and avoid the
New Orleans she would have hugged the shore and not been
out at sea.
Some of the evidence, in short, had a tendency to show that
the Olinde Rodrigues, when sailing on a proper course for St.
Thomas, would be drawing to the south, and that the New
Orleans was to the north of her, in which case, obviously, the
nearer the vessels approached the more open would the masts
of the Olinde Rodrigues appear. But the clear preponderance
was that the captured ship was to the west of a north and
south line drawn through Morro, and running nearly south
just before or when the New Orleans fired.
It is impossible to deny that the testimony of Captain Folger, the commander of the New Orleans, and of his officers,
was extremely strong and persuasive to establish that the

THE OLINDE RODRIGUES.
Opinion of the Court.

Olinde Rodrigues, when brought to, was intentionally heading
for San Juan, and pursuing her course in such a manher as to
draw the blockading cruiser in range of the enemy's batteries,
and yet we must consider it in view of the evidence on behalf
of the captured ship, and of the undisputed facts tending to
render it improbable that any design of attempting to violate
the blockade was entertained. The Olinde Rodrigues had
neither passengers nor cargo for San Juan; in committing
the offence, she would take the risk of capture or of being'
shut up in that port; she was a merchantman engaged in her
regular business and carrying the mails; she was owned by a
widely known and reputable company; her regular course,
though interrupted by the blockade of that port, led directly
by it, and not far from it; and the testimony of her captain
and officers denied any intention to commit a breach.
The evidence of evil intent must be clear and convincing
before a merchant ship belonging to citizens" of a friendly
nation will be condemned. And on a careful review of the
entire evidence, we think we are not compelled to proceed to
that extremity.
But, on the other hind, we are bound to say that, taking
all the circumstances together and giving due weight to the
evidence on behalf of the captors, probable cause for making
the capture undoubtedly existed; and the case disclosed does
not commend this vessel to the favorable consideration of the
court.
Probable cause exists where there are circumstances sufficient to warrant suspicion though it may turn out that the
facts are not sufficient to warrant condemnation. And whether
they are or not cannot be determine unless the customary
proceedings of prize are instituted and enforced. The Adeline,
4 Cranch, 244, 285; The Thomson, 3 Wall. 155. Even if
not found sufficient to condemn, restitution will not necessarily be made absolutely, but may be decreed conditionally
as each case requires, and an order of restitution does not
prove lack of probable cause. The Adeline, supra; Jennings
v. Carson, 4 Cranch, 2, 28, 29.
In the statement of Sir William Scott and Sir John Nicholl,

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

transmitted to Chief Justice Jay, then Minister to England,
by Sir William Scott, September 10, 1794, "the general principles of proceeding in prize causes, in British Courts of Admiralty, and of the measures proper to be taken when a ship
and cargo are brought in as prize within their jurisdictions,"
are set forth as laid down in an extract from a report made to
the King in 1753 "by Sir George Lee, then Judge of the Prerogative Court, Dr. Paul, His Majesty's Advocate General,
Sir Dudley Rider, His Majesty's Attorney General, and Mr.
Murray, (afterwards Lord Mansfield,) His Majesty's Solicitor
General;" and many instances are given where in the enforcement of the rules "the law of nations allows, according to the
different degrees of misbehavior, or suspicion, arising from
the fault of the ship taken, and other circumstances of the
case, costs to be paid, or not to be received, by the claimant,
in case of acquittal and restitution." Wheaton on Captures,
Appendix, 309, 311, 312; Pratt's Story's Notes, p. 35.
In The Appollon, 9 Wheat. 362, 372, Mr. Justice Story said:
"No principle is better settled in the law of prize than the
rule that probable cause will not merely excuse, but even, in
some cases, justify a capture. If there be probable cause, the
captors are entitled, as of right, to an exemption from damages; and if the case be of strong and vehement suspicion, or
requires further proof to entitle the claimant to restitution,
the law of prize proceeds yet farther, -and gives the captors
their costs and expenses inproceeding to adjudication."
Section 4639 of the Revised Statutes contemplates that,
under circumstances, all costs and expenses shall remain
charged on the captured vessel though she be restored, and
this court has repeatedly held that damages and costs will be
denied where there was probable cause for seizure, and that
sometimes costs will be awarded to the captors. The Venws,
5 Wheat. 127; The Thompson, 3 Wall. 155; The Springbok,
5 Wall. 1 ; The Dashing Wave, 5 Wall. 170 ; The Sir Williamr
Peel, 5 Wall. 517; The Peterhiof , 5 Wall. 28, 61, 62.
In The Dashing Wave, Chief Justice Chase said: "We
think it was the plain duty of a neutral claiming to be engaged in trade with Matamoras, under circumstances which

THE OLINDE RODRIGUES.
Opinion of the Court.

warranted close observation by the blockading squadron, to
keep his vessel, while discharging or receiving cargo, so
clearly on the neutral side of the boundary line as to repel,
so far as position could repel, all imputation of intent to break
the blockade. He had no right to take, voluntarily, a position in the immediate presence of the blockading fleet, from
which merchandise might be so easily introduced into the
blockaded region. We do not say that neglect of duty, in
this respect, on the part of the brig, especially in the absence
of positive evidence that the neglect was wilful, calls for -condemnation; but we cannot doubt that under the circumstances
described, capturing and sending in for adjudication was fully
warranted."
In The Spfqringbok, the ship was restored but costs and
damages were not allowed because of the misconduct of the
master.
In The Peterhof, payment of costs and expenses by the ship.
was decreed as a condition of restitution. The Peterhoff was
captured by the United States vessel of war Vanderbilt onsuspicion of intent to run the blockade and of having contraband on board. Her captain refused to take his papers to the
Vanderbilt, and, in addition, papers were destroyed and a
pgckage was thrown overboard. The Peterhoff was searched,
and it is stated in the opinion: "The search led to the belief
on the part of the officers of the Vanderbilt that there was
contraband on board, destined to the enemy. This belief, it is
now apparent, was warranted. It was therefore the duty of
the captors to bring the Peterhoff in for adjudication, and
clearly they are not liable for the costs and expenses of doing
so." The court then commented on the destruction of papers,
and the throwing overboard of the package, in regard to
which it was unable to credit the representations of the captain, but in view of the other facts in the case, did not extend
the effect of the captain's conduct and the incriminating circumstances to condemnation.
The case before us falls plainly within these rulings. This
vessel had gone into San Juan on July 4, although the captain
had heard of the blockade at St. Thomas, but he says he had

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

not been officially notified of it; he telegraphed to the consul
at San Juan to know, and was answered that they had received no official notice from Washington that the port was
blockaded; he also heard while in San Juan that "it would
be blockaded some future time, but that was not officially."
The vessel was boarded and warned by the Yosemite on July
5, and the warning entered on her log. This imposed upon
her the duty to avoid approaching San Juan, on her return,
so nearly as to give just cause of suspicion, yet she so shaped
her course as inevitably to invite it.
When the New Orleans succeeded the Yosemite her commander was informed of the facts by his predecessor, and knew
that whatever the right of the Olinde Rodrigies to be in those
waters, she could not lawfully place herself so near the interdicted port as to be able to break the blockade with impunity. But when he sighted her the ship was on a course
to all appearance directly into that pQrt, and steadily pursuing it. And when he signalled, the Olinde Rodrigues apparently did not obey, but seemingly persisted on her course, and
that course would in a few moments have placed her within
the range of the guns of Mforro and of the shore batteries.
In fact, when the shot was fired she was within the range of

the Morro's guns. The evidence is overwhehning that she did
not change her course until after the shot was fired, even
though she may have stopped as soon as she saw the signal.
The turning point into the Culebra or Virgin Passage was perhaps forty miles to the eastward, and while she could have
passed the port of San Juan on the course she was on, it would
have been within a very short distance. The disregard of her
duty to shun the port and not approach it was so flagrant that
the intention to break the blockade was to be presumed,
though we do not hold that that was a presumption dejure.
The ship's log was not produced until three hours after she
was boarded, and it now appears that the papers furnished the
boarding officer, "said to be all the ship's papers," did not
include two Spanish bills of health in which San Juan was
entered as the vessel's destination. These were destroyed after
the ship reached Charleston, and were, therefore, in the ship's

COHN v. DALEY.
Opinion of the Court.

possession when the other papers were delivered. Had they
been shown, as they should have been, can it be denied that
they would have furnished strong corroboration of criminal
intent? Or that their destruction tended to make a case of
"strong and vehement suspicion" ?
The entire record considered, we are of opinioii.that restitution of the Olinde Rodrigues should be awarded, without damages, and that payment of the costs and expenses incident to
her custody and preservation, and of all costs in the cause except the fees of counsel, should be imposed upon the ship.
The decree of the District Court will be so modified, and
As modiied affirmed.
MR. JusTICE McK.Ex.& dissented on the ground that the
evidence justified condemnation.

COHN v. DALEY.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF

ARIZONA.
No. 186. Argued and submitted April 4, 5, 1899. =-Decided May 15, 1899.
For the reasons stated in the opinion of the court, it is precluded from,looking at the so-called statement of facts, and when they are excluded
from the record there is nothing left for review, and the judgment be-

low is affirmed.

THE statement of the case will be found in the opinion of
the court.

.Mr. M1arcus A. Smith for appellant submitted on his brief.
Mr. James K. ]edington for appellee.
was on his brief.

Mr. James Reilly

MR. JusTICE McKENnA delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an action to quiet title to certain mining claims in
the Territory of Arizona.

