SAN DIEGO LAND COMPANY v. NATIONAL CITY.

739

Syllabus.

from inquiry or investigation for the purpose of avoiding
knowledge."
The court had also said that "in general, if the defendant
acted in good faith in making these certifications, believing
that the state of the account of Dobbins and Dazey justified
it, he is not guilty of the offence charged. Mere negligence
or carelessness unaccompanied by bad faith would not render
him guilty." And other passages of similar purport might be
quoted.
But the jury desired further advice as to what constituted
criminal certification, or wilful violation oE section 5208, and
preferred a request which required a comprehensive answer.
The response was in the nature of a separate charge, and we
are unable to conclude that the error in declining at that time
to call attention to section 13 was cured by the bare reference
to the original charge.
Many other errors were assigned and pressed in argument,
but, as the particular points may not arise in the same way on
another trial, we prefer to refrain from expressing any opinion
upon them..
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Ap~eals is reversed;
thejudgment of the Circuit Court is also reversed, and the
cause remanded to that court with a direction to set aside
the verdict and grant a new trial.
MR. JusTIoE BnowN and MR.

JUsTICE

MoKN A dissented.

SAN DIEGO LAND AND TOWN COMPANY v.
NATIONAL CITY.
APPEAL

FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 25.

Submitted October 11, 1898.-Decided May 22, 1899.

Under the provisions of the act of the legislature of California of March
7, 1881, c. 52, making it the official duty of the board of supervisors,
town council, board of aldermen or other legislative body of any city

OCTOBER TERMI, 1898.
Statement of the Case.
and county, city or town, in the State, to annually fix the rates that
shall be charged and collected for water furnished, one who furnishes
water is not entitled to formal notice as to the precise day upon which
the water rates will be fixed, as provision for hearing is made by statute*
in an appropriate way.
There is no ground in the facts in this case for saying that the appellant
did not have or was denied an opportunity to be heard upon the question
of rates.
It was competent for the State of California to declare that the use of all
water appropriated for sale, rental or distribution, should be a public
use, subject to public regulation and control; but this power could not
be exercised arbitrarily and without reference to what was just and
reasonable between the public and those who appropriated water, and
supplied it for general use.
The judiciary ought not to interfere with the collection of such rates,
established under legislative sanction, unless they are so plainly and
palpably unreasonable, as to make their enforcement equivalent to the
taking of property for public use without such compensation as, under
the circumstances, is just both to the owner and the public.
In this case it is not necessary to decide whether the city ordinance should
have expressly allowed the appellant to charge for what is called a
water right.
On careful scrutiny of the testimony, this court is of opinion that no case
is made which will authorize a decree declaring that the rates fixed by
the defendant's ordinance are such as amount to a taking of property
without just compensation ; and that the case is not one for judicial
interference with the action of the local authorities.

THis appeal brings up for review a decree of the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern District of California dismissing a bill filed in that court by the San Diego Land
and Town Company, a Kansas corporation, against the city of
National City, a municipal corporation of California, and John
G. Routsan and others, trustees of that city and citizens of
California. 74 Fed. Rep. 79.
The nature of the cause of action set out in the bill is indicated by the following statement:
The constitution of California declaresThat "no corporation organized outside the limits of the
State shall be allowed to transact business within this State on
more favorable conditions than are prescribed by law to similar
corporations organized under the laws of this State." Art.

12, § 15;

-

SAW DIEGO LAND COMPANY v. NATIONAL CITY.

741

Statement of the Case.

That "the use of all water now appropriatod, or that may
hereafter be appropriated, for sale, rental or distribution, is
hereby declared to be a public use, and subject to the- regulation and control of the State, in the manner to be prescribed
by law; provided, that the rates or compensation to be collected
by any person, company or corporation in this State for the
use.of water supplied to any city and county, or city or town,
or the inhabitants thereof, shall be fixed, annually, by the
board of supervisors, or city and county, or city'or town council, or other governing body of such city and county, or city
or town, by ordinance or otherwise, in the manner that other
ordinances or legislative acts or resolutions are passed by such
body, and shall continue in force for one year, and no longer.
Such ordinances or resolutions shall be passed in the month of
February of each year, and take effect on the first day of July
thereafter. Any board or body failing to pass the necessary
ordinances or resolutions fixing water rates, where necessary,
within such time, shall be subject to peremptory process to
compel such action at the suit of any party interested, and
shall be liable to such further processes and penalties as the
legislature may prescribe. Any person, company or corporation collecting water rates in any city and county, or city or
town in this State, otherwise than as so established, shall forfeit the franchises and water works of such person, company
or corporation to the city and county, or city or town where
the same are collected, for the public use." Art. 14, § 1; and,
That "the right to collect rates or compensation for the use
of water supplied to any county, city and county, or town, or
the inhabitants thereof, is a frahchise, and cannot be exercised
except by authority of and in the manner prescribed by law."

Art. 14, §2.

By an act of the legislatur.e of California, passed March 7,
1881, c, 52, it was provided:
"1§ 1. The board of supervisors, town council, board of aldermen or other legislative body of any city and county, city or
town, are hereby authorized and empowered, and it is made
their official duty, to annually fix the rates that shall be
charged and collected by any person, company, association or

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

corporation, for water furnished to any such city and county,
or city or town, or the inhabitants thereof. Such rates shall
be fixed at a regular or special session of such board or other
legislative body, held during the month of February of each
year, and shall take effect on the first day of July thereafter,
and shall continue in force and effect for the term of one year
and no longer.
"§ 2. The board of supervisors, town council, board of
aldermen or other legislative body of any city and county,
city or town, are hereby authorized, and it is made their duty,
at least thirty days prior to the 15th day of January of each
year, to require, by ordinance or otherwise, any corporafion,
company or person supplying water to such county, city or
town, or to the inhabitants, thereof, to furnish to such board
or other governing body in the month of January of each
year, a detailed statement, verified by the oath of the president and secretary of such, corporation or company or of such
person, as the case may be, showing the name of each waterrate payer, his or her place of residence, and the amount paid
for water by each of such water payers during the year preceding the date of such statement, and also showing all revenue derived from all sources, and an itemized statement of
expenditures made for supplying, water during said time."
Stats. of Cal. 1881, p. 54.
By an ordinance of the board of trustees of the defendant
city approved February 21, 1895, certain rates of compensation to be collected by persons, companies or corpqrations
for the use of water supplied to that city or its inhabitants,
or to corporations, companies or persons doing business or
using water therein, were fixed for the year beginning July
1, 1895.
For the purposes of that ordinance the uses of water were
divided into four classes, namely, domestic purposes, public
purposes, mechanical and manufacturing purposes and purposes of irrigation; the rates for each class were prescribed;
and it was provided that no person, company or corporation
should charge, collect or receive water rates in the city except
as thus established.

SAN DIEGO LAND COMPANY v. NATIONAL CITY.

743

Statement of the Case.

The bill in this case questioned the validity of the above
ordinance upon the following grounds:
That no notice of. the fixing of the water rates was given,
nor opportunity presented for a hearing upon the matter of
rates; that no provision in the constitution or laws of California, under and by virtue of which the board of trustees assumed to act, required or authorized such notice; that-water
rates were fixed by the Board arbitrarily, without notice or
evidence, and were unreasonable and unjust, in that under
them the plaintiff could not realize therefrom and from all
other sources within and outside of the limits of the defendant city, a sufficient sum to pay its ordinary and necessary
operating expenses, or any dividends whatever to stockholders, or any interest or profit on its investment; that so long
as the ordinance remained in force the plaintiff would be required by the laws of California to supply water to all consumers within the city at the rates so fixed, which could only
be done at a loss to the plaintiff; and that to compel the
plaintiff to furnish water at those rates would be a practical
confiscation and a taking of its property without due process
of law.
The bill also alleged that the defendant city was composed
in large part of a territory of farming lands devoted to the
raising of fruits and other products, only a small part thereof
being occupied by residences or business houses;
That prior to the adoption of the ordinance above set forth,
the plaintiff, in order to meet in part the large outlay it had
been compelled to make in and about its water system, had
established a rate of one hundred dollars per acre for a perpetual water right foi the purposes of irrigation, and required
the purchase and payment for such water right before extending its distributing system to lands not yet supplied with
water or furnishing such lands with water, which rate was
made uniform and applicable alike to all lands to be furnished
with water within and outside of the city, and such payment
for a water right had ever since been charged as a condition
upon which alone water would be supplied to consumers for
the purposes of irrigation, and many consumers prior to the

OCTOBER TER-M, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

adoption of the ordinance had purchased such water right and
paid therefor;
That the rate charged for such water right was reasonable
and just and was necessary to enable the plaintiff to keep up
and extend its water system so as to supply water to consumers requiring and needing the same, and without which it
could not operate and extend its plant so as to render it available and beneficial to all water consumers that could 'with the
necessary expenditure be supplied from the system;
That 'the lands covered by plaintiff's system were arid and
of but little value without water, and a water right such as it
granted to consumers increased the land in value more than
three times the amount charged for. such right and was of
great value to the land owner;
That the above ordinance fixed the total charge that might
be made by the plaintiff for water furnished for .purposes of
irrigation at four dollars per acre per annum, and as construed
by the city and consumers deprived the plaintiff of all right
to. make any charge for water rights, and the rate was fixed
without taking into account or allowing in any way for such
water right;
That the amount df four dollars per acre per annum was
unreasonably low and required the plaintiff to furnish water
to consumers within the limits of the city for purposes of
irrigation for less than it furnished the same to consumers
outside of the city for the same purpose, and so low that it
could not furnish the same without positive loss to itself;
That large numbers of persons residing within the city
owning land therein and desiring to irrigate the same w@re
demanding that their lands be connected with the plaintiff's
system and supplied with water at the rate of four dollars per
acre per annum and without any payment for a water right,
and under the laws of the State of California if water was
oice furnished to. such parties they thereby obtained a perpetual right to the use of water on their lands without payinent for such water rights; and,
That until the questions as to the validity of the ordinance
and of the right of the plaintiff to charge for a water right

SAN DIEGO LAND COMPANY v. NATIONAL CITY.

745

Statement of the Case.

as a condition upon which it would furnish water for purposes
of irrigation were determined, the plaintiff could not safely
charge for such water rights or collect fair and reasonable
rates for water furnished, by reason of which it would be damaged in the sum of twenty thousand dollars.
The relief asked was a decree adjudging that the rates fixed
by the defendant city were void; that the constitution and
laws of California and the proceedings of the defendant's
board of trustees under them were in violation of the Constitution of the United States, and particularly of the first section
of the Fourteenth Amendment; and that the taking of the
plaintiff's water, without payment for the water right or the
right to the use thereof, was in violation of the Bill of Rights
of the constitution of California.
The plaintiff also prayed that if the court determined that
the state constitution and laws relating to compensation for
the use of water for public purposes were valid, then that it
be declared by decree that the rates fixed in the ordinance
were arbitrary, unreasonable, unjust and void; that the board
of trustees be ordered and required to adopt a new and reasonable rate of charges; and that the enforcement of the
present ordinance be enjoined.
The plaintiff asked that it be further decreed that it was
entitled to charge and collect for water rights at reasonable
rates as a condition upon which it would furnish water for the
purposes of irrigation, notwithstanding the rates fixed by the
trustees for water sold and furnished.
It was denied that the rates fixed by the ordinance in question were unreasonable or unjust, or. that the plaintiff could
not r.ealize within the city sufficient to pay the just proportion
that the city and its inhabitants ought to contribute to the expenses of the plaintiff's system, and as much more as the city
and its inhabitants should justly and reasonably pay toward
interest and profit on plaintiff's investriient as the same existed
when the ordinance was enacted. It was alleged that under
the annual rates fixed by the ordinance the income 6f the plaintiff in the city would be about the same as that derived and
being derived by it under the ordinance previously in force;

OOTOB9R TER~t, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

that it was not true that plaintiff could only supply consumers
within the city at the rates so fixed at a loss; and that to
compel the plaintiff to furnish water at said rates was not a
practical confiscation of its property or a taking of it without
due process of law.
The defendants admitted that the city was composed in considerable part of a territory of farming lands devoted to the
raising of fruits and other products, and that a part thereof
was occupied by residences and business houses. But it was
averred that the populati6n of the city when the ordinance
was adopted was about 1300 persons; that the area within its
boundaries laid out in town lots was about 800 acres, divided
into 6644 lots, of which the plaintiff in January, 1887, owned
4200 ; that the land within the boundaries of the city not laid
off into town lots comprised about 3500 acres, of which the
plaintiff in January, 1888, owned 1289t acres; that when the
ordinance was passed plaintiff continued to own about 3688 of
said lots and about 1184 acres of land; and that the number
of acres of farming land not -under irrigation in the city at
the time when the ordinance was passed was about 610.
If was further stated that since the plaintiff established the
rate of $100 per acre for such "perpetual right for the purpose
of irrigation" it had in no instance supplied water to any
land not already under irrigation except on purchase of said
"water right" and payment therefor; and that the rate charged
for said "water right" was not reasonable or just, nor necessary to enable plaintiff to keep up and extend its water system, so as to supply water to consumers who required and
needed the same.
The defendants insisted that the laws of California did not
confer upon the city or its board of tiustees the power to prescribe by ordinance or otherwise that the purohase and payment of such "water rights" should be a condition to the exercise of the right of consumers to use any water appropriated
for irrigation as already stated, or any water supply affected
with the public use; that $4 per acre per annum was not unreasonably low; and that such rate did not require the plaintiff to furnish water to consumers within the city for purposes

SAN DIEGO LAND COMPANY v. NATIONAt CITY.

7,J7

Opinion of the Court.

of irrigation for less thaq it furnished the same to consumers
outside of the city for the same purposes, or that it could not
furnish the same without positive loss to itself.
It was further averred that up to December, 1892, plaintiff
by its public representations and continuous practice voluntarily conferred and annexed such perpetual rights to the use
of the water on the lands of all persons who requested the
same without the payment of any consideration therefor
except the annual rate of $3.50 per acre adopted by it under
its entire system within and without the city, in addition to
charges made for tap connections with its pipe, ranging from
$12 to $50 for each such connection; that in December, 1892,
it changed its rule and practice, and from that time on until
February, 1895, charged and exacted the payment as and for a
so-called water right of $50 per acre, and from the'latter date
$100 per acre, for the privilege of connecting with its system
any lands not then already under irrigation from it; and that
since December, 1892, it had at all times declined and refused
to connect and had not in fact connected any lands with its
irrigating system except upon payment made to it of such
rates of $50 and $100 per acre respectively for the "water
right;" and that whether plaintiff could or could not safely
charge for such water rights had been in n6 way by law
committed to said board of trustees to determine.
The cause having been heard upon the pleadings and proofs,
the bill was dismissed. -74Fed. Rep. 79.
Mr. Charles D. Lanning, -Yfr. John D. Works,.Mr. G. Wiley
Well, Yr. Bradner W. Zee, and -Yr. Lewis B. Works for
appellant.
Mr. Danil M. Hammack and Mr. Irvine Dungan for
appellees.
MR.JUSTICE HARILI, after stating the case as above, delivered the opinion of the court.
While admitting that the power to limit charges for water
sold by a corporation like itself has been too often upheld to

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

be now questioned, the appellant contends that the constitution and statutes of California relating to rates or compensation to be collected for the use of water supplied to a
municipality or its inhabitants are inconsistent with the Constitution of the United States. It is said that the state constitution and laws authorized rates to be established without
previous notice to the corporation or person immediately
interested in the matter, and without hearing in any form,
and therefore were repugnant to the clause of the Federal
Constitution declaring that no State shall deprive any person
of property without due process of law.
Upon the point just stated we are referred to the decision of
this court in Chicago, .Ailwaukee &c. Railway v. .Ainnesota,
'134 U. S.418, 452, 456, 457. That case involved the constitutionality of a statute of Minnesota empowering a commission
to fix the rates of charges by railroad companies for.the transportation of property. The Supreme Court of the State held that
it was intended by the statute to make the action of the commission final and conclusive as to rates, and that the railroad companies were not at liberty, in any form or at any time, to
question them as being illegal or unreasonable. This court said:
"This being the construction of the statute by which we are
bound in considering the present case, we are of opinion that,
so construed, it conflicts with the Constitution of the United
States in the particulars complained of by the railroad company. ' It deprives the company of its right to a judicial investigation, by due process of law, under the forms and with the
machinery provided by the wisdom of successive ages for the
investigation, judicially, of the truth of a matter in controversy,
and substitutes therefor, as an absolute finality, the action of
a railroad commission which, in vieW of the powers conceded
to it by the state court, cannot be regarded. as clothed with
judicial functions or possessing the machinery of a court of
justice." "By the second section of the statute in question it is
provided that all charges made by a common carrier for the
transportation of passengers or property shall be equal and
reasonable. Under this provision the carrier has a right to
make equal and reasonable charges for such transportation.

SAN DIEGO LAND COMPANY v.NATIONAL CITY.

749

Opinion of the Court.

In the present case, the return alleged that the rate of charge
fixed by the commission was not equal or reasonable, and the
Supreme Court held that the statute deprived the company of
the right to show that judicially. The question of the reasonableness of a rate of charge for trangportation by a railroad
company, involving, as it does, the element of reasonableness,
both as regards the company and as regards the public, is
eminently a question for judicial investigation, requiring due
process of law for its determination. If the company is
deprived of the power of charging reasonable rates for the
use of its property, and such deprivation takes place in the absence of an investigation by judicial machinery, it is deprived
of the lawful use of its property,. and thus, in substance and
effect, of the property itself, without due process of law, andin violation of the Constitution of the United States; and in
so far as it is thus deprived, while other persons are permitted
to receive reasonable profits upon their invested capital, the.
company is deprived of the equal protection of the litws."
Observe that this court based its interpretation of the statute
of Minnesota.upon the construction given to it by the Supreme
Court of that State.
What this court said about the Minnesota statute can have
no application to the present case unless it be made to appear
that the constitution and' laws of Califorfiia invest 'the municipal authorities of that State with power to fix water rates
arbitrarily, without investigation, and without permiitting the
corporations or persons affected thereby to make any showing
as to rates to be exacted or to be heard at any time or in any
way upon the subject. The contention of appellant is that
such is the purpose and necessary effect of the constitution ofthe State. We are not at liberty so to interpret that instrument.. What the Supreme Court of -California said in,
Spring
Val'y Water Woks v. San Franciso,82 California, 286, 306,
307, 309, 315, upon this subject would 'eem to be a sufficient
answer to the views expressed by the appellant. In that case
it was contended that a board of supervisors had fixed rates
arbitrarily, without investigating, without any exercise of judgment or discretion, without any reference to what they should-

750

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

,be, and without reference either to the expense incurred in
furnishing water or to what was fair compensation therefor.
The court said: "The constitution does not contemplate any
such mode of fixing rates. It is not a matter of guesswork or
an arbitrary fixing of rates without reference to the rights of
the water company or the public. When the constitution
provides for the fixing of rates or compensation, it means reasonable rates and just compensation. To fix suoA rates and
compensation is the duty and within the jurisdiction of the
board. To fix rates not reasonable or compensation not just,
is a plain violation of its duty. But the courts cannot, after
the board has fully and fairly investigated and acted, by fixing what it believes to be reasonable rates, step in and say its
action shall be set aside and nullified because the courts, upon
a similar investigation, have come to a different conclusion as
to the reasonableness of the rates fixed. There must be actual
fraud in fixing the rates, or they must be so palpably and
grossly unreasonable and unjust as to amount to the same
thing." "The fact that the right to store and dispose of water
is a public use subject to the control of the State, and that its
regulation is provided for by the constitution of this State, does
not affect the question!. -Regulation of this State as provided
for in the constitution does not mean confiscation or taking
without just compensation. If it does, then our constitution is
clearly in violation of the Constitution of the United States,
which provides that this shall not be done. The ground taken
by the appellant is, that the fixing of rates is a legislative act;
that by the terms of the constitution, the board of supervisors
are made a part of the legislative department of the state
government and exclusive power given them which cannot be
encroached upon by the courts. . . . This court has held
that the fixing of water rates is a legislative act, at least to
the extent that the action of the proper bodies clothed with
such power cannot be controlled by writs which can issue only
for the purpose of coiitrolling judioial action. Spring Talley Water Mories v. Bryant, 52 California, 132; Spring Valley
Water Workcs v. City and .founty of San Francisco,52 California, 11; Spring Valley Water Works v. Bartlett, 63 Cali-

SAN DIEGO LAND COMPANY v. NATIONAL CITY.

751

Opinion of the Court.

fornia, 245. There are other cases holding the act to be legislative, but whether it is judicial, legislative or administrative
is immaterial. Let it be which it may, it'is not above the
control of the courts in proper cases. . . . We are not
inclined to the doctrine asserted by the appellant in this case,
that every subordinate body of officers to whom the legislature delegates what may be regarded as legislative power
thereby becomes a part of the legislative branch of the state
government and beyond judicial control. In the case of Davis
v. .Mayor etc. of New York, 4 Duer, 451, 497, it' is further
said: '. . . The doctrine, exactly as stated, may be true
when applied to the legislature of the State, which, as a
codrdinate branch of the government representing and exercising in its sphere the sovereignty of the people, is, for political reasons of manifest force, wholly exempt in all its proceedings from any legal process or judicial control; but the
doctrine is not'nor is any portion of -ittrue when applied to a
subordinate municipal body, which, although clothed to some
extent with legislative and even political powers, is yet, in the
exercise of all its powers, just as subject to the authority and
control-ofi courts of justice, to legal process, legal-restraint and
legal correction, as any other body or person, natural or artificial."' Again: "On the part of the respondent it is cofttended, in support of the decision of the court below, that
notice to the plaintiff of an intention to fix the rates was necessary, and that without such notice being given, the action of
the board was a taking of its property without due process of
law. But the constitution is self-executing, and as it does not
require notice, we think no notice was necessary. It does not
follow, however, that because no notice is necessary, the board
are for that -reason excused from applying to corporations or
individuals interested to obtain all information necessary to
enable it to act intelligibly and fairly in fixing the rates.. This
is its plain duty, and: a, failure to make the proper effort to
procure all necessary information from whatever source may
defeat its action."
In the more recent case of San Diego Water Co. v. San
Diego, 118 California, 556, 566, the. state court, referring to

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

section 1 of the constitution of California, said that the meaning ,of that section was that "the governing body of the
municipality, upon a fair investigation, and with the exercise
of judgment and discretion, shall fix reasonable rates and
allow just compensation. If they attempt to act arbitrarily,
without investigation, or without the exercise of judgment
and discretion, or if they fix rates so palpably unreasonable
and unjust as to amount to arbitrary action, they violate
their duty and go beyond the powers conferred upon them.
Such was the conclusion reached by this court in Spring
VFalley Water Works v. San Francico,82 California, 285, to
which conclusion we adhere. Although that case was decided
without the light cast on the subject by later decisions of the
Supreme Court of.the United States, and contains some observations that perhaps require- modification, we are satisfied
with the correctness of the conclusion [construction] there
given to this section of the constitution."
Was the appellant entitled to formal notice as to the precise
day upon which the water rates would be fixed by ordinance ?
We think not. The constitution itself was notice of the fact
that ordinances or resolutions fixing rates would be passed
annually in the month of February in each year and would
take effect on the first day of July thereafter. It was made
by statute the duty of the appellee at least thirty days prior
to the 15th day of January in each year to obtain from the
appellant a detailed statement, showing the names of water
rate payers, the amount paid by each during the preceding
year, and "1all revenue derived from all sources," and the
"expenditures made for supplying water during said time."
It was the right and duty of.appellaut in January of each
month to make a detailed statement, under oath, showing
every fact necessary to a proper conclusion as .to the rates
that should be allowed by ordinance. Act of March T,
1881, § 2, above cited. Provision was thus made for a hearing
..in an appropridte way., The defendant's board could not
have refused to receive the statement referred to in the
statute, or to 'have 'duly considered it. and given it proper
weight in determining rates. If the State by its constitution

SAN DIEGO LAND COMPANY v. NATIONAL CITY. "753
-Opinion of the Court.

or laws had forbidden the city or its board to receive and
consider any statement or showing made by the appellant
touching the subject of rates, a different question would have
arisen. But no such case is now presented. In' Hentucky
.Railroad Tax caea8, 115 U. S. 321, 333, it was said.: "This
return made by the corporation through its officers, is the
statement of its own case, in all the particulars that enter into
the question of the value of its taxable property, and may be
verified and fortified by such explanations and proofs as it
may see fit to insert. It is laid by the auditor' of public
accounts before the board of railroad commissioners, and
constitutes the matter on which they are to act. They are
required to meet for that purpose on the first day of September of each year at the office of the auditor at the seat of
government. . . . These meetings. are public and not secret. The time and place for holding them are fixed by law."'
There is no ground to say that the appellant did not in
fact have or was denied an opportunity to be heard upon the
question of rates. On the contrary, it appears in evidence
that the subject of rates was considered in conferences between the local authorities and the officers of the appellant.
Those officers may not.have been present at the final meeting
of the city board when the ordinance complained of was
passed. They were not entitled, of right, to be present at
that particular meeting. They were heard, and there is
nothing to justify the conclusion that the case of the appellant was not fully considered before the ordinance was passed.
That it was competent for the State of California to declare
that the use of all water appropriated for sale, rental or distribution should be a public use and subject to public regulation and control, and that it could confer upon the proper
municipal corporation power to fix the rates of compensation
to be collected for the use of water supplied to any city,
county or town or to the inhabitants thereof, is not disputed,
and is not, as we think, to be. doubted. It is equally clear
that this power could not be exercised arbitrarily and without
reference to what was just and reasonable as. between the
public and those who appropriated water and supplied 'it for
VOL. CLxxv-48

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

general use; for the State cannot by any of its agencies,
legislative, executive or judicial, withhold from the owners
of private property just compensation for its use.: That would
be a deprivation of property without due process of law.
Chicago, Burlington &c. Railroadv. Chicago, 166 U. S. 226;

Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S. 466, 524. But it should also be
remembered that the judiciary ought not to interfere with
the collection of rates established under legislative sanction
-unless they are so plainly and palpably unreasonable as to
make their enforcement equivalent to the taking of property
for public use without such compensation as under all the
circumstances is just both to the owner and to the public;
that is, judicial interference should never occur unless the case
presents, clearly and beyond all doubt, such a flagrant attack
upon the rights of property under the guise of regulations
as to compel the court to say that the rates prescribed will
necessarily have the effect to deny just compensation for private property taken for the public use. Chicago & Grand
'Trunk Railway v. TVellman, 143 U. S. 339, 344; Reagan v.
Farmers'Loan & Trust Co., 154 U. S. 362, 399; Smyth v.
Ames, above cited. See also Henderson Bridge Co. v. Hendersoai City, 173 U. S.592, 614, 615.
In view of these principles, can it be said that the rates in
question are so unreasonable as to call for judicial interference
in behalf of the appellant? Such a question is alway§ an em-barrassing one to a judicial tribunal, because it is primarily
for the determination of the legislature or of some public
agency designated by it. But when it is alleged that a state
enactment invades or destroys rights secured by the Constitution of the United States a judicial question arises, and the
courts, Federal and state, must meet the issue, taking care
always not to entrench upon the authority belonging to a
different department, no, to disregard a statute unless it be
unmistakably repugnant to the fundamental law.
What elements are involved in the general inquiry as to
the reasonableness of rates established by law for the use of
property by the public? This question received much consideration in Smyth V. Ames, above cited. That case, it is

SAN DIEGO LAND COMPANY v.NATIONAL CITY.

755

Opinion of the Court.,

true, related to rates established by a statute of Nebraska
for railroad companies doing business in that State. But
the principles involved in such a case are applicable to the
present case. It was there contended that a railroad company was entitled to exact such charges for transportation
as would enable it at all times, not only to pay operating expenses, but to meet the interest regularly accruing upon all
its outstanding obligations and justify a dividend upon all
its stock; and that to prohibit it from maintaining rates or
charges for transportation adequate to all those ends would
be a deprivation of property without due process of law, and
a denial of ihe equal protection of the laws. After observing
that this broad proposition involved a misconception of the
relations between the public and a railroad corporation, that
such a corporation was created for public purposes and performed a function of the State, and that its right to exercise
the power of eminent domain and to charge tolls was given
primarily for the benefit of the public, this court said: '-It
cannot, therefore, be admitted that a railroad corporation
maintaining a highway under the authority of the State may
fix its rates with a view solely to its own interests, and ignore
the rights of the public. But the rights of the public would
be ignored if rates for the transportation of persons or property on a railroad are exacted without reference to the fair
value of the property used for the public or the fair value
of the services rendered, but in order simply that the corporation may meet operating expenses, pay the interest on its
obligations, and declare a dividend to stockholders. If a
railroad corporation has bonded its property for an amount
that exceeds its fair value, or if its capitalization is largely
fictitious, it may not impose upon the public the burden of
such increased rates as may be required for the purpose of
realizing profits upon such excessive valuation or fictitious
capitalization; and the apparent value of the- property and
franchises used by the corporation, as' represented by its
stocks, bond§ and obligations, is not alone to be considered
when determining the rates that may be reasonably charged."
169 U. S. 544. In the same case it was also said that "the

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the .Court.

basis of all calculation as to the reasonableness of rates to
be charged by a corporation maintaining a highway under
legislative sanction must be the fair value of the property
used by it for the convenience of the public. And in order
to ascertain that value, the original cost of construction, the
amount expended in permanent improvements, the amount
and market value of its bonds and stock, the present as compared with the original cost of construction, the probable
earning capacity of the property under particular rates prescribed by statute, and the sum required to meet operating
expenses, are all matters for consideration, and are to be
given such weight as may be just and right in each case.
We do not say that there may not be other matters to be
regarded in estimating the value of the property. What
the company is entitled to ask is a fair return upon the value
of that which it employs for the public convenience. On
the other hand, what the public is entitled to demand is that
no more be exacted from it for the .se of a public highway
than the services rendered by it are reasonably worth." 169
U. S. 466, 546.
This court had previously held in Covington c&Lexington
Turnpike Road Conpany v. Sandford, 164 U. S. 578, 597,
598 - which case involved the reasonableness of rates established by legislative enactment for a turnpike company that a corporation performing public services was not entitled, as of right and without reference to the interests of
the public, to realize a given per cent upon its capital stock;
that stockholders were not the only persons whose rights or
interests were to be considered; and-that the rights of the
public were not to be ignored. The court in that case further said; "Each case mfist depend upon its special facts;
and when a court, without assuming itself to prescribe rates,
is required to determine whether the rates prescribed by the
legislature for a corporation controlling a public highway are,
as an entirety, so unjust as to destroy the value of its property for all the purposes for which it was acquired, its duty
is to take into consideration the interests both of the public
and of the owner of the property, together with all other

SAN DIEGO LAND COM]PANY v. NATIONAL CITY.

757

Opinion of the Coqrt.

circumstances that are fairly to be considered in determining
whether the legislature has, under the guise of regulating
rates, exceeded its constitutional authority, and practically
deprived the owner of property without due process of law.
. . . The utmost that any corporation operating a public
highway can rightfully demand at the hands of the legislature, when exerting its general powers, is that it receives
what under all the circumstances is such compensation for
the use of its property as will be just both to it and to the
public."
These principles are recognized in recent decisions of the
Supreme Court of California.
San Diego Water' Co. v. San
Diego, (1897) 118 California, 556; Redland: .Domesetic Water
Co. v. Redlands, (1898) 53 Pac. Rep. 843, 844.
The contention of the appellant in the present case is that
in ascertaining what are just rates the court should take into
consideration the cost of its plant; the cost per annum of
operating the plant, including interest paid on money borrowed and reasonably necessary to be used in constructing'
the same; the annual depreciation of the plant from natuial
causes resulting from its use ; and a fair profit to the company over and above such charges for its services in supply-'
ing the water to consumers, either by, way of interest on the
money it has expended for the public use, or upon some
other fair and equitable basis. Undoubtedly, all these m&tters ought to be taken into consideration, and such weight
be given them, when rates are being fixed, as under all the
circumstances will be just to the company and to the public.
The basis of calculation suggested by the appellant is, however, defective in not requiring the real value of the property
and the fair value in themselves of the services rendered to
be taken into consideration. What the company is entitled
to demand, in- order that it may have just conapensation, is
a fair return upon the reasonable valfie of the property at
the time it is being used for the public. The property may
have cost more than it ought to have cost, and its outstanding bonds for money borrowed and which went into the plant
may be in excess of the real value of the property. So that

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

it cannot be said that the amount of such bonds should in
every case control the question of rates, although it may be
an element in the inquiry as to what is, all the circumstances
considered, just both to the company and to the public.
One of the points in dispute involves the question whether
the losses to the appellant arising from the distribution of
water to consumers outside of the city are to be considered in
fixing the rates for consumers within the city. In our judgibent the Circuit Court properly held that the defendant city
was not required to adjust rates for water furnished to it and
to its inhabitants so as to compensate the plaintiff for any
such losses. This is so clear that we deem it unnecessary to
do more than to state the conclusion reached by us on this
point.
One of the questions pressed upon our consideration is
whether the ordinance of the city should have expressly
allowed the appellant to charge for what is called a "water
right." That right, as defined by appellant's counsel, is one
"to the continued and perpetual use of the water upon the
lafid to which it has been once supplied upon payment of
rates therefor established by the company." In the opinion
of 'the Circuit Court it is said that "' no authority can anywhere be found for any charge for the so-called water right."
This view is controverted by appellant, and cases are cited
which, it is contended, show that the broad declaration of the
Circuit Court cannot be sustained. Fresno Canal & Irrigation, o. v. Rowell, 80 California, 114; Same v. Dunbar, 80
California, 530; San Diego Flume Co. v. Chase, 87 California,
561;' Clyne v. Benicia Water Co., 100 California, 310; San
Diego Flume Co. v. Souther, 90 Fed. Rep. 164.
We are of opinion that it is not necessary to the determination of the present case that this question should be decided.
We are dealing here with an ordinance fixing rates or compensation to be collected within a given year for the use of
water supplied to a city and its inhabitants or to any corporation, company or person doing business or using water
within the limits of that city. In our judgment, the defendant correctly says in its answer that the laws of the State

SAI DIEGO LA2ND COMPA NY v. NATIONAL CITY.

759

Opinion of the Court.

have not conferred upon it or its board of trustees the power
to prescribe by ordinance or otherwise that the purchase and
payment for so-called "water rights" should be a condition to
the exercise of the right of consumers to use any water appropriated for irrigation or affected with a public use.
The only issue properly to be determined by a final decree
in this cause is whether the ordinance in question, fixing rates
for water supplied for use within the city, is to be stricken
down as confiscatory by its necessary operation, and therefore
in violation of the Constitution of the United States. If the
ordinance, considered in itself, and as applicable to water used
within the city, is not open to any such objection, that disposes of the case, so far as any rights of the appellant may
be affected by the action of the defendant. The appellant
asks, among other things, that it be decreed to be entitled to
charge and collect for "water rights" at reasonable rates as a
condition upoh which it will furnish water for the purposes of
irrigation, notwithstanding the rates fixed by the defendant's
board of trustees for water sold and furnished within the city.
That is a question wholly apart from the inquiry as to the
validity under the Constitution of the United States of the
ordinance of the defendant fixing annual rates in performance
of the duty enjoined upon it by the constitution and laws of
the State. Counsel for appellant, while insisting that the
Circuit Court erred in saying that there was no such 'thing
as a "water right," says: "The constitution of the State has
nothing whatever to do with a water right or the price, that
shall be paid for it. It simply provides for fixing the annual
rental to be paid for the water furnished and used. When
one obtains his water right by purchase or otherwise, he has
a right to demand that the water shall be furnished to his
lands at the price fixed, as provided by law, and that the
company shall exact no more. But he must first acquire the
right to have the water on such terms. Whether in fixing
the annual rates to be charged, the body authorized to fix
them can take into account the amount that has been received
by the company for water rights, is another question, and one
that is not presented in this case. Nor is any question raised

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
-Opinion of the Couirt.

as to what would be a reasonable amount to exact for a water
right, or whether the courts can interfere to determine what is
a reasonable amount to charge therefor."
These reasons are sufficient to sustain the conclusion already
announced, namely, that the present case does not require or
admit of a decree declaring that the appellant may, in addition
to the rates established by the ordinance, charge for what is
called a "water right" as defined by it. It will be time
enough to decide .such a point when a case actually arises between the appellant and some person or corporation involving
the question whether the former may require, as a condition
of its furnishing water within the limits of the city on the
terms prescribed by the defendant's ordinance, that it be also
paid for what is called a "water right."
We will not extend this opinion by an analysis of all the
evidence. It is sufficient to say that upon a careful scrtiny.of the testimony our conclusion i that no case is made
that will authorize a decree declaring that the rates fixed by
the defendant's ordinance, looking at them in their entirety and we cannot properly look at them in any other light- are
such as amount to a taking of property without just compensation, and therefore to a deprivation of property without due
prbcess of law. There is evidence both ways. But we do not
think that we are ,warranted in holding that the rules upon
which the defendant's board proceeded were in disregard of
the principles heretofore announced by this court in the cases
cited. The case is not one for judicial interference with the
action 6f the local authorities to whom the question of rates
was committed by the State.
The decree dismissing the bill is

