OCTOBER TERMI, 1898.
Syllabus.

levy of taxes upon the property situated within the State;
and the only questi6n is whether it was competent to ascertain the number of the cars to be subjected to taxation by inquiring into the average number used within the state limits
during the period for which the assessment was made.
It having been settled, as we have seen, that where a corporation of one State brings into another, to use and employ,
a portion of its movable personal property, it is legitimate for
the latter to impose upon such property, thus used and employed, its fair share of the burdens of taxation imposed upon
similar property used in like way by its own citizens, we think
that such a tax may be properly assessed and collected, in cases
like the present, where the specific and individual items of
property so used and employed were not continuously the same,
but were constantly changing, according to the exigencies of
the business, and that the tax may be fixed by an appraisement and valuation of the average amount of the property
thus habitually used and employed. Nor would the fact that
such cars were employed as vehicles of transportation in the interchange of interstate commerce render their taxation invalid.
3farye v. Baltimore & Ohio Railroad,127 U. S. 117; Pullman's Palace Car Co. v. Pennsylvania, 141 U. S. 18.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the State of Colorado is accordingly
-Afflrmed.
M . JusTICE HARLAN and MRt. JUsTICE Wamrr
HOLMES

.

dissented.

URST.

APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPRA.S FO

THE SE4COND

CIRCUIT.
No. 124. Argued March 3, 1899. -Decided April 24, 1899.
The serial publication of a book in a monthly magazine, prior to any steps
taken toward securing a copyright, is such a publication of the same
within the meaning of the act of February 3, 1831, c. 16, as to vitiate a
copyright of the whole book, obtained subsequently, but prior to the publication of the boolk as an entirety,

HOLMES v. HURST.
Statement of the Case.

Tnxs was a bill in equity by the executor of the will of the
late Dr. Oliver Wendell Holmes, praying for an injunction
against the infringement of the copyright of a book originally
published by plaintiff's testator under the title of "The Autocrat of the Breakfast Table."
The case was tried upon an agreed statement of facts, the
material portions of which are as follows:
Dr. Holmes, the testator, was the author of "The Autocrat
of the Breakfast Table," which, during the years 1857 and
1858, was published by Phillips, Sampson & Company of Boston, in twelve successive numbers of the Atlantic Monthly, a
periodical magazine published by them, and having a large
circulation. Each of these twelve numbers was a bound
volume of 128 pages, consisting of a part of "The Autocrat
of the Breakfast Table," and of other literary compositions.
These twelve parts were published under an agreement between
Dr. Holmes and the firm of Phillips, Sampson & Company,
whereby the author granted them the privilege of publishing
the same, the firm stipulating that they should have no other
right in or to said book-. No copyright was secured, either by
the author or by the firm or by any other person, in any of
the twelve numbers so published in the Atlantic Monthly; but
on November 2, 1858, after the publication of the last of the
twelve numbers, Dr. Holmes deposited a printed copy of
the title of the book in the clerk's office of the District Court
of the District of Massachusetts, wherein the author resided,
which copy the clerk recorded. The book was published by
Phillips, Sampson & Company in a separate volume on November 22, 1858, and upon the same day a copy of the same was
delivered to the clerk of the District Court. The usual notice,
namely, "Entered according to act of Congress, 1858, by
Oliver Wendell Holmes, in the Clerk's Office of the District
Court of the District of Massachusetts," was printed in every
copy of every edition of the work subsequently published, with
a slight variation in the edition published in June, 1871.
On July 12, 1886, Dr. Holmes recorded the title a second
time; sent a printed copy of the title to the Librarian of Congress, who recorded the same in a book kept for that purpose,

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

and also caused a copy of this record to be published in the
Boston Weekly A dvertiser; and in the several copies of every
edition subsequently published was the following notice:
"Copyright, 1886, by Oliver Wendell Holmes."
Since November 1, 1894,, defendant has sold and disposed
of a limited number of copies of the book entitled "The Auto'crat of the Breakfast Table," all of which were copied by the
defendant frotm the twelve numbers of the Atlantic -Monthly
exactly as they were originally published, and upon each copy
so sold or disposed of a notice appeared that the same was
taken from the said twelve numbers of the Atlantic Monthly.
The case was heard upon the pleadings and this agreed
statement of facts, by the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of New York, and the bill dismissed. 76 Fed. Rep. 757.
From this decree an appeal was taken to the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit, by which the decree of the
Circuit Court was affirmed. 51 U. S. App. 271. Whereupon
plaintiff took an appeal to this court..
Xr.Rowland V'ox for appellant.
.I'. Andrew Gilhooly for appellee.
MR. JusTiCE BROWN, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
This case raises the question whether the serial publication
of a book in a monthly magazine, prior to any steps taken
toward securing a copyright, is such a publication of the
same within the meaning of the act of February 3, 1831,
c. 16, 4 Stat. 436, as to vitiate a copyright of the whole book,
obtained subsequently but prior to the publication of the- book
as an entirety.
The right of an author, irrespective of statute, to his own
productions and to a control of their publication, seems to
have been recognized by the common law, but to have been so
ill defined that from an early period legislation was adopted
to regulate and limit such right. The earliest recognition of

HOLMES v. HURST.

. 95

Opinion of the Court.

this common law right is to be found in the charter of the
Stationers' Company, and certain decrees of the Star Cham-,
ber promulgated in 1556, 1585, 1623 and 1637, providing for
licensing and regulating the manner of printing, and the
number of presses throughout the Kingdom, and prohibiting
the publication of unlicensed books. Indeed, the Star Chamber seems to have exercised the power of search, confiscation
and imprisonment without interruption from Parliament, up
to its abolition in 1641. From this time the law seems to
have been in an unsettled state- although Parliaihent made
some efforts to restrain the licentiousness of the press -until
the eighth year of Queen Anne, when the first copyright act
was passed, giving authors a monopoly in the publication of
their works for a period of from fourteen to twenty-eight
years. Notwithstanding this act, however, the chancery
courts continued to hold that, by the common law and independently of legislation, there was a property of unlimited
duration in printed books. This principle was affirmed so
late as 1769 by the Court of King's Bench in the very carefully considered case of Xillar v. Taylor, 4 Burrows, 2303,
in which the right of the author of "Thompson's Seasons," to
a monopoly of this work, was asserted and sustained. But a
few years thereafter the House of Lords, upon an equal division of the judgds, declared that the common law right had
been taken away by the statute of Anne, and that authors
were limited in their monopoly by that act. Donaldsons v.
Becket, 4 Burrows, 2408. This remains the law of England
to the present day. An act similar in its provisions to the
statute of Anne was enacted by Congress in 1790, and the
construction put upon the latter in Donaldsons v. Becket,
was followed by this court in Wheato'm v. Peters, 8 Pet. 591..
While the propriety of these decisions has been the subject
of a good deal of controversy among legal writers, it seems
now to be considered the settled law of this country and England that the right of an author to a monopoly of his publications is measured and determined by the copyright act- in
other words, that while a right did exist by common law, it
has been superseded by statute.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

The right thus secured by the copyright act is not a right
to the use of certain words, because they are the common
property of the human race, and are as little susceptible of
private appropriation as air or sunlight; nor is it the right
to ideas alone, since in the absence of means of communicating them they are of value to no one but the author. But
the right is to that arrangement of words which the author
has selected to express his ideas. Or, as Lord Mansfield describes it, "an incorporeal right to print a set of intellectual
ideas, or modes of thinking, communicated in a set of words
or sentences, and modes of expression. It is equally detached
from the manuscript, or any other physical existence whatsoever." 4 Burrows, 2396. The nature of this property is perhaps best defined by Mr. Justice Erle in Jefferys v. Boosey,
4 H. L. 0. 815, 867: " The subject of property is the order
of words in the author's composition; 'not the words themselves, they being analogous to the elements of matter, which
are not appropriated unless combined, nor the ideas expressed
by those words, they existing in the mind alone, which is not
capable of appropriation."
The right of an author to control the publication of his
works, at the time the title to the "Autocrat" was deposited,
was governed by the act of February 3, 1831, c. 16, 4 Stat.
436, wherein it is enacted:
"SEc. 1. That from and after the passing of this act, any
person or persons, being a citizen or citizens of the United
States, or resident therein, who shall be the author or authors
of a book or books, map, chart or musical composition, which
may be now made or composed, and not printed and published,
or shall hereafter be made or composed,

.

.

.

shall have

the sole right and liberty of printing, reprinting, publishing
and vending such book or books,

.

.

.

in whole or in

part, for the term of twenty-eight years from the time of recording the title thereof, in the manner hereinafter directed."
"SEoC. 4. That no person shall be entitled to the benefit of
this act, unless he shall, before publication, deposit a printed
copy of the title of such book or books

.

'.

.

in the clerk's

office of the District Court of the District wherein the author

HOLMES v. HURST.
Opinion of the Court.

or proprietor shall reside, etc. And the author and proprietor
of any such book . . . shall, within three months from
the publication of said book, . . . deliver or cause to be

delivered a copy of the same to the clerk of said District."
The substance of these enactments is that, by section one,
the author is only entitled to a copyright of books not printed
and published; and by section four, that, as a preliminary to
the recording of a copyright, he must, before publication, deposit a printed copy of the title of such book, etc.
The argument of the plaintiff in this connection is, that the
publication of the different chapters of the book in the Atlantic
Monthly was not a publication of the copyright book which
was the subject of the statutory privilege; that if Dr. Holmes
had copyrighted and published the twelve parts, one after the
other, as they were published in the magazine, or separately,
there would still have remained to him an inchoate right,
having relation to the book as a whole; that his copyright
did not cover and include the publication of the twelve parts
printed as they were printed in the Atlantic Monthly, and
that while the defendant had a right to make copies of those
parts and to sell them separately or collectively, he had no right
to combine them into a single volume, since that is the real
subject of the copyright; Counsel further insisted that, if the
author had deposited the twelve parts of the book, one after
the other, as they were composed, he would not have acquired
the statutory privilege to which he seeks to give effect; that
to secure such copyright it was essential to do three things:
(1) Deposit the title "The Autocrat of the Breakfast Table;"
(2) deposit a copy of the book "The Autocrat of the Breakfast Table;" and (3) comply with the provisions concerning
notice; that he could acquire the privilege of copyright only
by depositing a copy of the very book for which he was seeking protection; that if the taking of a copyright for each
chapter created a privilege which was less than the privilege
which would have been acquired by withholding the manuscript
until the book was completed, and then taking the copyright,
this copyright is valid. His position briefly is that no one of
the twelve copyrights, if each chapter were copyrighted, nor

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

all of them combined, could be held to be a copyright, in the
sense of the statute, of the book, which is the subject of the
copyright in question; and that neither separately nor collectively could they constitute the particular privilege, which is
the subject of the copyright of "The Autocrat of the Breakfast Table," as a whole.
We find it unnecessary to determine whether the requirement of section four could have been met by a deposit of the
book, "The Autocrat of the Breakfast Table," prior to the
publication of the first part in the Atlantic Monthly, or
whether, for the complete protection of the author, it would
be necessary that each part should be separately copyrighted.
This would depend largely upon the question whether the
three months from the publication, within which the author
must deposit a copy of the book with the clerk, would run
from the publication of the first or the last number in the
Atlantic Monthly.
That there was a publication of the contents of the book in
question, and of the entire contents, is beyond dispute. It follows from this that defendant might have republished in another magazine these same numbers as they originally appeared
in the Atlantic Monthly. He might also, before the copyright was obtained, have published them together, paged them
continuously, and bound them in a volume. Indeed, the
learned counsel for the plaintiff admits that the defendant
had the right to make copies of these several parts, and to sell
them separately or collectively; but insists that he had no
right to combine them in a single volume. The distinction
between publishing these parts collectively and publishing
them in a single volume appears to be somewhat shadowy;
but assuming that he had no such right, it must be because
the copyright protected the author, not against the republishing of his ihtellectual productions or "the order of his words,"
but against the assembling of such productions in a single volume. The argument leads to the conclusion that the whole is
greater than the sum of all the parts -a principle inadmissible in logic as well as in matfiematics. If the soveral parts
had been once dedicated to the public, and the monopoly of the

HOTLMIES v. HURST.
Opinion of the Court.

author thus abandoned, we do not see how it could be reclaimed by collecting such parts together in the form of a book,
unless we are to assume that the copyright act covers the process of aggregation as well as that of intellectual production.
The contrary is the fact.
If the patent law furnishes any analogy in this particular
and we see no reason whkr it may not - then ther6 is nothing better settled than that a mere aggregation of familiar
elements, producing no new result, is not a patentable combination. Haile8 v. Fan Wormer, 20 Wall. 353; 1?ecendorfer
v. Faber, 92 U. S. 347; Pickering v. cCullougk, 104: U. S.
310; Richar4s v. C'ase Elevator Co., 158 U. S. 299. But if
there were anything more than mechanical skill involved in
the collocation of the several parts of this work, it would be
the exercisa of inventive genius and the subject of a patent
rather than a copyright. -If an author permit his intellectual
production to be published either serially or collectively, his
right to a copyright is lost as effectually as the right of an inventor to a patent upon an invention which he deliberately
abandons to the public -and this, too, irrespective of his actual intention not to make such abandonment. It is the intellectual production of the author which the copyright protects
and not the particular form which such production ultimately
takes, and the word "book" as used in the statute is not to be
understood in its technical sense of a bound volume, but any
species of publication which the author selects to embody his
literary product. We are quite unable to appreciate the distinction between the publication of a book and the publication
of the contents of such book, whether such contents be published piecemeal or en bloc.
If, as contended by the plaintiff, the publication of a book
be a wholly different affair from the publication of the several
chapters serially, then such publication of the parts might be
permitted to go on indefinitely before a copyright for the*
book is applied for, and such copyright used to enjoin a sale
of books which was perfectly lawful when the books were
published. There is no fixed time within which an author
must apply for a copyright, so that it be "before publica-

OCTOBE1R TERMI, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

tion.;" and if the publication of the parts serially be not a
publication of the book, a copyright might be obtained after
the several parts, whether published separately or collectively,
had been in general circulation for years. Surely, this cannot be within the spirit of the act. Under the English copyright act of 1845, provision is made for the publication of
works in a series of books or parts, but it has always been
held that each part of a periodical is a book within the meaning of the act. .Hendersonv. .faxwell, L. R. 4 Oh. Div. 163;
Bradlbury v. Sharp, W. N. (1891) 143.
We have not overlooked the inconvenience which our conclusions will cause, if, in order to protect their articles from
piracy, authors are compelled to copyright each chapter or
instalment as it may appear in a periodical; nor the danger
and annoyance it may occasion to the Librarian of Congress,
with whom copyrighted articles are deposited, if he is compelled to receive such articles as they are published in newspapers and magazines; but these are evils which can be easily
remddied by an amendment of the law.
The infringement in this case consisted in selling copies of
the several parts of "The Autocrat of the Breakfast Table"
as they were published in the Atlantic Monthly, and each
copy so sold was continuously paged so as to form a single
volume. Upon its title page appeared a notice that it was
taken from the Atlantic Monthly. There can be no doubt
that the defendant had the right to publish the numbers
separately as they originally appeared in the Atlantic -Monthly,
(since those numbers were never copyrighted,) even if they
were paged continuously. When reduced to its last analysis,
then, the infringement consists in binding them together in a
single volume. For the reasons above stated, this act is not
the legitimate subject of a copyright.
The decree of the court below must therefore be

Affirmed.

