OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Syllabus.

accused,, no matter from whom, with the intent to convert
them to his own use or gain, and knowing that they had been
stolen from the United States, he could be found guilty of the
crime charged even if it were not shown by the evidence from
whom he received the stamps. This rule cannot work injustice
nor deprive the accused of any substantial right. If it appears
at the trial to be essential in the preparation of his defence
that he should know the name of the person from whom the
Government expected to prove that he received the stolen
property, it would be in the power of the court to require the
prosecution to give a bill of particulars. Coffn. v. United
States, 156 U. S. 432, 452; Rosen v. United States, 161 U. S.
29, 35 ; Commonwealth v. Giles, 1 Gray, 466; Rose. Crim. Ev.
6th ed. 178, 179, 420.
The judgment is reversed, and the case is remanded with
directionsfor a new trial and for further proceedings
consistent with law.
MR. JUSTICE BRoww and

MR.

JUSTIcE

MR. JUSTICE MoKENNA dissented.

Bn.wER did not participate in the decision of

this case.

COSGROVE v. WINKEY.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF MCHIGAN.
No. 172. Submitted January 19, 1899.-Decided April ?4, 1899.

The appellant, a Canadian, was extradited from Canada under the extradition treaty between Great Britain and the United States, and, being
brought before a police court of Detroit was charged with larceny, gave
bail for his appearance at the trial, and returned to Canada. Returning
from Canada to Detroit voluntarily before the time fixed for trial, he
was arrested on a capias issued from the District Court of the United
States for the Eastern District of Michigan before his extradition, charging him with an offence for which he was not extraditable, and was
taken into custody by the marshal of that district. He applied to the
District Court of the United States for a writ of habeas corpus which

COSGROVE v. WNTfNEY.
Statement of the Case.
was allowed. After hearing and argument his application for a aischarge
was refused by the District Court. On appeal to this court it is Held:
That under the circumstances the appellant retained the right to have
the offence for which he was extradited disposed of, and then to depart
in peace, and that this arrest was in abuse of the high process under
which he was originally brought into the United States, and cannot be
sustained.

NOVEMBER 7, 1895, Winney, United States marshal for the
Eastern District of Michigan, made a complaint before one
of the police justices of the city of Detroit within that district against Thomas Cosgrove for the larceny of a boat,
named the Aurora, her tackle, etc., whereon a warrant issued
for his arrest. Cosgrove was a resident of Sarnia, in the
Province of Ontario, Dominion of Canada, and extradition
proceedings were had in accordance with the treaty between
the United States and Great Britain, which resulted in a
requisition on the Canadian Government, which was duly
honored, and a surrendering warrant issued May 19, 1896,
on which Cosgrove was brought to Detroit to respond to
the charge aforesaid; was examined in the police court of
Detroit; was bound over to the July term, 1896, of the recorder's court of that city; and was by that court held for
trial, and furnished bail. He thereupon went to Canada, but
came back to Detroit in December, 1896.
December 3, 1895, a capias issued out of the District Court
of the United States for the Eastern District of Michigan, on
an indictment against Cosgrove, on the charge of obstructing
the United States marshal in the execution of a writ of attachment, which was not served until December 10, 1896, some
months after Cosgrove had been admitted to bail in the
recorder's court.
Cosgrove having been taken into custody by the marshal
applied to the District Court for a writ of habeas corpus, which
was issued, the marshal made return, and the cause was duly
argued.
The court entered a final order denying the application and
remanding the petitioner. From this order an appeal was
taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals, and there dismissed,
VOL. CLXX

-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

whereupon an appeal to this court was allowed, and Cosgrove
discharged on his own recognizance.
The district judge stated in his opinion that it appeared
"that the property, for the taking of which he [Cosgrove]
is charged with larceny, was the vessel which, under the indictment in this court, he was charged with having unlawfully taken from the custody of the United States marshal,
while the same was held under a writ of attachment issued
from the District Court in admiralty."
And further: "The only question which arises under this
treaty therefore is whether upon the facts stated in the return which was not traversed, the petitioner has had the opportunity secured him by that treaty to return to his own
couhtry. If he has had such opportunity, then article 3 has
not been violated, either in its letter or spirit, by the arrest
and detention of the petitioner. It is conceded that he was
delivered to the authorities of the State of Michigan in May,
1896, to stand his trial upon the charge of larceny. He gave
bail to appear for trial in the recorder's court when required
and immediately returned to Canada. On December 10, 1896,
he voluntarily appeared in the State of Michigan; of his own
motion, and not upon the order of the recorder's court, or at
the instance of his bail, and while in this district was arrested."
.MT'. E.

. Sellers and Xr. Cassius Hollenbe7k for appellant.

Mr. Solicitor Generalfor appellee.
MR. CmEF JijsTIcE FuLLaR delivered the opinion of the

court.
Article three of the Extradition Convention between the
United States and Great Britain, promulgated March 25,
1890, 26 Stat. 1508, and section 5275 of the Revised Statutes,
are as follows:
"Article III. No person surrendered by or to either of
the High Contracting Parties shall be triable or be tried for
any crime or offence, committed prior to his extradition, othev

COSGROVE v. WINNEY.
Opinion of the Court.

than the offence for which he was surrendered, until he shall
have had an opportunity of returning to the country from
which he was surrendered."
"Sxc. 5275. Whenever any person is delivered by any
foreign government to an agent of the United States, for the
purpose of being. brought within the United States and tried
for any crime of which he is duly accused, the President shall
have power to take all necessary measures for the transportation and safekeeping of such accused person, and for his security against lawless violence, until the final conclusion of
his trial for the crimes or offences specified in the warrant of
extradition, and until his final discharge from custody or imprisonment for or on account of such crimes or offences, and
for a reasonable time thereafter, and may employ such portion of the land and naval forces of the United States, or of"
the militia thereof, as may be necessary for the safekeeping
and protection of the accused."
Cosgrove was extradited under the treaty, and entitled to
all the immunities accorded to a person so situated; and it is
admitted that the offence for which he was indicted in the
District Court was committed prior to his extradition, and
was not extraditable. But it is insisted that although he
could not be extradited for one offence and tried for another,
without being afforded the opportunity to return to Canada,
yet as, after he had given bail, he did so return, his subsequent
presence in the United States was voluntary and not enforced,
and therefore he had lost the protection of. the treaty and
rendered himself subject to arrest on the capias and to trial
in the District Court for an offence other than that on which
he was surrendered; and this although the prosecution in the
state court was still pending and undetermined, and Cosgrove
had not been released or discharged therefrom.
Conceding that if Cosgrove had remained in the State of
Michigan and within reach of his bail, he would have been
exempt, the argument is that, as he did not continuously so
remain, and, during his absence in Canada, his sureties could
not have followed him there and compelled his return, if his
appearance happened to be required according t6 the exigency

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

of the bond, which the facts stated show that it was not, it
follows that when he actually did come back to Michigan
he had lost his exemption.
But we cannot concur in this view. The treaty and statute secured to Cosgrove a reasonable time to return to the
country froth which he was surrendered, after his discharge
from custody or imprisdnment for or on account of the offence
for which he had been extradited, and at the time of this
arrest he had not been so discharged by reason of acquittal ;
or conviction and compliance with sentence; or the termination of the state prosecution in any way. United States v.
Rauscher, 119 U. S. 407, 433.
The mere fact that he went to Canada did not in itself put
an end to the prosecution or to the custody in which he was
held by his bail, or even authorize the bail to be forfeited,
and when he reentered Michigan he was as much subject to
the compulsion of his sureties as if he had not been absent.
In Taylor v. Taintor,16 Wall. 366, 371, Mr. Justice Swayne,
speaking for the court, said: "When bail is given, the principal is regarded as delivered to the custody of his sureties.
Their dominion is a continuance of the original imprisonment.
Whenever they choose to do so, they may seize him and deliver him up in their discharge; and if that cannot be done at
once, they may imprison him until it can be done. They
may exercise their rights in person or by agent. They may
pursue him into another State; may arrest him on the Sabbath; and, if necessary, may break and enter his house for
that purpose. The seizure is not made by virtue of new process. None is needed. It is likened to the rearrest by the
sheriff of an escaping prisoner. In 6 Modern, 231, it is said:
'The bail have their principal on a string, and may.pull the
string whenever they please, and render him in their discharge.' The rights of the bail in civil and criminal cases
are the same. They may doubtless permit him to go beyond
the limits of the State within which he is to answer, but it is
unwise and imprudent to do so; and if any evil ensue, they
must bear the burden of the consequences, and cannot cast
them upon the obligee."

COSGROVE v. WINNIEY.
Opinion of the Court.

We think the conclusion cannot be maintained on this
record that, because of Cosgrove's temporary absence, he had
waived or lost an exemption which protected him while'he
was subject to the state authorities to answer for the offence
for which he had been extradited.
The case is a peculiar one. The marshal initiated the
prosecution in the state courts, and some weeks thereafter
the indictment was found in the District Court for the same
act on which the charge in the state courts was based. The
offences, indeed, were different, and different penalties were
attached to them. But it is immaterial that Cosgrove might
have been liable to be prosecuted for both, as that is not the
question here, which is whether he could be arrested on process from the District Court before the prior proceeding had
terminated and he bad had opportunity, to return to the
country from which he had been taken. Or, rather, whether
the fact of his going to Canada pending the state proceedings
deprived him of the immunity he possessed by reason of his
extradition so that he could not claim it though the jurisdiction of the state courts had not been exhausted; he had come
back to Michigan; and he had had no opportunity to return
to Canada after final discharge from the state prosecution.
We are of opinion that, under the circumstances, Cosgrove
retained the right to have the offence for which he was extradited disposed of and then to depart in peace, and that this
arrest was in abuse of the high process under which he was
originally brought into the United States, and cannot be
sustained.
Finalorder reversed and cause remanded with a direction
to disoharge petitioner.

