590

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Syllabus.

To assert that because there is a liability arising from the
application of the statute to the bill of lading which would
not result from the bill of lading itself, therefore the statute
must necessarily have been held to impose on the carrier a
liability for an interstate shipment beyond its own line, is
without merit. True, if there had been no statute regulating
the form of the bill of lading, and we were called upon to
construe the instrument, we might consider that th6 limitations referred to in the contract restricted the liability of the
carrier to his own line. This result, however, is rendered
impossible in view of the statute, not because from its provisions a liability is imposed, but because of the failure of the
contract to conform to the requisites of the statute. Such
was the exact condition in the 'Patterson case, suvpra, for it
cannot be doubted that if in that case there had been no
statute requiring the signature of the shipper to a contract
limiting liability, a contract not signed by the shipper containing an exemption would have been efficacious. But, as
the statute required the signature, the contract, unsigned by
the shipper, was ineffective to relieve the carrier from a liability stipulated .against, it is true, but which was inoperative
because not expressed in legal form. Such is, in substance,
the situation here presented.
:Mm.

JusTIcE

HARLAN dissented.

WEST COMPANY v. LEA.
CERTIFICATE FROM

THE

CIRCUIT

COURT

OF

APPEALS

FOR

THE

FOURTH CIRCUIT.
No. 755. Submitted May 1, 1899.-Decided May 22,1899.

As a deed of general assignment for the benefit of creditors is made by the
bankruptcy act alone sufficient to justify an adjudication in involuntary
bankruptcy against the debtor making such deed, without reference to
his solvency at the time of the filing of the petition, the denial of Insolvency by way of defence to a petition based upon the making of a deed
of general assignment is not warranted by the bankruptcy law.

WEST COMPANY v. LEA.
Opinion of the Court.

THE statement of the case will be found in. the opinion of
the court.
Mr.
k W.

Rnery for appellant.
E"

_Mr. Emmett Seaton and _Yr. J. H..Ral.ston for appellees.
MR. JusTi-cE Wn=rrB delivered the opinion of the court._

The facts stated in the certificate of the Circuit Court of
Appeals are substantially as follows:
Lea Brothers & Company and two other firms filed, on
December 18, 1898, a petition in the District Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Virginia, praying
that an alleged debtor, the George M. West Company, a corporation located in Richmond,- Virginia, be adjudicated a
bankrupt, because of the fact that it had, on the date of the
filing of the petition, executed a deed of general assignment,
conveying all its property and assets to Joseph V. Bidgood,
trustee. The George M. West Company pleaded denying that
at the time of the filing of said petition against it the corporation was- insolvent, within the meaning of the bankrupt act,
and averring that its property at a fair valuation was more
than sufficient in amount to pay its debts. The prayer
was that the petition be dismissed. The court rejected this
plea, and adjudicated the West Company to be a bankrupt.
The cause was referred to a referee in bankruptcy, and certain
creditors secured in the deed of assignment, who had instituted
proceedings in the law and equity court of the city of
Richmond, under which that court had taken charge of the
administration of the estate and trust under the deed of assignment, were enjoined from further prosecuting their proceedings, in the state court, under said deed of assignment. From
this decree an appeal was allowed to the Circuit Court, of
On. the hearing of said
Appeals for the Fourth Circuit,
appeal the court, desiring instructions, certified the case to this
court. The certificate recites the facts as above stated, and
submits the following question:

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

"Whether or not a plea that the party against whom the
petition was filed ' was not insolvent as defined in the bankrupt
act at the time of the filing of the petition against him' is a
valid plea in bar to a petition in bankruptcy filed against a
debtor who has made a general deed of assignment for the
benefit of his creditors."
The contentions of the parties are as follows: On behalf of
the debtor it is argued that under the bankrupt act of 1898
two things must concur to authorize an adjudication of involuntary bankruptcy, first, insolvency in fact, and, second, the
commission of an act of bankruptcy. From this proposition
the conclusion is deduced that a debtor against whom a proceeding in involuntary bankruptcy is commenced is entitled
entirely irrespective of the particular act of bankruptcy alleged
to have been .committed, to tender, as a complete bar to the
action, an issue of fact as to the existence of actual insolvency
at the time when the petition for adjudication in involuntary
bankruptcy was filed. On the other-hand, for the creditors it
is argued that whilst solvency is a bar to proceedings in
bankruptcy predicated upon certain acts done by a debtor,
that as to other acts of bankruptcy, among which is included
a general assignment for the benefit of creditors, solvency at
the time of the filing of a petition for adjudication is not a
bar, because the bankrupt act provides that such deed of
general assignment shall, of itself alone, be adequate cause for
an adjudication in involuntary bankruptcy, without reference
to whether the debtor by whom the deed of general assignment was made was in fact solvent or insolvent.
A decision of these conflicting contentions involves a construction of section 3 of the act of July 1, 1898, c. 541, 30
Stat. 546. The full text of the section in question is printed
in the margin.1
'Sc. 3. Acts of Bankruptcy. -a. Acts of bankruptcy by a person shall
consist of his having (1) conveyed, transferred, concealed or removed, or
permitted to be concealed or removed, any part of his property with intent
to hinder, delay or defraud his creditors, or any of them; or (2) transferred, while insolvent, any portion of his property to one or more of his
creditors with intent to prefer such creditors over his other creditors; or

WEST COMPANY v. LEA.
Opinion of the Court.
-It will be observed that the section is divided into several
paragraphs, denominated as a, 6, c, d and e. Paragraph a is
as follows:
(3) suffered or permitted, while insolvent, any creditor to obtain a preference through legal proceedings, and not having, at least five days before a
sale or final disposition of any property affected by such preference, vacated
or discharged such preference; or (4) made a general assignment for the
benefit of his creditors; or (5) admitted in writing his inability to pay his
debts and his willingness to be adjudged a bankrupt on that ground.
b. A petition may be filed against.a person who is insolvent,. and who has
committed an act of bankruptcy within four months after the commission
of such act. Such time shall not expire until four mouths after (1) the
date of the recording or registering of the transfer or assignment when the
act consists in having made a transfer of any of his property with intent to
hinder, delay or defraud his creditors, or for the purpose of giving a,preference as hereinbefore provided, or a general assignment for the benefit
of his creditors, if by law such recording or registering is required or
permitted, or, if it is not, from the date when the beneficiary takes notorious, exclusive or continuous possession of the property unless the
petitioning creditors have received actual notice of such transfer or assignment.
c. It shall be a complete defence to any proceedings in bankruptcy, instituted under the first subdivision of this section, to allege and prove that
the party proceeded against was not insolvent, as defined in this act, at the
time of the filing the petition against him, and if solvency at such date is
proved by the alleged bankirupt, the proceedings shall be dismissed, and,
under said subdivision one, the burden of proving solvency shall be on the
alleged bankrupt.
d. Whenever a person against whom'a petition has been filed, as hereinbefore provided under the second and third subdivisions of this section,
takes issue with and denies the allegation of his insolvency, it shall be
his duty to appear in court on the hearing, with his books, papers and
accounts, and submit to examination, and give testimony as to all matters tending to establish solvency or insolvency, and, in case of his failure
to so attend and submit to examination, the burden of proving his solvency
shall rest upon him.
e. Whenever a petition Is filed by any person for the purpose of having
another adjudged a bankrupt, and an application is made to takb charge of
and hold the property of the alleged bankrupt, or any part of the same,
prior to the adjudication and pending a. hearing on the petition, tie petitioner or applicant shall file in the same court a bond with at least two good
and sufficient sureties, who shall reside within the jurisdiction of said court,
to be approved by the court or a judge therebf, In such sum as the court
shall direct, conditioned for the payment, in case such petition is dismissed,
to the respondent, his or her personal representative, all costs, expenses
VOL. CLXXIV-38

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

"SE C. 3, Acts of Bankruptcy.- a. Acts of bankruptcy by
a person shall consist of his having (1) conveyed, transferred,
concealed or removed, or permitted to be concealed or removed,
any part of his property with intent to hinder, delay or defraud
his crdditors, or any of them; or (2) transferred, while insolvent,
any portion of his property to one or more of his creditors with
intent to prefer such creditors over his other creditors; or (3)
suffered or permitted, while insolvent, any creditor to obtain a
preference through legal proceedings, and not having at least five
days before a sale or final disposition of any property affected
by such preference vacated or discharged such preference; or(4)
made a general assignment for the benefit of his creditors; or
(5) admitted in writing his inability to pay his debts and his
willingness to be adjudged a bankrupt on that ground."
It is patent on the face of this paragraph that it is divided
into five different headings, which are designated numerically
from 1 to 5. Now, the acts of bankruptcy embraced in divisions numbered 2 and 3 clearly cpntemplate not only the
commission of the acts provided against, but also cause the
insolvency of the debtor to be an essential concomitant. On
the contrary, as to the acts embraced in enumerations 1, 4 and
5, there is no express requirement that the acts should have
been committed while insolvent. Considering alone the text
of paragraph a, it results that the non-existence of insolvency,
at the time of the filing of a petition for adjudication in involuntary bankruptcy, because of the acts enumerated in 1, 4 or
5 (which embrace the making of a deed of general assignment)
does not constitute a defence to the petition, unless provision
to that effect be elsewhere found in the statute. This last
consideration we shall hereafter notice.
The result arising from considering the paragraph in quesand damages occasioned by such seizure, taking and detention of the property of the alleged bankrupt.
If such petition be dismissed by the court, or withdrawn by the petitioner, the respondent, or respondents, shall be allowed all costs, counsel
fees, expenses and damages-occasioned by such seizure, taking or detention
of such property. Counsel fees, costs, expenses and damages shaU be fixed
and allowed by the court, and paid by the obligors in such bonds.

WEST COMPANY v. LEA.
Opinion of the Court.

tion would not be different if it be granted arguendo that the
text is ambiguous. For then the cardinal rule requiring that
we look beneath the text for the purpose of ascertaining and
enforcing the intent of the lawmaker would govern. Applying this rule to the enumerations contained in paragraph a, it
follows that the making of a deed of general assignment, referred to in enumeration 4, constitutes in itself an act of bankruptcy, which per ge authorizes an adjudication of involuntary
bankruptcy entirely irrespective of insolvency. This is clearly
demonstrated from considering the present law i-d the light
afforded by previous legislation on the subject.
Under the English bankruptcy statutes (as well that of
1869 as those upon which our earlier acts were modelled), and
our own bankruptcy statutes down to and including the act
of 1867, the making of a deed of general assignment was
deemed to be repugnant to the policy of the bankruptcy laws,
and, as a necessary consequence, constituted an act of bankruptcy per 8e. This is shown by an examination of the decisions bearing upon the point, both English and American.
In Globe Insurance Co. v. Cleveland Insurance Co., 14 N. B.
R. 311; 10 Fed. Cas. 488, the subject was ably reviewed and
the authorities are there copiously collected. The decision in
that case was expressly relied upon in In, re Beisentha, 14
Blatchford, 146, where it was held, that a voluntary assignment, without preferences, valid under the laws of the State
of New York, was void as against an assignee in bankruptcy,
and this latter case was approvingly referred to in Reed v.
.7tcbityre,98 U. S. 513. So, also, in Boese v. King, 108 U. S.
379, 385, it was held, citing (p. 387) Reed v. Mntyre, that
whatever might be the effect of a deed of general assignment
for the benefit of creditors, when considered apart from the
bankrupt act, such a deed was repugnant to the object of a
bankruptcy statute, and therefore was in and of itself alone
an act of bankruptcy. The foregoing decisions related to
deeds of general assignment made during the operation of the
bankrupt act of 1867, March 2, 1867, c. 176, 14 Stat. 536, or
the amendments thereto of June 22, 1874, c. 390, and July
26, 1876, c. 234, 18 Stat. 180; 19 Stat. 102. Neither, how.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

ever, the. act of 1867, nor the amendments to it, contained an
express provision that a deed of general assignment should be
a conclusive act of bankruptcy. Such consequence was held
to arise, from a deed of that description, as a legal result, of

the clause, in the act of 1867, forbidding assignments with
"intent to delay, defraud or hinder" creditors and from the
provision avoiding certain acts done to delay, defeat or hinder
the execution of the act. (Rev. Stat. 5021, par. 4, 7.) Now,
when it is considered that the present law, although it only
retained some of the provisions of the act of 1867, contains an
express declaration that a deed of general assignment shall
authorize the involuntary bankruptcy of the debtor making
such a deed, all doubt as to the scope and intent of the law is
removed. The conclusive result of a deed of general assignment under all our previous bankruptcy acts, as well as under
the English bankrupt laws, and the significant import of the
incorporation of the previous rule, by an express statement, in
the present statute have been lucidly expounded by Addison
Brown, J. i-n Te Gutwillig, 90 Fed. Rep. 475, 478.
But it is argued that whatever may have been the rule in
previous bankruptcy statutes, the present act, in other than
the particular provision just considered, manifests a clear
intention to depart from the previous rule, and hence makes
insolvency an essential prerequisite in every case. To maintain this proposition reliance is placed upon paragraph c of
section 3, which reads as follows:
"c. It shall be a complete defence to any proceedings in
bankruptcy instituted under the first subdivision of this seetion to allege and prove that the party proceeded against
was not insolvent as defined in this act at the time of the
filing the petition against him, and if solvency at such date is
proved by the alleged bankrupt the proceedings shall be dismissed, and, under said subdivision one, the burden of proving solvency shall be on the alleged bankrupt."
The argument is that the words "under the first subdivision of this section" refer to all the provisions of paragraph a, because that paragraph, as a whole, is the first part
of the section, separately divided, and although designated by

WEST COMPANY v. LEA.
Opinion of the Court.

the letter a, it is nevertheless to be considered, as a whole, as
subdivision 1. But whether the words "first subdivision of
this section," if considered intrinsically and apart from the
context of the act, would be held to refer to paragraph a as
an entirety or only to the first subdivision of that paragraph,
need not be considered. We are concerned only with the
meaning of the words as used in the law we are interpreting.
Now, the context makes it plain that the words relied on
were only intended to relate to the first numerical subdivision
of paragraph a. Thus, in the last sentence of phragraph c
the matter intended to be referred to by the words "first
subdivision of this section," used in the prior sentences, is
additionally designated as follows: "and under said subdivision -one," etc., language which cannot possibly be in
reason construed as referring to the whole of paragraph a,
but only to subdivision 1 thereof.
This is besides more abundantly shown by paragraph d,
which provides as follows:
"d..

Whenever a person against whom a petition has been

filed as hereinbefore provided under the second and third subdivisions of this section takes issue with and denies the allegations of his insolvency, it shall be his duty to appear in
court on the hearing with his books, papers and accounts and
submit to an examination, and give testimony as to all matters tending to establish solvency or insolvency, and in case
of his failure to so attend and submit to examination the burden of proving his solvency shall rest upon him."
This manifestly only refers to enumerations 2 and 3 found
in paragraph a, which, it will be remembered, make it essential that the acts of bankruptcy recited should have been
committed by the debtor while insolvent. Indeed, if the contention advanced were followed, it would render section 3 in
many respects meaningless. Thus, if it were to be held that
the words "first subdivision of this section," used in paragraph c, referred to the first division of the section- that is,
to paragraph a as a whole-it would follow that the words
"second and third subdivisions of this section," used in paragraph , would relate to the second and third divisions of

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

the section- that is, to paragraphs b and c. But there is
niothing in these latter paragraphs to which the reference in
Taragraph d could possibly apply, and therefore, under the
construction asserted, paragraph d would have no significance
whatever. To adopt the reasoning referred to would compel
to a further untenable conclusion. If the reference in paragraph o to the "first subdivision of this section" relates to
paragraph a in its entirety, then all the provisions in paragraph a would be governed by the rule laid down in paragraph c. The rule, however, laid down in that paragraph
would be then in irreconcilable conflict with the provisions of
paragraph d, and it would be impossible to construe the statute
harmoniously without eliminating some of its provisions.
Despite the- plain meaning of the statute as shown* by
the foregoing considerations, it is urged that the following
provision contained in paragraph b of section 3 operates to
rend*er any and all acts of bankruptcy insufficient, as the basis
for proceedings in involuntary bankruptcy, unless it be proven
that at the time .the petition was'filed the alleged bankrupt
was insolvent. The provision is as follows: "A petition may
be filed against a person who is insolvent and who has committed an act of bankruptcy within four months after the
commission of such act." Necessarily if this claim is sound,
the burden in all cases would be upon the petitioning creditors
to allege and prove such insolvency. The contention, however, is clearly rebutted by the terms of paragraph q, which
provides as to one of the classes of acts of bankruptcy, enumerated in paragraph a, that the burden should be on the
debtor to allege and prove his solvency. So, also, paragraph
d, conforming in this respect to the requirements of paragraph a, contemplates an issue as to the second and third
classes of acts of bankruptcy, merely with respect to the insolvency of the debtor at the time of the commimion of the ad
of bankruptcy. Further, a petition in a proceeding in involuntary bankruptcy is defined in section 1 of the act of 1898,
enumeration 20, to mean "A Paper filed . . . by creditors
alleging the commision of an act of bankuntoy by a debtor
therein named."

WEST COMPANT

v. LEA.

Opinion of the Court.

It follows that the mere statement in the statute; by way of
recital, that a petition may be filed "against a person who is
insolvent and who has committed an act of bankruptcy," was
not designed io superadd a further requirement to those
contained in paragraph a of section 3, as to what should constitute acts of bankruptcy. This reasoning also answers the
argument based on the fact that the rules in bankruptcy
promulgated by this court provide in general terms for an
allegation of insolvency in the petition and a denial of such
allegation in the answer. These rules were but intended to
execute the act, and not to add to its provisions by making
that which the statute treats in some cases as immaterial a
material fact in every case. Therefore, though the rules and
forms in bankruptcy provide for an issue as to solvency in
cases of involuntary bankruptcy, where by the statute such
issue becomes irrelevant, because the particular act relied -on,
in a given case, conclusively imports a right to the adjudication in bankruptcy if the act be established, the allegation of
insolvency in the petition becomes superfluous, or if made need
not be traversed.
Our conclusion, then, is that, as a deed of general assignment for the benefit of creditorsis made by the bankrmptoy
act alone sufficient to justify an adjudication in inooluntary bankruptcy against the debtor making such deed,
without reference to his solvency at the'time of the filing
of the petition, the denial of insolvency by way of defence
to a petition based upon the making of a deed of general
assignment, is not warrantedby the bankrzptcy law; and,
therefore, that the question certified must be answered in
the negative; and it is so ordered.

