OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

FIRST NATIONAL BANK

OF LOUISVILLE

,.

LOUISVILLE.
SAME .v. STONE.
APPEALS FROM -THE CIRCUIT COURT OF

THE UNITED

STATES FOR

THE DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.
Nos. 8, 634. Argued February 28, March 2, 1899.-

Decided May 15, 1899.

The decision of the court below that taxes imposed upon the franchise or
Intangible property of a national bank may be -regarded as the equivalent
of a tax on the shares of stock in the names of the shareholders, and
hence did not violate the act of Congress in that respect, was erroneous

and is reversed.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

Xr. Eenry L. Stone for Louisville.M'. Alexander Pope Humphrey, Au'. Frank Chinn, Mr.
,JamesP. Helm and Mr. JohnTW. Rodman for the banks.
Mat. JUSTICE

WHITE delivered the opinion. of the court.

In these two cases the appellant filed its bills to enjoin the
assessment and collection of certain taxes. The grounds
upon which the prayer for relief in each case was rested were
substantially as follows:
First. That the taxes in question were levied upon the franchise and property of the bank, and not upon the shares of
stock in the names of the shareholders, and were therefore
illegal; second, that the taxes were discriminatory, because,
as a consequence of the exemption of certain state banks from
taxation by special contract, the property of the bank was
taxed at a higher rate than other moneyed capital, in violation
of the act of Congress; and, third, that the takes were illegal,
because not in conformity to the state constitution and certain provisions of the state laws.
The court below decided that, although the taxes were im-

LOUS VILLE v. BANK OF LOUISVILLE.

430

Syllabus.

posed or contemplated to-be assessed on the franchise or intangible property of the bank, nevertheless they were the

equivalent of a tax on the shares of stock in the names of the
shareholders, and hence did not violate the act of Congress.
It moreover held that the remaining grounds were without
merit. 88 Fed. Rep. 409.
The law under which the taxes in question were levied is the
same one which was considered in Owensboro National Bank,
Plaintiff in Error,v. The City of Owensboro and A. f.C.
Simmons, 173 U. S. 664. The theory of equivalency upon
which the court below decreed the taxes to be legal was in
that case fully examined, and held to be unsound.
It follows that the decrees below rendered in these cases
were erroneous. It is therefore ordered that said decrees be
Reversed, and the cases remanded to the lower court with
directions for such further proceedings as may be in
confo2!mity,with this opinion.
-

LOUISVILLE v. BANK OF LOUISVILLE.
STONE, Auditor, v. SAME.
APPEAW.L

FROM THE CERoUIT COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.
Nos. 859, 858. Argued February 28, March 2, 1899. -Decided

May 15,1899.

Stone v. Bank of Commerce, 174 U. S. 412, affirmed and applied to the point
that the agreement of the commissioners of the sinking fund of Louisville and the attorney of the city with certain banks, trust companies,
etc., including the Bank of Louisville, that the rights of those institutions should abide the result of test suits to be brought, was dehors the
power of the commissioners of the sinking fund and the city attorney,
and that the decree in the test suit by question did not constitute res
judicata as to those not actually parties to the record.
Citizens' Savings Bank of Owensboro v. Owensboro, 173 U. S.686, also affirmed
and applied.
On questions of exemption from taxation or limitations on the taxing power,
asserted to arise from statutory contracts, doubts arising must be resolved
against the claim of exemption.

