OCTOBER TERIM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

NELSON v. MOLONEY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORX.
NTo.767.

Submitted April 17, 1899.-Decided May 1,1699.

O'Brien being arrested in the State of New York for larceny, Nelson induced Moloney to join him in becoming O'Brien's bondsman, and gave
Moloney a mortgage on his (Nelson's) real estate in New York to the
amount of $10,000, to indemnify him. O'Brien having defaulted in his
appearance for trial, Moloney was sued upon the bond, and a judgment
was recovered against him, which was wholly paid by him. Before paying it he brought suit against Nelson to recover the amount for which
he was so liable, and obtained a judgment in his favor in the trial court,
which was reversed in the courts above on the ground that, as, at that
time he had paid nothing on the forfeiture, no recovery could be had.
In appealing from the trial court in that case he entered into the usual
stipulation that, if the judgment appealed from should be affirmed, judgment absolute might be rendered against him. He then brought this suit
to foreclose the mortgage. Meanwhile Nelson had transferred the property mortgaged to one Adams. The defendant contended that the stipulation given by the plaintiff on the appeal to that court in the prior action
was a bar to the recovery in this action; and that the bond and mortgage having been given to indemnify bail in a criminal case, they were
void because contrary to public policy. But the Court of Appeals held:
(1) That the contention that the stipulation operated to prevent a recovery was without support in authority or reason; and (2) That it was not
a part of the public policy of the State of New York to insist upon personal liability of sureties, and forbid bail to become indemnified. Held:
(1) That these conclusions involved no Federal question;
(2) That under the circumstances described In the opinion of the court,
the proceedings in relation to the removal of the cause afforded
no ground for the issue of the writ of error;
(3) That, following MissouriPacific Railway v. Fitzgerald,160 U. S. 556,
the state court having proceeded to final judgment in this case, its
action is not reviewable on writ of error to such judgment.

THis was a suit brought by Dennis Moloney against Samuel
Nelson, Albert J. Adams and others, in the Supreme Court of
New York, city and county of New York, to foreclose a mortgage on real estate given Moloney by Nelson to secure a bond
for ten thousand dollars in indemnification of Moloney against

NELSON v. MOLONEY.

165 "

Statement of the Case.

loss by reason of becoming bail for one O'Brien. The judge
before whom the case was tried found the facts as follows:
"I do find that in the month of October, 1891, one Thomas
O'Brien was under arrest and confined in Albany County jail,
charged with the crime of grand larceny in the first degree,
and that on the 16th day of October, 1891, he was discharged
from custody on giving a certain bail bond or recognizance in
the sum of ten thousand dollars executed by himself, the defendant, Samuel Nelson, and the plaintiff, Dennis Moloney,
conditioned that the said Thomas O'Brien should appear and
answer the said charge in whatever court it may be prosecuted.
"That the defendant, Samuel Nelson, in order to induce the
plaintiff to enter into said recognizance, agreed to indemnify
him against liability thereunder, and the plaintiff relying upon
said agreement and not otherwise entered into and executed
the same as aforesaid and the said defendant, Samuel Nelson,
immediately thereafter and in fulfilment of said agreement
did execute and deliver to the plaintiff, Dennis Moloney, the
bond and mortgage set up in the complaint in this action, which
said mortgage was thereafter and on the 17th day of October,
1891, duly recorded in the office of the register of the city and
cohinty of New York.
"That thereafter and on the 2d day of November, 1891, the
said Thomas O'Brien was called upon in the county court of
Albany County to appear and answer the indictment above
referred to, but did not appear and the bail bond or recognizance executed by said O'Brien, the plaintiff Dennis Moloney,
and the defendant -Samuel Nelson, was, on said 2d day of
November, 1891, declared forfeited.
"That thereafter and before the commencement of this action, an action was brought by the people of the State of New
York against the plaintiff, Dennis Moloney, and the defendant,
Samuel Nelson, to recover upon said forfeited bail bond or recognizance, and on the 8th day of December, 1891, judgment
in said action was duly entered in favor of the people of the
State of New York against the defendant, Samuel Nelson, and
the plaintiff, Dennis Moloney, for the sum of ten thousand and
twenty-seven MB ($10,027.13) dollars, and the judgment roll

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Counsel f6r the Motions.

duly filed in the'office of the clerk of Albany County on said
date.
" That thereafter executions upon said last-mentioned judgment were duly issued to the sheriff of Albany County, and
the plaintiff's property was sold under said execution, and the
entire amount of said judgment paid wholly by the plaintiff.
"That no part of the sum of ten thousand dollars secured
by said bond and mortgage has been paid to the plaintiff and
defendants agreed and consented on the trial of this action
that interest upon said sum of ten thousand dollars should be
computed from the 5th day of June, 1893."
And thereupon judgment of foreclosure and sale for the
amount due and for payment of any deficiency, was entered.
Before this suit was commenced Moloney had brought a
similar suit against Nelson and recovered judgment, which
was reversed by the general term of the Supreme Court on
the ground that it had been prematurely brought, because
Mtoloney had not then paid anything on account of the judgment entered on the forfeiture of the criminal recognizance.
Moloney v. J.elson, 70 Hun, 202.
From that judgment
Moloney prosecuted an appeal to the Court of Appeals,
entering into the usual stipulation that if the judgment
appealed from was affirmed, judgment absolute might be
rendered against him. The judgment was affirmed and judgment absolute entered. Moloney v. -Nelson,144 N. Y. 182.
After that this action was commenced, but in the meantime
Nelson had transferred the property mortgaged to defendant
Adams.
From the judgment of the trial court in this suit Nelson
alone appealed to the Appellate Division of the Supreme
Court in the First Department, by which it was affirmed.
Nelson then carried the cause to the Court of Appeals, and
the judgment of affirmance was affirmed. Moloney v. Nelson,
158 N. Y. 351. The record having been remitted to the Supreme Court, this writ of error was allowed, and motions to
dismiss or affirm submitted.
.Mr.Abram J. Ros, for the motions.

NELSON v. MOLONEY.
Opinion of the Court.

-Y. William B. Newm

and Mr. Alb~rt J. Adams, J.,

opposing.
Mm. CHEF JUSTICE FuLLEB, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
It is stated in the-opinion of the Court of Appeals, by Chief
Judge Parker, that the defences interposed by Nelson "upon
the trial, and relied upon here, are: (1) The stipulation given
by the plaintiff on the appeal to this court in a prior action
brought to foreclose the mortgage is a bar to the recovery in
this action. (2) The bond and. mortgage having been given
to inddmnify bail in a criminal case, they are void, because
contrary to public policy."
The Court of Appeals ruled that the contention that the
stipulation given on appeal to that court operated to prevent
a recovery, was "without support in authority or reason;"
and as to the second ground relied upon to defeat the action,
that it was not a part of the public policy of the State of
New York to insist upon personal liability of sureties and forbid bail to become indemnified. These conclusions involved no
Federal question, nor can we find on this record that any title,
right, privilege or immunity under the Constitution or the"
laws of the United States was specially set up or claimed in
the state courts, and that the decision of the highest court of
the State in which a decision could be had was against any
title, right, privilege or immunity so set up or claimed. But
it is said'that Nelson filed his petition and bond for' the
removal of the cause from the Supreme Court of the State of
New York to the United States Circuit Court for the Southern District of New York on the ground that, at the time of
the commencement of the action, he was a citizen of New
Jersey and Moloney was a citizen of the State of New York,
and that the action taken thereon raised a Federal question.
It appeared that Moloney, and Adams, the holder of the
record title to the property mortgaged, were both citizens of
the State of New York, and it is not claimed that the state
court denied the petition, but, on the contrary, conceded that

OCTOBER TERMI, 1898.
Syllabus.

the record was transmitted to the Circuit Court, and that that
court, on motion, remanded the cause to the state court because
there was no separable controversy wholly between citizens of
different States. This being so, the proceedings in relation to
the removal of the cause afforded no ground for the issue of
the writ of error.
In Xissouri Pacifc Railway v. Fitzgerald, 160 U. S. 556,
582, we held that: "If the Circuit Court remands a cause and
the state court thereupon proceeds to final judgment, the ac.tion of the Circuit Court is not reviewable on writ of error to
such judgment. A state court cannot be held to have decided
against a Federal right, when it is the Circuit Court, and not
the state court, which has denied its possession.

.

.

As

under the statute a remanding order of the Circuit Court is
not reviewable by this court on appeal or writ of error from
or to that court, so it would seem to follow that it cannot be
reviewed on writ of error to a state court, the prohibition
being that 'no appeal or writ of error from the decision of a
Circuit Court remanding such cause shall be allowed.' And
it is entirely clear that a writ of error cannot be maintained
under section 709 in respect of such an order where the state
court has rendered n6 decision against a Federal right but
simply accepted the conclusion of the Circuit Court."
Writ of error dismissed.

"McAIN v. DES MOINES.
APPEAL

FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES -FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF IOWA.
No. 238. -Submitted April 5, 1699. -Decided

May 1, 1599.

It appearing on the face of the bill in this case that all the parties to this
suit are citizens of Iowa, and the court being of opinion that the allegation in the bill that this is a controversy and a suit of a civil nature arising under the Constitution and laws .of the United States is not only not
supported by the facts appearing In the bill, but is so palpably unfounded

