WADE v. TRAVIS COtNTY.
Statement of the Case.

facture of which was stopped, indicate a bend in the front bar
of the frame to form the recess for the insertion of the hand.
The decree of the court below must be
.Reversed, and the case remanded to the Court of A eal8
with directions to order the bill to be dismissed.

WADE v. TR/AVIS COUNTY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF

APPEALS FOOR THE FIFTH

CIRCUIT.
No. 267.

Argued April 26, 1899: -Decided

May 15, 1899.

MlitchelZ County v. Bank of .Paducah, 91 Texas, 361; which was an action
upon interest coupons on bonds issued by the county for the purpose
of building a court house and jail,-and for constructing and purchasing
bridges, in which it was held that as the constitution and laws of Texas
authorizing the creation of a' debt for such purposes require that provision should be made for ,the interest and for a sinking fund for the
redemption of the debt, it was the duty of the court, in an action brought
by a bona fide holder of bonds issued under the law to so construe it as
to make them valid and" give effect to them, is followed by this court,
even if it should be found to differ from previous decisions of the
Supreme Court of Texas, in force when the decision of the court below
in this case was made.

THIS was an action brought in the. Circuit Court for the
Western District of Texas by the plaintiff Wade, who is a
citizen of the State of Illinois, against the county of Travis,
to recover upon certain interest coupons detached from fortyseven bonds issued by the defendant for the purpose of
builuing an iron bridge across the Colorado River.
The petitioner set forth that in July, 1888, the defendant,
being authorized so to do, entered into a contract with the
King Iron Bridge Manufacturing Company of Cleveland, Ohio,
for the construction of a bridge for public use over the Colorado River, the company agreeing to complete the same by
November 15, 1888, in consideration of which the defendant

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

agreed to pay the sum of $4:7,000 in six per cent bonds,
payable in twenty years after date.
That, prior to the making of such contract, to wit, February
23, 1888, the defendant, acting through its commissioners'
court, levied for the year 1888 and subsequent years, until
otherwise ordered, an annual ad valorem tax of twenty cents
for general purposes, and an annual ad valorem tax of fifteen
cents for road and bridge purposes, on each one huudred
dollars' worth of taxable property in such county; that on
February 13, 1889, the commissioners' court of the county
levied for the year 1889 an ad valorem.tax of fifteen cents on
each one hundred dollars' worth of property for road and
bridge purposes, and an ad valorem tax of five cents to create
a sinking fund for bridge bonds, and to pay the interest on
such bonds; that the defendant delivered to the bridge company upon its contract for erecting the bridge five bonds on
December 6, 1888, ten bonds on December 22, 1888, ten bonds
on February 12, 1889, and the remaining twenty-two of such
bonds on July 3, 1889, such bonds being signed by the county
judge, countersigned by the county clerk and registered by
the county treasurer; that the several'levies in question had
not been appropriated for any other purpose by the county,
or, at least, a sufficient portion of them remained unappropriated to pay the interest and sinking fund upon such bonds,
and that it was the intention of the commissioners' court to.
use these levies with a view of providing an annual fund
sufficient to pay the interest, and to provide the sinking fund
required by law. The petition further averred that plaintiff
purchased the coupons for a good and valuable consideration
in open market, and that he is the legal owner and holder of
the same; that on January 16, 1896, he presented such coupons
to the county treasurer and demanded payment thereof, which
was refused.
The county demurred to the petition upon six different
grounds, the first and material one of which was that the
petition failed to allege that "at the time the debt was created for which the bonds were issued, upon the coupons of
which this suit is brought, any provision was made for the

WADE v. TRAVIS COUNTY.
Opinion of the Court.

interest, and at least two per cent sinking fund upon such
bonds."
The Circuit Court was of opinion that, at the date of the
execution of the contract for erecting the bridge, the commissioners' court should have made a distinct and specific
provision for the interest upon such bonds and for a sinking
fund, and thereupon sustained the demurrer and dismissed the
cause. 72 Fed. Rep. 985.
The plaintiff appealed to the Circuit Court of Appeals, which
affirmed the judgment of the Circuit Court. 52 U. S. App.
395. Upon. plaintiff's petition a writ of certiorari was subsequently allowed by this court.
-Mr. Jose~p Paxton Blair .and Xr. Frank 1Y. Haoktt for
Wade.
Mr. ClarenceE. Xillerfor Travis County.
was on his brief.

f. FranzFisat

M . JusTicE BRoWw, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the couit.

This case involves the validity of certain bonds issued by
the county of Travis in payment to the King Iron Bridge
Manufacturing Compan.-Y for. the construction of a bridge over
the Colorado River; and, incidentally, the weight to be given
to alleged conflicting decisions oft the Supreme Court of Texas
as to the validity of such bonds.
As bearing upon this question, the following sections of
Article XI of the constitution of Texas, upon the subject of
"Municipal Corporations," are pertinent:
"Sxc. 2. The construction of jails, court houses and bridges,
and the establishment of county poor houses and farms, and the
laying out, construction and repairing of county roads, shall be
provided for by general laws."
"SEa. '7. All counties and cities bordering on the coast of
the Gulf of Mexico are hereby authorized, upon a vote of twothirds of the taxpayers therein, (to be ascertained as may be

502

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

provided by law,) to levy and collect such tax for construction
of sea walls, breakwaters or sanitary purposes, as may be authorized by law, and may create a debt for such works and
issue bonds in evidence thereof. But no debt for any purpose
shall ever be incurred in any manner by any city or county
unless provision is made, at the time of creating the same, for
levying and collecting a sufficient tax to pay the interest
thereon and to provide at least two per cent as a sinking
fund; and the condemnation of the right of way for the erection of such works shall be fully provided for."
In apparent compliance with the sections above quoted, the
legislature in 1887 enacted the following law, c. 141, § 1 :
"SEC. 1. That the county commissioners' court of the several
counties of this State are hereby authorized and empowered
to issue bonds of said county, with interest coupons attached,
in such amounts as may be necessary, for the purpose of buying or constructing bridges for public uses within such county,
said bonds to run not exceeding twenty years, and bearing
interest at any rate not to exceed eight per cent per annum.
"SEc.°2. The commissioners' court shall levy an annual ad
valorem tax, not to exceed fifteen cents on the one hundred
dollars' valuation, sufficient to pay the interest on and create
a sinking fund for the redemption of said bonds. The sinking
fund herein provided for shall not be less than four per cent
on the full sum for which the bonds are issued."
It is admitted that no provision was made on July 3, 1888,
"at the time of creating" the debt, for levying and collecting
a sufficient tax to pay the interest thereon, and two per cent
for a sinking fund, as required by the second clause of section
seven, if said clause be applicable to a debt incurred for building bridges. It was alleged in the petition, however, that in
the February preceding the commissioners' court ordered an
ad valorem tax of twenty cents for general purposes, and an
annual ad valorem tax of fifteen cents for road and bridge
purposes; and it also appeared that in the following February
(1889) it ordered an annualad valorem tax of twenty-five cents
for general purposes; fifteen cents for road and bridge purposes; court-house and jail tax of five cents, and an ad valorem

WADE v. TRAVIS COUNTY.
Opinion of the Couit.

tax of five cents to create a sinking fund for bridge bonds to
pay the interest on said bonds.
Plaintiff insisted in the court below that the language of
the last clause of section seven, requiring a provision to be
made for the levying and collection of a tax to pay the interest and to provide a sinking fund, must be read in connection
with the preceding clause of -the section, and, taking the two
together, that the last clause must be held to apply only to
counties bordering on the Gulf of Mexico. Both the Circuit
Court and the Court of Appeals, however, held that the last
clause contained a separate and independent provision, and
was applicable to the contract made by the county for the
building of this bridge, and that, the petition of the plaintiff
failing to show compliance with it, the contract was void and
the bonds issued without authority of law. Both courts relied
upon the construction given by the Supreme Court of Texas
in numerous cases to this section of the constitution.
It is important in this connection to note that the opinion
of the Circuit Court was pronounced on March 13, 1896, and
that of the Court of Appeals on June 16, 1897. Since that
time, it is asserted that the Supreme Court of Texas has taken
a somewhat different view of the law, and an examination of
these several decisions becomes important. In the earliest of
them, Terrell v. Dessaint, 71 Texas, 770, 773, (1888,) which
was an action on a promissory note given by the city in payment for material for water works supplies, it was squarely
held that the last clause of section seven, above quoted, must
be held to apply to all cities alike, and that the clause contained no word or words which restricted its application to
the cities previously mentioned in the same section. "The
language is general and unqualified," -said the court, "and we
find nothing in the context to indicate that the framers of the
.constitution did not mean precisely what it said; that is, that
no city shall create any debt without providing, by taxation,
for the payment of the sinking fund and interest." It was
also held that a-debt of $1500 for materials to extend its water
works was within the clause ifi question, and that as the current expenses proper of the city exceeded its resources for

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

general purposes, and no appropriation was made for the payment of this debt, there could be no recovery.
In Bassett v. El Paso, 88 Texas, 168, (1895) it was held
that the language and purpose of the constitution were satisfied by an order for the annual collection by taxation of a
"sufficient sum to pay the interest thereon and create a sinking
fund," etc., although it did not fix the rate or per cent of taxation for each year by which the sum was to be collected, but
left the fixing of such rate for each successive year to the
commissioners' court or the city council. It was contended
that the ordinance, which provided for the issue of water
works bonds, was void, because it did not levy a tax, but delegated to the assessing and collecting officers the power to
make such levy from year to year. But it was said that "to
so construe these provisions as to require, at the time the debt
is created, the levy of a fixed tax to be collected through a
long series of years, without reference to the unequal ' sums'
that would in all probability be realized therefrom, instead of
the collection annually of a certain ' sufficient sum' to pay the
annual interest and create the sinking fund required by law;
would be doing violence to the language used, and authorize,
in cases where values rapidly increase, the extortion from the
taxpayers of large amounts of money in excess of the amount
necessary to satisfy the interest and principal of the bonds,
and this in turn would invite municipal corruption and
extravagance."
In _Me. eal v. Waco, 89 Texas, 83, (1895) plaintiff sued the
city of Waco on a contract for building cisterns for fire protection, to recover the contract price for one and damages for
refusing to allow him to bomplete the others. The petition
failed to show a provision for taxes to pay interest and a sinking fund, or an existing fund for the payment; nor did the
contract show facts from which the court could say that it was
an item of ordinary expenditure. It was held that a general demurrer to the petition should have been sustained, and it was
also held that the word "debt" included every pecuniary obligation imposed by contract outside of the current expenditures
for the year. To same effect is -Howardv. Smith, 91 Texas, 8.

WADE v.' TRAVIS COUNTY.
Opinion of the Court.

Such was the construction placed by the Supreme Court of
Texas upon the constitutional provision at the time when the
case under consideration was decided by the courts below. It
was held by the Circuit Court that the pounty commissioners'
court should have made provision at the time the contract was
executed, July 3, 1888, by levy of a tax or otherwise for a
sinking fund, and the interest on the bonds issued for the
erection of the bridge; that the levy made by the commisSioners' court in February, 1888, could not be held applicable
to the bonds in controversy, for the manifest reason that the
contract foi the erection of the bridge was not then in exist-ence nor even in the contemplation of the parties, so far as the
allegations of the petition disclosed; that the general levy
made in February, 1889, could not be held applicable to the
bonds of the bridge company for two reasons: first, because it
was made some six months after the execution: of the contract;
and, second, because the order of the commissioners' court,
authorizing the levy, made no reference whatever to the bonds
in controversy nor to the contract between the county and
the bridge company. The Circuit Court of Appeals came
practically to the same conclusion.
Since these cases were decided, however, the Supreme Court
of Texas has put a construction upon the constitution which
fully supports the position of the plaintiff in this case. In
Mitchell County v. Bank of Paducah,91 Texas, 361, decided
in January, 1898, the action was upon interest coupons attached
to bonds issued by the county for the purpose of building a
court house and jail, and upon others for constructing and purchasing bridges. An act had been passed in 1881 with reference to the creation of court house debts similar to the act
subsequently passed in 1887 r2specting bridge bonds, a copy
of which is given above. The same defence was made - that
at the time of the creation of the debts the county made no
provision for levying and collecting a sufficient tax to pay the
interest and sinking fund, although for the year 1881 the court
levied a court house and jail tax of twenty-five cents on the
one thundred dollars, repeated during subsequent years, and increased to fifty cents; and every year after the issue of the

OCTOBERh TERM i898.
Opinion of the Court.

bonds for bridge purposes the court levied fifteen cents on the
one hundred dollars as a tax for road and bridge purposes. It
was held, quoting Bassett v. D Paso,88 Texas, 168, 1'75, that
it was unnecessary to ascertain the rate per cent required to
be levied in order to raise the proper sum and to actually levy
that rate of tax at the time; that if the laws of 1881 and 1887
had never been passed, the county would have had no authority under the constitution to contract the debts represented
by the bonds, nor to levy a tax for the payment of the interest
and sinking fund on such debts. The power to do so could be
derived from the legislature only. "We understand," said the
court, "that the provision required by the constitution means
such fixed and definite arrangements for the levying and collecting of such tax as would become a legal right in favor of
the bondholders of the bonds issued thereon, or in favor of any
person to whom such debt might be payable. It is not sufficient that the muuicipal authorities should by the law be
authorized to levy and collect a tax sufficient to produce a
sinking fund greater than two per cent, but to comply with
the constitution the law must itself provide for a sinking fund
not less than two per cent, or require of the municipal authorities to levy and collect a tax sufficient to produce the minimum prescribed by the constitution." It was held that the
laws of 1881 and 1887, having been enacted for the purpose of
putting into force the constitutional provisions, it was the duty
of the courts to so construe the laws as to make them valid
and give effect to 'them. The court came to the conclusion
that these laws did make such provision for the levying and
collecting of a tax as was required by the constitution, and
that, in case the court had refused to levy the tax after the
bonds were issued and sold, the bondholders would have been
entitled to a mandamus to compel the commissioners' court to
levy such tax as purely a ministerial duty. The bonds, with
certain immaterial exceptions, were held to be valid obligations' of the county.
It is'quite evident that if this case hadbeen decided and
called to the attention of the courts below, the validity of the
bonds involved in this action would have been sustained, and

WADE v. TRAYIS COUNTY.
Opinion of the Court.

the main question involved in this case is whether we shall
gi\ve effect to this decision of the Supreme Court of Texas,
pronounced since the case under consideration was decided in
the courts below, and giving, as is claimed at least, a somewhat
different construction to the constitution of the State
We do not ourselves perceive any such inconsistency between
the case of Mitohell County v. Bank of Paducak, and the
earlier cases, as justifies the county, in the case under consideration, in claiming that the Supreme Court of Texas had
overruled the settled law of the State and set in motion a new
departure. No such inconsistency is indicated in the opinion
in the -litcdell County case; so far as the prior cases are cited

at all they are cited with approval, and there is certainly
nothing to indicate that the court intended to-overrule them.
That court had not changed in its personnel since the prior
judgments, except the first, were pronounced, and it is not
probable that the judges would have changed their views
without some reference to such change. Indeed, but one of
the earlier cases was cited in the .fitliell County case, (Bassett v. M1 Paso, 88 Texas, 168,) and that supports rather than
conflicts with the opinion. As we read them, they merely
decided that some provision for payment must be made. In
the 7ifitcheM County case the question was for fhe first time
presented whether the laws of 1881 and 1887 were constitutional, and whether action taken under these laws was an
adequate compliance with the requirement that provision
should be made "at the time of creating" the debt for a
sufficient tax to pay the interest and to provide a two per
cent sinking fund. It was held that they were. This overruled nothing, because the question had never before been
decided, and the point was not made. in the courts below in
this ease. We are simply called upon, then, to determine what
is the law of Texas upon the subject, since, under Revised
Statutes, section 721, the "laws of the several States

.

shall be regarded as rules of decision in trials at common
in the courts of the United States." While if this case
been brought before this court befdre the decision in
kfitchell County case, we might have taken the view that

.

.

law
had
the
was

-

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

taken by the courts below, treating the question as one hitherto unsettled in that State, we find ourselves relieved of any
embarrassment by the decision in the Mitchell County case,
which manifestly applies to this case and requires a reversal
of their judgment.
But assuming that the later case was intended to overrule
the prior ones, and to lay down a different rule upon the subject, our conclusion would not be different. In determining
what the laws of the several States are, which will be regarded
as rules of- decision, we are bound to look, not only at their
constitutions and statutes, but at the decisions of their highest
courts giving construction to them. Polk's Lessee v. Wendal,
9 Cranch, 87; Luther v. Borden, 7 How. 1, 40 ;- .Sesmith v.
Sheldon, 7 How. 812; Jefferson Branch Bank v. Skelly, 1
Black, 436; Leflngwell v. Warren, 2 Black, 599; Christy v.
Pridgeon,4 Wall, 196; Post v. Suyervisors, 105 U. S. 667;
Bucher v. Cheshire Railroad Co., 125 U. S. 555.
If there be any inconsistency in the opinions of these courts,
the general rule is that we follow the latest settled adjudications in preference to the earlier ones. The case of United
States v. .Morrison,4 Pet. 124, seems to be directly in point.

The United States recovered judgment against Morrison,
upon which a ft. f e. was .issued, goods taken in execution and restored to the debtor under a forthcoming bond.
This bond having been forfeited, an execution was awarded
thereon by the udgment of the Distriat Court, rendered
April, 1822, which it was asserted created a lien upon the
lands, and overreached certain conveyances under which the
defendants claimed, dated February and March, 1823. The
Circuit Court was of opinion that the lien did not overreach these conveyances. But the Court of Appeals of Virginia having subsequently decided that the lien of a judgment
continued pending proceedings on a writ of ft. fa., this court
adopted this subsequent construction by such court, and reversed the decree of the Circuit Court.
In Green v. Neal's Lessee, 6 Pet. 291, a construction given
by the Supreme Court of Tennessee to the statute of limitations of that State having been overruled, this court followed

WADE v. TRAVIS COUNTY.
Opinion of the Court.

the later case, although it had previously adopted the rule
laid down in the overruled cases. See also Lefingwellv. arren, 2 Black, 599; Fairieldv. Gallatin County, 100 U. S. 47.
In .2forgan v. Curtenius, 20 How. 1, the Circuit Court
placed a construction upon an act of the legislature in accordance with a decision of the Supreme Court of Illinois
with reference to the very same conveyance, and it was held
that that, being the settled rule of property which that court
was bound to follow, this court would affirm its judgment,
though the Supreme Court of the State had subsequently
overruled its own decision, and had given the act and the
same conveyance a different construction. We do not consider this case as necessarily conflicting with those above
cited.
An exception has been admitted to this rule, where, upon
the faith of state decisions affirming the validity of contracts
made or bonds issued under a certain statute, other contracts
have been made or bonds issued under the same statute before
the prior cases were overruled. Such contracts and bonds
have been held to be valid, upon the principle that the holders
upon purchasing such bonds and the parties to such contracts
were entitled to rely upon the prior decisions as settling the
law of the State. To have held otherwise would enable the
State to set a trap for its creditors by inducing them to subscribe to bonds and then withdrawing their own security.
Gelpcke v. Dubuque, 1 Wall. 175; IHavemeyer'v. Iowa County,
3 Wall. 291; Mitchell-v. Burlington, 4 Wall. 270; Riggs v.
Johnson County, 6 Wall. 166; Lee County v. Rogers, 7 Wall.
181; Chicago v. Sheldon, 9 Wall. 50; Olcott v. Sipervisors,
16 Wall. 678; Douglass v. Pike County, 101 U. S. 677; Burgess v. Seligman, 107 U. S. 20.

Obviously this class of cases has no application here. The
bonds were issued in good faith for a valuable consideration
received by the county, and were purchased by the plaintiff
with no notice of infirmity attaching to them. If certain decisions, pronounced after the bonds were issued, threw doubt
upon their validity, those doubts have been removed by a
later decision pronouncing unequivocally in favor of their

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Syllabus.

validity. In the theory of the law the constructibn given to
the bonds of this description in the 7iitchell County case is
and always has been the proper one, and as such, we have no
hesitation in following it. So far as judgments rendered in
other cases which are final and unappealable are concerned, a
different question arises.
The judgments of the Court of Appeals and of the Circuit
Court must be
Reversed, and the case remanded to the Circuit Courtfor
the Western District of Texas for Jurther proceedings

in conformity with this opinion.

THE OLINDE RODRIGUES.
APPEAL FRIOM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNrITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
No. 704. Argued April 11, 18, 1899. -Decided

May 15, 1899.

A blockade to be binding must be known to exist.
There is no rule of law determining that the presence of a particular
force is necessary in order to render a blockade effective, but, on the
contrary, the test is whether it is practically effective, and that is a
mixed question, more of fact than of law.
While it is not practicable to define what degree of danger shall constitute
a test of the efficiency of a blockade, it is enough if the danger is real
and apparent.
An effective blockade is one which makes it dangerous for vessels to attempt to enter the blockaded port; and the question of effectiveness is
not controlled by the number of the blockading forces, but one modem'
cruiser is enough as matter of law, if it is sufficient in fact for the purpose, and renders it dangerous for other craft to enter the port.
The blockade in this case was practically dffective, and, until it should be
raised by an actual driving away by the ene.my, it was not. open to a
neutral trader to ask whether, as against a possible superiority of the
enemy's fleet, it was or was not effective in a military sense.
After the captors had put in their proofs, the claimant, without introducing anything further, moved for the discharge and restitution of the
steamship, on the ground of the ineffective character of the blockade
and because the evidence did not justify a decree of condemnation; and
in addition claimed the right to adduce further proofs, if its inotion

