OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

that there was error in the conclusions of the lower courts;
that the decree must be
Reversed and the case remandedwith instructionsto set aside
the decree of dismissal, and to order an inquiry into the
question whether the intended acts of the defendants in the
construction of a dam and in appropriatingthe waters of
the Rio Grande will substantially diminish the vavigability of that stream within the limits of j2resen2t navigability, and if so, to enter a decree restrainingthose acts to
the extent that they will so diminish.
MR. JUSTicE GRAY and MR. JUsTIcE MoKENNA were not
present at the argument, and took no part in the decision.

CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND AND PACIFIC RAILWAY
COMPANY v. STURM.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
No. 236. Submitted April 5, 1899.-Decided May 22, 1899.
Sturm sued the railway company in a justices' court in Kansas for wages
due, and recovered for the full amount claimed. The company appealed
to the county district court. When the case was called there for trial,
the company moved for a continuance on the ground that a creditor of
Sturm had sued him in a court in Iowa, of which State the railway company was also a corporation, and had garnisheed the company there for
the wages sought to be recovered in this suit, and had recovered a judgment there from which an appeal had been taken which was still pending.
The motion for continuance was denied, the case proceeded to trial, and
judgment was rendered for Sturm for the amount sued for, with costs.
A new trial was moved for, on the ground, among others, that the decision was contrary to and in conflict with section 1, article IV, of the Constitution of the United States. The motion was denied, and the judgment
was sustained by the Court of Appeals and by the Supreme Court of the
State. The case was then brought here. Held, that the Iowa court had
jurisdiction, and that the Kansas courts did not give to the proceedings
in Iowa the faith and credit they had in Iowa, and were consequently
entitled to in Kansas, and the judgment must be reversed.

THE defendant in error brought an action against the plain-

CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND &c. RAILWAY v. STURM.

711

Statement bf the Case.

tiff in error in a justices'.court of Belleville, Republic County,
Kansas, for the sum of $140, for wages due. Judgment was
rendered for him in the sum of $140 and interest and costs.
The plaintiff in error appealed from the judgment to the
district court of the county, to which court all the papers were
transmitted, and the case docketed for trial.
On the 10th of October, 1894, the case was called for trial,
when plaintiff in error filed a motion for continuance, supported by an affidavit affirming that on the 13th day of December, 1893, in the county of Pottawattomie and State of
Iowa, one A. H. Willard commenced an action against E. H.
Sturm in justices' court before. Oride Vien, a justice of the
peace for said county, to recover the sum of $78.63, with interest at the rate of ten per cent per annum, and at the same
time sued out a writ of attachment and garnishment, and duly
garnisheed the plaintiff in error, and at that time plaintiff in
error was indebted to defendant in error in the sum of "$77.17
for wages, being the same wages sought to be recovered in
this action;
That plaintiff in error filed its answer, admitting such
indebtedness;
That at the time of the commencement of said action in
Pottawattomie County the defendant was a non-resident of
the State of Iowa., and that service upon him was duly made
by publication, and that afterwards judgment was rendered
against him and plaintiff in error as garnishee for the sum of
$76.16, and costs of suit amounting to $19, and from such
judgment appealed to the district court of said county, where
said action was then pending undetermined;
That the moneys sought to be recovered in this action are
the same moneys sought to be recovered in the garnishment'
proceedings, and that under the laws of Iowa its courts had
jurisdiction thereof, and that the said moneys were not at-the
time of the garnishment exempt from attachment, execution
or garnishment; that the justice of the peace at all of the
times of the proceedings was a duly qualified and acting justice, and that all the proceedings were commenced prior to
the commencement of the present action, and that if the case

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

be continued until the next term of the court the action in
Iowa will be determined and the rights of plaintiff in error
protected.
The. motion was denied, and the plaintiff in error pleaded
in answer the same matters alleged in the affidavit for continuance, and- attached to the answer a certified copy of the
proceedings in the Iowa courts. It also alleged that it was a
corporation duly organized under the laws of the States of
Illinois and Iowa, doing business in the State of Kansas.
The defendant in error replied to the answer, and alleged
that the amount due from plaintiff in error was for wages due
for services rendered within three months next prior to the
commencement of the action; that he was a resident, head of
a family, and that the wages were exempt under the laws
of Kansas, and not subject to garnishment proceedings; that
plaintiff in error knew these facts, and that the Iowa court
.had no jurisdiction of his property or person.
Evidence was introduced in support of the issues, including
certain sections of the laws of Iowa relating to service by publication, and to attachment and garnishment, and judgment was
rendered for the defendant in error in the amount sued for.
A new trial was moved, on the ground, among others, that
the "decision is contrary to and in conflict with section 1,
article IV,of the Constitution of the United States."
The motion was denied.
On error to the Court of Appeals, and from thence to the
Supreme Court, the judgment was affirmed, and the case was
then brought here.
The defendant in error was notified of the suit against him
in Iowa and of the proceedings in garnishment in time to have
protected his rights.
The errors assigned present in various ways the contention
that the Supreme Court of Kansas refused to give full faith
and credit to the records and judicial proceedings of the courts
of the State of Iowa, in violation of section 1, article IV, of
the Constitution of the United States, and of the act of Congress entitled "An act to prescribe the mode in which the
public acts, records and judicial proceedings in each State

CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND &c. RAILWAY v. STURK

713

Opinion of the Court.

shall be authenticated so as to take effect in every other
State," approved May 26, 1790.
M.. T. F. Evans and .Mr. M. A. Low for plaintiff in error.
No appearance f6r defendant in error.

_

MR. JUSTICE MOKENNA, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.
How proceedings in garnishment may be availed of in defence - whether in abatement or bar of the suit on the debt attached or for a continuance of it or suspension of execution the practice of the States of the Union is not uniform. But it
is obvious and necessary justice that such proceedings should
be allowed as a defence in some way.
In the pending suit plaintiff in error moved for a continuance, and not securing it pleaded the proceedings in garnishment in answer. Judgment, however, was rendered dgainst
it, and sustained by the Supreme Court, on the authority of
.fissouri Pacic Railway Co. v. iaritt,43 Kansas, 375, and
"for the reasons stated by Mr. Justice Valentine in that case."
The facts of that case were as follows: The Missouri Pacific Railway Company-was indebted to Sharitt for services
performed in Kansas. Sharitt was indebted to one J. P.
Stewart, a resident of Missouri. Stewart sued him in Missouri, and attached his wages in the hands of the railway company, and the latter answered in the suit in accordance with
the order of garnishment on the 28th of July,1887, admitting
indebtedness, and on the 29th of September was ordered to pay
its amount into court. On the 27th of July Sharitt brought
an action in Kansas against the railway company to recover for
his services, and the company in defence pleaded the garnishment and order of the Missouri court. The amount due Sharitt
having been for wages, was exempt from attachment in Kansas.
It was held that the garnishment was not a defence. The
facts were 'similar therefore to those of the case at bar.
The ground of the opinion of Mr. Justice Valentine was

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion 'of the Court.

that the Missouri court had no jurisdiction because the situs
of the debt was in Kansas. In other words, and to quote the
language of the learned justice, "the situ8 of a debt is either
with the owner thereof, or at his domicil; or where the debt
is to be paid ; and it cannot be subjected to a proceeding ingarnishment anywhere else.

.

.

.

It is not the debtor who

can carry or transfer or transport the property in a debt from
one State orjurisdiction into another. The situs of the property in a debt can be changed only by the change of location
of the creditor who is the owner thereof, or with his consent."
The primary proposition is that the itus of a debt is at
the domicil of a creditor, or, to state it negatively, it is not
at the domicil-of the debtor.
The proposition is supported by some cases; it is opposed
by others. Its error proceeds, as we conceive, from confounding debt and credit, rights and remedies. The right of
a creditor and the obligation of a debtor are correlative but
different things, and the law in adapting its remedies for or
against either must regard that difference. Of this there are
many illustrations, and a proper and accurate attention to it
avoids misunderstanding. This court said by Mr. Justice
Gray in TWyman, v. ilalstead, 109 IU.S. 654, 656: "The general rule of law is well settled, that for the purpose of founding administration all simple contract debts are assets at the
domicil of the debtor." And this is not because of defective
title in the creditor or in his administrator, but because the
policy of the State of the debtor requires it to protect home
creditors.
Wi7kins v. Ellett, 9 Wall. 7'40; 108 U. S. 256.
Debts cannot be assets at the domicil of the debtor if their
locality is fixed at the domicil of the creditor, and if the
policy of the State of the debtor cah protect home creditors
. through administration proceedings, the same policy can protect home creditors through attachment proceedings.
For illustrations in matters of taxation, see Eirtland v.
Hotckkiss, 100 U. S. 491; Pullman's Car Co. v. Psennsylvania, 141 U. S. 18; Savings and Zoan Society v...futtnomah County, 169 U. S. 421.
Our attachment laws had their origin in the custom of

CHICAGO, ROCK-ISLAN)

&c. RAILWAY v. STURM

715

Opinion of the Court.

London. Drake, ยง 1. Under it a debt was regarded as being
where the debtor was, and questions of jurisdiction were settled on that regard. In Andrews v. Clerke, 1 Carth. 25,
Lord Chief Justice Holt summarily decided such a question,
and stated the practice under the custom of London. The
report of the case is brief, and is as follows:
"'Andrews levied a plaint in the Sheriff's Court in London
and, upon the.usual suggestion that one T. S. (the garnishee)
was debtor to the defendant, a foreign attachment was
awarded to attach that debt in the hands of T. S., which
was accordingly done; and then a diletur was entered, which
is in nature of an imparlance in.that court.
"Afterwards T. S. (the garnishee) pleaded to the jurisdiction setting forth that the cause of debt due from him to the
defendant Sir Robert Clerke, and the contract on whiph it
was founded, did arise, and was made at Hl. in the county
of Middlesex, extrajurisdictionemcurim; and this plea being
overruled, it was now moved (in behalf of T. S., the garnishee,) for a prohibition to the sheriff's court aforesaid, suggesting the said matter, (viz.) that the cause of action did
arise extrajurisdictionem,etc., but the prohibition was denied
because the debt always follows the person of the debtor,
and it is not material where it was contracted, especially as
to this purpose of foreign attachments; for it was always
the custom in London to attach debts. upon bills of exchange,
and goldsmith's notes, etc., if the goldsmith who gave the
note on the person to whom the bill is directed, liveth within
the city without any respect had to the place where the debt
was contracted."
The idea of locality of things which may be said to be
intangible is somewhat confusing, but if it be kept up the
right of the creditor and the obligation of the debtor cannot
have the same, unless debtor and creditor live in the same
place. But we do not think it is necessary to resort to the
idea at all or to give it important distinction. The essential
service of foreign attachment laws is to reach and arrest the
payment of what is due and might be paid to a non-resident
to the defeat of his creditors. To do it lie must go to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

domicil of his debtor, and can only do it under the laws and
procedure in force there. This is a legal necessity, and considerations of .situs are somewhat artificial. If not artificial,
whatever of substance there is must be with the debtor, He
and. he only has something in his hands. That something
is the res, and giires character to the action as one in the

nature of a proceeding in rem. -Mooney v. Buford & George
.Mfg. Co., 72 Fed. Rep. 32; Conflict of Laws, ยง 519, and notes.
To ignore this is to give immunity to debts owed to nonresident creditors from attachment by their creditors, and to
deny necessary remedies. A debt may be as valuable as
tangible things. It is not capable of manual seizure, as they
are, but no more than they can it be appropriated by attachment without process and the power to execute the process.
A notice to the debtor must be given, and can only be given
and enforced where he is. This, as we have already said, is a
necessity, and it cannot be evaded by the insistence upon fictions or refinements about 8itus or the rights of the creditor.
Of course, the debt is the property of the creditor, and because it is, the law seeks to subject it, as it does other property, to the payment of his creditors. If it can be done in
any other way than by process against and jurisdiction of his
debtor, that way does not occur to us.
Besides the proposition which we have discussed there are
involved in the decision of the 8haritt case the propositions
that a debt may have a situs where it is payable, and that
it cannot be made migratory by the debtor. The latter was
probably expressed as a consequence of the primary proposition and does not require separate consideration. Besides
there is no fact of change of domicil in the case. The plaintiff in error was not temporarily in Iowa. It was an Iowa
corporation and a rbsident of the State, and. was such at the
time the debt sued on was contracted, and we are not concerned to inquire whether the cases which decide that a
debtor temporarily in a State cannot be garnisheed there, are
or are not justified by principle.
The proposition that the situs of a debt is where it is to be
paid, is indefinite. "All debts are payable everywhere, un-

CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND &c. RAILWAY v. STURM.

71

Opinion of the Court.

less there be some special limitation or provision in respect to
the payment; the rule being that debts as such have no locas
or situs, but accompany the creditor everywhere, and authorize a demand upon the debtor everywhere." 2 Parsons on
Contracts, 8th edition, 702. The debt involved in the pending case had no "special limitation or provision in respect to
payment." It -was payable generally and could have been
sued on in Iowa, and therefore was attachable in Iowa. This
is the principle and effect of the best considered cases- the
inevitable effect from the nature of -transitory actions and the
purpose of foreign attachment laws if we would enforce that
purpose. .Em ree v. Hanna, 5 Johns. 101; Aull v. Blake, 13
Mass. 153; Blake v. Williams, 6 Pick. 286; Harwell v. 8harp,
85 Georgia, 124; Harvey v. Great Northern Railway Go., 50
Minnesota, 405; .fahany v. Kephart, 15 W. Va. 609; Leiber
v. Railroad Co., 49 Iowa, 688; National .Fire Ins. Co. v.
Chlambers, 53 N. J. Eq. 468; Holland v. Mobile & Ohio Rail'oad, 84: Tenn. 414; Pomeroy v. Rand, .McNally & Go., 157
Illinois, 176; Berry Bros. v. Nelson, Davis & 0o., 77 Texas,
191; Weyt Hardware Co. v. Zang, 127 Missouri, 242; Howland v. Chicago, Rock. Island &c. Railway, 134 Missouri, 474.
Mr. Justice Valentine also expressed the view that "if a
debt is exempt from a judicial process in the State where it
is created, the exemption will follow the debt as an incident
thereto into any other State or jurisdiction into which the
debt may be supposed to be carried." For this he cites some
cases.
It is not :clear whether the learned justice considered that
the-dodtt'ine affected the jurisdiction of the Iowa courts or was
but an incident of the law of situs as expressed by him. If
the latter; it has been answered by what we have already said.
If the former, it cannot be sustained. It may have been error
for the Iowa court to have ruled against the doctrine, but the
error did not destroy jurisdiction. 134 Missouri, 474.
But we do not assent to the proposition. Exemption lawsare not a part of the contract; they are part of the remedy
and subject to the law of the forum. Freeman on Executions,
see: 209, and cases cited; also .7ineral Point Railroad v.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

Barron,83 Illinois, 365; Carson v. Railway Co., 88 Tennessee,
646; Couley v. Chilcote, 25 Ohio St. 320; Albtecht v. TreitSChke, 17 Nebraska, 205; O'Connor v. Ifalter, 37 Nebraska,
-267; Chicago, Burlington &c. Railroad v. _foore, 31 Nebraska, 629; Moore v. Chicago, Rook island &c. Railroad,43
Iowa, 385; Broadstreetv. Clark,D. & C. .M. & St. PaulRailroad, Garnishee,65 Iowa, 670; Stevens v. Brown, 5 West Virginia, 450. See also Bank of United States v. Donnally,8 Pet.
361; Wilcox v. Hunt, 13 Pet. 378; Townsend v. 7emison, 9
How. 407; IWalworth v. Harris, 129 U. S. 365; Penfmld v.
Chesapeake, Ohio &c. Railroad,134 U. S. 351. As to the extent to which lex fori governs, see Conflict of Laws, 571 et seq.
There are cases for and cases against the proposition that it
is the duty of a garnishee to notify the defendant, his creditor, of the pendency of the proceedings, and also to make the
defence of exemption, or he will be precluded from claimingthe proceedings in defence of an action against himself. We
need not comment on the cases or reconcile -them, as such
notice was given and the defence was made. The plaintiff in
error did all it could and submitted only to the demands of
the law.
In Broadstreetv. Clark, 65 Iowa, 670, the Supreme Court of
the State decided that exemption laws pertained to the remedy
and were not a defence in that State. This ruling is repeated
in Willard v. Sturm, 98 Iowa, 555, and applied to the proceedings in garnishment now under review.
It follows from these views that the Iowa court had jurisdiction, and that the Kansas courts did not give to the proceedings in Iowa the faith and credit they had there, and were
hence entitled to in Kansas.
The judgment is reversed and the case remandedfor Jurther roceedingsnot inconsistent with this opinion.

CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND

AND

PACIFIC RAILWAY

COiPA.NY V.

DAviD CAMPBELL. No. 235. Error to the Supreme Court of the
State of Kansas. Submitted with No. 236 on the same brief.

DAVIS v. COBLENS.
Syllabus.

MR.

JUSTICE MCKENNA:

The facts of this case are substantially

the same as in 1o. 236, except as to the. amount involved, and the
court in which the proceedings in attachment were commenced,
and
The judgment is reversed and the case remandedfor furtherproceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.

DAVIS v. COBLEUNS.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.
No. 246.

Argued April 18,19,1899. -Decided

May 22, 1899.

In this action of ejectment, the evidence of adverse possession contained in
the bill of exceptions, and set forth in the opinion of this court, is sufficient to justify the action of the trial court in submitting the question
to the jury.
By the terms of the statute in force in the District of Columbia, the time of
limitation of this action commenced to run against Lucy T. Davis, one
of the plaintiffs in error, on the death of her mother, and as her mother's
death took place more than ten years after the cause of action accrued,
the term against the plaintiff in error expired in ten years after it
accrued, and no disability on her part arrested its running.
It is the general practice to permit tenants in common to sue jointly or
separately in ejectment; but if they sue jointly it is with the risk of the
failure of all, if one of them fal to make out a title or right to possession.
When a cross-examination is directed to matters not inquired about in the
principal examination, Its course and extent are very largely subject to
the control of the court in the exercise of a sound discretion, and the
exercise of that discretion is not reviewable on a writ of error.
The plaintiff requested the following instruction: "The jury are instructed
that there is no testimony in this case tending to rebut the testimony of
the witness John H. Walter that he never conveyed lot 10, in controversy
in this case, to any person other than the conveyance by the deed to
plaintiffs Charles M. N. Latimer, Lucy T. Davis and others, and the jury
would not be justified in finding to the contrary." The court struck out
the words in italics, and inserted instead, "and the weight to be given
his testimony is a proper question for the jury." Held tiat this was
not error.

THE statement of the case will be found in the opinion of

the court.

