OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Syllabus.

In short, the warrants, if valid, were legal causes of action
enforceable in a court of law. The defendant did not waive
the question, but averred in its answer that the matters compltined of in-the bill were matters which could be tried and
determined at law. And the Supreme Court of the Territory
in its opinion says: "If the warrants, upon which payment is
sought here, are valid, an action at law is the proper remedy
to enforce their payment. They have been issued' and are,
claimed to be outstanding obligations against the defendant
town, and it says they are void, and therefore declines to pay
them, Then, if in an action at law judgment should be in
favor of the legal holders, and defendant's trustees should decline to provide for their payment, mandamus would be the
proper remedy to compel the necessary levy?'
In this state of facts we think the courts below erred in considering and determining the legal controversy in a suit in
equity, but should have dismissed complainant's bill without
prejudice to its right to bring an action at law. Barney v.
Baltimore,6 Wall. 280 ; Hendigv. Dean, 97 U. S. 423 ; Rogers
v. Durant,106 U. S. 644.
Accordingly, and without expressing or implying any opinion of our own on the'merits of the controversy The decree of the Supreme Court of the Territory is reversed
and the cause is remanded to that court with direction's to
amend its decree by directing the district court to dismiss
the bill without prejudice to the right of the complainant
to sue at law.

CONCORD FIRST NATIONAL -BANK v. HAWKINS.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE FIRST
CIRCUIT.
No. 181. Argued and submitted January 20, 1899.-Decided May 15, 189i.

The investment by the First National Bank of Concord, New Hampshire, of
a part of its surplus funds in the stock of the Indianapolis National
Bank of Indianapolis, Indiana, was an act which it had no power or

CONCORD FIRST NATIONAL BANK v. HAWKINS. 365
Statement .of the Case.
authority in law to do, and which is plainly against the meaning and
policy of the statutes of the United States and cannot be countenanced;
and the Concord corporation is not liable to the receiver of the Indianapolis corporation for an assessment upon the stock so purchased made
under an order of the Comptroller of the Currency to enforce the individual liability of all stockholders to the extent of the assessment.
The doctrine of estoppel does not apply to this case.

IW May, 1895, Edward Hawkins, as receiver of the Indianapolis National Bank, brought a suit, in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the District of New Hampshire, against
the First National Bank of Concord. At the trial a jury was
waived, and the court found the following facts:
"The plaintiff is receiver of the Indianapolis National Bank
of Indianapolis, which bank was duly organized and authorized to do business as a national, banking association. The
bank was declared insolvent and ceased to do business on the
24th day of July, 1893; the plaintiff was duly appointed and
qualified receiver of the bank on the 3d day of August, 1893,
and -took possession of the assets of the bank on the 8th day
of the same month.
"The capital stock of the bank was 3000 shares of the par
value of $100 each. On the 25th day of October, 1893, an
assessment was ordered by the Comptroller of $100 per share
on the capital stock of the bank, to enforce the individual liability of stockholders, and an order made to pay such assessment on or before the 25th day of November, 1893; and the
defendant was duly notified thereof.
"The defendant, being a national banking association, duly
organized and authorized to do business at Concord, N. H.,
on the 21st day of May, 1889, with a portion of its surplus
funds, purchased of a third party, authorized to hold and
make sale, 100 shares of the stock of the Indianapolis National Bank as .an investment, and has ever since held the
same as an investment. The defendant bank has appeared
upon the books of the Indianapolis bank as a shareholder of
100 shares of its stock, from the time of such purchase to the
present time. During such holding the defendant bank received annual dividends declared by the Indianapolis bank

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

prior~t July, 1893. The defendant has fiot paid said assessment or any part thereof."
After argument the court, on July 28, 1896, entered judgment in favor of the plaintiff for the sum of $11,646.67 and
costs. From that judgment a writ of error from the United
States Circuit Court of Appeals for the First Circuit was sued
out, and by that court the judgment of the trial court was, onMarch 5, 1897, affirmed. 33 U. S. App. 747. From the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals a writ of error was
allowed to this court.
.Ar.
Frank 8. Streeter for the Concord National Bank submitted on his brief.

Mr. John G. Carlise for Hawkins.
on his brief.
MR. JUSTXIO

21tr.

W.
' Ke

was

SRn-IS, after making the above statement,

delivered the opinion of the court.
The questions presented for our consideration in this case
are whether one natiohal bank can lawfully acquire and hold
the stock of another as an investment, and, if not, Whether,
in the case of such an actual purchase, the bank is estopped
to deny its liability, as an apparent stockholder, for an
"assessment on such stock ordered by the Comptroller of the
Currency.
' By section 5136 of the Revised Statutes a national banking
association-is authorized "to exercise by its board of directors,
or duly authorized officers and agents, subject to law, all such
incidental powers as shall be necessary to carry on the business of banking; by discounting and negotiating promissory
notes, drafts, bills of exchange and other evidences of indebtedness; by -receiving deposits; by buying and, selling exchange, coin and bullion; by loaning monejr on personal
security; and by obtaining, issuing and circulating notes
according to the provisions of this title."
In construing this provision, *it was said by this cou_., in

CONCORD FIRST NATIONAL BANK v." HAWKINS.

367

Opinion of the Court.

Firet National Bank v. Hfatiohal Exchange Bank 92 U. S.
122, 128, that "dealing in stocks is not expressly prohibited,
but such a prohibition is implied from the failure to grant the
power. In the honest exercise of the power to compromise -L
doubtful debt owing to a bank, it can hardly be doubted that
stocks may be accepted in payment and satisfactidn, with a
view to their subsequent sale or conversion into money so as
to make good or reduce an anticipated loss. Such a transaction would not amount to a dealing in stocks."
And in the recent case of CaliforniaBank v. Zeknedy, 167
U. S. 362, it was said to be "settled that the United States
statutes relative to national banks constitute the measure of
the authority of such corporations, and that they cannot rightfully exercise any powers except those expressly granted, or
which are incidental to carrying on the business for which
they are established. . . . No express power to acquire
the stock of another corporation is conferred upon a national
bank, but it has been held that, as incidental to the power to
loan money on personal security, a bank may, in the usual
course of doing such business, accept stock of another corpora-.
tion as collateral, and by the enforcement of its rights as'
pledgee it may become the owner of the collateral and be
subject to liability as other stockholders. . . . So, also, a
national bank may be conceded to possess the incidental power
of accepting in good faith stock of another corporation as. security for a previous indebtedness. It is clear, however, that a
national bank does not possess the power to deal in stocks.
The prohibition is implied from the failure to grant the power '
Accordingly it was held in thaf case that a provision of the
laws of the State of California, which declared a liability on
the part of stockholders to pay the debts of a savings bank,
in proportion to the amount of stock held by each, could not be enforced against a national bank, in whose name stood
shares of stock in a savings bank, it being admitted that the
stock of the savings bank had not been taken as security, and
that the transaction by which the stock was placed in the
name of the national bank was one not in the course of the'
business of banking for which the bank was organized.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

It is suggested by the learned Circuit Judge, in his opinion
overruling a petition for a rehearing in the Circuit Court of
Appeals, that the question considered in the case of Califo',nzi
Bank v. Eennedy was the liability of a national bank as a
stockholder in a state savings bank, while the question in the
present case is as to its liability as a stockholder in another
national bank, and that therefore it does not follow beyond
question that the decision in the former case is decisive of the
present one. 50 U. S. App. 178.
No reason is given by the learned -judge in support of the
solidity of such a distinction, and none occurs to us. Indeed,
we'think that the reasons which disqualify a national bank
from investing its money in the stock of another corporation
are quite as obvious when that other corporation is a national
bank as in the case of other corporations. The investment by
national banks of their surplus funds in other national banks,
situated, perhaps, in distant States, as in the present case, is
plainly against the meaning and policy of the statutes from
which they derive their powers, and evil consequences would
be certain to ensue if such a course of conduct were countenanced as lawful. Thus, it is enacted, in section 5146, that
"every director must, during his whole term of service, be a
citizen of the United States, and at least three fourths of the
directors must have resided in the State, Territory or distuict
in which the association is located for at least one year immediately preceding their election, and must be residents therein
during their continuance in office."
One of the evident purposes of this enactment is to confine
the management of each bank to persons who live in the
neighborhood, and who may, for that reason, be supposed to
know the trustworthiness of those who are to be appointed
officers of the bank, and the character and financial ability of
those who may seek to borrow its money. But if the funds
of a bank in New Hampshire, instead of being retained in the
custody and management of its directors, are invested in the
stock of a bank in Indiana, the policy of this wholesome
provision of the statute would be frustrated. The -property
of the local stockholders, so far as thus invested, would not be

CONCORD FIRST NATIONAL BANK v. HAWKINS. 369
Qpinion of the Court.

managed by directors of their own selection, but by distant
and unknown persons. Another evil that might result, if
large and wealthy banks were permitted to buy and hold the
capital stock of other banks, would be that, in that way, the
banking capital of a community might be concentrated in one
concern, and business men be deprived of the advantages that
attend competition between banks. Such accumulation of
capital would be in disregard of the policy of the national
banking law, as seen in its numerous provisions regulating the
amount of the capital stock and the methods to be pursued in
increasing or reducing it. The smaller banks, in such, a case,
would be in fact, though not in form, branches of the larger
one.
Section 5201 may also be referred to as indicating the policy of this legislation. It is in the following terims:
":No association shall make any loan or discount on the
security of the shares of its own capital stock, nor be the purchaser or holder of any such shares, unless such security or
purchase shall be necessary to prevent loss upon a debt previously contracted in good faith; and stock so purchased or
acquired shall, within six months from the time of its purchase,
'be sold or disposed of at public or private sale; or, in default
thereof, a receiver may be appointed to close up the business
of the association."
This provision, forbidding a national bank to own and hold
shares of its own capital stock, would, in effect, be' defeated if
one national bank were permitted to own. and hold a controlling interest in the capital stock of another.
Without pursuing this branch of the subject further, we are
satisfied to express our conclusion, upon principle and authority, that the plaintiff in error, as a national banking association, had no power or authority to purchase with its surplus
funds as an investment, and hold as such, shares of stock in
the Indianapolis National Bank of Indianapolis.
The remaining question for our determination is whether
the First National Bank of Concord, having, as a matter of
fact, but without authority of law, purchased and held as an
investment shares of stock in the Indianapolis National Bank,
VOL. CLXXIV-2

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

can protect itself from a suit by the receiver of the latter
brought to enforce the stockholders' liability, arising under an
assessment by the Comptroller of the Currency, by alleging
the unlawfulness of its own action.
This question has, been so recently answered by decisions of
this court that it will be sufficient, for our present purpose, to
cite those decisions without undertaking to fortify the reasoning and conclusions therein reached.
In Central TransportationCompany v. Pullman's Car Co..,
139 U. S. 24, after an examination of the authorities, the conclusion was thus stated by Mr. Justice Gray:
"It was argued in behalf of the plaintiff that, even if the
contract sued on was void, because ultra vires and against
public policy, yet that, having been fully performed on the
part of the plaintiff, and the benefits of it received by the
defendant, for the period covered by the declaration, the defendant was estopped to set up the invalidity of the contract
as a defence to this action to recover the compensation agreed
on for that period. But this argument, though sustained by
decisions in some of the States, finds no support in the judgment of this court.

.

.

.

The view which this court has

taken of the question presented by this branch of the case,
and the only view which appears to us consistent with legal
principles, is as follows:
"A contract of a corporation which is ultra vires in the
proper sense, that is to say, outside the object of its creation
as defined in the law of its organization, and therefore beyond
the powers conferred upon it by the legislature, is not voidable
only, but wholly void and of no legal effect. The objection
to the contract is, not merely that the corporation ought not
to have made it, but that it could not make it. The contract
cannot be ratified by either party, because it could not be
authorized by either. No performance on either side can give
the unlawful contract any validity, or be the foundation of any
right of action upon it.
"When a corporation is acting within the general scope of
the powers conferred upon it by the legislature, the corporation, as well as persons contracting with it, may be estopped

CONCORD FIRST NATIONAL BANK v. HAWKINS.

371

Opinion of the Court.

-

to deny that it has complied with the' legal formalities which
are prerequisites to its existence or to its action, because such
requisites might in fact have been complied with. But when
the contract is beyond the powers conferred upon it by existing laws, neither the corporation nor the other party to the
contract can be estopped by assenting to it, or by acting upon
it, to show that it was prohibited by those laws."
The principles thus asserted were directly applied in the
case of CaliforniaBank v. Eennedy, 167 U. S. 362, 367, where
the question and the answer were thus stated by Mr.Justice
White:
"The traiisfer of the stock in question to the bank being
unauthorized by law, does the fact that, under some circumstances, the bank might have legally acquired stock in the
corporation, estop the bank from setting up the illegality of
the transaction?
"Whatever divergence of opinion may arise on this question
from conflicting adjudications in some of the state courts,
in this court it is settled in favor of the right of the corporation to plead its want -of power, that is to say, to assert the
nullity of an act which is an ult~raviies act. The cases
recognize as sound doctrine that the powers of corporations
are such only as are conferred upon them by statute."
There is then quoted a passage from the decision of the
court in .71cormick v. faricet -NationalBank-, 165 U. S. 538,
549, as follows:
"The doctrine of ultra vires, by which a contract made by
a corporation beyond the scope of its corporate powers is unlawful and void, and will not support an action, rests, as this
court has often recognized and affirmed, upon three distinct
grounds: The obligation of any one contracting with a corporation to take notice of the legal limits of its powers; the
interest of the stockholders not to be subject to risks which
they have never undertaken; and, above all, the interest of
the public that the corporation shall not transcend the powers
conferred upon it by law."
The conclusion reached was thus expressed:
"The claim that the bank, in consequence of the receipt

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opifion of the Court.

by it of dividends on the stock of the savings bank is estopped
from questioning its ownership and consequent liability, is but
a reiteration of the contention that the acquiring of stock by
the bank, under the circumstances disclosed, was not void but
merely voidable. It would be a contradiction in terms to
assert that there was a total want of power by any act to
assume the liability, and yet to say that by a particular act
the liability resulted. The transaction being absolutely void,
could not be confirmed or ratified."
In the present case it is sought to escape the force of these
decisions by the contention that the liability of the stockholder
in a national bank to respond to an assessment in case of insolvency is not contractual, but statutory.
Undoubtedly, the obligation is declared by the statute to
attach to the ownership of the stock, and in that sense may be
said to be statutory. But as the ownership of the stock, in
most cases, arises from the voluntary act of the stockh'older,
he must be regarded as having agreed or contracted to be
subject to the obligation.
However, whether, in the case of pelsons sui jutzs, this
liability is to be regarded as a contractual incident to the ownership of the stock, or as a statutory obligation, does not seem
to present a practical question in the present case.
If the previous reasoning be sound, whereby the conclusion
was reached that, by reason of the limitations and provisions.
of the national banking statutes, it is not competent for an-association organized thereunder to take upon itself, for investment, ownership of such stock, no intention can be reasonably
imputed to Congress to subject the stockholders and creditors
thereof, for whose protection those limitations and provisions
were designed, to the same liability by reason of a void act on
the part of the officers of the bank, as would have resulted
from a lawful act.
It is argued, on behalf of the receiver, that the object of
the statute was to afford a speedy and effective remedy to
the dreditors of a failed bank, and that this object would
be defbated in a great many cases if the Comptroller were
obliged to inquire into the validity of all the contracts by

PRICE v. UNITED STATES AND OSAGE INDIANTS. 373
Statement of the Case.

which the registered shareholders acquired their respective
shares.
The force of this objection is not apparent. It is doubtless
within the scope of the Comptroller's duty, when iiformed by
the reports of the bank that such an investment has been
made, to direct that it be at once disposed of, but the Comptroller's act in ordering an assessment, while conclusive as to
the necessity for making it, involves no judgment by him as
to the judicial rights of parties to be affected. While he, of
course, assumes that there are stockholders to respbnd to his
order, it is not his function to inquire or determine what, if
any, stockholders are exempted.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed,
the judgment of the Circuit Court is also reversed, and
the cause is remanded to that court with directions to
enter a judgment in confomity with this opinion. •

PRICE v. UNITED STATES AND OSAGE INDIANS.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS,
No. 247. Argued April 19,1899. -Dectded May 15,1899.
Under the act of March 3, 1891, c. 538, giving the Court of Claims jurisdicition over claims for property of citizens of the United States taken or
destroyed by Indians no jurisdiction is given to the court over a claim
for merely consequential damages resulting to the owner of property so
taken by reason of the taking but not directly caused by the Indians.

Tnis case came on appeal from the Court of Claims. The
matter of dispute is disclosed by the second aeclfourth findings
of the court, which are as follc~vs: Second. "On the 26th day of June, 1847, near the Arkansas
River, on the route from western Missouri to Santa F6, at a
place in what is now the State of Kansas, Indians belonging to
the Osage tribe took and drove away 32 bead of oxen, the
property of said decedent, which at the time and place of tak-

