OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

MISSOURI, KANSAS AND TEXAS RAILWAY COMPANY ,v.
McCANN.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF MISSOURI.
No. 11. Argued October 11, 1898.-

Decided May 22, 1899.

Section 944 of the Revised Statutes of Missouri of 1889, provided that,
"Whenever any property is received b a common carrier to be transferred from one place to another, within or without this State, or when
a -railroad or other transportation company issues receipts or bills of
lading in this State, the common carrier, railroad or transportation
company issuing such bill of lading shall be liable for any loss, damage
or injury to such property, caused by its negligence or the negligence of
any other common carrier, railroad or transportation company to which
such property may be delivered, or over whose line such property may
pass; and the common carrier, railroad or transportation company
issuing any such receipt or bill of lading shall be entitled to recover, in
a proper action, the amount of any loss, damage or injury it may be
required to pay to the owner of such property, from the common carrier,
railroad or transportation company, through whose negligence the loss,
damage or injury may be sustained." In commenting on this statute the
Supreme Court of Missouri said: ,,The provision of the statute is that
'wherever property is received by a common carrier to be transferred
from one place to another.' This language does not restrict, but rather
recognizes the right of the carrier to limit its contract of carriage to the
end of its own route, and there deliver the property to the connecting
carrier. There can be no doubt, then, that under the statute, as well as
under the English law, the carrier can, by contract, limit its duty. and
obligation to carriage over its own route." Held, That the statute as
thus interpreted could not be held to be repugnant to the Constitution
of the United States.

THE. statement of the case will be found in the opinior )f
the court.
.Ar. George P. B. Jaokom for plaintiff in error.
3fr. J. H. Bodes for defendants in error. Mr.B. B. Bristow and .Mr'. Charles E. Yeater were on his brief.
MR.JUSTiCE WmTE

delivered the opinion of the court.

A statute of the State of Missouri, found in the RevisedL
Statutes of that State, 1889, c. 26, reads as follows:

MISSOURI, KANSAS & TEXAS RAILWAY v. McCANNI,

581

Opinion of the Court.
"SEc. 944. Whenever any property is -received by a common carrier to be transferred from one place to an6the,
within or without this State, or when a railroad or other
transportation company issues receipts or bills of lading in
this State, the common carrier, railroad or transportation
company issuing such bill of lading shall be liable for any
loss, damage or injury to such property, caused by its negligence or the negligence of any other common carrier, railroad or transportation company to which such property may
be delivered, or over whose line such property may pass;
and the common carrier, railroad or transportation company
issuing any such receipt or bill of lading shall be entitled to
recover, in a proper action,'the amount of any loss, damage
or injury it may be required to pay to the owner of such
property, from the common carrier, railroad or transportation company, through whose negligence the loss, damage
or injury may be sustained."
Whilst this statute was in force the defendants in error
.shipped from Stoutsville in the State of Missouri, on the line
of the Missouri, Kansas and Texas Railway, to Chicago, Illinois, which was beyond the line of that road, ninety-nine
head of cattle. At the time of the shipment a bill of lading
was delivered to the shippers. The portions of the contract
pertinent to the questions here arising for consideration are
as follows :
"This agreement made between George A. Eddy and H.
C. Cross, receivers of the Missouri, Kansas and Texas Railway, parties of the first part, and M. B. Smizer, party of
the second. part, witnesseth that whereas the receivers of
the Missouri, Kansas and Texas Railway transport the live
stock as per above rules and regulations, and which are
hereby made a part of this contract, by mutual agreement
between the parties hereto; now, therefore, for the consideration and mutual covenants and conditfons herein contained, said-party of the first part is to transport -for the
second party the live stock described below, and the parties
in charge thereof, as hereinafter provided, namely: six cars
said to contain 95 head of cattle m. or 1. o. r. from Stouts-

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of tht Court.

ville Btation, Missouri, to Chicago, Illinois, station, consigned
to Bi-own Bros. & Smith, care Union stock yards at Chicago,
Illinois, at the through rate of 17ic. per hundred pounds,
from Stoutsville, Missouri, to Chicago, Illinois, subject to
minimum weights applying to cars of various lengths as per
tariff rules in effect on the day of shipment, the same being
a special rate, lower than the regular rates, or at a rate mutually agreed upon between the parties, for and in consideration of which said second party hereby covenants and agrees
as follows:
"1st. That he hereby releases the party of the first part
from the liability of common carrier in the transportation of
said stock, and agrees that such liability shall be that of a
mere forwarder or private carrier for hire. He also hereby
agrees to waive release, and does hereby release, said first
party from any and all liability for and on account of any
delay in shipping said stock, after the delivery thereof to its
agefit, and from any delay in receiving same after being tendered to its agent."
**

*X

-*-*

"4th. That the said second party for the consideration
aforesaid, hereby assumes, and releases said first party from
risk of injury or loss which may be sustained by reason of
any delay in the transportation of said stock caused by any
mob, strike, threatened or actual violence to person or property, from any source; failure of machinery or cars, injury to
track or yards, storms, floods, escape or robbery of any stock,
overloading cars, fright of animals, or crowding one upon
another, or any and all other causes except the negligence of
said first party, and said negligence not to be assumed, but to
be proved by the said party of the second part."
"13th. And it is further stipulated and agreed between
the parties hereto, that in case the live stock mentioned
herein is to be transported over the road or roads of any
other railroad company, the said party of the first part shall
be released from liability of every kind after said live stock
shall have left its road, and the party of the second part

MISSOURI, KANSAS & TEXAS RAILWAY v. McCANN.

583.

Opinion of the Court.

hereby so expressly stipulates and agrees; the understandingof both parties hereto - that the party of the first part shall
not be held or deemed liable for anything beyond the line
of the Missouri, Kansas and Texas Railway, excepting to
protect the through rate of freight named herein."
When'this bill of lading was executed an ancillary agreement was indorsed thereon, as follows:
"We, the undersigned persons in charge of the live stock
mentioned in the within contract, in consideration of the free
pass furnished us by the Missouri, Kansasand Texas Railway,
Geo. A. Eddy and H. 0. Cross, receivers, and of the other covenants and agreements contained in said contract, including rules
and regulations at the-head thereof and those printed on the
back thereof, all of which for the consideration -aforesaid are
hereby accepted by us and made a part of this contract, and
of the terms and conditions, of which we hereby agree to observe and be severally .bound by, do here.by expressly agree
that during the time we are in charge of said stock, and while
we are on our return passage, we shall be deemed employ~s
of said receivers of the Missouri, Kansas and Texas Railway,
for the purposes of said contract stated, and that we do agree
to assume, and do hereby assume, all risks incident to such
employment, and that said receivers shall in no case be liable
to us for any injury or damages sustained by us during such
time for which it would not be liable to its regular employs.
J. 0. RicuHiT.
(Signed)
M. B. SMzER."
The cattle were transported over the line of the Missouri,
Kansas and Texas Railway to Hannibal, Missouri, andfrom
that point the cars in which they were contained passed to the
line of the Wabash Railway destined for Chicago. At or near
Chicago an unreasonable-delay was occasioned in the transportation of the battle by the negligence of employ~s of the
Wabash Railway, resulting in damage, for which the shippers
subsequently brought an action against the receivers of the
Missouri, Kansas-and Texas Railway to recover for the breach

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

of the contract of shipment. Judgment having been entered
upon the'verdict of a jury in favor of the plaintiffs, an appeal
was prosecuted by the receivers to the Supreme Court of the
*State, and was heard in division No. 2. There was a judgment reversing the lower court, and a motion for a rehearing was denied. Between the time of the decision of the Supreme Court and the overruling of the motion for a rehearing
both the receivers had died, and the railway company had resumed possession of its road. This fact having been called to
the attention of the Supreme Court, the railway company
was substituted as appellant instead of the receivers, and a
rehearing was ordered. The case was transferred to the court
in bane, and was argued before that tribunal. Thereafter a
decision was rendered affirming the judgment of the trial
court, and motion for a rehearing was denied. 133 Missouri,
59. The case was then brought by writ of error to this court.
By the assignments of error it is asserted, and in the argument at bar it has been strenuously urged, that the Missouri
statute above quoted is in conflict with the Constitution of
the United States, because it is a regulation of commerce
between the States, and that the Supreme Court of Missouri
hence erred in giving 'effect to the statute in the decision by it
rendered. The statute as interpreted by the Supreme Court
is asserted to operate to deprive the railway of the power of
making a through shipment of interstate commerce business
over connecting lines, without becoming liable for the negligence of the connecting carriers. In other words, the argument is that the effect of the Missouri statute, as interpreted
by the highest court of that State, is to deprive a railway
company, transacting the business of interstate commerce, of
all power to limit its liability to its own line, and, hence, compels it, if interstate commerce is engaged in or a through bill
of lading for such traffic is issued, to become responsible for
the articles carried throughout the entire route, thereby en-tailing upon the carrier receiving the goods the risk of negligence by other carriers along the line, even although such
lines are situated beyond the State in which the contract was
made or the business originated. This, it is insisted, is a direct

MISSOURI, KANSAS & TEXAS RAILWAY v. McOAIIT.

585

Ppinion of the Court.

burden imposed by the State upon interstate commerce, since
it forbids a carrier from engaging in that commerce, unless
it subjects itself to a liability for the faults of others, against
which it cannot guard and for which it was not previously
liable, and, moreover, by necessary effect, punishes the carrier
for issuing a through bill of lading for interstate commerce,
thereby tending to discourage the through transportation of
merchandise from State to State, and having a direct and
inevitable tendency to defeat the portion of the provisions of
the sixth section of the act to regulate commerce, as amended
March 2, 1889, c. 382, 25 Stat. 855, referring to the subject
of jointrate of tariffs over continuous roads of different
carriers, and the seventh section of the original act, approved
February 4, 1887, c. 104, 24 Stat. 38 , which was designed to
cause the carriage of freight to be continuous from the place
of shipment to the place of. destination.
The contention advanced in these several propositions is,
however, without foundation, from the fact that it proceeds
upon an erroneous assumption of the purport of the Missouri
statute in question, since the Supreme Court of Missouri, in
applying that statute in the case before us, has, in the most
positive terms, declared that it was not intended to and did
not prevent a carrier engaged in interstate commerce traffic
from limiting his liability to his own line, and that far from
doing this the statute left the carrier the amplest power to
make such limitation in receiving goods for interstate carriage
and in issuing a through bill of lading therefor. In commenting on the statute the court said:
"The provision of the statute is that ' wherever property
is received by a common carrier to be transferrbd from one
place to another.' This language does not restrict, but rather
recognizes the right of the carrier to limit'its contract of carriage to the end of its own route, and there deliver the property to the connecting carrier.
"There can be no doubt, then, that under the statute, as
well as under the English law, the carrier can, by contract,
limit.its duty and obligation to carriage over its own route."
Again, in summing up its conclsions, the court said:

OCTOBER TERT, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

"We are unable to see, as contended by defendant, that the
construction we give this statute makes it repugnant to that
provision of the Constitution of the United States, which gives
to Congress alone the power to regulate commerce among the
States.
"The act in no way operates as a regulation of trade and
business among the States. No burden or restriction on transportation is imposed. Carriers are left free to make their own
contracts in regard to compensation for their services for transportation between the States, subject to Congressional regulations."
The reasoning now relied on then is, that, although the
Supreme Court of the State of Missouri has interpreted the statute of that State as not depriving a carrier of power, on receiving an interstate shipment, to limit its liability to its own line,
this court should disregard the interpretation given to the
state statute, by the court of last resort of the State, and hold
that the statute means the very contrary of its import, as
declared by the Supreme Court of the State, and upon such construction decide that the state law is repugnant to the Constitution of the United States. But the elementary rule is that
this court accepts the 'interpretation of the statute of a State
affixed to it by the court of last resort thereof. Sioux City
Trust Company v. Trust Company, 172 U. S.64-2, and authorities there cited.
It is urged, however, that even although it be conceded that
the Supreme Court of Missouri has interpreted the statute in
question, in an abstract sense, as not depriving a railway
company of the power to limit its liability to its own line
when receiving goods for interstate shipment, the court has
nevertheless given the statute practical enforcement as if it
meant exactly the contrary of the interpretation affixed to
it. In other words, the proposition is, although the Supreme
Court of Missouri has declared that the statute did not deprive
a carrier of its right to limit its liability to its own line, yet it
has, as a necessary consequence of its application of the statute to the bill of lading in controversy in this cause, given to
the statute the very meaning which it expressly declared it

MISSOURI, KANSAS & TEXAS RAILWAY v. McCANl.

587

Opinion of the Court.

had not. Am examination, however, of the opinion of the
Supreme Court of Missouri demonstrates that it is not justly
susceptible of the construction thus placed upon it. Analyzing
the-gpinion of the court, it results that the court decided that
whilst the statute left a railway company ample power to restrict its liability by contract, both as to carriage and as to
liability for negligence, to its own line, the purpose embodied
in the statute.was to regulate the form in which the contract
should be expressed, so as to require the carrier to embody
the limitation directly and in unambiguous terms in the portion of the agreement reciting the contract to transport, and
not to import or imply such limitation by way of exception or
statements of conditions and qualifications, requiring on the
part of the shipper a critical comparison of clauses of the contract, in order to reach a proper understanding of its meaning.
That is to say, that the restraint imposed by the statute was
not a curtailment of the power to limit liability to the line of
the carrier accepting the freight, but a regulation of the form
in which the contract having that object in view should be
drawn.
Considering the statute as thus interpreted by the Supreme
Court of the State of Missouri, it cannot be held to be repugnant to the Constitution of the United States. The subject
of the power of the States to legislate as to the mere form of
contracts for interstate commerce carriage was fully considered
in Richmond & Alleghany Railroadv. Patterson Tobacco Co.,
169 U. S.311. In that case the court said (p. 314):
"The distinction between a law which forbids a contract
to be made and one which simply requires the contract when
made to be embodied in a particular form, is as obvious as is
the difference between the sum of the obligation of a contract
and the mere instrument by which their existence may be
manifested. The contract is the concrete result of the meeting of the minds of the contracting parties. The evidence
thereof is but the instrument by which the fact that the will
of the parties did meet is shown."
Of course, in a latitudinarian sense any restriction as to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

evidence of a contract, relating to interstate commerce, may
be said to be a limitation on the contract itself. But this remote effect, resulting from the lawful exercise by a State of its
power to determine the form in which contracts may be proved,
does not amount to a regulation of interstate commerce. The
principle on this subject has been often stated by this court,
and, indeed, has been quite recently so fully reviewed and applied that further elaboration becomes unnecessary." ,
But it is pressed that, conceding the statute to have the
purport given it by the Missouri court, nevertheless it does not
come within the rule announced in the case just referred to,
because the requirement of the Missouri statute, as interpreted, is so unreasonable as to amount in substance to a denial of the right of a carrier to confine by contract his duty of
carriage and his liability for negligence to his own line. If
the regulation of the statute be equivalent to a denial of the
right to so limit, this court, it is asserted, must consider its
substantial results, and not its mere theoretical significance.
This contention, however, is also without a solid basis to rest
upon. The requirement as to form held to be valid in Richmond & Alleghany Railroadv. Patterson Tobacco Co., supra,
was that every contract confining the liability upon an interstate shipment to the line of the receiving carrier should be
signed by the shipper or be invalid. The manifest intent of
such a regulation was to protect the shipper, by having it
clearly manifested by his signature that his attention had been
directed to the contract limitation of liability, so that no question might arise of inadvertence on his part in delivering the
merchandise and accepting the contract for its carriage, which
is usually prepared by the railroad company receiving goods
for transportation. Whilst differing in form of requirement,
the exaction that the carrier, in unambiguous terms, in the
portion of the contract acknowledging the receipt of the goods
and expressing the obligation to transport, should state the
limitation of his obligation as a carrier to his own line, but
effectuates the purpose designed by the Virginia statute, which
was upheld in the Pattersoncase.
If the bill of lading in the case before us did not contain a

IISSOURI, KANSAS & TEXAS RAILWAY v. McCANN.

589

Opinion of the Court.

positive statement of an obligation by the receiving carrier to
transport from the point of shipment to the ultimate destination of the cattle, of course it would not come under the control of the statute. But as, on the contrary, the contract
contains an expression of such obligation, limited by reference solely to subsequent conditions inserted in the bill of lading, it is plainly brought within the import of the. statute as
interpreted by. the Missouri court. It would have been within
the power of the receivers of the Missouri, Kansas and Texas
Railway to have stipulated that the goods were received, to
be transported by them from Stoutsville to the termination
of the line of railway operated by the receivers, and there to,
be delivered to a connecting carrier, who was to complete the
transportation. If this had been done, the bill of lading would
have had the plain import which the statute requires; nothing
would have been left for construction, and the contract woul6
have conveyed its obvious significance to the shipper who accepted it from the carrier. Because, instead of doing this, the
carrier chose, in the body of the bill of lading, to stipulate that
they were "to transport for the second party the live stock
described below, and the parties in charge thereof as hereinafter provided, namely: six cars said to contain 95 head of
cattle m. or 1. o. r. from Stoutsville Station, Missouri, to Chicago, Illinois, station, consigned to Brown Bros. & Smith, care
Union stock yards at Chicago, Illinois, at the through rate of
17.e. per hundred pounds, from Stoutsville, Missouri, to Chi-,
cago, Illinois," thus carving-out the limitation with respect to
carriage, if any, by reference to subsequent conditions, it cannot be reasonably complained that. the contract is governed
by the statute. The ancillary agreement which was indorsed
on the bill of lading, it is to be noted, adds cogency to this
view, since it declares that during the whole length of the
transit the parties who were to be in charge of the cattle
should be deemed employ6s of the receivers of the Missouri,
Kansas and Texas Railway, the initial carrier, and that they
should have no right to recover in the event of an injury or
damage sustained for Which the receivers would not be liable
to their regular employ~s.

590

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Syllabus.

To assert that because there is a liability arising from the
application of the statute to the bill of lading which would
not result from the bill of lading itself, therefore the statute
must necessarily have been held to impose on the carrier a
liability for an interstate shipment beyond its own line, is
without merit. True, if there had been no statute regulating
the form of the bill of lading, and we were called upon to
construe the instrument, we might consider that th6 limitations referred to in the contract restricted the liability of the
carrier to his own line. This result, however, is rendered
impossible in view of the statute, not because from its provisions a liability is imposed, but because of the failure of the
contract to conform to the requisites of the statute. Such
was the exact condition in the 'Patterson case, suvpra, for it
cannot be doubted that if in that case there had been no
statute requiring the signature of the shipper to a contract
limiting liability, a contract not signed by the shipper containing an exemption would have been efficacious. But, as
the statute required the signature, the contract, unsigned by
the shipper, was ineffective to relieve the carrier from a liability stipulated .against, it is true, but which was inoperative
because not expressed in legal form. Such is, in substance,
the situation here presented.
:Mm.

JusTIcE

HARLAN dissented.

WEST COMPANY v. LEA.
CERTIFICATE FROM

THE

CIRCUIT

COURT

OF

APPEALS

FOR

THE

FOURTH CIRCUIT.
No. 755. Submitted May 1, 1899.-Decided May 22,1899.

As a deed of general assignment for the benefit of creditors is made by the
bankruptcy act alone sufficient to justify an adjudication in involuntary
bankruptcy against the debtor making such deed, without reference to
his solvency at the time of the filing of the petition, the denial of Insolvency by way of defence to a petition based upon the making of a deed
of general assignment is not warranted by the bankruptcy law.

