AUTEN v. UNITED STATES N ATIONAL BANK.

125

Syllabus.

ples of law applicable to all alike, that equality of right given
by the law of the land to all suitors, and consequently it
should be adjudged to deny the equal protection of the laws.
I dissent from the opinion and judgment.

AUTEN v,. UNITED STATES NATIONAL BANK OF
NEW YORK.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.
'o. 206. Argued.March 9, 1899. -Dedea April 24, 1899.

In June, 1892, the United States National Bank of New York, by letter, solicited the business of the First National Bank of Little Rock, Arkansas.
The latter, through its president, accepted the proposition, and opened
business, by enclosing for discount, notes to a large amount. This business continued for some months, the discounted notes being taken up as
maturing, until the Arkansas bank suspended payment, and went into
the hands of a receiver. At that time the New York bank held notes
to a large amount, which it had acquired by discounting them from the
Arkansas bank. These notes have been duly protested for non-payment,
and the payment of the fees of protest, made by the New York bank,
have been charged to the Arkansas bank in account. The receiver refused to pay or allow them. At the time of the failure of the Arkansas
bank there was a slight balance due it from the New York bank, which
the latter credited to it on account of the sum which was claimed to be
due on the notes after the refusal of the receiver to allow them. The
New York bank commenced this suit against the receiver, to recover the
balance which it claimed was due to it. The receiver denied all liability
and asked judgment in his favor for the small balance in the hands
of the New York bank. It was also set up that the notes discounted by
the New York bank were not for the benefit of the Arkansas bank, but
for the benefit of its president, and that the New York bank was charged
with notice of this. The judgment of the trial court, which was affirmed
by the Circuit Court of Appeals, was for the full amount of the notes,
less the set-off. In this court motion was made to dismiss the writ of
error on the ground that jurisdiction below depended on diversity of
citizenship, and hence was final. Held:
(i) That the receiver, being an officer of the United States, the action
against him was one arising under the laws of the United States,
and this court had jurisdiction;

OCTOBER TERMr, 1898.
Siatement of the Case.
(2) That it was competent for the directors of the Arkansas bank to
empower the president, or cashier, or both to indorse the paper
of the bank, and that, under the circumstances, the New York
bank was justified in assuming that the dealings with It were
authorized, and were executed as authorized;
(3) That the set-off having been allowed by the New York bank in
account, the receiver was eititled to no other relief.

Two of the parties to this action in the court below were
national banks, one located at New York, the other located at
Little Rock, Arkansas. Sterling R. Cockrill, as receiver of the
latter bank, was also a party. He resigned and plaintiff in
error was appointed. The banks will be denominated respec-tively the New York bank and the Little Rock bank.
The complaint contained the necessary jurisdictional allegations, and that on December 7, 1892, the City Electric Street
Railway Company, a corporation organized and doing business
under the laws of Arkansas, in the city.of Little Rock, Arkansas, executed and delivered to G. R. Brown and H. G. Allis,
citizen§ of the State of Missouri, its three promissory notes,
each for five thousand dollars, payable four months after date,

with interest at the rate of ten per cent per annum from
maturity until paid: that said Brown and Allis afterwards indorsed and delivered said notes to the defendant First National
Bank, and said bank before maturity and for a valuable consideration indorsed, rediscounted and delivered said notes to
plaintiff: that ou December 7, 1892, the McCarthy & Joyce
Company, a corporation resident in the city of Little Rock,
Pulaski County, Arkansas, and organized and doing business
-under the laws of Arkansas, executed and delivered to James
Joyce, a citizen of the State of Missouri, its two promissory
notes, each for five thousand dollars, payable to his order at
four and five months respectively after date, with interest from
maturity at the rate of ten per cent per annum until paid:
that said Joyce afterwards indorsed said notes to the defendant
First National Bank, and said bank before maturity and for'
a valuable consideration indorsed, rediscounted and delivered
said notes to plaintiff : that said notes were each at maturity
presented at the First National Bank in Little Rock, Arkansas,

AUTEN v. UNITED STATES NATIONAL BANK.

127

Statement of the Case.

for payment, and payment being refused, they were each duly
protested for non-payment, the fees for which, amounting to
twenty-five dollars, were paid by plaintiff. Copies of said notes,
with the indorsements thereon, were thereto attached, marked
1 to 5 inclusive, and made part thereof. No part of said notes
has been paid, and the same have been presented to the receiver of said bank for allowance, which he has refused to do.
Judgment was prayed for the debt and other relief.
Three of said-notes are in the following form:
LrrTLE RocK, AiE., Dec. 7, 1892.
"$5000.
34131.
Four months after date we, or either of us, promise to pay
to the order of G. R. Brown and H. G. Allis five thousand
dollars, for value received, negotiable and payable, without
defalcation or discount, at the First National Bank of Little
Rock, Arkansas, with interest from maturity, at the rate of
ten per cent per annum, until paid.
CITY ELECTRIo ST. R'Y Co.
H. G. BRADFORD, P't.
W. 1=. SUTTON, Sec'y.
No. A, 73485. Due Apr. 1-10,'93."
The following indorsement appears on each: "Geo. R.
Brown, H. G. Allis, First National Bank, Little Rock, Arkansas; H. G. Allis, P't.
Two of the notes were in the following form:

"$5000.

34128.
LrrrLE ROCK, Aim., Dec. 7, 1892.
Four months after date we, or either of us, promise to pay
to the order of James Joyce five thousand dollars, for value
received, negotiable and payable, without defalcation or discount, at the First National Bank of Little Rock, Arkansas,
with interest from maturity, at the rate of ten per cent per
MCCARTHY & JOYCE Co.
annum, until paid.

A, 73477.

No. 2.

GEO. MANDLinAum, Sec'y & Treas.
Due Ap'l 7-10, '93."

They were indorsed as follows: "James Joyce, H. G. Allis,
First National Bank, Little Rock, Ar.; H. G. Allis, P't.,'

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

The receiver only answered, and his answer as finally
amended denied that either of the notes described in the
plaintiff's complaint was ever indorsed and delivered to the
First National Bank; he denied that either of said notes was
ever the property of or in the possession of said bank; and
denied that the said bank ever indorsed or delivered either of
said notes to the plaintiff; he denied that said bank ever
received any consideration from said plaintiff for any indorsement or -delivery of sad notes to it; and averred that- the
name of the defendant bank was indorsed on said notes by
H. G. Allis for his personal benefit without authority from said
bank; that the said Allis, assuming to act for defendant bank,
procured the plaintiff to advance or loan upon said notes a
large sum of money, which he appropriated to his own use;
that said Allis had no authority from said bank to -negotiate
said loan or to act for it in any way in said transaction; that
if said transaction created an indebtedness against the defendant bank, then the total liability of said defendant bank to the
plaintiff by virtue thereof exceeded one tenth of the plaintiff's
capital stock, and the total liability of the defendant bank
thereby exceeded the amount of its capital stock actually paid
in; that the plaintiff knowingly permitted its officers to make
such excessive loan under the circumstances aforesaid; that
the transaction aforesaid was not in the usual course of banking business which either the plaintiff or the defendant bank
was authorized to carry on; that the plaintiff was not an innocent holder of either of said notes; .that the defendant banl
received no benefit from said transaction; that it had no
knowledge thereof until a few days prior to its suspension;
that no notice of the dishonor of said notes was ever given
to the defendant bank. Also that at the date of the suspension of the First National Bank the United States National
Bank was indebted to it in the sum of $467.86, that sum then
being'on deposit in the said United States National Bank to
the credit of the First National Bank of Little Rock; and
that the same has never been paid.
The receiver prayed that "he be discharged from all liability upon the notes sued on herein, and that he have judg-

AUTEN v. UNITED STATES NATIONAL BANK.

129

Statement of the Case.

ment against the plaintiff for the said sum of $467.86, and
interest from the 1st day of February, 1893."
The plaintiff bank denied the indebtedness of $467.86, and
averred "that at the time said First National Bank failed it was
indebted to plaintiff in a large amount, to wit, the notes sued
upon herein, and plaintiff applied said $467.86 as a credit upon
said indebtedness."
The issues thus made up were brought to trial before a jury.
Upon the conclusion of the testimony the court, at the request
of the plaintiff bank, instructed the jury to find a verdict for
it, which the court did, and denied certain instructions requested by the defendant. The jury found for the plaintiff,
as instructed, for the full amount of the notes sued, less the
amount of the set-off, and judgment was entered in accordance

therewith.
A writ of error was sued out to the Circuit Court of Appeals,
which affirmed the judgment, and the case was brought here.
There had been two other trials, the rulings in which and
the action of the Circuit Court of Appeals, are reported in 27
U. S. App. 605, and 49 U. S. App. 67.
The defendant assigned as error the action of the Circuit
Court in instructing the jury to find for the plaintiff bank and
in refusing the instructions requested by the defendant. The
latter were nineteen in number, and presented every aspect of
the defendant's defence and contentions. They are necessarily
involved in the consideration of the peremptory instruction
of the court, and their explicit statement is therefore not
necessary.
The evidence shows that the New York bank solicited the
business of the Little Rock bank by a letter written by its
second assistant cashier, directed to the cashier of the Little
Rock bank, and dated June 21, 1892.
Among other things the letter stated "If you will send on
$50,000 of your good, short-time, well-rated bills receivable,
we will be pleased to place them to your credit at 41 per cent."
The reply from the Little Rock bank came not from its
cashier, but from its president, H. G. Allis, who accepted the
offer and enclosed notes amounting to $50,728, among which
VOL. COLLXI-9

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

were three of the City Electric Railway Company, the maker
of three of the notes in controversy. When first forwarded
they were not indorsed, and had to be returned for indorsement. They were indorsed, and the letter returning them was
signed by Allis. To the letter forwarding them the New York
bank replied as follows:
"N1Ew YoRK, June 27, 1892.

H. G. Allis, Esq., President, Little Rock, Ark.
DEAR Sm: We have this day discounted the following notes
contained in favor of the 24th ilist., and proceeds of same
placed to your credit."
The notes were enumerated, their amounts calculated and
footed up and discount at 4 per cent deducted, and the proceeds, amounting to $50,216.48, placed to the credit of the
Little Rock bank.
On July' 6, 1892, the following telegrams were exchanged:
"New York, Ju 6, 1892.
First National Bank, Little Rook, Ark.:
Will give you additional fifty thousand on short-time, wellrated bills discounted at five per cent. Money rates are little
firmer. Answer if wanted.
U. S. NAT. B rx."
" LriTLE RoaK, An m, July 6, 1892.
United States Nat. Bank, N.Y.:
We can use fifty thousand dollars additional at five per
cent; will send bills to-morrow.
FmsT NAT. Bi--x."
In accordance with the proposition thus made and accepted,
H. G. Allis, as president, wrote on the 9th of July, 1892, to
the New York bank a letter, enclosing what he denominated
"prime paper, amounting to $50,301.88," and requested proceeds to be placed "to our credit and advise." These notes
discounted and acknowledged. Their proceeds, less discount, amounted to $49,641.68.
On July 26, 1892, the New York bank telegraphed:

-were

AUTEN v. UNITED STATES NATIONAL BANK.

131

Statement of the Case.

"cNWYoRK, July 26, 1892.
First National Bank, Little Rock, Ark.:
Can take fifty thousand more of your well-rated bills discounted at five per cent.
U. S. NAT. BAm."
To this H. G. Allis, as president, answered as follows:
"LrrrLs Rocx, Aim., July 29, 1892.
United States National Bank, New York city.
GENTL-Em: Your telegram of the 26th, saying you could
take $50,000 more short-time, well-rated paper, I placed before
our board to-day.
While it is two weeks earlier than we need it, on account
of the rate we will take it now, and I enclose herein paper
as listed below; amount, $50,089.93.
Yours very truly,
H. G. ALLIs, President.
We hold collaterals subject to your order; see (pencil) noH. G. ALLIs, Pr."
tations on paper for rating.
In the list of notes were two by the City Electric Street
Railway Company and two by the McCarthy & Joyce Co.,
who were the makers of two of the notes in controversy.
There was one by N. Kupferle for $5000, "due Nov. 8, 1892."
The significance of this will be stated hereafter.
These notes were discounted and the fact communicated to
H. G. Allis, Esq., president, Little Rock, Ark.
The next letter contains notes for discount from the Little
Rock bank, sent by its cashier, W. C. Denney. The proceeds
amounted to $24,413.05, acknowledgment of which was made.
The next commtinication was about the notes in controversy. It was dated November 25, 1892, and was signed by
W. C. Denney, cashier. The letter, however, enclosing the
notes was sent by H. G. Allis, as president. The correspondence is as follows:
"The First National Bank of Little Rock, Ark.
Nov. 25, 1892.
United States National Bank, New York city.
GENTLMEN: Kindly advise us if you can give us $25,000

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

more in discounts. We have not decided whether we will make
further discounts this year, although it is more than probable
that we will have to, as our cotton men do not want to sell at
present.
We believe the advance in price will cover shortage of crop,
and that our collections will be equal to those of last year.
If our cotton men continue to hold their cotton, it will be
necessary for us to make further rediscounts, and we want
to know what we can do in case they refuse to sell.
If you can grant us this favor, kindly let us know what
rate of interest you will want. Your immediate reply is
requested.
Yours very truly,
W. 0. DEN=, Ca8hier."
"NEw Yonx, Nov. 28, 1892.
Mr. W. C. Denney, Cashier, Little Rock, Ark.
DrAm Sm: Yours of the 25th is to hand.
We will give you the additional discounts as requested.
You may send on your paper, and we will put same to your
credit at 6 %.

Yours very truly,

H. C. Hopxns, Ca8hier."

" LrrTLE ROOK, ARx., Dec. 13, 1892.
United States Nat.Bank, New York city.
GENTLmmEN: In accordance with our letter of the 25th ult.,
and your reply of the 28th ult., we find that we shall need
some more money, as our cotton men are not shipping oht
any cotton. It seems to be the inclination of all of them to
hold for a better price, and we are now carrying $175,000 in
demand loans on cotton,, which we may have to carry two
or three months longer.
We enclose herein paper as scheduled below. Kindly wire
us proceeds to our credit, and oblige,
Yours, very truly,
H. G. ALs, PTeaident.
Dickenson Hardware Co., due March 3 .......... $2,500 00
Dickenson Hardware Co., due April 6 ...........
5,000 00
City Electric St. R'y Co., due April 10 ..........
5,000 00

rarriedforward,

$12,500 00

AUT-EN v. UNITED STATES NATIONAL BANK.

133

Statement of the Case.

Broughtforward,
$12,500 00
5,000 00
City Electric St. R'y Co., due April 10 ..........
City Electric St. R'y Co., due April 10 ..........

5,000 00

McCarthy & Joyce Co., due May 10 .............
McCarthy & Joyce Co., due April 10 ...........

5,000 00
5,000 00
z
$32,500 00
We hold all collaterals recited subjected to your order and
for your account."
"KNw YoRx, Dec. 16, 1892.
H. G. Allis, Esq., Pres't, Little Rock, Ark.
DEAR SIR: We have this day discounted the following notes
contained in your favor of the 13th inst., and proceeds of same
placed to your credit:
Dickenson ]:Pware Co., due M'ch 3, '93.
Do.
do.
City Electric St. R'y Co.
"

Do.
do.
McCarthy & Joyce Co.
Do.

do.

"
"

$2,500 disc't $32 08

Ap'l 6, '93.
" 10,

.

"

10,

.

"

0,

5,000

10,
May 10,

5,000
5,000

"

Amount of notes ....................
Less discount at 6% ..................
Proceeds .....................

5,000
5,000
5,000

"
"

"
"
"
"

92 50
95 83
95 83

95 83
95 83
120 83

$32,500
628 73
$31,871 27

We enclose herewith note of Dickenson Hardware Co.
$5000 due Ap'l 6th for insertion of amount in body' and
return to us.
Yours truly,
JNo. J. MCAuLiFFE,
IA88t Cashier."

"NEw Yor, December 17, 1892.
First National Bank, Little Rock, Arkansas:
Letter thirteenreceived notes discounted proceeds credited
account.
UNrrsn STATEs NATioNAL. B~Ax."

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

"The First National Bank of Little Rock, Ark.
Dec. 20, 1892.
United States National Bank, New York city.
GENTLEMEN: We have your favor of the 16th inst., enclosing the Dickenson Hardware Company note for completion,
which wi herewith return.
We charge your account with $31,871.27, proceeds of
$32,500.00 of discounts.
Yours. very truly,
W. 0. D TNEY, Val&ier."
In the subsequent correspondence Allis takes part but once,
and sent the following telegram December 21, 1892:
"€Lrrrn ROcK, Au ., Dec. 21, 1892.

N.Y.:
U. S. Nat'l Bank,
Can you discount thirty thougand country banks' paper
secured by cotton thirty days no renewal desire to carry
over holidays answer day message?
H. G. ALLIs, Pre8ident."
Henry C. Hopkins, cashier of the New York bank, was
called as a witness in its behalf, and after explaining the
letters and telegrams which were sent by the banks, and the
transactions which they detailed, testified that the dealings
between the banks were such as take place between banks
carrying on legitimate banking business, in the usual course
of business, and that the notes were not discounted in any
other way, and that the bank had no notice or intimation
that the notes had not been regularly received by the First
National Bank or offered by it in the regular course of
business or for the benefit of any person other than the
bank or interested in the proceeds, and that the United States
National Bank in its correspondence and dealings did not
recognize H. G. Allis, W. 0. Denney or S. S. Smith personally
or in any capacity than as representing the First National
Bank; and that the transactions were solely with the First
National Bank; and that the correspondence and transactions
were usual for the president and cashier of a United States

A1UTEN v. UNITED STATES NATIONAL BANK.

135

Statement of the Case.

national bank to carry on; and that the proceeds of the
various discounted notes were withdrawn by the Little Rock
bank in the regular course of business by its officers.
There was a detailed statement of the transactions between
the banks attached to Hopkins' depbsition which is not in the
record, but instead thereof there appbars the .following:
"The account current here referred to began June 27, 1892,
and continued until the suspension of business of the First
National Bank. It shows almost daily entries of debit and
credit. It shows that the several notes discounted by the
United States National Bank and referred to in the depositions of the officers of that bank, being forty-nine in number,
were charged against the account of the First National Bank
by the United States National Bank at the several dates of
their maturity. In two thirds of the instances where such
charges were made the balance to the credit of the First
National Bank on the books of the United States National
Bank was sufficient to cover the charge. In other instances
the balance to the credit of the First National Bank was insufficient to meet the charge at the time- of the entry, and in
the other instances the account of the First National Bank
was in overdraft as shown by the books of the United States
National Bank at the time the charge was made.
"The account shows that at the time of the suspension of
the First National Bank the latter bank had a credit of
$467.86 upon the books of the United States National Bank.
Against this balance the notes in suit with protest fees were
charged on the account April 17 and May 15, 1893, making
the account show a balance in favor 'of the United States
National Bank of $24,558.03.
"This is the paper marked '77' referred to in the depositions of Henry 0. Hopkins, James H. Parker, Joseph W.
Harriman and John J. McAuliffe, hereto annexed."
The record also shows that "J. H. Parker, president, Joseph
W. Harriman, second assistant cashier, and John J. McAuliffe,
assistant cashier, each testified to identically the same facts
in the identical language as Henry 0. Hopkins, and it is agreed
that the depositions of Hopkins shall be treated as the deposi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

tion of each of the said witnesses without the necessity of
copying the deposition of each witness."
There was proof made of the protest of the notes.
There was testimony on the part of the plaintiff showing
that it was the custom of the banks at Little Rock to rediscount through their presidents and cashiers until after a decision in the National Bank case of Cincinnati in January,
1893; after that it was done by resolution of the board of
directors, and the banks of New York and other commercial
cities commonly require that now.
By a witness who was cashier of the Little Rock bank from
November, 1890, to October, 1891, Allis then being president,
it was shown that it was the custom of the bank as to rediscounting notes for the cashier or assistant cashier to refer
them to the president, and the president generally directed
what amount and where to send them. Whether they were
referred to the board of directors, the witness was unable to
say.
On cross-examination the witness testified that when the
discounts were determined on, the cashier or assistant cashier
transacted the business. He, however, only remembered sending off one lot of discdunts, Mr. Denney, the assistant cashier,
usually carrying on the correspondence. He did not remember
that the president ever did anything of that kind. "Either Mr.
Denney or I would say to him that something of the kind was
needed, and he would direct the quantity and what correspondents usually to send to."
There were introduced in evidence "the reports or statements by the bank to the Comptroller of the Currency, showing the rediscounts and business of the bank, of date May 17,
1892, and July 12, 1892, as follows:' The report of May 17
was sworn to by W. C. Denney, cashier, and attested by James
Joyce, E. J. Butler' and H. G' Allis, directors, and showed
' notes and bills rediscounted, $16,132.40.' The report of July
12 was sworn to by H. G. Allis, president, and attested by
Charles T. Abeles, E. J. Butler and John W. Goodwin, directors, and showed notes and bills rediscounted, $81,' 48.80."
The'testimony on the part of the plaintiff in error showed

AUTEN v. UNITED STATES NATIONAL BANK.

137

Statement of the Case.

(we quote from brief of defendant in error) that "the notes
never belonged to the First National Bank; that the three
notes of the Electric Street Railway Company were executed
to Brown and Allis for accommodation of Allis, and the two
notes of McCarthy & Joyce Company were executed and delivered to Allis for the purpose of raising money for the company to be placed to its credit with the First lNational Bank,
to which McCarthy & Joyce Company was indebted; that
neither of the notes was ever passed upon by the discount
board of the bank or appeared on the books of the bank; that
after the bank was notified that the notes had been discounted
and placed to its credit, Allis .directed the proceeds of the
notes ($25,000) to be placed to his credit on the books of
the baik, at which time there was an overdraft against him of
$10,679.44; that Allis was at that time indebted to the Little
Rock bank on individual notes for at least $50,000, and was
continuously thereafter indebted to the bank until its failure."
As to the power of the president to direct rediscounts or to
indorse the notes of the bank, E. J. Butler, N. Kupferle and
C. T. Abeles, who were directors of the bank at' the time of
the transactions between it and the New York bank, testified
respectively as follows:
"(Butler): Was a pretty regular attendant at the board meetings during the year-at nearly'all the meetings.
"Q. Did Mr. Allis have authority to discount notes for the
bank or to rediscount them?
"A. Never that I knew of. I knew that when Colonel
Roots was president he asked and received authority from
the board to make rediscounts, but I do not know that Mr.
Allis ever asked, and the board, when I was present- he
never was given any authority to make rediscounts. for the
bank.
"Q. Did he have authority from the bank to indorse its
papers for rediscount?
"A. No, sir; never that I was aware of."
On cross-examination he testified that he did not recollect of
Allis asking for authority; that the question never came before the board as to discounts. He knew that there were dis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

counts made, but did not recollect any particular ones, but in
case there were he would suppose they were on the authority
of the board, given in his absence, but did not remember that
the question was brought up at all.
"Q. There are a couple of statements made by the bank
(being the statements heretofore introduced by the plaintiff)
of May 17, 1892, and July 12, 1892, to which you as a
director certify, which show, one of May 17 shows rediscounts, $16,172.40, and the one of July 12, 1892, shows redisiounts, $81,748.88. Did you sign these?
"A. I couldn't say without referring to the original
reports.
"Q. These are the published reports, are they not?
"A. They purport to be the published report, but I do not
know anything about it. I was one of the directors at that
time.
"Q. That is one of the usual forms of the reports published
in the papers, isn't it?
," A. Yes, sir.

".Q. You now tell the jury that you do not know anything
about the extent of rediscounts made by it?
"A. No, sir; I can hot remember."
Mr. Denney was cashier in 1892, and he supposed that
Denney transacted the business as to indorsements and rediscounting, but did not know and did not recollect that Allis
did. Did not hear of him indorsing the notes in suit until
after the bank failed.
"(Kupferle): Mr. Allis did not have the power from the
board of directors of the bank to indorse its papers for
rediscount.
"Cross-examination: There was nothing said in the board
about such power. The question was not brought before the
board. The bank during that time rediscounted paper. The
cashier generally attended to that. I knew that the bank was
discounting paper. I recall once where the president requested
of the board that the bank should borrow some money. That
.was in the fall of 1892. I knew that the bank had been discounting paper long before that and borrowing money before

AWTEN v. UNITED STATES NATIONAL BANK. 139
Statement of the Case.

that, and no authority had been asked of the board to d6 it.
I knew that they were borrowing money and rediscounting
paper continually.
"Redirect: We had eleven or thirteen members of -the
board of directors; I forget which. Never less than eight or
nine. There was seldom a meeting when all were presenta majority present.
"Q. Did they at any time rediscount, or authorize the rediscounting of paper? Did they have that authority?
"A. No, sir; that was not their business.
"Q. Theirs was to discount paper for customers of the
banks?
"A. The daily offerings, yes, sir."
Did not know of Mr. Allis indorsing the name of the bank
upon the paper for the purpose of rediscounting it.
"Q. Did you, as a member of the board-of directors, or
otherwise, have any information that Mr. Allis was using
the name of the bank upon his or other people's paper, for
accommodation?
"A. No, sir; I never did.
"Cross-examination:
"Q. You didn't know he was using the name of the bank
on the bank's paper?
"A. No, sir.
"Q. You knew he was discounting paper?
"A. No, sir; it was not his place.
"Q. Didn't the correspondence there sh6w he was sending
the paper for discount all over the country?
"A. No, sir; I don't know anything about that.
"Q. Wasn't it your business to know it?
"A. I do not know.
"Q. You was vice president and one of the directors?
"A. Yes, sir.. I never knew anything about it until the
failure of the bank - that he ever used the bank's name."
"( Abeles): Not while I was there (at the meetings of the
board) was authority given to Allis as president to indorse or
rediscount the notes of the bank. I do not think it was ever
mentioned. I knew of the bank rediscounting paper, and

OCTOBER TERMf, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

somebody was transacting that part of the business. I think
I inquired of some of the directors who it was, and was told
that the authority vested in the cashier. I do not recollect
that I inquired of Allis or Denney."
"[Cohn] was not a director in 1892 - was for "ten years
prior to that time, and Allis was president in 1891, but did
not recollect that he had authority from the board to indorse
its paper or to rediscount it.
"Cross-examination: Knew that rediscounting was being
done, but supposed it was being done by the cashier -didn't
stop to inquire.
"Redirect:
"Q. Who was authorized in the bank to perform that
duty?
"A. I understood the cashier.
"Cross-examination :
"Q. How was he authorized?
"A. By law.
"Q. You are simply giving your legal opinion?
"A. Well, I understood that was his authority."
Other facts are stated in the opinion of the court.
Upon filing the record the defendant in error made a
motion to dismiss, which was postponed to the consideration
of the merits.
.-Yr. Sterling R. Gockrill for plaintiff in error.
.Mr. John Fletoker for defendant in error. .Xr. TT C. Ratcliffe was on his brief.

:MR.

JUsTICE MOKENNA,

after making the above statement,

*delivered the opinion of the court.
1. To sustain the motion to dismiss, it is contended that the
jurisdiction of the case depends on diversity of citizenship, and
hence that the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
.fifial. But one of the defendants (plaintiff in error), though
a citizen of a different State from the plaintiff in the action

AUTEN v. UNITED STATES NATIONAL BANK.

141

Opinion of the Court.'

(defendant in error), is also a receiver of a national bank appointed by the Comptroller of the Currency and is an officer
of the tnited States, and an action against him is one arising
under the laws of the United States. Zennedy v. Crihson, 8
Wall. 498; In re Ohetwood, 165 U. S. 443; Sonnentheit v.
Christian JAoerlein Brewing Co., 172 U. S. 401. It is, however, urged that such appointment was not shown. It was
not explicitly alleged, but we think that it sufficiently appeared, and the motion to dismiss is denied.
2. Against the correctness of the action of the Circuit Court
in instructing a verdict for the New York bank, it is urged that
the discounting of the notes in controversy was for the personal benefit of Allis, and that the New York bank was
charged with notice of it because of the nature of the transaction; the form of the notes and the order of the indorse"ments, and ailso because notice was a question of fact to be
decided by the jury on the evidence.
It is also contended that the receiver.was entitled to a
judgment on the set-off. We will examine each of the
propositions.
1. The argument to sustain this is that the facts detailed
constitute borrowing money, and that borrowing is out of
the usual course of legitimate banking business; and one who
loans must at his peril see that the officer or agent who offers
to borrow for a bank has special authority to do so. But
is borrowing out of the usual course of legitimate banking
business?
Banking in much, if not in the greater part of its practice,
is in strict sense borrowing, and we may well hesitate to condemn it as illegitimate, or regard it as out of the course of
regular. business, and hence suspicious and questionable. "A
bank," says Morse, (see. 2, Banks and Banking,) "is an institution usually incorporated with power to issue its promissory
notes intended to circulate as money (kmown as bank notes);
or to receive the money of others on general deposit to form
a joint fund that shall be used by the ipstitution for it8 own
beneft, for one or more of the purposes of making temporary
loans and discounts.; of dealing in notes, foreign and domestic

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

bills of exchange, coin, bullion, credits and the remission of
money; or with both these powers, and with the privileges
in addition- to these basic powers, of receiving special deposits
.and making collections for the holders of negotiable. paper, if
the institution sees fit to engage in such business."
This defines the functions: what relations are created by
them? Manifestly those of debtor and creditor -the bank
being as often the one as the other.
A banker, Macleod says, is a trader who buys money, or
money and debts, by creating other debts, which he does
with his credit -exchanging for a debt payable in the future
one payable on demand. This, he says, is the essential definition of banking. "The first business of a banker is not to
lend money to others but to collect money from others."
(Macleod on Banking, vol. 1, 2d ed. pp. 109, 110.) And Gilbart defines a banker to be " a dealer in capital, or, more properly a dealer in money. He is an intermediate party between
the borrower and the lender. IHe borrows of one party and
lends to another." (Gilbart on Banking, vol. 1, p. 2.)
The very first banking in England was pure borrowing. It
consisted in receiving money in exchange for which promissory notes were given payable to bearer on demand, and so
essentially was this banking as then understood, that the
monopoly given to the Bank of England was secured by
prohibiting any partnership of more than six persons "to
borrow, owe or take up any sum or sums of money on their
bills or notes payable at demand." And it had effect until
1-72, (about thirty years,) when the monopoly was evaded by
the introduction of the deposit system. The relations created
are the same as those created by the issue of notes. In both a
debt is created -the evidence only is different. In one ca~e
it is a credit on the banker's books; in the other his written
promise to pay. In the one case he discharges it by paying
the orders (cheques) of his creditor; in the other by redeeming
his promises. These are the only differences. There may be
others of advantage and ultimate effect, but with them we
are not concerned.
But it may be said these views are elementary and do not

AUTEN v. UNITED STATES NATIONAL BANK.

143

Opinion of the Court.

help to a solution of the question presented by the record,
which is not what relation a bank has or what power its officers may be considered as having in its transactions with the
general public, but what is its relation and what power its
officers may be considered as having in its transactions with
other banks. Indeed, the question may be even narrowernot one of power, but one of evidence. If so, the views expressed are pertinent. They show the basis of credit upon
which banks rest, and the necessity of having power to support it; it may be to extend it. Borrowing is borrowing, no
matter from whom. Discounting bills and notes may require
rediscounting them; buying bills and notes may require selling them again. Money may not be equally distributed. It is
a bank's function to correct the inequality. The very object
of banking is to aid the operation of the laws of commerce by
serving as a channel for carrying money from place to place,,
as the rise and fall of supply and demand require, and it may
be done by rediscounting the bank's paper or by some other
form of borrowing. Curtis v. Zeavitt, 15 N. Y. 1; FirstIvationa2 Bank v. NTationalExchange Bank, 92 U. S. 122; Cooper
v. Curtis, 30 Maine, 488.
A power so useful cannot be said to be illegitimate, and
declared as a matter of law to be out of the usual course of
business, and to charge everybody connected with it with
knowledge 'that it may be in excess of authority. It would
seem, if doubtful at all, more like a question of fact, to be
resolved in the particular case by the usage of the parties or
the usage of communities.
It is claimed, however, that Western NfationaZ Bank v.
Armstrong, 152 U. S. 346, establishes the contrary, and decides the proposition contended for by tbhe plaintiff in error.
We do not think it does. Some of its language may seem to
do so, but it was used in suggestion of a question Which might
be raised on the facts of the case, without intending to authoritatively decide it. The facts of that case are different from
the facts of the pending one, and in response to its citation
we might rest on the difference. But plaintiff in error urges
the case so earnestly and confidently that we have considered

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion. of the Court.

it better to answer the argument on which it is asserted to
be based and remove misapprehension of the extent of the
decision.
2. Did the form of the notes or the order of indorsements
charge the New York bank with inquiry of Allis' authority
or with knowledge of his use of them for his personal benefit?
It may be conceded that an individual negotiating for the
purchase of a bill or note from one having it in possession,
and whose name is upon it, must assume that the ,title of the
holder, as well as the liability of all prior parties, is precisely
that indicated by the paper itself. These principles are established by West St. L-ouis Savings Bank v. Shawnee County
Bank, 95 U. S. 557; Central Bank of Brooklyn. v. Hammett
et al., 50 N. Y. 158; New York Iron Mine v. Hegaunee Bank,
'39 Michigan, 644; Zee v. Smith, 84 Missouri, 301; Park Hotel
Co. v. Fourth -NationalBank, 86 Fed. Rep. 742; Claftin v.
Farmers' & Citizens' Bank, 25 N. Y. 293.
But it is not meant-that circumstailces may not explain the
notes or may not relieve the taker from the obligation of
inquiry. If the order of indorsements and Allis' official position and his relation to the notes were circumstances to be
considered, they were not necessarily controlling against all
other circumstances, and compelled inquiry as a peremptory
requirement of law.
3. In judging of the conduct and rights of the New York
bank the question is not what actual authority Allis had, but
what appearance of authority he had, or, rather, wlat appearance of authority he was given or permitted by the directors.
In the inquiry there is involved the two preceding propositions as questions of fact, or of mixed law and fact. The first
-

the power of a bank to rediscount its paper -as

to what

the course of dealing of the contending banks was; the
second - the form of the notes and their order of indorsements as notice - whether relieved by the circumstances
which attended them and the transactions which preceded
-them.
The evidence shows that it was not only the custom of
the defendant bank to rediscount its paper, but that it was

AUTEN v.' UNITED STATES NATIONAL BANK.

145

Opinion- of the Court.

the custom of the other banks at Little Rock. to do so, and
the officers of the New York bank testified as follows:
"Q. Were there any of the dealings between said baiks
(the parties to this action) other than such as take place between banks carrying on a legitimate banking business, in the
usual course of business?
"A. No.
"Q. Were the correspondence and transactions carried on
by H. G. Allis and W. 0. Denney, as you have disclosed, such
as are usual for the president and cashier of a United States
national bank to carry on and exercise?
"cA. Yes."
This testimony certainly has very comprehensive scope, and
there is no contradiction of it. It must be received, at least,
as establishing that, as between the contending banks rediscounting paper was in the usual course of. their business, and
their respecthat besides it was the usual course of business in
tive localities. Therefore the discounting of the notes in controversy carried the sanction of such business.
It is contended that- the notes gave notice of the want of
authority to rediscount them because .the indorsement of the
bank followed that of Allis, and hence showed that the bank
was an accommodation indorser, and because the indorsement
of the bank was by its president and not by its cashier.
The order of indorsements did not necessarily import that
the Little Rock bank was an accommodation indorser. The
order was a natural one if the notes had been discounted in the"
regular course of business. It is not contended that a. want
of power precluded the bank from discounting the notes of
its officers. It had been done for one of the directors, and
his note was rediscounted by the New York bank. It had an
example therefore in the dealings of the parties, and, besides,
was neither wrong nor unnatural of itself. But it was further
relieved from question, and any challenge in the indorsements
was satisfied by the circumstances.
It is to be remembered that the discounting the notes in
controversy was not the only transaction between the banks.
It was one of many transactions of the same kind. They
VOL. CLXXIV-10

OCTOBER TER 11, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

justified confidence, and it was confirmed by the manner in
which the notes were presented. It is conceded that the
cashier had the power to rediscount the bank's paper, and it
was he who solicited the accommodation on account of which
the notes were sent to the New York bank. The notes themselves, it is true, were sent by Allis, but expressly on the part
of the bank, and subsequent correspondence about them was
conducted with the cashier, as we have seen. And there could
have been no misunderstanding. The letter of the New York
bank which the cashier of the Little Rock bank answered was
specific in the designation of the notes, their sum and the proceeds of the discount, and returned one of the notes not in
controversy to be corrected. To this the cashier replied:
'"Dec.20, 1892.
United States National Bank, New York city.
GENTTLEMEN: We have your favor of the 10th inst., enclosing the-Dickenson Hardware Company note for completion,
which we herewith return.
We charge your account with $31,871.27 proceeds of
$32,500.00 of discounts.
W. C. DENNEY, Cashier."
Yours very truly,
I&htice was therefore brought to him and to the bank of
the transaction and almost inevitably of its items. Was he
deceived as to the notes which had been sent? It is not
shown nor is it suggested how such deception was possible,
and'a presumption of ignorance cannot be entertained. Therefore, if the discounts he wrote about in his letter of the 20th
of December were not in pursuance of those he had requested
in his letter of November 25, he ought to have known and
ought to have so said. If he had so said, the New York bank
could have withdrawn the credit it had given, and Allis'
wrong could not have been committed.
The strength of these circumstances cannot be resisted.
Against them it would be extreme to say that the New York
bank was put to further inquiry. Of whom would it have
inquired? Not of Allis, the president of the Littlq Rock

AUTEN v. UNITED STATES NATIONAL BANK.

141t

Opinion of the Court.

bank, because his authority would have been -the subject of
inquiry. Then necessarily of the' cashier; but from' the
cashier it had already heard. He began the transaction; he
acknowledged its close, accepting the credit which had been
created for the bank of which he, according to the argument,
was the executive officer. We can discover no negligence .on
the part of the New York bank. The dealing with the notes
in controversy came to it with the sanction of prior dealings
with other notes. It was conducted with the same officers.
It was no more questionable. The relation of Allis to it, we
have seen, was not unnatural, and if the indorsement of other
notes was not shown to be by him, it was not shown not to
have been by him. The testimony of the officers of the New
York bank was that the notes were received and discounted
in the regular course of business, and in no way different
from the other notes discounted by it for the Little Rock
bank, and that they knew the notes were properly indorsed
by one of the duly authorized officers of the First National
Bank; but as the notes were not in their possession, they
were unable to state the name of the officer. The testimony
opposed to this, if it may be said to be opposed, is negative
and of no value. Some of the directors testified that Allis
did not have the power nor did they know of his having
indorsed the bank's paper for rediscount. They knew, however, that the bank's paper was rediscounting in large
amounts, and that money was borrowing continually, but
they scarcely made an inquiry, and one of them testified that
only in a single instance did Allis request the board for
power to borrow money. The instance is not identified,
except to say that it was in the fall of 1892. Of whom, in
what amount, whether the request was granted or denied,
what inquiry was made, what review of the business of the
bank was made, there was absolute silence about. They
surrendered the business absolutely to the president and
cashier, and intrusted the manner of the execution to them.
This court said by Mr. Justice Harlan, in .Hartin v. Mebb,
110 U. S. 7, 15.: "Directors cannot, in justice to those who"
deal with the bank, shut their eyes to what is going on

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

around them. It is their duty to use ordinary diligence in
ascertaining the condition of its business, and to exercise
reasonable control and supervision of its officers. They have
something more to do than from time to time to elect the
officers of the bank and to make declaration of dividends.
That which they ought by proper diligence to have known
as to the general course of business in the bank, they may be
presumed to have known in any contest between the corporation and those who are justified by the circumstances in
dealing with its officers upon the basis of that course of
business."
Under section 5136, Revised Statutes, it was competent for
the directors to empower the president or cashier, or both, to
indorse the paper of the bank, and, under the circumstances,
the New York bank was justified in assuming that the dealings with it were authorized and executed as authorized.
Brigge v. Spaulding, 141 U. S. 132; People's Bank v. National Bank, 101 U. S. 181; Davenpo.:t et al. v. Stone, 104: Michigan, 521; First National Bank of Kalamazoo v. Stone, 106
Michigan, 367; Houghton v. The First lrational Bank of
Elkhorn, 26 Wisconsin, 663; Thomas v. City National Bank
of Hastings, 40 Nebraska, 501.
4. Set-off is the discharge or reduction of one demand by
an opposite one. That of plaintiff in error was so applied
and the amount due on the notes reduced. He was entitled
to no other relief.
Scott v. Ar-mstrong, 146 U. S. 499, does not apply. In that
case it was held that a debtor of an insolvent national bank
could set off against his indebtedness to the bank, which
became payable after the bank's suspension, a claim payable
to him before the suspension. And it was further held that
the set-off was equitable, and therefore not available in a
common law action.
But in this case the plaintiff in error pleaded the set-off.
His right to do so was derived from the law of Arkansas, and
that law provided: "If the amount set off be equal to the
plaintiff's demand, the plaintiff shall recover nothing by his
action; if it be less than the plaintiff's demand, he shall have

UNITED STATES v. ONE DISTILLERY et al.

149

Opinion of the Court.

judgment for the residue only." Gould's Arkansas Digest of
Statutes, c. 159, § 5, p. 1020. The law was complied with.
It follows that the Circuit Court did not err in instructing
the jury to find for the plaintiff (defendant in error), and
judgment is
Affirmed.

UNITED STATES v. ONE DISTILLERY et aZ.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.
No. 190. Argued April 6,1899.-Decided April 24, 199.

There was no pro.of in this case to overcome the denials in the original answer, and to show that the property seized by the Collector of Internal
Revenue had been forfeited to the United States.

THE statement of the case will be found in the opinion of
the court.
Mr. A88istant Attorney General Boyd for plaintiffs in
error.
-Mr. Samuel G. Hilborn for defendants in error. -. r.
Frederic I. Hall filed a brief for same.

M _. JusTIcE HTAiRT

delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an information filed November 13, 1888, in the
District Court of the United States for the Southern District
of California to obtain a decree declaring that certain real arid
personal property which had been seized by a Collector ofInternal Revenue was forfeited to the United States.
The information was based upon sections 3257, 3281, 3305,
3453 and 3456 of the Revised Statutes.
The property in question once belonged to the Fruitvale
Wine and Fruit Compahy, a corporation of California. The
acts that were set forth as constituting the grounds of forfeit-

