OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Syllabus.

(88 Fed. Rep. 987.) The decree adjudged that as to the defendants the county of Scott and the city of Georgetown,
who were found not to have been either parties or privies
to the records and decrees constituting resjudicata,that no
irrevocable contract had been established, by judgment or
otherwise, and as to those defendants the bill was therefore
dismissed. From the decree thus entered both parties appealed
to this court.
31r. Ira Julian for Georgetown and Scott County.
Henry L. Stone for Louisville.

X.

.X&. Alexander Pope Elumphirey, r'. -Frank Chinn, -r.
James P. 1elm and -Yr.John IT Rodman for the banks.
MR. JUSTICE WHITE, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

The decree below, so far as it granted the relief prayed as
against the defendants other than the city of Georgetown
and the county of Scott, is affirmed by a divided court. The
decree, so far as it adjudicated against the complainant and in
favor of the defendants the city of Georgetown and the county
of Scott, those defendants not having been parties or privies
to the judgments pleaded as res judicata, must be affirmed
upon the authority of the decision in Citizens' Savings Bank
of Owensboro v. City of Owensboro and A. .X.C. Simmons,
Tax Collector, 173 U. S. 636.
And it is so ordered.
STONE v. BANK OF COMMERCE.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.
NO.862. Argued February 28, March 2, 1899.

Decided May 15,
1899.

Citizens' Savings Bank v. Owensboro, 173 U. S. 636, followed to the point
that in'the case of a bank whose charter was granted subsequently to
the year 1856, and which had accepted the provisions of the Hewitt Act,

STONE u. BAlNK OF COMMERCE.
Statement of the Case.
and had thereafter paid the tax specified therein, there was no irrepealable contract in favor of such bank that it should be thereafter and during its corporate existence taxed under the provisions of that act.
The agreement set forth In the statement of facts between the city of Louisville, the sinking fund commissioners of that city, represented by the
city attorney, and the various banks of that city acting by their attorneys, was not a valid agreement, within the power of an attorney at law
to make.
An attorney, in his capacity merely as such, has no power to make any agreement for his client before a suit has been commenced, or before he has
been retained to commence one; and if, under such circumstances, he
assumes to act for his principal, it must be as agent, and his actual
authority must appear.
An equitable estoppel which would prevent the State from exercising its
power to alter the rate of taxation in this case should be based upon the
clearest equity; and the payment of the money under the circumstances
of this case, not exceeding the amount really legally due for taxes, although disputed at the time, does not work such an equitable estoppel
as to prevent the assertion of the otherwise legal rights of the city.

THE bill in this case was filed in 1897 by the Bank of Commerce, a citizen and resident of the city of Louisville in the
State of Kentucky, for the purpose of obtaining an injunction
restraining the defendants from assessing the complainant and

from collecting or attempting to collect any taxes based upon
the assessmeit spoken of in the bill, and for a final decree

establishing the contract right of the complainant to be taxed
in the method prescribed by the act of May 11, 1886, known

as the Hewitt Act, the terms of which it alleged it had
accepted. The bill sought to perpetually enjoin the defendants from assessing the franchise or property of the complainant in any other manner than under that act. The material

provisions of the Hewitt Act are set out in the opinion of the
court, delivered by Mr. Justice White, in the case of the Citizen' /Savings Bank of Owensboro v. Owensboro, 173 U. S.
636.
In 1891 Kentucky adopted a new constitution, section 174
of which, providing for the taxation of all property in proportion to its value, is also set forth in the above-cited case.
The legislature of the State in 1892 passed an act in relation
to the taxation of banks- and other corporations which was in

conflict with the Hewitt Act, and provided for taxing the-

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

banks in a different manner from that act, and also subjected
the banks to local taxation, the total being much more onerous
than that enforced under the Hewitt Act.
The complainant was incorporated under an act of the
legislature of Kentucky approved February 10, 1865, and it
had all the powers granted by that act and the several amendments thereof as alleged in its bill.
There were various other banks in the city of Louisville
which also alleged that they had accepted the terms of the
Hewitt Act, and by reason thereof had a valid contract with
the State that they should be taxed only under the provisions
of that act.
The complainant alleges in its bill that early in the year
1894 a demand was made on the part of the defendant the
city of Louisville, based upon the act of 1892 and the ordinance adopted in pursuance thereof, for the payment of a
license tax equal to four per cent of its gross receipts into the
sinking fund of the city. The banks denied their liability to
pay any tax other than that provided in the ITewitt Act, and
hence arose the differences between the city and the banks.
No litigation had been commenced for the purpose of testing the questions at issue between the city and the banks,
although negotiations looking to that end had been in progress between the city attorney of Louisville and the members of the sinking fund board, on the one hand, and the
counsel for the various banks aid trust companies on the other.
There is set forth in the bill of the complainant the action
of the sinking fund board as follows:
"SiNxrNe FuND OFFInE, .Feb'y 13, 1894.

"A committee, consisting of Messrs. Thomas L. Barrett,
John H. Leathers and George W. Swearingen, appeared before the board on behalf of the banks who are members of
the Louisville clearing house, and stated that it was the purpose of said banks to resist the payment of the license fee
demanded of them under the license ordinance approved January 29, 1894, on the ground that said banks were not legally
liable to pay the same, but, in order to save the sinking fund

STONE v. BANK OF COMMERCE.
Statement of the Case.

from any embarrassment occasioned by their refusal to pay
said license fee, the banks, with two or three exceptions, were
willing to enter into an arrangement whereby they would pay
a part of the amount demanded of them and lend the sinking
fund the balance thereof, to be repaid, with interest at four
per centum per annum, if it was finally decided and adjudged
that the banks were not liable to pay said license fees.
"After discussion, the president was, on motion of Mr.
Tyler, seconded by Mr. Summers, authorized to enter into the
following arrangement with the different banks, trust and title
companies who will be subject to the payment of the license
fees if the license ordinance is finally adjudged to be valid and
enforceable:
"First. To accept from each of said banks and companies
a payment equal to the difference between the amount theynow pay to the State for state taxes and the amount they
would be required to pay for state taxes under the provisions
of what is known as the 'Hewitt bill.' This sum shall be an
actual payment, not to be repaid under any circumstances, but
its payment shall not in any manner or to any extent prejudice the banks or companies paying it or be taken as a waiver
of any legal right which they have in the premises.
"Second. In addition to making the above payments the
said banks and companies, save those selected to test the question involved, shall each lend to the sinking fund a sum which,
added to said payment, will equal four per centum of its gross
earnings during the year 1893, and the sinking fund will execute for said loans its obligations agreeing to repay the same,
with interest at four per centtim per annum, when and if it
shall be finally adjudged by the court of last resort that said
banks or companies are not liable to pay the license fee required by the ordinance aforesaid, but if it is finally, adjudged
that they are liable to pay said license fee, then the said loan
shall be taken and deemed as a payment of said license fee,
and the obligation to repay the same shall be void.
"Third. The banks or companies selected to test the question involved will each lend the sinking fund a sum equal to
four per centum of their gross earnings for the year 1893, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

will receive therefor the obligations of the sinking fund as
above described.
"Fourth. This arrangement is to be entered into with the
understanding that the said banks and companies will institute without delay and diligently prosecute such actions as
may be necessary to settle and adjudge the right and liabilities of the parties in the premises, and pending such proceed-ings the sinking fund will not prosecute them or any of them
for doing business without license.
J. M. TERRY,
"A true copy. Attest:
Secretary and Treasurer."
Following the above, the complainant's bill contains what
is termed a "Stipulation between the city of Louisville, the
commissioners of the sinking fund of the city of Louisville,
and the. banks, trust and title companies of the city of Louisville," which stipulation reads as follows:
"It is agreed between the city of Louisville, the commissioners of the sinking fund of the city of Louisville, represented by H. S. Barker, city attorney, acting under the advice
and by the authority of the board of sinking fund commissioners, given at a regular meeting of said board, and the
mayor of the city of Louisville, on the one part, and the
various banks, trust and title companies of the city of Louisville, acting by Humphrey & Davie and Helm & Bruce, their
attorneys, of the other part:
"First. That in February, 1894, it was agreed between the
city of Louisville and the board of sinking fund commissioners, acting together in the interest of the said city, and
the various banks, trust and title companies, acting through
their committee, to wit, Messrs. Thomas L. Barrett, John H.
Leathers and George W. Swearingen, and their counsel, to
wit, Messrs. Humphrey & Davie and Helm & Bruce, that the
question of liability of said banks and trust and title companies to pay municipal taxes, either license or ad valorem,
otherwise than as provided by the revenue law, commonly
known as the Hewitt bill, should be tested by appropriate
litigation looking to that end.

STONE v. BANK OF COMMERCE.
Statement of the Case.

"Second. In order to effectually test the question as to all
of said companies they were divided into three classes, it being
understood that all who had accepted the provisions of the
said Hewitt bill would fall in one or the other of the classes
named, to wit:
"A. Banks whose charters had been granted prior to 1856.
"B. Banks whose charters had been granted subsequent to
1856.
"C. National banks.
"It being understood that the trust and title companies
which had accepted the provisions of the Hewitt bill would
fall in class B, above named.
"Third. In pursuance of that agreement the sinking fund
commissioners caused to be issued warrants against the Bank
of Kentucky representing class A, the Louisville Banking
Company representing class B, and the Third National Bank
representing class 0, and these banks respectively applied for
a writ of prohibition against the city court of Louisville proceeding with the hearing, that being the manner pointed out
by the city charter for testing the validity of city ordinances.
"It was distinctly understood and agreed at the time, and
this agreement was made for the best interests of all parties,
to it, that if any bank in any class should eventually fail to
establish the existence and validity of the contract which
it was claimed was made under the Hewitt bill, that all of
that class should thereafter regularly and promptly submit to
the existing laws and pay their taxes; and it was also agreed
that if any bank of any class should succeed in establishing a
contract and the validity there6f under the Hewitt bill, that
that should exempt all banks and companies falling within.
that class from the payment of taxes,- except as provided in
the Hewitt bill.
"Fourth. On the faith of this agreement all of the banks
and companies aforesaid paid into the sinking fund the amounts
of taxes claimed against them, under the terms and conditions
named in the minutes of the sinking fund commissioners of
February 13, 1894, an attested copy of which is hereto
att.ched as part hereof, but at a later date andcin further
VOL. czmxxiv-27

OCTOBER . TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

reliance upon said agreement all said banks and companies,
except those actually involved in the test cases, paid the whole
of the amount of taxes claimed as against them by the city of
Louisville without reservation, until the question thus raised
should be finally disposed of.
HUMPHREY & DAvE,
HaELM & BRUCE,

For Banks, Trust and Title Companies of the City of Louseville.
H. S. BARKER, City Atty.
Approved: -C.

H. GIBSON,

Pres't Com'nrs Sinking Fund City of Lou.
A true copy.

Attest:

HUSTON QUINN.
ARTHUR PETER.
M.

McLoUGHLIN."

Tht, ouisville Banking Company was one of the banks
which brought an action for the purpose of testing the question of its liability to taxation. The charter of that company
was granted subsequent to the year 1856, and, in that respect,
it was like the defendant bank. It also claimed to have
accepted the provisions of the Hewitt Act. In the litigation
which followed, the Louisville Banking Company was adjudged
by the Court of Appeals of Kentucky to have an irrepealable
-contract -throughout its charter existence to be taxed under
the Hewitt Act, and judgment pursuant to that adjudication
was entered in favor of that company. The complainant
herein claimed the benefit of the foregoing adjudication, and
the Circuit Court allowed it, and gave judgment as follows:
"1. That the complainant is entitled to the benefit of the
proceedings taken in the case of the Louisville Banking Com*pany v. R. 1H. Thompson, Judge, etc., in the Jefferson court of
common pleas, and the proceedings taken in said cause on appeal to the Court of Appeals of Ken'acky, wherein the Louisville Banking Company was appellant and the said R. H.
Thompson, Judge, etc., and the city of Louisville were appellees, to the same extent as if the complainant had been.a
party to said proceedings,

STONE v. BANK OF COMMERCE.
Opinion -of the Court.

"2. That it is esjudicata between the complainant and the
city of Louisville that the complainant is entitled to be taxed
under what is known as the Hewitt revenue law and not
otherwise, and it is therefore adjudged, ordered and decreed
that the defendants Samuel H. Stone, Charles Findley and
George W. Long are perpetually enjoined and restrained from
making any assessment under the act of November 11, 1892,
or certifying the same to the city of Louisville upon any rights,
properties or franchises, or shares of stock of the complainant,
and that any provisions of the constitution of the State of
Kentucky and any provision of the said act of November 11,
1892, or of the city charter which may be construed as authorizing the levy or assessment of any tax against the complainant,
its rights, properties or franchises, other than as allowed by the
said Hewitt law is, during the corporate existence of the complainant, unconstitutional and void, and that the complainant
and its shares of stock are exempt from all other taxation
whatsoever, except as prescribed in the said Hewitt law, so
long as said tax shall be paid during the corporate existence
of complainant."
The defendants appealed directly to. this court from the
judgment of the Circuit Court, under the provisions of section
5 of the act of March 3, 1891, c. 517T, 26 Stat. 826, because the
case involved the application of the Constitution of the United
States, and because a law of the State of Kentucky was
claimed to be in contravention of that Constitution.
X7. Henry L. Stone for Louisville.
of Kentucky filed a brief for Stone.

Te Attorney General

fr. Alexander Pope H

phhrey, .21r. Frank Chinn, .MXr.
James P. Helm and -Mr. John W. Rodman for the banks.
MR. usTiE. PECKHAM, after stating the facts, delivered the
opinion of the court.
We have already decided, -in Citizens' Savings Bank of
Owensboro v. Owensboro, 173 U. S. 636, that in the case
of a bank whose charter was granted subsequently to the

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

year 1856, and which had accepted the provisions of the Hewitt
Act, and had thereafter paid the tax specified therein, there
was nevertheless no irrepealable contract in favor of such bank
that it should be thereafter and during its corporate existence
taxed under the provisions of that act. And in the same case
we held that the bank was properly taxed under the act of the
legislature of Kentucky passed in 1892. Unless the complainant is right in its contention that it is a privy to the judgment
in the case of the Louisville Banking Company, (mentioned in
the foregoing statement,) and that the question is resjudicata
in its favor, the complainant has failed to make good its claim
to be exempted from the provisions for its taxation under the
act of 1892. The Circuit Court has held that the complainant
was-entitled to be regarded as privy to the judgment above
mentioned in favor of the Louisville Banking Company, 88
Fed. Rep. 398, and that it could therefore avail itself of the
judgment in that case as resjudicata.
The sole question to be determined in this case is as to the
validity and effect of the agreement above set forth. The
complainant herein was not in fact a party to the judgment
in the Louisville Banking Company case, and it can only obtain the benefit of that judgment by virtue of the agreement.
The commissioners of the sinking fund form a separate and
distinct corporation from the city of Louisville, and no right
is shown to sign or make the agreement for itself or to bind
the city thereby. The agreement is not signed by the mayor,
nor is it pretended that there was any action on the .part of
the general council of the city authorizing the making of the
agreement. It was signed by the city attorney, and if he had
no power to sign on behalf of the city there is nothing to create
any liability on its part by virtue of the agreement, unless the
payment of the money therein spoken of operates by way of
estoppel to prevent the city from setting up the invalidity of
such agreement. The effect of the payment of the money will
be adverted to hereafter.
Upon its face there is no agreement even formally made
between the city of Louisville and the banks of which the
complainant herein is one, unless the signature of the city

STONE v. BANK OF COMMERCE.
Opinion of the Court.

attorney makes a valid agreement for the city. When the
agreement was made no suit had been commenced by any of
the parties; no litigation in regard to matters in dispute was
pending. Prior to the making of the agreement it was a
question altogether in the future as to what means should
be adopted, and what suits commenced, for the purpose of
establishing the rights of the various parties, as claimed by
them. The question as to what course should be pursued was
not one of law only. It was also one of policy. The stipulation actually entered into was of an administrative as well as
of a legal nature, involving the administration of the law
regarding taxation and the best means of determining the
legal questions involved in the dispute, while at the same tinfe
obtaining, so far as possible, payment of the taxes claimed by
the commissioners of the sinking fund as due from the various
banks and trust companies. These were questions which an
attorney would have no power to decide, and concerning
which he would have no power to make any agreement.
An attorney, in his capacity merely as such, has no power
to make any agreement for his client before a suit has been
commenced or before he has been retained to commence one.
Before the commencement of a suit, or the giving of authority
to commence one,there is nothing upon which the authority of
an attorney to act for hisclient can be based. If before the
commencement of any suit an attorney assumes to act fot his
principal it must be as agent and his actual authority must
appear, and if it be not shown it cannot be inferred by comparison with what his authority to act would have been if a
suit were actually pending and*he had in fact been retained
as attorney by one of the parties. The authority of' an
attorney commences with his retainer. He cannot while
acting generally as an attorney for an estate or a corporation
accept service of process which commences the action without
any authority so to do from his principal. This was directly
decided in Starr v. Hall, 87 N. 0. 381, and Reed v. Reed, 19
S. 0. 548, so far as regards a personal defendant, but the same
rule would follow in case of a corporation unless authority to
appear were specially given.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

When an attorney has been retained he has certain implied
powers to act for his client, in a suit actually commenced, in
the due and orderly conduct of the case through the courts.
In cases of suits actually pending he may agree that one suit
shall abide the event of another suit involving the same question, and his client will be bound by this agreement. OhIquest
v. Farwell, 71 Iowa, 231; Horta Jissouri Railroad Company v. Stephens, 36 Missouri, 150; Eidaev v. Finnegan, 48
-Minnesota, 53; Gilmore v. American Central2'nsur'ance Company, 67 California, 366; 1 Lawson's Rights, Rem. & Pr.,
section 173, page 292; 1 Thompson on Trials, section 195.
One case has gone to the extent of holding the attorney's
authority to agree that the case of his client should abide that
of another, included his right to agree that the case should
abide that of another involving the same question, although
his client-was not a party to that case and had no power to
interfere, in its prosecution or defence. Searritt Firniture
Company v. foser, 48 No. App. 543, 548.
There might perhaps be some doubt about the correctness
of a decision which so extended the power of the attorney.
It would be carrying the authority of an attorney a good way
to thus hold. It is not, however, in the least necessary for us
to decide the question in this case.
All the above cases relate to the authority of the attorney
after the actual commencement of suit and after the jurisdiction of the court has attached and the agreements made were
in the discharge of the duties owing as between attorney and
client, and subject to the supervision and power of the court
itself.
Nothing of the kind exists in the agreement here in question.
It is more than a mere agreement of an attorney to abide the
event of a decision in an actually existing suit. This agreement was not in the execution of the general power of an
attorney to decide upon the proper conduct of a suit then on
its way through the courts. It was an agreement much more
than that, and of a different nature. As we have said, the
question to be determined was one of policy as well as of law;
eminently one for the consideration of the city authorities, its

STONE v. BANK OF COMMERCE.
Opinion of the Court.

mayor and its general council, aided and assisted by the advice
of the attorney of the city. But it was a decision of a corporate nature, aid not one to be decided by any but the corporation, and it was one which we think was beyond the power
of an attorney to make while acting merely in his capacity as
attorney before suit brought and without specific authority.
We are also of opinion that as city attorney he bad no
greater power to bind the city by that agreement than would
an attorney have in the case of an individual. The power of
an attorney to conduct an actually existing suit, and in its
proper conduct to agree to certain modes or conditions of
trial, cannot be enlarged by implication, so as to embrace a
power on the part of an attorney, before litigation is existing
and before he has been retained to conduct it, to enter into an
agreement of the nature of this one. It might be convenient
to have such power and the commencement of a suit and a
retainer to defend may be a mere technicality, but the power
of an attorney depends upon the authority given him to commence a suit or to defend a suit actually brought, and he has
no power as an attorney until such fact exists.
Section 2909, Revised Statutes of Kentucky, provides that " There shall be elected by the general council, immediately
upon the assembling of the new board, a city attorney, whose
duty it shall be to give legal advice to the mayor and members,
of the general council, and all other officers and boards of the
city in the discharge of their official duties. If reiquested, he
shall give his opinions in writing, and they shall be preserved
for reference. It shall also be his duty to prosecute and
defend all suits for and against the city, and to attend to such
other legal business as may be prescribed by the general
council."
We do not think this section gave him the power to bind the
city by the agreement in question. He is undoubtedly the
retained attorney of the city in every suit brought against it,
and it would have been his duty to-take charge of the litigation when it should arise between the banks and the commissioners 6f the sinking fund or the city of Louisville. That -is,
when the suit was commenced, the statute operated in place

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

of a retainer in case of a personal client. When suits were
commenced against the city it was his duty to defend them,
but he had no power to appear for the city as a defendant iii
a suit which had not been commenced or to accept service of
process and waive its service upon the proper officer, without.
authority from that officer. Merely as city attorney, he had
no larger powers to bind his clients before suit was commenced
than he would have had in the case of an individual in like
circumstances. There must be something in the statute providing for the election or appointment of an attorney for a
corporation that would give such power; otherwise it does
not exist. We find nothing of the kind in the statute cited.
The Supreme Court of New York held, at special term, that
the counsel to the corporation of the city of New York had
no greater powers than an ordinary attorney to bind his client.
People v. .fXayor &o. of New York, 11 Abb. Pr. 06.
The agreement here in question, it is perceived, is much
more extensive than a mere agreement to abide the event of
another suit, and it is quite plain that it embraces more than
the attorney had the right to bind the city to, even if an
action had then been commenced and the agreement was
made in that action. However imperative may have been
his duty to save costs and expenses to the city, he was not
authorized on that account to enter into agreements of the
nature of this one, where no suits had been commenced
against the city and the commencement of which he had no
power to provide for.
Nor do we see that the commissioners of the sinking fund
were granted any power to make the stipulation in question;
certainly none to bind the city of Louisville. Our attention
has not been drawn to any statutd giving them power to
make an agreement of this nature.
Parties dealing with a municipal corporation are bound to
know the extent of the powers lawfully confided to the
otfcers with whom they are dealing in behalf of such corporation, and they must guide their conduct accordingly.
.Muphy v. Zouisville, '72 Kentuckyi 189.
As a result, we think the stipulation was not a valid one,

STONE v.

-BANK

OF COMMERCE.

Opinion of the Court.

binding either the commissioners of the sinking fund or the
city of Louisville.
It is contended, however, on the part of the complainant
that the payment of the money to the commissioners of the
sinking fund, pursuant to the provisions of the stipulation,
and its receipt by them, estops the city of Louisville from
asserting the invalidity of the stipulation. The claim of
complainant on this branch of the case is in substance that
it has the right under the agreement to the benefit of the
judgment in favor of the Louisville Banking Company as
re8 judicata in its favor, because the city, having received
the money by virtue of the agreement, is estopped by that
fact from insisting upon its invalidity.
The money was paid to the commissioners of the .sinking
fund. and not to the city, which is a separate and distinct
corporation. No corporate act on the part of the city is
shown since the payment which recognizes or approves it.
There is no ratification by the city of Louisville of this
unauthorized act of its attorney. In speaking of the act of
the attorney as unauthorized we do not mean to reflect in
the slightest degree unfavorably upon the conduct of the
city attorney, which seems by this record to have been
prompted solely by a regard for the best interests of the city
and by the most scrupulous good faith. We speak only of
the act as one for which the law would not hold the city
answerable.
But let us look for a moment at the position, occupied by
the respective parties and the facts which surround this
alleged estoppel upon the city, and for this purpose -the
invalidity of the agreement is assumed. The banks of
which complainant was one, at the time this agreement was
entered into,*conceded that they were liable to the payiftent
of taxes under the Hewitt Act, and denied that they were
-liable to pay taxes under the act of 1892. The city, on the
contrary, asserted the right to tax under the act of 1892, and
the question became one for judicial decision. The banks paid
the moneys spoken of in the agreement, and proceedings were
inaugurated to test the legal question involved in the dispute.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

It is alleged on the part of the complainant that the taxes
under the act of 1892 were and are greater in amount than

under the Hewitt Act, and it is not alleged or contended that
.the amount of moneys paid by the various banks was any
greater than would have been due and payable :under the
act of 1892. That is, the banks have in fact paid no more
than they ought to have paid if they had complied with the
pr6visions of the act of 1892. This court has just decided in
the Owensboro case (above cited) that the claim, on the part
of the banks, of an irrepealable contract under the Hewitt
Act was not well founded, and that the banks (so far as
concerns hat contention) have been liable to pay taxes
under the act of 1892 ever since that act was passed. The
complainant now asserts that because the banks paid the
money which they did under the agreement above mentioned, (although such money was certainly no. more thaAi
they were legally bound to pay under the act of 1892,) therefore the city is estopped from setting up the invalidity of
this agreement. The result would be that complainant by
virtue of the judgment in the Louisville, Banking Company
case could only be taxed under the Hewitt Act for the
remainder of its corporate existence, although the act of 1892
is a perfectly valid act under which, but for the judgment
above mentioned, the complainant would be liable to much
greater taxation than the Hewitt Act provides for. We think
these facts form no basis for the equitable estoppel claimed
by the complainant. The payment of money by complainant
under the agreement, when it ought to have paid at least as
large a sum under the act of 1892, but which it refused to pay
under that act, because it denied the validity thereof, we think
is not the basis for an appeal to the equitable powers of a court.
As a result -of the judicial inquiry, it is seen that the banks
have been at all times liable to pay taxes under the act of
1892. The fact that they disputed this liability and paid the
money under an agreement which did not admit the validity
of the act of 1892, forms no basis for this equitable estoppel,
when the fact appears that the moneys actually paid were
certainly. no more than- the banks were liable to pay under

STONE v. BANK OF COMMTEROE.
Opinion of the Court.

the disputed act. If, however, it were found that the banks
had paid at any time an amount greater than they would
have been liable to pay under the act of 1892, the city, by
the passage of the ordinance approved August 6, 1895, provided a means for crediting any bank with the amount of
such overpayment. In no way, therefore, has the complainant been legally damaged by the payment of the money to
the sinking fund. The only thing that may be said is, that
by virtue of the agreement, the complainant paid, and the
sinking fund received, the money at the times mentioned,
which otherwise would have been refused; but when we come
to consider that, although the legal question was in dispute,
the right was really with the city, and the banks were really
liable to pay taxes under the act of 1892, we think the payment they then made under the agreement would form no
equitable estoppel in favor of complainant. If so, it would
thereby be enabled to secure for itself the benefit of the
plea of res judicata,and would thus prevent the application
of the act of 1892 to it during its corporate existence. This
result would not, in our opinion, be an equitable one, and as
complainant has not in reality suffered legal injury by the
payment of the money, there is no basis for the support of
an estoppel.
An equitable estoppel which is to prevent the State from
receiving the benefit of an exercise of its power to alter the
rule or rate of taxation for all the time of the existence of a
business corporation, should be based upon the clearest equity.
It is fitly denominated an equitable estoppel, because it rests
upon the doctrine that it would be against the principles of
equity and good conscience to permit the party against whom
the estoppel is sought to avail himself of what might otherwise be his undisputed rights. The payment of mony under
the circumstances of this case, not exceeding the amount
really legally due for taxes, although disputed at 'the time,
does not seem to work such an equitable estoppel as to prevent the assertion of the otherwise legal rights of the city.
Nor does the fact that the complainant bank, upon the
execution of the agreement, omitted to sue and obtain

428

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

judgment against the city, add any force to the claim of estoppel.
The complainant, it must be assumed, knew the invalidity
. of the agreement because of the lack of power on the part
of those who signed it to bind the city or the sinking fund as
a corporation. There was no dispute as to facts, and no
misrepresentations were made. The law made the invalidity.
Knowing the agreement to be invalid, the omission to sue
forms no ground upon which to base the estoppel. The complainant had no valid agreement upon which to stand, and if
it omitted to sue it was at its own risk. There would seem
to be no reason- of an equitable nature springing out of the
facts herein why the complainant should not hereafter be
bound to pay the taxes prescribed in the act of 1892.
We think the judgment of the Oirouit Qourt should be reversed and the case remanded with instructions to dismiss the bill, and it is so ordered.
M . JusncE HARAN and MR. JuSTIcE WHrrE dissented.

No. 363. LouIsviLLE, v. Tim BANK OF COMtEROE. Appeal
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of
Kentucky. MR. JUSTIcE PECKHAI.
In the above case the same
question is involved that has just been determined in No. 362, and
there will be a like order reversing the judgment and remanding
the case to the Circuit Court with directions to dismiss the bill.
Mn. JUsTIcE HARLAN and MR. JUsTIcE WHITE dissented.

