LOUS VILLE v. BANK OF LOUISVILLE.

430

Syllabus.

posed or contemplated to-be assessed on the franchise or intangible property of the bank, nevertheless they were the

equivalent of a tax on the shares of stock in the names of the
shareholders, and hence did not violate the act of Congress.
It moreover held that the remaining grounds were without
merit. 88 Fed. Rep. 409.
The law under which the taxes in question were levied is the
same one which was considered in Owensboro National Bank,
Plaintiff in Error,v. The City of Owensboro and A. f.C.
Simmons, 173 U. S. 664. The theory of equivalency upon
which the court below decreed the taxes to be legal was in
that case fully examined, and held to be unsound.
It follows that the decrees below rendered in these cases
were erroneous. It is therefore ordered that said decrees be
Reversed, and the cases remanded to the lower court with
directions for such further proceedings as may be in
confo2!mity,with this opinion.
-

LOUISVILLE v. BANK OF LOUISVILLE.
STONE, Auditor, v. SAME.
APPEAW.L

FROM THE CERoUIT COURT OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

THE DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.
Nos. 859, 858. Argued February 28, March 2, 1899. -Decided

May 15,1899.

Stone v. Bank of Commerce, 174 U. S. 412, affirmed and applied to the point
that the agreement of the commissioners of the sinking fund of Louisville and the attorney of the city with certain banks, trust companies,
etc., including the Bank of Louisville, that the rights of those institutions should abide the result of test suits to be brought, was dehors the
power of the commissioners of the sinking fund and the city attorney,
and that the decree in the test suit by question did not constitute res
judicata as to those not actually parties to the record.
Citizens' Savings Bank of Owensboro v. Owensboro, 173 U. S.686, also affirmed
and applied.
On questions of exemption from taxation or limitations on the taxing power,
asserted to arise from statutory contracts, doubts arising must be resolved
against the claim of exemption.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the -Case.

TiE Bank of Louisville in these two cases filed its bills to
enjoin the collection of certain taxes. The matters to which
the bill in the first case (NSo. 359) related were certain franchise taxes for the years 1893 and 1894, the assessment and
certification of valuation whereof had been made prior to the
filing of the bill. Those covered by the bill in the second
case (No. 358) were, generally speaking, like those embraced
in the preceding suit, but were for different years-that is,
for 1895, 1896 and 1897, and by an amendment the taxes of
1898 were also included. These taxes, however, had not been
certified at the time the bill was filed, and the relief contemplated was the enjoining of the valuation of the franchise
and the certification of the same for the purposes of taxation, as well as the subsequent collection of the taxes to be
levied thereon. Omitting reference to the averments distinctly relating to the jurisdiction in equity, the case made
by the bills was this:
It was alleged that the bank was chartered on February 2,
1833, to endure until January 1, 1853; that pursuant to an
act approved February 16, 1838, the provisions of which had
been complied with, the charter existence was extended for
nine years; that by an act of February 15, 1858, duly accepted
by the bank, its charter privileges were continued in full force
for twenty years from the 1st of January, 1863 ; and finally
that by an act of May 1, 1880, which the bank had duly
accepted, its charter was extended for twenty years from
January 1, 1883. It was alleged that by the sixth section of
the original charter it was provided, among other things, that
the cashier of the bank "shall on the first day of July, 1834,
and on the same day annually thereafter, pay unto the treasurer of the State twenty-five cents on each share held by the
stockholders in said bank, which shall be in full of all tax or
bonus on said bank; provided, that the legislature may increase or reduce the same; but at no time shall the tax
imposed on said stock exceed fifty cents on each share held
in said bank." The tax, the bills admitted, by an act approved February 12, 1836, had been increased to fifty cents
a share.

LOUISVILLE v. BANK OF LOUISVILLE.
Statement of the Case.

In general language, it was averred that by certain decisions rendered by the courts of Kentucky in the years 1838,
1869 and 1888, it was held that similar language to that contained in the charter of complainant constituted a contract
preventing a higher rate of taxation than that provided for
in the charter, and that from all or some of these decisions
it resulted that the extension of an original charter, under
the law of Kentucky, carried with it all the rights and privileges, including the limit of taxation, contained in the original
charter. No decision, however, prior to 1880, by the Kentucky Court of Appeals, was referred to, holding that the
mere grant of a charter, or an extension thereof, was not
subject to repeal, alteration or amendment, if such power was
reserved, by a general law, in force when the charter was,
enacted or the extension was granted. There was no averment that the complainant was either a party or a privy to
the suits in which the decisions referred to had been rendered.
In both bills it was averred at length that the general
assembly of the State of Kentucky had enacted the statute
known as the Hewitt Act, and that the bank had accepted its
provisions. This act and its acceptance, it was asserted, constituted an irrevocable contract, protected from impairment
by the Constitution of the United States, thus securing the
bank against any form of taxation other than that provided
in the Hewitt Act. It was in both bills then declared that in
1894 the city of Louisville, asserting a right to collect taxes
from the bank, in violation of the contract embodied in the
Hewitt Act, for the purpose of testing the right of the city todo so, an agreement was entered into between the commissioners of the sinking fund, the city of Louisville through the
city attorney, and the attorneys of the complainant and of
other banks and trust companies, by which representative
suits were to be brought, and it was agreed that tile liability
of the complainant to any other taxation than that imposed
by the Hewitt Act should abide the result of the test suits in
question; that in compliance with this agreement a suit was
brought by the Bank of Kentucky, which like the complainant had been originally chartered before 1856, in which last-

OCTOBErm TV'in, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

named year an act had been passed in Kentucky reserving
the right to repeal, alter or amend all charters subsequently
granted, subject to certain exceptions provided expressly in
the act of 1856, and that this suit had culminated in a final
decree by the Court of Appeals of Kentucky holding that the
Hewitt Act was an irrevocable contract, and that the banks
which had accepted it were not liable to any other taxation
than that therein specified. Averring that the suit brought by
the Bank of Kentucky was the test suit contemplated by the
agreement, as determining the liability of the complainant to
other taxation than that imposed by the Hewitt Act, the
decree in the suit of the Bank of Kentucky was pleaded as
resjudicata. In addition, the bills asserted that if the Hewitt
Act was held by this court not to constitute an irrevocable
contract, then the complainant was entitled to be restored to
its rights under its charter as extended, and was consequently
not subject to the particular taxes, the assessing and collection
of which it was the object of the bills to prevent.
The court below held that the complainant, by virtue of the
agreement referred to, was a privy to the decree rendered by
the Court of Appeals of the State of Kentucky in fhvor of the
Bank of Kentucky in the test case in question, and hence
decided that the plea of res judicatawas well taken. From
its decrees enforcing these conclusious the appeals in both
these cases were taken.
Mr. Henry E. Stone for Louisville.
lr. Alexander Pope lumphrey, -Mr. Frank Chinn, .Mr.
James P. Helm and Mr. John w. Rodman for the bank.
M . JUSTICE WHITE, after making the foregoing statement,
delivered the opinion of the court.

The unsoundness of the plea of the thing adjudged, upon
which the lower court rested its decision, results from the
opinion announced in Stone v. Bank-of Commerce, ante, 412,
and Louisville v. Same, ante, 428. It was there held that the

LOUISVILLE v. BANTK OF LOUISVILLE.
Opinion of the Court.

agreement of the commissioners of the sinking fund of the
city of Louisville 'and the attorney of the city with certain
banks, trust companies, etc., including the complainant bank,
that the rights of those institutions should abide the result of
test suits to be brought, was dehors the power of-the commissioners of the sinking fund and the city attorney, and
therefore that the decree in the test suit in question did not
constitute 2res judicata as to those not actually parties to the
record.
The want of foundation for the assertion that the Hewitt
Act created an irrevocable contract between the complainants.
and the city is also disposed of by the decision in Citizens'
Savings Bank of Owensboro v. Owensboro. There is no
ground for distinguishing, this case from the one last referred
to. True it is that the original charter of the complainant
differs somewhat from the charter of the Citizens' Savings
Bank of Owensboro, inasmuch as the charter of the Citizens'
Savings Bank contained simply a limitation of taxation to a
fixed rate, whilst the charter now in question, although
establishing a stated rate, provided that the named rate
might be reduced or increased, but should not be increased
beyond a maximum sum. This limit as to the power to increase, it has been argued, took the case out of the reach of
the act of 1856, since it was a plain expression of the legislative intent that there should be no increase beyond the
maximum stated.
At the time the charter was extended, in 1880, the act of
1836 had increased the limit of taxation, fixed by the original
charter, to the maximum therein allowed of fifty cents on
each share. Conceding, arguendo, that the charter, as thus
extended, carried with it, into the new period, the limitation
of taxation fixed by virtue of the original charter and by the
act of 1836 increasing the sum to fifty cents on each share,
nevertheless the case is covered by the decision in the Citizens' Savings Bank of Owensboro, supra. There is nothing
in the extending act expressing the plain ifitent of the legislature that the charter as extended should not be subject-to
the repealing power reserved by the act of 1866. The act of

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

extension, therefore, was not taken out of the general rule
arising from the act of 1856, that is to say, it was not embraced in the exception mentioned in that act, saving from
the power to repeal, alter or amend "all charters and grants
of or to corporations or amendments thereof" when "the
contrary intent be therein plainly expressed." No such intent
being plainly expressed in the extending act, it follows that
the charter as extended was subject to repeal. It is impossible, in consonance with reason, to conceive of an unlimited
irrepealable contract right when there is no unlimited irrepealable contract from which the right can be derived. And
yet to such conclusion does the reasoning necessarily conduce
which asserts that a repealable charter gave rise to an irrepealable contract right. Granting that the extending act in
substance amounted to a rednactment in so many words of
the provision found in the original charter, such provision as
reenacted became but a part of a whole contract which was
subject to repeal. The right to repeal, embracing the whole,
covered also necessarily the provisions found in the whole.
The limitation of taxation in the original charter was during the
life of the corporation. If carried forward by the amendment
it was only for the new period, that is, during the extended
charter. But for all this extended period the charter was
subject to repeal, at the will of the legislature, and the power
to terminate the charter involved the correlative right of
ending those stipulations which were only to last during the
charter. The argument that, although the power to repeal
the charter was reserved, the power to alter the taxation,
without repealing the charter, did not arise, is but a form of
stating the proposition which we- have already noticed, and
which amounts to the assertion that the lesser is not contained
in the greater power. We must construe the extending act as
a whole, especially in view of the origin and implied import
of acts reserving the power to repeal, alter or amend, as fully
stated in Citizens' Savings Bank qf Owensboro v. Owensboro.
We think that the extending act was subject to the reserved
power of repeal,' free from limitations inconsistent with the
exercise of the right. The elementary general rule is that on

STEPHENS v. CHEROKEE NATION.
Syllabus.

questions of exemption from taxation or limitations on the
taxing power, asserted to arise from statutory contracts, doubts
arising must be resolved against the claim of exemption. We
cannot imply from the mere presence in the extended charter
of the limitation of taxation, found in the original charter, a
restraint on the power to repeal, alter or amend, when such
restraint does not flow from the provisions of the extending
act taken as a whole. It results from the fact that the extended charter was subject to repeal, that the complainant
had no irrevocable contract limiting the power of the State to
tax. Having no such right, it, of course, cannot assert that it
must, if the Hewitt Act was not an irrepealable contract, be
restored to the contract rights existing at the date of the
enactment of the Hewitt Act. The non-existence of the prior
right precludes the thought that a restoration could be possible.
From the foregoing reasons it follows that the decrees
below rendered were erroneous, and they must be and are
Reversed, and the cases remanded with direotion8 to dismiss
the bills, and it is so ordered.
MR. JusT oE HARLAN dissented on the ground that there
was privity, and therefore 'es judicata.

STEPIENS v. CHEROKEE NATION.

CHOCTAW NATION v. ROBINSON.
JOHNSON v. CREEK NATION.
CHICKASAW NATION v. ROBINSON.
APPEALS FROM THE

UNITED

STATES COURT IN THE

INDIAN

TER-

RITORY.
Ios. 458, 488, 461, 496. Arguedand submitted February 28, 24, 27,1899. -Decided

May 15,1899.

Congress may provide for a review of the action of commissioners and
boards created by it and exercising only quasi judicial powers, by a
transfer of their proceedings and decisions to judicial tribunals for
examination and determination de noo.

