OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY COMPANY
DE LACEY.

.

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 154. Argued and submitted January 18, 1829. -Decided

May 22, 1699.

The right of Flett, under whom De Lacey claims, was a right of preemption
only, which ceased at the expiration of thirty months from the filing of
- its statement, by reason of the failure to make proof and payment within
the time required by law, and it is not necessary, in order that the law
shall have its full operation, that an acknowledgment of the fact should
be made by an officer in the land office, in order to permit the law of
Congress to have its legal effect; and when the defendant settled upon
the land in April, 1886, and applied to make a homestead entry thereon,
his application was rightfully rejected.
The record shows that at the time of the commencement of this action the
railway company was the owner and entitled to the immediate possession
of the land in controversy, and that it was entitled therefore to judgment in its favor.

THIs is an action of ejectment brought by the plaintiff in
error against the defendant to recover possession of 160 acres
of land situated not far from Tacoma in the State of Washington.
The land lies within the primary limits of the land grant
both of the main line of the railroad of plaintiff in error, as
definitely located between Portland and Puget Sound, and
the Cascade branch, as definitely located between the point
where the railroad leaves the main line and crosses the Cascade Mountains to Puget Sound.
It appears from the facts found Upon the trial, without a
jury, that the plaintiff's predecessor was incorporated under
the act of Congress of July 2, 1861, c. 217, 13 Stat. 365, and
received a grant of public lands by virtue of section 3 of that
act. A further grant was made by virtue of the joint resolution .of Congress, adopted May 31, 1870. 16 Stat. 378, Resolution No. 67.
The Oompany surveyed and definitely located the line of its

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY v. DE LACEY.

6-23

Statement of the Case.

branch road extending from Tacoma to South Prairie, and on
March 26, 1884, filed its map, showing such line of definite
location, in the office of the Commissioner of the General
Land Office. The land in controversy is within the limits of
the grant to the company as defined by this map of definite
location, and is within the limits of the grant under the act of
July 2, 1864%.
The following statement is taken from the finding of facts
by the trial judge:
"XII. April 9, 1869, one John Flett filed declaratory statement No. 1227, declaring his intention to purchase certain
lands which are described in the complaint, under the laws
of the United States authorizing the predmption of unoffered
lands. Whether or not Flett was at this time qualified to
enter the land under the preemption or homestead laws does
not appear.
"XIII. In the fall of 1869 Flett left the land in controversy and did not thereafter reside thereon, although it is
recited in the decision of the Secretary of the Interior in a
contest between the railroad company, De Lacey, Flett, et al.,
before the Interior Department, involving the land here in
controversy, that in September, 1870, Flett went to the local
land office and told the officers that he had come to prove up
on his claim; that they told him it was railroad land and that
he had lost it; that Flett did not then actually offer to make
proof, but acquiesced in the advice of the local officers that
he was not entitled to submit proof under his filing."
"XV. The defendant, James De Lacey, settled upon the
land in controversy in April, 1886. April 5, 1886, he applied
to make homestead entry thereon. His application was rejected for the reason that the land fell within the limits of
the grant to the railroad company on both main and branch
lines. From this decision by the register and receiver De
Lacey appealed to the Commissioner of the General Land
Office.
"XVI. September '7,1887, John Flett submitted proof in
support of his preemption claim, founded upon his declaratory
statement filed April 0, 18690.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

"XVII. Afterward, under the instructions of the Commissioner, a hearing was had, at which all the parties, the railroad company, James De Lacey, John Algyr and John Flett
were present. July 27, 1889, the receiver of the district land
office found that Flett had not voluntarily abandoned the
land in 1869, and that his entry should be reinstated. From
this finding all the parties but Flett appealed to the Commissioner of the General Land Office, and December 5,
1889, the Commissioner sustained the finding of the receiver.
Thereafter the other parties to the contest appealed to the
Secretary of the Interior. September 28, 1891, the Secretary
of the Interior reversed the ruling of the Commissioner of
the General Land Office, and awarded the land in controversy
to the railroad company.
"December 13, 1892, letters patent of the United States,
regular in form, were issued, conveying the land in controversy to the plaintiff."
"XIX. Flett's declaratory statement was not formally cancelled upon the records until December 23, 1891.
"XX. The defendant is in possession of the land and withholds such possession from the plaintiff."
It also appeared that the railroad company on May 10,
1879, transmitted to the office of the Secretary of the Interior
a map showing its relocated line of general route, which map
was on June 11, 1879, sent to the Commissioner of the General Land Office by the Secretary for filing, with instructions
to withdraw the lands coterminous therewith from sale, preemption or entry for the benefit of the railroad company,
and the map was duly filed on that day. The land in controversy is within the line as relocated.
The conclusions of law of the Circuit Court were in favor
of the railroad company, and the court held that prior to
June 11, 1879, when the map of general route as relocated
was filed, and after the abandonment of the land by John
Flett, the same was public land of the United States, not
reserved, sold, granted or otherwise appropriated, and free
from predmption or other claims or rights, and that from
that date (June 11, 1879) the land was reserved from sale,

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY v. DE LACEY.

-625

Counsel for Parties.
preemption or entry, except by the railroad company, by
virtue of fixing the line of general route of the branch line
coterminous therewith; that this reservation became effective from and after the receipt of the order of the Commissioner at the United States district land office on July .19,
1879.
Judgment in favor of the plaintiff for the recovery of the
possession of the land was duly entered. Upon appeal by
the defendant to the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth
Circuit, that court reversed the judgment and rentanded the
cause to the Circuit Court for further proceedings not inconsistent with the views expressed in the opinion of the Court
of Appeals. Judgment in accordance with the opinion of
that court was subsequently entered by the Circuit Court,
dismissing the plaintiff's complaint, and awarding costs to
the defendant. This was done under objection of plaintiff,
which claimed the right to a new trial, and exceptioii was
taken thereto.
It appearing that the plaintiff, the Northern Pacific Railway Company, had subsequently to the hearing acquired the
rights of the original plaintiff to the property described in
the complaint, it was. substituted as plaintiff in this action.
A writ of error was then taken to the United States Circuit
Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, where the judgment
of the Circuit Court was affirmed. The plaintiff by writ of
error brought the case here for review.
The opinion of the Circuit Judge, given upon the trial of
the cause, is reported in 66 Fed. Rep. 450, and that of the
Circuit Court of Appeals in 44 U. S. App. 257.

.. rM.C. TF. B-unn for plaintiff in error.
was on his brief.

-Mr. 7avw B. fferr

.-Mr. W. H. Pritchard for defendant in error submitted on
his brief.
tant Atorney,RI8selZ
-Mr.Solicito General and Mr. A,
for the U7nited States submitted on their brief.
VOL. LXav--40

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

MiR.

JUSTICE PEoCEAm,

after stating the facts, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The grant of lands to aid the construction of that portion of
the main line of the railroad of the plaintiff in error, between
Portland and Puget Sound, dates from the joint resolution of
May 31, 1870, and.prior to that time there was no land grant
in aid of the construction of that portion of the road. United
Stae8 v. Northern Pacific Railroad Company, 152 U. S. 284,

292.
At the time of the adoption of the resolution of 1870 there
had been filed, April 9, 1869, in the local land office the statement of John Flett, declaring his intention to purchase the
la6nds in dispute under the laws of the United States authorizing the predmption of unoffered lands, and that entry being
unforfeited and uncancelled, operated to except the lands from
that grant. We may therefore confine our attention to the
grant under the act of July, 1864, and the subsequent proceedings which relate to that grant.
At the time of the, passage of that act the United States
owned the land in question as'public land, and as to that land
it had, as specified in .the third section thereof, "full title, not
reserved, sold, granted or otherwise appropriated, and free from
pregmption, or other claims or rights," and no portion of this
land had at that time been "granted, sold, reserved occupied
by homestead settlers, or preempted, or otherwise disposed of."
On the 26th of March, 1884, the plaintiff had fied its map of
definite location in the office of the Commissioner of the General Land Office, which map embraced the land in controversy.
The filing of such a map of definite location of a railroad
determines the right of the railroad company to the land under
the land grant acts of Congress. Kansas Pacifc Railway
Comnpany v. Dunmeyer, 113 U. S. 629; Sioux City ce. Com_pany v. Grifey, 143 U. S. 32, a grant similar in its nature to
the one under consideration.
If there had been a preemption claim at the time of the
passage of the act of 1864, the land would not have passed
under that grant. Bardon "V. .orthern Pacific Railroad,145
U. S. 535.

INORTHERIN PACIFIC RtAILWAY v. DE LACEY.

627

Opinion of the Court.

It is contended that at the time (March 26, 188 ) when the
map of definite location was filed, the declaratory statement
of Flett, filed in the local land office in 1869, remained there
as a record, and was an assertion of a preemption claim, and
the defendant maintains that under the case of Whitney v.
Taylor, 158 U. S. 85, the land described in that declaratory
statement was excepted from the grant to the railroad corn:
pany, and that the company therefore never acquired title to
the land by filing its map of definite location under the grant
contained in the act of 1864.
The learned judge, in delivering the opinion of the Circuit
Court of Appeals in the case at bar, quoted the following language from the opinion of this court in Whitney v. Taylor,
158 U. S. 85, 92.
"That when on the records of the local land office there is
an existing claim on the part of an individual under the homestead or predmption law, which has been recognized by the
officers of the government and has not been cancelled or set
aside, the tract in respect to which that claim is existing is ex-.
cepted from the operation of a railroad land grant containing
the ordinary excepting clauses, and this notwithstanding such
claim may not be enforceable by the claimant, and is subject
to cancellation by the Government at its own suggestion of
upon the application of other parties. It was not the int6ntion of Congress to open a controversy between the claimant
and the railroad company as to the validity of the former's
claim; it was enough that the claim existed, and the question
of its validity was a matter to be settled between the Government and the claimant, in respect to which the railroad company was not permitted to be heard."
The Circuit Judge then stated that the controlling fact in
this case was "that at the time of the definite location of the
plaintiff's road, opposite which the land in controversy is situated, there was on the record of the local land office Flett's
declaratory statement which had not been altered, amended,
cancelled or set aside; and that fact operated to except the
land in respect to which the claim existed from the grant to
the railroad company."

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

The single question in this case is, therefore, whether the
proceedings in the case of Flett were of such a nature as to
prevent the grant to the company under the act of 1864 from
taking effect at the time of the filing of its map of definite
location, March 26, 1884.
The defendant contends that the land in controversy was
excluded by operation of law from the grant of 1864 by the
resolution of May 31, 1870. Herein he assumes that the effect
of that resolution was to blot out the grant under the act of
1864. The resolution did not have that effect. It was not
an amendment to the third section of the act of 1864 which
granted the lands. If at that time (1870) certain claims had
been filed against this land by reason of which it was excepted
from the grant of 1870, such fact has no bearing upon the
provisions of the act of 1864, at whiich time there was no claim
upon this land, and if none existed when the map of definite
location was filed in 1884, the grant included the land. The
assertion that when the grant of 18.64 was made there was a
preemption claim in existence is not borne out in law or fact
by asserting the existence of such a claim when the grant of
1870 was made, and that by operation of that resolution the
grant of 1864 was so amended as to exclude that land. It
was not excluded. The fact that no claim existed at the
time the act of 1864 was passed remained notwithstanding the
adoption of the resolution of 1870, and the question therefore
still recurs whether in 1884, when the map of definite location
was filed, there was any claim upon this land which excepted
it from the grant by virtue of the act of 1864.
It is well to examine the statutes relating to the right of
pregmption under which the declaratory statement of Flett
was filed in order to determine the rights, if any, which he
hhd at the time when the company's map of definite location
was filed.
That statement, filed by Flett in 1869, was to the effect that
he intended to purchase the land which he described, "under
the laws of the United States, authorizing the pregmption of
unoffered lands." By the term "unoffered lands" is meant
those public lands of the United States which have not been

NORTHERN PLOIFIC RAILWAY v. DE LACEY.

629

Opinion of the Court.

offered at public sale. By section 3, chapter 51, of the act of
Congress making further provision for the sale of public lands,
approved April 21, 1820, c. 51, 3 Stat. 566, the price for which
public lands should be offered for sale after the first day of
July, 1820, was fixed at $1.25 an acre, and it was provided
that at every public sale the highest bidder, whio should make
payment as prescribed, should be the purchaser, but no land
was permitted to be sold at either public or private sale for a
less price than $1.25 an acre; and it was further provided in
that section that "All the public lands which shall 'have been
offered at public sale before the first day of July next, and
which shall then remain unsold, as well as the lands that shall
thereafter be offered at public sale, according to law, and remain unsold at the close of such public sales, shall be subject
to be sold at private sale, by entry at the land office, at one
dollar and twenty-five cents an acre, to be paid at the time of
making such entry as aforesaid; with the exception," etc.
After the passage of this act the public lands came to be
spoken of as ",unoffered lands," or those which had not been
exposed to public sale, and "offered lands," or those which
had been so exposed and remained unsold, and under the statute regulating the sales of p~iblic lands it would seem that
unoffered land could not be purchased at any price or in any
manner in advance of the public sale, while offered land was
at all times subject to purchase by the first applicant at a fixed
price. John8on v. Towsley, 13 Wall. 72, 88.
By the act approved September 4, 184:1, c. 16, entitled " An
act to appropriate the proceeds of the sales of the public lands,
and to grant preemption rights,' 5 Stat. 453, there was
granted, by the tenth section thereof, to every person being
the head of a family, etc., "who since the first day of June,
A.D. eighteen hundred and forty, has made or who shall hereafter make a settlement in person on the public lands to which
the Indian title had been at the time of such settlement extinguished, and which has been, or shall have been, surveyed
prior thereto, and who shall inhabit and improve the same,
and who has or shall erect a dwelling thereon, shall be, and is
hereby, authorized to enter with the register of the land office

OCTOBE11 TER T, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

for the district in which such land may lie, by legal subdivisions, any number of acres not exceeding one hundred and
sixty, or a quarter section of land, to include the residence of
such claimant, upon paying to the United States the minimum
price of such land, subject, however, to the following limitations and exceptions," etc.
By this section it will be seen that the right of prefmption
was extended equally to unoffered and offered lands.
By section 14 it was provided, however, that the selection
of unoffered lands should not delay the sale of such lands beyond the time which might be appointed by the proclamation
of the President, nor should the provisions of the act be available to any person who should fail to make the proof and payment and file the affidavits required, under section 13 of the
same act, bWfore the day appointed for the commencement of
the sales.
In regard to the so-called offeyed lands, it was provided by
section 15 of the act as follows:
"SEc. 15. And be it further evacted, That whenever any
person has settled or shall settle and improve a tract of land,
subject at the time of settlement to private entry, and shall
intend to purchase the same under the provisions of this act,
such person shall in the first case, within three months after
the passage of the same, and in the last within thirty days
next after the date of such settlement, file with the register
of the proper district a written statement, describing the land
settled upon, and declaring the intention of such person to
claim the same under the provisions of this act; and shall,
vhere such settlement is already made, within twelve months
after the passage of this act, and where it shall hereafter be
made, within the same period after the date of such settlement,
make the proof, affidavit and payment herein required; and if
he or she shall fail to. file such written statement as aforesaid,
or shall fail to make such affidavit, proof and payment, within
the twelve months aforesaid, the tract of land so settled and
improved shall be subject to the entry of any other purchaser."
The result of the passage of this act was to grant the right
to preempt 160 acres of either offered or unoffered land, and

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY v. DE LACEY.

631

Opinion of the Court.

that as to the unoffered lands the filing of a preemption declaratory statement was not required, and the right of the preemptor to make due proof and payment remained until the
time fixed by the proclamation of the President for the public
sale of lands, at which time (ifthe prioper proof and payment'
had not been made) the lands might be offered and sold to the
highest bidder, and if not sold they would become subject to
private entry by the first applicantlat the minimum price. As
to the offered lands, the right of the prebmptor was dependent
upon his filing a declaratory statement in the local office, as
stated in section 15 of the act above quoted.
By the fifth section of the act approved March 3, 1843,
c. 86, 5 Stat. 619, it was provided that settlers under the preemption act of 1841, upon unoffered land, should "make
known their claims, in writing, to the register of the proper
land office, within three months from the date. of this act
when the settlement has already been made, and within three
months from the time of the settlement when such settlement
shall hereafter be made, giving the designation of the tract
and the time of settlement; otherwise his claim to be forfeited and the tract awarded to the next settler, in the order of
time, on the same tract of land, who shall have given such notice
and otherwise complied with the conditions of the law."
Taking these two -acts of 1841 and 1843 and reading them
together, it is seen that there was a difference between
unoffered and offered lands by reason of the fact that on
unoffered lands the right or privilege to secure land by a
prefmption filing continued up to the commencement of the
public sale whenever that might be, and if that right or privilege had not been exercised and the land was offered at public
sale and not sold, it then became subject to private entry by
the first applicant, while on offered lands the right or privilege to secure them by a preemption filing continued for
twelve months after the date of the settlement, and if the
preemptor failed to file -the declaratory statement or make
the proper affidavit within the twelve months, "the tract of
land so settled and improved shall be subject to the entry
of any other purchaser."

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

Congress by an act approved May 20, 1862, c. 75, 12 Stat.
392, provided for the sale of public lands for homesteads, and
since that time the practice of disposing of the public lands
at public sale has gradually been abandoned, although the
authority remained. The abandonment of these public sales
resulted in giving to those who had made preemption filings
upon unoffered land an uncertain time within which to prove
or complete their proof and payment, because their time
lasted until the day of the public sale proclaimed by the
President. As these public sales were abandoned, the result was that these claimants were not under any obligation
to make proof and payment at all.
By the second section of the act approved July 14, 1870,
c. 272, 16 Stat. 279, it was provided that "all claimants of
preemption rights shall hereafter, when no shorter period of
time is now prescribed by law, make the proper proof and
payment for the lands claimed, within eighteen months after
the date prescribed for filing their declaratory notices shall
have expired: Provided, That where said date shall have
elapsed before the passage of this act, said preemptors shall
have one.year after the passage hereof in which to make such
proof and payment."
That act was amended by resolution N o. 52, approved
March 3, 1871, 16 Stat. 601, by which twelve months in addition to that provided in the act were given to claimants
to make proof and payment. Adding the twelve months
given by this resolution to the eighteen months given by the
act of 1870, all claimants of preemption rights were given
thirty months to make the proper proof and payment for the
lands claimed.
These various provisions are found in the United States
Revised Statutes from section 2257 to and including section
2267, the latter section giving the thirty months as stated.
We thus find that since 1871 all claimants of preemption
rights lost those rights by operation of law, unless within
thirty months after the date prescribed for filing their declaratory notices they made proper proof and payment for
the lands claimed. The filing of their declaratory statement,

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY v. DE LACEY.

633

Opinion of the Court.

and the record made in pursuance of that filing became without legal value if within the time prescribed by the statute
proper proof and payment were not made. Whether such
proof and payment were made would be matter of record, and
if they were not so made the original claim was cancelled by
operation of law, and required no cancellation on the records
of the land office to carry the forfeiture into effect. The law
forfeited the right and cancelled the entry just as effectually
as if the fact were evidenced by an entry upon the record.
The mere entry would not cause the forfeiture or cancellation.
It is the provision of law which makes the forfeiture, and the
entries on the record are a mere acknowledgment of the law,
and have in and of themselves, if not authorized by the law,
no effect. The law does not provide for such a cancellation
before it is to take effect. The expiration of time is a most
effective cancellation.
In such a case as this, where the forfeiture occurs by the
expiration of the thirty months within which to make proof
and payment, the record shows that the claim has expired;
that it no longer exists for any purpose, and therefore it cannot be necessary in order that the law shall have its full operation that an acknowledgment of the fact should be made by
an officer in the land office. The law is not thus subject to
the act or the omission to act of that officer.
The case of 1VUitey v. TayZor, 158 U. S. 85, cited in the
opinion of the Circuit Court of Appeals as decisive of the case
at bar, we think has not the effect given to it by the learned
court below. The land in that case was within the granted
limits of the grant to the Central Pacific Railroad Company
by the act of July 1, 1862, c. 120, 12 Stat. 489. That company filed its map of definite location -March 26, 1864. It
was held that the tract being subject to the preemption claim
of one J., at the time when the grant to the railroad company
took effect, was excepted from the operation of that grant.
It .was subject to the claim of J. because in May, 1857, he had:
filed his statement, paid the fees required by law, and the
filing was duly entered in the proper government record; and
at that time, as has been seen by the above review of the stat-

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

utes, there was no period within which a preemptor was compelled to prove up and pay for his claim, except that it
should be done before the land was offered at public sale by
the proclamation of the President. The tract in dispute bad
not been so offered at the date of the definite location of the
road, and it was held that J.'s time to make proof and payment had not expired at the time of the filing of the map of
definite location, and that consequently his was an existing
claim of record at that date.
The citation from the opinion of the court in Whitney v.
Taylor shows that the statement was made with reference to
that important and material fact; that it was an existing
claim on the part of the claimant at the tie of the filing of
the map of definite location. Whether that claim were an
enforceable one or whether there were facts which when
brought to the attention of the Government might induce it
to cancel it, or the fact that the Government might at its own
suggestion cancel the claim, were held not to affect the question. The material fact that it was an existing claim was the
fact upon which the case was decided.
In this case, such fact does not exist. There was no existing claim at the time of the filing of the map of definite
location by the plaintiff herein. It had expired and become
wholly invalid by operation of law. The thirty months had
expired years before the filing of this map.
In Northern, Paoifo Railroad Oohipany v. 0olburn, 161
U. S. 383, 388, it was stated in the course of the opinion that
there were "other questions in this case, such as the signifi-

cance of an expired fling," which were not considered by
the Supreme Court of the State or noticed by counsel, and
which were left for consideration thereafter. This shows
that the case of Whitney v. Taylor was not regarded by the
court, or by the justice who wrote the opinion therein, as
having a controlling bearing upon the question as to the
effect of an expired filing under circumstances such as are
developed in this case.
If claims which were of such a nature as to be described
as "existing" were made in regard to any of the lands which

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY v. DE LACEY.

635

Opinion of the Court.

otherwise might be included in the grant to the railroad
company, we reiterate what was said in the Dunmeyer caae,
that it is not conceivable that Congress intended to place
those parties, the railroad company and the various claimants to the land, in the attitude of contestants, with the
right in each to require proof from the other of complete
performance of its obligations. On the contrary, we would
say that if there were at the time of the filing of the map
of definite location an actual existing claim, even though it
might turn out to be wholly unfounded, the land thus claimed
would not pass by the grant. This has been decided as lately
as Nortker PaIt fie Railroad Company v. Sanders, 166 U. S.
620. In the case under consideration there was, at the time
of the filing of the map of definite location, no claim within
the meaning of the statute.
The right of Flett, obtained by the filing of his statement,
was the right of predmption only. In other words, the right
of purchase before any other person, and by the law of Congress that right ceased at the expiration of thirty months
from the filing of that statement. Thereafter there was no
claim, for it had ceased and determined, and with reference
to the right it was of no more validity after the expiration
of that time than if the statement had never been filed.
After the filing of a stitement and while the time is running
within which to make proof, there is an inchoate right on
the part of the pregmptor which the Government recognizes,
as in Fiisbiev. W7itiey, 9 Wall. 187.
It was held in ohnson v. Towsley, 13 Wall. 72, 90, that
in case the prefnptor failed to file his declaration of intention within three months from the time of settlement, as provided for in the fifth section of the act of 1843, c. 86, 5 Stat.
619, 620, he nevertheless would have the right after the expiration of the three months, being in possession, to then
make and file his declaration, provided no other party had
made a settlement or had given notice of his intention to
.make one and no one would be injured by the delay. But
the case is far from holding that after the declaration has
been filed and the time in which to prove up and make.pay-

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

ment upon his claim has wholly expired, the claim nevertheless still exists in sufficient force to prevent the transfer
of title to the company under the act of Congress, simply
because the officer of the land office has failed to perform
a mere ministerial duty by cancelling of record a claim which
has really ceased to exist by operation of law. A claim is
not an existing one where by the record it appears that the
right to make proof and payment has expired under the terms
of the statute.
It appears that it has not been the practice of the Interior
Department to enter any formal cancellation of an expired
preemption filing upon the books of the office; its practice
has been to take no action concerning them. They have
simply been treated as abandoned claims. State of Alabama,
3 L. D. 315, 317.
Reference is made in the briefs to the circular of Commissioner Drummond, dated September 8, 1873, in which he
says:
"By the operation of law limiting the period within which
proof and payment must be made in preemption cases, such
claims are constantly expiring, the settler not appearing
within such time to consummate his entry. These expired
filings are classed with those actually abandoned or relinquished."
And again in the circular of November 8, 1879, the Commissioner said:
"Where application is made by a railroad company to
select lands on which preemption filings have heretofore been
made and cancelled, or where the same have expired by limitation of law, no other claim or entry appearing of record,
you will admit the selections, in accordance with the rules
governing in the premises herein communicated. No proofs
by the companies concerning such claims will hereafter be
required."
The effect given by the land department to what is termed
an "expired filing of the nature of the one in suit has not
been uniform. It was in substance held in some cases that
such expired filing amounted to a claim within the meaning

NORTHERN PACIFIC RAILWAY v. DE LACEY.

637

Opinion of the Court.

of the statute, and that the land did not pass under the grant
to the railroad company. Emmerson v. CentralPacific Railroad Company, 3 L. D. 117; same case on motion for a
rehearing, 3 L. D. 271; Slhetka v. Northern Pacific Railroad
Company, 5 L. D. 473; Allen v. Northen Pacific Railroad
Company, 6 L. D. 520 ; Fish v. NZ'orthernPacific RailroadCompany, 21 L. D. 165; same case on motion for a rehearing, 23
L. D. 15. On the other hand, we have been referred to the
cases of Northern Pacific Railroad Company v. Stovenour,
10 L. D. 645; 3feister v. St. Paul &o. Railroad Company, 14
L. D. 624; Union Pacific Railroad Company v. Blartwih,
26 L. D. 680; fight v. Central Pacific Railroad Company,
27 L. D. 182; Central Pacific Railroad Company v. l-aunlaker, 27 L. D. 297. The last two cases cited touch the
question very remotely, if at all.
The latest decision of the land office to which our attention
has been called is that of Union Pacific Railroad Company
v. i8her, decided February 1, 1889. 28 L. D. 75. In that
case the Secretary refers to the cases which have been cited
above, holding that an expired filing excepted the land from
a grant to the railroad company, and he gives his reasons for
the decisions of the department in those cases, which he thinks
render them not altogether in conflict with the other decisions
of the department.
Although these decisions are somewhat inharmonious, it
would seem that the practice of the department not to enter
as cancelled an expired filing has been uniform, and the
record has been left to speak for itself.
For the reasons which we have already given, we think it
was unnecessary to enter the cancellation on the record of the
office in order to permit the law of Congress to have its legal
effect. That effect should not be dependent upon the action
or non-action of any officer of the land department. When
no proof and no payment have been made within the time
provided for by the law, the record will show that fact, and
that the right of the claimant has expired and the claim itself
has ceased to exist.
A case of this kind, which simply necessitates a reference

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

to the record to ascertain whether the filing had expired and
with it the rights of the claimant, differs from the case where
a filing may have become subject to cancellation; but the
record does not show it, and the right to cancel depends upon
evidence to be found deLors the record. In such case, while
the facts might invalidate the claim, yet as they are not of
record and require to be ascertained, the claim itself, though
possibly not enforceable, is still an existing claim within the
meaning of the law, and it would remain such until cancellation had taken place or some other act done legally terminating the existence of the claim.
Upon the facts as found in this case, it seems to us that
there was no claim against the land at the time of the passage
of the act of 1864, and that years before the time of the filing
of the map of definite location in 1884: the claim that once existed (in 1869) in favor of Flett had ceased to exist in fact and
in law, and the title to the land passed to the railroad coinpany by virtue of the grant contained in the act of 1864 and
by reason of the filing of -its map of definite location March
26, 1884. When, therefore, the defendant settled upon the
land in April, 1886, and applied to make homestead entry
thereon, his application was rightfully rejected for the reason
that title to the land had passed to the railroad company, as
above mentioned, and therefore he was not entitled to make
the entry.
For the same reason, when John Flett, in September, 1887,
submitted proof in support of his preemption claim, founded
upon his declaratory statement filed April 9, 1869, (and which
claim he had abandoned since 1870,) he was too late. His
right had expired niany years before 1884, at which time the
right to the land passed to the company, and he had no right
to prove up on his abandoned aifd expired claim.
The record shows that at the time of the commencement of
this action the railroad company was the owner and entitled
to the immediate possession of the land in controversy, and
that it was entitled therefore to judgment in its favor, and the
courts below erred in dismissing its complaint.

McMULLEN v. HOFFMAN.
Syllabus.

The judgment of the United States Circuit Court of Ap_pead8 for the Ninth Circuit is reversed, and the case remanded to the Circuit Court for the Western Division.,
District of Washington, for further yroceedings not inconsistent with the opinion of this court.

MR. JUsTioE HAwx and MR. JusTIoE MoKmxN dissented.

McMULLEN v. HOFFMAN.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 211. Argued April 27, 28, 1899. -Decided

May 22,1899.

The city of Portland, in Oregon, proposing to receive bids for the construction of what was called the Bull Run pipe line, Hoffman of Portland and
McMullen of San Francisco entered into a contract in writing as follows: "This agreement, made and entered into by and between Lee
Hoffman, of Portland, Oregon, doing business under the name of Hoffman & Bates, party of the first part, and John McMullen, of San Francisco, California, party of the second part, witnesseth: That, whereas,
said Hoffman and Bates have with the assistance of said McMullen at a
recent bidding on the work of manufacturing and laying steel pipe from
Mount Tabor to the head works of the Bull Run water system for Portland, submitted the lowest bid for said work, and expect to enter into
a contract with the water committee of the city of Portland for doing
such work, the contract having been awarded to said Hoffman and Bates
on said bid: It is now hereby agreed that said Hoffman and said McMullen shall and will share in said contract equally, each to furnish and pay
one half of the expenses of executing the same, and each to receive one
half of the profits or bear and pay one half of the losses which shall result therefrom. And it is further hereby agreed that if either of the
parties hereto shall get a contract for doing or to do any other part of
the work let or to be let by said committee for bringing Bull Run water
to Portland, the profits and losses thereof shall in the same manner be
shared and borne by said parties equally, share and share alike." Both
put In bids for the work which forms the subject of dispute in this case.,
Hoffman's bid was for $465,722. McMullen's was $514,664.. There were
several other bids, but Hoffman's was the lowest of all. The contract
was awarded to him. He did the work and received the pay. This

