McMULLEN v. HOFFMAN.
Syllabus.

The judgment of the United States Circuit Court of Ap_pead8 for the Ninth Circuit is reversed, and the case remanded to the Circuit Court for the Western Division.,
District of Washington, for further yroceedings not inconsistent with the opinion of this court.

MR. JUsTioE HAwx and MR. JusTIoE MoKmxN dissented.

McMULLEN v. HOFFMAN.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE NINTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 211. Argued April 27, 28, 1899. -Decided

May 22,1899.

The city of Portland, in Oregon, proposing to receive bids for the construction of what was called the Bull Run pipe line, Hoffman of Portland and
McMullen of San Francisco entered into a contract in writing as follows: "This agreement, made and entered into by and between Lee
Hoffman, of Portland, Oregon, doing business under the name of Hoffman & Bates, party of the first part, and John McMullen, of San Francisco, California, party of the second part, witnesseth: That, whereas,
said Hoffman and Bates have with the assistance of said McMullen at a
recent bidding on the work of manufacturing and laying steel pipe from
Mount Tabor to the head works of the Bull Run water system for Portland, submitted the lowest bid for said work, and expect to enter into
a contract with the water committee of the city of Portland for doing
such work, the contract having been awarded to said Hoffman and Bates
on said bid: It is now hereby agreed that said Hoffman and said McMullen shall and will share in said contract equally, each to furnish and pay
one half of the expenses of executing the same, and each to receive one
half of the profits or bear and pay one half of the losses which shall result therefrom. And it is further hereby agreed that if either of the
parties hereto shall get a contract for doing or to do any other part of
the work let or to be let by said committee for bringing Bull Run water
to Portland, the profits and losses thereof shall in the same manner be
shared and borne by said parties equally, share and share alike." Both
put In bids for the work which forms the subject of dispute in this case.,
Hoffman's bid was for $465,722. McMullen's was $514,664.. There were
several other bids, but Hoffman's was the lowest of all. The contract
was awarded to him. He did the work and received the pay. This

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.
action was brought by McMullen to recover his portion of the profit,
according to the contract. Held, that this contract was illegal, not only
as tending to lessen competition, but also because the parties had committed a fraud in combining their interests and concealing the same, and
in submitting the different bids as if they were bona fide, and that the
court will not lend its assistance in any way towards carrying out the
terms of an illegal contract, nor will it or any court enforce any alleged
rights directly springing from such a contract.
While distinguishing Brooks v. artin, 2 Wall. 70, from this case, the court
holds, that, taking that case into due consideration, it will not extend its
authority at all beyond the facts therein stated.

Tmis action was originally brought by the complainant McMullen against one Lee Hoffman, and he having died before
the trial, the action was revived against the defendant Julia
E. Hoffman, as the executrix of his will. When the defendant is hereinafter spoken of, the original defendant is intended.
The complainant filed his bill against the defendant, seeking an accounting of profits that he alleged had been made by
the defendant upon a certain contract for the construction of
what is termed the Bull Run pipe line, and which contract
was entered into between the city of Portland, in the State of
Oregon, and the defendant on or about March 10, 1893. The
complainant bases his right to share in the profits of that contract by virtue of another contract in writing between himself
and the defendant herein, executed March 6, 1893.
That
agreement reads as follows:
"This agreement, made and entered into by and between
Lee Hoffman, of Portland, Oregon, doing business unaer the
name of Hoffman & Bates, party of the first part, and Jobn
McMullen, of San Francisco, California, party of the secontl
part, witnesseth: That, whereas, said Hoffman and Bates have
with the assistance of said McMullen at a recent bidding on
the work of manufacturing and laying steel pipe from Mount
Tabor to the head works of the Bull Run water system for
Portland, submitted the lowest bid for said work, and expect
to enter into a contract with the water committee of the city
of Portland for doing such work, the contract having been
awarded to said Hoffman and Bates on said bid:

McMULLEN v. HOFFMAN.
Statement of the Case.

"It is now hereby agreed that said Hoffman and said McMullen shall and will share in said contract equally, each to
furnish and pay one half of the expenses of executing the
same, and each to receive one half of the profits or bear and
pay one half of the losses which shall result therefrom.
"And it is further hereby agreed that if either of the parties hereto shall get a contract for doing or to do any other
part of the work let or to be let by said 'ommittee for bringing Bull Run water to Portland, the profits and losses thereof
shall in the same manner be shared and borne by said parties
equally, share and share alike.
"Witness our hands and seals this 6th day of March, A. I).
1893.
"JOHN McMULLEN.

[sEL.]

"LEE HOFFnAN.

[SEAL.]

The cqtract for manufacturing and- laying the steel pipe
was awarded to the defendant at a public letting of the whole
work at Portland, of which the manufacturing and laying of
the pipe was a part, and the whole work was divided into
classes, and separate bids called for and received for each class.
The defendant put in bids in the name of Hoffman & Bates
for several classes, while the plaintiff, in the name of the San
Francisco Bridge Company, (of which he was an officer,) put
in separate bids for the same classes.
The bids of complainant and defendant for the several
classes of the work were as follows:
Conduit from head works to Mount Tabor of wrought iron
or steel, making and laying pipe:
Hoffman & Bates .............................
$465,722 00
San Francisco Bridge Company ...............
514,66.4 00
(The profits arising out of this contract are the subject of the
controversy herein.)
Head works -

Hoffman & Bates .............................
San Francisco Bridge Company ................
VOL. CLXXIV-41

$17,800 00
16,550 00

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

Bridges -

Hoffman & Bates ............................. $33,562 94
San Francisco Bridge Company ................ 31,279 07
Also for steel conduit for head works to MNount Tabor Hoffman & Bates ............................ $359,278 00
San Francisco Bridge Company ................ 348,781 00
There were several other bids by different bidders for these
various classes. The bid in the name of Hoffman & Bates for
the manufacture and laying of the wrought iron or steel pipe
from the head works to Mount Tabor being 8465,722, was the
lowest out of eight bids, the various bids from the highest to
the lowest being as follows:
The Risdon Iron & Locomotive Works .......... $600,737
The Bullon Bridge Company .................. 533,507
Oscar Huber ............................ 521,775
San Francisc Bridge Company .............. 514,664
Wolff, Buener & Zwicker .................... 495,682
Ferry Hinckle & Robert Wakefield ............ 481,040
E. W. Jones & 0. W. Wagner ................ 477,552
Hoffnman & Bates ............................ 465,722

00
00
40
00
00
00
00
00

All these bids were before the committee on the part of the
city and were taken into consideration at the time the award
was made to the defendant. After the acceptance of his bid
for the manufacturing and laying of the pipe, the defendant
entered into a contract with the city of Portland to do the
work mentioned in such bid, and commenced the performance
of the contract as provided for therein. The work was duly
completed and the city paid defendant the contract price for
the same, retaining the percentage provided for therein, as
security that the terms of the contract had been fully complied
with.
The complainant alleges that defendant, after securing
the contract, went on with the work thereunder, but refused
to permit him-to participate in the profits arising therefrom
or to examine the books of the partnership, and tflat although
he (complainant) furnished some of the capital and performed

McMULLEN v. HOFFMAN.
Statement of the Case.

some of the services provided for in the contract with the city,
and participated in some of the expenses of the execution of
the contract, and devoted some of his time and attention to
the proper performance thereof, and-was at all times ready to
do everything required of him by his agreement of partnership, yet that the defendant received all the moneys paid by
the city and absolutely refused to account to him foP any part
thereof, and denied that he had any interest in or right to any
portion of such moneys. The complainant, therefore, asked
for an accounting between himself and defendant, as partners,
and for a decree for the payment to him of one half the profits
arising from the contract, the whole of which he alleged
amounted to 580,000, (the courts below say the evidence shows
they were $140,000;) that a receiver might be appointed to
take charge of the property of the partnership, its records,
books, papers, etc., and that the defendant might be restrained
during the pendency of the suit from making sale or other disposition of the tools, equipment or other personal property belonging to the partnership, and from drawing from the city of
Portland the moneys withheld by it on account of the contract, as well as any other money due for other work done by
the defendant under the contract of partnership.
The answer of the defendant, while denying many of the
allegations of the complaint, set up as a special defence
the making of an agreement between the parties, (of which
the partnership agreement was a portion,) by the terms of which
they were to put in bids for the construction of the work i the
complainant in the name of the San Francisco Bridge Company
and the defendant in the name of Hoffman & Bates; that the
bids should not be in reality competitive, but should be submitted to each other before they were put in, and their terms
should be mutually agreed upon, the higher bids to be merely
formal, and the bids themselves as agreed upon should be
delivered to the water committee; that if either party received
the contract, they should both share in the profit or loss
resulting from its performance, but that their mutual interest
in each other's bids should not be made known when the bids
were offered, so that it would appear that they were apparently

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

competing for the variotis classes of the work and for furnishing the material, when in fact they were not. This agreement,
the defendant alleged, was carried out, and the contract secured by means thereof.
The court upon motion of the complainant granted a temporary injunction as prayed for in the bill. Exceptions were
taken to certain parts of the answer of the defendant as being
insufficient. Material portions of these exceptions were overruled by the court upon the ground that the answer set up
an illegal contract between the parties, and one which could
not be enforced by either. 69 Fed. Rep. 509.
Upon the final hearing of the case the same judge, becoming
convinced that he had erred in his former decision in overruling
the exceptions to the answer, decided that the case as made on
the part of the defendant showed no defence to the complainant's cause of action, and thereupon he made a decree for an
accounting substantially as asked for in the complainant's bill.
'75 Fed. Rep. 547.
An appeal from the decree of the Circuit Court was taken to
the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth Cir*cuit, and that court held that the contract between the parties
was illegal, and that no action could be maintained thereon by
either, and the decree in favor of the complainant was therefore reversed. 48 U. S. App. 596. Complainant then applied
to this court for a writ of certiorari to review the judgment
of the Circuit Court of Appeals, which was granted May 9,
1898. 170 U. S. 705.
Mr.IL. B. Cox and .Mr. William A. Aaury for petitioner.
.X,. P. Percy Wright was on their brief.
XT. Rufus .Mallory for respondent.
MR.JusTic, PEoxHAm, after stating the facts, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The foregoing statement shows that there is a difference of
opinion in the courts below as to the law applicable to the

McMULLiEl

v. IHOFFMAI'..

Opinion of the Court.

Upon general principles it must be apparent that biddings
for contracts for public works cannot be surrounded with too
many precautions for the purpose of obtaining perfectly fair
and boncftde bids. Such precautions are absolutely necessary
in order to prevent the successful perpetration of fraud in the
way of combinations among those who are ostensible rivals,
but who in truth are secretly banded together for the purpose
of obtaining contracts from public bodies such as municipal
and other corporations at a higher figure than they otherwise
would. Just how the fraud is to be successfully worked out
by the combination, it is not necessary to show. It is enough
to see what the natural tendency is. Public policy requires
that officers of such corporations, acting in the interest of
others, and not using the sharp eye of a practical man engaged
in the conduct of his own business, and not controlled by the
powerful motive of self-interest, should, so far as possible and
for the sake of the public whom they represent, be protected
from the dangers arising out of a concealed combination and
from fictitious bids.
To hold contracts like the one involved in this case illegal is
not to create any new rule of law for the purpose of affording
the protection spoken of. It is but enforcing an old rule, and
applying it to such facts as exist in this case because it naturally fits them. Its enforcement here is to but carry into
effect the public policy upon whict the rule itself is founded.
People who have been guilty of the conduct exhibited in this
record cannot be heard to say that although their arrangement was fraudulent and illegal, they would nevertheless have
obtained the contract even if they had not been guilty of the
fraud, because the bids show they were the lowest bidders.
The bids might have been lower yet if there had been competition where there was in fact combination. The parties
must accept the consequences resulting from entering into the
agreement proved in this case, all of which they carried out,
and included in which and as a consequence thereof was the
agreement with the city and the written agreement of part
nership between themselves.
In Hyer v. Richmond Traction Company, 168 U. S. 471, in

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

speaking as to the character: of the agreement in that case,
Mr. Justice Brewer remarked that the vice of a combination
"lies in the fact of secrecy, concealment and deception; the
one applicant, though apparently antagonizing the other, is
really supporting the latter's application, and the public authorities are misled by statements and representations coming
from a supposed adverse, but in fact friendly, source."
In that case the demurrer admitted the allegation of the
complaint that the combination of the two interests asking
for the concession from the common council was known and
announced to that body before its decision was made. The
case simply shows the part which concealment takes in a combination, being in fact one of the great dangers springingtherefrom.
In Atcheson v. .Hlallon, 43 N. Y. 147, 151, Judge Folger, in
delivering the opinion of the court, said:
"But a joint proposal, the result of honest cobperation,
though it might prevent the rivalry of the parties, and thus
lessen competition, is not an act forbidden by public policy.
Joint adventures are allowed. They are public and avowed,
and not secret. The risk, as well as the profit, is joint, and
openly assumed. The public may obtain at least the benefit
of- the joint responsibility, and of the joint ability to do the
service. The public agents know, then, all that there is in
the transaction, and can more justly estimate the motives of
the bidders, and weigh the merits of the bid."
We have here nothing to do with a combination of interest
which is open and avowed, which appears upon the face of
the bid and which is therefore known to all. Such a combination is frequently proper, if not essential, and, where, no concealment is practised and the fact is known, therd may be
no ground whatever for judging it to be in any manner
improper.
But in this case there is more even than concealment.
There is the active fraud in the putting in of these, in substance, fictitious bids, in their different names, but in truth
forming no competitive bids, and put in for the purpose already stated. It is not too much to say that the most perfect

McMULLEN v. HOFFMAN.

653

Opinion of the Court.

good faith is called for on the part of bidders at these public
lettings, so far as concerns their position relating to the bids
put in by theni or in their interest. The making of fictitious
bids under the circumstances detailed herein is in its essence
an illegal and most impropei act; indeed, it is a plain fraud,
perpetrated in the effort to obtain the desired result.
The evidence shows that this written partnership agree-'
ment was only a part of the entire agreement existing between the parties. That agreement' covered and was clearly
intended to cover iheir whole action from the time they
agreed to put in their bids in a common interest up to and
including the execution and performance of the contract obtained from the city. The agreement (of which that for a
partnership was but a portion) was that they should combine
their interests; that they should put in bids known to each;
that they should conceal the fact of their combination; that
they should put in fictitious bids without expectation or purpose of having them taken; that if the contract were procured
they should perform the work as partners and share expenses
and divide profits. No division of. that contract into two
periods, the one prior and the other subsequent to the written
agreement between the parties, can be made. The complainant cannot count only upon the contract of partnership as
evidenced by the writing of March, 1893. That writing. evideticed only a portion of the agreement that had been made
between these parties, the result being that, althbugh their
agreement was in the first instance by parol; a portion of. it
was subsequently reduced to writing. The whole contract
is none the less one and indivisible, just as much as if it had
all been put in wriing. If it had been, it would scarcely be
argued that complainant might maintain an action by relying
on thkt part of it which was valid and relating to the partnership between them, and that he might discard or omit to
prove that portion which was illegal. If the complainant did
not, the defendant could, prove the whole, contract, as well
the part lying in parol as that which was reduced to writing,
so that the court might, upon an inspection of the whole contract, determine therefrom its character. The unity of the.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

contract is not severed or its meaning or effect in any degree
altered by putting part of it in writing and leaving the rest in
parol.
Concluding as we do that this agreement between these
parties is as a whole of an illegal nature, and that the portion thereof which is reduced to writing cannot be separated
from the balance of the agreement, the question then arises
as to the result of such conclusion upon the parties to the
agreement.
There are several old and very familiar maxims of the common law which formulate the result of that law in regard
to illegal contracts. They are cited in all law books upon
the subject and are known to all of us. They mean substantially the same thing and are founded upon the same
principles and reasoning. They are: Ex dolo malo non oritur actio; Ex }acto illicito non oritur actio; Ex. turpi causa
non oritur aetio. About the earliest illustration of this doctrine is almost traditional in the famous case of The )Uighwayman. It is stated that Lord Kenyon once said, by way
of illustration, that he would not sit to take an account be"tween two robbers on Hounslow Heath, and it was questioned whether the legend in regard to the highwayman
did not arise from that saying. It seems, however, that the
case was a real one. He did file a bill in equity for an accounting against his piartner, although it was no sooner filed
and its real nature discovered than it was dismissed with
costs, and the solicitors for the plaintiff were summarily
dealt with by the court as for a contempt in bringing such
a case before it. (1 Lindley on Partnership, 5th ed. 94, note
n; 9 Law Quarterly Review, (London) pp. 105-197.)
The authorities from the earliest tfme to the present unanimously hold that no court will lend its assistance in any way
towards carrying out the terms of an illegal contract. In case
any action is. brought in which it is necessary to prove the
illegal contract' in order to maintain the action, courts will
not enforce it, nor will they enforce any alleged rights di-rectly springing from such contract. In cases of this kind
the maxim is Potior e8t conditio defendentis.

McMULLEN v. HOFFM

.

Opinion of the Court.

The following are only a few of the numerous cases upon
the subject in England and in this country: Holman v. Johnson, (1775) 1 Cowper, 341 ; Booth v. Hodgson, (1795) 6 T. R.
405; Thomson v. Thomson, (1802) 7 Yes. 468; Shifner v.
Gordon, (1810) 12 East, 296; Sykes v. Beadon, (1879) L. R.
11 Oh. Div. 170; Scott v. Brown, (1892) 2 Q. B. D. 724;
Belding v. Pitkin, (1804) 2 Caines, 147a; Atcheson v. XlZon,
(1870) 43 N. Y. 147; Leonard v. Poole, (1889) 114 N. Y.
371; Wheeler v. Russell, (1821) 17 Mass. 258, 281; Snell v.
Dwight, (1876) 120 Mass. 9; Mfarshall v. Batimore & Ohio
Railroad Co., (1853) 16 How. 314, 334; .Mklair v. Gibbes,
(1854) 17 How. 232; Coppell v. Hall, (1868) 7 Wall. 542;
Tridt v. Child, (1874) 21 Wall. 441, 448; Woodtocek Iron
Company v. Richmond & Danville .Extension Co., (1888) 129
U. S. 643; 1 Lindley on Partnership, 5th ed. 93, note, giving
the result of the American cases. The general proposition is not disputed, but certain explanations as to its meaning and extent have been announced
by the courts in cases now to be referred to, and the effort
has been to show that the case before us comes under some
.of the exceptions to the rule, and ought not to be governed
by the so-called harshness of the rule itself.
If the partnership agreement that is contained in the
writing above set forth is in truth but part of an entire agreement, which contains utterly illegal provisions, then this
action cannot be maintained within any of the authorities.
It is only by proving the partnership agreement as an
entire agreement, separate and free from the balance of the
agreement between the parties, that argument can be made
in favor of its validity. It has been sometimes said that
where a contract, although it be illegal, has been fully executed between the parties so that nothing remains thereof
for completion, if the plaintiff can recover from the defendant
moneys received by him without resorting to the contract,
the court will permit a recovery in such case. The cases cited
as illustrating ;he exception are, among others, Tenant v.
liott, (1797) 1 Bos. & Pul. 2; Farmerv. Russell, (1798) 1 Bos.
& Pal. 295; Sharp v. Taylor, (1849) 2 Phil. Oh. 801, 817;

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

A'mstrong v. Toler, (1826) 11 Wheat. 258, 269; .iMcBlair v.
Gibbes, supra, 17 How. 232, 235; Brooks v. .Martin,(1863)
2 Wall. 70; Planters'Bank v. Union Bank, (1872) 16 Wall.
483; Armstrong v. American Echange National Bank of
Chicago, (1889) 133 _U. S. 433, 466.
Upon the point as to the ability of the plaintiff to make out
his cause of action without referring to the illegal contract,
it may be stated that the plaintiff for such purpose cannot
refer to one portion only of the contract upon which he .proposes to found his right of action, but that the whole of the
contract must come in, although the portion upon which he
founds his cause of action may be legal. Booth v. Hodgson,
6 T. R. 405, 408; Thomson v. Thomson, 7 Yes. 468; Embrey
v. Jenison, 131 U. S. 336, 348.
, In the first of- the above cases the plaintiff sought to maintain his action by referring to that part of the contract which
was not illegal, and to ask a recovery upon that alone. Lord
Kenyon, Chief Justice, observed that it seemed to be admitted
by counsel for plaintiff "That if the whole case were disclosed
to the court there was no foundation for the demand. They
say to the court, ' suffer us to garble the case, to suppress
such parts of the transaction as we please, and to impose that
mutilated state of it on the court as the true and genuine
transaction, and then we can disclose such a case as will
enable our clients to recover in a court of law.' Such is the
substance of this day's argument. It is a maxim in our law
that a plaintiff must show that he stands on a fair ground
when he calls on a court of justice to administer relief to
him."
Mr. Justice Ashhurst, in the same case, said: "The plaintiffs wish us to decide this case on a partial statement of
the facts, thereby admitting that if the whole case be disclosed they have no prospect of success; but we must take the
whole case together, and upon that the plaintiffs cannot recover."
Mr. Justice Grose said: "We cannot decide on a part of
the case; and taking the whole together, an assumpsit cannot be raised from one part of the case when the other parts

McMULLEN v. HOFFMAN.
Opiniont of the Court.

of it negative an assumpsit." The defendant therefore had
judgment.
In Thomson v. Thomson, supr'a,the plaintiff was not permitted to recover, because he had no claim to the money
except through the medium of -an illegal agreement. The
Master of the Rolls (Sir William Grant) said: "If the case
could have been brought to this, that the company had paid
this into the hands of a third person for the use of the plaintiff, he might have recovered from that third person; who
could not have set up this objection (the illegality of the contract) as a reason for not performing his trust. Tenant v.
Elliott is, rthink, an authority for that. But in this instance
it is paid to the party; for there can be no difference as to the
payment to his agent. Then how are you to get at it, ecept
through this agreement. There is nothing collateral; in respect of which, the agreement being out of the question, a
collateral demand arises; as in the case of stock jobbing
differences. Here. you cannot stir a step but through that
illegal agreement; and it-is impossible for the court to enforce
it. I must therefore dismiss the bill."
And in Embrey v. Jemison, su2ra; although the action was
upon four negotiable notes, the court would not permit a recovery to be had upon them, because the consideration for the
notes was based upon a contract which was illegal. Mr. Justice Harlan, in delivering the opinion of the court, said that
the plaintiff could not "be permitted to withdraw attention
from this feature of the transaction by the device of obtaining
notes for the amount claimed under that illegal agreement;
for they are not founded on any new or independent consideration, but are only written promises to pay that which the
obligor had verbally agreed to pay. They do not, in any just
sense, constitute a distinct or collateral contract based upon a
valid consideration. Nor do they represent anything of value,
in the hands of the defendant, which, in good conscience,
belongs to the plaintiff or to his firm. Although the burden
of proof is on the obligor to show the real consideration, the
execution of the notes could not obliterate the substantive fact
that they grew immediately out of, and are directly connected
VOL. cLxxlv-42

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

with, a wagering contract. They must, therefore, be regarded
as tainted with the illegality of that contract, the benefits of
which the plaintiff seeks to obtain by this suit. That the defendant executed the notes with full knowledge of all the facts
is of no moment. The defence he makes is not allowed for
his sake, but to maintain the policy of the law," citing Coppell
v. Hall, 7 Wall. 54:2, 558.
,Inthe latter case Mr. Justice Swayne, delivering the opinion
of the court, said :.
"Whenever the illegality appears, whether the evidence
comes from one side or the other, the disclosure is fatal to the
case. No consent of the defendant can neutralize its effect.
A stipulation in the most solemn form to waive the objection
would be tainted with the vice of the original contract, and
void for the same reasons. Wherever the contamination
reaches it destroys. The principle to be extracted from all
the cases is, that the law will not lend its support to a claim
founded upon its violation."
These authorities uphold the pririciple that the whole case
may be shown, and the plaintiff cannot prevent it by proving
only so much as might sustain his cause of action, and then
objecting that the defendant himself brings in the balance,
which it was not necessary for plaintiff to prove.
The cases aboVe cited as illustrative of the exceptions to the
general rule also show what is meant by the cause of action
being founded on some new consideration, or upon a contract
collateral to the original illegal one.
In Tenant v. Elliott, stpra, it was held that where two persons had entered into an illegal contract in regard to insurance, and a loss having occurred, the insurer paid the money
to a third person to be paid to plaintiff, the third person
could not himself retain the money because it arose out of an
illegal contract. Eyre, Chief Justice, asked, "Whether he
who had received the money to another's use on an illegal
contract, can be allowed to retain it, and that not even at the
desire of those who paid it to him? "
In such case clearly the defendant had nothing whatever to
do with the illegality of the original contract. He received

NMcMULLEN v. HOFFMN.
Opinion of the Court.

case. The question is one of importance, involving as it does
the principles which should control in regard to the procurement of contracts at public lettings for work to be awarded
to the lowest bidder. Assuming the same facts, t]e courts
below have come to opposite conclusions upon the character
of the contract and upon the right of the complainant to
obtain redress for his alleged wrongs.
It was on account of the general importance of the question
and the many lettings for public works by the Government
and by municipal corporations which are affected by the law
relative to bidding, that this court thought it a proper case to
issue the writ of certiorari herein. The cases upon the subject are not entirely harmonious, and we think it well to
again consider some of them and so far as possible to remove
the doubts which seemingly have arisen in this branch of the
law.
Looking in the record before us, we find that the pleadings
and proofs taken herein show that for some time prior to the
6th of March, 1893, the city of Portland intended to add to
its water supply by bringing to the city the water from a
creek or river called Bull Run, some thirty miles distant, and
for that purpose it had-issued through its water committee
proposals for bids to build the works, which proposals were
divided into several different classes as already stated.
The complainant McMullen, living in San Francisco and
being a large stockholder in and manager of the San Francisco Bridge Company, came to Portland for the purpose
of giving his attention to the matter, and if possible to make
an arrangement with the defendant by which they might
together become bidders for the work. He and the defendant had many interviews before the time of delivering the
bids arrived, and they finally agreed that each party should
put in separate bids in his own or his firm name, or in the
name of his company, for certain classes of the work, but that
they both should have a common interest in each bid if any
were accepted. This community of interest was to be kept secret and concealed from all persons, including the water committee. Each was to know the amount of the other's bid, and

OCTOBER TERM. 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

all bids were to be put ifi only after mutual consultation and
agreement. Bids for the various classes of work were put in
as above set forth, and among them the bid for the manufacture
and laying of the pipe, which was accepted by the water committee. All of them were put in pursuant to this agreement,
part of them in the name of Hoffman & Bates and part in the
name of the San Francisco Bridge Company. The bid in the
name of the San Francisco Bridge Company for the manufacture of the pipe was nearly $50,000 higher than the amount
bid in the name of Hoffman & Bates, and was put in after
consultation with and approval by the defendant. This last
bid was put in, as stated by Mr. McMullen in his evidence, as
a matter. of form only, and to keep the name of his company
before the public, but it appeared on its face to be a bona fide
bid. The water committee received the bids in ignorance of
the existence of this agreement and in the supposition that all
the bids which were received were made in good faith, and
they all received consideration at the hands of the committee.
After the computations were made by which it appeared that
the bid of the defendant was the lowest for the manufacture
and laying of the pipe, the contract was awarded him, and
afterwards that portion of the agreement which had been
made between the parties to this combination, viz., that relating to the partnership, was reduced to writing, and is set out
in the foregoing statement.
Upon these facts the question arising is whether a contract
between the parties themselves such as is above set .forth is
illegal ? In order to answer the question we would first naturally ask what is its direct and necessary tendency ? Most
clearly that it tends to induce the belief that there is really
competition between the parties making the different bids,
although the truth is that there is no such competition, and
that they are in fact united in interest. It would also tend to
the belief on the part of the committee receiving the bids that
a bona fide bidder, seeking to obtain the contract, regarded
the price he named, although much higher than the lowest
bid, as a fair one for the purpose of enabling him to realize
reasonable profits from its performance. A bid thus made

McMULLEN v. HOFFMAN.
Opinion of the Court.

amounts to a representation that the sum bid is not in truth
an unreasonable or too great a sum for the work to be done.
We do not mean it is a warranty to that effect or anything of
the kind, but simply that a committee receiving such a bid
and assuming it to be a bonajte bid would naturally regard
it as a representation that the work to be done, with a fair
profit, would, in the opinion of the- bidder, cost the amount
bid. Hence it would almost certainly tend to the belief -that
the lower bid was not an unreasonably high one, and that it
would be unnecessary and improper to reject all the bids and
advertise for .a new letting. The fact that there were other
bids even higher than that of the San Francisco Bridge Conipany, for the manufacture and laying of the pipes, does not
alter the tendency of the agreement when carried into effect,
to create or to strengthen the belief on the part of the committee in the fact of an active competition and the bonjfde
character of that competition, and that the lowest bid would
be in all probability a reasonable one. It is in truth uttterly
impossible to accurately or fully predict all the vicious results
to be apprehended as the natural effect of this kind of an
agreement. It cannot be said in all cases just what the
actual effect may have been.
The natural tendency and inherent character of the agreement are also uinaffected by any evidence produced on the
part of the complainant, that the chairman of the water committee had, when examined nearly three years after the occurrence, no recollection as to the bid of the bridge company
or that it had any particular effect upon his mind, and that
he said that the contract was awarded to the lowest bidder
simply because he was the lowest bidder, and -without -reference to the bid of the bridge company.
The question is not whether in this 'particular case. any
member of the water committee did or did not remember the
fact that the bridge company had made a bid or that such
bid had no effect upon his mind. The question is not as to
the effect a particular act in fact had upon a member of the
water committee, but what is the tendency and character of
the agreement made between the parties; and that tendency

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

or character is not altered by proof on the part of a member
of the committee, given several years afterwards,that he had
no special recollection that such a bid had been made. The
,evidence is that all the bids that were given received the consideration of the committee, and there can'be no doubt that
the more bids there were, seemingly of a bona #de character,
the more the committee would be impressed with the idea that
there was active competition for the work to be done:
It might readily be surmised that if these parties had bid
in competition, one or both of the bids would have been lower
than their combined .bid. It was not necessary, however, to
prove so difficult a fact. The inference would be natural.
In Ridhardson v. Crandall, 48 N. Y. 348, 362, the court
said: "In all cases where contracts are claimed to be void as
agains public policy, it matters not that any particular contract is free from any taint of actual fraud, oppression or
corruption. The laws look to the general tendency of such
contracts. The vice is in the very nature of the contract, and
'it is condemned as belonging to a class which the law will not
tolerate," citing Atcheson v. .Mallon, 43 N. Y. 147.
Although these remarks were made when the court was
dealing with the case of a bond taken colore offleii, yet the
principle applies equally to a case like the one at bar, and
indeed it is seen that such was the view of' the judge delivering the opinion, since he cited Atcheson -v. -. allon, which in
its nature is a case very similar to the one now before us.
The vice is inherent in contracts of this kind, and its existence does not in the least .depend upon the success which
attends the execution of any particular agreement.
In T-ool Company v. Norris, 2 Wall. 45, 56, the court said,
in speaking as to illegal agreements:
"It is sufficient to observe, generally, that all agreements
for pecuniary considerations to control the business operations
of the Government, or the regular administration of justice,
or the appointments to public offices, or the ordinary course
of legislation, are void as against public policy, without reference to the question whether improper means are contemplated or used in their execution."

McMULLEI

v. HOFFMAN.

Opinion of the Court.

And in Rex v. De Berenger, 3 M. & S. 67, 72, cited in Scott
v. Brown, (1892) 2 Q. B. D. 724, 730, Lord Ellenborough,
C. J., said:
"A public mischief is stated as the object of this conspiracy; the conspiracy is by false rumors to raise the price
of the public funds and securities; and the crime lies in the
act of conspiracy and combination, to effect that purpose, and
would have been complete, although it had not been pursued
to its consequences, or the parties had not been able to carry
it into effect. The purpose itself is mischievous; it strikes at
the price of a vendible commodity in the market, and if it
gives it a fictitious price by means of false rumors, it is a
fraud levelled against all the public, for it is .against all such
as may possibly have anything to do with the funds on that
particular day."
Contracts of the nature of this one are illegal in their nature and tendency, and for that reason no inquiry is necessary
as to the particular effect of any one contract, because - it
would not alter the general nature of contracts of this description or the force of the -public policy which condemns
them.
In the case at bar the illegal character of the agreement is
founded not alone upon the fact that it tends to lessen competition, but also upon the fact of the commission of a fraud by
the parties in combining their interests and concealing the
same, and in submitting different bids as if they were ,bona
fide, when they knew that one of them was so much higher
than the other that it could not be honestly accepted, and
when they put it in for the sake of keeping up the form and
of strengthening the idea of a competition which did not in
fact exist. The tendency of such agreements is bad, although
in some particular case it might be difficult to show that it
actually accomplished a fraud, while its intention to do so
would be plain enough. Therefore, when it is urged that
these parties had no intention of bidding for this work alone,
and that unless they had combined their bids neither would
.ave bid at all, and hence the agreement between them tended
to strengthen instead of to suppress competition, this answer to

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

the illegality of the transaction is insufficient. The evidence.
however, does not show that if these parties had not agreed
upon a combination neither would have bid alone. It shows
the complainant came to Portland to see the defendaint and to
conclude their arrangements to go into the combination, but
we are by no means of the opinion that the evidence shows
that if they had not combined they would not have bid at all.
Complainant's company had bid alone at a prior letting, some
time before, and had then been the lowest bidder for the contract, which the city did not award because of a lack of means
of payment for the work consequent upon a veto by the governor of the bill providing for the issuing of bonds to make
such payment. And it seems that the defendant himself was
well able to carry on the contract alone.
If it be granted that the fact was proved that neither party
would have bid separately, and that by virtue of the combination a bid was made which otherwise would not have been
offered, the significance of the other facts in the case is not
thereby altered. Those other facts are the concealment of the
interest which the parties had in each other's bids, and the
making of what were under the circumstances nothing more
than fictitious bids fo this and the other classes of work for
which both parties put in bids, evidently for no other purpose
than to endeavor thereby to deceive the committee into believing that there was real competition between them, when
in fact there was none. If there had been competition, the
bid of each for the contract that was obtained might very
likely have been lower than the one that was accepted. It is
not necessary to prove that fact in order to show the nefarious
character of the agreement.
The reason given for the making of these fictitious bids by
the complainant, that it was a formal matter and to keep the
name of his company before the public, is entirely inadequate.
The bids actually put in by them for the other classes of work
had the same tendency to strengthen belief in the reality of
the competition which in fact did not exist between these
persons. The whole transaction was intentionally presented
to the water committee in a false and deceptive light.

McMULLIEN v. HOFFMA1:
Opinion of the Court.

the money'to be paid to another, and when he xeceived it for
that purpose he promised, either expressly or by implication
arising from the facts, that he would deliver the money to
the plaintiff, and when he refused to do it the plaintiff could
recover upon this express or implied contract, without resorting in any Tanner to the original contract between himself
and another, which in its nature was illegal, but with which
the defendant was in nowise concerned.
.FaTmer v. Ru8sell, sujra , is to the same effect. The defendant received the money from a third person to deliver
to the plaintiff, and it was held that he was bound to pay
it to the plaintiff, although the original consideration upon
which the money was to be paid the plaintiff by the third
person was illegal. Eyre, Chief Justice, said:
"It seems to me that the plaintiff's demand arises simply
out of the circumstances of money being put into the defendant's hands to-be delivered to him. This creates an indebitatus, from which an assumysit in law arises, and on that an
action on the case may be maintained.

.

.

.

The case

therefore is brought to this, that the money is got into the
hands of a person who was not a party to the contract, who
has no pretence to retain it, and to whom the law could not
give it by rescinding the contract. Though the court will
not suffer a party to demand a sum of money in order to fulfil
an illegal .contract, yet there is no reason why the money in
this case should not be recovered notwithstanding the original
contract was void. The difficulty with me is, that the contract
with the carrier cannot be connected with the contract between
the plaintiff and the man ht Portsmouth, and in that view I
think the verdict is not to be supported. However, I incline to
a new trial on another ground. It does not clearly appear that
the defendant was nothimself a party to the original contract;
for there was a circumstance in the report which gave much
countenance to the idea that the carrier knew what he was
doing, viz., that he was lending his assistance to an infamous
traffic. In that case, the rule .felior est conditio possidentis
will apply; for if the contract with him be stained by anything
illegal, the plaintiff shall not be heard in a court of law.",

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

The verdict in this case had been for the defendant.
There was a question in the case whether the defendant was
privy to the contract between the plaintiff and the man at
Portsmouth. The goods transported were counterfeit pennies
or balf-pen ce, and it was the opinion of Eyre, Chief Justice,
that if the defendant had been privy to the original illegal
agreement so that the whole thing was but one transaction,
the plaintiff could not have recovered. M1r. Justice Rooke
was of opinion that it was not important whether the defendant were privy or not; that if the contract were illegal, the,
plaintiff could not recover from the defendant in any event.
The other two judges were of opinion that the money having been delivered to the defendant for the purpose of being
paid to the plaintiff, the defendant was bound to make such
payment without reference to the illegality in the original
transaction.
The difference in the principle upon which a recovery was
allowed in' thee two cases and that upon which the defence
in this case is based is very clear. In the case before us
the-eause of action grows directly out of the illegal contract,
and if the court distributes the profits it enforces the contract which is illegal. But where A claims money from B,
although due upon an illegal contract, and B acknowledges the
obligation and waives the defence of illegality and pays the
money to a third party upon his promise to pay it to A,
the third party cannot successfully defend an action brought
by A to recover the money by alleging that the original contract between A and B was illegal. This is the principle
decided, and we think correctly decided, in the cases cited.
'It was certainly no business of the" third party to inquire into
the reasons which impelled the person to give him the money
to pay to the plaintiff. That was a matter between those
parties, and if the party from whom the money was due admitted his indebtedness and chose to pay it, the defendant,
who received it upon his promise to pay the plaintiff, would
have no possible defence to an action by the plaintiff to compel such payment., Such an action is in no sense founded upon
an illegal contract. That matter was closed when the party

McMULLEN -v. HOFFMA.
Opinion of the Court.

owing the money under it paid it to a third person to be paid
to the plaintiff. The action by the plaintiff in such case is
founded upon a new contract upon a totally different consideration and of a perfectly legitimate character.
The next case cited by complainant as an authority for.the
maintenance of this action is Sha?:p v. Taylor, supra. It
was stated by the Chancellor in that case that where one of
two partners had possessed himself of the property of the
fitm, he could not be allowed to retain it by merely showing
that in realizing it some provision of some act of Parliament
bad been violated or neglected or that some provision of a foreign statute relating to the registry of vessels had not been
complied with.
Lord Chancellor Cottenham, in the course of his opinion,
said:
"The violation of law suggested was not any fraud upon
the revenue, or omission to pay what might be due; but, at
most, an invasion of a Parliamentary provision, supposed to
be beneficial to the ship owners of this country; an evil, if
any, which must remain the same, whether the freight be
divided between Sharp and Taylor, according to their shares,
or remain altogether in the hands of Taylor. As between
these two, can this supposed evasion of the law be set up as
a defence by one against the otherwise clear title of the other?
In this particular suit, can the one tenant in common dispute
the title commot to both? Can one of two partners possess
himself of the property of the firm, and be permitted to retain
it, if he can show that, in realizing it, some provision in some
act of Parliament has been violated or neglected? Can one
of two partners, in any import trade, defeat the other, by
showing that there was some irregularity in passing the goods
through the custom house? The answer to this, as to the
former case, will be, that the transaction alleged.to be illegal
is completed and closed, and will not be in any manner affected
by what the court is asked to do, as between the patties. Do
the authorities negative this view of the case? The difference between enforcing illegal contracts and asserting title
to money which has arisen from them, is distinctly taken in

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opifiion of the Court.

.Tenant v. Elliott and Farmer v. Russell, and recognized and
approved by Sir William Grant in Thomson v. Thomson. But
the alleged illegality in this case was not in the freight being
paid to English subjects claiming as owners of the ship, as in
Cam~pbell v. Innes. The importation of the goods in a ship
American built, and not professing to have any English registry, would not be illegal, and the American owner might
assign the freight to any one: assuming this to be so, I am of
opinion that, under the authorities referred to, Taylor, who
received the freight on account of himself and Sharp, cannot
set up this defence to Sharp's claim. Upon these grounds,
therefore, independently of the submission in the answer, this
part of the decree is, I think, right."
These observations show that the judgment did not go upon
the illegality arising from a mere violation or neglect of a
provision of an act of Parliament relating to vessels, and the
agreement was not classed among those contracts which are
of such an illegal nature that courts refuse to enforce them.
Some of the observations of the. Chancellor, made by way of
illustration regarding the rule itself, have been since doubted
by the English courts, as in the case of Sykes v. Beadon,
supra, where Jessel, Master of the Rolls, in holding that an
illegal contract could not be enforced by one party to it as
against the other, directly or indirectly, said that there were
several dicta of Lord Cottenham's in Sharp V.Taylor, which
he thought were not good law, and the Master of the Rolls
remarked:
"It is no part of a court of justice to aid either in carrying
out an illegal contract, or in dividing the proceeds arising
from an illegal contract, between the parties to that illegal
contract. In my opinion, no action can be maintained for
.the one purpose more than for the other."
Continuing, the Master of the Rolls observed:
"Then Lord Cottenham goes on, in Sharp v. Taylor, to
say: 'Do the authorities negative this view of the case?
The difference -between enforcing illegal contracts and asserting title to money which has arisen from them is distinctly taken in Tenant v. Elliotet and Farmer v. Russell,

McMULLEN v. HOFFMAN.
Opinion of the Court.

and recognized and approved..by Sir William Grant in Thomson v. Thomson.' Yes; but not in that way. I have already
explained what those cases were. Those were not cases in
which one of the two parties to an illegal contract sought
to recover from the other a share of the proceeds of the
illegal contract. Then he goes on to distinguish Sharp v.
Taylor in a way which probably distinguishes it from .cases
which would be open to exception on the ground of criminality. Those are all the authorities to which I think it
necessary to refer. I think the principle is clear that you
cannot directly enforce an illegal contract, and you cannot
ask the court to assist you in carrying it out. You cannot
enforce it directly; that is, by claiming damages or compensation for the breach of it, or contribution from the persons
making the profits realized from it."
Sharp v. Taylor should not be carried at all beyond the
facts of the case as set out in the report.
In 3ofBlair v. Gibbes, supra, the question was in relation
to the validity of an assignment by an assignor of his interest
in an illegal contract. The payment of the money arising
therefrom had been, subsequently to the assignment, provided for by the party owing it, and the dispute arose between the representatives of the assignor and those of the
assignee as to which were entitled to the share originally due
to the assignor. It was claimed on the part of the representatives of the assignor that the original contract being
illegal, the sale and assignment of an interest therein from
him to the assignee was also illegal, and consequently that
such interest, equitable or legal, passed to the assignor's executors. Mr. Tustice Nelson, however, in delivering the
opinion of the court, said:
"But this position is not maintainable. The transaction,
out of which the assignment to Oliver arose, was uninfected
with any illegality. The consideration paid was not only
legal, but meritorious, the relinquishment of a debt due from
Goodwin to him. The assignment was subsequent, collateral
to, and wholly independent of, the illegal transactions upon
which the principal contract was founded. Oliver (the as-

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

signee) was not a party to these transactions, nor in any way
connected with them. It may be admitted that even a subsequent collateral contract, if made in aid and in furtherance
of the execution of one infected with illegality, partakes of
its nature, and is equally in violation of law; but that is not
this case. Oliver, by the assignment, became simply owner
in the place of Goodwin, and as to any public policy or concern supposed to be involved in the making, or in the fulfilment of such contracts, it was a matter of entire indifference
to which it belonged. The assignee took it, liable to any
defence, legal or equitable, to which it was subject in the
hands of Goodwin. In consequence of the illegality the
contract was invalid, and incapable of being enforced in a
court of justice. The fulfilment depended altogether upon
the voluntary act of Mina, or of those representing him. No
obligation existed, except what arose from a sense of honor
on the part of those deriving a benefit from the transaction
out of which it arose. Its value rested upon this ground,
and this alone. The demand was simply a debt of honor.
But if the party who might set up the illegality chooses to
waive it, and pay the money, he cannot afterwards reclaim
it. -And, if even the money be paid to a third person for
the other party, such third person cannot set up the illegality
of the contract on which the payment has been made, and
withhold it for himself."
What is meant by a collateral contract or a cause of action
arising therefrom, which does not require reference to the principal illegal contract or transaction, is still further illustrated
in Armstrong v. Toler, 11 Wheat. 258. In the course of his
opinion Mr. Chief Justice Marshall assumed the facts to be
that the plaintiff, during a war between this country and
Great Britain, contrived a plan for importing goods on his
own account from the country of the enemy, and goods
were also sent to B by the same vessel. The plaintiff, at
the request of B, became surety for the payment of the duties
which accrued on the goods of B and was compelled to pay
them, and the question was whether he could maintain an
action on the promise of B to return this money, and the

MoMULLEN v. HOFFMAN.
Opinion of the Court.

court held that such an action could be sustained. The court
said:
"The case does not suppose A to be concerned, or in any
manner instrumental in promoting the illegal importation
of B, but to have been merely engaged himself in a similar
illegal transaction, and to have devised the plan for himself,
which B afterwards adopted."
And.again: "The questions whether the plaintiff had any
interest in the goods of the defendant, or was the contriver
of, or concerned in, a scheme to introduce them, or consented
to become the consignee of the defendant's goods, with a view
to their introduction, were left to the jury. The point of law
decided is, that a subsequent independent contract, founded on
a new consideration, is not contaminated by the illegal importation, although such illegal importation was known to
Toler, when the contract was made, provided he was not
interested in the goods, and had no previous concern in
their importation."
And at page 274: "In most of the cases cited by the
counsel for the plaintiff in error, the suit has been brought
by a party to the original transaction, or on a contract so
connected with it as to be inseparable from it. As, where a
vendor in a foreign country packs up goods for the purpose
of enabling the vendee to smuggle them; or where a suit is
brought on a policy of insurance on an illegal voyage ; or on
a contract which amounts to maintenance; or on one for the
sale of a lottery ticket, where such sale is prohibited; or on a
bill which is payable in notes issued contrary to law. In these,
and in all similar cases, the consideration of the very contract
on which the suit is brouglfit is vicious, and the plaintiff has
contributed to the illegal transaction..
The case of Arm8trong v. American Exchange Bank, supra,_
is similar to the cases of Tenant v. Elliott and Farmer v.
Rimsell, and was decided upon the same principle.
Counsel for the complainant also refer to a case where a
plaintiff had let his horse to the defendant on Sunday, and the
defendant had injured the horse by his recklessness and negligence, and a recovery against him was had for the damages

OCTOBER TERI1, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

occasioned by such negligence, notwithstanding the illegality
of the contract of hiring, because in violation of the law relating to the Sabbath day. Hall v. Corcoran,107 Mass, 251.
In that case the court held the cause bf action was not
founded upon the contract, but the defendant was held liable
by reason of his improper and neglectful conduct in regard to
the horse in his possession, and which conduct was a violation
of the legal duty he owed to the owner of such horse, irrespective of contract. The case was a clear instance of a
proper recovery based upon collateral facts, and not founded
upon any original illegal contract.
The same principle was held in Welcb v. Wesson, 6 Gray, 505,
as the damage done plaintiff by the wilful act of defendant in
running into him with his sleigh had nothing to do with the
race they were engaged in.
To the sime effect is Woodman v. Hubbard,5 Foster, [N. H.]
67. The act of damage to the horse upon which the liability
rested was not connected with or part of the illegal Sunday
hiring.
We think it clear that these cases cited as authority for a
recovery in this case upon the ground of completion of the
illegal contract or of a new contract upon a good consideration,
do not touch the case before us, with the possible exception of
Sharp v. Taylor, 8apra, and that case ought not to be
extended.
In the case at bar, the action depends upon the entire
contract between the parties, part of which we hold was
illegal. The partnership part of the agreement cannot be
separated from the rest. The complainant's claim to profits
rests upon the entire contract; his right is based upon that
which is illegal and utterly void, and he cannot separate his
cause of action from the illegal part, and claim a recovery
upon the written portion providing for and evidencing the
partnership.
We come now to a consideration of the two cases upon which
the counsel for the complainant specially rely for the maintenance of this action. They are Brooks v. Martin, 2 Wall.
70, and Planters'Bank v. Union Bank, 16 Wall. 483. Of the

McMULLEN v. HOFFMA-N.
Opinion of the Court.

two cases, Brooks v. ffartin is the more like this one, although
the cases are by no means precisely similar. The partnership
in that case was stated by the court, in its opinion, to have
been really engaged, probably with the full knowledge of all
its members, in dealing in soldiers' claims long before any
scrip or land warrants were issued by the Government and
contrary to the ninth section of the act of February 11, 184:7,
providing for the granting of land warrants to be issued to
the soldiers.
The main.object of the ninth section of the act was, as the
court stated, to protect the soldiers against improper contracts
of the precise character of those shown in the record. It was
further said that the traffic for which this partnership was
formed was illegal, and that if a soldier who had sold his
claim to these partners had refused to perform his contract or
to do any act which was necessary to give them the full benefit
of their purchase, no court would have compelled him to do it
or give them any relief against it; or if one of the partners,
after the signing of the articles, had said to the other, "I refuse
to proceed with this partnership because the purposes of it are
illegal," the other partner would have been entirely without
remedy. And if, on the other hand, one of the partners had
said, "I have bought one hundred soldiers' claims, for which
I have agreed to pay a certain sum which I require you to
advance, according to your contract," the other partner might
have refused to comply with such demand, and no court
would have given either of the partners any remedy for such
refusal.
The court further stated that upon the facts existing, all the
claims purchased by the partner having been turned into land
warrants and the warrants having been sold or located, and
where the purchase of the claim had been made prior to the
date of the warrant, assignments having been subsequently
made by the soldiers, and the portion of the lands located
having been sold partly for cash and partly on mortgage, and
the assets of the partnership consisting then almost wholly of
cash securities or of lands ;-all these facts appearing, the
partner in whose possession the profits of the partnership

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

were could be compelled to account by the other partner, and
that the fact that such partner had given a release procured
from him by fraud was no bar to his action for such an
accounting.
The action was sustained upon the theory that the purpose
of the partnership agreement had been fully closed and completed; that substantially all the profits arising therefrom had
been invested in other securities or in lands; and that therefore it did not lie in the mouth of the partner who had by
fraudulent means obtained possession and control of these
funds to say to the other that the original contract was
illegal. The wrong originally done or intended to the soldier
had been wiped out by the acts of the soldier and his waiver
of any claim by reason of the illegal contract. The transactions which were illegal, the court said, had become accomplished facts, and could not be affected by any action which
the court might take. The cases of Sharp v. Taylor, Tenant
v. Elliott, Farmer v. Russell, Thomson v. Thomson and 3eBlair ,v. Gibbes were cited as authority for the proposition.
We have already adverted to each of them, and we admit
it is quite difficult to see how, with the exception of Sharp v.
Taylor, the principle upon which they were decided could be
applied to the case then before the court.
There is a difference between the case before us and that of
Brooks v. .Xartin, because in the latter *case the fact existed
that the transactions, in regard to which the cause of action
was based, were not fraudulent, and they related in some
sense to private matters, while in the case before the court
the entire contract was a fraud and was illegal, and related to
a public letting by a municipal corporation for work involving
a large amount of money, and in which the whole municipality was vitally interested. It may be difficult to base a
distinction of piinciple upon these differences. We do not
now decide whether they exist or not. We simply say that
taking that case into due and fair consideration, we will not
extend its authority at all beyond the facts therein stated.
We think it should not control the decision of the case now
before us.

McMULLEN v. HOFFMIAN.
Opinion of the Court.

In Planer' Bank v. Union Bank, 8sPra, Confederate
bonds had been sent by one party to the other for sale, and
the bonds had been sold by such party as agent of the plaintiff and their price paid to such agent of the party seeing, and
the court held that an action would lie to recover the proceeds of that sale thus paid to the plaintiff's agent, although
no suit could have been maintained by plaintiff against the
purchaser for the purchase price of the bonds, because their
sale was an illegal transaction. But when the purchase price
of the bonds was paid, it certainly did not rest with the person who received the money upon an express or implied
promise to pay it over to set up the illegality of the original
transaction. When the bank received the funds, there was
raised an implied promise to pay them to their owner, and a
recovery could be sustained upon the same ground taken in
Tenant v. Eliott and the other cases above mentioned.
It is impossible to refer to all the cases cited from the
various state courts regarding this question. Some of them
we should hesitate to follow. The cases we have commented
upon we think give no support for the claim that the case
now before us forms any exception to the rule which, as we
believe, clearly embraces it. We must take the whole agreement, and remember that the action is between the original
parties to it; that there is no collateral contract and no new
consideration and no liability of a third party. The partnership is but a portion of the whole agreement.
We must, therefore, come back to the proposition that to
permit a recovery in this case is in substance to enforce an
illegal contract, and one which is illegal because it is against
public policy to permit it to stand. The court refuses to
enforce such a contract and it permits defendant to set up its
illegality, not out of any regard for the defendant who sets
it up, but only on account of the public interest. It has been
often stated in similar cases that the defence is a very dishonest one, and it lies ill in the mouth of the defendant to
allege it, and it is only allowed for public considerations and
in order the better to secure the public against dishonest
transactions. To refuse to grant either party to an illegal

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

contract judicial aid for the enforcement of his alleged rights
under it tends strongly towards reducing the number of such
transactions to a minimum. The more plainly parties understand that when they enter into contracts of this nature they
place themselves outside the protection of the law, so far as
that protection consists in aiding them to enforce such contracts, the less inclined will they be to enter into them. In
that way the public secures the benefit of a rigid adherence
to the law.
Being of the opinion that the contract proved in this case
was illegal in the sense that it was fraudulent, and entered
into for improper purposes, the law will leave the parties as
it finds them.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals was right,
and must be
Afflrmed.

UNITED STATES v. DUDLEY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE SECOND
CIRCUIT.
No. 103. Argued April 19, 1899. -Decided May, 22, 1S99.
Sawed boards and plank, planed on one side and grooved, or tongued and
grooved, should be classified under the tariff act of August 28, 1894, 28
Stat. 508, as dressed lumber, and admitted free of duty.

THIs case originated in a petition filed in the Circuit Court
of the United States for the District of Vermont, for the review of a decision of the board of general appraisers to the
effect that certain imports made by the petitioner into the port
of Newport, of "sawed boards and plank, planed on one side,
tongued and grooved," and entered as "dressed lumber," were
not entitled to be admitted free of duty as "sawed boards,
plank, deals and other lumber, rough or dressed,"' under the
tariff act of August 28, 1891.
In June, 1895, Dudley imported from Canada eight carloads

