OCTOBER TERM, 189g.
Statement of the Case.

in 'he report of the Commissioner of Indian Affairs for 1898,
tage 4'79, consider the subject in all its aspects, and set forth
te' various treaties, tribal constitutions and laws, and the
-action of the many tribal courts, commissions and councils
which assumed to deal with it, but we have not been called
on to go into these matters, as our conclusion is that we are
confined to the questionof constitutionality merely.
*As we hold the entire legislation constitutional, the're'sult is'
that all the
JudgmenM mu se afflrmed.
"MR. JusTIcE WHITE and MR. JsT cE McKENxA dissented as
.to the extent of the jurisdiction of this court only.

OFFICE SPECIALTY MANUFACTURING COMPANY
v. FENTON METALLIC MANUFACTURING COMPANY.
.,PEAL

FRo

THE CpURT OF AP-PALS FOR THE DISTmrT OF
COLUMIA.

Wo. 253. Argued April 20,1899. -Decided

May 16, 1899.

Every element of the combination described in the first and second claims
of letters patent No. 450,124, issued April 7, 1891, to Horace J. Hoffman
for Improvements in storage cases for books, is found in previous devices,
and, limiting the patent to the precise construction shown, none of the
defendant's devices can be treated as infringements.

Tins was a bill in equity filed in the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia by the Fenton Metallic Manufacturing
Company against the appellant to recover for the infringement of letters patent number 450,124-, issued April 7, 1891,
to Horace J. Hoffman, for improvements in storage cases for

books.
In the specification the patentee declares that "the object
of my invention is to facilitate the handling and prevent the
abrasion and injury of heavy books, etc. It consists, essen-

SPECIALTY ]XANFG. CO. v. FENTON MANFG. CO.

493

Statement of the Case.

tially, of the peculiar arrangement of the-guiding and supporting rollers, and of the peculiarities in the construction of
the case and shelves hereinafter specifically set forth."
The following drawing of one of the shelves exhibits the
peculiar features of the invention. The drawing explains
itself so perfectly that no excerpt from the specification is
necessary to an understanding of the claims.

The two claims alleged to have been infringed are as
follows:
"1. In a storage case for books, etc., the combination of a
supporting rack or shelf, composed of metallic strips and having a redntrant bend or recess in its front edge and rollers
journalled in said rack and projecting above and in front of
the same on each side of said bend or recess, substantially as
described.
"2. In a book shelf, the combination of a supporting frame,
a series of horizontal rollers, the front roller in two separated
sections, the intermediate part of the frame being carried
back to permit the admission of the hand between said roller
sections, substantially as described.'
I The defendant, the Office Specialty Manufacturing Company, was the assignee through mesne assignments of Jewell
and Yawman, whose application for a patent, filed November
6, 1888, was put in interference in the Patent Office with the
application of Hoffman, filed February 12, 1887, and the interference proceedings on behalf of Jewell and Yawinan were

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

conducted by the parties who subsequently formed the Office
Specialty Manufacturing Company. The Examiner of Interferences, the Board of Examiners-in-Chief, and the Commissioner of Patents successively decided in favor of Hoffman, to
whose assignees the letters patent were subsequently issued.
During the pendency of the interference, the Hoffman application was divided, as permitted by the rules of the Patent
Office, to secure a patent for certain features not involved
in the interference.
Upon a hearing on pleadings and proofs a decree was entered
adjudging the patent to be valid, and the first and second
claims thereof to have been infringed by the defendant; and
the case was sent to the auditor to determine and report -the
profits and damages resulting from the infringement.
After certain proceedings, taken with respect to several
infringing devices, not necessary to be here set forth, a final
decree was entered in favor of the plaintiff, which, so far as
respects the validity of the patent, was affirmed by the Court
of Appeals, with an allowance for damages, which had been
,rejected by the Supreme Court. 12 App. Cas. D. 0. 201.
Whereupon the defendant appealed to this court.
-Mr.Melville Church for appellant.
was on his brief.

.Mr.Joseph B. Church,

Mr. Charles Elwood Foster for appellee.
Mn. Jusmo. BRowN delivered the opinion of the court.

We consider the question of the validity of this patent as
the decisive one in this case. The patent was adjudged to
be valid by the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia,
as well as by the Court of Appeals. It had been held to be
invalid by Judge Lacombe, sitting in the Circuit Court for tbe
Southern District of New York, upon a motion for a preliminary injunction, Fenton Aetallic Manfacturing Co. v. Chase,
73 Fed. Rep. 831, and by Judge Wheeler, upon a final hearing of the same case, 84 Fed. Rep. 893.

SPECIALTY MNFG. CO v. FENTON MNFG. CO.

495

Opinion of the Court.

The elements of Hoffman's combination, as described in the
first claim alleged to be infringed, are (1) a supporting rack
or shelf composed of metallic strips; (2) a re6ntrant bend or
recess in its front edge for the insertion of the hand; and, (3)
rollers journalled in the rack and projecting above and in front
of the same on each side, of the recess. In the second claim
the combination is described as (1) a supporting frame (apparently including one of wood as well as of metal); (2) a series
of horizontal rollers, the front rollers being in two separated
sections; (3) the intermediate part of the frame being carried
back to permit the admission of the hand between said roller
sections. It may be remarked in passing that none of the
decisions in the Patent Office in the interference proceedings
dealt with the question of prior devices.
The introduction of rollers in book shelves-is undoubtedly a
convenient and valuable device for preventing the abrasion of
large and heavy books which are obliged to be laid flat upon the
shelves, especially when they are subjected to frequent handling; but the employment of roller shelves at the time Hoffman made his application for a patent (February 12, 1887,) was
by no means a novelty. Indeed, plaintiff's own expert testifies
that "it was common to use what were called roller shelves,
the same consisting of frames or supports and longitudinal
parallel rollers, which extended the entire length of the -helfand served to reduce friction in putting books upon and withdrawing them from the shelf. One form of. such shelves
is shown in cbmplainant's exhibit, Office Specialty ManuThis exhibit
facturing Company's catalogue, Figure 16."
shows a shelf frame made of bent steel, firmly riveted together,
containing three continuous rollers, each of the full length of
the shelf made of steel in tubular form. Continuing the
witness said:
"The use of such shelves was, and is, however, limited because of certain defects; for instance, one of the principal
defects is the liability of the person placing the book upon
the shelf to have the fingers pinched between the book and
the front roller in placing the book on the shelf. With light,
small bdoks this, of course, was not. a matter of special ia-

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

portance, and the shelves can be used with such books, but
the class of books for which such shelves are especially
adapted is heavy books, such as are used in keeping Government records, weighing, in many instances, from ten to twentysix or even thirty pounds, and quite large, and with such books
the liability to injure the fingers in putting them on and taking
them from the shelf is very great."
So long before Hoffman's application as the year 1870,
Samuel H. Harris had obtained a patent, No. 107,042, for a
shelf of three parallel wooden rollers covered with sheet
metal, the specification of which seems to assume that wooden
rollers had theretofore been used in iron cases for books.
A patent issued in 1876 to John L. Boone, No. 182,157, describes his invention as consisting "in attaching rollers to the
front edges of book shelves, so that when a book is withdrawn
from or placed upon the shelf it will move over the roller instead of over the edge of the shelf." This is to obviate the
danger of the book being abraded by the sharp corners of
the shelf over which it is dragged, especially if the shelf is
higher than the level of the person's head who handles it.
A patent issued in 1885 to Walter ]H. Conant shows a similar
arrangement of front rollers to protect the books.
-In a patent to Marion T. Wolfe of October 7, 1879, No.
220,265, there is shown a book case in which three series of"
short rollers, each inserted in what the patentee calls a "box, )
are employed as a support for the books. These boxes run
at right angles to the front of the case, and they are so constructed that the hand may be introduced between any two
series of rollers in' order to more readily grasp the back of
the book, without liability of the fingers being caught by the

edge of the shelf.
,. A device somewhat similar to that patented to Harris is
.shown in a patent issued in 1886 to A. Lemuel Adams, wherein
a shelf is provided with a series of parallel short rollers, the
front rollers being supported upon spring arms, which are carried forward so as to permit of the introduction of the hand
between them, and thus facilitate the withdrawal of the book,
without liability of contact of the fingers with any portion of

SPECIALTY MANFG. CO. v. FENTON MANFG. CO.,

497

Opinion of the Court.

the shelf. When a book is to be placed in position, it is first
rested upon the spring rollers, which by their elasticity assist
in forcing the book upon the fixed rollers, when it is easily
passed by such rollers to its proper place. The extension of.
the elastic rollers in front of the shelf would seem to prevent
the use of doors in front of the shelves, and it is clear they
do not support the books when in place.
There was also oral testimony showing that there were in
use in the court house in Richmond, Indiana, in the year 1873,
and thereafter, unpatented roller shelves for books; consisting
of a wooden shelf, having the ordinary hand hole at the
front, upon each side of which there were short rollers similar to Hoffman's, though some distance from the front edge,
which enabled the back of the book to be readily grasped
and easily withdrawn upon the rollers. The evidence showed
that hundreds of these rollers were used, and one of them,
taken from the cofurt house in Richmond, was introduced as
an exhibit.
Comparing these several devices with the patent in suit,
it is manifest that every element of the combination, described in the first and second claims, is found in one or the
other of such devices. Roller shelves are found in all the
patents above described as well as in the Richmond shelf, and
if there were any invention in substituting metal for a wooden
frame, it appears to have been anticipated in the shelf used by
the Specialty Company, known as figure 16, the existence of
which before the H1offman application for a patent is admitted
by plaintiff's expert as well as by the manager of the plaintiff
corporation. It was no novelty to place rollers at the front
edges of the shelves, so as to project above and in front of the
shelves, as this is shown in the Boone, Conant and Adams
patent, and in the defendant's metallic shelf, used prior to the
Hoffman application. The employment of semicircular hand
holes or recesses, for more readily grasping the books, is such
a familiar device in upright partitions for holding books that'
scarcely any banking or record office is without them, and the
court may properly take judicial notice of their use long prior
to this patent. Brown v. Piyer, 91 U. S. 37; Terhune v.
vOL .mxxiv--2

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

Phillips,99 U. S. 592; King v. Gallun, 109 U. S. 99; Phillips
Y. Detroit, 111 U. S. 604, 606. If there were any invention
in applying them to roller shelves, Hoffman is not entitled
to the credit of it, since they are shown in the so-called Richmond shelf. The construction of the Wolfe and Adams pat
ents is also such as to permit the introduction of the hand for
grasping the book without coming in contact with the edge
of the shelves.
Putting the Hoffman patent in its most favorable light, it
is very little, if anything, more than an aggregation of prior
-well-known devices, each constituent of which aggregation
performs its own appropriate function in the old way. Where
a combination of old devices produces a new result such combination is doubtless patentable, but where the combination
is not only of old elements, but of old results, and no new
function is evolved from such combination, it falls within the
rulings of this court in Hailes v. Van Wormer, 20 Wall. 353,
368; JReckendorfer v. .Faber, 92 U. S. 347, 356; Phillips v.
Detroit, 111 U. S. 604; Brinkerhof v. Aloe, 146 U. S. 515,
517;"Palmer v. Corning, 156 U. S. 342, 345; Richarde'v,
Ohase Elevator Co., 158 U. S. 299. Hoffman may have succeeded in producing a shelf more convenient and more salable
than any which preceded it, but he has done it principally,
if not wholly, by the exercise of mechanical skill.
If there be any invention at all in this patent, it is not to
be found in the combination described in the claims, but by a
reference to the drawing, and in the words "substantially as
described." This would confine the plaintiff to a metallic
frame divided longitudinally into three sections, each fitted
with short rollers, two of which project above and forward of
the front bar of the frame, which is bent inward in front of
the middle section to form the "re~ntrant bend or recess"
for the insertion of the hand.
But in whatever light this device be considered, it is evident
that, limiting -the patent to the precise construction shown,
none of, the defendant's devices can be treated as infringements, since none of them show a shelf divided into thrbe
sections, and none of them, except possibly one, the manu-

WADE v. TRAVIS COtNTY.
Statement of the Case.

facture of which was stopped, indicate a bend in the front bar
of the frame to form the recess for the insertion of the hand.
The decree of the court below must be
.Reversed, and the case remanded to the Court of A eal8
with directions to order the bill to be dismissed.

WADE v. TR/AVIS COUNTY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF

APPEALS FOOR THE FIFTH

CIRCUIT.
No. 267.

Argued April 26, 1899: -Decided

May 15, 1899.

MlitchelZ County v. Bank of .Paducah, 91 Texas, 361; which was an action
upon interest coupons on bonds issued by the county for the purpose
of building a court house and jail,-and for constructing and purchasing
bridges, in which it was held that as the constitution and laws of Texas
authorizing the creation of a' debt for such purposes require that provision should be made for ,the interest and for a sinking fund for the
redemption of the debt, it was the duty of the court, in an action brought
by a bona fide holder of bonds issued under the law to so construe it as
to make them valid and" give effect to them, is followed by this court,
even if it should be found to differ from previous decisions of the
Supreme Court of Texas, in force when the decision of the court below
in this case was made.

THIS was an action brought in the. Circuit Court for the
Western District of Texas by the plaintiff Wade, who is a
citizen of the State of Illinois, against the county of Travis,
to recover upon certain interest coupons detached from fortyseven bonds issued by the defendant for the purpose of
builuing an iron bridge across the Colorado River.
The petitioner set forth that in July, 1888, the defendant,
being authorized so to do, entered into a contract with the
King Iron Bridge Manufacturing Company of Cleveland, Ohio,
for the construction of a bridge for public use over the Colorado River, the company agreeing to complete the same by
November 15, 1888, in consideration of which the defendant

