OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

as conveyances, decided that the lands described in that of
plaintiff did not embrace the lands in controversy, and that
the lands described in: that of defendant did embrace them.
This was but the interpretation of written instruments, and if
it were even apparent to us to be wrong, which we cannot say,
we should nevertheless be without power to review it.
In Remington Paper Co. v. Watson, 173 U. S. 443, we had
occasion to repeat and affirm the rule announced in Eustis v.
Bolles, 150 U. S. 361, 370, "that when we find it unnecessary
to decide any Federal question, and when the state court has
based its decision on a local or state question, our logical
course is to dismiss the writ of error."
The writ of erroris dismissed.

ATCHISON, TOPEKA AND SANTA FE RAILROAD
COMPANY v. MATTHEWS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME- COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
No. 147.

Submitted January 18, 1899. -Decided

April 17, 1899.

The provision in ยง 2 of c. 155 of the acts of Kansas of 1885, entitled "An
act relating to the liability of railroads for damages by fire," that, ", in
all actions commenced under this act, if the plaintiff shall recover, there
shall be allowed him by the court a reasonable attorney's fee, which shall
become a part of the judgment," must, for reasons stated in the opinion
of the court, be sustained as legislation authorized by the Constitution
of the United States.

THE statement of the case will be found in the opinion of
the court.
-Mr.Robert Dunla, and -Mr. . D. Renna, for plaintiff in
error, submitted on their brief.
No appearance for defendants in error.

"ATCHISON, TOPEKA &c. RAILROAD v. MATTHEWS.

97

Opinion of the Court.

Mm. JusTIoE BREwE

delivered the opinion of the court.

In 188 the legislature of Kansas passed the following act:
"An act relating to the liability of railroads for-damages

by fire.
"SE TioN 1. Be it enacted by the legislature of the State
of .ansas: That in all actions against any railway company,
organized or doing business in this State, for damages by fire,
caused by the operating of said railroad, it shall be only necessary for the plaintiff in said-action to establish the fact that
said fire complained of was caused by the operating of said
railroad, and the amount of his damages, (which proof shall
be prima facie evidence of negligence on the part of said
railroad): Provided, That in estimating the damages under
this act, the contributory negligence of the plaintiff shall be
taken into consideration.
"SEC. 2. In all actions commenced under this act, if the
plaintiff shall recover, there shall be allowed him by the court
a reasonable attorney's .fee, which shall become a part of the
judgment." (Sess. Laws 1885, c. 155, 258.)
Under it an action was brought in the district court of
Cloud County which resulted in a judgment against the railroad company, plaintiff in error, for $2094 damages and $25
attorney's fees. This judgment having been affirmed by the
Supreme Court of the State, the company brought the case,
here on error.
All questions of fact are settled by the decision of the state
courts, Hedrice v. Atckison, Topeka &c. Railroad,,167 U. S.
673,677, and cases cited in the'opinion, and the single matter
for our consideration is the constitutionality of this statute. It
is contended that it is in conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment to the Federal Constitution, and this contention was
distinctly ruled upon by the Supreme Court of the State adversely to the railroad company. In support of this contention great reliance is placed upon Gulf, Colorado & Santa F4
Railway v. Ellis, 165 U. S. 150. In that case a statute of
Texas allowing an attorney's fee to the plaintiffs in actions
against railroad corporations on claims, not exceeding in
VOL. cLxxiv-7

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

amount $50, for personal services rendered or labor done, or
for damages, or for overcharges on freight, or for stock killed
or injured, was adjudged unconstitutional. It was held to be
simply a statute imposing a penalty on railroad corporations
for failing to pay certain debts, and not one to enforce compliance with any police regulations. It was so regarded by
the Supreme Court of the State, and its construction was
accepted in this court as correct. While the right to classify
was conceded, it was said that such classification must be based
upon some difference bearing a reasonable and just relation
to the act in respect to which the classification is attempted;
that no mere arbitrary selection can ever be justified by
calling it classification. And there is no good reason why
.ailroad corporations alone should be punished for
not paying
their debts. Compelling the payment of debts is not a police
regulation. We see no reason to change the views then
expressed, and if the statute before us were the counterpart
of that, we should be content to refer to that case as conclusive.
But while there is a similarity, yet there are important differencesi and differences which in our judgment compel an opposite conclusion. The purpose of this statute is not to compel
the payment of debts, but to secure the utmost care on the
part of railroad companies to prevent the escape of fire from
their moving trains. This is obvious from the fact that liability for damages by fire is not cast upon such corporations
in all cases, but only in those in which the fire is "caused
by the operating" of the road. It is true that no spepial act
of precaution was required of the railroad companies, failure to
do which was to be visited with this penalty, so that it is -not
precisely like the statutes imposing doublM damages for stock
killed where there has been a failure to fence. AtXissouri
Pac. Railway v. Humes, 115 U. S. 512. And yet its purpose
is not different. Its monition to the railroads is not, pay your
debts without suit or you will, in addition, have to pay attorney's fees; but rather, see to it that no fire escapes from your
locomotives, for if it does you will be liable, not merely for
the damage it causes, but also for the reasonable attorney's
f'es of the owner of the property injured or destroyed. It

ATOHISON, TOPEKA &c. RAILROAD v. MATTHEWS.

99

Opinion of the Court.

has been frequently before the Supreme Court of Kansas, has
always been so interpreted by that court, and its validity
sustained, on that ground. In -MissouriPao.Railway v. Xern'ill, 40 Kansas, 404, 408, it was said:
"The objection that this legislation is special and unequal
cannot be sustained. The dangerous element employed and
the hazards to persons and property arising from the running
of trains and the operation of railroads, justifies such a law;
and the fact that all persons and corporations brought under
its influence are subjected to the same duties and liabilities,
under similar circumstances, disposes of the objections raised."
And in the opinion filed in the present case, 58 Kansas,
447, 450, that court observed:
"Our statute is somewhat in the nature of a police regulation, designed to enforce care on the part of railroad companies to prevent the communication of fire and the destruction
of property along railroad lines. It is not intended merely to
impose a burden on railroad corporations that private persons
are not required to bear, and the remedy offered is one the
legislature has the right to give in such cases. This is the
view heretofore held by this court, which we see no reason for changing. St. Zouis & San Francisco Railway v.
Snaveley, 47 Kansas, 637; Same v. Curtis, 48 Kansas, 179;
Same v. 1fco.3fullen, Id. 281; .MissouriPa. R. R. Co. v. Henning, Id. 465."
It is true that the Ellis case was one to recover damages
for the killing of a colt by a passing train. And so it might be
argued that the protection of the track from straying stock
and the protection of stock from moving trains would, within
the foregoing principles, uphold legislation imposing an attorney's fee in actions against railroad corporations. We were
not insensible to this argument when that case was considered,
but we accepted the interpretation of the statute and its purpose given by the Supreme Court of Texas, as appears from
this extract from our opinion (p. 153): "The Supreme Court
of the State considered this statute as a whole and held it
valid, and as such it is presented to us for consideration.
Considered as such, it is simply a statute imposing a penalty

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

upon railroad corporations for a failure to pay certain debts."
And again, referring specifically to this matter, (p. 158):
"While this action is for stock killed, the recovery of attorney's fees cannot be sustained upon the theory just suggested.
There is no fence law in Texas. The 'legislature of the State
has not deemed it necessary for the protection of life or property to require railroads to fence their tracks, and as no duty
is imposed, there can be r-o penalty for non-performance.
Indeed, the statute does not proceed upon any such theory;
it is broader in its scope. Its object is to compel the payment
of the several classes of debts named, and was so regarded by
the Supreme Court of the State." Indeed, the limit in amount,
($50,) found in that statute, made it clear that no police regulation was intended, for if it were, the more stock found on
the track the greater would be the danger and the more
imperative the need of regulation. and penalty.
So that according to the interpretation placed upon the
Texas statute by its Supreme Court, its purpose was gendrally
to compel the payment of small debts, and the fact that among
the debts so provided for was the liability for stock killed was
not sufficient to justify us in separating the statute into fragments and upholding one part on a theory inconsistent with
the policy of the State; while on the other hand, the purpose
of this statute is, as declared by the Supreme Court of Kansas,
protection against fire -a matter in the nature of a police
-regulation.
It may be suggested that this line of argument leads to the
jonclusion that a statute of one State 1hose purpose is declared by its Supreme Court to be a matter of police regulation will be upheld by this court as not in conflict with the
Federal Constitution, while a statute of another State, precisely similar in its terms, will be adjudged in conflict with
that Constitution if the Supreme Court of that State interprets
its purpose and scope as entirely outside police regulation.
But this by no means follows. This court is not concluded by
the opinion of the Supreme Court of the State. Tiek TFo v.
Hopkins, 118 U. S.356, 366. It forms its own independent
judgment as to the scope and purpose of a statute, while -of

ATCHISON, TOPEKA &c. RAILROAD v. MATTHEWS.

101

Opinion of the Court.

course leaning to any interpretation which has been placed
upon it by the highest court of the State. We have referred
to the interpretation placed upon the respective statutes of
Texas and Kansas by their highest courts, not as conclusive,
but as an interpretation towards which we ought to lean, and
which, in fact, commends itself to our judgient.
That there is peculiar danger of fire from the running of
railroad trains is obvious. The locomotives, passing, as they
do at great rates of speed, and often when the wind .is blowing a gale, will, unless the utmost care is taken, (and sometimes in spite of such care,) scatter fire along the track. The
danger to adjacent property is one which is especially felt in a
prairie State like Kansas. It early attracted the attention of
its legislature, and in 1860-long before any railroads were
bilt in the State- this statute was passed, (Laws 1860, c.
70, sec. 2; Comp. Laws, c. 101, sec. 2): "If any person shall
set on fire any woods, marshes or prairies, so as thereby to
occasion any damage to any other person, such person shall
make satisfaction for such damage to the party -injured, to be
recovered in an action." As held in Emerson v. Gardiner, 8
Kansas, 452, its effect was to change the rule of the common
law, which gave redress only when the person setting the fire
did so wantonly or through negligence, whereas by this statute
the mere fact of setting fire to woods, marshes or prairies gave
a right to the party injured to recover damages. And in the
years after the-railroads began to be constructed, and prior
to the passage of the act before us, the reports of the Supreme
Court of that State show that nearly a score of actions had
been brought to that court for consideration, in some of which
great damage had been done by fire escaping from moving
trains. Fire catching in the dry grass often runs for miles,
destroying not merely crops but houses and barns. Indeed,
in one case, Atchison, Toveka &o. Railroad v. Stanford, 12
Kansas, 354, it appeared that the fire escaping had swept
across the prairies for over four miles, and one ground of
objection to the recovery was that the distance of the property destroyed from the railroad track was so great and the
fire had passed over so many intervening farms that it could

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

not rightfully be held that the proximate cause of the injury
was the escape of fire from the locomotive. No other work
done, or industry carried on, carries with it so much of danger
from escaping fire.
In 1887 the legislature of the State of Missouri felt constrained to pass an act making every railroad corporation
responsible in damages for all property destroyed by fire
communicated directly or indirectly from its engines, and
giving the corporation an insurable interest in the property
along its road. This statute was, after a full examination of
all the authorities, held by this court a valid exercise of the
legislative power. St. Louis & San F'ancisco Railway v.
-rlathews, 165 U. S. 1. So, when the legislature of Kansas
made a classification, and included in one class all corporations engaged in this business of peculiar hazard, it did sa
upon a difference having a reasonable relation to the object
sought to be accomplished, to wit, the securing of protection
of property from damage or destruction by fire.
While, as heretofore noticed, no special act of precaution
was required, no statutory duty imposed upon railroad corporations in respect to protection against escaping fire, and a
similar omission in the legislation of Texas was referred to
in the opinion in the Ellis case as strengthening the argument
that no police regulation was intended, yet we are of opinion
that such omission is not conclusive upon the question of
the validity of the statute. We have no right to consider
the wisdom of such legislation. Our inquiry runs only to the
matter of legislative power. If, in order to accomplish a given
beneficial result - a result which depends on the action of
a corporation- the legislature has the power to prescribe a
specific duty and punish a failure to comply therewith by
a penalty, either double damages or attorney's fees, has it not
equal power to prescribe the same penalty for failing to accomplish the same result, leaving to the corporation the selection
of the means it deems best therefor? Does the power of the
legislature depend on the method it pursues to accomplish the
result? As individuals we may think it better that the legislature prescribe the specifio duties which the corporations must

ATCHISON, TOPEKA &c. RAILLOAD v. MATTHEWS.

103

Opinion of the- Court.

perform; We may think it better that the legislation should
be like that of Missouri, prescribing an absolute liability, instead of that of Kansas, making the fact of fire 2rimafacie
evidence of negligence; but clearly as a court we may not
interpose our personal views as to the wisdom or policy of
either form of legislation. It cannot be too often said that
forms are matters of legislative consideration; results and
power only are to be considered by the courts.
Many cases have been before this court, involving the power
of state legislatures to impose special duties or liabilities upon
individuals and corporations, or classes of them,,and while the
principles of separation between those cases which have been
adjudged to be within the power of the legislature and those
beyond its power, are not difficult of comprehension or statement, yet their application often becomes very troublesome,
especially when a case is near to the dividing line. It is easy
to distinguish between the full light of day and the darkness
of midnight, but often very difficult to determine whether a
given moment in the twilight hour is before or after that in
which the light predominates over the darkness. The equal
protection of the law which is guaranteed by the Fourteenth
Amendment does not forbid classification. Thht has been
asserted in the strongest language. Barbier: v. Cornolly, 113
U. S. 27. In that case, after in general terms declaring that
the Fourteenth Amendment designed to secure the equal protection of the laws, the court added pp. 31 and 32):
."But neither the amendment- broad and comprehensive
as it is-nor any other amendment, was designed to interfere
with the power of the State, sometimes termed its police
power, to prescribe regulations to prom6te the health, peace,
morals, education and good order of the people, and to legislate so as to increase the industries of the State, develop its
resources, and add to its wealth and prosperity. From the
very necessities of society, legislation of a special character,
having these objeots in view, must often be had in certain districts, such as for draining marshes and irrigating arid plains.
Special burdens are often necessary for general benefits -for
supplying water, preventing fires, lighting districts, cleaning

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

streets, opening parks, and many other objects. Regulations
for these purposes may press with more or less weight upon
one than upon another, but they are designed, not to impose
.unequal or unnecessary restrictions upon any one, but to promote, with as little inconvenience as possible, the general good.
Though, in many respects, necessarily special in their character, they do not furnish just ground of complaint if they
operate alike upon all persons and property under the same
circumstances and conditions. Class legislation, discriminating against some and favoring others, is prohibited, but legislation which, in carrying out a public purpose, is limited in its
application, if within the sphere of its operation it affects alike
all persona similarly situated, is not within the amendment."
This declaration has, in various language, been often repeated, and the power of classification upheld whenever such
classification proceeds upon any difference which has a reasonable relation to the object sought to be accomplished. It
is also clear that the legislature (which has power in advance
to determine what rights, privileges and duties it will give to
and impose upon a corporation which it is creating) has, under
the generally reserved right to alter, amend or repeal the
charter, power to imp6se new duties and new liabilities upon
such aitificial entities of its creation. St. 1ouis &c. Railway
Company v. Paul, 173 U. S. 404. It is also a maxim of constitutional law that a legislature is presumed to have acted
within constitutional limits, upon full knowledge of the facts,
and with the purpose of promoting the interests of the people
as a whole, and courts' will not lightly hold that an act duly
passed by the legislature was one in the enactment of which
it has transcended its.power. On the other hand, it is also
true that the equal protection guaranteed by the Constitution
forbids the legislature to select a person, natural or artificial,
and impose upon him or it burdens and liabilities which are
not cast upon others similarly situated. It cannot pick out
one individual, or one corporation, and enact that whenever
he or it is sued the judgment shall be for double damages, or
subject to an attorney fee in favor of the plaintiff, when no
other individual or corporation is subjected to the same rule.

ATCHISON, TOPEKA &c. RAILROAD v. MATTHEWS.

105

Opinion of the Court.

Neither can it make a classification of individuals or corporations which is purely arbitrary, and impose upon such class
special burdens and liabilities. Even where the selection is
not obviously unreasonable and arbitrary, if the discrimination is based upon matters which have no relation to the
object sought to be accomplished, the same conclusion of
unoonstitutionality is affirmed. Yick Wo v. Hoklns, sura,
forcibly illustrates this. In that case a municipal ordinance
of San Francisco, designed to prevent the Chinese from carrying on the laundry business was adjudged void. This court
looked beyond the mere letter of the ordinance to the condition of things as they existed in. San Francisco, and saw that
under the guise of regulation an arbitrary classification was
intended and accomplished.
While cases on either side and far away from the dividing
line, are easy of disposition, the difficulty arises as the statute
in question comes near the line of separation. Is the classification or discrimination prescribed thereby purely arbitrary
or has it some basis in that which has a reasonable relation
to the object sought to be accomplished I It is not at all to
be wondered' at that as these doubtful cases come before this
-court the justices have often divided in opinion. To some the
statute presented seemed a mere arbitrary selection; to others
it appeared that there was some reasonable basis of classification. Without attempting to cite all. the cases it may not be
amiss to notice, in addition to those already cited, the follow-:
.ing: -fissouri v. -Lewis,101 U. S. 22; Hayes v. 7 issouri, 120
U. S. 68; Duncan v. Missouri, 152 U. S. 377, 382; .Marchant
v. Pennsylvania Railroad,153 U. S. 380, 389; Chicago, Kan8a8 & Western Railroad v. Pontius, 157 U. S.- 209; Lowe v.
kansas, 163 U. S. 81, 88; Pessy v. Ferguson,163 U. S. 537;
Covington & Lexington Tun pike .Co. v. Sandford, 164. U. S.
578, 597; Jones -v. Brim, 165 U. S. 180; W. U. Tel. Co. v.
indiana, 165 U. S. 304; Chicago, B'urlington &c.Railroad
v. Chicago, 166 U. S. 226, 257; Holden v. Hardy, 169 1U. S.
366; Savings Society v. Multnomah County, 169 U. S. 421;
.Magoun v. Ill. Trust & Savings Bank,V170 U. S. 283, 300;
Tinsley v. Anderson, 171 U. S. 101. In some of the&i the

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Brown, Peckham, McKenna, J.

court was unanimous. In others it was divided; but the
division in all of them was, not upon the principle or rule of
separation, but upon the location of the particular case one
.side or the other of the dividing line.
It is the essence of a classification that upon the class are
cast duties and burdens different from those resting upon the
general public. Thus, when the legislature imposes on railroad corporations a double liability for stock killed by passing
trains it says, in effect, that if suit be brought against a railroad company for stock killed by one of its trains it must
enter into the courts under condiiions different from those
resting on ordinary suitors. If it is beaten in the suit it must
pay not only the dmage which it has done, but twice that
amount. If it succeeds, it recovers nothing. On the other
hand, if it should sue an individual for destruction of its live
stock it could under no circumstances recover any more than
the value of that stock. So that it may be said that in matter
of liability, in case of litigation, it is not placed on an equality
with other corporations and individuals; yet this court has
unanimously said that this differentiation of liability, this inequality of right in the courts, is of no significance upon the
question of constitutidnality. Indeed, the very idea of classification is that of inequality, so that it goes without saying
that the fact of inequality in no manner determines the matter
of constitutionality.
Our conclusion in respect to this statute is that, for the
reasons above stated, giving full force to its purpose as declared by the Supreme Court of Kansas, to the presumption
which attaches to the action of a legislature that it has full
knowledge of the conditions within the State, and intends no
arbitrary selection or punishment, but simply seeks to subserve the general interest of the public, it must be sustained,
and the judgment of the Supreme Court of Kansas is
Afrmed.
MRt. JusTicE HAn,
with whom concurred MR. JusTioE
B~ow , MR. JusTioE PEcEHmA
and MR. JusT o MoKF&A,
dissenting.

ATCHISON, TOPEKA &c. RAILROAD v. MATTHEWS.

10

Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Brbwn, Peckham, McKenna, JJ.

The statute of Kansas, the validity of which is involved-in
the present case, provides in its firstsection that in all actiohs
against a railway company to recover damages resulting from
fire caused by the operating of its road; it shall only be-necessary for the plaintiff to establish the fact that the fire complained of "was cadsed by the operating of said railroad, and
the amount of his damages (which proof shall be primafacie,
evidence of negligence on the part of said railroad): Provided,
that in estimating the damages under this act, the contributory
negligence of the plaintiff shall be taken into consideration."
The second and only other section provides that "if the plaintiff shall recover, there shall be allowed him by the court a
reasonable attorney's fee, which shall become a part of the
judgment."
Manifestly, the statute applies only to suits against railroad
companies, and only to causes of action arising from fire caused
by operating a railroad. It establishes against a defendant
railroad company a rule of evidence as to negligence that does
not apply in any other suit for damages arising from the negligence of a defendant, whether a- corporate or natural person.
It does more. It imposes upon the defendant railroad corporation, if unsuccessful in its defence, a burden not imposed upon
any other unsuccessful defendant sued upon a like or upon a
different cause of action. That burden is the payment of an
attorney's fee as a part of the judgment. Even if. it appears
that the railway company was not guilty of any negligence
whatever or that the plaintiffs were guilty of contributory negligence preventing any recovery in their favor, no such fee nor
any sum beyond ordinary costs is taxed against them.
In Gul, Colorado & S&nta FP Railway v. Ellis, 165 U. S.
150, we had before us a statute of Texas declaring among
other things that any person in that State having "claims for
stock killed or injured by the train of any railway company,
provided that such claim for stock killed or injured shall be
presented to the agent of the company nearest to the point
where such stock was killed or injured, against any railroad
corporation operating a railroad in this State, and the amount
of such claim does not ekceed $50, may present the same, veri-

-

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Brown, Peckham, McKenna, JJ.

fled by his affidavit, for payment to such corporation by filing
it with any station agent of such corporation in any county
where suit may be instituted for the same, and if, at the expiration of thirtyr days after such presentation, such claim has
not been paid or satisfied, he may immediately institute suit
thereon in the proper court; and if he shall finally establish
his, claim, and obtain judgment for the full amount thereof, as
presented for payment to such corporation in such tourt, or
any court to which the suit may have been appealed, he shall
be entitled to recover the amount of such claim and all costs
of suit, and in addition thereto all" -easonable attorney's fees,

provided he has an attorney employed in his case, not to
exceed $10, to be assessed and awarded by the court or jury
trying the issue."
That was an action against the railway company to recover
damages for the killing of an animal. Judgment.was entered
against the company, and it included a special attorney's fee.
That judgment was sustained by the state court.
The question to be decided was whether within the meaning of the Fourteenth Amendment and in the cases specified
the Texas statute did not deny to a railroad corporation the
equal protection of thie laws in that it required the corporation, if unsuccessful in the suit, to pay, in addition to the
ordinary costs taxable in favor of a successful litigant, a
special attorney's fee, but gave it no right if successful to
demand a like fee from its adversary.
After observing that only against railway companies and
only in certain cases was such exaction made, and considering the statute as a whole, this court said: "It is simply a
statute imposing a penalty upon railroad corporations for a
failure to pay certain debts. No indifiduals are thus punished,
and no other corporations. The act singles out a certain class
or debtors and punishes them when for like delinquencies it
punishes no others. They are not treated as other debtors,
or equally with~other debtors. They cannot appeal to the
courts as other litigants under like conditions and with like
.protection. If litigation terminates adversely to them, they
are mulcted in thh attorney's fees of the successful plaintiff;

ATCHISON, TOPEKA &c. RAILROAD v. MATTHEWS.

109

Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Brown, Peckham, McKenna, JJ.

if it terminates in their favor, they recover no attorney's fees.
It is no sufficient answer to say that they are punished
only when adjudged to be in the wrong. They do not enter
the courts upon equal terms. They must pay attorney's fees
if wrong; they do not recover any if right; while their adversaries recover if right- and pay nothing if wrong. In the
suits therefore to which they are parties they are discriminated against, and are not treated as others. They do not
stand equal before the law. They do not receive its equal
protection. All this is obvious from a 'mere inspection of the
statute."
Referring to the previous decisions of this court holding
that corporations were persons within the meaning of the
Fourteenth Amendment of the Constitution of the United
States, this court also said: "The rights and securities guaranteed to persons by that instrument cannot be disregarded in
respect to these artificial entities called corporations any more
than they can be in respect to the individuals who .are the
equitable owners of the property belonging to such corporations. A State has no more power to deny to corporations the
equal protection of the law than it has to individual citizens."
In response to the argument made in that case that it was
competent for the legislature to make a classification of corporations enjoying special privileges, the court said: "That
such corporations may be classified for some purposes is unquestioned. The business in which they are engaged is of a
peculiarly dangerous nature, and the legislature, in the exercise of its police powers, may justly require many things to
be done hy them in order to secure life and property. Fencing of railroad tracks, use of safety couplers, and a multitude
of other thingseasily suggest themselves. And any classification for the imposition of such special duties - duties arising
out of the particular business in which they are engaged
is a just classification and not one within the prohibition of
the Fourteenth Amendment. Thus it is frequently required
that they fence their tracks, and as a penalty for a failure to
fence double damages in case- of loss are inflicted. -issouri
Pacific 1?ailway v. Humes, 115 U. S. 512. But this and all

OCTOBER TERM,.1898.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Brown, Peckham, McKenna, 33.

kindred cases proceed upon the theory of a special duty restfng upon railroad corporations by reason of the business in
which they are engaged - a duty not resting upon others; a
duty which can be enforced by the legislature in any proper
manner; and whether it enforces it by penalties i the way
of fines coming to the State, or by double damages to a party
injured, is immaterial. It is all done in the exercise of the
police power of the State and with a view to enforce just and
reasonable police regulations. While this action is for stock
killed, the recovery of attorney's fees cannot 'be sustained"
.upont the theory just suggested. There is no fence law in
Texas. The legislature of the State has not deemed it necessary forthe protection of life or property to require railroads to fence their tracks, and as no duty is imposed, there
can be no penalty for non-performance. Indeed, the statute
does not proceed upon any such theory; it is broader in its
scope. Its object is to compel the payment of the several
classes of debts named, and was so regarded by the Supreme
Court of the State." Again: "INeither can it be sustained as
a proper means of enforcing the payment of small debts and
preventing any unnecessary litigation in respect to them, be.cause it does not imlose the penalty in all cases where the
,amount in controversy. is within 'the limit named in the statute. Indeed, the statute arbitrarily singles out one class of
debtors and punishes -it for a failure to perform certain duties
-duties
which are equally obligatory upon all debtors; a
punishment not visited by reason of the failure to comply
witli any proper police regulations, or for the protection of
the laboring classes or to prevent litigation about trifling
matters, or in consequence of any special corporate privileges
bestowed by the State. Unless the lekislature may arbitrarily
-select one corporation or one class of corporations, one individaal or one class of individuals, and visit a penalty upon
them which is not imposed upon others guilty of like delinquency, this statute cannot be sustained. But arbitrary selection can never be justified by calling it classification. The
,equal protection demanded by the Fourteenth Amendment
fQrbjd t4his,"

ATCHISON, TOPEKA &c. RAILROAD v. MATTHEWS.

ii

. Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Brown, Peckham, McKenna, JJ.

If the opinions in the lflis case and in this case be taken,
together, the state of the law seems to be this:
1. A State may not require a railroad company sued for
negligently killing an animal to pay to the plaintiff, in addi'
tion to the damages proved and the ordinary costs, a reasonable attorney's fee, if it does not allow the corporation when
its defence is sustained to recover a like attorney's fee from
the plaintiff.
2. A State may require a railroad company sued for and
adjudged liable to damages arising from fire cauted by the
operation of its road, to pay to the plaintiff, in addition to
the damages proved and the ordinary costs, a reasonable
attorney's fee, even if it does not allow the corporation when
successful in its defence to recover a like attorney's fee from
the plaintiff.
The first proposition arises out of a suit brought on account
of the killing by the railroad of a colt. The second proposition arises out of a suit brought on account of the destruction
of an elevator and the property attached to it by fire caused
by operating a railroad.
Having assented in the EIis case to the first proposition,
I cannot give my assent to the suggestion that the second
proposition is consistent with the principles there laid down.
Placing the present case beside the former case, I am not.
astute enough to perceive that the Kansas statute is consistent with the Fourteenth Amendment, if the Texas statute
be unconstitutional.
In the former case we held that a railroad corporation,
sued for killing an animal, was entitled to enter the courts
upon equal terms with the plaintiff, but that that privilege
was denied to it when the Texas statute required it t6 pay
a special attorney's fee if wrong, and did not allow it to
recover any fee if right in its defence; and yet allowed the
plaintiff to recover a special attorney's fee if right, and pay
none if wrong. Upon these grounds it was adjudged that
the parties did not stand equal before the law, and did not
receive its equal protection. In the present case the Kansas
statute is held to be constitutional, although the parties in

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Brown, Peckham, McKenna, JJ.

suits embraced by its provisions are not permitted to enter
the courts upon equal terms, and although the defendant
railroad corporation is not allowed to recover an attorney's
fee if right, but must pay one if found to be wrong in its
defence; while the plaintiff is exempt from that burden if
found to be wrong.
In the former case it was adjudged that a State had no
more power to deny to corporations the equal protection of
the law than it has to individual citizens. In the present
case it is adjudged that in suits against a railroad corporation
to recover damages arising from fire caused by the operation
of the railroad, a rule of evidence may be applied against the
corporation which is not applied in like actions against other
corporations or against individuals for the negligent destruction of property by fire.
In the former case it was held that as the killing of the
colt was not attributable to a failure upon the part of the
railroad to perform any duty imposed upon it by statute,
there could be no penalty for non-performance. In the
present case it is adjudged that the statute may impose a
penalty upon the defendant corporation for non-performance,
although the negligence imputed to it was not in violation of
any statutory duty.
Suppose the statute in question had been so framed as to
give the railroad corporation a sp&cial attorney's fee if successful in its defence, but did not allow such a fee to an individual
plaintiff when successful. I cannot believe that any court,
Federal or state, would hesitate a moment in declaring such
an enactment void as denying to the plaintiff the equal protection of the laws. If this be tr'e, it would seem to follow
that a statute that accords to the plaintiff rights in courts
that are denied to his adversary should not be sustained as
consistent with the doctrine of the equal protection of the
laws. This conclusion, it seems to me, is inevitable unless
the court proceeds upon the theory that a corporate person
in a-court of justice may be denied the equal protection of the
laws when such protection could not be denied under like
circumstances to natural persons. But we said in the EMiq

ATOHISON, TOPEKA &c. IRAILROADI

. MATTHEWS.

113

Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Brown, Peckham, McKenna, JJ.

case that " a State has no more power to deny to corporations
the equal protection of the laws than it has to individual
citizens," and that corporations are denied a right secured to
them by the Fourteenth Amendment if " they cannot appeal
to the courts as other litigants under like conditions and with
like protection."
There is another aspect in which the Kansas statute may
be viewed. Taken in connection with the principles of
general law recognized in that State, that statute, althoughnot imposing any special duties upon railroad coihpanies, in
effect says to-the plaintiffs Matthews and Trudell, the owners'
of the elevator property -indeed it says in effect to every
individual citizen, and for that matter to every corporation
in the State: "If you are sued by a railroad corporation for
damage done to its property by fire caused by your negli-,
gence or in the use of your property, the recovery against
you shall not exceed the damages proved and the ordinary
costs of suit. But if your property is destroyed by fire caused
by the operation of the railroad belonging to the same corporation, and you succeed in an action brought to recQver
damages, you may recover, in addition to the damages proved
and the ordinary costs of suit,)a reasonable attorney's fee;.
and if you fail in the action no such attorney's fee shall be
taxed against you." In my judgment, such discrimination
against a litigant is not consistent with the equal protection
of the laws secured by the Fourteenth Amendment.
I submit that any other conclusion is inconsistent with
Gulf, Colorado c Santa 9 Railway v. EZli, as well as with
many other well-considered decisions. A reference to a few
adjudged cases will suffice.
The principles which in my judgment should control the
determination of cases like the present one are well stated by
the Supreme Court of Michigan in Wilder v. Chicago & W.
Michigan Railway, 70 Michigan, 382. That case involved the
validity of a provision in a statute of that State authorizing an
attorney's fee of $25 to be taxed against a railroad companyagainst which judgment should be rendered in an action for
injuries to stock The court said: "But the imposing of the
VOL. CLXX1V-8

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Brown, Peckham, McKenna, JJ.

attorney's fee of $25 as costs cannot be upheld. The legislature cannot make unjust distinctions between classes of suitors
without violating the spirit of the Constitution. Corporations
have equal rights with natural persons as far as their privileges
in the courts are concerned. They can sue and defend in all
courts the same as natural persons, and the law must be
administered as to them with the same equality and justice
which it bestows upon every suitor, and without which the
machinery of the law becomes the engine of tyranny. This
statute proposes to punish a railroad company for defending a
suit brought against it with a penalty of $25 if it fails to suc"cessfully maintain its defence. The individual sues for the
loss of his cow, and if it is shown that such loss was occasioned
by his own neglect, and through no fault of the company, and
he thereby loses his suit, the railroad company can recover only
the ordinary statutory costs of $10 in justice's court, but if be
succeeds because of the negligence of the company, the plaintiff
is permitted to tax the $10 and an additional penalty of $25;
for it is nothing more or less than a penalty. Calling it an
' attorney's fee' does not change its real nature or effect. It is
a punishment to the coin pany, and a reward to the plaintiff,
and an incentive to litigation on his part. This inequality
and injustice cannot be sustained upon any principle known .to
the law. It is repugnant to our form of government and out
of harmony with the genius of our free institutions. The
legislature cannot give to one party in litigation such privileges as will arm him with special and -important pecuniary
advantages over his antagonist. ' The genius, the nature and
the spirit of our state government amounts to a prohibition
of such acts of legislation, and the general principles of law
and reason forbid them.' Durkee v. Janesville, 28 Wisconsin,
464, 468; Calder v. Bull, 3 Dall. 386, 388. Here the legislature has granted special advantages to one class at the expense,
and to the detrimeit of another, and has undertaken to make
the courts themselves the active agents in this injustice, and
to force them to impose penalties in the disguise of costs upon
railroad companies for simply exercising, in certain cases, the
common right of every person to.make a defence in the courts

A.TCHISON, TOPEKA &c. RAILROAD v. MATTHEWS.

115

Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Brown, Peckham, McKenna, J3.

when suits are brought against them." These principles were
reaffirmed in .efferty v. Chicago & I..Mic]7iganz Railway, 71
Michigan, 35, and Grand Blapids Chair Co. v. Runnellq, 77
Michigan, 10, 111.
The validity of a statute of Alabama requiring a reasonable
attorney's fee, not exceeding a named amount, to be taxed as
part of the costs in certain actions, was involved in South &
NTorth Alabama Railroad v. .iorris, 65 Alabama, 193, 199.
The Supreme Court of Alabama, referring to the Fourteenth
Amendment as well as to the state constitution, skid: "The
clear legal effect of these provisions is to place all persons,
natural and corporate, as near as practicable, upon a basis of
equality in the enforcement and defence of their rights in
courts of justice in this State, except so far as may be otherwise provided in the Constitution. This right, though subject
to legislative regulation, cannot be impaired or destroyed
under the guise or device of being regulated. Justice cannot be sold, or denied, by the exaction of a pecuniary consideration for its enjoyment from one, when it is given freely
and open-handed to another, without money and without
price. Nor can it be permitted that litigants shall be debarred from the free exercise of this constitutional right,
by the imposition of arbitrary, unjust and odious discriminations, perpetrated under color of establishing peculiar rules
for a particular occupation. Unequal, partial and discriminatory legislation, which secures this right to some favored class
or classes, and denies it to others, who are thus excluded from
that equal protection designed to be secured by the general law
of the land, is in clear and manifest opposition to the letter
and spirit of the foregoing constitutional provisions ...
The section of the code under consideration (ยง 1715) prescribes
a regulation of a peculiar and discriminative character, in
reference to certain appeals from justices of the peace. It is
not general in its provisions, or applicable to all persons, but
it is confined to such as own or control railroads only; and
it varies from the general law of the land, by requiring the
unsuccessful appellant, in this particular class of cases, to pay
an attorney's tax fee, not to exceed twenty dollars. , A law

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Brown, Peckham, McKenna, JJ.

which would require all farmers who raise cotton to pay such
a fee, in cases where cotton was the subject-matter of litigation, and the owners of this staple were parties to the suit,
would be so discriminating in its nature as to appear manifestly unconstitutional; and one which should confine the tax
alone to physicians, or merchants or ministers of thQ gospel,
would be glaring in its obnoxious repugnancy to those cardinal principles of free government which are found incorporated, perhaps, in the Bill of Rights of every state constitution
of the various Commonwealths of the American Government.
We think this section of the code is antagonistic to these
provisions of the state constitution, and is void. Durkee v.
Janesville, 28 Wisconsin, 464; Gordon v. Winchester Association, 12 Bush, 110; Greene v. Briggs, 1 Curtis, 327; Cooley's

Const. Lim. (3d ed.) ยง 393.

The section in question is also

violative of that clause in section 1, Article XIV of the Constitution of the United States, which declares that no State
shall ' deny to any person within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws.' This guaranty was said by Justice Bradley in tffissouri v. Lkwis, 101 U. S. 22, 30, to include ' the
equal right to resort to the appropriate courts for redress.
It means,' as was further said by the court, 'that no person
or class of persons should be denied the same protection which
is enjoyed by other persons, or other classes, in the same places
The same ccurt, in United
and under like circumstances.'
States v. Cruikshan, 92 U. S. 542, 555, per Waite, C. J., used
the following language in discussing the foregoing constitutional clause: I The equality of the rights of citizens is a principle of republicanism. Every republican government is in
duty bound to protect all its citizens in the enjoyment of this
principle, if within its power. That duty was originally asWard v.
sumed by the States, and it still remains there.'
Flood, 48 California, 36."
Coal Company v. Rosser, 53 Ohio St. 12, 22-21, involved
the validity of a section of the Revised Statutes of Ohio providing that "if the plaintiff in any action for wages recover
the sum claimed by him in his bill of particulars, there shall
he included in his costs such fee as the court may allow, but

ATCHISON, TOPEKA &c. RAILROAD v. MATTHEWS.

117,

Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Brown, Peckham, McKenna, JJ.

not in excess of $5, for his attorney; but no such attorney fee
shall be taxed in the costs unless said wages shall have been
demanded in writing, and not paid within three days after
such demand; if the defendant appeal from any such judgment, and the plaintiff on appeal recover a like sum exclusive
of interest from the rendition of the judgment before the justice, there shall be included in his costs such additional fee
not in excess of $15 for his attorney as the court may allow."
The Supreme Court of Ohio said: "Under the statute, to
entitle the plaintiff to have an attorney fee taxed against the
defendant, he is not required to show that the debtor had
funds which he wilfully or arbitrarily or even carelessly refused
to apply to pay his debt, nor that a vexatious or dilatory defence had been made to defeat or delay the judgment. No
other misconduct by the defendant is required than such as
may'be implied from a failure to comply with the peremptory
written demand made upon him. Whether the debtor interposes or shows a vexatious defence, whether he makes an
honest though unsuccessful one, or whether he makes none at
all, but instead suffers- judgment to be taken against him by
default, are all equally immaterial; in either case the statute
denounces against him a penalty called an attorney fee if an
action is brought on the claim and judgment recovered for the
: The right to protect property is desum demanded. .
clared as well as that justice shall not be denied and every one
entitled to equal protection. Judicial tribunals are provided for
the equal protection of every suitor. The right to retain property already in possession is as sacred as the right to recover
it when dispossessed. The right to defend against an action
to recover money is as necessary as the right to defend one
brought to recover specific real or personal property. An adverse result in either case deprives the defeated party of property." Again: "Upon what principle can a rule of law rest
which permits one party or class of people to invoke the action
of our tribunals of justice at will, while the other party or
another class of citizens does so at the peril of being mulcted
in an attorney fee if an honest but unsuccessful defence should
be interposed? A statute that imposes this restriction upon

118,

OCTOBER TE1.f, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Brown, Peckham, McKenna, 33.

one citizen or class of citizens only denies to him or them the
equal protection of the law."
In Chicago, St. Louiscd. Railroad v. -os, 60 Mississippi,
641, 646-64-7, 650-652, which involved the validity of a statute
authorizing an attorney's fee to be taxed against the appellant,
"'whenever an appeal shall be taken from the judgment of any
court in any action for damages brought by any citizen of this
State against any corporation," the Supreme Court of Alississippi said: "All litigants, whether plaintiff or defendant,
should be regarded with equal favor by the law and before the
tribunals for administering it, and should have the same right
to appeal with others similarly situated. All must have the
equal protection of the law and its instrumentalities. The
same rule must exist for all in the same circumstances. There
may be different rules for appeals and their incidents in different classes of cases, determined by their nature and subjects,
but not with respect to the persons by or against whom they
are instituted. The subjection of every unsuccessful appellant
to a charge for the fee of the attorney for the appellee would
afford no ground for complaint as unequal, for it would
operate on all, and such a rule for the unsuccessful appellant
in certain causes of action, tested by the nature and subject
of the actions, will be equally free from objection on the
ground of its discriminating character; but to say that where
certain persons are plaintiffs and certain persons are defendants, the unsuccessful appellant shall be subjected to burdens
not imposed on unsuccessful appellants generally, is to deny
the equal protection of the law to the party thus discriminated
against. It is to debar certain persons from prosecuting a civil
cause before the appellate tribunals of this State. It is an
unwarrantable interference with the 'due-course of law' prescribed for litigants generally.

.

.

.

It is doubtless true

that the act was designed for the relief of citizens who became
litigants in actions-against corporations because it applies only
when a citizen is plaintiff, and it was assumed that the corporation would be appellant, and to avoid discrimination between
parties to the same action it was made to operate on either
party as appellant, but it sometimes occurs, and may very

ATCHIISONT, TOPEKA &c. RAILROAD)i. MATTAEWS.

110

Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Brown, Peckham, McKenna, JJ.

ofteu, that the citizen plaintiff is an appellant, and in such cases
the discrimination may operate oppressively on him. The Supreme Court of Alabama declared its act violative of the constitution of that State and of the United States, because of its
unjust discrimination in establishing peculiar rules for a particular occupation, i.e., I such as own or control railroads.' Our
objection to the act under consideration is broaaer, as shown
above, embracing in its scope the right of the citizen who sues
a corporation, for whom we assert the right to appeal on the
same .terms granted to the plaintiffs in like cases, i.e., actions
for damages against whomsoever brought. The act was intended to deter from the appellate court corporations against
whom judgments should be rendered for damages, or citizens
of this State suing them for damages. It was conceived in
hostility to citizens as plaintiffs or corporations as defendants
in such actions. In either view it is partial and discriminating
against classes of litigants, denying them access to the appellate courts on the same terms and with the same incidents as.
other litigants who may be plaintiffs or defendants in actions
for damages. It is not applicable to all suitors alike in the class
of actions mentioned by it....
An act ' which is partial
in its operations, intended to affect particular individuals alone
or to deprive them of the benefit of the general laws, is unwarranted by the Constitution and is void.' ' A partial law,
tending directly or indirectly to deprive a corporation or an
individual of rights to property, or to the equal benefits of the
general laws of the land, is unconstitutional and void.'
Cases almost without number could be cited to the same general effect. I refer to the following as bearing more or less upon
the general inquiry as to the scope and meaning of the clause in
the Fourteenth Amendment prohibiting any State from denying to afiy person within its jurisdiction the equal protection
of the laws. Jolliffe v. Brown, 14 Washington, 155; Randolph v. Builders andPainters'Supply Co., 106 Alabama, 501;
New York Life In. Co. v. Smith, (Texas) 41 S.W. Rep. 680;
St. Louis c. Railway v. Williams, 49 Arkansas, 492; Denver
& Rio Grande Railway Co. v. Outcalt, 2 Colo. App. 395;
Atchison &f Neb. Railroad v. Baty, 6 Nebraska, 37; 0'Con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Brown, Peckham, McKenna, JJ.

nell v. -fenominee Bay Shore Lumber Co., (Michigan) '1 N.
W. Rep. 449; San Antonio & A. P. Railway v. Wilson,
(Texas) 19 S. W. Rep. 910; Jacksonville v. CarTenter, 7
Wisconsin, 288; Pearson v. Portland,69 Maine, 278; Burrows v. Brooks, (Michigan) 71 N. W. Rep. 460; -Middleton v.
.Afiddleton, 54 N. J. Eq. 692; State v. Goodwill, 33 W. Va.
179. These adjudications rest substantially upon the grounds
indicated by this court in Yick Mo'v. Hopkins, 118 U. S. 356,.
369, where it was said that "the equal protection of the laws
is a pledge of the protection of equal laws."
I do not think that the adjudged cases in this court, to
which reference has been made, sustain the validity of the
statute of Kansas.
In -Missouri Pacifft Railway v. HZumes, 115 U. S. 512,
522, this court sustained a statute of Missouri requiring every
railroad corporation to erect and maintain fences and cattle
guards on the sides of its roads, and for failure to do so subjecting it to liability in double the amount of damages occasioned thereby. The court said: "The omission to erect and
maintain such fences and cattle guards in the face of the law
would justly be deemed gross negligence, and if, in such cases,
where injuries to property are committed, something beyond
compensatory damages may be awarded to the owner by way of
punishment for the company's negligence, the legislature may
fix the amount or prescribe the limit within which the jury may
exercise their discretion. The additional damages being by
way of punishment, it is clear that the amount may be thus
fixed; and it is not a valid objection that the sufferer instead
of the State receives them. . . . The power of the State
to inipose fines and penalties for a violation of its statutory
requirements is coeval with government; and the mode in
which they shall be enforced, whether at the suit of a private
party or at the suit of the public, and what disposition shall be
made of the amounts collected, are merely matters of legislative discretion. The statutes of nearly every State of the
Union provide for the increase of damages where the injury
complained of results from the neglect of duties imposed for
the better security of life and property, and make that in-

ATCHISON, TOPEKA &c. RAILROAD v. MATTHEWS.

121

Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Brown, Peckham, McKenna, J3.

crease in many cases double, in some cases treble; and even
The objection that
quadruple the actual damages. . .
the statute of Missouri violates the clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment, which prohibits a State to deny to any person
within its jurisdiction the equal protection of the laws, is as untenable as that which we have considered. The statute makes
no discrimination against any railroad company in its requirements. Each company is subject to the same liability, and
from each the same security, by the erection of fences, gates
and cattle guards, is exacted, when its road passes through,
along or adjoining enclosed or cultivated fields or unenclosed
lands. There is no evasion of the rule of equality where all
companies are subjected to the same duties and liabilities
under similar circumstances."
In i88ouri _Pacjf. ]Railway v. .fackey, 127 U. S. 205, 2Q9,
this court held not to be unconstitutional a statute of Kansas
making every railroad company liable for all damages done
to one of its employ~s in consequence of any negligence of
its agents or by any mismanagement of its engineers or other
employ6, to any person sustaining such damage. This court
said: "Such legislation does not infringe upon the clause of
the Fourteenth Amendment requiring equal protection of the
laws, because it is special in its character; if in conflict at all
with that clause, it must be on other grounds. And when
legislation applies to particular bodies or associations, imposing.upon them additional liabilities, it is not open to the objection that it denies to them the equal protection of the laws,
if all persons brought under its influence are treated alike
under the same conditions."
In .Xfinneavolis& St. Louis Railway v. Emmons, 149 U. S.
364, 367, the court held to be valid a statute of Minnesota requiring railroad companies within a named time to build or cause to
be built good and sufficient cattle guards at all wagon crossin gs and good and substantial fences oif each side of their respective roads, and that failure by any company to perform
that duty should be deemed an act of negligence, for which
it should be liable in treble the amount of damage sustained.
This court said: "The extent of the obligations and duties

I2M

OCTOE13E

TERIM, 1898.

Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Brown, Peckham, McKenna, JT.

required of railroad corporations or companies by their charters does not create any limitation upon the State against imposing all such further duties as may be deemed essential or
important for the safety of the public, the security of passengers and employs, or the protection of the property of
adjoining owners. The imposing of proper penalties for the
enforcement of such additional duties is unquestionably within
the police power of the States. No contract. with any person,
individual or corporate, can impose restrictions upon the power
of the States in this respect."
In St. Louis & San .Fi'ancisco Railway v. -. athew8, 165
U. S. 1, 26, this court upheld a statute of Missouri providing that
every railroad corporation owning and operating a railroad
in that State should be responsible in damages to the owner
of any property injured or destroyed by fire communicated
directly or indirectly by locomotive engines in use upon its
railroad - the railroad company being however authorized
to procure insurance on the property upon the route of its
railroad. It was there said: "The right of the citizen not to
have his property burned without compensation is no less to be
regarded than the right of the corporation to set it on fire.
To require the utmost care and diligence of the railroad corporitions in taking precautions against the escape of fire from
their engines might not afford sufficient protection to the
owners of property in the neighborhood of the railroads.
When both parties are equally faultless, the legislature may
properly consider it to be just that the duty of insuring .private property against loss or injury caused by the use of dangerous instruments should rest upon the railroad company,
which employs the instruments and creates the peril for its
own profit, rather than upon the owner of the property, who
has no control over or interest in those instruments. The
very statute now in question, which makes the railroad company liable in damages for property so destroyed, gives it, for
its protection against such damages, an insurable interest in
the property in danger of destruction, and the right to obtain
insurance thereon in its own behalf; and it may obtain insurance upon all such property generally, without specifying any

ATCHISON, TOPEKA &c. RAILROAD v.

.ATTHEWS.

123

Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Brown, Peckham, McKenna, JJ.

particular property." Observe, that the Missouri statute gave
the railroad company for its protection against the new liability imposed upon it the right to insure the property likely to
be destroyed by fire.
I do not perceive that the judgment now rendered finds
support in any adjudication by this court. The above cases
proceed upon the general ground that in the exercise of its
police power a State may by statute impose additional
duties upon railroad corporations, with penalties for the
non-performance of such duties, and that such legislation is
not, because of its special character, a denial of the equal protection of the laws. It is said to be of the essence of classification that "upon the class are cast duties and burdens
different from those resting upon the general public." But
here the State does not prescribe any additional duties uppn
railroad companies in respect of the. destruction of property
by fire arising from the operating of their roads. It simply
imposes a penalty which it does not impose upon other litigants under like circumstances. It only prescribes a punishment for assuming to contest a claim of a particular kind made
against it for damages. The railroad company can escape the
punishment only by failing to exercise its privilege of resisting in a court of justice a demand which it deems unjust.
Undoubtedly, the State may prescribe new duties for a railroad corporation and impose penalties for their non-performance. But, under the guise of exerting its police powers, the
State may not prevent access to the courts by all litigants upon
equal terms. It may not, to repeat the language of the court
in the Ellis case, "arbitrarily select one corporation or one
class of corporations, one individual or one class of individuals,
and visit a penalty upon them which is not imposed upon
others guilty of like delinquency." Arbitrary selection cannot, we said in the same case, "be justified by calling it classification." There is no classification here except one that
denies the equal protection of the laws. It would seem that
what was said in the Ellis case was exactly in point, namely,
"as no duty is imposed there can be no penalty for nonperformance." Instead of prescribing: some penalty for the

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Dissenting Opinion: Harlan, Brown, Peckbam, McKenna, 3J.

neglect by the railroad company of ddties specifically enjoined
upon it, the State attempts- and by the decision just rendered is enabled -to take from the company the right which
we declared in the Ellis case was secured by the Constitution,
namely, the right to "appeal to the courts as other litigants,
.under like conditions and with like protection."
Some stress is laid upon the fact that the statute under
consideration was passed by a State in which fires caused by
the operating of railroads may often cause and are likely to
cause widespread injury to grass, crops, houses and barns.
What, in the light of the authorities, the State may constitutionally do in order to protect its people against dangers of
that character I need not stop to consider. The only question
here is whether, in the absence of any statutory regulation
prescribing what a railroad corporation shall or shall not do
in order to guard property against destruction by fire arising
from the operating of its road, the State can deny to such a
corporation, when defending a suit brought against it to recover
damages on the ground of negligent destruction of property,
a privilege which it accords to its adversary in the trial ofthe
issues'joined. May the State-meet the railroad corporation at
the doors of its courts of justice and say to it, "If you enter
here for the purpose of defending the suit brought against you
it must be subject to the condition that a special attorney's
fee shall be taxed against you if unsuccessful, while none shall
be taxed against the plaintiff if he be unsuccessful?" 1 Nothing
has ever heretofore fallen from this court sustaining the proposition that the constitutional pledge of the equal protection
of the laws admitted of a litigant, because of its corporate
character, being denied in a court of justice privileges of a
substantial kind accorded to its opponent. If there is one
place under our system of government where all should be in
a position to have equal and exact justice done to them, it is
a court of justice- a principle which I had supposed was as
old as Magna Charta.
In my opinion the statute of Kansas denies to a litigant,
upon whom no duty has been imposed by statute and whose
liability for wrongs done by it depends upon general princi-

AUTEN v. UNITED STATES N ATIONAL BANK.

125

Syllabus.

ples of law applicable to all alike, that equality of right given
by the law of the land to all suitors, and consequently it
should be adjudged to deny the equal protection of the laws.
I dissent from the opinion and judgment.

AUTEN v,. UNITED STATES NATIONAL BANK OF
NEW YORK.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE EIGHTH
CIRCUIT.
'o. 206. Argued.March 9, 1899. -Dedea April 24, 1899.

In June, 1892, the United States National Bank of New York, by letter, solicited the business of the First National Bank of Little Rock, Arkansas.
The latter, through its president, accepted the proposition, and opened
business, by enclosing for discount, notes to a large amount. This business continued for some months, the discounted notes being taken up as
maturing, until the Arkansas bank suspended payment, and went into
the hands of a receiver. At that time the New York bank held notes
to a large amount, which it had acquired by discounting them from the
Arkansas bank. These notes have been duly protested for non-payment,
and the payment of the fees of protest, made by the New York bank,
have been charged to the Arkansas bank in account. The receiver refused to pay or allow them. At the time of the failure of the Arkansas
bank there was a slight balance due it from the New York bank, which
the latter credited to it on account of the sum which was claimed to be
due on the notes after the refusal of the receiver to allow them. The
New York bank commenced this suit against the receiver, to recover the
balance which it claimed was due to it. The receiver denied all liability
and asked judgment in his favor for the small balance in the hands
of the New York bank. It was also set up that the notes discounted by
the New York bank were not for the benefit of the Arkansas bank, but
for the benefit of its president, and that the New York bank was charged
with notice of this. The judgment of the trial court, which was affirmed
by the Circuit Court of Appeals, was for the full amount of the notes,
less the set-off. In this court motion was made to dismiss the writ of
error on the ground that jurisdiction below depended on diversity of
citizenship, and hence was final. Held:
(i) That the receiver, being an officer of the United States, the action
against him was one arising under the laws of the United States,
and this court had jurisdiction;

