OCTOBER TERMI, 1898.
Syllabus.

the record was transmitted to the Circuit Court, and that that
court, on motion, remanded the cause to the state court because
there was no separable controversy wholly between citizens of
different States. This being so, the proceedings in relation to
the removal of the cause afforded no ground for the issue of
the writ of error.
In Xissouri Pacifc Railway v. Fitzgerald, 160 U. S. 556,
582, we held that: "If the Circuit Court remands a cause and
the state court thereupon proceeds to final judgment, the ac.tion of the Circuit Court is not reviewable on writ of error to
such judgment. A state court cannot be held to have decided
against a Federal right, when it is the Circuit Court, and not
the state court, which has denied its possession.

.

.

As

under the statute a remanding order of the Circuit Court is
not reviewable by this court on appeal or writ of error from
or to that court, so it would seem to follow that it cannot be
reviewed on writ of error to a state court, the prohibition
being that 'no appeal or writ of error from the decision of a
Circuit Court remanding such cause shall be allowed.' And
it is entirely clear that a writ of error cannot be maintained
under section 709 in respect of such an order where the state
court has rendered n6 decision against a Federal right but
simply accepted the conclusion of the Circuit Court."
Writ of error dismissed.

"McAIN v. DES MOINES.
APPEAL

FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES -FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF IOWA.
No. 238. -Submitted April 5, 1699. -Decided

May 1, 1599.

It appearing on the face of the bill in this case that all the parties to this
suit are citizens of Iowa, and the court being of opinion that the allegation in the bill that this is a controversy and a suit of a civil nature arising under the Constitution and laws .of the United States is not only not
supported by the facts appearing In the bill, but is so palpably unfounded

McCAIN' v. DES MOINES.
Statement of the Case.
that it constitutes not even a color for the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court, the decree below, dismissing the bill for want of jurisdiction, is
affirmed.

THE bill in this case is filed against the city of Des Moines,
its board of public works, the Des Moines Brick Manufacturing Company, and the incorporated town of Greenwood Park,
to obtain an injunction restraining, among other things, the
city of Des Moines and its officers and agents from exercising
over the territory of the incorporated town of Greenwood
Park any function of municipal government for the purpose
of taxation or for works of internal improvements or -otherwise, and for other relief.
The bill makes the following allegations: The complainants
own in severalty lands within the incorporated town of Greenwood Park, and the lands so owned by each of the complainants are worth more than $2000; adjoining the town is the
city of Des Moines, a municipal corporation created under the
laws of the State of Iowa. In 1890 the legislature passed an
act purporting to extend the limits of the city of Des Moines
so as to include therein the town above named. The constitution of the State prohibits the passing of special acts for the
incorporation of cities; the act of 1890 was a special act incorporating a city and therefore prohibited by the constitution,
and as a consequence entirely void. The incorporated town
has never been dissolved and is entitled to exercise all the
functions of government and taxation, but it has ceased to
exercise them over the territory; that notwithstanding the act
of 1890 is wholly void and of no effect, the defendant, the city
of Des Moines, pretended and undertook to exercise the functions of government and the power of taxation over the territory of Greenwood Park; that the only warrant for the
city to act in the premises is the void act of the legislature
of 1890, and the city is assuming to levy assessments and to
exercise the power of taxation and to perform all the other
functions of municipal government under that act; that the
suit herein is one of a civil nature arising under the laws and
Constitution of the United States; and the sum in controversy

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

exceeds $2000. It appears on the face of the bill that all the
parties are citizens of the State of Iowa.
The bill further alleges that the city made a contract with
thedefendant, the Des Moines Brick Manufacturing Company,
to pave a public highway in the town, the expens6 of which
was to be assessed upon-the property abutting thereon, including the lands of the complainants, and the work was all done
under color of the act mentioned, and that it was all illegal
for want of authority; that at the time of the passage of
the act and the taking of jurisdiction by the city, the town
was exclusively an agricultural community, and there was no
advantage in or necessity for the annexation of the town to
the city of Des Moines, and none of the land in the town had
been plotted into lots by laying out streets or alleys therein,
and the highways within it were under the control and jurisdiction of the officers of Polk County, and that to subject the
lands of complainants or the other lands within the town to
the taxes and assessments threatened by the city of Des
*Moines is to take their property under color of authority
from the void act of 1890, and contrary to the amendment
of the Constitution of the United States, section 1, article 14.
Further allegations were made, not material to be stated.
In addition to asking for an injunction to restrain the city
of Des Moines from exercising jurisdiction over the town of
Greenwood Park, the complainants ask that the town "be
-enjoined to exercise for its own future benefit under the
statutes of Iowa all functions of municipal government and
taxation and works of internal improvement in the same
manner and to the same extent as the said functions have
been exercised by said defendant prior to March 3, 1890."
The bill further prayed that the city' and the board of public
works should be enjoined from making any levy upon the
propefty of the complainants to pay the expense of paving
the highway, and that the city be restrained from issuing to
the Des Moines Brick Manufacturing Company any assessment certificates on account of paving, and for other
.relief.
The defendant, the Des Moines Brick Manufacturing

McCAIN v. DES -MOINES.
Opinion of the Court.

Company, demurred to the bill on the ground, among others,
that it appeared on the face of complainants' bill that all the
parties to the suit were citizens of the State of Iowa, and that
this suit does not involve any quiestion arising under the
Constitution or laws of the United States, and therefore the
Circuit Court had no jurisdiction in the case.
The Circuit Court sustained the demurrer on the ground
of want of jurisdiction, and pursuant to section 5 of the act
of March 3, 1891, organizing the Circuit Courts of Appeals, 26
Stat. 826, it has certified the question of jurisdiction alone for
decision by this court.
The opinion of the District Judge, in dismissing the bill, is
reported in 84 Fed. Rep. 726.
XM. William E. .Yason and Mr. William G. Clark for
appellants.
-. r. NY.T. Guernsey, Mr. H. T. Granger and -H. Arthur
C. Graves for appellee.
MR. JusTio. PECKHAM, after stating the facts, delivered

the opinion of the court.
The jurisdiction of the Circuit Court depends upon the act
approved August 13, 1888, 25 Stat. 433, a part of which reads
as follows: "That the Circuit Courts of the United States
shall have original cognizance, concurrent with the courts of
the several States, of all suits of a civil nature at common law
or in equity, . . .
of the United States.

arising under the Constitution or laws
"

As it 'appears upon the face of the bill that all the parties
are citizens of Iowa, the Circuit Court had no jurisdiction on
the ground of diverse citizenship.
Is the suit one arising under the Constitution or laws of the
United States? As was said in the court below, the material
question is whether the exercise of jurisdiction by the city of
Des Moines over the territory purporting to be annexed by
the act of 1890 is lawful? To answer that question it is

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

necessary only to refer to the constitution and law of the
State of Iowa.
,The Supreme Court of the State decided in Iowa v. .Des
)zfolnes, 6 Iowa, 521, that the act of 1890 was void because it violated the constitutional provision in regard to
special legislation. That was an action of quo warranto
brought to test the right of the defendant city to exercise
corporate authority over the added territory under the act of
1890. From the report of the facts in that case it appears
that "the city was by that act extended two and a half miles
in each direction from its then present boundary, and it was
provided by the same act that the corporate character of any
annexed territory within the extended boundaries should
cease and determine upon the passage of the act. Other
sections of the act provided for the payment of the indebtedness of the city so enlarged and of the indebtedness of the
cities within the annexed territory, and for the exemption
from taxation for any city purpose of lands included within
the extended limits which had not been laid off into lots of
ten acres or less, or which should not subsequently be divided
into parcels of ten acres or less by- the extension of streets
and alleys or otherwise, and also of lands occupied and used
in good faith for agricultural or horticultural purposes; for
the reorganization of the wards of the cities and for elections
therein. It appeared from the census of 1885 that only the
city of Des Moines was affected by the act of 1890, and that
in the added territory were one city and seven incorporated
towns. The provisions of the act by which the municipal
governments, other than the city of Des Moines, were to
become extinct, and the entire territory to become one corporation and municipality were observdd, so that in April, 1890,
the change was complete, since which time the city of Des
Moines has been thus constituted and has exercised throughout the territory the rights and functions of a city government, including the levy and collection of taxes, establishing,
opening, vacating, changing and improving streets, the making of contracts and the creating and payment of debts.
These details, while appearing in the report in 96 Iowa, are

McCAIN v. DES -MOINES.
Opinion of the Court.

not set ip in the complainants' bill, but their substance is shown
in the allegations therein made, that the town has ceased to
exercise all the functions of government and taxation,, and
the city of Des Moines and the board of public works are
themselves exercising the functions of government over the
town territory.
After the court in the quo warranto case had determined
that the act was local legislation, and of that class prohibited
by the Constitution, and therefore void, the opinion therein
continues as follows:
"It is next to be determined whether or not, with. the law
giving rise to the annexation absolutely void, the legality of
the present city organization can be sustained under the rule
of estoppel or laches. On this branch of the case a large
number of authorities have been cited, and the newness of
the question, as 'well as the great interests involved, make
it one of great importance. The foundation for the application of the doctrine of estoppel is the consequence to result
from a judgment denying to the city of Des Moines municipal
authority over the territory annexed, after the lapse of four
years, during which time such authority has been exercised,
and the changed conditions involving extensive public and
private interests. It will be remembered that the act of
annexation resulted in the abandonment of eight municipal
governments, which before the annexation were independent,
and bringing them under the single government of the city of
Des Moines. This involved a vacation of all offices in the
city and towns annexed, and the delivery of all public records
and property to the officers chosen for the city so enlarged.
For four years taxes have been -levied, collected and expended
under the new conditions; public improvements have been
made, including some miles of street curbing, paving and
sewerage, for which certificates and warrants have been
issued, and contracts are now outstanding for such improvements. In brief, with the statement that for the four years
the entire machinery of city government has been in operation, the situation may be better imagined than expressed. It
is hardly possible to contemplate the situation to result from

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

a judgment dissolving the present city organization, and leaving the territory formerly embraced within corporate lines
as it would be left. Of all the cases to which we are cited,
involving the validity of municipal organizations, where the
consequences to result from a judgment of avoidance are considered, not one presents a case of such uncertainty, nor where
there are the same grounds for serious apprehension, because
of difficulties in adjusting rights in this case."
The court then cited several cases in which the doctrine
of laches had been applied to sustain a municipal government
where the organization, as attempted, was illegal. See'State
v. Leatherman, 38 Arkansas, 81; Jameson v. People, 16 Illinois, 257 ; People v. .3aq
/nard,
15 Michigan, 463; and also the
9
following from Cooley on Constitutional Limitations, (page
312, 4th ed.):
"In proceedings where the question of whether a corporation exists or not arises collaterally, the courts will not permit its corporate character to be questioned, if it appear to
be acting under color of law, and recognized by the State
as such.

.

.

. And the rile, we apprehend, would be no

different, if the constitution itself prescribed the manner of
incorporation. Even in such a case, proof that the corporation was acting as such, under legislative action, would be
sufficient evidence of right, except as against the State, and
private parties could not enter any question of regularity.
And the State itself may justly be precluded, on principles
of. estoppel, from raising any such objection, where there has
been long acquiescence and recognition."
Continuing with its own opinion, the court stated:
"This, it is true, is a direct proceeding by the State. And,
while the language used is applied In part to collateral proceedings, it seems also to include actions by the State directly.
The learned writer sustains this text by a reference to People
v. -Maynard, (&upra,) Rumsey v. People, 19 N. Y. 41, and
Lanning v. 0a4_penter, 20 N. Y. 447. It will be seen that
importance is given to the fact that the defective organization
..takes place under color of law. Nothing less can be said of
the annexation in this case than that it was made under color

McCAIN v. DES MOINES.
Opinion of the Court.

of law. 'Color of law' does not mean actual law. 'Color,'
as a modifier, in legal parlance, means 'appearance as distinguished from reality.' Color of law means 'mere semblance of legal right.' Kin. Law Dict. & Gloss. In some
of the cases the defects as to organization have been spoken
of as irregularities, because of which appellant thinks the
cases not applicable, because this is a void proceeding. The
term Iirregularity' is oftener applied to forms or rules of
procedure in practice than to a non-observance of the law
in other ways, but it has application to both. It'is defined
as a 'violation or non-observance of established rules and
practices.' The annexation in question was a legal right
under the law, independent of the act held void. It was not
a void thing, as if prohibited by law. The most that can- be
said is that the proceeding for annexation was not the one
prescribed, but it was a violation or non-observance of that
rule or law. It seems to us that the proceeding is no less
an irregularity than in the cases cited."
And again on page 536, in speaking of the invalidity of the
act of 1890, the court said:
"Had the act never been passed, and the same method for
annexation been adopted, with the same conditions as to recognition, acquiescence, delays and public and private interests
involved, the same conclusion would result; and hence the
act is without the least significance, nor have we given it a
shadow of bearing, except in so far as it may have served as
a color of law inducing the proceedings for annexation."
And lastly, in speaking of the consequences to be apprehended
from a judgment of ouster, the learned court said (p. 538):
"Such a judgment would disrupt the present peaceful and
satisfactory arrangement of all the people of the city, as to its
corporate existence, without a benefit, so far as we know, to any
person. The law does not demand such a sacrifice for merely'
technical reasons. In fact, the constitutional vindication is
complete with the declaration that the act is absolutely void."
It will thus be seen that wbile the Supreme Court of Iowa
decided that the act purporting to extend the limits of the
city was void as being in violation of the constitutional pro-

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

vision in regard to special and local legislation, yet the court
also- held, for the reasons stated, that it was sufficient in itself
to constitute, under the circumstances mentioned, a color of
law for the annexation, and for the application of the principles
of estoppel as above mentioned. The legality of the present
city organization was for those -reasons sustained. It is this
same organization that the complainants now ask to have
enjoined in this suit from exercising any function of government in the 'annexed district, and the former organization in
the annexed district which the complainants allege has ceased
to exercise those functions, they now ask the court in this
suit to enjoin it "to exercise for its own future benefits under
the statutes of Iowa."
To grant the relief demanded would quite effectually overrule the decision of the state court upon a question relating
purely to the local law of the State.
The claim of the complainants is based solely and wholly
upon the allegation that the act of 1890 was void as in violation
of the constitution of Iowa. Their counsel lay that down in so
many words in their brief. They say that their claim is "that
under a law declared to be void and unconstitutional by the
Supreme Court of the State of Iowa, the city of Des Moines is
still exercising municipal control and jurisdiction over the
complainants' property." There is an allegation in the bill
that the land of the town was agricultural, but it is not
asserted that the act was a violation of the Federal Constitution
because it included such lands. No such question is made by
the bill.
In their brief counsel urge that the act was void because
among other things it was a violation of the constitution of
Iowa in bringing agricultural lands, under the circumstances
and to the extent mentioned, into the control and limits of the
city. The act itself in the third section exempts such lands
from taxation for any city purpose, when they shall in good
faith be occupied and used for agricultural or horticultural
purposes.
It is therefore quite plain that the complainants base their
case upon the allegation that their property is about to be

McCAIN v. DES MOLNES.

t17

Opinion of the Court.

taken from them by the city authorities without due process
of law and in violation of the Constitution of the United
States, because the act of 1890 violates the constitution of
Iowa. That is a question of law, depending for its solution
upon the law of Iowa, and as to what that law is the Federal
courts are bound in such a case as this by the decision of the
state tribunal. There is no construction of the Federal Constitution involved in that inquiry, nor any question as to its effect
upon the complainants' rights in this suit. The question
whether their property is taken without due process of law
must be decided with sole reference to the law of Iowa. How
can it be said upon such facts that any question arises under the
Constitution or laws of the United States? The claim of the
complainants will not be defeated by one construction of that
clause in the Constitution or sanctioned by the other. Starin
v. New York, 115 U. S. 248. There is no dispute about construction in any way whatever; the only question is as to the
validity of the city organization, which, as stated, is a matter
of state law.
The case is, however, made still stronger by the fact that
the validity of the present organization of the city government and the lawfulness of its exercise of jurisdiction over the
territory mentioned has been already decided by the state
court, and had beea so decided when this suit was commenced.
It is not important upon what ground the state court proceeded
in arriving at its judgment, whether it was because the act of
1890 was valid, or that being invalid; the lawfulness of the
organization could not be inquired into for the reasons stated
in the opinion of the court above quoted. The complainants
however argue that the state Supreme Court in the quo
warranto case did not decide upon the validity of the city
organization, but only that the relator, being a non-resident
-of the city and paying taxes in the town in the nominal sum
of a dollar a year, would not be heard upon a question which
might disturb the peaceful relations that existed in the territory, and which might also overturn the municipal authority
of the city of Des Moines therein. Counsel allege that these
complainants do not attempt to test the corporate existence
VOL. cLXXIV-12

178

OCTOBER TER,

1898.

Opinion of the Court.
of the city of Des Moines, but simply to test the right of that
cgrporation to levy taxes for certain purposes upon the
property of the complainants.
The last assertion, so far as concerns the testing of the
corporate existence of the city in the territory mentioned, is
clearly an error, because the bill asks relief in the way of a
perpetual injunction to restrain the city of Des M oines, its
officers and agents, from the exercise of any function of municipal government or authority or jurisdiction for the purpose
of taxation or for works of internal improvement in the town
of Greenwood Park, and it asks that the city officers be perpetually restrained from interfering with the officers of the
town or. from obstructing them in the administration of the
municipal affairs of the town; and that the town "be authorized and enjoined to exercise for its own future benefits under
the statutes of the State of Iowa all functions of municipal
-government, taxation and works of internal improvement, in
the same manner and to the same extent as the said functions have been exercised by defendant prior to the 3d day of
March, 1890." This prayer for relief seeks to test pretty substantially the !corporate existence of the city of Des Moines
in the territory in question. It does, of course, also seek to
test the right of the corporation to levy taxes for the purposes
named in the bill and upon the property of the complainants;
but the right to levy these taxes depends entirely upon the
legality of the city organization, so that if the organization is
not lawful, the taxation is equally invalid.
The commencement of this suit is plainly an attempt to
overturn the decision of the state court in the quo warranto
case. In our opinion the complainants take much too narrow
a view of the decision of the state court in that case. The
facts of the non-residence -of the relator and the smallness of
his interest were spoken of, but they formed only an insignificant part of other and more important facts upon which the
reasoning of the court was based. Those other facts were of
a public nature, and the court, in its opinion, gave great
weight to the public interests that were involved and the
great injury that would fall upon all public as well as private

McCAIN v. DES MOINES.9

179

Opinion of the Court.

interests by overturning an authority that had lasted four
years, and which had been initiated under color and by reason
of an act of the legislature. The court in truth decided that
the legality of the city organization could not be inquired into,
even in a direct proceeding brought by the State to test the
validity of the act, or, in other words, the validity musi be
sustained for the following, among other, stated reasons: The
lapse of time; the actions of the authorities of both city and
town in taking and yielding possession and jurisdiction; the
delivery of all public records and the closing of *all public
offices by the officers in all the abandoned municipal governments; the' levying, collection and expienditure of taxes;.
the public improvements made after the passage of the act;
the bonds that had been recalled by the city and others issued
in their place; the general recognition of the validity of the
municipal government by all classes of the community; the
color of law under which the organization of the city government had been practically effected in the territory; and the
inextricable confusion into which the whole affairs of the
city and town would -be thrown as the necessary result of
holding that the city government did not extend over the territory mentioned. For these public considerations the court
refused to permit the inquiry to be made, even by the State,
into the validity of the municipal government of the city as
enlarged under color of the act of 1890. That no collateral
inquiry would be permitted the opinion takes as unquestionably plain.
For the purpose probably of meeting the argument arising
from acquiescence, as set forth in the quo warra~nto case, the
complainants allege in the bill herein that they and- the citizens
of Greenwood Park have not assented to or acquiesced in or
agreed to the acts of the city of Des Moines, and that jurisdiction has been exercised over them without their consent, and
without permitting the citizens by election or otherwise to determine whether the pretended acts of annexation should be
operative or not. These allegations would seem to refer to
the state of mind which the complainants and citizens were in
during these many years, and the allegation of an absence of

-

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

acquiescence would also seem to have been fouiaded upon the
fact that there had been no election by which to determine
whether the act should be accepted or not. Neither fact alters
the effect to be properly given the opinion in the case mentioned, in the face of the facts actually existing. From the
time of the passage of the annexation act up to the commencement of this suit, a period of seven years, there is no allegation
of-iny act on the part of the complainants or any other citizen
in the way of an attempt to test the validity of this legislation
with the exception of the suit brought by the State upon the
relation of a non-resident property 9wner who paid taxes in
the amount of one dollar a year. Otherwise than as above
stated there is no allegation tending to show dissatisfaction
with the legislation prior to September, 1897, when the brick
company defendant entered upon the work which led to the
assessment in dispute in this suit. During these years the city
authorities have, as the bill alleges, performed all the functions
of government in the territory, and taxes have been imposed
and collected (presumably from complainants among others),
improvements commenced and continued, interest on bonds
paid, and"no action taken by any one to prevent these measures or to test their validity. What may have been the secret
thoughts of the complainants or other citizens during all this
time must be matter wholly immaterial, so long as there was
such acquiescence on the part of the public authorities as has
been stated in the opinion of the court in the quo warranto
case, and such as substantially appears by the allegations of
the bill in this suit. The particular allegations of non-acquiescence by the complainants do not detract from tha strength
of the principles laid down by the state court, nor do they in
any degree affect the full applicability of those principles to
the facts set up in the bill in this suit. The action of the State
against the city of Des Moines has been the only thing done
towards making any attempt to test the question of the validity of the legislation prior to the commencement of this suit.
In this suit we are bound to take the law of Iowa as it has
been decided to be in the quo warranto case. In that case it
has been deliberately decided that the validity of the organi-

McCATI

v. DES MOINES.

Opinion of the Court.

zation of the municipal government in the whole territory in
which it has been in practical operation for so long a time
cannot be the subject of judicial inquiry by any one at this
late day. Such being the law of Iowa, we are of opinion that
an allegation in the bill that this is a controversy and a suit of
a civil nature arising under the Constitution and laws of the
United States, is not supported by the facts appearing in the
bill. The facts alleged must show the nature of the suit, and
it must plainly appear that it arises under the Constitution or
laws- of the -United States; that is, there must be'a real and
substantial dispute as to the effect or construction of the Constitution or of some law of the United States, upon the determination of which the recovery depends. Shr'eveport'v. Cole,.
129 U. S.36; Nhew Orleans v. Benjamin, 153 U. S.411.
Taking the law of Iowa to be as decided in the case mentioned, it appears that the validity of the city government- has
been sustained by the state court, and in that event there is not
a shadow of a Federal question in this suit, for if the city government be valid, the regularity and validity of the proposed
assessment necessarily follow, and there cannot be even a pretence that the collection of the assessment would be without
due process of law.
The allegation that the suit arises under the Constitution of
the United States is so palpably unfounded that it constitutes
not even a color for the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court.
That court was therefore right in dismissing the bill, and its
decree must be
Affir med.

