OCTOBER TERIM, 1898.
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

court," the final decree of foreclosure and sale, and the decrees
for delivery of possession to the purchasers, were all made by
Judge Pardee; and the appeal, in the hearing and decision of
which he took part, from the decree of another judge concerning the compensation of Dillingham as receiver, involved a
consideration of the scope and effect of his own order allowing that receiver a certain sum monthly.
The necessary conclusion is that Judge Pardee was incompetent to sit on the appeal in question, and the decree in which
he participated was not made by a court constituted as required
by law; and therefore thiis court, without considering whether
that decree was or was not erroneous in other respects, orders
the
Decree of the Circuit Court of Apeals to be set aside and
quashed, and the case remanded to that court to be there
heard and determined according to law by a bench of com-

petent judges.
KIMBALL v. KIMBALL.
ERROR TO THE SURROGATE'S

COURT

OF

THE COUNTY

OF RNG5S

STATE OF NEW YORK.
No. 248. Argued April 19, 1599. -Decided

May 1, 19.

If the petition of a woman, claiming to be the widow of a man supposed
to have died intestate, for the revocation of letters of administration
previously granted to his next of kin, and for the grant of such letters
to her, is dismissed by the surrogate's court upon the ground that a decree of divorce obtained by her in another State from a former husband
Is void; and she appeals from the judgment of dismissal to the highest
court of the State, which affirms that judgment; and, pending a writ
of error from this court, it is shown that a will of the deceased was
proved in the surrogate's court after its judgment dismissingher petition, and before her appeal from that judgment; the writ of error must
be dismissed.

THE statement of the case is in the opinion of the court.
Mr. George Bell for plaintiff in error.
Harlock was on his' brief,

br. Faldegrave

KIMBALL v. KIMBALL.
Opinion of the Court.

.Mr. -Lemuel H. A?,nold for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE

GRAY delivered the opinion of the court.

This action was begun December 18, 1896, by a petition of
Maude E. Kimball, claiming to be the widow of Edward 0.
Kimball, (who resided in Brooklyn, and died there, without
issue, on November 9, 1896,) to the surrogate's court of the

county of Kings in the State of New York, praying that
letters of administration granted by that court on November
10, 1896, to his mother and his brother in law, upon a petition
representing that he died intestate and unmarried, be revoked,
and that this petitioner be appointed administratrix.
The administrators previously appointed, being cited to
show cause why the prayer of her petition should not be
granted, filed an answer, denying that she was the widow of
the deceased.
At the hearing in the surrogate's court, it was proved and
admitted that Edward C. Kimball and the petitioner went
through the ceremony of marriage at Brooklyn on June 29,
1895; that she had been married on May 12, 1885,'to James
L. Semon in the city of New York; that on September 25,
1890, she commenced a suit against Semon in a court of the
State of North Dakota for a divorce on the ground of hiq
desertion; that the summons in that suit was not served upon
him in North Dakota, but was served upon him in the State
of New York on October 15, 1890; that on January 26, 1891,
that court rendered a decree of divorce against him as upon
his default; that she was living in North Dakota from June
5, 1890, to February 5, 1891; that when she brought her suit
for divorce, and ever since, Semon was a resident of the State
of New York; and that on December 16, 1896, that court, upon
his application and after notice to her, amended the decree of
divorce by striking out the statement of his default, and by
stating, in lieu thereof, that he had appeared and answered in
the suit. Copies of the record of the proceedings for divorce
were produced; and the principal matter contested in the surrogate's court was the validity of the divorce.

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

The surrogate's court held that the decree of divorce and
the marriage of the petitioner to the intestate were absolutely
void at the time of his death, and were not rendered valid by
the subsequent amendment of the decree of divorce; and by
-a decree dated March 8, 1897, adjudged that the petitioner
was not the widow of Edward 0. Kimball, nor entitled as
such to letters of administration of his estate; and further
adjudged that her petition be dismissed. On April 5, 1897,
the petitioner appealed from that decree to the Appellate Division of the Supreme Court of the State of New York, which
on June 22, 1897, affirmed the decree. In "re Kimball, 18
N. Y. App. Div. 320. From the decree of affirmance, the
petitioner on August 19, 1897, appealed to the Court of Appeals of the State of New York; and that court, on February
4, 1898, affirmed the decree, and ordered the case to be remitted to the surrogate's court. 155 N. Y. 62.
The petitioner sued out this writ of error, and assigned for
error that the courts of New York had not given due faith
and credit to the decree of the court of North Dalkota.
. The writ of error was entered in this court on February 21,
1898. On-March 22, 1898, the defendants in error moved to
dismiss the writ of error, because of the following facts, proved
by them, and admitted by the plaintiff in error, namely: On
March 25, 1897, on a petition of the mother and sister of
Edward C. Kimball, representing that his last will and testament, dated July 7, 1890, devising and bequeathing to them
all his property, real and personal, and appointing them executrices thereof, had just been found, the surrogate's court, upon
due proof of its execution and attestation, entered a decree
admitting the will to probate, ordering letters testamentary
to be issued to the executrices, and revoking the lettets of
administration which had been granted to the mother and the
brother in law on November 10, 1896. The entry of the decree
of March 25, 1897, was notified by the counsel of the present
defendants in error to the counsel of.the plaintiff in error on
the day on which it took place.
The motion to dismiss was opposed by the plaintiff in error,
upon the grounds- that the judgment below involved a Federal

KIMBALL v. KIMBALL.
Opinion of the Court.

question within the jurisdiction of this court; that a dismissal
of the writ of error would leave the plaintiff in error bound by
the adjudication below that she was not the widow of the
deceased; that the admission of the will to probate had no
bearing on the question before this court; and that the defendants in error had been guilty of laches in not sooner
making .a motion to dismiss.
The consideration of the motion to dismiss the writ of error
was postponed until the hearing upon the merits, and now
presents itself at the *threshold.
The rule which must govern the disposition of this motion
has been often stated and acted on by this court.
In a comparatively recent case, pending a writ of error to
reverse a judgment for a railroad corporation in an action
against it by a State to recover sums of money for taxes, it
was shown that the defendant had made a tender of those
sums to the State, and a deposit of them in a bank to its credit,
which by statute had the same effect as actual payment and
r eceipt of the money. Stipulations had been made in other
similar cases that they should abide the judgment of this
court in this case; and the Attorney General of the State
contended that a determination of the question whether the
tax was valid was of the utmost importance to the people of
the State. But this court dismissed the writ of error, saying:
"The duty of this court, as of every judicial tribunal, is limited
to determining rights of persons or of property, which are
actually controverted in the particular case before it. When,
in determining such rights, it becomes necessary to give an
opinion upon a question of law; that opinion may have weight
as a precedent for future decisions. But the court is not
empowered to decide moot questions or abstract propositions,
or to declare, for the government of future cases, principles or.
rules of law which cannot affect the result as to the thing in
issue in the case before it. No stipulation of parties or counsel, whether in the case before the court or in any other case,
can enlarge the power or affect the duty of the court in this
regard." Californiav. San Pablo & Tulare, Railroad,149
U, S. 308, 314.
vOL. LXIV-11

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

Again, in a still more recent case, this court, upon a review
of the previous decisions, said: "The duty of this court, as of
every other judicial tribunal, is to decide actual controversies
by a judgment which can be carried into effect, and not to
give opinions upon moot questions or abstract propositions, or
to declare principles or rules of law which cannot affect the
niatter in issue in the case before it. It necessarily follows
that when, pending an appeal from the judgment of a lower
court, and without any fault of the defendant, an event occurs
which renders it impossible.for thi.Aourt, if it should decide
the case in favor of the plaintiff, to grant him any effectual
relief whatever, the court will-not proceed to a formal judgment, but will dismiss the appeal." Miills v. Green, 159 U. S.
651, 653.
From the necessity of the case, this court is compelled, as
all other courts are, to allow facts which affect its right and
its duty to proceed in the exercise of its appellate jurisdiction,
but which do not appear upon the record before it, to be proved
by extrinsic evidence. .Dakota County v. Glidden, 113 U. S.
222, 225, 226; Mills v. Green, above cited.
The reasons are quite as strong, to say the least, for applying the rule to a writ of error to a state court, on which the
jurisdiction of this court is limited to Federal questions only,
as to a writ of error to a Circuit Court of the United States,
on which the jurisdiction of this court extends to the whole
case. The rule was applied to a writ of error to the Court of
Errors and Appeals of the State of NTew Jersey in Little v.
Bowers, 134 U. S. 547.
In the present case, the subject matter of the petition to
the surrogate's court, and the only relief which could be
granted upon that petition, were the revocation of the letters
of administration previously issued to the mother and the
brother in law of the deceased, and the grant of new letters
of administration to the petitioner. The decree admitting
the will to probate, in terms, revoked the former letters of
administration, and, by its legal effect, superseded the necessity and the possibility of granting any letters of administra
tion as of an intestate estate to the petitioner or to any one

KIMBALL v. KIMBALL.
Opinion of the Court.

else. -New York Code of Civil Procedure, ยง 2476, 2626, 2684.
The whole subject matter of the writ of error is thus withdrawn, and the writ of error must be dismissed for want of
anything upon which it can operate. Chicago & Vincennes
Railroad v. Fosdick, 106 U. S. 47, 84; San MAfateo County v.
Southern Pacifo Railroad,116 U. S. 138; Washington Jtfarket
Co. v. Districtof Columbia, 137 U. S. 62.
The question whether the petitioner was or was not the
widow of the deceased, whatever importance it may have in
the determination of other controversies in which she may be
interested, is a moot question in this case in the present condition of things; for, however that question should be decided,
the petitioner cannot obtain letters of administration, and the
letters of administration granted to other persons have been
revoked.
The objection of laches is of no weight. No consent of
parties can authorize this court to exercise jurisdiction over a
case in which it is powerless to grant relief. Little v. Bowers,
134 U. S. 558, 559; California v. San Pablo & Tulare Railroad, above cited. The probate of the will was granted, and
was known to both parties to this suit, ten days before the
petitioner appealed from the decree of the surrogate's court.
Yet neither party appears to have requested the surrogate to
modify the form of his decree against the petitioner. Had
the probate of the will been brought to the notice of either
of the appellate courts of the State of New York, that court
might probably have dismissed the case, for the reason that
its decision could not be made effe~tual by a judgment. Peo2pe v. Clark, 70 N. Y. 518, 520. The neglect of both parties
to bring that fact to the notice of those courts affords no
reason "for this court's assuming to decide a question, the
decision of which cannot affect the relief to be ultimately
granted in this case.
Wrt of error dismissed.

