WHITE v. LEOVY.
Opinion of the Court.

WHITE v. LEOVY.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF LOUISIANA.
No. 232. Submitted April 3, 1899.-Decided April 24, 1899.

From the statement of this case made by the Supreme Court of Louisiana
in its opinion, quoted in the opinion of this court, it is manifest that no
Federal question was passed upon by- that court, but that its decision
was put upon an independent ground, involving no Federal question, and
of itself sufficient to support the judgment below; and this court therefore dismisses the writ of error.

THE

case is stated in the opinion.-

.Mr.E. Howard _McCaleb for plaintiff in error.
-.M. Alexander Porter .forse, -Y'. Henry J

Leovy and Mr.

Victor .Leovy for defendants in error.
YR.

TusTicE

McR

delivered the opinion of the court.
Am.

.This is an action of jactitation or slander of title, andlis
here on error from the Supreme Court of the State of Louisiana. A motion is made to dismiss for want of jurisdiction
in this court on the ground that no Federal question was
decided. We think the motion should be granted.
Both parties, who were respectively plaintiff and defendants
in the court below, derive title from the State of Louisiana by
patents which were issued in execution of the grant to it of
swamp and overflowed lands. Plaintiff's patent was prior in
time to that of defendants, and it is claimed that by the issue
of the latter the State "has attempted to impair the obligations of the contract between the State of Louisiana and the
said IRobert M. White, plaintiff herein, and deprive him of his
property without due process of law, in violation of the Constitution and laws 6f the United States."
The title of the State must be assumed, and the contest is
by which patent that title passed. It seems almost inevitable

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

that the questions hence arising would be state ones, an:d that
the decision of the Supreme Court was confined to such a
question is manifest from its opinion. 49 La. Ann. 1660.
After defining the action under the Louisiana laws, and
stating upon whom the burden of establishing title devolved,
it said:
"The descriptibn of the land which was purchased by the
plaintiff, which was evidenced by the patent that issued to the
plaintiff, is of the following tenor, viz.: 'All the unsurveyed
marsh west of lots fronting on the right bank of the Mississippi, except section No. sixteen (16), in township twenty-two
(22) south, of range thirty-one (31) east, in the southeastern
west of the river land district, containing thirty-eight hundred
and forty (3840) acres, according to the official plat of the
survey of said lands in the state land office.'
"The number of the patent is 4058, and it states that the
purchase was made with certificate No. 2251, N. S. L."
The plaintiff's petition, original and supplemental, contained
the same description.
"The answer of the defendant H. J. Leovy," the opinion
further says, "is to the effect that the land claimed by the
plaintiff and called for by his patent ' was entered according
to an official plat or survey made by G. F. Connelly in 1836,
[and]

.

.

.

was all within a distance of less than two miles

of -the Mississippi River, and all territory to the west of that
was at the date of that survey, and by the plat by which White
claims to have bought, West Bay.
'That a few years after Connelly made said survey the
Jump Outlet broke through, and the accumulation on the seaward side of said marsh and in said bay gradually raised the
bed of said bay until the whole of said West Bay became
marsh land, connecting with swamp land to the westward,
and at the time of said lands being transferred to the State,
in. 184:9 and 1850, by Congress it was not a navigable bay or
part of the sea.'
"The answer then charges that the plaintiff, well knowing
all these facts, and endeavoring to perpetrate a fraud upon the
State, 'entered the lands originally allotted by Connelly, and

WHITE v. IJEOVY.
Opinion of the Court.

under his patent 4058 is endeavoring to claim over sixteen
thousand (16,000) more acres in said township' than he is
entitled to claim thereunder, and by 'a. malicious suit now
seeks to cast -a cloud upon the title of others who have
honestly
entered the western lands in said township
.
and according to law, and who are in the peaceable and
undisturbed possession of the same.! 1
The answer of the other defendant was similar. And
further-

"In limine litis plaintiff's counsel filed an exception and
motion to strike out a portion of the defendant's answers on
the ground that the official plat of survey of G. F. Connelly,
United States surveyor, made in 1836, and on which his
patent was based, cannot, be questioned or impeached by the
defendant, and this court is wholly without jurisdiction -to
determine whether same is or not erroneous. And that the
said patent cannot be questioned or impeached by the defendant for fraud or error.
"That the United States Government, as the owner of the
sea marsh adjacent to the seashore and to West Bay,
'acquired all the alluvian made by accretion to said lands
between the years 1836 and 1850; and when said lands were
granted by the United States Government to the State of
Louisiana,' same passed to the State by the granting act of
Congress, and that same passed to the plaintiff as patentee
thereof, and 'that he acquired all of said lands as well as the
accretions which were added thereto, as they were at the time
they were granted by the United States to the State of Louisianan, said granting act passing a fee simple title inprmenti to
the State, not only as the land was at the time of the survey by
Connelly. in 1836, but as it was at the date of the grant, and
that the whole was acquired by the plaintiff as patentee.
"His additional representation is that the plaintiff as patentee 'acquired all of said lands in township No.22 south,
range No.31 east, on the southeastern west of the river land
district, according to the official survey of said lands in the
state land oflce, as they were at- the time they wer granted by
the United States to the State of Louisiana.'"

OCTOBER TERX, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

The decision of the district court was in favor of the
motion, and after comment on the ruling the Supreme Court
said:
"Reduced to a last analysis, the pleadings present for our
consideration and decision a purely petitory action, in which
the defendant holds the affirmative side of the controversy
and is bound to succeed on the strength of his own title, and
in deciding the question of title we are to determine whether
the patents which the State issued to H. J. Leovy, in 1893,
reflect a title which is superior and paramount to the
patent which the State issued to the plaintiff in 1890, to the
extent that they conflict.
"This controversy is not so much with regard to the
character or strength of the respective parties as it, is with
regard to the area or domain which the State actually and
really conveyed to the plaintiff; for it is quite true and cannot be denied that the State was whplly without power to
convey to the defendant H. J. Leovy any land in 1893 which
she had previously sold to the plaintiff in 1890, without
trenching upon the issues of error or fraud which were
excluded from consideration. In other words, we are to
determine from the evidence before us whether the plaintiff's
patent covers and includes all the land in township twentytwo south, of range thirty-one east, in the southeastern land
district west of the Mississippi River; for if it does, in fact,
the patents which were subsequently issued to the defendant
H. J. Leovy do not reflect a paramount title thereto."
The court then gave elaborate consideration to the views
of the district court, expressing its dissent from them; also
at great length reviewed the evidence and the land laws of
the State and the descripftions of the respective patents, and
concluded as follows:
"As, in our opinion, this controversy is quite similar to the
one presented in Buras v. O'Brien-that is to say, one for
the determination of th6 area of sea marsh which is covered
by a state patent- our conclusion is that the plaintiff's
patent 4058 does not extend to nor include the land which is
called for by the patents which were subsequently issued by

WHITE v. LEOVY.
Opinion of the Court.

the State to the defendant H. J. Leovy, and that consequently
there is no conflict between them.
"Under the jurisprudence and statutes of this State governing the sale and entry of swamp and marsh lands, we think
it our duty to consider all the provisions and recitals of patents issued therefor and to give same effect according to their
tenor; and thus considering the patent of the plaintiff, we
regard it as evidencing a sale by measure and not by estimation of quantity. We consider the words thereof 'containing
3840 acres' as limiting the words preceding, 'all the unsurveyed marsh west of lots fronting on the right bank of the
Mississippi,' and that the reference made therein to ' the official plat of the survey of said lands in the state land office'
was intended to verify and confirm the statement as to the
character and extent of the area of land which was actually
conveyed to the patentee.
"We are of the opinion that inasmuch as the plaintiff's
patent 4058 calls for 'all the unsurveyed marsh west of lots
fronting on the Mississippi, except section sixteen in township
twenty-two,' he is not entitled to survey, select and appropriate all the dry land or swamp land above overflow in said
township in, order to make out the quantity of '3840 acres' he
purchased.
"We are of opinion that inasmuch as the patent conveys
'all the unsurveyed marsh west of the lots fronting on the
Mississippi,' those lots must be taken as the initial point from
which the area is to be computed, same being the only fixed
and definite boundary mentioned in the patent.
"Thus considering the law and the evidence, we are of
opinion that there should be judgment in favor of the defendant H. J. Leovy maintaining his patents as reflecting the paramount title to the lands which are therein described, and
perpetuating his writ of injunction."
It is manifest no Federal question was passed on by the
court. Its decision was put upon -an independent ground
involving no Federal question and of itself sufficient to support the judgment. It merely determined the extent of the
grant to the State, and, interpreting the contending patents

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Counsel for Plaintiff in Error.

as conveyances, decided that the lands described in that of
plaintiff did not embrace the lands in controversy, and that
the lands described in: that of defendant did embrace them.
This was but the interpretation of written instruments, and if
it were even apparent to us to be wrong, which we cannot say,
we should nevertheless be without power to review it.
In Remington Paper Co. v. Watson, 173 U. S. 443, we had
occasion to repeat and affirm the rule announced in Eustis v.
Bolles, 150 U. S. 361, 370, "that when we find it unnecessary
to decide any Federal question, and when the state court has
based its decision on a local or state question, our logical
course is to dismiss the writ of error."
The writ of erroris dismissed.

ATCHISON, TOPEKA AND SANTA FE RAILROAD
COMPANY v. MATTHEWS.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME- COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
No. 147.

Submitted January 18, 1899. -Decided

April 17, 1899.

The provision in ยง 2 of c. 155 of the acts of Kansas of 1885, entitled "An
act relating to the liability of railroads for damages by fire," that, ", in
all actions commenced under this act, if the plaintiff shall recover, there
shall be allowed him by the court a reasonable attorney's fee, which shall
become a part of the judgment," must, for reasons stated in the opinion
of the court, be sustained as legislation authorized by the Constitution
of the United States.

THE statement of the case will be found in the opinion of
the court.
-Mr.Robert Dunla, and -Mr. . D. Renna, for plaintiff in
error, submitted on their brief.
No appearance for defendants in error.

