OCTOBER TERMf, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

UNITED STATES v. RIO GRANDE DAM AND
IRRIGATION COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM TH1E SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF NEW
MEXIGO.
No. 215. Argued Rovember T, 8,1898.-Decided May 22,1899.

The river, Rio Grande, within the limits of New Mexico, is not a stream
over which, in its ordinary condition, trade and travel can be conducted
in the customary modes of trade and travel on water.
The unquestioned rule of the common law was that every riparian owner
was entitled to the continued natural flow of the stream; but every State
has the power, within its dominion, to change this rule, and permit the
appropriation of the flowing waters for such purposes as it deems wise:
whether a Territory has this right is not decided.
By acts of Congress referred to in the opinion, Congress recognized and
assented to the appropriation of water in contravention of the common
law rules; but it is not to be inferred that Congress thereby meant to
confer on any State the right to appropriate all the waters of the tributary streams which unite into a navigable watercourse, and so destroy
the navigability of that watercourse in derogation of the interests of all
the people of the United States.
The act of September 19, 1890, c. 907, on this subject, must be held controlling, at least as to any rights attempted to be created since its passage.

Ox May 24, 1897, the United States, by their Attorney
General, filed their bill of complaint in the district court of
the third judicial district of New Mexico against the Rio
Grande Dam and Irrigation Company, the purpose of which
was to restrain the defendant from constructing a dam across
the Rio Grande River in the Territory of New Mexico, and
appropriating the waters of that stream for the purposes of
irrigation. A temporary injunction was issued on the filing
of the bill. Thereafter, and on the 19th day of June, 1897,
an- amended bill was filed, making the Rio Grande Irrigation
and Land Company, Limited, an additional defendant, the
scope and purpose of the amended bill being similar to that
of the original. The amended bill stated that the original
defendant was a corporation organized under the laws of the
Territory of New Mexico, and the new defendant a corpora-

UNITED STATES v. RIO GRANDE IRRIGATION CO. 691.
Statement of the Case.

tion organized under the laws of Great Britain. It was
averred that the purpose of the original defendant, as set
forth in its articles of incorporation and as avowed by it, was
to construct dams across the Rio Grande River in the Territory of New Mexico at such points as might be necessary,
-and thereby "to accumulate and impound waters from said
river in unlimited quantities in said dams and reservoirs, and
distribute the same through said canals, ditches and pipe
lines." The new defendant was charged to have become interested as lessee of or contractor with the original -defendant.
The bill further set forth that the new defendant "has attempted to exercise and has claimed the right to exercise all
the rights, privileges and franchises of the said original defendant, and has given out as its objects as said agent, lessee
or assignee, as aforesaid, to construct said dams, reservoirs,ditches and pipe lines and take and impound the water of
said river, and thereby to create the largest artificial lake in
the world, and to obtain control of the entire flow of the said
Rio Grande and divert and use the same for the purposes of
irrigating large bodies of land, and to supply water for cities
and towns, and for domestic and municipal purposes, and for
milling and mechanical power;" "that the Rio Grande receives no addition to its volume of water between the pro.
jected dam and the mouth of the Conchos River, about three
hundred miles below, and that the said Rio Grande, from the
point of said projected dam to the mouth of the Conchos
River, throughout almost its entire course from the latter part
to its mouth, flows through an exceedingly porous soil, and
that the atmosphere of the section of the country through
which said river flows, from the point above the dam to the
Gulf of Mexico, is so dry that the evaporation proceeds with
great rapidity, and that the impounding of tho waters will
greatly increase the evaporation, and that from these causes
but little water, after it is distributed over the surface of the
earth, would be returned to the river." The bill also averred
that the Rio Grande River was navigable and had been navigated by steamboats from its mouth three hundred and fifty
miles up to the town of Roma, in the State of Texas; that it

OOTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.'

was susceptible of navigation above Roma to a point about
three hundred and fifty miles below El Paso, in Texas, and
then, after stating that there were certain rapids or falls
which there interfered with navigation, it alleged navigability
from El Paso to La Joya, about one hundred miles above
Elephant. Butte, the place at which it was proposed to erect
the principal dam, and that it had been used between those
points for the floating and transportation of rafts, logs and
poles. The bill further alleged "that the impounding of the
Waters of said river by the construction of said dam and reservoir at said point, called Elephant Butte, about one hundred
and twenty-five miles above the city of El Paso, said point
being in the Territory of New Mexico, and the diversion of
the said waters and the use of the same for the purposes hereinbefore mentioned, will so deplete and prevent the flow of
water through the channel of said river below said dam, when
so constructed, as to seriously obstruct, the navigable capacity
of the said river throughout its entire course from said point
at Elephant Butte- to its mouth." Then, after denying that
any -authority had been given by the United States for the
construction of said dam, it set forth the treaty stipulations
between the United States and the Republic of Mexico in
reference to the navigability of the Rio Grande, so far as it
remained a boundary between the two nations.
To this amended bill the defendants filed their joint and.
several pleas and answer. The pleas were principally to the
effect that the site of the proposed dam was wholly within
the Territory of New Mexico, and within its arid region;
that in pursuance of several acts of Congress the Secretary of
the Interior and the officers of the Geological Survey had
located and segregated from the public domain a reservoir
site called "38" on the river just above Elephant Butte, and
another called "39" just below that point; that subsequently,
in pursuance of another act of "ongress, these and all other
reservoir sites were thrown open to corporate and private
entry; that the original defendant had applied to enter the,
two sites, "38" and "39;" that it was incorporated under
the. laws of New Mexico and had complied with all. the laws

UNITED STATES v. RIO GRANDE IRRIGATIOIN CO. 693
Statement of the Case.

of that Territory in reference to the construction of reservoirs
and dams and the diversion of waters of public streams; that
it had duly filed proof of its organization, its maps of survey
of reservoir and canals, with the Secretary of the Interior, and
had secured his approval thereof in accordance with the laws
of the United States. The answer admitted incorporation,
the purpose to construct a dam and reservoir at Elephant
Butte, and then proceeded, "but in so far as that portion of
said bill is concerned, which charges that the Rio Grande
Irrigation and Land Company, Limited, is seeking to obtain
control of the entire flow of said Rio Grande, and to divert and
use the same, these defendants state that the entire flow of
the Rio Grande during the irrigation season at the point -or
points where these defendants are seeking to construct reservoirs upon the same, has long since been diverted and is
now owned and beneficially used by parties other than these
defendants, in which diversion and appropriation of said waters these defendants have no property rights, and that neither one
of the defendants is seeking or has ever sought to appropriate
or divert by means of structures above referred to, or contemplated diversion by means thereof, of any of the waters of
said Rio Grande usually flowing in the bed thereof during
the time when the same are usually put to beneficial use by
those who have heretofore diverted the same; but on the contrary these defendants state that it has been their intention,
and their sole intention, by means of the structures which they
contemplate and which are complained of in said bill, to store,
control, divert and use only such of the waters of said stream
as are not legally diverted, appropriated, used and owned by
others, and that these defendants have contemplated and now
contemplate that any beneficial rights by them acquired in
such stream by virtue of such structures will be very largely
only so acquired to the excess, storm and flood waters thereof
now unappropriated, useless and which go to waste."
The answer also denied that the river was susceptible of
navigation, or had been navigated above Roma, in the State
of Texas, or had been used beneficially for the purposes of
navigation in the Territory of New Mexico, or was susceptible

.OTO1IR ThEMRI, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

of being so used; that the contemplated use of the waters
would deplete the flow thereof through the channel so as to
seriously obstruct the navigability of the river at any point
.below the proposed dam; that defendants were proposing to
construct a dam and reseriroir without due process of law, or
that the contemplated dam and reservoir would be a violation
of our treaties with Mexico. The United States filed a general replication. Defendants moved to dissolve the temporary injunction, while the Government moved to have the
several pleas set down for argument as to their sufficiency as
a defence. Several affidavits and documents were filed by
the respective parties. On July 31, 1897, the matters came
on for hearing, whereupon the court entered a decree, which
recited that the parties appeared by their counsel "under the
rule heretofore made upon the defendant, Rio Grande Dam
and Irrigation Company, to show cause, if any it had, why
the injunction, heretofore granted, restraining it from maintaining and erecting a dam in the Rio Grande River at a point
called Elephant Butte, fully described in the original and
amended bills, filed herein and in said order, should not be
continued; and the said complainant, the United States of
America, having filed an amended bill in said cause, making
the Rio Grande Irrigation and Land Company, Limited, a party
thereunder, and the said defendant, in answer to said amended
bill, having filed a special plea in bar and having also answered
said amended bill and also filed a motion to dissolve the injunction and to dismiss the original and amended bills so filed by
complainant herein, and the complainant thereupon having
filed its motion to set down defendants' pleas for argument
as to their sufficiency as defence to said suit as a matter of
law, and the court having heard the arguments of counsel and
having read the affidavits, extracts from geological reports,
agricultural reports, reports of engineers and of the Secretary
of War, histories and other sources of information, and having
had submitted to it an official map of the Territory of New
Mexico and of the United States of America, showing the
source, trend, course and mouth of the Rio Grande River in
N~ew Mexico and throughout the United States and being

tNITED STATES v. RIO GRANDE IRRIGATION CO. 695
Opinion of the Court.

fully advised thereby, doth take judicial notice of the fact
and doth thereby determine that the Rio Grande River is not
navigable within the Territory of New Mexico, and doth find
as a matter of law that said amended bill does not state a case
entitling the complainant to the relief asked for in the prayer
of said amended bill and that the same is without equity and
the complainant having further declined to amend said bill:
The court doth order, adjudge and decree, that the said injunction, heretofore issued herein, be dissolved and that said
cause be, and the same hereby is, dismissed, and that the defendants have and recover their reasonable costs herein to be
taxed against complainant."
An appeal was taken to the Supreme Court of the Territory,
which, on January 5, 1898, affirmed the decree. From this
affirmance the United States appealed to this court.
.Mr. Atorney General for appellant.
.Mr. T B. 3lo Gowan for appellee.
MR. JusTicE BREWER, after making the foregoing statement, delivered the opinion of the court.

The first question is as to the scope of the decision of the
trial court and what is, therefore, presented to us for consideration. Was this a final hearing upon pleadings .alone,
with all the facts alleged in the answer admitted to be true,
or a final hearing upon pleadings and proofs with the decree
in effect finding the truth of those facts? Without stopping
to inquire whether the record shows a strict compliance with
the technical rules of equity procedure, we think the terms of.
the final order or decree, as well as the language of the-opinion filed by the trial judge, clearly disclose what he decided,
and what, therefore, is presented to this court for review. It
appears that no depositions were taken.
Certain affidavits
and documents were filed, matter proper for presentation on
an application for the continuance or dissolution of a temporary injunction. The final order or decree enumerates

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

the different motions, and adds that the court having heard
the arguments of counsel and having read the affidavits, etc.,
"doth take judicial notice of the fact and doth thereby determine that the Rio Grande River is not navigable within
the Territory of New Mexico, and doth find as a matter of
law that said amended bill does not state a case entitling the
complainant to the relief asked for in the prayer of said
amended bill, and that the same is without equity, and the
complainant having further declined to amend said bill," the
injunction is dissolved and the bill dismissed.
Obviously, the only matter of fact which the court attempted to determine (and that determination appears to
have been based partly upon the affidavits and documents
filed and partly upon judicial notice) was that the Rio
Grande River was not navigable within the limits of the
Territory of New Mexico, and, so determining, it adjudged
and decreed that the complainant's bill was without equity.
In other words, finding that the Rio 4rande River was not
navigable within the limits of the Territory of New Mexico,
and that the averments of the bill in that respect were not
true, it held that, conceding all the other averments of the bill
to be true, the plaintiff was not entitled to relief.
The Supreme Court of the Territory, as appears from its
opinion, held that the Rio Grande River was not navigable
within the limits of the Territory of New Mexico; that,
therefore, the United States had no jurisdiction over the
stream, and that, assuming its non-navigability within the
limits of the Territory, the plaintiff was not, under the other
facts set forth in the bill, entitled to any relief. Whatever
criticisms may be expressed as to the form in which the proceedings vere had and the decree entered, these distinctly
appear as the matters decided by the trial and Supreme
Courts, and to them, therefore, our inquiry should -run.
The trial court assumed to take judicial notice that the Rio
Grande was not navigable within the limits of New Mexico.
The right to do this was conceded by the counsel of the
Government, on the hearing below, a concession which the
Attorney General, on the argument before us, declined to

UNITED STATES v. RIO GRANDE IRRIGATION C0. 691
Opinion of the Court.

continue. The extent to which judicial notice will go is not,
in all cases, perfectly clear.- There are indisputably certain
matters as to which there is a legal imputation of knowledge.
In Greenleaf on Evidence, sees. 4, 5 and 6, the author enumerates many of these. Further, he adds as a general proposition: "In fine, courts will generally take notice of whatever
ought to be generally known within the limits of their jurisdiction." Brown v. Piver,91 U. S. 37. While this will undoubtedly be accepted as an accurate statement of the law, it
is obvious that there might be, and in fact there is, much diffi-.
culty in determining what ought to be generally known. So
that the application of this rule has, as might be expected, led
to some conflict in the authorities.
It was said in The Apollon, 9 Wheat. 362-374: "It has
been very justly observed at the bar that the court is bound
to take notice of public facts and geographical positions."
In Peyroux v. Howard et al., 7 Pet. 324, the court held that
it was "authorized judicially to notice the situation of New
Orleans for the purpose of determining whether the tide ebbs
and flows as high up the river as that place." In The -Montello, 11 Wall. 411-41., it was observed: "We are supposed
to know judicially the principal features of the geography
of our country, and, as a part of it, what streams are public
navigable waters of the United States." But the force of
this general statement is qualified by the declaration at the
close of the opinion: "As the decree must be reversed and
the cause remanded to the court below for further proceedings, the parties will be able to present, by new allegations
and evidence, the precise character of Fox River as a navigable stream, and not leave the matter to be inferred by construction from an imperfect pleading."
This case came again to this court, 20 Wall. 430, and the
record there discloses that testimony was introduced on the
second hearing for the purpose of throwing light on the question of navigability.
In Wlrood v. -Fowler,26 Kansas, 682-687, the Supreme Court
of that State said: "Indeed, it would seem absurd to require evidence as to that which every man of common

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

information must know. To attempt to prove that the Mississippi or the Missouri is a navigable stream would seem an
insult to the intelligence of the court. The presumption of
general knowledge weakens as we pass to smaller and less
known streams; and yet, within the limits of any State the
navigability of its largest rivers ought to be generally known,
and the courts may properly assume it to be a matter of
general knowledge and take judicial notice thereof."
It is reasonable that the courts take judicial notice that
certain rivers are navigable and others not, for these are matters of general knowledge. But it is not so clear that it can
fairly be said, in respect to a river known to be navigable,
that it is, or ought to be, a matter of common knowledge at
what particular place between its mouth and its source navigability ceases. And so it may well be doubted whether the
courts will take judicial notice of that fact. It would seem
that such a matter was one requiring evidence, and to be determined by proof. That the Rio Grande, speaking generally, is a navigable river is clearly shown by the affidavits.
It is also a matter of common knowledge, and therefore the
courts may properly take judicial notice of that fact. But
how many know how far up the stream navigability extends?
Can it be said to be a matter of general knowledge, or one
that ought to be generally known? If not, it should be determined by evidence. Examining the affidavits and other
evidence introduced in this case, it is clear to us that the Rio
Grande is not navigable within the limits of the Territory of
New Mexico. The mere fact that logs, poles and rafts are
floated down a stream occasionally and in times of high water
does not make it a navigable river. It was said in Tie _Yonte/io, 20 Wall. 430, 439, "that those rivers must be regarded
as public navigable rivers in law which are navigable in fact.
And they are navigable in fact when they are used, or are
susceptible of being used, in their ordinary condition, as highways for commerce, over which trade and travel are or may
be conducted in the customary modes of trade and travel on
water." And again (p. 442): "It is not, however, as Chief
Justice Shaw said, 21 Pickering, 344, 'every small -creek in

UNITED STATES v. RIO GRANDE IRRIGATION Co.

699

Opinion of the Court.

which a fishing skiff or gunning canoe can be made to fiQat
at high water which is deemed navigable, but, in order to
give it the character of a navigable stream, it must be generally and commonly useful to some purpose of trade or
agriculture.'"
Obviously, the Rio Grande within the limits of New Mexico
is not a stream over which in its ordinary condition trade and
travel can be conducted in the customary modes of trade and
travel on water. Its use for any purposes of transportation
has been and is exceptional, and only in times of temporary
high water. The ordinary flow of water is insufficient. It is
not like the Fox River, which was considered in The fXontello,
in which was an abundant flow of water and a general capacity
for navigation along its entire length, and although it was
obstructed at certain places by rapids and rocks, yet these
difficulties could be overcome by canals and locks, and when
so overcome would leave the stream in its ordinary condition
susceptible of use for general navigation purposes. We are
not, therefore, disposed to question the conclusion reached by
the trial court and 'the Supreme Court of the Territory, that
the Rio Grande within the limits of New Mexico is not navigable.
Neither is it necessary to consider the treaty stipulations
between this bountry and Mexico. It is true that the Rio
Grande, for several hundred miles above its mouth, forms the
boundary between this country and Mexico, and that the
seventh article of the treaty between the United States and
Mexico of February 2, 1848, 9 Stat. 928, stipulates that "the
River Gila and the part of the Rio Bravo del Norte lying below the southern boundary of New Mexico being, agreeably.
to the fifth article, divided in the middle between the two Republics, the navigation of the Gila and of the Bravo below
said boundary shall be free and common to the vessels and
citrizens of both countries, and neither shall, without the consent of the other, construct any work that may impede or interrupt, in whole or in part, the exercise of this right, not even
for the purpose of favoring new methods of navigation.
. . .The stipulations contained in the present article shall

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

not impair the territorial rights of either Republic within its
established limits." But by the fourth article of the Gadsden
treaty of December 30, 1853, 10 Stat. 103-, it was provided
that "the several provisions, stipulations and restrictions contained in the seventh article of the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo shall remain in force only so far as regards the Rio
Bravo del Norte, below the initial of the said boundary provided in the first article of this treaty, that is to say, below
the intersection of the 31st degree 47' 30" parallel of latitude,
with the boundary line established by the late treaty dividing
said river from its mouth upwards, according to the fifth article of the.treaty of Guadalupe." And on December 26, 1890,
a convention was concluded between the United States and
Mexico, 26 Stat. 1512, which provided for an international
boundary commission, to which was given, by article five, the
power to inquire, upon complaint of the local authorities,
whether works were being constructed in the Rio Grande
prohibited by any prior treaty stipulations. There is no suggestion in the bill that any action by these commissioners was
invoked, although it appears from one of the affidavits that
the commission has been duly constituted. iNow it is debated
by counsel whether the construction of a dam at the place
named in New Mexico, a place wholly within the territorial
jurisdiction of the United States, is a violation of any of the
treaty stipulations above referred to -they being, primarily
at least, limited to that portion of the river which forms the
boundary line between the two nations; and also whether the
fact that the Rio Grande is partially within the limits of
Mexico, would give that nation, under the rules of international law, any right to complain of the total appropriation
of its waters for legitimate uses of the people of the United
States. Such questions might under some circumstances be
interesting and important; but here the Rio Grande, so far as
it is a navigable stream, lies as much within the territory of
the United States as in that of Mexico, it being where navigable the boundary between the two nations, and the middle
of the channel being the dividing line. Now, the obligations
of the United States to preserve for their own citjzens, the

UN ITED STATES v. RIO GRANDE IRRIGATION CO. 70l
Opinion of the Court.

navigability of its navigable waters, is certainly as great as
any arising by treaty or international law to other nations or
their citizens, and if the proposed dam and appropriation of
the waters of the Rio Grande constitute a breach of treaty
obligations or of international duty to Mexico, they also constitute an equal injury and wrong to the people of the United
States.
We may, therefore, properly limit our inquiry to the effect
of the proposed darn and appropriation of waters upon the
navigability of the Rio Grande, and, in case such proposed
action tends to destroy such navigability, the extent of the
right of the Government to interfere. The intended construction. of the dam and impounding of the water are
charged in the bill and admitted in the answer. The bill
further charges that the purpose is to obtain control of the
entire flow of the river, and divert and use it for irrigation
and supplying waters for municipal and manufacturing uses;
that, by reason of the porous soil, the dry atmosphere and
consequent rapid evaporation, but little water thus taken
from the river and distributed over the surface of the earth
will ever be returned to the river, and that this appropriation
of the waters will so deplete and prevent the flow of water
through the channel of the river below the dam as to seriously obstruct the navigable capacity of the river throughout
its entire course even to its mouth. The answer, while denying an intent to appropriate all the waters of the Rio Grande,
states that the entire flow, during the irrigation season, at the
point where defendants propose to construct reservoirs, had
long since been diverted, and was owned and beneficially
used by parties other than defendants, that they did not
seek to disturb such appropriation, but that their sole intention was to appropriate only such waters as had not
already been legally appropriated, and that the beneficial
rights to be acquired in the stream by virtue of the structures
would be very largely only so acquired from the excess, storm
and flood waters now unappropriated, useless and going to
waste. In other words, the bill charges that the defendants,
at the places where they proposed to construct their dam,

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

intend thereby to appropriate all the waters of the Rio
Grande, and defendants qualify that charge only so far as
they say that most of the flow of the river is already appropriated, and they only propose to take the balance. The bill
charges that such appropriation of the entire flow will seriously
obstruct the navigability of the river from the place of the dam
to the mouth of the stream. The defendants deny this, but as
the court found that there was no equity in the bill, and dismissed the suit on that ground, we must for the purposes of
this inquiry assume that it is true, that defendants are intending to appropriate the entire unappropriated flow of the Rio
Grande at the place where they propose to construct their
dam, and that such appropriation will seriously affect the
navigability of the river where it is now navigable. The
right to do this is claimed by defendants and denied by the
Government, and that, generally speaking, is the question
presented for our consideration.
The unquestioned rule of the common law was that every
riparian owner was entitled to the continued natural flow of
the stream. It is enough, without other citations or quotations,
to quote the language of Chancellor Kent, 3 Kent Com. ยง 439:
"Every proprietor of lands on the banks of a river has
naturally an equal right to the use of the water which flows
in the stream adjacent to his lands, as it was wont to run
(ourreresolebat) without diminution or alteration. No proprietor has a right to use the water, to the prejudice of other proprietors, above or below him, unless he has a prior right to
divert it, or a title to some exclusive enjoyment. He has no
property in the water itself, but a simple usufruct while it
passes along. Aqua ourrit et debet currere ut cur'ere solebat
is the language of the law. Though he may use the water
while it runs over his land as an incident to the land, he cannot unreasonably detain it, or give it another direction, and
he must return it to its ordinary channel when it leaves his
estate."
While this is undoubted, and the rule obtains in those
States in the Union which have simply adopted the common
law, it is also true that as to every stream within its do-minion

UNITED STATES v. RIO GRANDE IRRIGATION CO. 703
Opinion of the Court.

a State may change this common law rule and permit the
appropriation of the flowing waters for such purposes as it
deems wise. Whether this power to change the common law
rule and permit any specific and separate appropriation of the
waters of a stream belongs also to the legislature of a Territory, we do not deem it necessary for the purposes of this
case to inquire. We concede arguendo that it does.
Although this power of changing the common law rule as
to streams within its dominion undoubtedly belongs to each
State, yet two limitations must be recognized: First, that in
the absence of specific authority from Congress a State cannot
by its legislation destroy the right of the United States; as the
owner of lands bordering on a stream, to the continued flow
of its waters; so far at least as may be necessary for the beneficial uses of the government property. Second, that it is
limited by the superior power of the General Government to
secure the uninterrupted navigability of all navigable streams
within the limits of the United States. In other words, the
jurisdiction of the General Government over interstate commerce and its natural highways vests in that Government the
right to take all needed measures to preserve the navigability
of the navigable water courses of the country .even against an3
state action. It is true there have been frequent decisiont
recognizing the power of the State, in the absence of Congress
sional legislation, to assume control of even navigable waterL
within its limits to the extent of creating dams, booms, bridge
and other matters which operate as obstructions to navigability
The power of the State to thus legislate for the interests of it&
own citizens is conceded, and until in some way Congresk
asserts its superior power, and the necessity of preserving the
general interests of the people of all the States, it is assumed
that state action, although involving temporarily an obstruction to the free navigability of a stream, is not subject to
challenge. A long list of cases to this effect can be found in
the reports of this court. See among others the following:
Willson v. Blaek Bird Creek Co., 2 Pet. 245; Gilman v.
Philadelphia,3 Wall. 713 ; Escanaba Co. v. Chicago, 107 U. S.
678; Willamette .lrom Bridge Co. v. Hatch, 125 U. S.1,

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

All this proceeds upon the thought that the non-action
of Congress carries with it an implied assent to the action
taken by the State.
Notwithstanding the unquestioned rule of the common law
in reference to the right of a lower riparian proprietor to insist
upon the continuous flow of the stream as it was, and although
there has been in all the Western States an adoption or recognition of the common law, it was early developed in their
history that the mining industry in certain States, the reclamation of arid lands in others, compelled a departure from the
common law rule, and justified an appropriation of flowing
waters both for mining purposes and for the reclamation of
arid lands, and there has come to be recognized in those
States, by custom and by state legislation, a different rule a rule which permits, under certain circumstances, the appropriation of the waters of a flowing stream for other than
domestic purposes. So far as those rules have only a local
significance, and affect only questions between citizens of the
State, nothing is presented which calls for any consideration
by the Federal courts. In 1866 Congress passed the Act of
July 26, 1866, c. 262, ยง 9, 14 Stat. 253; Rev. Stat. ยง 2339:
"Whenever, by priority of possession, rights to the use of
water for mining, agricultural, manufacturing or other purposes, have vested and accrued, and the same are recognized
and acknowledged by the local customs, laws and the decisions of courts, the possessors and owners of such vested rights
shall be maintained and protected in the same; and the right
of way for the construction of ditches and canals for the purposes herein specified is acknowledged and confirmed; but
whenever any person, in the construction of any ditch or
canal, injures or damages the possession of any settler on the
public domain, the party committing such injury or damage
shall be liable to the party injured for such injury or damage."
The effect of this statute was to recognize, so far as the
United States are concerned, the validity of the local customs,
laws and decisions of courts in respect to the appropriation of
water. In respect to this, in Broder v. Water Company, 101
U. S. 274, 276, it was said:

UNITED STATES v. RIO GRANTDE IRRIGATION CO. 705
Opinion of the Court.

"It is the established doctrine of this court that rights of
miners, who had taken possession of mines and worked and
developed them, and the rights of persons who had constructed
canals and ditches to be used in mining operations and for
purposes of agricultural irrigation, in the region where such
artificial use of the water was an absolute necessity, are rights
which the Government had, by its conduct, recognized and
encouraged and was bound to protect, before the passage of,
the act of 1866. We are of opinion that the section of the act
which we have quoted was rather a voluntary recognition of
a preexisting right of posseision, constituting a valid claim to
its continued use, than the establishment of a new one."
March 3, 1871, an Act, c. 107, was passed for the sale of desert
lands, which contained in its first section this proviso, 19 Stat.
377 :
"Provided, however, That the right to the use of water by
the persons so conducting the same on or to any tract of desert
land of six hundred and forty acres shall depend upon bona
,fide prior appropriation; and such right shall not exceed the
amount of water actually appropriated and necessarily used
for the purpose of irrigation and reclamation; and all surplus
water over and above such actual appropriation and use, together with the water of all lakes, rivers and other sources of
water supply upon the public lands and not navigable, shall
remain and be held free for the appropriation and use of the
public for irrigation, mining and manufacturing purposes subject to existing rights."
On March 3, 1891, an Act, c. 561, was passed repealing a,
prior act in respect to timber bulture, the eighteenth section
of which provided, 26 Stat. 1101:
"That the right of way through the -public lands and reservations of the United States is hereby granted to any canal or
ditch company formed for the purpose of irrigation and duly
organized under the laws of any State or Territory which shall
have filed, or may hereafter file, with the Secretary of the
Interior a copy of its articles of incorporation, and due proofs
of its organization under the same, to the extent of the ground
occupied by the water of the reservoir and of the canal and its
VOL. cLrxxiv-45

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

laterals, and fifty feet on each side of the marginal limits
thereof; also the right to take, from the public lands adjacent
to the line of the canal or ditch, material, earth and stone
necessary for the construction of such canal or ditch: Provided, That no such right of way shall be so located as to interfere with the proper occupation by the Government of any
such reservation, and all maps of location shall be subject to
the approval of the department of the Government having
jurisdiction of such reservation, and the privilege herein
granted shall not be construed to interfere with the control of
water for irrigation and other purposes under authority of the
respective States or Territories:'
Obviously by these acts, so far as they extended, Congress
recognized and assented to the appropriation of water in contravention of the common law rule as to continuous flow.
To infer therefrom that Congress intended to release its control over the navigable streams of the country and to grant
in aid of mining industries and the reclamation of arid lands
the right to appropriate the waters on the sources of navigable streams to such an extent as to destroy their navigability, is to carry those statutes beyond what their fair
import permits. This legislation must be interpreted in the
light of existing facts-that all through this mining region
in the West were streams, not navigable, whose waters could
safely be appropriated for mining and agricultural industries,
withut .serious interference with the navigability of the
rivers into which those waters flow. And in reference to all
these cases of purely local interest the obvious purpose of
Congress was to give its assent, so far as the public lands
were concerned, to any system, although in contravention to
the common law rule, which permitted the appropriation of
those waters for legitimate industries. To hold that Congress, by these acts, meant to confer upon any State the right
to appropriate all the waters of the tributary streams which
unite into a navigable watercourse, and so destroy the navigability of that watercourse in derogation of the interests of
all the people of the United States, is a construction which
cannot be tolerated. It ignores the spirit of the legislation

UNITED STATES v. R O GRAIDE IRRIGATIOIN CO. 107
Opinion of the Court.

and carries'the statute to the verge of the letter and far
beyond what under the circumstances of the case must be
held to have been the intent of Congress.
Bat whatever may be said as to the true intent and scope
of these various statutes, we have before us the legislation of
1890. On September 19, 1890, an. Act, c. 907, was passed
containing this provision, 26 Stat. 454, ยง 10:
"That the creation of any obstruction, not affirmatively
authorized by law, to the navigable capacity of any waters,
in respect of which the United States has jurisdiction, is
hereby prohibited. The continuance of any such obstruction,
except bridges, piers, docks and wharves, and similar structures erected for business purposes, whether heretofore or
hereafter created, shall constitute an offence, and each week's
continuance of any such, obstruction shall be deemed a separate offence. Every person and every corporation which shall
be guilty of creating or continuing any such unlawful obstruction in this act mentioned, or who shall violate the provisions of th6'last four preceding sections of this act, shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and on conviction thereof
shall be punished by a fine not exceeding five thousand dollars, or by imprisonment (in the case of a natural person) not
exceeding one year, or by both such punishments, in the
discretion of the court; the creating or continuing of any
unlawful obstruction in this act mentioned may be prevented,
and such obstruction may be caused to be removed by the
injunction of any Circuit Court exercising jurisdiction in any
district in which such obstruction may be threatened or may
exist; and proper proceedings *in equity to this end may be
instituted under the direction of the Attorney General of the
United States."
As this is a later declaration of Congress, so far as it modifies any privileges or rights conferred by prior statutes it
must be held controlling, at least as to any rights attempted
to be created since its passage; and all the proceedings of
the appellees in this case were subsequent to this act. This
.act declares that "the creation of any obstruction, not affirmatively authorized by law to the navigable capacity of any

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Opinion of the Court.

waters in respect to which the United States has jurisdiction,
is hereby prohibited." Whatever may be said in reference to
obstructions existing at the time of the passage of the act,
under the authority of state statutes, it is obvious that Congress meant that thereafter no State should interfere with the
navigability of a stream without the condition of national
assent. It did not, of course, disturb any of the provisions
of prior statutes in respect to the mere appropriation of water
of non-navigable streams in disregard of the old common law
rule of continuous flow, and its only purpose, as is obvious,
was to affirm that as to navigable waters nothing should be
done to obstruct their navigability without the assent of the
National Government. It was an exercise by Congress of the
power, oftentimes declared by this court to belong to it, of
national control over navigable streams; and various sections
in this statute, as well as in the act of July 13, 1892, c. 158,
27 Stat. 88, 110, provide for the mode of asserting that control. It is urged that the true construction of this act limits
its applicability to obstructions in the navigable portion of a
navigable stream, and that as it appears that although the Rio
Grande may be navigable for a certain distance above its
mouth, it is not navigable in the Territory of New Mexico,
this statute has no applicability. The language is general,
and must be given full scope. It is not a prohibition of any
obstruction to the navigation, but any obstruction to the navigable capacity, and anything, wherever done or however
done, within the limits of the jurisdiction of the United
States which tends to destroy the navigable capacity of one
of the navigable waters of the United States, is within the
terms of the prohibition. Evidently Congress, perceiving that
the time had coihe when the growing interests of commerce
required that the navigable waters of the United States should
be subjected to the direct control of the National Government,
and that nothing should be done by any State tending to destroy that navigabllty without the explicit assent of the National Government, enacted the statute in question. And it
would be to improperly ignore the scope of this language to
limit it to the acts done within the very limits of navigation
of a navigable stream.

UNITED STATES v. RIO GRANDE IRRIGATION CO.

109

Opinion of the Court.

The creation of anly such obstruction may be enjoined,
according to the last provision of the section, by proper
proceedings ih equity under the direction of the Attorney
General of the United States, and it was in pursuance of
this clause that these proceedings were commenced. Of
course, when such proceedings are instituted it becomes a
question of fact whether the act sought to be enjoined is
oae which fairly and directly tends to obstruct (that is, interfere with or diminish) the navigable capacity of a stream.
It does not follow that the courts would be justified in sustaining any proceeding by the Attorney General to restrain
any appropriation of the upper waters of a navigable stream.
The question always is one of fact, whether such appropriation substantially interferes with the navigable capacity
within the limits where navigation is a recognized fact. In
the course of the argument this suggestion was made, and it
seems to us not unworthy of note, as illustrating this thought.
The Hudson River runs within the limits of the State of New
York. It is a navigable stream and a part of the navigable
waters of the United States, so far at least as from Albany
southward. One of the streams which flows into it and contributes to the volume of its waters is the Croton River, a,
non-navigable stream. Its waters are taken by the State of
New York for domestic uses in the city of New York. Unquestionably the State of New York has a right to appropriate its waters, and the United States may not question such
appropriation, unless thereby the navigability of the Hudson
be disturbed. On the other hand, if the State of New York
should, even at a place above the limits of navigability, by
appropriation for any domestic purposes, diminish the volume
of waters, which, flowing into the Hudson, make it a navigable stream, to such an extent as to destroy its navigability,
undoubtedly the jurisdiction of the National Government
would arise and its power to restrain such appropriation be
unquestioned; and within the purview of this section it would
become the right of the Attorney General to institute proceedings to restrain such appropriation.
Without pursuing this inquiry further we are of the opinion

OCTOBER TERM, 1898.
Statement of the Case.

that there was error in the conclusions of the lower courts;
that the decree must be
Reversed and the case remandedwith instructionsto set aside
the decree of dismissal, and to order an inquiry into the
question whether the intended acts of the defendants in the
construction of a dam and in appropriatingthe waters of
the Rio Grande will substantially diminish the vavigability of that stream within the limits of j2resen2t navigability, and if so, to enter a decree restrainingthose acts to
the extent that they will so diminish.
MR. JUSTicE GRAY and MR. JUsTIcE MoKENNA were not
present at the argument, and took no part in the decision.

CHICAGO, ROCK ISLAND AND PACIFIC RAILWAY
COMPANY v. STURM.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF KANSAS.
No. 236. Submitted April 5, 1899.-Decided May 22, 1899.
Sturm sued the railway company in a justices' court in Kansas for wages
due, and recovered for the full amount claimed. The company appealed
to the county district court. When the case was called there for trial,
the company moved for a continuance on the ground that a creditor of
Sturm had sued him in a court in Iowa, of which State the railway company was also a corporation, and had garnisheed the company there for
the wages sought to be recovered in this suit, and had recovered a judgment there from which an appeal had been taken which was still pending.
The motion for continuance was denied, the case proceeded to trial, and
judgment was rendered for Sturm for the amount sued for, with costs.
A new trial was moved for, on the ground, among others, that the decision was contrary to and in conflict with section 1, article IV, of the Constitution of the United States. The motion was denied, and the judgment
was sustained by the Court of Appeals and by the Supreme Court of the
State. The case was then brought here. Held, that the Iowa court had
jurisdiction, and that the Kansas courts did not give to the proceedings
in Iowa the faith and credit they had in Iowa, and were consequently
entitled to in Kansas, and the judgment must be reversed.

THE defendant in error brought an action against the plain-

