CASES ADJUDGED
IN THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
AT

OCTOBER TERM, 1975

UNITED STATES v. MAINE

ET AL.

ON JOINT MOTION FOR ENTRY OF A DECREE

No. 35, Orig. Decided March 17, 1975Decree entered October 6, 1975
Joint motion for the entry of a decree is granted, and a decree
is entered.
Opinion reported: 420 U. S. 515

DECREE
The joint motion for entry of a decree is granted.
For the purpose of giving effect to the decision and
opinion of this Court announced in this case on March
17, 1975, 420 U. S. 515, it is ORDERED, ADJUDGED, AND
DECREED AS FOLLOWS:

1. As against the defendant States of Maine, New
Hampshire, Massachusetts, Rhode Island, New York,
New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, South Carolina, .and Georgia, the United States is
entitled to all the lands, minerals, and other natural resources underlying the Atlantic Ocean more than three
geographic miles seaward from the coastlines of those
States and extending seaward to the edge of the Continental Shelf. None of the defendant States is entitled to

OCTOBER TERM, 1975
Decree

423 U. S.

any interest in such lands, minerals, and resources. As
used in this decree, the term "coastline" means the line of
ordinary low water along that portion of the coast which
is in direct contact with the open sea and the line marking the seaward limit of inland waters.
2. As against the United States, each defendant State
is entitled to all the lands, minerals, and other natural resources underlying the Atlantic Ocean extending seaward
from its coastline for a distance of three geographic miles,
and the United States is not entitled, as against any of
the defendant States, to any interest in such lands, minerals, or resources, with the exceptions provided by ยง 5
of the Submerged Lands Act of 1953, 67 Stat. 32, 43
U. S. C. ยง 1313.
3. Jurisdiction is reserved by this Court to entertain
such further proceedings, including proceedings to determine the coastline of any defendant State, to enter such
orders, and to issue such writs as may from time to time
be deemed necessary or advisable to give proper force
and effect to this decree. The United States or any
defendant State may invoke the jurisdiction so reserved
by filing a motion in this Court for supplemental
proceedings.

