Dec. 1872.]

KIMBALL V. WEST.

Statement of the case.

holder; and if the allegations are true, and constitute a defence, the defence at law to the suit brought by him is perfect and complete.
A judgment against Winegar in the suit brought by him
would be as conclusive upon the invalidity of the bonds,
would as effectually prevent all future vexatious litigation,
would expose the fraud, and prevent future deception as perfectly and thoroughly as would a judgment in the equity
suit. Under such circumstances, there is no authority for
bringing this suit in equity.
We are so well satisfied that the bill cannot be sustained
for the reason stated, that we do npt discuss the further
question, whether a bill of this character can be sustained,
where two of the defendants in the suit are residents of the
same State with the plaintiff.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

KIMBALL V. WEST.
1. *When a contract for sale of lands is fully executed by a conveyance with
a covenant of warranty, and the payment of the purchase-money, the
remedy for a defect of title is by an action on the covenant.
2. A party declining to pursue that remedy, and applying to a court of
equity to rescind the entire contract, must show very clearly that such
a rescission is necessary to the ends of justice.
3. If, therefore, on or before the final hearing, the vendor makes and tenders a perfect title, no rescission will be decreed unless the vendee has
suffered great loss or injury by the delay, and not then if such loss or
injury can be fairly compensated by damages.
APPEAL

from the Circuit Court for the District of Mis-

souri.

Kimball and Trask brought their bill in chancery against
'West, to rescind a contract for the sale of land of which
they were purchasers from him. The contract was an executed one, West having conveyed the land-about four hundred acres in quantity-to the complainants' agent, who had

]IMBALL V.

WEST.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in favor of rescission. ,

conveyed to them, and the purchase-money ($22,000) having
been paid. The deed of West, the defendant, contained a
clause of general warranty.
The allegation mainly relied on by the bill to set aside the
contract was that the defendant represented to the agent of
the complainants, that the title to the land was good; that
there was no incumbrance on it, nor adverse claim to it; when
in truth and in fact an action of ejectment was then pending
for one hundred and eighty-four acres of it against the defendant, in which judgment was afterwards rendered against
him; that the laud so recovered in the suit against the defendant was the most valuable part of the tract, and without
which the complainants would not have made the purchase;
and that the defendant fraudulently concealed the existence
of this suit, and represented the title to the whole to be perfect. On the question of concealment and fraudulent representation testimony was taken on both sides, which did not
leave the matter free from doubt. This part of the matter,
however, was unimportant in the view which this court took
of the case.
It appeared from the record that before the cause in the
court below came to a final hearing, the defendant purchased
the outstanding and conflicting title to the one hundred and
eighty-four acres, and tendered to the complainants such
conveyances as made their title perfect. The court, therefore, dismissed the, bill, but decided that the defendant
should pay the costs of the suit.
From this decree of dismissal the complainants appealed.
Mr'. B. T. Merrick, for the appellants:
There was confessedly misrepresentation by the vendor as
to five-twelfths of the whole tract. On the ground of mere
defect in quantity the purchasers have a right to be relieved
of their purchase; or rather their no purchase. Can the
vendor by coming in now, at the twelfth hour, and offering
a good title, destroy this right? The purchasers may have
bought for a special purpose. Presumably they did so.
Suppose they bought for immediate resale on a high but

Dec. 1872.]

]KIMBALL V. WEST.
Opinion of the court.

falling market, obviously they are not. made whole by the
tender of a good title now. Their opportunity of sale is
gone, and their lost time and pains is their profit. An entire rescission of the contract should have been decreed, or
at least compensation for the portion included in the ejectment suit.
3r. J. 0. .Broadhead,contra.
Mr. Justice MIILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
We are of opinion that the decree of the court below was
clearly right. The plaintifi had paid their money and accepted of the defendant his deed with a clause warranting
the title. For any defect in that title the law gave them a
remedy by an action on the covenant. But when, declining
to pursue that remedy, they apply to a court of equity to
rescind the whole contract, thereby compelling the defendant
to repay the sum of $22,000, and receive back the title
which he had conveyed to the plaintiffs, the necessity of such
a decree to obtain the ends of justice must be very clear before it will be given. When, therefore, it appears that at
the time of the hearing the defendant is able to remedy the
supposed defect in his title, and in pointof fact secures and
makes good to the complainants, at his own cost, all that he
conveyed to them originally, the complainants must show
some loss, injury, or damage by the delay in perfecting the
title before they can claim a rescission of the contract. And
even if this could be shown, which is not attempted in this
case, the court, as a general rule, would not be authorized
to decree a rescission, if compensation could be made for the
injury arising from the delay in making good the original
defect in the title.*
DECREE AFFIRMED.

Hepburn & Dundas v. Dunlop & Co., I W heaton, 179; Buchannon v.
Upshaw, 1 Howard, 56; Galloway v. Finley, 12 Peters, 264.

