682

BURROWS v. THE MARSHAL.

[Sup. ot.

Statement of the case.

BURROWS v. THE MARSHAL.
No appeallies to this court from the Circuit Court for the discharge of a rule
on the marshal, to show cause why he should not make to one-asserting himself to be a purchaser on execution, under a judgment, at a
marshal's sale-a deed for real estate sold; and for an order on the person asking the rule to pay the costs.

ON motion to dismiss an appeal from the Circuit Court
for the District of North Carolina.
The 22d section of the Judiciary Act of 1789,* after enacting that certain final decrees in District Courts may be
re-examined, and reversed or affirmed, in Circuit Courts,
"upon writ of error," enacts further:

"And upon like process may final judgments and decrees in
civil actions and suits in equity in a Circuit Court, brought
there by original process, &c., be re-examined, reversed or affirmed, in the Supreme Court, &c."
An amendment to this act, passed in 1803,t enacts:
"That from all final judgments or decrees rendered or to be
rendered in any Circuit Court in any cases of equity, admiralty,
and maritime jurisdiction,and of prize or no prize, an appeal . . .
shall be allowed to the Supreme Court of the United States."
With these acts in force, an execution duly issued from the
Circuit Court for the District of North Carolina on a judgment against one Taylor, and under it real estate owned by
him was sold by the marshal, and the money paid into the
marshal's office. Notwithstanding this the marshal advertised the same land for sale under other executions. Hereupon one Burrows, alleging that he had purchased and paid
for the land, and had tendered the marshal a proper draft of
a deed to him, obtained a rule on the marshal to show cause
why he should not make such a deed, and why another sale
under the other executions should not be stayed.
1 Stat. at Large, 84.

t" 2 Id. 244.

Dec. 1872.]

BURROWS v. THE

MARSHAL.

Opinion of the court.

The marshal set up by way of answer that Burrows was
not the purchaser, but that one Meacham was; that the
land had sold at an enormous sacrifice, the result of a fraudulent combination between Burrows, Meacham, and Taylor,
to prevent competition in the bidding.
The court below having heard the case on its merits dismissed Burrows's petition, and ordered him to pay all the
costs. From this, its action, he brought the case -to this
court by an appeal.
Mr. S. F. Phillips, Solicitor-General, in support of the motion,
argued, that if the discharge of the rule below was in any
true sense a "final judgment or decree," and such a judgment or decree as was within the supervisory jurisdiction of
this court at all, it could only b'e so on writ of error. The
proceeding in which Burrows made his motion below was
at law, and the motion was a motion at law. Under the
act of 1803, indeed, appeals were allowed in a special class
of cases, but this case did not fall within that class.
l1tessrs. T. A. Graham and H. W. Guion, contra.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Two .judgments, as the appellant represents, were rendered in the Circuit Court, at Raleigh, November Term,
1869, against one Taylor, in favor of the creditors therein
named, for certain specified amounts, and that the same
were placed in the hands of a deputy marshal for collection;
that the marshal having levied the executions upon a certain
described parcel of land, advertised the *same for sale according to law, and that the petitioner became the purchaser
thereof, being the highest bidder at the sale, for the sum of
one hundred and ten dollars, which, as he alleges, he paid
to the deputy marshal; that at the ensuing term of the court
he applied to the marshal to execute to him as the purchaser
a deed of the interest so purchased and paid- for as aforesaid; that the marshal having refused to comply with the
request, he then prepared and tendered to the marshal a

HAMILTON V. ROUSE.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

proper draft for a deed, and requested him to execute the
same, which he refused and still refuses to do, and has given
notice that he will sell the premises upon other executions
in his hands. Wherefore the petitioner prayed the Circuit
Court to lay a rule upon the appellee, as such marshal, to
show cause at the next term of the court why he should not
make to him as the purchaser a good and sufficient deed in
fee simple of the described tract, and he also prayed for an
order staying all further proceedings under the said other
executions in his hands towards a resale of the premises
which he purchased.
Subsequently the appellee appeared and filed an answer,
and the record shows that the court, at the succeeding November Term, rendered judgment for the appellee, directing
that the rule be discharged and that the petitioner pay all
costs. Whereupon the petitioner appealed to this court.
Such a motion as the one first described and the rule
granted under it were proceedings at law, and so also were
the judgment and the order of the court directing that the
petitioner should pay all costs, and the court is of the opinion
that the judgment could not be removed into this court in
any other way than by a writ of error; that an appeal will
not lie to this court in such a case under the twenty-second
section of the Judiciary Act, and that the appeal must be
DISmISSED FOR WANT OF JURISDICTION.

HAMPTON V. ROUSE.
Where a writ of error was made returnable to the first Mfonday of December (a return day then, within a month, abolished by act of Congress),
instead of being made returnable the second Monday of Qctober, next
ensuing, the day which the act fixed thenceforth as the return day, held
that the mistake was amendable under the third section of the act of
June Ist, 1872, "to further the administration of justice," which empowers the court to allow amendments in certain cases, including the

