Dec. 1872.]

OELRICHS V.

SPAIN.

Statement of the case.

OELRICHS V. SPAIN.
1. In the jurisprudence of the United States, the objection that there is an
adequate remedy at law raises a jurisdictional question, and may be enforced by the court sua sponte, though not raised by the pleadings, nor
suggested by counsel.
2. The equity jurisdiction will be sustained when time, expense, and multiplicity of suits will be saved, as also when the case contains an element
of trust.
3. Securities to an injunction bond cannot go behind the decree to raise a
question of illegality as to an agreement on which it is founded.
4. A release not under seal is not a technical bar, even in a suit at law. But
even when sealed it cannot be set up in equity to defeat those who were
not parties to it, and who had separate interests.
5. An injupetion bond, given to one who held the legal title to a fund, will
enable him at law to recover to the full extent damages touching the
entire fund; and a court of equity will follow the law in its proper distribution.
6. Counsel fees are not recoverable on such bonds.
APPEAL from the Supreme Court for the District of Columbia, a court (as is said, ifra,p. 219) of general jurisdiction,
the case being thus:
On the 9th of November, 1842, the Bank of the United
States was the owner of $500,000 of the bonds of the then
independent Republic of Texas, a government, at that time,
of bad pecuniary credit. Owing IV. S. Wetmore $50,000.
the bank assigned these bonds, with arrears of interest on
them, to him as a security for the debt. In July, 1845, the
Republic became one of the United States, under the name
of the State of Texas, and immediately certain holders of its
bonds became urgent that Congress should assume the payment of them, principal and interest. Among these holders
was General James Hamilton, a person of some political influence in his day, and who bad been instrumental in procuring the admission of Texas into the Union. As the Bank
of the United States would gain largely if the United States
did so assume the debt, Hamilton applied to its trusteesthe bank having itself failed, and assigned its effects-urging
them to employ him to have it done; and the trustees, in
October, 1845, agreed with him that if he would devote his

OELRICHS V. SPAIM.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

"best efforts, time, and means to the great object of securing the recognition and payment of these claims," and if his
efforts should be successful, they would allow him a commission of ten per cent. for the service so rendered. This
agreement was limited, by its terms, to two years. However, Hamilton having labored successfully, this provision as
to time was not insisted on. 'The trustees communicated
the agreement fully to Wetmore, September 16th, 1850,
without mentioning the original limitation, and directing
him to "hold subject to the order of Hamilton, one-tenth of
any sum over and above his claim against the said bonds."
Wetmore acknowledged the receipt of this order, and promised to hold the bonds accordingly.
Through his, Hamilton's, efforts, largely, Congress, by an
act of 9th September, 1850, did assume the payment of this
debt, and authorized a five per cent. stock of the United
States to be issued in lieu of the bonds of Texas; the act
requiring, however, that before the stock of the United
States should be issued, the holders of the Texas bonds
should "first file at the Treasury of the United States, releases of all claims against the United States for said bonds."
The amount finally paid, June 3d, 1856, in behalf of the claim
.
held by Wetmore, was
Wetmore having paid himself his own debt, paid the residue of
the nine-tenths to the trustees of the bank. This left in his
hands, as trustee for Hamilton, the remaining one-tenth, or
A considerable time before this money was payable by the United
States, Hamilton, who had long been pecuniarily embarrassed, directed Wetmore, by written orders, which Wetmore accepted, to pay out of it, when received,
$2,500
To Wetmore, himself,
.
25,000
To Corcoran & Riggs,
83,500
To one Hill,
with interest from certain dates; so much being due by him,
Hamilton, for money borrowed of these persons respectively.
It seemed to be admitted by all, as unquestionable, that the
trustees of the Bank of the United States were, in virtue of
some agreement of an admitted priority, entitled to receive
of this ..
The sum of.
Leaving as Hamilton's true one-tenth,

817,720 88

81,772 08

81,772 08
12,051 50
$69,720 58

Dec.1872.]

OELRICHS V.

SPAIN.

Statement of the case.

In this state of things-and when if Wetmore bad been
allowed to distribute the one-tenth of Hamilton, or his onetenth less the bank's last-named deduction, it would have
paid Hill, as well as Wetmore and Corcoran & Riggs, all
in full-one Spain filed a bill against Wetmore, Corcoran,
& Riggs, and the trustees of the bank, Hill not bing by
name made a defendant, charging that Wetmore bad the
$81,772.08 as the property of Hamilton, and that he, Spain,
had an assignment of the whole fund made by Hamilton at
an early date. The bill then alleged that Wetmore, disregarding this earlier assignment, pretended to hold the fund,
subject to certain other alleged assignments of later date; the
bill specifying that to Wetmore himself, and those to Corcoran & Riggs, Hill,and the trustees of the bank-and alleging that Wetmore meant to apply the fund to the payment
of these last "said recited claims," and that the secretary was
about to pay to Wetmore the said sum of $81,772.08. Asserting thus a superior equity, the bill then prayed: " That
the said Wetmore, his assignees, aiders, and abeltors, may be enjoined a-d restrainedfrom receiving the sum of $81,772, being the
one-tenth of the three certificates," &e. Subpcenas were prayed
against all these parties, and that the representative of Bfill
(Hill himself being now dead), should be made defendant when
discovered. An injunction was granted "as prayed for." A
bond, in the penalty of $15,000, signed by a certain J. F.
May and Henry May, in favor of Wetmore, Corcoran &
Riggs, and the trustees of the bank, but not by name in
favor of Hill, was filed. The writ of injunction was issued
on the 31st of .Nay, 1856, directed to Wetmore, Hamilton,
Corcoran & Riggs, and the trustees of the bank. It recited
the filing of the bill and its object. The restraining clause
was in these words:
"You, the said W. S. Wetmore, your assignees, aiders, and
abettors, are hereby restrained and enjoined from asking fbr or
receiving the sum of $81,772.08, being the one-tenth part of
the bonds or certificates," &c.
This writ was served on Wetmore, and Corcoran & Riggs.
From that time, until the dissolution of the injunction, here-

OELRICHS V. SPAIN.

[Slip. Ct.

Statement of the case.

inafter mentioned,
the United States.
coran & Riggs, the
sentative of Hill.
On motion of the
dered:

the money laid idle in the Treasury of
Answers were filed by Wetmore, Cortrustees of the bank, and by the repredefendants, it was subsequently thus or-

"It appearing to the satisfaction of the court that there is not
sufficient security to indemnify the defendants for their costs and
damages, &c.; it is ordered that the complainant file a bond in
the penalty of $20,000, conditioned to pay the defendants such
costs and damages as they may respectively sustain."
Prior to this the complainant had released his injunction
as to the sum of $12,051, improperly enjoined, and this had
been paid by Wetmore to the bank, and a release of the injunction bond executed by the trustees of the bank. The form of
that release did not appear in the record.
The second bond, ordered as above-mentioned to be filed,
was filed, executed by Spain and Oelrichs. This, by consent of the parties, was ordered to stand in lieu of the bond
previously filed, reserving the right of the obligees to have
recourse to the original bond for interest theretofore accrued.
The obligees named in this bond were Wetmore, and Corcoran & Riggs, but not Hill by name. The bond recited the
injunction issued by the court to restrain the collection of
the money mentioned in the writ; it recited also that certain
portions of the money so enjoined had been released and
paid over. The condition was:
"That if the said Spain, &c., shall prosecute the writ of injunction to effect, and pay as well the costs, damages, and charges
that shall occur in said Circuit Court in Washington County, as all
costs, damages, and charges that shall be occasioned by said writ of
injunction, and shall in all things obey such order and decree as
the said court shall make in the premises, then the obligation
to be void and of no effect, otherwise to remain in full force and
effect."
The cause being heard it was decreed, on the 19th February, 1861, 4 years 8 months and 16 days after the injunction had issued-

Dec. 1872.]

OELRICHS V.

SPAIN.

Statement of the case.

1. That the legal title to the fund was from the 9th November, 1849, and still is in Wetmore.
2. That from the 16th September, 1850, when the trustees
of the bank notified to him their arrangement with Hamilton, and he accepted it, Wetmore held the legal title of the
one-tenth as trustee of the fund.
First,to pay himself, with interest, the loan of .
Second, to pay Corcoran & Riggs,
Third, to pay Hill, with interest from 9th March, 1852,

$2,500
30,000
33,500

From this decree Spain alone appealed. At the December
Term, 1863, this court affirmed the decree with costs.*
Pending the appeal, there being no supersedeas and the
decree having dissolved the injunction, the treasury paid to
Wetmore, on 20th March, 1861, the sum remaining due on
the one-tenth, $69,720.60.
There had been previously paid to the bank, the sum improperly enjoined, to wit: 80th March, 1859, the pro rata on
$12,051.48.
The sum they paid to Wetmore was in three drafts, intended to represent the interests of the parties as settled by
the decree, to wit:
For 'Wetmore,
" Corcoran,
" Hill,

$4,333 89
30,000 69
35,386 00
$69,720 58

Wetmore and Corcoran & Riggs were paid in full; but on
Hill's debt, as found by the decree, $52,457, there still remained unpaid $17,071.
Soon after the injunction was issued in this case, two
others were issued on bills filed in the same court: one by
the James River and Kanawha Company, and on& by Pierce
Butler. In the former an injunction bond was executed in
the penalty of $5000, signed by Caperton and others; in the
latter, one signed by Butler and others in the penalty of

$2500.
* Spain v. Hamilton's Administrator, 1 Wallace, 604.

OELRICHS V.

SPAIN.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

Butler's bill was heard with that of Spain, and subsequent
to the decree in that case the James River and Kanawha
Company dismissed their bill.
In both of these cases, the bonds expressly included among.
the obligees Hill's executor, as well as Wetmore and Corcoran & Riggs; while in the two bonds filed in Spain's case,
as already said, neither Hill nor his executor was expressly
named as obligee.
In this state of things the only child, heir, and legatee of
Hill filed a bill to assert his father's claim for damages occasioned by these several injunction bonds. To aid in this,
the representatives of Wetmore, as also the executor of Hill,
were joined as complainants. The securities in the two bonds
in the Spain case, May and Oelrichs, and the security in the
bond in the James River Company's case, Caperton, were
made defendants.
The bill was also filed against Corcoran & Riggs to seek a
discovery from them as to whether any settlement had been
made with them of the bond in the James River case.
It was also filed to marshal assets, and to assert the right
of Hill to the whole of this latter bond, and compel Corcoran & Riggs to resort for payment to the other bonds, they
being named as obligees in all, while Hill was named only
in one-provided it should be decreed that the omission to
name Hill specifically as obligee in the Spain bonds, prevented his looking to them for redress; a matter which was
not conceded.
The bill also stated that Corcoran & Riggs has made some
settlement of the $5000 bond, and prayed a discovery.
As to thd bond for $2500 given by Butler, the complainant
stated its(payment by his representatives; and as to these
representatives, the representatives of Henry May, one of
Spain's securities, Spain himself, Ellis and Ould, parties to
the James River bond, all non-residents and beyond the
jurisdiction-the bill prayed that process might issue against
them if. they should come within the jurisdiction.
On this bill, answers, and proofs, the cause was tried and

Dec. 1872.]

OELRICHS V. SPAIN.
Argument for the appellants.

decrees rendered asserting Hill's right to resort to the Spain
bonds for redress of damages, and referring Corcoran & Riggs
to the bonds on which they were named and Hill was not;
and also allowing both Hill and them to recover counsel fees
paid in attending to the inj unction. The items thus appeared:
Corcoran & Riggs for damages, interest on the amount of their
lien during the term payment was delayed by the injunction,
a term of 4 years, 8 months, and 16 days,
Their counsel fees in the adverse litigation,

$8,475 00
1,000 00
$9,475 00

Deduct the amount they received upon the bond given in behalf
.
of the James River and Kanawha Company,
Balance, ...

5,000 00
$4,475 00

Of this sum, $2455.94 was charged on May's bond, and
$2019.06 on Oelrichs's.
To Hill's estate for loss of principal by reason of the fact that
part of the fund which would otherwise have been applied
to it in part payment was absorbed for the interest due the
prior claims,.
Interest on $36,214.35 for 4 years, 8 months, and 16 days,
Counsel fees in the adverse litigation,
Deduct the amount received on the Butler bond,
Balance, ...

$827 41
10,230 55
1,500 00
$12,557 96
2,500 00
$10,057 96

Of this sum there was charged to May's bond $5027.15,
and to Oelrichs's, $5030.81.
May and Oelrichs now appealed, and the case was before
this court for fiual adjudication.
Messrs. T. T. Grittenden and T. J. Durant,for the appellants:
1. The court is without jurisdiction of the action, since
"a plain, adequate, and complete remedy could have been
had at law," as well under the well-known 16th section of
the Judiciary Act, as on settled rule independent of it. And
the reason is plain. A suit on a bond against principals and
sureties is, in its nature, a suit at the common law.
.2. But if the court below bad jurisdiction, the decree

218

OELRICHS v. SPAIT.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the appellants.

rendered is erroneous. The decree is, in part, in favor of
Hill's estate, but his administrator is not named in the bill as
a defendant, nor in the order of injunction, nor in the writ
of injunction, nor in the injunction bonds, and no injunction
was asked against Hill's estate. In no way, under these
facts, can the sureties on the injunction bonds be made
liable to Hill's estate.
3. By the non-performance of his undertaking within the
two years Hamilton was not entitled to receive or claim onetenth part, or any portion of the fund; nor were Wetmore,
or Corcoran & Riggs, or the representatives of Hill.
Further, tl~e employment of Hamilton by the trustees of
the bank, for a contingent compensation, was for the purpose
of obtaining legislation to procure the payment of the claim
of the trustees, and in doing so, to use persona and secret influence on legislators. For this reason, as well as by reason of
champerty appearing on the face of the agreement, neither
Hamilton nor his assignees could have maintained any action
or title, or acquired any interest under or by virtue of the
agreement.* The injunction bond, therefore, did not injure
them.
4. The trustees of the Bank of the United States were
joint obligees with Wetmore, Corcoran & Riggs. They
released these injunction bonds, with consent of all parties.
This, in law, releases the bond in tote, as the action, if maintained at all, must be in names of all the obligees in bond.
5. The act of Congress shows that Hill's administrator
having omitted to file his release as required by law, neither
he nor Wetmore could legally claim his share of the money
during the pendency of Spain's bill, and iufact he obtained
his money in 1861 by a blunder of the accounting* officers,
and wrongfully. There was nothing in the injunction, even
if it had named him, to prevent his filing his release so as
to be qualified to claim the money when the injunction was
dissolved. His not filing it even then shows he was not
prevented by the injunction.
' Tool Company v. Norris, 3 Wallace, 45.

Dec. 1872.]

OELRICHS V.

SPAIN.

Argument for the appellees.

6. The counsel fees were wrongly allowed. Such an allowance tends to lower the standard of professional honor,
and has by the best courts been discouraged.*
Messrs. P. Phillips, J. X. Carlisle, and J. 1D. McPherson,
contra:
I. As to jurisdiction. To oust the jurisdiction of equity,
the remedy at law must be as "practical and as efficient to
the ends of justice and its prompt administration, as the
remedy in equity."t Now, here, it was surely the interest
of the parties to the several bonds, to be brought together
in one suit, where their relative rights could be determined,
and thus save the necessity of another suit for contribution
and apportionment.
On a promise under seal, a suit at law must be in the name
of the party to the instrument. A third party, for whose
benefit it was made, cannot maintain the action. It was,
therefore, the undoubted right of Hill, as cestui que trust, to
assert in a court of equity his equitable title in the bonds
filed in Spain's case, without reference to the legal title in
the trustee which might be enforced at law.
The Court of Chancery in the District of Columbia, where
the bill below was filed, is a court of general jurisdictionJ
and as to such a court nothing is intended to be out of its
jurisdiction which is not shown to be so. It is requisite
that the plea must not only show that equity has no jurisdiction, but what court has, and whether it is able to afford
a complete remedy.
If Hill cannot recover on Spain's bonds, because not expressly named, then, as Corcoran & Riggs are named in all
the bonds, and Hill only in one, equity will compel the former persons to indemnify themselves out of the bonds in
which Hill is not named; and if they have already collected
* Day v. Woodworth, 13 Howard, 370; The Baltimore, 8 Wallace, 378;
Stimpson v. The Railroads, 1 Wallace, Jr., 164; Gadsden v. Bank of Georgetown, 5 Richardson, 342.
t Boyce v. Grundy, 3 Peters, 215; Wylie v. Coxe, 15 Howard, 420.
$ See Phillips's Practice, 283.

OELRICHS V). SPAIN.

[Sup. Or.

Argument for the appellees.

the amount of the James River bond in which Hill is named,
equity will place him to this extent in their situation in reference to Spain's bonds.*
If neither Corcoran & Riggs nor Hill are entitled to recover on Spain's bonds, then, as against the same defendants,
equity will prefer Hill's right to indemnity out of the James
River bond, as they had received the full amount for which
the court bad decreed their lien, while a large amount decreed to Hill remained unpaid. Further, under any circumstances, Hill was entitled to an account against Corcoran &
Riggs, and to a decree against them for such portion of the
sum received by them from the James River bond as his
claim bore to theirs.
Now, looking to the fact that each of the defendants in
Spain's suit was entitled to make his election as to whether
he would resort to the first bond, looking also to the several
bonds and the various defendants, and to the character of
the questions which they gave rise to, and which will be obvious to any intelligent lawyer on reading the case, it cannot be maintained that, if there was a remedy at law, it was
as "practical and as efficient to the ends of justice and its
prompt administration, as the remedy in equity."
Our position also is, that the bonds executed in favor
of Wetmore, cover not only that portion of the fund in which
he had a personal interest, but also the other portion which
he held in trust for Corcoran & Riggs and Hill, that the bond
was in fact a security attached to the fand enjoined, and was
made to him as trustee for these parties. It is true that no subpxena was served on Hill, but the bill prayed that his representative, when discovered, should be made a party. On
the face of the bill, Hill's interest is specifically stated. He
was a necessary party to the suit. Before, as well as after
filing his answer, he was bound to obey the injunction,
though not served with process; and if he disobeyed, was
liable to attachment. The bond, when filed, was for the
* Alston v. Munford, 1 Brockenbrough, 279; Cornish v. Willson, 6 Gill,
299; Cheesebrough v. Millard, 1 Johnson's Chancery, 412.

Dec. 1872..]

OELRICHS V.

SPAIN.

Argument for the appellees.

benefit of all the" defendants enjoined, whether served or
not.*
That these bonds were not intended as indemnity, merely
for the personal claim of $2500, which Wetmore held, is
manifest, because
1st. Spain describes the fund he wishes to enjoin, as
amounting to the large sum of $81,000. At the same
time he sets forth particularly the fact that Wetmore only
claimed for himself the sum of $2500, and that the large
remainder Wetmore professed to hold for Corcoran &Riggs
and Hill. IBut he enjoins the whole sum.
2d. Having thus stated that much the larger portion of
the fund belonged to other parties than Wetmore, the
court could never have consented to enjoin the whole fund
6n a bond securing only the party who had the smallest
interest therein.
3d. The order for the bond requires the bond to be "conditioned to pay the defendants such costs and damages as
they may respectively sustain by reason of the injunction."
4th. When, therefore, the court approved the bond, and
by consent of the defendants substituted it for the first, the
court, as well as the defendants, must have understood it
to be such a bond as the order directed to be given.
The prayer is for an injunction against Wetmore, "his
assignees, aiders, and abettors," restraining them from asking
for or receiving the sum of $81,000, and the writ which was
issued on this prayer is to the same effect.
In another portion of the bill, the prayer is, "that the said
Wetmore, and all and each of the said named defendants, their
assignees, aiders, and abettors, may be eidoined," &c.
Now, construing the bonds in reference to this prayer, Hill
is directly included; for Hamilton is one of the "said named
defendants," and Hill is his "assignee."
This is certain, that Corcoran & Riggs and Hill were deprived of the use of $69,720, less the small amount due to
Wetmore, for five years, by reason of Spain's injunction
Cumberland Co. v. Hoffman Co., 39 Barbour, 19.

OELRICHS V. SPAIN.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the appellees.

operating on the whole fund. Practically, the injunction
operated as directly on them as if they had been specifically
named in the writ of injunction. The decree establishes that
these parties were the owners of the fund when the injunction was issued. That in point of fact they have been greatly
damnified, is not, and cannot be denied. The sole question
is, have they in law any redress on these bonds for the wrongs
thus inflicted? If they have not, it is not because they were
not entitled to an indemnity, but because by accident, omis-'
sion, or fraud, they have been deprived of it.
II. Then it is asserted that Hamilton had no interest in
the fund, because his agreement with the bank was void as
against the policy of the law, and it is thence inferred that
no damage has accrued to any one by the injunction bonds.
But it is not against this policy that one may agree to address the legislature by argument in favor of a certain
measure. We need not, however, enter into this subject, for
the objection is wholly misapplied. This is not an action to
enforce the agreement, but one which relates solely to the disposition of money paid on such agreement.* Besides, if the
question could have ever been made, it cannot be now, after
the decree in the former case, where the bank and Spain
were parties, and where the decree was based on the fact that
Hamilton did own the fund. Oelrichs and May identified
themselves with that litigation, and though not technically
parties, are bound by the decree in it as much as if they had
been named on the record.
II. It is next maintained that the release by the trustees
of the bank discharged the bond as to those obligees who
did not release. But this rule cannot apply to a case where
the interest of the obligees is separate and distinct. No act
of one under such circumstances could qualify, much less
destroy, the rights of another. Even if the release had been
by the present complainants, equity would not give it effect
beyond the intention of the parties and the justice of the
case.t
Brooks v. Martin, 2 Wallace, 78.
t Clagett v. Salmon, 5 Gill & Johnson, 315.

Dec. 1872.]

OELRICHS V.

SPAIN.

Argument for the appellees.

IV. Again, it is urged that no loss of interest has accrued,
because the claim was never presented in such a form as to
authorize its payment by the treasury if no injunction had
been granted. The bill of Spain pr-ayed the injunction, on
.the averment "that the Secretary of the Treasury is about to
pay to said Wetmore the sum of $81,772.08." The attempt is
now made to controvert this sworn statement, and to prove
that no payment could have been made, because neither
Hamilton nor Hill had filed releases, as were required by
the Secretary of the Treasury. If the law required this, the
presumption is that the releases have been filed; the money
has been paid. This presumption is not rebutted by the
admission that these releases are not found in a certain file
of papers in the department. The act requires releases from
the "holders of the securities." Neither Hamilton nor Hill,
his assignee, had any interest in the certificates. Hamilton
bad only a personal demand upon the bank for his commissions, when the sum of money was collected and paid over.
But, again: What necessity was there to file these releases
after the injunction lodged in the department which forbade
all parties from receiving the fund enjoined? This payment
could not take place until the injunction was dissolved and
the interest of the several parties ascertained. When the decree was presented showing that neither Hamilton nor Hill
had any interest in the certificates, and decreeing that Wetmore was alone entitled to receive the whole sum (if, in fact, no
releases were filed), we can do no otherwise.,than conclude
that the secretary considered such releases unnecessary, and
therefore waived them.
V. As to counsel fees. Hill is entitled to include the
counsel fees paid in consequence of the injunction. Whether
counsel fees are recoverable in actions ex contractu is not the
question. On this point the decisions are not harmonious.
The claim here is founded on the express terms of the obligation, which is to pay "as well the costs, damages, and
charges as shall occur in said Circuit Court, as all costs, damages, and charges as shall be occasioned by said writ of injunction."
These "costs, damages, and charges," superadded, are not

OELRICHS V. SPAIN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

referable to the Circuit Court, for they are specifically provided for, and if they do not cover counsel fees they are
meaningless. In Edwards v. Bodine,* the condition of the
injunction bond was "to pay such damages as the larties
may sustain by reason of the injunction." The court allowed,
the fees, saying:
"Here it is not matter of discretion-the condition is imperative."
The same rule is applied to attachment bonds.t
Mr. Justice SWAYINE delivered the opinion of the'court.
This litigation grows out of a prior suit, to which it is
necessary briefly to advert in order to render intelligible the
issues to be decided in the case before us.
The Bank of the United States assigned to William S.
Wetmore certain bonds of the State of Texas as security for
a debt which the bank owed him. He surrendered the
bonds to the State and received in their stead certificates of
indebtedness which he deposited in the Treasury of the
United States for payment, under the act of Congress of the
9th of September, 1850, and the explanatory act of February
28th, 1855. The bank thereafter transferred one-tenth of
the certificates, less the amount due to Wetmore, to General
James Hamilton. Hamilton subsequently became indebted
to Wetmore and gave Wetmore a lien upon his share of the
fund to secure the payment of the debt and interest. He gave
like liens to Corcoran & Riggs, to James Robb & Co., and to
H. R. W. Hill. Robb & Co. transferred their claim to Hill.
The trustees of the bank also claimed a part of the one-tenth
as not embraced in the transfer to Hamilton. Before the
fund was paid over by the Treasury Department, Albert C.
Spain, as guardian of Mary McCrae, a lunatic, filed a bill in
* 11 Paige, 226; and see Aldrich v. Reynolds, 1 Barbour's Chancery, 616;

Corcoran v. Judson, 24 New York, 107; Prader v. Grimm, 28 California, 12;
Bronson v. Railroad, 2 Wallace, 283.
t Seay v. Greenwood, 21 Alabama, 496; Trapnall v. McAfee, 3 Metcalfe,

Dec. 1872.]

OELRICHS V. SPAIN.
Opinion of the court. -

equity, wherein he asserted a prior and paramount lien upon
the fund in behalf of his ward, and prayed an injunction to
prevent the defendants from receiving any part of the
amount in question until the claim set up in the bill should
have been passed upon by the court. To this bill Wetmore
and the other claimants, except Hill, were made parties defendant. An injunction was granted as prayed for, and on
the 31st of May, 1856, an injunction bond was executed.
The penalty was $15,000. The obligees were Wetmore and
the other defendants. The obligors were John F. and Henry
May. The condition was that Spain "should prosecute the
writ of injunction with effect and pay all damages and costs"
which the obligees, "or any of them, shall sustain by the
granting of this injunction." On the 23d of April, 1856, a
further bond was given, pursuant to the order of the court,
in the penal sum of twenty thousand dollars. The obligees
were Wetmore and others. Hill was not one of them.
The obligors were Spain and Oelrichs. The condition was
that Spain should prosecute the writ of injunction "with
effect and satisfy and pay as well the costs, damages, and
charges whih shall accrue in said Circuit Court of Washington County, as all costs, damages, and charges which
shall be occasioned by said writ of injunction, unless the
said court shall decree to the contrary."
By consent of parties it was thereupon ordered by the
court that this bond should be filed in lieu of the prior bond,
"reserving the right to the obligees to have recourse to the
original bond for interest theretofore accrued, at the election
of the obligees, and not otherwise."
On the 31st of Mlay, 1856, the James River and Kanawba
Company.laving filed a bill and procured a like injunction,
gave bond in the sum of $5000. The obligees were Wetmore and all the other adverse claimants of the find, including Spain and the executor of Hill. The obligors were
Thomas H. Ellis, Hugh Caperton, and Robert Ould. The
condition of the bond was that the company "shall well and
truly prosecute the said suit with effect and shall answer all
damages and costs which the defendants, or either of them,
VOL. XV.

15

OELRICHS V. SPAIN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

may sustain by the granting of this injunction, in case it
shall be dissolved."
On the 20th of June, 1856, Pierce
Butler procured a like injunction and gave bond in the sum
of $2500. The obligees were Wetmore and the other claimants of the fund, including Hill's executor. The condition
was that Butler should "pay and satisfy all costs and damages that may accrue to the obligees, or either of them, by
reason of said injunction, in case the same shall be dissolved." In the progress of the cause, Spain dismissed his
injunction as to the claim of the trustees of the bank for the
sum of $12,051.50. That amount was paid to them, and
they thereupon released their claim under the injunction
bonds. By agreement of counsel the cases of Spain and
Butler were heard together. The court decreed that there
should be first paid to Wetmore the principal and interest
of his debt, amounting together, including the cost of audit,
to $4333.66. That there should be next paid to Corcoran &
Riggs the amount of their lien, $30,000. And, thirdly, to
the representatives of Hill the debt due to his estate, found
to be then, with interest, $52,457.
The amount applicable to this demand, after satisfying the
demands of Wetmore and Corcoran & Riggs, was $38,171.
This left a balance due Hill's estate of $14,285.54 unsatisfied
and unprovided for. The case was removed to this court
by appeal, and the decree of the court below was here
affirmed.* The James Iiver and Kanawha Company dismissed their bill. Corcoran & Riggs subsequently collected
upon the bond executed by Ellis, Caperton & Ould the sum
of $5000. The penalty of the bond of Butler, $2500, was
paid to the complainant, J. Dick Hill.
This bill is brought by the executors of Wetmore, the
executor of H. R. W., Hill, and J. Dick Hill, his devisee and
only heir-at-law, against John F. M'ay, William W. Corcoran,
.George W. Riggs, Hugh Caperton, and Henry Oelrichs. It
gives sufficient reasons for not making additional parties
whose presence would otherwise be necessary, though not
'*

Spain v. Hamilton's Adm., 1 Wallace, 604.

Dec. 1872.]

OELRICHS V.

SPAIN.

Opinion of the court. ,

indispensable, in this litigation. The object of the bill is to
enforce in favor of Hill's estate the liability for damages
arising under the injunction bonds, and if need be to marshal the assets. The executors of Wetmore claim nothing
except in trust for the benefit of Hill's estate.
The court below allowed Corcoran & Riggs for damages,
interest on the amount of their lien during the time payment
was delayed by the injunction, being a period of four years
eight months and sixteen days.
The interest, thus computed, makes the sum of .
The court also allowed them for counsel fees in the
adverse litigation, .1,000

$8,475 00
00
$9,475 00

From this was deducted the amount they received upon
bond given in behalf of the James River and
]Kanawha Co.,
Balance, ..

5,000 00
$4,475 00

Of this sum, $2455.94 was apportioned to May's bond,
and $2019.06 to Oelrichs's.
The damages awarded to Hill's estate were as follows:
Loss of principal by reason of the fact that part of the
fund which would otherwise have been applied to
it in part payment was absorbed for the interest
upon the prior claims,
Interest on $36,214.35 for 4 yrs. 8 mos. 16 days,
Counsel fees in the adverse litigation, ..
Deduct the amount received on the Butler bond, .
Balance,

$827 41
10,230 55
1,500 00
$12,557 96
2,500 00
5..$10,057 96

Of this sum there was appropriated to May's bond
$5027.15, and to Oelricbs's, $5030.81.
May and Oelrichs, appealed, and the case is now before
this court for final adjudication.
It has been insisted by the counsel for the appellants that
there is a complete remedy at law, and that the bill must,
therefore, be dismissed. Such must be the consequence if
the objection is well taken. In the jurisprudence of the

OELRICHS V.

SPAIN.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

United States this objection is regarded as jurisdictional,
and may be enforced by the court sud sponte, though not
raised by the pleadings nor suggested by counsel.*
The 16th section of the Judiciary Act of 1789 provides,
"that suits in equity shall not be sustained in any case
where plain, adequate, and complete remedy can be had at
law ;" but this is merely declaratory of the pre-existing rule,
and does not apply where the remedy is not "plain, adequate,
and complete;" or, in other words, "where it is not as practical and efficient to the ends of justice and to its prompt
administration, as the remedy in equity."t
Where the remedy at law is of this character, the party
seeking redress must pursue it. In such cases the adverse
party has a constitutional right to a trial of the issues of fact
by a jury.1
But this principle has no application to the case before us.
Upon looking into the record it is clear to our minds, not
only that the remedy at law would not be as effectual as the
remedy in equity, but we do not see that there is any effectual
remedy at all at law. If the injunctio-n bonds were- sued
upon at law, and judgments recovered, a proceeding in
equity would still be necessary to settle the respective rights
of the several obligees to the proceeds. The direct proceeding in equity will save time, expense, and a multiplicity
of suits, and settle finally the rights of all concerned in one
litigation. Besides, there is an element of trust in the case,
which, wherever it exists, always confers jurisdiction in
equity.
It has been urged that Hamilton's arrangement with the
bank was illegal and void, and never fulfilled on his part,
and that he had no title to the residuum of one-tenth of the
certificates to which his assignment related. It is a sufficient
answer to say that the trustees of the bank were parties to
the former suit, and that the court recognized and affirmed
* Parker v. Winnipissiogee Company, 2 Black, 551; Graves v. Boston
Company, 2 Cranch, 419; Fowle v. Laurdson, 5 Peters, 495; Dade v. Irwine,
2 Howard, 383.
j- Boyce v. Grundy, 3 Peters, 215. 1 Hipp v. Baben, 19 Howard, 278.

Dec. 1872.]

OELRICHS V.

SPAIN.

Opinion of the court.

the validity of the claim by administering the fund arising
from it. The appellants cannot go behind the decree in the
case in which their bonds were given. The law and the
facts of that case, as settled by the court, are conclusive of
their rights in this proceeding. They cannot be permitted
to raise any question as to either.
The release given by the trustees of the bank cannot avail
the defendants. If it were not by a sealed instrument, it
would not be a technical bar even in a suit at law. In what
form it was given is not disclosed in the record. But if it
were properly executed under seal, it cannot in equity affect
the severable and separate rights of parties to the bonds other
than those by whom it was executed.
It is true that neither Hill nor his representatives were
parties to either the bond of May or the bond of Oelrichs,
and that they were not named in the writ of injunction
issued upon the filing of the first.bond. But Spain's bill
averred that -etmore held the fund in trust for Hill. Wetmore was an obligee in both bonds. The -legal title to the
entire fund was in him, and was never divested. It was extinguished by the payment of the money by the Treasury
Department, and its distribution pursuant to the decree of
the court. Wetmore during his lifetime, and after his death,
his legal representatives, might have recovered upon the
bonds at law to the full extent of the damages touching the
entire fund. Such was his and their legal right. Equity
would have distributed the proceeds, if need be, according
to his rights and the equities of the other parties in interest.
In this case equity follows the law as regards the liability
of the appellants, and, having the proceeds in hand, will
distribute them in this proceeding.*
The objection that proper releases were not filed in the
Treasury Department is untenable. The proofs establish
three facts:
The findwould have been paid over earlier but for the
injunction.
Livingston v. Moore, 7 Peters, 547; Riddle v. Mandeville, 5 Cranch,
322.

OELRICHS V. SPAIN.

ESup. or.

Opinion of the court.

It was paid after the injunction was dissolved.
The delay caused by the injunction was the period for
which interest was allowed by the court below.
Whether the payment was, or would have been, improperly made, is an inquiry which does not arise in this
case, and with which the appellants have nothing to do.
It is sufficient for the purpose of this case that there was,
in fact, such delay, and that it proceeded from the cause
alleged in the bill.
The decree of the court below was preceded by the report
of a master, which the decree affirmed and followed. Upon
looking into the report we find it clear and able, and we are
entirely satisfied with it, except in one particular. We think
that both the master and the court erred in allowing counsel
fees as a part of the damages covered by the bonds.
In Areambel v. Wisernan,* decided by this court in 1796, it
appeared "by an estimate of the damages upon which the
decree was founded, and which was annexed to the record,
that a charge of $1600 for counsel fees in the courts below
had been allowed." This court held that it "ought not to
have been allowed." The report is very briet" The nature
of the case does not appear. It is the settled rule that counsel fees cannot be included in the damages to be recovered
for the infringement of a patent.t They cannot be allowed
to the gaining side in admiralty as incident to the judgment
beyond the costs and fees allowed by the statute.4
In actions of trespass where there are no circumstances of
aggravation, only compensatory damages can be recovered,
and they do not include the fees of counsel. The plaintiff
is no more entitled to them, if lie succeed, than is the defendant if the plaintiff be defeated. Why should a distinction be made between them? In certain actions ex delicto
vindictive damages may be given by the jury. In regard
to that class of cases this court has said: "It is true that
* 3 Dallas, 306.

- Tesse et al. v. Huntingdon et al., 23 Howard, 2; Whittemore v. Cutter,
1 Gallison, 429; Stimpson v. The Railroads, 1 Wallace, Jr., 164.
$ The Baltimore, 8 Wallace, 378.

Dec. 1872.]

OELRICHS V. SPAIN.

Opinion of the court.

damages assessed by way of example may indirectly compensate the plaintiff for money expended in counsel fees,
but the amount of these fees cannot be taken as the measure
of punishment or a necessary element in its infliction."*
The point here in question has never been expressly decided by this court, but it is clearly within the reasoning of
the case last referred to, and we think is substantially determined by that adjudication. In debt, covenant and assumpsit damages are recovered, but counsel fees are never
included. So in equity cases, where there is no injunction
bond, only the taxable costs are allowed to the complainants.
The same rule is applied to the defendant, however unjust
the litigation on the other side, and however large the expensa litis to which he may have been subjected. The parties in this respect are upon a footing of equality. There is
no fixed standard by which the honorariumcan be measured.
Some counsel demand much more than others. Some clients
are willing to pay more than others. More counsel may be
employed than are necessary. When both client and counsel know that the fees are to be paid by the other party there
is danger of abuse. A reference to a master, or an issue to
a jury, might be necessary to ascertain the proper amount,
and this grafted litigation might possibly be more animated
and protracted than that in the original cause. It would be
an office of some delicacy on the part of the court to scale
down the charges, as might sometimes be necessary.
We think the principle of disallowance rests on a solid
foundation, and that the opposite rule is forbidden by the
analogies of the law and sound public policy.
The amount of the allowance in this case may be remitted
here, as was done in the case in 3d Dallas, and the decree
of the Circuit Court will thereupon be ArFIRED. Otherwise

the decree will be

REVERSED,

and the cause remanded for the

reformation of the decree,
IN

CONFORMITY TO THIS OPINION.

* Day v. Woodworth et al., 13 Howard, 370, 371.

