SMOOT'S

[Sup. Ct.

CASE.

Syllabus.

General of the United States, the lion. Joseph Holt, Esq.,*
whom he characterized as "the most eminent and able writer
on military law that this country had ever produced."
Mr. C. 1. _ill, Assistant Attorney-General, contra, submitted tle case on the record.
The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
We do not think that, under the circumstances of the
present case, the bounty was forfeited.

The able lawyer

who fills at present the post of Judge Advocate General, in
a case similar to the present, held that "the honorable discharge of the deserter wa a formal final judgment passed
by the government upon the entire military record of the
soldier, and an authoritative declaration by it that he had
left the service in a status of honor; that as such, it dispensed altogether with the supposed necessity that the soldier must obtain bounty by removal, by order, of the charge
of desertion from the rolls, and amounted of itself to the
removal of any charge or impediment in the way of his receiving bounty." With this opinion we entirely concur.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.-

SIOOT'S CASE.
1. The court calls attention to the efforts frequently made by contractors
and by their counsel to construe contracts made with the government
by appeals to its power, its magnanimity, and generosity.
2. Such appeals, it declares, can properly be presented to Congress alone;
for the jurisdiction of the Court of Claims is of contracts express or implied.
3. In the construction and enforcement of these contracts, the Court of
Claims is bound to apply the ordinary principles which govern such
contracts between individuals.
* Digest of the Opinions of the Judge Advocate General of the Army;
published by the War Department, Bureau of Military Justice; p. 146,
paragraph 7, title "Discharge."

Dec. 1872.]

SMOOT'S CASE.
Statement of the case.

4. A. contracted with the bureau of cavalry during the late rebellion, to
furnish to it, within a time specified, a large number of cavalry horses,
sound, and of specified size, age, &c. A. had no horses at this time;
but meant to get them from other persons, their owners, who would
send them through him for inspection, &c., so that he might fulfil his
contract. At the time of the contract, horses furnished under contracts
to the department were, by its rules, to be examined and inspected without unnecessary delay, and if the animals were not satisfactory to the
inspecting officer the owner took them away in the same state that he
brought them. Before the time that the horses in this case were deliverable, the bureau of cavalry adopted a regulation that horses presented
for inspection should remain at the expense of the contractor one day in
the inspection yard, and that horses presented for inspection which
were a manifest fraud on the government should be branded with the
letter R. Under this new rule, the owners of the horses would not furnish them to A. to be sent forward and inspected. Whereupon A.,
without delivering, buying, or tendering any horses to be inspected,
under any rules, even the old, abandoned his contract and sued the
government for what profits he might have made had the old rules remained, and had he bought and delivered the horses under them. Held
that he could recover nothing.
6. The adoption by the bureau of cavalry of the new regulation did not render it impossible for the contractor to purchase and deliver the number
of horses which he had agreed to deliver.
6. Nor did the adoption of those rules, after the contract was made, authorize the contractor to abandon his contract and sue for the profits which
he might have made, though he neither bought, nor delivered, nor tendered any horses, as he had agreed to do.
7. Such new rules did not disable the government from receiving and paying for the horses, nor was it a notification that the government would
not have them.
8. A party binding himself to deliver personal property can only be relieved
in this respect on the ground of clear refusal of the other party to receive or becoming disabled to perform his part of the contract.
APPEAL and cross-appeal from the Court of Claims; the
case being thus:
On the 5th of February, 1864, Smoot entered into two
contracts with the War Department through Eakin, quartermaster; one to deliver within forty days 2500 cavalry horses
at St. Louis, and the other to deliver within fifty days 2000
like horses at Chicago, at the government stables in each
place; of certain qualifications set forth in the contracts, and
subject to the inspection provided for in one article of the
contract, which was as follows:

S11ooT's CASE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

"It is agreed that the horses, upon being delivered, shall be
examined and inspected without unnecessary delay, by a person
or persons appointed by the United States, and after such inspector shall have certified that they are in all respects as contracted for, and fully equal- to the specifications aforesaid, they
shall be received and become the property of the United States;
and all such horses as may be condemned and rejected by said
inspectors, shall be removed from the government stables within
one day after the contractor shall have been notified of said rejection."
Payment for the horses was to be made on completion of
the contract, should Congress have made an appropriation
for that purpose; otherwise as soon thereafter as funds
might be appropriated.
During the existence of the contracts Smoot was possessed
of means and credit to comply with the stipulations on his
part, and he and his agents went to Chicago and other parts
of the West to make, and did make, all necessary arrangements to carry them out, except the actual procuring of the
horses.
At the time the contracts were entered into, and long
prior thereto, the mode of inspection of horses purchased
by the government had been for horses to be presented and
immediately examined in the presence of the owner, and if
satisfactory, they were accepted, and if unsatisfactory, they
were rejected and returned to the owner without delay, expense, or blemish.
By an order, however, dated on the same day as these
contracts, but not promulgated in Chicago or St. Louis until
the 1st of March, or known to the defendant till then, the
government ordered another and different mode of inspection from what had been the practice and custom of the
government theretofore. This new order ran thus:
"Each horse shall be placed in the inspection yard twentyfour hours before inspection, after which time, every person,
except the inspector and his assistants, are to leave the yard,
not to re-enter it or handle the horses until the inspection and
branding has been completed.

Dec. 1872.]

SMOOT'S CASE.
Statement of the case.

"All horses presented that are manifestly an attempt at fraud
on the government because of any incurable disease or any distemper whatevFr, shall be branded on the left shoulder with the
letter R.
"Horses that are rejected for being under age, in poor condition, or temporarily injured by transportation or otherwise,
shall be lightly branded on the front hoof near the coronet,
with the letter R, not to exceed three-quarters of an inch.
"Any horse once rejected, that is presented to the government without notice of that fact, shall be considered and deemed
fraud upon the government, and branded on the left shoulder
as fraud.
"When horses are doubtful before ,branding, they may be
kept three or four days under guard, at the expense of the contractor,and then disposed of by branding or otherwise, as the
inspector may determine.
"No mares will be accepted."
At the time the contracts were entered into, and for a long
time prior thereto, the usual course of business in filling
contracts of this kind, had been for the contractor to buy
his horses subject to government inspection, and one effect
of the order of the new rules of inspection was to create a
change in this course of business, and, therefore, no horses
could be purchased by contracts subject to the new inspection.
Another effect was to impose upon the contractors considerable risk, in consequence of the horses being injured
by kicks and bruises; by contagious diseases; by loss of
identity, in putting the animals with other parcels of horses,
so that in the event of rejection the same animals could not
be returned; by the expense of keeping the animals during
the four days; by injury which might occur to them from
being branded by hot iron; the branding of a rejected horse
in the manner prescribed by the new order greatly lessening his market value.
Upon ascertaining the effect produced by the new order
of inspection, Smoot caused application to be made at the
office of the bureau of cavalry, in Washington, for a modifi-

SMOOT'S CASE.

ESup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

cation of it, and repeatedly offered to go on and fill the contracts if the objectionable features of the order should be
removed. The chief of the bureau was then absent. The
next officer in rank referred the matter to the chief, who
was expected to be in Chicago soon to decide the matter
there. The 6hief of the cavalry did soon after arrive in
Chicago, and the matter was presented to him by several
other contractors who were in the same position as Smoot,
but 'the chief decided not to revoke or modify the order.
N'either Smoot nor his agent saw the chief of the cavalry in
Chicago, but his decision was communicated to Smoot.
Smoot was able and willing to perform his contract by delivering the horses within the time prescribed by it, subject
to the inspection prescribed by the contract, but was unwilling to deliver any horses subject to the inspection required
by the new order. -e did not possess any horses in Chicago,
nor tender any to the government at that place, nor apply there
to the chief of the cavalry bureau to waive the inspection
ordered; but he possessed ample time and means for procuring horses, and he regarded the order as a renunciation by
the government of its agreement.
So far in regard to the horses deliverable at Chicago.
The same facts existed as to the contract for St. Louis
as to the contract for Chicago, except that the new order
was not enforced at St. Louis as against contracts dated prior
to its promulgation. Of this fact, however, Smoot had no
knowledge, but believed that the order was enforced there,
as well as in Chicago. He did not ask the inspecting officers in St. Louis anything about the matter, and did not
attempt to transport horses to St. Louis, in acrordance with
his contract.
Smoot not fulfilling his contract was arrested by the government, under an act of Congress passed in the exigencies
of the rebellion,* fined $10,000, and put into Fort Delaware
for a wilful neglect of duty. He was afterwards, however,
on an examination of the case by the Judge Advocate General released.
* Act of July 17th, 1862.

Dec. 1872.]

SM OOT'S CASE.
Argument for the contractor.

The Court of Claims having found a case essentially as
above, and that the fair profits which Smoot would have
made on the 2000 horses to be delivered at Chicago, if he
had been allowed to perform his contract according to its
terms, would have been $10 a horse, gave him on that contract $20,000.
On the St. Louis contract, the court decided in favor of
the government. In the Chicago contract the government
appealed; in the St. Louis one, Smoot.
Mr.B. F. Butler, for the claim ant, Smoot:
The findings in this case are so far different fr'om those in
United States v. Worner,* as to warrant us bringing it before
the court for consideration.
1st. I regard to the contract for Chicago; the appeal by the
United States. The question is whether the new order of the
government, so onerous and impracticable of execution as
to have rendered the performance of the contract impossible
by Smoot, is, in law, a breach of the contract on the part of
the government, so as to render the United States liable for
such damages as may be proved to be sustained by the contractor; damages which the court below have found to be
$20,000.
There needs neither citation of authorities nor argument
to prove, if one party to a contract, by his own act, interposes and enforces onerous conditions upon the manner of
the performance of a contract not contemplated by the other
party thereto at its inception, and refuses to permit its performance unless those conditions are complied with, that a
breach of the contract is thus made by the party so refusing,
and he is liable to the party capable and willing to perform
on his part, not only for all that he has lost in attempting to
perform, but for all the fair profits he would have made in
its performance.
Neither the government nor an individual can be permitted to alter any essential element of a contract after it
* 13 Wallace, 25.

SMOOT'S CASE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the contractor.

has been entered into a fortiori, when, as in the case at bar,
the conditions so imposed render the performance of the
contract impossible.
In Woriner's case but two facts were found bearing on
this point: first, the contract; second, the order of inspection;
and the court was asked, as a matter of law, to infer, as did
the court below, that the regulations of the inspection were
"unreasonable." This clearly was a matter of fact, and not
of law. The order of inspection could not be known to the
court to be unreasonable as a matter of fact. The case was
silent on that subject. It did not appear in that case even'
that, by the new order, there had been any substantial change
from the former custom and practice of the government in
the inspection of horses, or that the changes, if any had
been made, bore onerously on the contractors.
Now, in this present case, the order of inspection was
found to be impracticable of execution, so that at St. Louis
it was not enforced. It was relaxed as to the only other
contractor who did perform his contracts.
2d. As to the contractfor St. Louis; or the appeal by Smoot.
This stands upbn a precisely similar contract in all material
provisions as the other. The distinguishing fact, upon which
it would seem that the court below must have found against
Smoot, was, that he did not apply at St. Louis for a modification of the order of inspection, nor buy and transport to St.
Louis any horses in flfilmeut of the contract. The only
question of law, if the court sustaiu our views in the case of
the contract at Chicago, which can arise here, is whether,
under the facts stated, Smoot was bound to tender horses at
St. Louis, or apply there for the disobedience of the order
of inspection. The case shows that the order was suspended
by the subordinate officers there as to another contractor;
but it also shows that Smoot applied to the War Department for its relaxation, and was referred to the chief of the
cavalry bureau at Chicago for his answer, and there learned
that it would not be modified or relaxed. And no reason,
in fact or law, is found why it should be suspended at St.
Louis if not in Chicago. Was Smoot, then, bound to apply

Dec. 1872.]

MOOT'S CASE.
Opinion of the court.

at St. Louis in expectation that the order would be there
disobeyed? This was an order from the War Department,
solemnly promulgated for the direction of the whole government in this regard. He had applied to that department,
been referred to the chief officer of the proper bureau for
his answer, and had received it. Could he then, in law, be
compelled to apply at St. Louis for a suspension of the order
by the subordinates there.? Had he not a right to suppose
that the order, being a general one, would be generally enforced where no reason appeared for the exception?
If, then, he was not obliged to apply for a modification of
the order at St. Louis, would the law compel him to put
himself to great expense to attempt the impossibility of performing his contract therd?
Mr. G. -H. Williams, Attorney-General, Mr. C. H. Hill, and
XMichael, Assistant Attorneys-General,for the United
1r. W.
States, argued that the case was not distinguishable from
United States v. Wormer; which might have been decided on
the ground that there was no tender, nor any evidence even
that Wormer had any horses; a position which certainly
disposed of Smoot's claims in both cases here.*
Repty. Of what use was an actual tender? If A. contract
to build a brick house for B., and B., when A. is getting
ready to build it, gives him notice that he will not have any
such house on his ground, nor any house but a stone one, is
A. bound to cart bricks to B.'s land and insist on putting
up the brick house? In the present case the refusal to
modify the government order was a sufficient refusal. After
this refusal, why was Smoot bound to put himself to the
trouble and expense of driving 2000 horses from all parts
of the West to the city of Chicago, only to be there turned
away, ad vana lex nerninein cogit ?
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
Mr. Smoot claims of the United States a large sum of
* Smith's Leading Oases, 7th American edition, 42, 43; note to Cutter 0.
Powell; Benjamin on Sales, 423.

SMOOT'S CASE.

[-Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

money for the profits which he might have made out of two
contracts with Quartermaster Eakin, for delivering cavalry
horses for the use of the army-two thousand five hundred
at St. Louis and two thousand at Chicago. It is neither
alleged nor proved that he ever tendered a horse at either
place, or attempted otherwise to perform his contract, or
that he was ready to do so, or that he owned any horses, or
had expended a dollar in preparing to fulfil his contract.
The proposition on which the claimant rests his right to these
speculative profits is not on account of anything he had
done, or offered to do towards performance, or any actual
loss sufered, but that after the contract was made, the cavalry bureau of the War Department adopted and published
rules governing the inspection of horses purchased for that
service, differing from those in use at the time the contract
was made. It is not asserted that these rules required a
higher or more difficult standard of quality in the horses,
but that the mode in which that standard was to be ascertained was so changed as to impose a greater hardship, or
burden, upon the contractor. Nor is it claimed that these
new regulations were adopted with special reference to their
application to Smoot's contracts. They were a new regulation of the business of inspection of a general character.
The contracts sued on, which are identical, except in the
number of horses and the place of delivery, provided for an
inspection. But it is argued that the new regulations were
not only a departure fiom those in use when the contracts
were made, and imposed an additional burden on the contractor, but that conceding the right of the bureau to make
proper and reasonable regulations for inspection, these were
unreasonable and improper. The two points of difference
in the new and the old mode of inspection most earnestly
pressed in the argument are:
1. That by the new regulations the horses offered must
remain at the expense of the contractor twenty-four hours in
the inspection yard, into which no other person than the inspector and his assistants shall be permitted to enter until
the inspection is completed.

Dec. 1872).]

SMOOT'S CASE.

Opinion of the court.

2. That all horses presented for inspection that are manifestly an attempt at fraud on the government, because of
incurable disease, or any purposely concealed, defect whatever, shall be branded on the left shoulder with the letter R.
The argument founded on these rules is presented under
two propositions:
1. That the adoption of them by the cavalry bureau rendered it impossible for the contractor to perform his contract, because no owner of horses would sell to him subject
to have them branded as a fraud by inspectors of whom he
knew nothing, and who might be incompetent or oppressive.
2. That the application of these rules to horses tendered
under claimant's contract absolved him from the obligation
of performance, or tender, or offer to perform, and left him
at full liberty to sue for the profits which he had done nothing to earn beyond making the contract.
There is in a large class of cases coming before us from
the Court of Claims a constant and ever recurring attempt
to apply to contracts made by the government, and to give
to its action under such contracts, a construction and an
effect quite different from those which courts of justice are
accustomed to apply to contracts between individuals.
There arises in the mind of parties and counsel interested
for the individual against the United States a sense of the
power and resources of this great government, prompting
appeals to its magnanimity and generosity, to abstract ideas
of equity, coloring even the closest legal argument. These
are addressed in vain to this court. Their proper theatre is
the halls of Congress, for that branch of the government has
limited the jurisdiction of the Court of Claims to cases arising out of contracts express or implied-contracts to which
the United States is a party in the same sense in which an
individual might be, and to which the ordinary principles
of contracts must and should apply.
It would be very dangerous, indeed, to the best interests
of the government-it would probably lead to the speedy
abolition of the Court of Claims itself-if,adopting the views
so eloquently urged by counsel, that court, or this, should

SMOOT'S CASE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

depart from the plain rule laid down above, and render
decrees on the crude notions of the judges of what is'or
would be morally right between the government and the
individual.
In illustration of this course of observation the proposition
that the regulation concerning branding the horses fraudulently presented for inspection made it impossible for the
contractor to perform his contract, may be well cited.
As between individuals, the impossibility which releases
a man from the obligation to perform his contract must be
a real impossibility, and not a mere inconvenience. And
while such an impossibility may release the party from
liability to suit for non-performance, it does not stand for
performance so as to enable the party to sue and recover as
if he had performed.
The argument on this branch of the subject in the case
before us loses sight of these principles.
There was no impossibility. It is a mere inconvenience.
If the contractor has the money and purchases his horses
before he offers them for inspectioii, there is presented no
obstruction whatever, by the rules of inspection, in obtaining
the required number of horses. It is only because he desires
to transfer the risk and loss of rejection from himself to the
parties of whom he purchases, that he has difficulty. The
government made no agreement with him to protect him in
this way. His ability to buy horses that would pass inspection was a part of the responsibility that he assumed, and
which it was by no means impossible to perform, if he had
the money and was ready to pay when he bought the horses
of their original owners. Certainly no such circumstance as
this would be set up for a moment in an ordinary suit between individuals as an impossibility, which released the
party from his contract.
But suppose the contract had been between private parties,
and an epidemic had prostrated every horse in the country
with disease for the forty days allowed to buy and deliver
sound horses by this contract. Will any one assert that this
would authorize the contractor to sue for the profits he could

Dec. 1872.]

SMOOT'S CASE.

Opinion of the court.

have made, if no epidemic had occurred, though he neither
then nor afterwards bought, or delivered, or tendered a horse?
While such a public misfortune might possibly (we do not
say it would) have been a defence to a suit against him for
non-performance, it could be the foundation of no claim on
his part to recover as if he had performed.
Perhaps no class of contracts has been more frequently the
subject of judicial consideration than those for the future
delivery of personal chattels. Such a contract is this. A
contract in which the delivery is a condition precedent to
payment; for the provision is that the delivery is to be at
Chicago and St. Louis, and the payment made afterwards at
Washington; and the time of payment is expressly made
dependent upon appropriations made or to be made by
Congress.
In approaching the inquiry into the effect which the action
of the bureau of cavalry, in adopting these new rules for inspection, had upon the rights of the parties to this contract,
let us endeavor to free ourselves from the consideration that
the government was one party to the contract, and that it
was for a large number of horses; for we hold it to be clear
that the principles which must govern the inquiry are the
same as if the contract were between individuals, and the
number of horses one or a dozen instead of four thousand.
The increased difficulty arising from the number to be delivered in a given time was voluntarily assumed by the contractor, and he had the right, during the forty or fifty days
allowed him, to deliver any number, smaller or greater, at
one time.
We are also to remember that the question to be considered
is not whether the action of the cavalry bureau would have
been a defence if the claimant had been sued for a failure to
perform his part of the contract, but whether it was sufficient
to authorize him to abandon the contract himself, and as a
plaintiff recover against the other party the profits which he
would have made if it had been fully performed.
With these views before us the regulations adopted can
only have the effect claimed upon one or two grounds;

SMOOT'S CASE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

namely, as a notification by the government that it refused
to receive the horses according to the terms of the contract,
by which refusal the other party was released from his obligation to tender; or that the government had disabled
itself fi'om complying, and therefore the other party was not
bound to tender. The most recent work, and a very able
one, on "The law of sales of personal property," lays down
the rule on this subject as follows: "A mere assertion that
the party will be unable, or will refuse to perform his contract, is not sufficient; it must be a distinct and unequivocal
absolute refusal to perform the promise, and must be treated
and acted upon as such by the party to whom the promise
was made; for if he afterwards continue to urge or demand
a compliance with the contract, it is plain that he does not
understand it to be at an end."* The English cases cited
abundantly sustain the proposition. Arery v. Bowden, in the
Court of Exchequer,t affirmed in the Exchequer Chamber,J
is very much in point. It was an action arising out of a
charter-party, one of the covenants in which was that the
vessel should be at Odessa, and lay there forty running days,
within which time the shipper was to furnish her cargo, unless war should be sooner declared between Russia and Great
Britain. The vessel came to Odessa on the 11th March, and
sailed away in ballast on the 17th April. It was proved that
at four different times during this period the officers of the
ship applied to the agent of the charterer for cargo, who said,
"We have none for you," and at last said, "I have no cargo
for you; you had better go away."
On this testimony a verdict was taken for the plaintiff, the
ship-owner, subject to the judgment of the court on the law
of the case. The judges, both in the Exchequer Court and
in the Exchequer Chamber, were unanimous in the opinion
that this conduct of the agent did not relieve the plaintiff
from the obligation to remain the forty days, and that on
that count he could not recover.
In the case of Pidllpotis v..Evans,ยง tle defendant, who had
* Benjamin on Sales, 424.

4

6 Id. 953.

t 5 Ellis and Blackburn, 714.
6 Mleeson and Wclsby, 475.

Dec. 1872.]

SM00T'S

OASE.

Opinion of the court.

agreed to receive and pay for wheat, notified the plaintiff,
before the time of delivery, that he would not receive it.
The plaintiff tendered the wheat at the proper time, and the
only question raised was, whether the measure of damages
should be governed by the price of wheat at the time of the
notice or at the time of the tender. Baron Park said: "I
think no action would have lain for the breach of the contract
at the time of the notice, but that plaintiff was bound to wait
until the time of delivery to see whether the defendant would
then receive it. The defendant might have chosen to take
it and would have been guilty of no breach of contract. His
contract was not broken by his previous declaration that he
would not accept."
And though some of the judges in the subsequent case of
.lochsteer v. De La Tour* disapprove very properly of tlIe
extreme ground taken by Baron Park, they all agree that
the refusal to accept, on the part of the defendant, in such
case, must be absolute and unequivocal, and must have been
acted on by the plaintiff.
In the case before us there was no such refusal. The
officers of the government required of the plaintiff at all
times the delivery of the horses of the kind and quality
which he had agreed to deliver. And so far from refusing to
accept, or intending to release the plaintiff from his obligation to deliver, it is found as a fact in the case that he was
arrested and imprisoned by the military authorities for refusing to deliver the horses.
Xor can it be maintained that those regulations disabled
the government from performing its contract. They werejust as ready to accept and as able to pay for the horses,
notwithstanding the regulation. It may be said that the
regulation tied the hands of the government officers so that
they could only accept horses inspected under it, and that tosuch inspection the plaintiff was not bound to submit. But
to this proposition the remark of Baron Park is peculiarly
applicable. The government was not bound to apply to* 2 Ellis and Blackburn, 678.
VOL. XV.

4

SM00WS CASE.

[Sup. ort.

Opinion of the court.

horses furnished under a previous contract these subsequent
regulations. They were general in their terms and were
not adopted with a special view to these contracts. And
the declarations of certain officers that they would be governed by them bound nobody. The correctness of this view
is strikingly illustrated in this case, for the Court of Claims
finds that the officers receiving cavalry horses at St. Louis
did receive horses on all contracts made previous to the
adoption of the new regulations under the old mode of inspection, and did not apply to them the objectionable rules,
and for that reason they reject Smoot's claim as to the contract to deliver at St. Louis.
We think it was equally his duty to have tendered horses
at Chicago, and if the new regulations would have relieved
him at all from that duty, it would have been after he had
made a tender, and objected to the application of the new
rule of inspection, and the proper officer had refused to receive the horses without subjecting them to those rules.
Until then he could not justly claim that the government
had violated its contract.
In Mr. Smoot's case, he never had any declaration made
to him or his agent from any one in charge of the execution
of those contracts on the part of the government, that the
rule would be applied to him or his contract. He accepted
and acted upon declarations made to other parties and not
to himself.
We do not, however, believe that this would have varied
the matter. It would have been no great hardship for him
to have so far attempted compliance with his contract as to
have tendered twenty or fifty horses under it, and tested the
action which the government officers would take when he
was thus attempting to fulfil his contract and objecting to
the application of the new rule. Then the officers of the
government would have been legally called on to determine
whether they would apply them or not. Until that time
they were under no obligation and had no right to commit
themselves or others irrevocably on that subject.
On these grounds we think that the claimant had no right

Dec. 1872.]

KEARNEY

v. DENN.

Syllabus.

to recover on either of the contracts sued on. It follows that
the judgment of the Court of Claims in favor of Smoot on
the Chicago contract is REVERSED, and the case remanded
for judgment in favor of the United States; and the judgment of that court on the St. Louis contract, the subject of
the appeal by Smoot, is
AFFIRMIED.

INOTE.
AT the same time was adjudged-it having been previously
argued by ir. 0. H, Hill, Assistant Attorney-General, for the
United States, and by Mr. tames Hughes, contra-the case of the
UNITED STATES V. SPICER,

the facts of which were very similar to those of Smoot's case,

above reported. Judgment had been given below in favor of
Spicer. The court now announced that the principles set forth
in Smoot's case, which they had just decided, must govern
Spicer's case also.

The judgment in it was accordingly re-

versed, with directions to the Court of Claims to render judgment
IN FAVOR OF THE 'UNITED STATES.

KREARNEY V. DENN.
1. A suit was brought in a Circuit Court; properly as regarded the citizenship of the parties. The defendant died, and his representatives
were made defendants; nothing being said as to their citizenship. On
motion to dismiss because the plaintiff and defendants were citizens of
the same State, the Circuit Court refused the motion, but on what ground
did not appear; the record not showing whether any evidence had been
"
taken on the matter, and recording only that the defendants reserved
their exception to the decision of the court." Held, that as the record
stood, there was no case that this court could examine.
2. A judgment of an Orphans' Court of Maryland (affirmed in the Court of
Appeals), passing directly on the legitimacy of a son who was applying

