MADDOX V.

UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

MADDOX V. UNITED STATES.
1. Under the statutory provisions, treasury regulations', and executive
orders concerning the purchase of the products of insurrectionary
States, a purchasing agent, acting on behalf of the United States, had
no authority to negotiate with any one in relation to the purchase of
such products, unless at the time of the negotiation the party either
owned or controlled them.
2. Private citizens were prohibited from trading at all in the insurrectionary
districts. The object of the law, and the regulations made to carry it
into effect, was to encourage the insurgents themselves to bring their
products td loyal people.
3. United States v. Lane (8th Vallace, 185), affirmed, on the two points
above quoted.

from the Court of Claims; the case being thus:
I. A. Risley, treasury agent at Norfolk for the purchase
of the products of insurrectionary States, in November, 1864,
contracted in writing to purchase from Maddox and certain
persons associated with him, loyal citizens of the United
States, a large quantity of tobacco, rosin, and turpentine,
situated in the States of Virginia and North Carolina, to be
delivered in Norfolk or New York, and sold at certain points
mentioned, under the same conditions as other sales of like
public property.
With the contract Risley delivered to Maddox and his
associates a request for safe-conduct and means of transportation.
This request was presented to the President of the United
States, who indorsed on it that the property to be transported under the contract should be free from seizure or
detention, and that the military and naval authorities be requested to furnish the necessary facilities for getting the
products within our lines. These products, at the time the
contract was made, and the military safe-conduct delivered,
were not owned or controlled by Maddox and the others,
but they expected to procure them in or about the city of
Richmond, in the State of Virginia. In the months of January and February, 1865, they succeeded, in part performAPPEAL

Dec. 1872.]

]MADDOX V. UNITED STATES.
Argument for the claimants.

ance of their contract, in purchasing a large number of
boxes of tobacco-less, however, than they bad agreed to
do-which were subsequently either burned by our military
forces, approp'riated by them to the use of the United States,
or destroyed in the fires in Richmond at the time it was captured, in April, 1865.
Hereupon Maddox and his associates filed a petition in
the Court of Claim% for an alleged breach of contract, and
praying judgment for $735,644, with interest.
The United States demurred and the court sustained the
demurrer. To reverse that decision this appeal was prosecuted.
Mir. C. .H. Bill, Assistant Attorney- General, in support of the
ruling below, argued that the case was similar to the United
States v. Lane,* in which it was held, after a, review of the
statutory provisions and the treasury regulations concerning
the purchase of products of insurrectionary States, that a
purchasing agent, acting in behalf of the Uuited States, had
no authority to negotiate with any one in relation to the
purchase of such products, unless at the time of the negotiation the party either owned or controlled them; in other
words, that they were not designed to protect a. speculation;
that independently of this the petition did not allege, and
the facts did not show, that the contractors were ready and
willing, or were even in a condition to perform fully the
contract on their part; that is to say, to deliver the whole of
the products contracted for.
And, finally, that if the claim had any foundation at all,
it was the damage sustained in consequence of the action of
the military authorities; a claim not within the jurisdiction
of the Court of Claims.t
Messrs. B. R. Curtis and James Hughes, contra,for the appellants, argued1st. That the United States v. Lane did not rule this case,
* 8 Wallace, 185.

t See act of July 4, 1864, 13 Stat. at Large, 381.

MADDOX V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

because: lt. The facts were different in this case, Lane
in his case having had far greater facilities, and he having
been allowed to carry an outward cargo. The point resolved in the case was that carrying an outgoing cargo was
without authority of law or regulations pursuant to law.
2d. That all comments of the court made in the Lane
case, which do not apply to this case, were obiter dicta and
subject to be reviewed and reconsidered in this case.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
The United States are called on to make good the loss
caused by the alleged, wrongful conduct of their military
officers, and the inquiry is, can they be required to do it in
this suit?
The main question involved in this inquiry is important,
on account of the large pecuniary interests at stak6, but is
freed from all difficulty since the decision of this court in
United Slates v. Lane. The cases are not distinguishable.
In both the right to recover was based on contracts made
by the same treasury agent with private citizens, for the
purchase from them of products which were within the lines
held by the insurrectionary forces. In each case the agent
requested safe-conduct for the parties and their necessary
means of transportation through the Federal military lines.
In neither case were the products owned, or even under the
control, of those who had contracted to sell them, but in
each case the parties expected, after they had secured their
contracts, to go within the rebel lines and obtain the products which they had agreed to deliver. It is true, in Lane's
case there were greater facilities for the execution of the
contract and better security for its performance, for Lane
was allowed to take out a cargo of goods to exchange for
the cotton to be purchased, and this cargo was in charge of
a sub-agent, under instructions not to deliver it until treble
its value in cotton should be put on board the vessel.
But these proceedings were intended only as a means to
an end. The performance of the contract was the principal
thing to be effected, and the license to take out a cargo of

:Dec. 1872.]

MADDOX V. UNITED STATES.

Opinion of the court.

goods, under certain restrictions, was, of necessity, given
for the mere purpose of securing a desired result. If Maddox did not enjoy the advantage of a similar license, he had
the use of other means not accorded to Lane, which were
expected to accomplish a similar result. It is easy to see
that he could have few things better adapted to fortify him
against failure than the certificate of the President that the
products moved by him should be free from seizure, accompanied by an order on the commandants of military districts
and naval stations to aid him in his enterprise. Whether
the facilities extended to Lane were more ample than those
which Maddox possessed is an immaterial subject of inquiry.
It is enough to say that the difference in the character of
these facilities constitutes the only distinction between the
cases, and that this difference is incidental merely-not
necessary to the chief purpose in each, and in no wise affecting the validity of the contracts. If this be so, there is an
end of this litigation, for the entire subject embraced in this
contract was before us in Lane's case and passed on. Lane,
in his petition to the Court of Claims, stated that he made a
contract with Risley, the treasury agent, at Norfolk, similar
to the one in controversy, and for the purpose of executing
it purchased a steamer at great cost, with which he proceeded
to Chowan River, North Carolina, and loaded with cotton
procured there, and that on the return voyage the steamer
and cargo were forcibly seized by the naval authorities, and
the cotton appropriated to the use of the United States.
For this alleged wrongful seizure of the vessel and appropriation of the cotton he claimed that his contract was violated, and that he was entitled to remuneration. lNothing is
said in the petition about an outward cargo, but the Court
of Claims found, as one of the facts of the case, that Lane
had a license to take out in his steamer certain articles, a,
schedule of which was attached to the safe-conduct given by
the military commander. Manifestly, from this statement
of the case, the contract was the foundation of the whole
proceeding, and if made without authority of law, the vessel

MADDOX V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

and cargo were not protected, but were subject to seizure
and detention.
It was therefore necessary, in order to see whether the
citizen bad the privilege of trading with the enemy in the
manner contemplated by this contract, to review the statutory provisions, treasury regulations, and executive orders
concerning the purchase of the products of insurrectionary
States. This was done, and after careful consideration we
held that a purchasing agent, acting on behalf of the United
States, had no authority to negotiate with any one in relation to the purchase of such products, unless at the time of
the negotiation the party either owned or controlled them;
that neither was the law nor were the regulations through
which it was administered, designed to protect a speculation
wherein the products contracted to be sold were to be procured by the contractor within the rebel lines after the contract was made. Besides this, we decided that private citizens were prohibited from trading at all in the insurrectionary districts; that the object of the law, and the regulations
made to carry it into effect, was to encourage the insurgents
themselves to bring their products to us.
There were other elements of decision, but as they are
not applicable to this suit they will not be noticed. It is
unnecessary to restate the argument in support of the judgment in Lane's case. At the time the subject received our
best thoughts, and reflection has only served to confirm the
correctness of the decision.
These claimants occupy exactly the status of Lane. Risley,
therefore, in his character of treasury agent, had no power
to deal with them at all; but if it were otherwise, the contract which he did make was unlawful, for they were not the
owners of the tobacco in question, nor did they control it
even at the time the contract was made, but purchased it
long afterwards -within the Confederate lines.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

