YOUNG v. GODBE.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

to pay shall be proved by written evidence, signed by the
party to be charged, or by his specially authorized agent or
attorney in fact."
The principle of this act is not new in the legislation of
England and this country, and its purpose and construction
are equally obvious and well understood. It is that no
verbal declaration of a deceased man shall be given in evidence to prove against him an acknowledgment of the debt,
which would otherwise be barred by the statute of linitations; and that no written evidence shall be offered unless
signed by him or his agent.
The case before us comes precisely within both the letter
and spirit of the statute. The evidence offered was parol
evidence, and if the indorsements of credits on the bond are
not strictly parol they are not written evidence signed by
the party to be charged; and the object is to prove an acknowledgment of the debt, against his succession, of a deceased man, by such evidence.
There seems no room for doubt that whatever may be the
rule as to parties who are alive, no such evidence is admissible against the administrator of a deceased party.
On both points ruled by the court concerning prescription we think the court erred, and the judgment is, there-

fore,

REVERSED,

with directions to grant
A

NEW TRIAL.

YOUNG V. GODBE.
When a suit turns on the question whether money claimed in it by the
plaintiff has been advanced to the defendant, in one capacity or in
another, evidence of what a person who had settled an account on the
subject with the defendant said that the defendant told him, is not
legal proof.
The fact that the court in allowing the evidence to go to the jury, told
them that they might corisider it for what it was worth, does not alter
the case.
In a case where interest as a general thing is due (as ex. gr., in the case
of an account stated), the fact that there may be no statute in the place
where the account is settled and the transaction takes place, does not

Dec. 1872.]

YOUNG V. GODBE.
Statement of the case.

prevent the recovery of interest. In such a case interest at a reasonable
rate, and conforming to the custom which obtains in the community in
dealings of the same character, will be allowed by way of damages for
unreasonably withholding an overdue account.

IN error to the Supreme Court of the Territory of Utah.
Oodbe filed a complaint in the court below against Brigham Young, "as trustee in trust of the Church of Jesus Christ,
a religious association in the Territory of Utah," alleging an account stated by "said defendant" prior to February 12th,
1866, and upon such statement a balance of $10,020 "due
from said defendant;" a payment of $5000, May 30th, 1868,
and praying judgment with interest at 10 per cent. "by way
of damages."
The defendant demurred, assigning for cause that it did
not sufficiently appear from the complaint whether the suit
Was against the defendant "in his individual capacity or in
his capacity as trustee in trust for the Church of Jesus Christ
of Latter-Day Saints." The demurrer was overruled. The
defendant then pleaded that no account bad ever been settled
by him as "trustee in trust," as alleged in the complaint, and
that neither the sum stated in the complaint nor any other
sum had been found due to the plaintiff from "said defe)2dant
as said trustee."
On the trial evidence was given tending to show that the
money alleged to have been advanced by the plaintiff had
been advanced to Young in some capacity, and an account
stated and credit given as alleged. In what capacity was
the question on which the controversy turned; whether, as
alleged in the complaint, to him "as trustee in trust of the
church," &c., or whether as agent of a company known as
the "Deseret Irrigation and Canal Company ;" a company
which one of the witnesses swore was "so mixed up with
the church that he did not know the difference between
them." The plaintiff sought to prove that it had been advanced to Young as "trustee in trust of the church," &c.
Letters from Young sought to cast the debt on the Irrigation and Canal Company.
The defendant having given evidence tending to show

YoUNG v. GODBE.

[Sup. or.

Opinion of the court.

that the Irrigation and Canal Company had an office in
what was known as the Council House, and that the "trustee in trust," &c., had his at what was known as the President's Office, and that these departments were separate and
distinct from each other, and had a separate set of clerks,the plaintiff brought one Armstrong, who testified that he
was in 1857, and had been ever since, the bookkeeper of a
firm known as Kimball & Lawrence, merchants in Salt Lake
City; that they had an account of some $10,000 against the
Deseret Irrigation and Canal Company; that Mr. Lawrence,
one of the firm, took the account and went away with it,
and in a short time returned "stating to this witness that it
had been settled by the 'trustee in trust,' by giving credit to
a certain person on tithing, and that the transaction so appeared on the books of Kimball &Lawrence." The defendant objected to all this evidence, for the reason "that it was
not in rebuttal and therefore illegal." The court overruled
the objection (the defendant excepting) "and the testimony
was permitted to go to the jury for what it was worth."
in charging, the court charged that if the jury should find
for the plaintiff, they would find $5020, with interest on
$10,020 from the day the account was rendered until the
day of the payment of $5000, and from that date to the day
of trial on the amount remaining due.
Verdict and judgment having gone for the plaintiff, the
admission of the evidence above mentioned and the instruction to the jury were, among other matters, assigned for
error.
Messrs. C. J. Hillier and Thornas"Fitch, for the plaintiff in
error; vo opposing counsel.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
The testimony of Armstrong, the bookkeeper of Kimball
&Lawrence, was objected to by the defendant for the reason
that it was not in rebuttal, and therefore illegal, but the
court overruled the objection and permitted the testimony
to go to the jury for what it was worth.

Dec. 1872.]

YOUNG

v.

GODBE.

Opinion of the court.

We are not prepared to say that Godbe could not rebut
the case made by Young by showing that the affairs of the
company were so connected with the church that, as one of
the witnesses said, "he did not know the difference between
them." But the evidence on this subject should not have
been the declaration by one person of what another said.
The fact that Young had settled the account of Kimball &
Lawrence in the way he did was proper evidence to go to
the jury, if Lawrence had testified to it, but Armstrong's
statement of what Lawrence told him was pure hearsay.
Besides, the court on its own motion enlarged the scope of
the evidence by directing the jury to consider it for what it
was worth. This direction enabled the jury to take a wider
range of the subject than they otherwise would, and naturally
inclined them to consider the evidence as fixing the right of
the plaintiff to recover from the defendant in the capacity
in which he was sued.
On account of the error in admitting the testimony of
Armstrong, and in indicating the effect which the jury
should give to it, the judgment will have to be reversed.
But as the case goes back for a new trial, it is proper to
say a word upon the subject of interest, which seems more
than anything else to be the chief point of difference between
the parties. We can see no objection to the charge of the
court on this subject. If a debt ought to be paid at a particular time, and is not, owing to the default of the debtor,
the creditor is entitled to interest from that time by way of
compensation for the delay in payment. And if the account
be stated, as the evidence went to show was the case here,
interest begins to run at once.*
It is said there is no law in the Territory of Utah prescribing a rate of interest in transactions like the one in controversy in this suit, and that, therefore, no interest can be recovered. But this result does not follow. If there is no
statute on the subject, interest will be allowed by way of
damages for unreasonably withholding payment of an over* 1 American Leading Cases, 5th edition, pp. 626 and 514.

POLICE

JURY v. BRITTON.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case in the opinion.

due account. The rate must be reasonable, and conform to
the custom which obtains in the community in dealings of
this character.
JUDGMENT REVERSED, AND A VENIRE DE NOVO AWARDED.

POLICE JURY V. BRITTON.
The trustees or representative officers of a parish, county, or other local
jurisdiction, invested with the usual powers of administration in specific
matters, and the power of levying taxes to defray the necessary expenditures of the jurisdiction, have no implied authority to issue negotiable
securities, payable in future, of such a character as to be unimpeachable
in the hands of bona fide holders, for the purpose of raising money or
funding a previous debt.
ERROR

to the Circuit Court for the District of Louisiana.

Merrick and G. T. Race, for ile plaintiff in
ffessvs. _V1.TY
error;Messrs. T. J Semmes and TV. A. leloy, contra.
Mr. Justice BRADLEY stated the case, and delivered the
opinion of the court.
Britton and Koontz brought an action in the court below
against the Police Jury of the parish of Tensas, Louisiana,
to iecover the amount of four hundred and sixty coupons,
for'$6 each, due on the 1st of July, 1870, for one year's interest on four hundred and sixty bonds of $100 each. The
following is a copy of one of the bonds, and they were all
of the same date and form, differing only in number:
$100.

STATE OF LOUISIANA,

No. 423.

ST. JOSEPn, July 1, 1869.

CIj1
z arisI of icusas will pay to bearer, six Years after date or
sooner, at the pleasureof the Parish, one hundred dollars,with six per cent.
interest thereon, payable annually at the offlce of the Parish Treasurer, as per
coupons attached. This obligation is issued to fund the debt of the Parishin
accordance with an ordinance passed by the Police Jury on the 18th day of
January, 1869.
:ELI TULLIS,
President Police Jury.
R

LlEEVEewJs,
Clerk Police Jury.

i

