UNITED STATES V.

BENNETT.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

passer's right so as to make him in"fault, and to prevent his
recovery for an injury sustained by leaving the place in a
bad condition, notice must have been given of its changed
character, and that the rights of passers are terminated.
This principle is so familiar, and exists in so many forms,
that it is unnecessary to elaborate it.*
Upon the whole record we are all of the opinion that the
judgment should be
AFFIRMED.

UNITED STATES

v.

BENNETT.

The act of Congress of the 11th of January, 1868, which enacted that from
andafter its passage no distilled spirits should be withdrawn or removed
from any warehouse for the purpose of transportation, &c., until the full
tax on such spirits had been duly paid to the collector of the proper
district, and repealed all acts and parts of acts inconsistent with its provisions, had no reference to distilled spirits which had been withdrawn
from a bonded warehouse for transportation before its enactment.
Hence, when prior acts authorized the removal for the purpose of transportation of distilled spirits without payment of duties on giving band,
and enacted also that in case any such bond should become forfeited by
breach of any of its obligations, the obligors in it should pay full duties
and 50 per cent. on them besides: held, that the statute of l1th January,
1868, was not operative to prevent a recovery on a bond given before its
passage, on a removal of spirits made when the bond was given.

to the Circuit Court for the Southern District of
Ohio; the case being thus:
By the acts of July 1st, 1862,t and July 18th, 1866,t it
was made lawful to transport distilled spirits without payment of taxes, from a bonded warehouse owned by the distiller to any general bonded warehouse used under the
internal revenue laws, upon giving a "transportation bond,"
and complying with certain regulations prescribed. One
duty of the party transporting, w.as the production to the
ERROR

* 2 Addison on Torts, 141; Corby v. Hill, 4 Common Bench, N. S. 556.

t Sections 46, 47, 12 Stat. at Large, 449.
Sections 40 et seq., 14 Id. 160, et seg.

Dec. 1872.]

UNITED

STATES v. BENNETT.

Statement of the case.

collector where his distillery is, of a certificate of the collector to whose district the snirits were to be removed, that
they were duly received and stored in the warehouse or district to which they were shipped. And, by an act of March
2d, 1867,* it is enacted:
"That in case any bond, under which any distilled spirits
shall have been withdrawn from a bonded warehouse, is forfeited by failure to furnish or produce, at the proper time, the
evidence required by law or regulation, that the articles named
in the bond were duly received and actually stored in the warehouse or district to which they were shipped, or by other breach
of the obligation, the obligors in the bond shall pay the total
amount of duties upon the articles removed under the bond,
together with 60 per centum upon that amount."
These acts being in force, Bennett & Carpenter gave their
bond, dated August 19th, 1867, conditioned that they would
within thirty days from the date thereof, transport fifty barrels of distilled spirits from their bonded warehouse at
Greenville, Ohio, directly to the bonded warehouse owned
by Church Howe at Boston, Massachusetts, and deliver
them to the collector of internal revenue of that district;
and that they should, within fifteen days, produce to the
collector of internal revenue of the fourth district of Ohio
the certificate of such collector that the spirits had been duly
delivered and placed in the warehouse designated, according to law.
This bond being in existence and in the possession of the
United States, Congress, on the 11th of January, 1868, passed
an act entitled "An act to prevent frauds in the collection of
the tax on distilled spirits."t It read thus:
"Be it enacted that from and after the passage of this act, no distilled spirits shall be withdrawn or removed from any warehouse
for the purpose of transportation, redistillation, rectification,
change of package, exportation, or for any other purpose whatever, until the full tax on such spirits shall have been duly paid
to the collector of the proper district. And all acts, and- parts
4 Section 23, 14 Id. 482, 483.

t" 15 Star. at Large, 834.

UNITED STATES

v.

BENNETT.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

of acts, inconsistent with the provisions of this act, are hereby repealed."
On the 17th of April, 1869,-that is to say, about fifteen
months after the passage of the last above quoted act,-the
United States brought an action of debt on the bond which,
as already mentioned, Bennett & Carpenter had given on
the 19th of August, 1867.
The breaches assigned were that Bennett & Carpenter did
remove the spirits from their warehouse at Greenville, but
did not transport them, or, within thirty days from the date
of their obligation, complete the transportation of the same
to the bonded warehouse of Church Howe at Boston, and
deliver the same to the collector of internal revenue thereat;
and that they did not within fifteen days thereafter produe
to the collector of the fourth district of Ohio the certificate
of such collector, showing that the spirits had been duly delivered and placed in the warehouse of Church Howe, according to law.
The defendants interposed no traverse of the breaches
alleged, but pleaded that after they had failed to comply with
the conditions of their bond, to wit, on the 1st day of January, 1868, the assessor of the fourth district of Ohio assessed
Bennett & Carpenter for their non-compliance the full taxes
imposed by law on the said spirits, and that they paid to
the said collector all the taxes thus assessed. They further
pleaded that though they had not paid the penalty assessed
against them, the said Bennett & Carpenter, on the said 1st
day of January, ibr failure to comply with the conditions of
their bond, yet that before it became payable under the
assessment, the law providing for such penalty was wholly
repealed, without any saving clause. To this plea the plaintiffs demurred, and the court gave judgment for the defendants. To that judgment the United States took this
,.
writ of error.
The plea admitted, of course, the execution of the bond,
the breach of its conditions, and the non-payment of the
penalty assessed against Bennett & Carpenter for the breach.
It relied only upon the averment that the statute under which

Dec. 1872.]

UNITED STATES

v.

BENNETT.

Opinion of the court.

the bond was given was repealed before the penalty became
payable. Whether it was repealed, or not, was of course a
question of law, and was the only question in the case.
Mr. G. H. Williams, Attorney- General,and Mr. C. -H. Hill,
Assistant Attorney-General,for the plaintfif in error; Mr. H.
L. Burnett, with whom was -Mr.J. -D. Cox, contra.
Mr. JustiCe STRONG, having stated the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
It is very obvious, we think, that this case is not the case
of an entire repeal of a former act which imposed a penalty.
The act of 1868 repealed former acts only so far as they
were inconsistent with its provisions. It is needful, therefore, to note carefully what its provisions were. Plainly, it
had no reference to spirits that had been withdrawn from a
bonded warehouse for transportation to another before its
enactment. It provided a system for the future, and looked
exclusively to that. It regulated conduct from and after its
passage, and declared that thereafter no spirits should be
removed without payment of the full tax. It was only as
the prior acts might affect spirits in bonded warehouses after
its enactment that they could be inconsistent with its provisions. So far those acts were repealed. But spirits which
bad been removed before were not in its purview. We are
unable to perceive how provisions respecting transportation
in 1867 can be inconsistent with regulations respecting custody in 1868. The subjects are not the same, and the statutes
are rules of action intended for different times. We think,
therefore, that in their application to removals of distilled
spirits in 1867, the acts of Congress of 1862, 1866, and 1867
were unaffected by the act of 1868, and consequently that
the plea of the defendants was no sufficient answer to the
plaintiffs' declaration. Hence the demurrer should have
been sustained.
JUDGMENT REVERSED, aid the cause remitted for further
proceedings
IN CONFORMITY WITH THIS OPINION.

664

INSURANCE COMPANY V. LYMAN.

[Sup.

Ct.

Syllabus.

NOTE.

At the same time with the case above reported, were argued
by the same counsel and adjudged another case between the
same parties, also the case of United States v. Crane et al., and
of the United States v. Crane, Wells et al.; cases which the court
declared to be in principle exactly like the case which it had
just decided. For the reasons above therein given, the judgment in each was reversed, and the record remitted for further
proceedings in accordance with the opinion in that case.

INSURANCE COmPANY V. LYMIAN.
A., knowing that his vessel had been lost on the 8th of January, 1870, but
concealing his knowledge of the fact, applied for, on the 16th following,
and got a written policy of insurance dated on that day, on her, "lost
or not lost," from the 1st of January, 1870, to the 1st of April following. The insurance company. discovering afterwards that when he applied for this policy he knew of the loss, refused to pay. He brought
suit, setting out his written policy, but declaring on it in such a way as
was meant to show that the execution of it was but "a compliance with
and a formal statement" of an agreement to make the insurance, which
he alleged had been entered into between himself and the insurers on
the 31st of December, 1869, and before the loss. Held1. That parol proof was not admissible to show that the contract of
insurance was actually made before the loss occurred, though executed
and delivered, and paid for afterward, for that to allow such proof
would be to contradict and vary the terms of the policy in a matter
material to the contract.
2. That the terms of the contract having been reduced to writing, signed
by one party and accepted by the other at the time the premium of insurance was paid, neither party could abandon that instrument, as of no
value in ascertaining what the contract was, and resort to the verbal
negotiations which were preliminary to its execution, for that purpose.
8. That the fact that the plaintiff went to the insurance office about halfpast three o'clock in the afternoon, saw a clerk or person (whom he was
not able afterwards to identify) standing at the desk, to whom he applied
to have the vessel insured, who told him that " the secretary had gone
home, and that there was no one in the office who could do it, but said he
would speak to the secretary when he came in, in the morning, and have
it attended to the first thing," is not sufficient evidence of a completed

