FLANDERS

v. TWEED.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case in the opinion.

FLANDERS v. TWEED.
1. Where objection is made in this court that a court below allowed a clerk
and marshal there excessive fees, but the record, while showing what
fees were allowed, furnishes no means of ascertaining what services
were rendered by the clerk or marshal, nor any means of determining
whether the fees were or were not in excess of what is authorized by
law, the objection cannot be sustained.
2. The plaintiff's fees to counsel on a suit for damages against a treasury
agent for illegally seizing and retaining his property, disallowed; though
the seiztire was adjudged to have been illegal, and damages were given
accordingly.

ERROR to the Circuit Court'for the District of Lbuisiana,
in which court Tweed sued Flanders, deputy general agent
of the Treasury Department of the United States, to recover
damages caused by an alleged unlawful seizure and detention of certain cotton of his, Tweed's. Judgment being
given for the plaintiff the treasury agent appealed'.

Mr. S. F. Phillips, Solicitor-General,for the plaii~lff in error;
_Mr. 7. D. Lincoln, contra.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD stated the case, and delivered the
opinion of the court.
Tweed claims that he was the owner of four hundred and
ninety-five bales of cotton; that the defendant, on the sixth
of March, 1866, unlawfully seized and took the same into
his possession, and that he unlawfully detained the cotton
until the fifteenth of May in the same year, when he, the
plaiutiff, obtained possession of the cotton by virtue of two
writs of sequestration which he instituted in the same court
for that purpose, and that he expressly reserved the right to
recover damages for the seizure and detention of the cotton
in his petition in each of the sequestration suits; that the
cotton declined in value to the amount of thirty thousand
dollars during the period the possession of the same was unlawfully withheld from the possession of the plaintiff by the

Dec. 1872.]

FLANDERS V.

TWEED.

Statement of the case in the opinion.

defendant; that in consequence of said unlawful detention
of the cotton, the plaintiff was compelled to pay and did pay
interest to the amount of one hundred and sixty dollars, and
insurance to the amount of two hundred dollars, and storage
to the amount of one thousand dollars; that he was compelled to institute the two suits of sequestration to recover
the possession of the cotton, and that he was compelled to
pay and did pay counsel fees, clerk's fees, and marshal's fees
to the further amount of seven thousand dollars. He also
charges that the defendant, during the period he wrongfully
withheld the possession of the cotton from the plaintiff; sent
fifty bales of the same to b4e rebaled, whereby the cotton in
those bales was diminished in value to the amount of one
thousand dollars, for all which he claims damages in the
sum of thirty-nine thousand three hundred and sixty dollars.
Service was made and the defendant appeared and filed
an answer in which, among other thinigs, he alleged that he
was a deputy general agent of the Treasury Department;
that the cotton, before and at the time the writs of sequestration were issued, was in his custody and control as such
officer, and that it was held by him as an official act in administering the laws of Congress in relation to the States in
insurrection and rebellion; that the cotton, when the plaintiff caused the same to be seized, sequestered, and taken
into the custody of the officer of the court, was, by virtue
of his possession under color of those laws, in, the due and
actual custody, control, and possession of the United States.
and that the issuing and executing the writs of sequestration and taking the cotton into possession by the officer
under the same were in all respects acts of lawless and unjustifiable trespass and violence.
Evidence was introduced to the jury, and the jury, under
the instructions of the court, returned their verdict in favor
of the plaintiff, and the defendant excepted and removed the
ause into this court.
Exceptions were taken by the defendant to the instrue.
tions given by the court to the jury, but the counsel for the
United States who appear for the defendant submit the ex-

FLANDERS

v.

TWEED.

[Sup. Or.

Opinion of the court.

ceptions without argument. None of the questions presented in the exceptions are assigned for error, and in view
of the circumstances the court does not deem it necessary
to re-examine those questions.
Nothing remains for the consideration of the court except
the error assigned founded upon the verdict of the jury,
from which it appears that they found damages in favor of
the plaintiff, as follows:
For decline in cotton,
.
" insurance premiums,
" lawyer's fees,
.
" storage,
" clerk's and marshal's fee,.

.
....
....

•..

.1,000
..

$6,994 35
160 00
6,000 00

00
1,126 13
$15,280 48

Objection is made by the defendant to the allowance for
fees of counsel and to the allowance for the fees of the clerk
and marshal, but the record furnishes no means of ascertaining what services were rendered by the clerk or marshal, nor any means of determining whether the charges
allowed were or were not in excess of what is authorized
by law. Viewed in the light of those suggestions it is quite
evident that the objection to the allowance for fees to the
clerk and marshal cannot be sustained.
Cases also may be found in which it is held that counsel
fees, under certain circumstances, are a proper matter for
allowance in cases not different in principle from the one
before the court, but the rule is now well settled the other
way. Fees and costs allowed to officers therein named are
now regulated by the act of Congress passed for that purpose, which provides in its first section, that, in lieu of the
compensation previously allowed by law to attorneys, solicitors, proctors, district attorneys, clerks, marshals, witnesses,
jurors, commissioners, and printers, the following and no
other compensation shall be allowed.* Attorneys, solicitors,
* 10 Stat. at Large, 161.

Dec. 1872.]

FLANDERS V. TWEED.

Opinion of the court.

and proctors may charge their clients reasonably for their
services, in addition .to the taxable costs, but nothing can
be taxed or recovered as cost against the opposite party, as
an incident to the judgment, for their services, except the
costs and fees therein described and enumerated. They
may tax a docket fee of twenty dollars in a trial before a
jury, but they are restricted to a charge of ten dollars in
cases at law, where judgment is rendered without a jury.*
Perhaps the. leading case upon the subject is that of Day
v. Woodworlh,t which was an action of trespass quare elausunt
feqegit for pulling down a mill-dam. In the course of the
trial the plaintiff requested the presiding justice to instruct
the jury that they might allow counsel fees as damages, but'
the justice refused so to instruct the jury, and the plaintiff
excepted and the cause was removed into this court, where
it was held that neither the common law nor the statute law
had invested the jury with any such power or privilege. It
has sometimes been exercised by the courts, said Mr. Justice
Grier, but its results have not been such as to recommend
it for general adoption either by courts or legislatures.1
Suggestion may be made that the matter is not open to
re-examination, as the verdict is not a special one in form,
but further discussion of that topic at this time is unnecessary, as it was fully considered in a prior case decided at this
term.
JUDGMENT REVERSED AND M0DIFIED

by disallowing the sum

of six thousand dollars included in the verdict for counsel
fees, and the cause remanded with directions to render
judgment in favor of the plaintiff for the residue of the
verdict.
* The Baltimore, 8 Wallace, 392.

t 13 Howard, 363.
I Tease v. Huntingdon, 23 Howard, 2.

