300

STATE TAX ON FOREIGN-HELD BONDS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

CASE OF THE STATE TAX ON FOREIGN-HELD BONDS.
[IRAILROAD COMPANY V. PENNSYLVANIA.]
1. The power of taxation of a State is limited to persons, property, and
business within her jurisdiction. All taxation must relate to one of
these subjects.
2. Bonds issued by a railroad company are property in the hands of the
holders, and when held by non-residents of the State, in which the company was incorporated, they are property beyond the jurisdiction of that
State. A law of Pennsylvania, passed on the 1st of May, 1868, which
requires the treasurer of a company, incorporated and doing business in
that State, to retain five per cent. of the interest due on bonds of the
company, made and payable out of the State to non-residents of the
State, citizens of other States, and held by them, is not, therefore, a
legitimate exercise of the taxing power of the State. It is a law which
interferes between the company and the bondholder, and, under the
pretence of levying a tax, impairs the obligation of the contract between
the parties.
3. The exemption from taxation by the State of Pennsylvania of bonds thus
issued to and held by non-residents of that State, citizens of other States,
is not affected by the fact that the bonds are secured by a mortgage, executed simultaneously with them, upon property situated in that State.
A mortgage there, though in the form of a conveyance, is a mere security for a debt, and transfers no estate in the mortgaged premises. It
simply creates a lien upon them, and only confers upon the holder, or
the party for whose benefit the mortgage is given, a right to proceed
against the property mortgaged, upon a given contingency, to enforce
the payment of his demand. This right has no locality independent of
the party in whom it resides.
4. The tax laws of a State can have'no extra-territorial operation; nor can
any law of a State inconsistent with the terms of a contract, made with
or payable to parties out of the State, have any effect upon the contract
whilst it is in the hands of such parties or other non-residents of the
State.
ERROR to the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania; the case
being thus:
The plaintiff in error, in this case, the Cleveland, Painesville, and Ashtabula Railroad Company, was incorporated
by an act of the legislature of Ohio, passed in 1848, and
,authorized to construct a railroad from the city of Cleveland;
in that State, to the line of the State of Pennsylvania. Under

Dec. 1872.]

STATE TAX ON FOREIGN-HELD BONDS.

301

Statement of the case.

this act and its supplement, passed in 1850, the road was
constructed. By an act of the legislature of Pennsylvania,
passed in 1854, the company was authorized to construct a
railroad from the city of Erie, in that State, to the State line
of Ohio, so as to connect with this road from Cleveland, and
also to purchase a railroad already constructed between those
points. This grant of authority was subject to various conditions, which the company accepted, and under its provisions
the road between the points designated was constructed, or
the one already constructed was purchased, and connected
with the road from Cleveland, so that the two roads together
formed one continuous line between the cities of Cleveland
and Erie. The whole road between those places was ninetyfive and a half miles in length, of which tiventy-five miles
and a half were situated in the State of Pennsylvania, and
the rest, seventy miles, were situated in the State of Ohio.
The company, so far as it acted in Pennsylvania under the
authority of the act of her legislature, has been held by her
courts to be a separate corporation of that State, and as such
subject to her laws for the taxation of incorporated comBut there was only one board of directors who
panies.'
managed the affairs of both companies as one company, and
had the entire control of the whole road between Cleveland
and Erie.
In 1868 the funded debt of the company amounted to
$2,500,000 and was in bonds of the company secured by
three mortgages, one for $500,000, made in 1854, one for
$1,000,000, made in 1859, and one for $1,000,000, made in
1867. Each of the mortgages was executed upon the entire
road, from Erie, in Pennsylvania, to Cleveland, in Ohio, including the right of way and all the buildings and other
property of every kind connected with the road. The principal and interest of the bonds first issued were payable in
the city of Philadelphia; the principal and interest of the
other bonds were payable in the city of New York. All
the bonds were executed and delivered in Cleveland, Ohio,
* 29 Pennsylvania State, 781.

302

STATE TAX ON FOREIGN-HIELD BONDS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

and nearly all of them were issued to, and have been ever
since held and owned by non-residents of Pennsylvania and
citizens of other States. The interest was at 7 per cent.
On the 1st of May, 1868, the legislature of the State of
Pennsylvania passed an act entitled "An act to revise,
amend, and consolidate the several laws taxing corporations, brokers, and bankers ;" the eleventh section of which
provided as follows:
"The president, treasurer, or cashier of every company, except banks or savings institutions, incorporated under the laws
of this Commonwealth, doing business in this State, which pays
interest to its bondholders or other creditors, shall, before the
payment of the same, retain from said bondholders or creditors,
a tax of five per' centum upon every dollar of interest paid as
aforesaid; and shall pay over the same semi-annually, on the
first days of July and January in each and every year, to the
State treasurer for the use of the Commonwealth; and every
president, treasurer, or cashier as aforesaid shall annually, on
the thirty-first -day of each December, or within thirty days
thereafter, report to the auditor-general, under oath or affirmation, stating the entire amount of interest paid by said corporation to said creditors during the year ending on that day; and
thereupon the auditor-general and State treasurer shall proceed
to settle an account with said corporation as other accounts are
now settled by law."
The treasurer of the company, under this act, made a report in May, 1869, showing that during the previous year the
company had paid interest on its funded debt of $2,500,000,
at the rate of 7 per cent., amounting to $175,000. Upon this
report the auditor-general and State treasurer "settled an
account" against the company, finding that it owed to the
State the sum of $2336.50 for the tax on the interest which
the company had paid.
In reaching this conclusion these officers apportioned the
interest upon the debt owing by the company according to
the length of the road, assigning to the part in the State of
Pennsylvania an amount in proportion to the whole indebtedness which that part bears to the whole road. There was

Dec. 1872.]

STATE TAX ON FOREIGN-HELD BONDS.

803

Statement of the case.

no law, however, in existence at the time directing or authorizing this proceeding.
From the settlement thus made the company appealed,
under the law of the State, to the Court of Common Pleas
of one of her counties, specifying various objections to the
settlement, and among others substantially the following:
That the greater portion of the bonds of the company
having been issued upon loans made and payable out of the
State, to non-residents of Pennsylvania, citizens of other
States, and being held by them, the act in question, in authorizing the tax upon the interest stipulated in the bonds,
so far as it applied to the bonds thus issued and held, impaired the obligation of the contracts between the bondholders and the company, and is therefore repugnant to the
Constitution of the United States, and void.
The contest in the Court of Common Pleas took the form
of a regular judicial proceeding, a declaration having been
filed by the attorney-general on behalf of the State against
the company as for a debt and the company having joined
issue by a plea of non-assumpsit and payment. The Common Pleas sustained the validity of the alleged tax against
the objections of the company, and verdict and judgment
passed in favor of the State. On error to the Supreme
Court of the State the judgment was affirmed, and the case
is brought here for review under the second section of the
amendatory Judiciary Act of 1867.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania in
the case now brought here, was rested, it may be well to
say, upon a prior decision of that court; one made in liallby
v. Reading and Columbia Railroad Co.* That case was thus:
An act of the legislature of Pennsylvania of April 29th,
1844, by its 32d section, laid a tax on "mortgages, money
owing by solvent debtors, whether by promissory notes, penal
or single bill, bond or judgment;" and a following section
required the commissioners of the county to assess a tax of
three mills on every dollar of the value of property made liable
* 52 Pennsylvania State, 140.

304

STATE TAX ON FOREIGN-HELD BONDS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

by the 32d section to taxation. Several years prior to 1864,
the leading and Columbia Railroad Company, a corporation of Pennsylvania, issued bonds payable with semi-annual
interest at 7 per cent. On the 30th of April, 1864, the legislature of Pennsylvania passed an act which required the
president, &c., of any corporation which pays interest on
which a State tax is imposed, "before payment of the same
to retain the State tax," and pay the same to the treasurer
of the State. Maltby, a holder of certain coupons, due before 1864, presented them to the railroad company for payment. The company insisted on retaining the tax of three
mills on each dollar of the bonds. On suit by Maltby, a
non-resident of Pennsylvania, he asserted that the tax on
"money owing by solvent debtors" was a tax on the debt
in the bands ot its holder, in other words, in the hands of
the creditor, and not in the hands of the debtor; and that
he, the holder in this case, being a non-resident of Pennsylvania, the debt followed his person and could not be taxed;
moreover, that the tax, if it taxed the debt in the hands of
the creditor, impaired the obligation of contracts. The
Supreme Court of Pennsylvania decided all three points
against Maltby, the creditor.
Woodward, C. J., for the said court, in answering the
argument that the holder of the bond was a non-resident of
the State, and the tax on the debt was therefore illegal, and
the other argument, to wit, that the retention of the tax out
of the coupon violated the obligation of a contract, said:
"As to the non-residenceof the holder of the loan. It is undoubtedly true that the legislature of Pennsylvania cannot impose a
personal tax upon the citizen of another State, but the constant
practice is to tax property within our jurisdiction which belongs
to non-residents. Our land taxes have always been imposed

without regard to the domicile of the owner, and so have the
taxes of stocks in banks and other incorporated companies.
Stocks and loans are personal property, and the domicile of the
owner determines the rights of succession to such property,

though its situs at the time of his death determines the right of
administration, but the legislative power of taxation does not

Dec. 1872.]

STATE TAX ON FOREIGN-HELD BONDS.

305

Statement of the case.

depend upon these distinctions. There must be jurisdiction
over either the property or the person of the owner, else the
power cannot be exercised; but where the property is within
our jurisdiction, and enjoys the protection of our State government, it is justly taxable, and it is of no moment that the owner
who is required to pay the tax resides elsewhere. The duties
of sovereign and subject are reciprocal, and any person who is
protected by government in his person or property may be compelled to pay for that protection.
"The principle of taxation as the correlative of protection,
perfectly just in itself, is as applicable to a non-resident as to a
resident owner, because civil government is essential to give
value to any form of property, without regard to the ownership,
and taxation is indispensable to civil government. What would
this plaintiff's loan be worth if it were not for the franchises
conferred upon the company by the Commonwealth, franchises
which are maintained and protected by the civil and military
power of the Commonwealth? Is it not apparent that the intrinsic and ultimate value of the loan as an investment rests on
State authority-that it is the State which made it property
and preserves it as property? Then it would seem that this
kind of property, more than any other, ought to contribute to
the support of the State government. And I suppose it is upon
this ground that the legislature discriminates between corporation loans and private debts as objects of taxation. The artificial debtor, itself a creature of the legislative power, and all
its functions derived from legislative grant, is so dependent
upon the government, it lives and moves, and has its being so
entirely by the favor of the government, that not only what it
owns, but what it owes also, is thought fit to be taxed, whilst
only the possessions of the natural person, and not his debts,
are taxed.
"But, it may be said, and indeed was urged in argument, that
the plaintiff's loan as personal property follows his person, and
is property for all purposes only in the place where he has his
domicile. For some purposes, as already intimated, it is undoubtedly subject to the law of the domicile, and yet in a very high
sense it is also property here in Pennsylvania. It was admitted
in argument that corporation stocks are property here though
owned beyond our jurisdiction, and this is a necessary consequence of the final ruling which a long-vexed question in the
VoL. xv.

20

306

STATE TAX ON FOREIGN-HELD BONDS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
Supreme Court of the United States received in the case of The
Ohio and Mississippi RailroadCompany v. Wheeler,* where it was
held that stockholders in railroad companies become presumptively citizens of the State which creates the corporation.
Property has been defined to be the right or interest which one
*hasin lands or chattels, and so domestic is this peculiar species
of property that it domesticates the owner. But loans are not
stocks, and yet the loans and stock of a railroad company resemble each other in many respects. Both are subscribed under
the authority of a special law, and both are so far capital that
they are employed for the same general purposes. The certificate of stock, which the plaintiff as a citizen of Rhode Island
may hold for shares in this company, is mere paper evidence of
property existing here; it is not the thing signified, it is only
evidence of it. Is the bond which the plaintiff holds anything
more? He cannot enforce it where he lives; he must come here
to gather its fruits. It is founded upon and derives its value
from a mortgage, but that mortgage is here, and the franchises
and properties which the mortgage binds are here within our
jurisdiction. The bond signifies his right to receive so much
money out of the mortgaged estate, but that estate not only belongs to our jurisdiction, but was in part created by our authority, and the power to raise the mortgage, like all the franchises
of the company, was confbrred by State authority.
"Now, although loans and stocks are distinguishable for many
purposes, yet the legislature committed no very great solecism
in treating loans as taxable property within our jurisdiction.
'The tax may be thought to be extravagant, especially in view
of the taxation to which the owner is exposed in the place of
his residence, but that is a consideration for legislative attention. The point we rule upon this part of the case is, that corporation loans, though in some sense mere debts, are like moneys
at interest, taxable as property, and moneys at interest have
long been taxed in Pennsylvania.
"Then, has the company the right to deduct the tax from the coupons? This, it is said, violates the faith of the obligation, and
renders all such legislation void. How far modern tax laws
shall be permitted to impair and alter private contracts is a
great question, which must be decided ultimately by the Su* 1 Black, 286.

Dec. 1872.]

STATE TAX ON FOREIGN-HELD BONDS.

307

Argument against the tax.

preme Court of the United States. I have my own private
opinions, which would probably be found to differ from a majority of this court. Perhaps the sound conclusion is that governmental taxation, a thing always to be anticipated when contracts are made, does not impair the obligation of contracts,
within the meaning of the constitutional inhibition. If this be
conceded as a principle, then the mode of collecting the tax,
whether by a government agent, a debtor corporation or manufacturer, is mere machinery, and involves no principle whatever. For the present, therefore, and speaking for the court, I
lay it down that the acts of Assembly, to which I have referred,
are constitutional and valid; that they tax the loan as property
found here in Pennsylvania, and that they appoint the debtor
corporation the collector of that tax for the benefit of the State
government."
Messrs. J. E. Gowen and J. T. Simonton, for the plaintiff in
e,1'O:
I. It being admitted in Maltby's case, above quoted, "that
the legislature of Pennsylvania cannot impose a personal
tax upon the citizens of another State," that is to say, we
suppose, cannot impose on such citizens any tax assessed
against them personally, the question is, whether debt due
from a citizen of Pennsylvania to a citizen of New York is
either actually or technically situated within the limits of
the State of Pennsylvania? The Supreme Court of Pennsylvania holds that in the case of bonds issued by railroads,
incorporated in Pennsylvania, it is. Now, of course, a debt
has no actual or tangible siluis; and the technical silis must
necessarily be determined by sonic techfuical rule, maxim,
or theory. But what rule, theory, or maxim refers the situs
of a debt, viewed as personal property, to the domicile of
the debtor and not that of the creditor ? The generai rule
as to the situs of personal property undoubtedly is that it
follows the person of the owner. Mobilia personam sequuntur
is a legal axiom. No court more fully than th-e Supreme
Court of Pennsylvania has declared, that the domicile of
the owner is, fbr all purposes of taxation, the situs of choses
in action and other intangible personal property. In McKeen

308

STATE TAX

ON FOREIGN-HELD BONDS.

[SuP.

at.

Argument against the tax.

v. The County of Northampton,*' it was held that shares of
stock in a corporation of another State, held by a citizen
of Pennsylvania, were taxable in Pennsylvania. The court
say :
"The defendant below being a citizen of this State, it is clear
he is subject personally to its power to tax, and that all his
property accompanying his person, or falling legitimately within
the territorial jurisdiction of the State, is equally within the
authority. The interest Which an owner of shares has in the
stock of a corporation is personal. Whithersoever he goes it
accompanies him, and when he dies his domicile governs its
succession."
So in Short's Estate.t There Mr. Short, a resident of Philadelphia, owned a vast sufii in stocks and corporations of
other States, and bonds of the State of Kentucky, and a
bank deposit in New York, but all were held to be subject
to the Pennsylvania collateral inheritance tax. Gibson, C.J.,
says for the court:
"That Mr. Short's property out of the State subjected him to
personal liability for tax assessed on it here in his lifetime is
not to be doubted. The general rule is that the situs of personal property follows the domicile of the owner of it, insomuch
that even a creditor cannot reach it in a foreign country, except
by attachment or some other process provided by the local law;
certainly not by a personal action without appearance or something equivalent to it."
It may be that personal property which has an actual situs
cannot be withdrawn from the taxing powers of the State
within whose jurisdiction it is actually situated, but this can
have no application to the intangible property known as
ehoses in action, which have no actual situs, and can have no
legal situs other than that of their owner. If it is a principle
of general jurisprudence that a debt is property, having a
taxable situs where the debtor resides, what are the consequences? Necessarily that the extent to which the taxing
* 49 Pennsylvania State, 519.

"f 16 Id. 63.

Dec. 1872.]

STATE TAX ON FOREIGN-HELD BONDS.

809

Argument against the tax.

power of a State may be applied to debts due from its citizens to non-residents can have no limit, except that of the

debts themselves. "It is admitted," said Marshall, 0. J., in
HeiCulloch v. The Slate of Maryland,* "that the power of taxing the people and their property is essential to the very
existence of the government, and may be legitimately exercised on the objects to which it is applicable, to the utmost
extent to which the government may choose to carry it.
The only security against the abuse of this power is found
in the government itself. In imposing a tax, the legislature
acts upon its constituents. This is, in general, a sufficient
security against erroneous and oppressive taxation." But
the legislature does not act upon its constituents when it
taxes the income of non-resident foreigners. They have
not "the influence of the constituents over their representatives," referred to by. Chief Justice Marshall; and it is not
going too far to say that that influence is not likely to be
exerted against the imposition of a tax which relieves the
constituents themselves from a burden which they would
otherwise have to bear. Considerations of comity would
avail but little against the material advantages offered by
such a system of taxation. Retaliation by other States or
sovereignties, if effective, might induce a conviction of its
impolicy, if not of its injustice; but other States or sovereignties might not be in a position to retaliate with effect.
The State of Pennsylvania would hardly be deterred from
taxing the money due by her corporations to citizens of
Great Britain, by the levy of a retaliatory tax in Great
Britain upon all money due by British corporations to citizens of Pennsylvania. But it is especially in a country like
ours-composed of so many States independent in sovereignty, but yet so closely connected by the commercial
relations of their citizens-that the evils of this new theory
of taxation would be most severely felt. Could New York
be expected to submit patiently to taxation by Pennsylvania
of all money owing by citizens of the latter State to citizens
* 4 Wheaton, 428.

STATE TAX ON FoLEIGN-IELD BONDS.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the tax.

of the former? What would be thought of an attempt on
the part of the State of Pennsylvania to hold citizens of
New York personally responsible for the payment of taxes
assessed on the debts due them by the citizens of Pennsylvania?
When we remember, too, that the choses in action, the
debts due to a citizen, are always taxable in the jurisdiction
within which he is domiciled, the taxation of this species of
property in other jurisdictions not only imposes an intolerable burden upon the taxpayer, but impairs the resources
from which the revenue of the State of which he is a citizen
is derived. The bonds of corporations of other States form
no inconsiderable portion of the wealth of citizens of many
of the States; but this wealth may be destroyed by taxation
in the States where the business of the corporations is carried on. Nor is such a result improbable. Many corporations owe their corporate existence to the concurrent legislation of several States; and if each State should tax the
non-resident creditors of the corporation, even at the same
rate at which resident creditors are taxed, the accumulation
of taxes might well destroy the value of the property taxed.
The Philadelphia, Wilmington, and Baltimore Railroad Company is chartered by the States of Pennsylvania, Maryland,
and Delaware. It has issued many bonds at 6 per cent. interest. Those bonds are held to a large extent in Massachusetts. Suppose that each of the three States just named
should require a tax of 2 per cent. on the par value of the
principal of these loans, to be deducted from the 6 per cent.
interest due to the Massachusetts holders, what would be
the value of their securities, either to themselves or to the
State of Massachusetts ? If every State within whose territory one or more of the numerous railroads worked by the
Pennsylvania Railroad Company happen to lie, should insist
upon its right to levy a tax upon the interest paid by that
corporation to its non-resident creditors, as an equivalent for
the protection afforded by the laws of the State to the operations of the company, the officers of the company might,
after retaining the whole interest from the creditors, be

Dec. 1872.]

STATE TAX ON FOREIGN-nELD BONDS.

311

Argument against the tax.

compelled to solve the difficult problem of dividing the
whole into parts greater in the aggregate than the whole.
IL The section of the act in question of Pennsylvania, so
far as it provides for the collection of a tax from interest
due to citizens and residents of other States, conflicts with
the clause of the Constitution which declares that "the citizens of each State shall be entitled to all privileges and immunities of citizens in the several States."*
In Ward v. Maryldand,t the right "to be exempt from any
higher taxes or excises than are imposed by the State upon
its own citizens," is said to be one of the privileges and immunities "plainly and unmistakably" secured and protected
by this clause of the Constitution. Now does this act really
subject the citizens of other States to taxation, from which
the citizens of Pennsylvania are exempt? Prini facie, this
might not seem to be so; since the act requires the tax to be
collected from all creditors to whom.interest is payable by
corporations, without regard to their citizenship or residence. But this equality is apparent only; since, unlike the
Pennsylvania creditors, the creditors who are citizens of
other States receive no equivalent for the taxes which they are
compelled to pay, and are taxed on account of their ownership of property which is neither actually nor legally situate
in the State of Pennsylvania. The civil rights of a New
York creditor of a Pennsylvania corporation are not protected by the State of Pennsylvania, and why should he be
required to contribute a part of the expense of maintaining
the government of that State? It is idle to say that the
State of Pennsylvania accords to him the right to sue in her
courts; a similar right is accorded to foreigners by every
civilized community on the face of the earth; but no one
ever supposed that non-resident foreigners were thereby
rendered taxable under the laws of each community which
recognized such a right.
The levy of a tax by the British government upon either
the persons or property of citizens of the United States, as
*

ection 2, Article 4.

t" 2 Wallace, 418.

STATE TAX ON

FOREIGN-HELD BONDS.

[Sup. Ot.

Argument against the tax.

an equivalent for the right of citizens of the United States
to sue in the courts of Great Britain, would hardly be submitted to; and yet the wrong done would not be of so aggravated a character as that which would result from the imposition of a tax by the State of Pennsylvania upon the persons
or property of the citizens of other States of this Union for
the privilege of suing in tfie courts of Pennsylvania. This
must be apparent, when it is considered that the Constitution
of the United States, in securing to the citizens of each State
all the privileges and immunities of citizens in the several
States, undoubtedly secures the right to sue in the courts of
the respective States; that this right can neither be withheld
by any State, nor made the pretext for taxing the persons
upon whom it has been conferred, and that citizens of other
States are not obliged to pursue their claims to the courts of
the respective States in which their debtors reside, but can
always have ample remedy in the courts of the United States.
It is not of course meant to be contended that the property
of non-residents actually within the State should be exempt
from taxation. A citizen of New York has no reason to
complain if his real estate or his merchandise in Pennsylvania is taxed to support the government which protects it.
He receives an equivalent for the tax; and if the ownership
of the property does not entitle him to representation in the
legislature of Pennsylvania, it is because property in Pennsylvania, no matter to whom belonging, is not entitled to representation. But if, as we submit is true, a debt due from a
citizen of Pennsylvania is neither actually nor theoretically
property in Pennsylvania, the taxation of such a debt as
against a New York creditor is taxation without protection
of either the taxpayer's person or property, and without
representation; and no citizen of Pennsylvania is, under
% such circumstances, taxed by the laws of Pennsylvania.
Ill. The section, so far as it provides for the collection of
a tax from interest due to citizens and residents of other
States, impairs the obligation of the contracts between the
railroad company and such citizens and residents of other
States, and is therefore repugnant to the Constitution of the

Dec. 1872.]

STATE TAX ON FOREIGN-HELD BONDS.

313

Argument against the tax.

United States and void. It requires the officers of the debtor
corporation to withhold a part of the interest stipulated to
be paid to such citizens of other States, and to pay the same
into the treasury of the State.
A tax law, therefore, which does accomplish this result
impairs the obligation of a contract, and is prohibited by
the Constitution, and the only question in the case is, was
the non-resident citizen of another State, whose rights under
the contract are affected, so situated with relation to the lawmaking power, that he was bound to anticipate, and contract
with reference to, the passage of such a law?
It may well be that all citizens of any given State, in enterin, into contracts to be performed within such State, are
bound to have regard to the laws of the State, then in force,
which relate to or bear upon the subject; as well as to the
fact that there are certain classes of laws, such as tax laws
and police laws, which may be constitutionally applied to
prior contracts; but a citizen of one State, entering into a
contract lawful in his own State, which is to be performed there,
is not bound in contracting to have any reference to the
laws of another State, present or future, whether they be tax
laws or laws of any other kind.
An illustration of this principle is given in the effect of
State insolvent laws. Thus, citizens of a given State, entering into a contract to be performed in such State, are bound
by the fact of the existence of an insolvent law; but one who
is a citizen of another State, even though contracting in the
State where such law exists, with one of its citizens, is not
bound to have any regard to such law, and his rights cannot
be affected by it, owing to the clause in the Constitution of
the United States prohibiting any State from passing any
law impairing the obligation of contracts. The State law
has no jurisdiction over him, and his contract is not affected
by it, because he is not a citizen of such State. This was
adjudged in Ogden v. Sawnders,* and in Baldwin v. Hale.t
In Baldwin v. Hale the principle of Ogden v. Saunders was
*12

W'heaton, 213.

t- I Wallace, 223.

314

STATE TAX ON FOREIGN-HELD BONDS.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the tax.

affirmed and applied to the case of a debt not only contracted,
but expressly made payable, in the State in which the debtor
resided, and where he afterwards obtained his discharge as
an insolvent.
It would seem plain that the principle oil which these
decisions are based applies a foriori to State tax laws. The
argument that the obligation of a contract should be regulated by the law of the place where the contract was made,
and where one of the contracting parties resides, and still
continues to reside, is not without plausibility. But what
can be said in favor of extending the operation of the tax
laws of a State to citizens of other States who happen to
have debtors residing in the State which imposes the tax?
Such a theory has no foundation, either in the practice of
civilized nations or in the speculative opinions of juridical
writers.
IV. But it is said, by the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania,
that though the bondholder is beyond the jurisdiction of the
State, his property, when the bond is seciured by a mortgage,
is within it.
But he does not own the property of the corporation
which owes him the money, nor anything tlat has an actual
situs within the State. The property mortgaged belongs to
the debtor. It is as well settled as anything can be, in Pennsylvania, whatever the doctrine may be elsewhere, that a
mortgtge is only a lien or incumbrance on the land mortgaged, and that the mortgagee has no estate in the land.
If the non-resident creditor own neither the land bound
nor the money lent, but merely the bond and mortgage, the
choses in action which follow the person of the owner, and
are actually in his possession without the State, we submit
that he owns nothing within the jurisdiction of the State.
Neither does he need, as has been argued, to invoke the
aid of the courts of the State to reap the fruits of his security in case of the non-payment of the interest or principal of the bonds. The courts of the United States have
ample jurisdiction and power to give the non-resident bondholder all the judicial aid he may need.

Dec. 1872.]

STATE TAX ON FOREIGN-HELD BONDS.

815

Argument in favor of the tax.

These considerations have led the courts of those States
where this question has been raised, to decide in favor of
the position taken by the plaintiff in error.*
V. The case of Maltby v. Reading and Columbia Railroad,
if it were rightly decided and of authority in this court, has
slight bearing on the question of a violation of a contract.
There the law laying the tax was in force when the bond
was issued. Here it was not. The tax here is not laid under
the act there referred to of 1844 (the three mills tax), but
under a different law, one of 1868, and passed after the bond
was issued. The tax is a tax of 5 per cent. on the interest;
which, on a 7 per cent. bond, which these bonds were, gives
a different result from one of three mills on the dollar of
principal.
Messrs. F. Carroll Brewster and J. W. M. Vewlin, contra:
The opinion of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania in
Mlaltby's case presents our views so fbrcibly that all that we
can say will add little to its argument. Still we may say:
1. The place of residence of the bondholders is quite
unimportant. The tax does not discriminate against nonresidents, and further, it is levied neither on the securitythe road-nor on the chose in action-the bond,-but upon
the interest payable by the defendant, a Pennsylvania corporation, which it is directed to withhold and pay to the
State. This interest-money is in the actual possession of
the corporation, and it is undeniable that it might be made
a garnishee and the money be attached in its hands by the
creditors of the bondholders. Even if the tax were directly
upon the chose in action the proposition advanced by the
plaintiff in error, that the thing taxed has no situs of its
own, but follows the domicile of the non-resident holder
and cannot be taxed elsewhere, is founded on a fiction of
law which is not applicable to the questions of taxation.
* See State of Nevada v. Earl, 1 Nevada State, 397; Davenport v. The
Mississippi and Missouri Railroad Co., 12 Iowa, 539; The State v. Ross, 3
Zabriskie, 517; People v. Eastman, 25 California, 603.

STATE TAX ON FOREIGN-HIELD BONDS.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in favor of the tax.

In Green v. Van Busldrk,* this court, speaking of the situs
of personal property, said:
"But this fiction is by no means of universal application, and

as Judge Story says, 'yields whenever it is necessary for the
purpose of justice that the actual situs of the thing should be
examined; .. .. and always yields to laws for attaching the
estate of non-residents, because such laws necessarily assume
that property has a situs entirely distinct from the owner's
domicile."
In Catlin v. Jullt
one H., who resided in New York,
owned certain property, consisting of debts due from solvent
debtors, resident in Vermont, evidenced by promissory
notes; and he appointed the plaintiff, who was also a resident of Vermont, his agent, to control and manage the
property, and collect and re-lend from time to time, as he
should think proper, and allowed the plaintiff a specified
salary for so doing. It was held that the legislature of this
State had power to enact a law, subjecting property so
situated to taxation, and that the property was taxable
under the statute of the State. The court say:
"It is insisted that the property of Hammond, of which the
plaintiff has the care, as his agent, cannot be considered as
legally existing in this State, and that this is an attempt to tax

property when neither the property nor the owner is within the
State, and within the jurisdiction of our laws. We think, however, that this doctrine is quite too refined and artificial to be
put to any practical use.
"It is undoubtedly true that, by the general acknowledged
principles of public law, personal chattels follow the person of
the owner, and that upon his death they are to be distributed
according to the law of his domicile, and in general any convey* 7 W4llace, 139; and see St. Louis v. The Ferry Company, 11 Wallace,
428.
t 21 Vermont, 158; and see Hoyt v. Tax Commissioners, 23 New York,
226,230, p. 232-3; City of New Albany v. Meekin, 3 Indiana, 481; Faxton v.
McCosh, 12 Iowa, 529; Taylor, Admr. v. St. Louis County Court, 47 -issouri, 594; People v. Home Insurance Company, 29 California, 533; People
v. Gardner, 51 Barbour, 352.

Dec. 1872.]

STATE TAX ON FOREIGN-HELD BONDS.

817

Opinion of the court.

ance of chattels, good by the law of his own domicile, will be
good elsewhere. But this rule is merely a legal fiction, adopted
from considerations of general convenience and policy, for the
benefit of commerce, and to enable persons to dispose of their
property at their decease, agreeably to their wishes, without
being embarrassed by their want of knowledge in relation to
the laws of the country where the same is situated. But even
this doctrine is to be received and understood with this limitation,
that there is no positive law of the country where the property
is in fact, which contravenes the law of his domicile, for if there
is,
the law of the owner's domicile must yield to the law of the
State where the property is in fact situate. We do not consider
this doctrine in relation to the situs of personal chattels, and
relating to its transfbr and distribution, as at all conflicting
with the actual jurisdiction of the State where it is situate, over
it, or with their right to subject it, in common with other property of the State, to share the burden of the government by
taxation."
2. The _Pennsylvania acts do not impair the obligation of the
contract of the company with its bondholders. The corporation
pays no less interest, but a part of it is diverted to the
State as a tax on the bondholder, who is made, in common
with the citizens of the State, to pay for the value given
to his property here through the grant of the franchises
of the corporation and the protection afforded to it by the
State.
Mr. Justice FIELD, after stating the facts of the case,
delivered the opinion of the court as follows:
The question presented in this case for our determination is whether the eleventh section of the act of Pennsylvania of May, 1868, so far as it applies to the interest on
bonds of the railroad company, made and payable out of the
State, issued to and held by non-residents of the State, citizens of other States, is a valid and constitutional exercise
of the taxing power of the State, or whether it is an interference, under the name of a tax, with the obligation of the
contracts between the non-resident bondholders and the
corporation. ' If it be the former, this court cannot arrest

318

STATE TAX ON FOREIGN-HELD BONDS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the judgment of the State court; if it be the latter, the
alleged tax is illegal, and its enforcement can be restrained.
The case before us is similar in its essential particulars to
that of The Railroad Company v. Jackson, reported in 7th
Wallace. There, as here, the company was incorporated
by the legislatures of two States, Pennsylvania and M{aryland,
under the same name, and its road extended in a continuous
line from Baltimore in one State to Sunbury in the other.
And the company had issued bonds for a large amount,
drawing interest, and executed a mortgage for their security
upon its entire road, its franchises and fixtures, including
the portion lying in both States. Coupons for the different
instalments of interest were attached to each bond. There
was no apportionment of the bonds to any part of the road
lying in either State. The whole road was bound for each
bond. The law of Pennsylvania, as it then existed, imposed
a tax on money owii;g by solyent debtors of three mills on
the dollar of the principal, payable out of the interest. An
alien resident in Ireland was the holder of some of the bonds
of the railroad company, and when lie presented his coupons
for the interest due thereon, the company claimed the right
to deduct the tax imposed by the law of Pennsylvania, and
also an alleged tax to the United States. The non-resident
refused to accept the interest with these deductions, and
brought suit for the whole amount in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the District of Maryland. That court,
the chief justice presiding, instructed the jury that if the
plaintiff, when he .purchased the bonds, was a British subject, resident in Ireland, and still resided there, he was
entitled to recover the amount of the coupons without deduction. The verdict and judgment were in accordance
with this instruction, and the case was brought here for
review.
This court held that the tax under the law of Pennsylvania could not be sustained, as to permit its deduction from
the coupons held by the plaintiff would be giving effect to
the acts of her legislature upon property and effects lying beyond her jurisdiction. The reasoning by which the learned

Dec. 1872.]

STATE TAX ON FOREIGN-HELD BONDS.

'319

Opinion of the court.

justice, who delivered the opinion of the court, reached this
conclusion, may be open, perhaps, to some criticism. It is
not perceived how the ihet that the mortgage given fbr the
security of the bonds in that case covered that portion of the
road which extended into Maryland could afect the liability
of the bonds to taxation. If the entire road upon which the
mortgage was given had been in another State, and the bonds
had been held by a resident of Pennsylvania, they would
have been taxable under her laws in that State. It was the
fact that the bonds were held by a non-resident which
justified the language used, that to permit a deduction of
the tax from the interest would be giving efect to the laws
of Pennsylvania upon property beyond her jurisdiction, and
not the fact assigned by the learned justice. The decision
is, nevertheless, authority for the doctrine that property
lying beyond the jurisdiction of the State is not a subject
upon which her taxing power can be legitimately exercised.
Indeed, it would seem that no adjudication should be necessary to establish so obvious a proposition.
The power of taxation, however vast in its character and
searching in its extent, is necessarily limited to subjects
within the jurisdiction of the State. These subjects are persons, property, and business. Whatever form taxation may
assume, whether as duties, imposts, excises, or licenses, it
must relate to one of these subjects. It is not possible to
conceive of any other, though as applied to them, the taxation may be exercised in a great variety of ways. It may
touch property in every shape, in its natural condition, in its
manufactured form, and in its various transmutations. And
the amount of the taxation may be determined by the value
of the property, or its use, or its capacity, or its productiveness. It may touch business in the almost infinite forms in
which it is conducted, in professions, in commerce, in manufactures, and in transportation. Unless restrained by provisions of the Federal Constitution, the power of the State as
to the mode, form, and extent of taxation is unlimited, where
the subjects to which it applies are within her jurisdiction.
Corporations may be taxed, like natural persons, upon

320

STATE TAX ON FOREIGN-HELD BONDS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

their property and business. But debts owing by corporations, like debts owing by individuals, are not property of
the debtors in any sense; they are obligations of the debtors,
and only possess value in the hands of the creditors. With
them they are property, and in their hands they may be
taxed. To call debts property of the debtors is simply to
misuse terms. All the property there can be in the nature
of things in debts of corporations, belongs to tlae creditors,
to whom they are payable, and follows their domicile, wherever that may be. Their debts can have no locality separate
from the parties to whom they are due. This principle
might be stated in many different ways, and supported by
citations from numerous adjudications, but no number of
authorities, and no forms of expression could add anything
to its obvious truth, which is recognized upon its simple
statement.
The bonds issued by the railroad company in this case are
undoubtedly property, but property in the hands of the
holders, not property of the obligors.

So far as they are

held by non-residents of the State, they are property beyond
the jurisdiction of the State. The law which requires the
treasurer of the company to retain five per cent. of the interest due to the non-resident bondholder is not, therefore, a
legitimate exercise of the taxing power. It is a law which
interferes between the company and the bondholder, and
under the pretence of levying a tax commands the company
to withhold a portion of the stipulated interest and pay it
over to the State. It is a law which thus impairs the obligation of the contract between the parties. The obligation
of a contract depends upon its terms and the means which
the law in existence at the time affords for its enforcement.
A law which alters the terms of a contract by imposing new
conditions, or dispensing with those expressed, is a law which
impairs its obligation, for, as stated on another occasion, such
a law relieves the parties from the moral duty of performing
the original stipulations of the contract, and it prevents their
legal enforcement. The Act of Pennsylvania of May 1st,
1868, falls within this description. It directs the treasurer

Dec. 1872.]

STATE TAX ON FOREIGN-HELD BONDS.

321

Opinion of the court.

of every incorporated company to retain from the interest
stipulated to its bondholders five per cent. upon every dollar and pay it into the treasury of the Commonwealth. It
thus sanctions and commands a disregard of the express provisions of the contracts between the company and its creditors. It is only one of many cases where, under the name
of taxation, an oppressive exaction is made without constitutional warrant, amounting to little less than an arbitrary
seizure of private property. It is, in fact, a forced contribution levied upon property held in other States, where it is
subjected, or may be subjected, to taxation upon an estimate
of its full value.
The case of Jifallby v. The Reading and Colunmbia Railroad
Company, decided by the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania
in 1866, was referred to by the Common Pleas in support of
its ruling, and is relied upon by counsel in support of the
tax in question. The decision in that case does go to the
full extent claimed, and holds that bonds of corporations
held by non-residents are taxable in that State. But it is
evident from a perusal of the opinion of the court that the
decision proceeded upon the idea that the bond of the nonresident was itself property in the State because secured by
a mortgage on property there. "It is undoubtedly true,"
said the court, "that the legislature of Pennsylvania cannot
impose a personal tax upon the citizen of another State, but
the constant practice is to tax property within our jurisdiction which belongs to non-residents." And again: "There
must be jurisdiction over either the property or the person
of the owner, else the power cannot be exercised; but when
the property is within our jurisdiction, and enjoys the protection of our State government, it is justly taxable, and it
is of no moment that the owner, who is required to pay the
tax, resides elsewhere." There is no doubt of the correctness of these views. But the court then proceeds to state
that the principle of taxation as the correlative of protection
is as applicable to a non-resident as to a resident; that the
loan to the non-resident is made valuable by the franchises
which the company derived from the Commonwealth, and'
VOL. xv.

21

322

STATE TAX

ox

FOREIGN-HELD BONDS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

as an'investment rests upon State authority, and, therefore,
ought to contribute to the support of the State government.
It also adds that, though the loan is for some purposes subject to the law of the domicile of the holder, "yet, in a very
high sense," it is also property in Pennsylvania, observing,
in support of this position, that the holder of a bond of the
company could not enforce it except in that State, and that
the mortgage given for its security was upon property and
franchises within her jurisdiction. The amount of all which
is this: that the State which creates and protects a corporation ought to have the right to tax the loans negotiated by
it, though taken and held by non-residents, a proposition
which it is unnecessary to controvert. The legality of a tax
of that kind would not be questioned if in the charter of the
company the imposition of the tax were authorized, and in
the bonds of the company, or its certificates of loan, the liability of the loan to taxation were stated. The tax in that
case would be in the nature of a license tax for negotiating
the loan, for in whatever manner made payable it would
ultimately fall on the company as a condition of effecting
the loan, and parties contracting with the company would
provide for it by proper stipulations. But there is nothing
in the observations of the court, nor is there anything in the
opinion, which shows that the bond of the non-resident was
property in the State, or that the non-resident had any property in the State which was subject to taxation within the
principles laid down by the court itself, which we have cited.
The property mortgaged belonged entirely to the company, and so far as it was situated in Pennsylvania was taxable there. If taxation is the correlative of protection, the
taxes which it there paid were the correlative for the protection which it there received. And neither the taxation
of the property, nor its protection, was augmented or diminished by the fact that the corporation was in debt or free
from debt. The property in no sense belonged to the nonresident bondholder or to the mortgagee of the company.
The mortgage transferred no title; it created only a lien
upon the property. Though in form a conveyance, it was

Dec. 1872.]

STATE TAX ON FOREGN-HELD BONDS.

323

Opinion of the court.

both at law and in equity a mere security for the debt.
That such is the nature of a mortgage in Pennsylvania has
been frequently ruled by her highest court. In Witmer's
Appeal- the court said: "The mortgagee has no estate in
the land, any more than the judgment creditor. Both have
liens upon it, and no more than liens." And in that State
all possible interests in lands, whpther vested or contingent,
are subject to levy and sale on execution, yet it has been
held, on the ground that a mortgagee has no estate in the
lands, that the mortgaged premises cannot be taken in execution for his debt. In Rickert v. Madeira,t the court said:
"A mortgage must be considered either as a chose in action
or as giving title to the land and vesting a real interest in
the mortgagee. In the latter case it would be liable to execution; in the former it would not, as it would fall within
the same reason as a judgment bond or simple contract. If
we should consider the interest of the mortgagee as a real
interest, we must carry the principle out and subject it to a
dower and to the lien of a judgment; and that it is but a
chose in action, a mere evidence of debt, is apparent from
the whole current of decisions."I
Such being the character of a mortgage in Pennsylvania,
it cannot be said, as was justly observed by counsel, that the
non-resident holder and owner of a bond secured by a mortgage in that State owns any real estate there. A mortgage
being there a mere chose in action, it only confers upon the
holder, or the party for whose benefit the mortgage is given,
a right to proceed against the property mortgaged, upon a
given contingency, to enforce, by its sale, the payment of
his demand.

This right has no locality independent of the

party in whom it resides. It may undoubtedlybe taxed by
the State when held by a resident therein, but when held
by a non-resident it is as much beyond the jurisdiction of
the State as the person of the owner.
It is undoubtedly true that the actual situs of personal
45 Pennsylvania State, 463.
f 1 iRawle, 329.
: Wilson v. Shoenberger's Executors, 31 Pennsylvania State, 295.

324

STATE TAX ON FOREIGN-HELD BONDS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

property which has a visible and tangible existence, and not
the domicile of its owner, will, in many cases, determine the
State in which it may be taxed. The same thing is true of
public securities consisting of State bonds and bonds of municipal bodies, and circulating notes of banking institutions;
the former, by general usage, have acquired the character
of, and are treated as, property in the place where they are
found, though removed from the domicile of the owner; the
latter are treated and pass as money wherever they are. But
other personal property, consisting of bonds, mortgages, and
debts generally, has no situs independent of the domicile of
the owner, and certainly can have none where the instruments, as in the present case, constituting the evidences of
debt, are not separated from the possession of the owners.
Cases were cited by counsel on the argument from the decisions of the highest courts of several States, which accord
with the views we have expressed. In Davenport v. The Mississippi and lMissouri Railroad Company,* the question arose
before the Supreme Court of Iowa whether mortgages on
property in that State held by non-residents could be taxed
under a law which provided that all property, real and personal, within the State, with certain exceptions not material
to the present case, should. be subject to taxation, and the"
court said:
"Both in law and equity the mortgagee has only a chattel
interest. It is true that the situs of the property mortgaged
is within the jurisdiction of the State, but, the mortgage itself being personal property, a chose in action, attaches to
the person of the owner. It is agreed by the parties that the
owners and holders of the mortgages are non-residents of
the State. If so, and the property of the mortgage attaches
to the person of the owner, it follows that these mortgages
are not property within the State, and if not they are not
the subject of taxation."
In People v. Eastman,t the question arose before the Supreme Court of California whether a judgment of record in
* 12 Iowa, 639.

t 25 California, 603.

Dec. 1872.]

STATE TAX

ON

FOREIGN-HELD BONDS.

325

Opinion of the court.

Mariposa County upon the foreclosure of a mortgage upon
property situated in that county could be taxed there, the
owner of the judgment being a resident of San Francisco,
and the law of California requiring all property to be taxed
in the county where situated; and it was held that it was
not taxable there. "The mortgage," said the court, "has
no existence independent of the thing secured by it; a payment of the debt discharges the mortgage. The thing secured is intangible, and has no silus distinct and apart from
the residence of the holder. It pertains to and follows the
person. The same debt may, at the same time, be secured
by a mortgage upon land in every county in the State; and
if the mere fact that the mortgage exists in a particular
county gives the property in the mortgage a situs subjecting
it to taxation in that county, a party, without further legislation, might be called upon- to pay the tax several times,
for the lien for taxes attaches at the same time in every
county in the State, and the mortgage in one county may be
a different one from that in another, although the debt secured is the same."
Some adjudications in the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania
were also cited on the argument, which appear to recognize
doctrines inconsistent with that announced in Maltby v.
Reading and Columbia RailroadCompany, particularly the case
of MJleKeen v. The County of Northampton,* and the case of
Short's .Estale,t but we do not deem it necessary to pursue
the matter further. We are clear that the tax cannot be
sustained; that the bonds, being held by non-residents of
the State, are only property in their hands, and that they
are thus beyond the jurisdiction of the taxing power of the
State. Even where the bonds are held by residents of the
State the retention by the company of a portion of the stipulated interest can only be sustained as a m6de of collecting
a tax upon that species of property in the State. When the
property is out of the State there can then be no tax upon it
for which the interest can be retained. The tax laws of Penn
* 49 Pennsylvania State, 519.;

t 16 Id. 63.

326

STATE TAX ON FOREIGN-HELD BONDS.

[Sup. Ct.

Note.

sylvania can have no extra-territorial operation; nor can any
law of that State inconsistent with the terms of a contract,
made with or payable to parties out of the State, have any
effect upon the contract whilst it is in the hands of such
parties or other non-residents. The extra-territorial invalidity of State laws discharging a debtor from his contracts
with citizens of other States, even though made and payable
in the State after the passage of such laws, has been judicially determined by this court.* A like invalidity must,
on similar grounds, attend State legislation which seeks to
change the obligation of such contracts in any particular,
and on stronger grounds where the contracts are made and
payable out of the State.
JUDGMENT REVERSED,

proceedings,

and the cause remanded for further
IN CONFORMITY WITH THIS OPINION.

Mr. Justice DAVIS, with whom concurred Justices CLIFFORD, MILLER, and HUNT, dissenting."t

NOTE.

AT the same time with the adjudication as to the tax in the
preceding case was adjudged the validity of the tax in the cases
of two other railroad companies, to wit: The Pittsburg, Fort
Wayne, and Chicago; and the Delaware, Lackawanna, and
Western, both writs of error against the State of Pennsylvania,
and to judgments of the Supreme Court of that State. The tax
levied in these last two cases upon the bonds of non-residents of
the State was three mills on the dollar of capital, to be paid out
of the interest; and the law laying the tax, a law of 1844, was in
existence when the bonds were issued. In the previous case it
will be remembered that the tax levied was five per cent. upon
the interest of the bonds, and the law levying it was not in such
existence. The last two cases, therefore, resembled the case of
* Ogden v. Saunders, 12 Wheaton, 214; Baldwin v. Hale, 1 Wallace, 223.

t See their opinion, infra, note following, pp. 327-8.

Dec.

1872.]

STATE

TAX ON FOREIGN-HELD BONDS.

327

Opinion of Clifford, Miller, Davis, and Hunt, JJ., dissenting.
Miallby v. Reading and Columbia Railroad, the particulars of
which are stated supra.'
Mr. Justice FIErD, who delivered the judgment of the court,
in the additional two cases now mentioned, as in the first one,
said that the cases involved the same questions that had been
considered and decided in the previous case, that of the Cleveland, Painesville, and Ashtabula Railroad; and that "the difference in the mode of the assessment of the tax did not affect the
principle decided."
Upon the authority of the case cited, the judgments in these
two cases, now mentioned, were accordingly REVERSED, and the
causes remanded for further proceedings, Justices CLIFFORD,
MILLEa, DAVIS, and HuNT dissenting; and Mr. Justice DAVIS
saying, for himself and them, in all the cases, as follows:
"I cannot agree to the opinion of a majority of my brethren
in these cases. That the tax in question is valid and binding,
both on the corporation and its creditor, is clearly settled in
Nallby v. The Philadelphia and Reading Railroad Company, and
that, too, whether the creditor resides in Pennsylvania or elsewhere. As the highest court of the State has decided that the
act of 1844 authorized the imposition of the tax in controversy,
and as that act was in force when the bonds and mortgages
were issued, I cannot see how any principle of the Federal Constitution is violated, nor can I sce how this court can reach the
conclusion it does in these cases without denying to the State
government the right to construe its own local laws. This
right has been recognized so often and in such a variety of
ways, that it is no longer an open question. Indeed this court
in Railroad Company v. Jackson has expressly recognized the
binding force of the construction which the Supreme Court in
Pennsylvania has put on the act of 1844. Mr. Justice Nelson,
delivering the opinion of the court, said:
" 'It has been argued for the plaintiff, that the acts of the
legislature of Pennsylvania, when properly interpreted, do not
embrace the bonds or coupons in question; but it is not important to examine the subject, fbr it is not to be denied, as the
courts of the State have expounded these laws, that they authorized the deduction, and, if no'other objection existed against
the tax, the defence would fail.'
*

rp. 803-307.

FOWLER v. RAPLEY.

[Sup. at.

Statement of the case.

"I am also of opinion, that a State legislature is not restrained
by anything in the Federal Constitution nor by any principle
which this court can enforce against the State court, from taxing the property of persons which it can reach and lay its hands
on, whether these persons reside within or without the State."

FOWLER V. RAPLEY.
Under the landlord and tenant law of the District of Columbia, as regulated
by the act of Congress of February 22d, 1867, the 1,tacit lien" given by
the ant upon certain of the tenant's personal chattels, on the premises,
attaches at the commencement of the tenancy to any such chattels then
on the premises, and continues to attach to them into whosesoever hands
the chattels may come during the time allowed by the act for instituting
proceedings, unless the lien is displaced by the removal or the chattels,
or by the sale of them by the tenant in the ordinary course of mercantile transactions. It is not displaced by a sale of the stock in mass,
while they remain in mass, to a person who knew that the premises
were leased, and continues to occupy them, selling in the ordinary way
the goods; nor even by a second sale of that sort.

APPEAL from the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia; the case being thus:
An act of Congress of February 22d, 1867,* abolishes the
right of distress in the District of Columbia, and enacts that
"Instead of it the landlord shall have a tacit lien upon such
of the tenant's personal chattels, upon the premises, as are subject to execution for debt, to commence with the tenancy and
continue for three months after the rent is due, and until the
termination of any action for such rent brought within said
three months. And this lien may be enforced"First. By attachment, to be issued upon affidavit that the
rent is due and unpaid; or if not due, that the defendant is
about to remove or sell all or some of said chattels; or,
-,Second. By judgment against the tenant, and execution to
* 14 Stat. at Large, 404.

