Dec. 1872.]

DUNCAN V. JAUDON.
Statement of the case.

evidence. But the loss of many title papers was proved.
The heirs of Bacon made no claim, and disclaimed all intention of claiming. The plaintiff, and those under whom he
claimed, had taken charge of the land, and kept it from 1815
till 1839, paying taxes. Then all the heirs of Smith quitclaimed to the Oberlin Collegiate Institute, whose title the
plaintiff has. From 1826, possession has attended the claim,
without challenge. Whether these facts, and others of which
.evidence was given, justified a presumption of a grant from
the other heirs of Bacon was, of course, a question for the
jury, in regard to which no instruction to the jury was
asked. Nor are we informed what directions, if any, were
given. In this part of the case there is, consequently nothing for us to review. And in the part of the charge to which
exception was taken, we perceive no error.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

DUNCAN V. JAUDON.
1. A person lending money to a trustee on a pledge of trust stocks, and selling the stocks for repayment of the loan, will be compelled to account
for them, if he have either actual or constructive notice that the trustee
was abusing his trust, and applying the money lent to his own purposes.
2. The lender will be held to have had this notice when the certificates of
the stocks pledged show on their face that the stock is held in trust, and
when, apparently, the loan was for a private purpose of the trustee, and
this fact would have been revealed by an inquiry.
3. The duty of inquiry is imposed on a lender lending on stocks, where the
certificate of them reveals a trust.
4. These principles are not affected by the fact that the stocks pledged may
be such as the trustee under the instrument creating his trust had no
right to invest in; as ex. gr., stock of a canal company, when he was
bound to invest in State or Federal loans.
5. Notice to the cashier of a bank, or of bankers, that the stock pledged is
trust stock, is notice to them.
A-PPEAL from a decree of the Circuit Court for the Southern District of New York. The case was thus:
In 1833 Commodore William Bainbridge, a resident of

DUNCAN V. JAUDON.

[Sup. Ot.-

Statement of the case.

Philadelphia, died, leaving four daughters, one of whom was
Mary T. B., subsequently the wife of Charles Jaudon. By his
will he left to two trustees a considerable sum of money, directing them to invest the same in the stocks of the United
States, or the stocks or funds of any individual State, and to
bold the same in trust for his several daughters; one-fourth
for his daughter Mary, the interest to be paid to her, " for her
sole use and benefit during her natural life, and at the end
of her natural life, the amount so invested to be equally.
divided between her children." The property left by the
Commodore was invested by his trustees as the will directed,
chiefly in five per cent. loans of Pennsylvania,' and the interest was properly paid to the daughters. The interest
received from the Pennsylvania loans, five per cent., was
less than the cestui que trusts were content with; but the
trustees appointed in the will would not depart from the
directions imposed on them by it as to the class of investments in which they could invest; and becoming thus unacceptable to the cestui que trusts, they were discharged, in
1835, at their own request, from their trust, and surrendered
the estate under their care to Samuel Jaudon, whom, on the
consent of Mrs. Jaudon, the court appointed, without security,
to bd trustee, in the place of the trustees named in the will.*
The Pennsylvania five per cent. stock was now soon sold,
and the proceeds invested by Samuel Jaudon in the stock
of the Delaware and Raritan Canal Company, according to
an arrangement previously made with the eestui que trusts;
the new stock being one of a high character in its class, and
which has paid for many years, with great regularity, ten
per cent. a year dividend, with occasional large extra dividends. Mrs. M. T. B. Jaudon got thus finally 117 shares of
this stock. The certificates, of which there were several,
all ran thus:
"This is to certify that S. Jaudon, trustee for Mrs. Mary T. B.
Jaudon, is entitled to seventy shares in the capital stock of the
* The new trustee was a brother of Charles Jaudon, the husband of Mrs.
Xk. T. B. Jaudon.

Dec. 1872.]

DUNCAN V. JAUDON.
Statement of the case.

Delaware and Raritan Canal Company. . . Transferable on the
books of the Company, and on surrender of this certificate only
by him or his legal representative."
This investment was made very soon after the new trustee
was appointed. A similar one was made for all the sisters,
and was perfectly agreeable to them all. Mrs. Jaudon considered that the trustee was "acting very judiciously, and
was very glad of it."
In this state of things Samuel Jaudon, who had been
dealing largely on his own account in a stock known as
"Broad Top Coal and Iron Stock," a speculative stock of
no established value, applied in 1865 to the National City
Bank of New York to lend him money on 47 shares of this
stock. They agreed to do so, and he delivered to the cashier of the bank the certificates standing in his name as trustee,
executing also a power of attorney to sell in case of nonpayment of the loan; the power describing him as "S. Jaudo, trusteefor Jlrs. l. T. B. .Jaudon," and he signing himself
in the same way. This dealing of Jaudon with the City
Bank, based on the stock in question, and commencing in
1865, extended through a term of two years. During this
time ten separate loans were made to him oil the pledge of
the 47 shares of the canal stock. The securities were returned to Jaudon whenever he paid up the amount of a
loan, and redelivered to the bank each time a new loan was
effected. In December, 1867, when the last loan matured,
the bank, being unwilling to renew it, and Jaudon unable
to pay it, sold the stock by the direction of Jaudon, and applied the proceeds of the sale to the payment of its debt.
A few months prior to this sale, that is to say, in July,1867, Jaudon, wanting more money, applied to Duncan,
Sherman & Co., bankers of New York, with one of which
firm, William Butler Duncan, he had had ancient relations,
and with whom alone lie spoke in the matter, for a loan of
$7000 at 90 days; telling him that he had securities to offer,
and naming them,-the remaining 70 shares of the canal
stock, like that pledged to the bank, declared on its face to
be "in trust for Mrs. M. T. B. Jandon." "Upon the faith of

DUNCAN V. JAUDON.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

the collaterals," and "to oblige" Jaudon, the proposition was
accepted by Mr. Duncan, who told his cashier to attend to
the matter. The cashier accordingly lent Jaudon the money,
taking the certificates for the 70 shares, and a power.to sell
like those inthe other case, in which he both described and
signed himself as " trustee of Mrs. -M1. T. B. Jaudon." Jandon failing on the maturity of the loan to pay it, the stock
was sold. There was no evidence that any of the principals
of the house of Duncan, Sherman & Co. had seen the certificates or powers, or had any personal knowledge of the fact
that Mrs. Jaudou claimed any interest in them. But their
clerk did see the certificates; and it was testified by Air. W.
B. Duncan, that "without the collaterals he certainly would
not have made the loan."
Mrs. Jaudon was absolutely ignorant of all that was done,
until after the stock was sold, when Samuel Jaudon disclosed
the history to her.
There was no doubt that every one of these loans, whether
by the City Bank or by Duncan, Sherman & Co., were to
Jaudon in his personal character and for his individual use,
and that the money obtained was applied to discharge liabilities incurred in the purchase or carrying of the Broad Top
coal stock, in which he was at the time dealing on his own
account; taking in his own name, and without the exhibition of any trust whatever, certificates for what he bought.
Jaudon being insolvent, Mrs. Jaudon now filed a bill in
the court below against him, Duncan, Sherman & Co., and
the National City Bank, to reach the proceeds of the property
which he had disposed of. Jaudon was himself examined
*as a witness, and narrated with apparent general candor the
history of the transaction. IHe stated, however, in reply to
questions inviting such answers, that from his conversations
with his sister-in-law (the complainant), it was his general
understanding that any changes in investment which he
deemed advisable would be approved by her; and that if the
investment in Broad Top stock had resulted as he had anticipated, her income would have been further increased; and
that in making a purchase of the stock his intention was "to

Dec. 1872.]

DU.NCAN V. JAUDON.
Argument for the lenders.

surprise hef by giving her something that was worth a great
deal more than all the rest." With all this he stated, however, that he had never had any conversation whatever with
his sister-in-law on the subject of changing the investment
made in the canal stock.
The court below decreed that Duncan, Sherman & Co.
should account for the value of the 70 shares pledged to them
and sold, with the dividends and other proceeds that would
have been received thereon, including interest on the dividends had they not been diverted from the trust. And that
the bank should do the same by the 47 shares pledged to
them and sold.
Both Duncan, Sherman & Co. and the City Bank appealed.
31r. . W. McFarland,for Duncan, Sherman "Co.; Mr. W
EI. Arnoux, for the National City Banc, appellant:
Assuming that both of the defendants are to be charged
with constructive notice that the stock in question was'held
subject to some trust, from the circumstance that the word
trustee appeared upon the face of the certificates, a presumption impossible to make in regard to Duncan, Sherman &
Co., no member of which firm ever saw the certificatessuch notice cast upon the defendants no other duty than that
of ascertaining whether the power to sell and buy securities,
ordinarily attending the title to such securities, had been in
this case lawfully withheld from the trustee by the terms of
the trust.*:*
While in the case of executors the law implies the power
to dispose of the personal assets, and a purchaser may, as a
rule, assume its existence without inquiry, and while in the
- Ashton v. Atlantic Bank, 3 Allen, 217; Albert v.Savings Bank, I Maryland Chancery Decisions, 408; Atkinson v. Atkinson, 8 Alien, 15; Pennsylvania Life Insurance Co. v.Austin, 42 Pennsylvania State, 257; Garrard V.
:Pittsburg and Connellsville, &c., Co., 29 Id. 164; Dodson v. Simpson, 2
Randolph, 294; Tillinghast v. Champlin, 4 Rhode Island, 173, 213; Field
v.Schieffelin, 7 Johnson's Chancery, 160; McLeod v.Drummond, 14 Vesey,
363.

DUNCAN V. JAUDON.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the lenders.

case of strict trustees, where the purchaser has notice of the
existence of the trust, it may be necessary for him to ascertain that the power of sale has not been withheld by the
terms of the trust; nevertheless, unless it has been withheld, and the trustee is therefore unable to sell without committing a breach of trust, the principles of law, which govern
both cases, are from that point forward the same, and are so
treated in all the authorities.
In cases where it is the duty of the purchaser to inquire
into the trustee's power to sell, and he finds that he possesses
this power, and may sell, without by the act of sale committing a breach of trust, he has the right to presume, as the
law presumes, in favor of honesty and against fraud.*
There are a few cases in which the purchaser is bound to
see to the application of the purchase-money. To this class
the foregoing observations are of course inapplicable, but to
this class the case at bar does not belong.
2. A pledge or mortgage stands upon the same footing,
and is governed by the same principles as a sale, it being
but a part execution of the larger power, and the exercise of
which may be just as beneficial to the beneficiaries.t
3. There was no violation of the trust in question by the
trustee in disposing of the canal stock. It did not even
belong to any of the cla ses of securitips in which the testator expressed a desire to have his estate invested. For aught
that the defendants knew, it might have been the intention,
as perhaps it was the duty of the trustee, by raising the'
money in question, to reinvest the trust funds in the class of
securities contemplated by the testator. The testator's express desire in regard to the character of the investment of
the trust funds, was disregarded with the consent and at the
solicitation of the beneficiaries, in hopes of thus securing a
larger income.
4. The evidence of Mr. Jaudon shows that it was left
largely to him by this cestld que trust, his sister-in-law, in
* Broom's Legal Maxims, 911 ?

t Petrie v. Clark, 11 Sergeant & Rawle, 388; Miles v. Durnford, 2 Simons
(New Series), 234; Russell v. Plaice, 18 Bevan, 21.

Dec. 1872.]

DUNCAN

V.

JAUDON.

Opinion of the court.

what security to invest. There had been a complete departure from the terms of the will by the investment in canal
shares. The change to Broad Top stock was no greater
than that was. Mr. Jaudon considered the Broad Top a
promising investment, and hoped to surprise his sister-inlaw by a most agreeable accession to her income. He meant
to reinvest the trust moneys produced by the sale of canal
shares in this new stock. This, no doubt, it was wrong in
him to do; but not more wrong than what he had already
done; and in one case, as in the other, he meant all for the
best. But the canal stock having been sold really to make
a trust reinvestment, neither Duncan, Sherman & Co., nor
the bank can be made liable for the failure of the new fund;
though, of course, Mr. Jaudon can be for violating the directions of his testator.
.r.

T. B. Srong, contra.

Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
It is too plain for controversy that Samuel Jaudon committed a gross breach of trust in allowing the shares of stock
in the Delaware and Raritan Canal Company to be disposed
of and applied in the manner they were; but as he is insolvent, and the specific property cannot be reclaimed, the
inquiry arises whether the appellants, with whom the shares
were pledged and for whose benefit they were sold, or the
cestid que trust, shall bear the loss occasioned by his misconduct.
It is argued that the appellants bear a different relation to
this stock from what would be the case if the investment in
it had .been authorized by the terms of the will. It is true
the will directed iivestments to be made in government or
State stocks, and on this account the conversion by Jaudoa
of the State stocks on hand into canal stock, was a wrongful
act and a breach of trust. But the cestui que trust was at
liberty to approve or reject this unauthorized proceeding,
and her decision on the subject concerned no one not interested in the trust estate. She elected to approve it after she

1,72

DUNCAN V. JAUDON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

learned of the occurrence, and by doing this adopted the
new investment and waived the breach of trust. But her
waiver on that occasion did not bind her to observe the
same line of conduct in case of further violation of duty.
It would be absurd to suppose because she ratified this transaction she intended to assent to future breaches of trust.
Indeed, it is quite clear from the evidence that she acquiesced
in the arrangement because her relatives who had charge of
the estate advised it. In the nature of the case, she could
not have had that sort of information on such a subject on
which to base a correct judgment, and, therefore, necessarily
relied for the security of her rights on the counsel of older
and more experienced persons in whom she placed confidence. It is due to the trustee to say that the change of
investment was a family arrangement, in order to obtain a
greater income, and that the stock selected for this purpose
was one of the best of its kind that the market afforded.
Although it is wrong in any case for trustees under a will,
in making investments, to depart from the rule prescribed
by the testator, yet if it is done, and acquiesced in by the
party in interest, and there is no interference by the court
having charge of the trust, the right of action to the cestui
que trust for an illegal disposition of the property thus substituted is not affected by reason of this departure. It is
still an estate held in trust for the beneficiary under the will,
and to be protected equally with an investment made strictly
in accordance with the terms of the will. It follows, then,
that the relation of those having dealings with the trustee,
based on shares of stock held in this way, is not changed by
reason that the original purchase was not in accordance with
the directions of the testator.
This brings us to a consideration of the particular trans-'
actions on which the claim for relief in these cases is founded.
The dealings of Jaudon with the City Bank, based on the
stock in question, commenced in 1865 and extended through
a period of two years.
The dealing with Duncan, Sherman & Co. was confined
to a single transaction.

Dec. 1872.]

DUNCAN V. JAUDON.
Opinion of the court.

The evidence leaves no room for doubt that each and all
of the loans were to Jaudon in his personal character and
for his individual use, and that the money obtained was
applied to discharge liabilities incurred in the purchase, or
carrying, of Broad Top coal stock, a speculative stock of no
established reputation, in which he was at the time dealing
on his own account. *
It is true, when he borrowed the money he had no expectation of resorting to the trust funds to repay it, but his
good intention in this respect furnishes no excuse for his
conduct. It was wrong for him, under any state of circumstance, to pledge the stock in order to obtain money for his
personal wants. He held .a fiduciary relation to it, and yet
used it as if it were his own, and bargained for the consequences which followed, although the necessity for the ultimate sale of it was not anticipated by him at the time he
pledged it. If the law allowed the property of the cestui que
trust to be treated in this manner there would be little encouragement to vest an estate in trustees for the benefit of
others.
It is argued that the several transactions of Jaudon with
the bank and Duncan, Sherman & Co. were really, on his
part, for the purpose of reinvesting the trust funds. How
can this be, when he had not a thought at the time he got
the money of failure to pay it? His speculations, then, were
on his own account, and, like all sanguine men whodeal in
stocks, he had full fhith that the venture in which he was
engaged would prove remunerative. The idea of reinvestment was an afterthought, occurring at the time he found
himself unable to pay, and obliged, as he supposed, to part
with the property of his cestui que trust, And even then it
did not assume the shape of a settled purpose, but only an
intention to offer the injured party Broad Top security, in
which he was operating, for the canal stock, which he was
about to appropriate to his own necessities. It is natural
that a trustee who makes use of trust property to pay his
own debts, without a deliberate design to defraud, should
intend, at some future time, to put the party wronged by

DUNCAN V. JAUDON.

[Snp. Ot.

Opinion of the court.

him in as good a position as before; but can such an intention be treated as a purpose to reinvest the trust funds in
the securities in which the trustee is privately speculating?
If it can, personal property in the hands of trustees, be the
declaration of trust ever so specific, is in a very unsafe condition. The stock was not sold because it was desirable to
change the investment, but for the simple reason that it had
been pledged, and it was pledged for the sole object of enabling Jaudon to obtain money to advance his personal

ends. If therefore, there had been occasion for making a
reinvestment, and authority to do it, the transactions in
question had no reference to any such object.
But why change the investment, when the canal stock,
one of the Inost stable of its kind in the country, was paying
on the average- a semi-annual dividend of 5 per cent. If it
were allowable under the will to invest in the stock of private corporations at all, few more desirable than this were
accessible. Experience had shown that it was safe and
yielded a large income, and no prudent trustee having once
invested in it, and had his conduct approved, looking alone
to the interest of his eestui que trust, would take the hazard
of selling it aid purchasing another. But there was no authority to sell it, even were it desirable to do so, or to deal
with it so that a sale might become necessary. If Jaudoa
thought so there was no foundation for his belief, and he is
compelled to admit, although his whole testimony is an effort
to justify his conduct, that he never had any conversation
with his eestui que trust on the subject of changing this stock.
It was treated by all concerned, during the long course
of years in which it was held in trust, as a most desirable
investment, and no thought of substituting other securities
for it was eveit entertained by any one, until the idea occurred to Jaudon as a means of escape from the embarrassment in which he was placed by the unlawful use lie made
of it. The cestui que trust not only never gave consent to
pledge or sell it, but had no reason to suppose that the trustee would attempt anything of the kind; nor has she said or
done anything, fairly interpreted, which tends even to relieve

IDec. 1872.]

DUNCAN V. JAUDON.
Opinion of the court.

the trustee from the legal responsibility which pertains to
the administration of the trust estate.
It follows, then, that the use of the stocks by Jaudon in
his transactions with the bank and Duncan, Sherman & Go.
was, on his part, a flagrant breach of trust, without either
justification or excuse. If so, are they blameless? They
cannot be, if they had actual or constructive notice that the
trustee was abusing lis trust and applying the proceeds of
the loans to his own use. As we have seen, the loans were
for no purpose connected with the trust, but for Jaudon's
own benefit, and the face of the papers given as collateral
security for the debts thus incurred informed the parties
dealing with him that he held the stock as trustee for Mrs.
Mary T. B. Jaudon, and inquiry would have revealed the
fhet that the use to which the stock was put was unauthorized.
The duty of making such inquiry was imposed on these
parties, for it is out of the cominon course of business to
take corporate stock held in trust, as security for the trustee's own debt. The party taking such stock on pledge
deals with it at his peril, for there is no presumption of a
right to sell it, as there is in the case of an executor. In the
former case the property is held for custody, in the latter for
administration.
It matters not whether the stock is pledged for an antecedent debt of the trustee or for money lent him at the time.
It is unlawful to use it for either purpose.

In Lowry v. Commercial and Farmers' Bank of Maryland,*
which was a case of misappropriation of corporate stock by
an executor, Chief Justice Taney held "that if a party dealing with an executor has, at the time, reasonable ground for
believing that he intends to misapply the money, or is, in
the very transaction, applying it to his own private use, the
party so dealing is responsible to the persons injured."
And the Supreme Court of Massachusetts, in a recent case,t
* Taney's Circuit Court Decisions, 310.

t Shaw v. Spencer and others, 100 Massachusetts, 389.

DUNCAN V. JAUDON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

in its essential features like the case at bar, decides that if a
certificate of stock, expressed in the name of "A. B. Trustee," is by him pledged to secure his own debt, the pledgee
is, by the terms of the certificate, put on inquiry as to the
character and limitations of the trust, and, if he accepts the
pledge without inquiry, does so at his peril. In that case
the cesiui que trust was not named in the certificate, and the
court remarked that, if it were so, the duty of inquiry would
hardly be controverted.
If these propositions are sound, and we entertain no d(ubt
on the point, the liability of the appellants for the conversion
of the stock belonging to Mrs. Jaudon cannot be an open
question. They either knew, or ought to have known, that
Jaudon was operating on his own account, and are chargeable with constructive notice of everything which, upon inquiry, they could have ascertained from the cestui que trust.
If this inquiry had been pursued they could not have failed
to discover the nature and foundation of the trust, and that
the trustee had no right to pledge the stock for any purpose.
The bank, in its dealings with Jaudon, was guilty of gross
negligence, and, in consequence of this, inflicted serious injury upon an innocent person. It may be that the cashier
never inquired of Jaudon what he wanted with the money,
but nine successive loans to him in one year, each time on
the pledge of the same trust security, was evidence enough
to satisfy any reasonable man that the money was wanted
for private uses, and not for any honest purpose connected
with the administration of the trust.
Duncan, Sherman & Co., although intending no wrong,
cannot escape their share of responsibility. Duncan lent the
money to Jaudon to oblige him, and, in the very nature of
the transaction, he did it for Jaudon's private accommodation. On making the application Jaudou told him he had
securities to offer, naming them, and naturally he supposed
they were Jaudon's own property. It is his misfortune that
he turned them over to his cashier, with directions to accommodate Jaudon, without having personally examined
them. If he had made this examination, we are persuaded

Dec. 1872.]

BROWN V. HIATTS.
Statement of the case.

the cestui que trust would have had no occasion to be dissatisfied with his conduct.
It is needless to argue that Duncan is bound by the notice
communicated to the cashier when he received the certificate and concluded the business with Jaudon.
Without pursuing the subject further, we are satisfied
that the decrees below should be
AFFIRMED.

BROWN v. HIATTS.
I. Statutes of limitation of the several States did not run during the late
civil war against the right of action of parties upon contracts made
previous to, and maturing after, the commencement of the war.
2. Interest on loans made previous to, and maturing after, the commencement of the war ceased to run during the subsequent continuance of the
war, although interest was stipulated in the contract.
3. These doctrines held in a case where a mortgagee, who was a citizen and
resident of Virginia, one of the Confederate States, brought a suit, after
the close of the war, upon a bond and mortgage executed by citizens of
Kansas, one of the loyal States, previous to the war, but which matured
a month after the commencement of the war.
4. It having been held that the civil war commenced in Virginia at the date
of the proclamation of the President of intended blockade of her ports,
April 27th, 1861, and to hav ended, so far as the statutes of limitation
are concerned, on his proclamation of its close, April 2d, 1866, the period
between those dates must be deducted in the computation of the time
during which the statute of Kansas had run against the right of action
of the mortgagee on the said bond and mortgage.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of Kansas;
the case being thus:
Brown filed a bill against Hiatt and wife to foreclose a
mortgage, executed by the latter persons upon certain real
property in Kansas, to secure their joint and several bond
for $2400, with interest, and to obtain a sale of the mortgaged premises for its payment. The case was thus:
On the 29th of M'ay, 1860, Brown, who was then and still
is a citizen and resident of Virginia, being at the time in
VOL. xv.

12

