DECISIONS
IN THE

SUPIEME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
DECEMBER TERM, 1872.

PORTLAND COMPANY V. UNITED STATES.
A case dismissed, January 8th, 1873, because the counsel for the appellant
did not file a brief in the form required by the amendment to the 21st
rule, promulgated November 16th, 1872, and to be seen at large in
14 Wallace, p. ix.

from the Court of Claims.
The Portland Company, a corporation of Maine, filed a
petition in the court just named to recover the drawback
allowed by the 17th section of the act of June 30th, 1864,*
on certain locomotive-engines exported by them. The engines were manufactured by the company under a contract
with the United States, and the internal revenue tax thereon
was paid. Afterwards the engines were sold by the government at public auction, and the company bought them. The
Court of Claims dismissed the petition, and the claimants
appealed.
On the case being called, January 8th, 1872, it was submitted by the appellants on the record, no brief being filed in
their behalf.
For the United States, a brief was submitted by Mr. . H.
Hill, Assistant Attorney-General.
APPEAL

The CHIEF JUSTICE, January 20th, 1873, delivering
the judgment of the court, said:
From time to time, the court has adopted rules of practice
* 13 Stat. at Large, 802, 303.
VOL., XVY.

( I)

2

PORTLAND COMPANY V. UNITED STATES.

[Sup. Ct.

Warning to the bar.

intended to facilitate the presentation of causes by counsel
and their consideration by the court. Finding that these
rules, through the inattention of the bar, 'bad failed in a
great degree of their intended effect, we promulgated at the
last term and for the same end, an anended twenty-first
rule, the fourth section of which required that the brief
should contain, in the order there stated:
First, a concise abstract or statement presenting succinctly
the questions involved, and the manner in which they were
raised;
Second, an assignment of the errors relied upon, setting
out, in cases brought up by writ of error, separately and
specifically each error asserted and intended to be urged,
and in cases .brought up by appeal, as specifically as may be,
the error alleged to exist in the decree; or, if the error be
alleged in a ruling upon the report of a master, stating the
exception to the report and the action of the court upon it;
Third, a brief of the argument exhiibiting a clear statement
of the points of law or fact to be discussed, with a reference
to the pages of the record and authorities relied upon in
support of each point, and containing, when a statute of a
State is cited, so much thereof as may be deemed necessary
to the decision of the case, printed at length.
The fifth section of the rule also required that when the
error allowed is to the charge of the court, the specification
shall set out the part referred to totidemi verbis, whether it be
instructions given or instructions refused.
And the sixth section reauired that when the error alleged
is to the admission or rejection of evidence, the specification
shall quote the full substance of the evidence admitted or
rejected.
The necessity of strict compliance with these rules, especially in view of the greatly augmented business of the court,
is evident. It will facilitate as much the labors of the bar as
those of the bench. That counsel might have full notice of
the rule, it was required to take effect on the first day of the
present month of January, and the clerk was directed to have
printed copies made of the rule as amended, and send one

Dec. 1872.]

RAILROADS V. RICHIIMOND.
Statement of the case.

copy to each of the counsel in all cases pending and not yet
argued. In the case before us, thi rule has been totally
disregarded on ilie part of the appellant.
We shall, therefore, in this case
DISMISS TIE APPEAL.

RAILROADS V. BICHMOND.

A case will fall within the 25th section of the Judiciary Act where the
record shows that on a suit on a contract the defendants set tip that the
contract had been rendered void and of no force and effect by provisions
of the Constitution of the United St.ites and1 of certain acts of Congress,
and shows also that the decision of the highest court of the State was
against the right, title, privilege, or exemption thus specially set up.

MOTION to dismiss a writ of error to the Supreme Court

of Iowa, which had been sued out on the assumption that
the case came within the third clause of the 25th section of
the Judiciary Act. That act thus enacts:
"That a final judgment or decree in any suit, in the highest
court of law or equity of a State in wviich a decision in the suit
could be had,
"(1st.) Where is drawn in question the validity of a treaty or
statute of, or an authority exercised under, the United States,
and the decision is AGAINST their validity;
"(2d.) Or where is drawn in question the validity of a statute
of or an authority exercised under any State, on the ground of
their being repugnant to the Constitution, treaties, or laws of
the United States, and the decision is IN FAVOR of such their
validity;
"(3d.) Or where is drawn in question the construction of any
clause of the Constitution, or of a treaty, or statute of, or commission held under the United States, and the decision is AGAINST
the title, right, privilege, or exemption, specially set up or claimed
by either party, under such clause of the said Constitution, treaty,
statute, or commission,"May be re-examined and reversed or affirmed in the Supreme
Court of the United States upon a writ of error."

