Dec. 1872.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. HANNING.

649

Syllabus.

without due consideration, and was largely influenced by
the advice of Mr. Chandlee, who had been her husband's
friend and adviser, and who was prompted to do what he
did by Cammack, while in ignorance of many of the facts
of the case.
Besides, the bill in this case, as appears on its face, is
brought by her as administratrix, and the receipt by her of
the one-third paid on the policy was before any administrator
had been appointed. If she has a right to recover all the
$3000 as administratrix, it could not be defeated by her receipt of $1000, paid to her in her own right before any administration had been taken out on Lewis's estate.
On the whole, we are of opinion that the decree of the
Supreme Court should be affirmed, and it is
SO ORDERED.

RAILROAD COMPANY V. HANNING.
1. This court cannot decide that a charge is wrong which submits it to the
jury to say whether a wharf was a public place upon which all persons
were accustomed to come and go at pleasure, and were by law permitted
so to do, when the record does not contain the evidence upon which the
question.arose. The court cannot assume that the charge was erroneous.
2. The general rule is that when an injury has been sustained by the negligent manner in which a wharf or other work is constructed or protected,
the principal is liable for the acts and negligence of the agent in the
course of the employment, although he did not authorize or know of
the acts complained of. When the actor ceases to be a servant or agent
and is, himself, the master, he alone is responsible.
3. When a contractor agrees with a railroad company to furnish the materials and labor for building a wharf, to put in posts, piles, &c., as the
company should require, making an old wharf as good as new, and a
new one in the most workmanlike manner; to submit to the supervisor
and direction of the company's engineer, and to do the work to his satisfaction: held, that the company had the general and special control of
the.work, and that the contractor was their agent; and that the company was responsible for an injury occurring through the negligence of
the contractor or of those in his employment.
4. An act of the General Assembly of the State of Louisiana, referring to a
certain railroad corporation, enacted that the said corporation should

650

RAILROAD COMPANY V. HANNING.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
not be liable for debts incurred by those who should contract with it for
building its road, &c., 4 nor shall said company be liable for any injury
to person or property caused by the act or omission of the persons so
contracting with it." Held, that this was a convenient form of declaring the common-law rights of the company, and conferred no exemption
on it.
5. Until notice has been given of the changed character of the place, one
passing over a wharf or platform over which the public has been accustomed to pass, cannot be made a trespasser for so passing; although the
wharf or platform is now no longer used for the purpose of passage.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the District of Louisiana;
the case being this:
The New Orleans, Mobile, and Chattanooga Railroad
Company-the station-house grounds of whose road in New
Orleans came down in one part of the city to the batture of
the Mississippi-obtained conveyances of the batture property in front, the same being accurately described by maps
annexed to them, and were desirous of building in front of
their batture a wharf on the river, and also of repairing an
old wharf there.
With a view of enabling them to do this, the General Assembly of Louisiana, by a joint resolution passed March 6th,
1869, gave the company-I

"The right to inclose and occupy for its purposes and uses,
and in such manner as the directors of the said company may
determine, that portion of the levee, batture, and wharf, in the
city of New Orleans, between and from [certain streets described] to the lower line of the batture, rights owned by said
company."
And the joint resolution provided that"No steamship or other vessel shall occupy or lie at said
wharf, or receive or discharge cargo thereat, except by and
with the consent of the said company."
On the 21st of January, 1870, the General Assembly also
passed an act,* relating to the company, whose second section was in these words:
* No. 31, Sessions Acts, p. 35.

Dec. 1872.]

:RAILROAD COMPANY V. HANNING.

651

Statement of the case.

"The said corporation, its officers, or employ~s, shall not in
any case be liable for any debts contracted or liabilities incurred
by any person or persons who shall have contracted, or who
shall contract with it, to construct any portion of its road, buildings, or appurtenances,or its rolling stock, or to furnish any materialsor labor to be used for such construction, or for its maintenance
or operation.
"N3or shall said company, its officers, or employes, be liable for
any injury to person or property, or loss of life, which shall be caused
by any act or omission of any person or persons so contracting with
it, or any of his or their employds or agents."
In this state of things, on the 28th of November, 1870,
the railroad company, through its division engineer, G. W.
Bayley, made an agreement with one Michael Carvin, thus:
"Michael Carvin agrees to furnish the timber, planking, and
iron work, and all the labor necessary for the rebuilding of the
company's wharf in front of their depot grounds, . . . with such
mooring-posts, cluster-piles for fenders every twenty feet, rows
of piles on boundary lines, above and below, slips or inclines, as
the company, through their engineer, may require, for the sum
of $40 per square of one hundred square feet, it being understood that only the best quality of twelve-inch square yellow
pine timber shall be used for piles, caps, stringers, fenders, and
blocking, and the best of three-inch yellow pine planks for covering or flooring, such of the old piles as are sound and good to
be sawed off and blocks placed thereon, but new caps, stringers,
and planking to be used throughout. The old wharf to be made
as good as new, and the new wharf in the best workmanlike
manner; two hundred feet of wharf, from the lower line, to be
completed in two weeks, and the whole within one month from
this date.
"It is also understood and agreed that the said G. W. Bayley,
division engineer of the company, shall supervise and direct the
work hereby agreed to be done, and that the said work shall be
done to his satisfaction.
"Payment to be made in currency, on the 10th of January,
1871, the company's regular pay-day, at the rate of $40 per
square for completed wharf, as above specified, on the approval
of the estimate or bill for same by said G. W. Bayley, division
engineer."

RAILROAD

COMPANY

V. HANNING.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

During the progress of the work thus provided for, one
fanning, while walking, as he alleged, across the wharf
and using all proper precautions, was precipitated down an
embankment the distance of ten feet and received serious
injury; the injury, as he further alleged, being wholly caused
by the company's negligently removing the planks on the
wharf and negligently laying the planking thereon, contrary
to its obligations in the matter. Hle accordingly sued the
company, alleging that the wharf was a "public wharf."
The place where the wharf was, it appeared, prior to the
passage of the joint resolution of March 6th, 1869, authorizing the railroad company to inclose and occupy it for its
own purposes and uses, had, like the banks of all rivers in
Louisiana, from an early date, been open to the public for
passing along.
The court below, refusing to give instructions requested
by the plaintiff of an opposite kind, charged that if the jury
should believe from the evidence that the wharf had always
been free and open to the public, then that when the legislature gave to the company the right to occupy it, it was the
duty of the company to take means to warn the public that
the rights of the public had ceased, so that persons might
avoid going upon it, and that as the company had neglected
to take any precautions in this respect, they were liable for
the damage.
It also charged that the company was answerable for the
acts of its contractor, under the contract with Carvin.
The jury found $10,000 damages for the plaintiff; and
judgment being entered accordingly, the present writ of
error was taken.
The record sent here was a meagre one. It did not furnish any evidence of what sort of a wharf, as ex gr., whether
public or private, this wharf was, further than as might be
inferred from the joint resolution of March 6th, 1869, the
conveyances of property adjoining it, and the contract with
Carvin. Neither did it appear what brought the plaintiff
on the wharf, whether lawful business, idleness, curiosity,
or some bad purpose.

Dec. 1872.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. HANNING.
Argument for the person hurt.

Messrs. J. A. and -D. G. Campbell,for the plaintff in error:
1. We admit that a servitude of public utility is reserved
upon the banks of all of the navigable waters in Louisiana.
But in this case this condition of public use ceased with the
adoption of the joint resolution of the 6th of March, 1869,
and the occupation of the wharf by the railroad company,
under their title. This resolution of the legislature discharged the land of the reserved public servitude, and authorized the corporation, as riparian owners, to maintain a
wharf in their front for their own uses and purposes, in such
manner as the board of directors might determine. The
act, therefore, of the defendant, Hanning, in coming upon
this property without any business relations with, or invitation, or inducement from the corporation, was a trespass;
for we know of no law, custom, or usage which requires a
proprietor to maintain fences, sign-boards, inclosures, or
sentinels about his property. Addison, in his work on
Torts,* says:
"If a man's land is not surrounded with an actual inclosure,
the law encircles it with an imaginary barrier, which to pass, is
to break and enter his close."
A wharfinger, no doubt, is bound to keep his wharf in a
proper condition for intercourse which he invites; but "a
mere passive acquiescence by the owner or occupier, in a
certain use of his land by others, involves no .liability."t
The court in its instruction discarded from its consideration
any duty on the part of the defendant to inquire into the
title to the property, of its condition, or of his own responsibility to mark where he went. The facts visible to him
were of themselves sufficient to put him upon his guard.
He saw an inclosure of the levee, and a railway passing
over a portion of it, and parties engaged in stripping the
wharf of its timbers, and things in confusion about him.
Chapter 6, 1.
t Bolch v. Smith, 7 Hurlstone & Norman, 736; Sweeny v. Railroad Co.,
10 Allen, 368.

654

RAILROAD COMPANY V.

"ANNING.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the person hurt.

Common sense would have told him as readily as a signboard, that such places were dangerous and to be avoided.
2. By force of the contract with Carvin the wharf at the
time of the accident was in his possession. The negligence,
if any there was, was his, not that of the company; and the
company is not responsible for any negligence by him or by
those employed by him. The general principle is now settled, that a person, either natural or artificial, is not liable
for the acts or negligence of another, unless the relation of
master and servant, or principal and agent, exist between
them; that when an injury is done to a person exercising
an independent employment, the party employing him is
not responsible to the person injured.* Nor will the reservation of the power to supervise or to inspect the work,
throw the liability upon the employer. This is the doctrine
laid down in the important English cases of Knight v. Fox,t
and Steel v. Southeastern Railroad Compdvy,j and affirmed in
our own courts.ยง
3. The wharf and batture back of it are in front of the
depot grounds of the corporation, and are at the termination
of the eastern line of the ferry across the Mississippi River,
as will appear from acts of the legislature of Louisiana,I
which the court will judicially notice. The construction of
the wharf was a stage in the construction of the road.
Now the statute of January 21st, 1870, expressly defined
and limited the liability of the railroad company, and declared that the company should not be liable for any injury
to persons which shall be caused by any act or omission of
any person contracting with the company to construct any
portion of its road, or to furnish any materials or labor to
be'used for such construction. This comprises exactly such
a case as the present, supposing that the injury was caused
by Carvin's neglect.
* Hilliard v. Richardson, 3 Gray, 359; Scammon v. City of Chicago, 25
Illinois, 425; Pack v. Mayor of New York, 4 Selden, 222.
$ 32 Id. 366.
t 1 English Law and Equity, 477.
Painter v. City of Pittsburg, 46 Pennsylvania State, 220.
A1cts of 1870, p. 57; Acts of 1868, p. 31.

Dec.

1872.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. HANNING.

655

Opinion of the court.

We conclude, that the corporation is not liable for an injury to the person of one who, having no business with
them, or inducement or invitation to come upon their property, came upon it for an idle promenade, and coming upon
it, found it in disorder and insecurity from the acts of a contractor engaged in repairing and reconstructing it, and without any agency on the part of the corporation, fell through
the floor.
Hir. T. J. Durant, contra.
Mr. Justice HUNT delivered the opinion of the court.
The first objection presented by the defendant below is,
that the wharf in question was not a public wharf; that the
plaintiff came upon the same without business, invitation,
or inducement; that he was a trespasser, and if he suffered
injury it was in consequence of his own wrong.
We are not furnished with the evidence necessary for the
decision of this question. The record does not state whether this was the wharf of an active steamboat company,
where all travellers were permitted and substantially invited
to come and go; whether the plaintiff was there upon the
special invitation of some one connected with the wharf;
whether by public use and general permission he might
deem himself invited to be there, or whether he was an idler
without pretence of right or business. The judge submitted
the question to the jury, whether the wharf, at the time of
the accident, was, and for many years had been, a public
place, upon which all people were permitted by law to come
and go, and did come and go at pleasure. The jury found
the affirmative of this proposition. The only evidence set
forth on this point contained in the record, is the legislative
resolution of March 6th, 1869, certain conveyances of property adjoining the wharf, as described in maps annexed, and
the contract of the company with Oarvin. -The resolution
authorizes the defendants to inclose and occupy for its use,
certain portions of the levee, batture, and wharf, in the city
of New Orleans, and provides that no vessel shall occupy

RAILROAD COMPANY V. HANNING.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

said wharf except by the permissioi of the company. The
contract with Carvin is important upon another branch of the
case, but has no significance upon the question of the manner
of occupying the wharf, or to show how or why the plaintiff
was on the wharf, at the time he received the injury. So
far as it states general rules and propositions, the charge of
the judge seems to be correct. Whether it was sound, as
applied to the case presented by the evidence, we have not
the means of ascertaining. No error appears, and we cannot
assume that it is erroneous.
The second objection urged by the defendant below, arises
upon the contract with Carvin, already mentioned. It is
insisted that the wharf at the time of the accident was in
the possession of Carvin; that the negligence, if any, vas
his, not that of the company; and that the company is not
responsible for any negligence by him or those employed by
him.
By this contract Carvin agrees: 1, to furnish the materials and the labor necessary for the rebuilding of the
wharf in question; 2, to build it with such mooring-posts,
cluster-piles for fenders every twenty feet, rows of piles on
boundary lines above and below, slips or inclines, as the
company, through their engineer, may require, making the
old wharf as good as new, and the new in the most workmanlike manner; 3, to complete the whole within a month;
4, to submit to the supervision and direction of the engineer
of the company; 5, to do the work to his satisfaction. The
company do not yield to Carvin the possession or control of
the wharf. They may direct the number of mooring-posts,
cluster-piles for fenders, rows of piles, slips, and inclines,
paying according to the number of square feet covered.
They are at liberty to direct how much material shall be
used, and how it shall be laid to make the old wharf as
good as new, and to make the new of the best workmanship.
They are to supervise the work to be done. They are to
direct how it shall be done. This includes the power of
controlling and managing the entire performance of the

Dec. 1872.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. HANNING.

657

Opinion of the court.

work, within the general limits mentioned. It includes the
possession of the wharf, the direction, management, and
control of all the details of the work. It makes Carvin their
agent and servant, receiving a larger or smaller compensation, as they may expand or contract his work.
The rule extracted from the cases is this: The principal
is liable for the acts and negligence of the agent in the
course of his employment, although he did not authorize
or did not know of the acts complained of* So long as
he stands in the relation of principal or master to the
wrongdoer, the owner is responsible for his acts. When
he ceases to be such and the actor is himself the principal
and master, not a servant or agent, he alone is responsible.
Difficult questions arise in the application of this rule. Nice
shades of distinction exist, and many of the cases are hard
to be reconciled. Here the general management and control of thp work was reserved to the company. Its extent
in many particulars was not prescribed. How and in what
manner the wharf was to be built was not pointed out.
That, rebuilt, was to be as good as new. The new was to
be of the best workmanship. This is quite indefinite and
authorizes not only, but requires a great amount of care and
direction on the part of the company. The submission of
the whole work to the direction of the company's engineer
is evidence, although not conclusive, that the company retain the management and control. The reservation of authority is both comprehensive and minute. The company
have the general control, and it may prescribe where each
pile shall go, where each plank shall be laid, where each
stringer shall be'put down, where each nail shall be driven.
All the details are to be completed under their orders and
according to their direction. The contractor undertakes in
general terms to do the work well. The company reserve
the power not only to direct what shall be done, but how it
shall be done. This is an important test of liability.t
Camp v. The Wardens,t was a case arising in Louisiana,
- Story on Agency, 452; 2 Addison on Torts, 343, 2d edition.
t Kelly v. Mayor, 11 New York, 432.
1 7 Louisiana Annual, 322.
42
VOL. XV.

658

RAILROAD COMPANY V. HANNING.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

and very much like the present in its facts. The owners
were there held liable. All the authorities are cited and
commented upon by the court, both of the common and the
civil law. The civil law, it was said, held the same rules on
this subject as the common law.*
In Painterv. Mayor,t Strong, J., holds the defendant not
to be liable, and says, "The defendants have no control over
the men employed by the contractors or over the contractors
themselves. They could not dismiss them or direct the
work." The cases are reviewed and the rule laid down as
it is herein above stated.
Knight v. Fox,j and Steel v. Southeastern Railroad Co.,ยง are
cited by the defendant. The first contains nothing in hostility to the suggestion made. In Steel v. Southeastern Railroad Co. it was held that the company was not liable for any
injury done by the contractor, and the contract contained
an authority to the company to superintend andtidirect the
work. The case shows that the act which caused the injury
was committed in violation of their orders. They expressly
forbade the digging of a certain channel. It was dug in
violation of this direction, and for the damage resulting
therefrom, the court held them not to be liable. This order
to the contrary does not necessarily exempt the principal,
but it is a circumstance of weight.l
It is said that by the act of the General Assembly, passed
January 21st, 1870, the liability of this corporation is defined in a number of cases. The second section of the act
declares "that the said corporation, its officers, or employ6s,
shall not, in any case, be liable for any debts contracted or
liabilities incurred by any person or persons who shall have
contracted, or who shall contract with it, to construct any porPothier on Obligations, 121, 453; Droit Civil, de Touillier, Book 2,
tit. 8, 284, vol. 2.
t 46 Pennsylvania State, 213.
+ 1 English Law and Equity, 477.
32 Id. 366.
Pack v. Mayor, 8 New York, 222; see also Storrs v. City of Utica, 17
Id. 104; Higgins v. The Watervliet Turnpike Co., 46 Id. 23; Robbins v.
Chicago, 4 Wallace, 679.

I)ec. 1872.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. HANNING.
Opinion of the court.

ion of its road, buildings, or appurtenances,or its rolling stock, or
to furnish any materials or labor to be usedfor such construction, or
for its maintenance or operation. Aor shall said company, its officers, or ermploygs, be liable for any injury to person or property,
or loss of life, which shall be caused by any act or omission of an~y
person or persons so contractingwith it, or any of his or their employ~s or agents."
This was doubtless intended as a declaration of the rights
of the company convenient to be embodied in its charter,
and is in affirmance of the existing law. It contains two
general principles: 1st, that the corporation shall not be
liable for the debts to third parties of those contracting to
construct its road or to furnish materials therefor. It would
not be upon general principles of law. The statement, in
fact, confers no exemption. 2d, that it shall nor be liable
for injury to person or property caused by the acts of such
contractors or their servants. In each of these instances the
exemption is in the case of contractors, who are themselve;
the principals, not when they are the agents or servants of
the company. In each case there could be no liability at
common law had the statute not been passed. We think
that, upon general principles of law, the company in this
case are responsible for the neglig~ce of Carvin, and that
this statute does not alter its position.
It would seem that, prior to the passage of the act authorizing the defendants to occupy and possess the wharf, it had
been open to the public, free to the passage of all, at their
pleasure to come and go. The judge charged, in substance,
that this right of passage to the public continued until some
notice should be given to those accustomed to use it that
their rights had ended. This principle is one of quite general application. A railroad or steamboat company, by the
departure and arrival of their conveyances, give an invitation to all who desire to approach their boats or cars to pass
over their wharf or platform. One accustomed so to pass
cannot be deemed a trespasser in repeating his act after a
new station or landing has been adopted and the cars or
boats have ceased to use the old one. To exclude the

UNITED STATES V.

BENNETT.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

passer's right so as to make him in"fault, and to prevent his
recovery for an injury sustained by leaving the place in a
bad condition, notice must have been given of its changed
character, and that the rights of passers are terminated.
This principle is so familiar, and exists in so many forms,
that it is unnecessary to elaborate it.*
Upon the whole record we are all of the opinion that the
judgment should be
AFFIRMED.

UNITED STATES

v.

BENNETT.

The act of Congress of the 11th of January, 1868, which enacted that from
andafter its passage no distilled spirits should be withdrawn or removed
from any warehouse for the purpose of transportation, &c., until the full
tax on such spirits had been duly paid to the collector of the proper
district, and repealed all acts and parts of acts inconsistent with its provisions, had no reference to distilled spirits which had been withdrawn
from a bonded warehouse for transportation before its enactment.
Hence, when prior acts authorized the removal for the purpose of transportation of distilled spirits without payment of duties on giving band,
and enacted also that in case any such bond should become forfeited by
breach of any of its obligations, the obligors in it should pay full duties
and 50 per cent. on them besides: held, that the statute of l1th January,
1868, was not operative to prevent a recovery on a bond given before its
passage, on a removal of spirits made when the bond was given.

to the Circuit Court for the Southern District of
Ohio; the case being thus:
By the acts of July 1st, 1862,t and July 18th, 1866,t it
was made lawful to transport distilled spirits without payment of taxes, from a bonded warehouse owned by the distiller to any general bonded warehouse used under the
internal revenue laws, upon giving a "transportation bond,"
and complying with certain regulations prescribed. One
duty of the party transporting, w.as the production to the
ERROR

* 2 Addison on Torts, 141; Corby v. Hill, 4 Common Bench, N. S. 556.

t Sections 46, 47, 12 Stat. at Large, 449.
Sections 40 et seq., 14 Id. 160, et seg.

