282

ERIE RAILWAY COMPANY V. PENNSYLVANIA.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

State to State, or upon the transporter because of such transportation.
But while holding this, we recognize fully the power of
each State to tax at its discretion its own internal commerce,
and the franchises, property, or business of its own corporations, so that interstate intercourse, trade, or commerce, be
not embarrassed or restricted. That must remain free.
The conclusion of the whole is that, in our opinion, the
act of the legislature of Pennsylvania of August 25th, 1864,
so far as it applies to articles carried through the State, or
articles taken up in the State and carried out of it, or articles
taken up without the State and brought into it, is unconstitutional and void.
JUDGMENT REVERSED,

proceedings

and the record is remitted for further

p e ACCORDANCE WITH THIS OPINION.

Mr. Justice SWAYKE (with whom concurred Mr. Justice
DAVIS), dissenting.
I dissent from the opinion just read. In my judgment,
the tax is imposed upon the business of those required to pay
it. The tonnage is only the mode of ascertaining the extent
of the business. That no discrimination is made between
freight carried wholly within the State, and that brought
into or carried through or out of it, sets this, as I think, in
a clear light, and is conclusive on the subject.

NOTE.

AT the same time with the preceding case was adjudged another, that of
ERIE RAILWAY COMPANY V. PENNSYLVANIA.

A case, like the preceding one, in error to the Supreme Court
of Pennsylvania. The plaintiff in error, in the present case, was
a corporation created by the State of New York, which by acts

Dec. 1872.] ERIE RAILWAY COMPANY V. PENNSYLVANIA.

288

Opinion of the court.
of the Pennsylvania legislature of February 16th, 1841, and
March 26th, 1846, was authorized to construct its railroad
through a portion of Pennsylvania, paying for the privilege the
annual sum of $10,000, and being subjected to taxation on so
much of its stock as equalled the cost of construction of that
part of its road situate in Pennsylvania, in the same manner
and at the same rate as other similar property was, or might
be, subject.
Under an act of Assembly of the State, of August 25th, 1864,
a tax was levied upon freight carried upon that portion of the
road situate in Pennsylvania, either taken up within the State
and carried out, or received by the company in another State
for the sole purpose of being brought within it, and actually so
brought. The question now was, whether that act, so far as it
taxed such freight, was constitutional. The Supreme Court of
Pennsylvania had held that it was. The case being brought
here, was elaborately and ably argued by Xiessrs. TV. TV. McFarlandand .J. W. Simonton,for the plaintiff in error; and by Mr.
Wayne ie Veigh, contra, for the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
Of necessity the arguments were to some extent similar to those
meant to be reported in the preceding case; but on both sides
they were presented with fresh aspects, and with varied illustrations.
Mr. Justice STRONG gave the judgment of the court.

ie stated briefly that the question presented in the case was
the same which the court had considered and answered in the
preceding one; and that for the reasons given in the opinion of
the court there, the act, so far as it taxed the sort of freight
above mentioned, was to be held unconstitutional. As in the
preceding case, therefore, the judgment of the Supreme Court
of Pennsylvania was reversed, and the record remitted for further proceedings in conformity with the opinion of this court.

