Dec. 1872.]

GRAND CHUTE V. WINEGAR.
Syllabus.

The Congress of the United States, recognizing the law as
laid down in the former decisions of this court, provided by
the act of March 3, 1865, for such cases of hardship as it
thought worthy of relief. Unless, therefore, the doctrine be
reviewed and placed on such basis of sound principle as
would do justice in all cases, I see no reason to make exceptions in favor of persons who, like the present defendant,
holding by virtue of his office the money of the United
States, delivered it into the hands of its enemies, without the
application of the slightest personal violence, or a moment's
imprisonment, or any attempt to seize his person or property, on the ground that they were able to do these things
and threatened to do them. Such excuse, easily made,
easily proved, hard to be confuted, is, in my judgment,
much weaker than that of theft admitted to be without fault
or fraud on the part of the depositary.

GRAND

CHUTE V. WINEGAR.

EAT LAw.]
1. On an issue of fact raised by a plea in abatement, where the defendant
holds the affirmative of the issue, and where the evidence (introduced
by the defendant himself) is all in favor of the plaintiff, positive and
uncontradicted, the court properly instructs the jury when it directs
them, as matter of law, to find the issue for the plaintiff.
2. To a suit on a bond the defendant, it would seem, may well enough.plead
both nil debdt and non estfedur. At least there is apparently no inconsistency in the pleas. It would therefore be a mistake in a court to
strike out a plea of non est factum because inconsistent with a plea of
nil debet; and if any prejudice occurred to the defendant by such striking
out, there would be difficulty in sustaining a judgment rendered for the
plaintiff. However, where it was plain that though such a plea was
technically struck out, no evidence was rejected on account of its absence, but that the defendant litigated every question of fact as fully as
if that pleading had remained, and that though much evidence offered
by the defendant was rejected, none was so rejected because of the absence of a proper plea, this court refused to reverse.

GRAND

CHUTE V. WINEGAR.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
3. A plea in bar, which is, in substance, the same as a plea in abatement,
already passed on by a jury against the party setting it up, is properly
stricken out by the court before trial.
4. In a suit against a municipal corporation by a bona fide holder of its
bonds, whose title accrued before maturity, the corporation cannot show
by way of defence, if the legal authority of the corporation to issue the
bonds is sufficiently comprehensive, a want of compliance on its part
with formalities required by the statute authorizing the issue of the
bonds, or show fraud in their own agents in issuing them. The cases of
Woods v. Lawrence County (I Black, 386); llercer County v. Hacket (1
-Wallace, 83) ; Gelpeke v. The City of Dubuque (Ib. 175) ; and Meyer v.
The City of Museatine (1b. 384), acted upon as settling the law on this
point.

ERRoR to the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of
Wisconsin; the case being thus:
By the first section of an act of the 10th of February,
1854, the legislature of Wisconsin authorized the boards of
supervisors of Grand Chute, Greenville, Hortonia, and certain other towns along the course of a contemplated plankroad in Wisconsin, named the Wolf River Branch Plankroad, to subscribe in behalf of said towns or any of them,
"under the restrictionsand conditions hereinafter named," to the
capital stock of the said plankrojid company, such amounts,
not exceeding $10,000, for any one town, as may be declared
by the board of directors of said company necessary for the completion of said road at the time of such subscription, and to pay
for the same in bonds of the town or towns so subscribing,
payable in fifteen years from the date thereof with interest,
at a rate not exceeding ten per cent. per annum, payable
annually, at such place within or without the boundaries of
this State as shall be therein named.
Subsequent sections of the act read thus:
"SECTION 6. No bonds shall be issued by any town in pursuance of this act, unless a majority of the votes cast in said
town, at the election hereinafter mentioned, shall be in favor of
the same.
" SECTION 7. A special election shall be called and held in each
of the towns before named, for the purpose of carrying this act
into effect within six months after ihe passage of this act. At

Dec. 1872.]

GRAND CHUTE V. WINEGAR.

Statement of the case.
such election, those voting in favor of the subscription of stock,
and the issuing of bonds in accordance with the provisions of
this act, shall put in ballots having inscribed on them the words
'FoR THE ROAD,' and those voting against such subscription and
issue of such bonds, shall put in ballots inscribed with the words
'AGAINST THE ROAD.' Notice of such election shall be given
for two weeks successively next preceding said election, in some
newspaper printed in the county where the town so voting is
situated. And such" elections and the canvass thereof, shall be
held at the same place, and conducted by the same persons, and
in the same manner in all respects as the annual town meetings
of each town."
On the 12th of March, 1855, certain bonds were issued in
form thus:

[No. 5.]
TOWN OF GRAND CHUTE BOND.

Whereas, the legislature of the State of Wisconsin, on the
tenth day of February, A.D. 1854, passed an act authorizing
and empowering the board of supervisors of the town of Grand
Chute to subscribe, for the town of Grand Chute, ten thousand
dollars to the capital stock of the Wolf River Branch Plankroad
Company, and to pay for the same in the bonds of the town,
payable in fifteen years; and whereas the said board of supervisors, at a meeting of their board, did agree, by resolutions of
said board, to subscribe'the sum of $10,000 to the stock of the
Wolf River Branch Plankroad Company, and that the said
town issue bonds to the amount of said subscription to the said
plankroad company, and that the said bonds be signed by the
chairman of said board, under the seal of said town:
Now, therefbre, for the purpose of carryingout the provisionsof
the said act of the legislature, and in accordance with the resolutions of the said board as aforesaid.:
Know all men by these presents that the town of Grand
Chute, in the county of Outagamic, and State of Wisconsin, is
held and firmly bound unto the Wolf River Branch Plankroad
Company, or bearer', in the sum of ONE THOUSA.ND DOLLARS, lawful money of the United States of America, to be paid to said
plankroad 'company, or bearer, or their successors or assigns,
for which full payment, well and truly to be made, the said

GRAND CHUTE V.

WINEGAR.

[Sup. Gt.

Statement of the case.
town binds itself firmly by these presents, and hereby pledges,
irrevocably, the said stock and the proceeds thereof. Dated the
12th day of March, A.D. 1855. Sealed with the seal of said
town.
The condition of the above obligation is such, that if the said
town of Grand Chute shall pay, or cause to be paid, to the said
Wolf River Branch Plankroad Company, or their successors or
assigns, or to the bearer hereof, the just and full sum of one
thousand dollars in fifteen years from the 12th day of March,
A.D. 1855, with interest annually at the rate of 10 per cent. per
annum until paid, said principal and interest to be paid at Ap.
pleton, in the State of Wisconsin, then the above obligation to
be void; otherwise to remain in full force and virtue.
[SEAL.]

THEODORE CONKEY,
Chairman of Board of Supervisors town of Grand Chute.

To the bond were annexed fifteen coupons, in form thus:

[No. 1.]
The town of Grand Chute will pay to the holder hereof,
eighty-eight and .,%% dollars on the first day of February, 1856,
at Appleton, Wisconsin, on the presentation hereof, being the
interest du6 that day on the bond of said town, No. 5.
THEODORE CONKEY,

Chairman.

Nine of these bonds with the coupons being in the control or ownership of one Winegar, he brought suit against
the town of Grand Chute in April, 1870, in the court below, describing himself as "a citizen of the State of New
York." The town of Grand Chute pleaded in abatement,
to the effect that the Circuit Court of the United States had
no jurisdiction over the action for the reason that at the
time of the commencement of the action, a portion of the
bonds ($5500) sought to be recovered, were held and owned
by one Henry Hewett, and the residue by one Theodore
Conkey; that Conkey and Hewett were the real plaintiffs
in interest in the action, that they were citizens of the
State of Wisconsin, and, therefore, that the court could
not take cognizance of the action. The plea in. abatement
further alleged that the bonds were not issued in good faith

Dec. 1872.]

GRAND CHUTE V. WINEGAR.
Statement of the case.

or for any valuable consideration, but were procured and
issued by the fraudulent contrivance of Hewett, Conkey,
and one Reeder Smith, who was the president of the plankroad company for whose benefit the bonds were authorized
to be issued, and the substance of the fraud was briefly
stated. Issue was joined on this plea, and the deposition of
the plaintiff, Winegar, was himself taken by the defedait to
prove the affirmative of it. Winegar swore that he purchased the bonds of Goodwin, as the agent of Hewett, at
the First National Bank of Union Springs, Cayuga County,
N. Y., for $5100, payable $2500 in one year, and $2600 payable in two years, with 7 per cent. interest. That he had negotiated for the bonds a year and a half or two years before
he purchased; that he purchased the bonds in January,
1870; purchased them for speculation; that he "had no
reason to believe that they were any other than good and
valid bonds;" that he "so believed at the time he made the
purchase; that the purchase was made by him in good ftith
and without any knowledge or infbrmation that they were
other than good and valid bonds; that he in equal good fiith
gave his notes, and that they would be met;" that he lived
at Union Springs, Cayuga County, N. Y.; that he was the
teller of a bank there, and had lived there for nearly four
years before be brought the suit. He testified also that he
never had the bonds in his possession, that he had a bill of
sale of them, and they were subject to his order, and that the
bill of sale was signed by Goodwiu as the agent of lewett,
the seller. The court directed the jury on this evidencethe only evidence taken on the issue raised by the plea in
abatement-to find the issue for the plaiutiffE An exception
was taken to the direction.
After this decision of the plea in abatement, the plaintiff
asked for final judgment in his favor on the verdict, which
the court declined to grant. Thereupon the town of Grand
Chute put in nine special pleas, of which certain ones only
need be mentioned.
1st. .Lil.debet.
2d. Nfon est factum.

GRAND

CHUTE V. WINEGAR.

[Sup. @t.

Statement of the case.

3d. That the act authorizing the town of Grand Chute to
subscribe fbr plankroad stock and issue bonds in payment,
"was not published pursuant to the constitution and laws
of said State of Wisconsin, at or prior to the time of the
calling, holding and canvass of the special election prescribed
by said act, to wit: on the 20th day of May, 1854."
4th. That the town of Grand Chute was not authorized
to subscribe to the stock of the plaukroad in question.
5th. That the board of directors of the plankroad company had not declared, as the 1st section of the act required
them to do, what "amount was necessary for the completion
of the road."
7th. That no special election, such as the act prescribed,
had been called or held, previous to the issue of the bonds.
8th. That Hewett owned $5500 of the bonds in suit, that
Conkey owned the residue, and that they, and not Winegar,
were the real parties in interest in the action. That the
bonds were not issued in good faith or for any valid consideration, but were procured by fraud, deception, and by
collusion between Hewett, Conkey, and Reeder Smith, president and general agent of the plankroad company, in pursuance of a corrupt agreement, whereby Smith received a
contract at an extravagant price and Conkey received the
privilege of paying off the workmen- from his store at a
large profit; that a change in location was made to the injury of the road, but for the benefit of the conspirators; that
Hewett signed a writing purporting to bind him, and that
the bonds were fraudulently delivered to Hewett before he
had performed any part of the work or even commenced it.
The plea was a very long plea, covering nearly four pages
of twice as much type as one of the ordinary pages of these
Reports; it amplified all the above matter; inserted copies
of the agreement with Hewett, and specified the mode and
manner in which the fraud was alleged to have been effected.
[The reader will observe that this eighth plea resembled
the plea in abatement already mentioned.]
9th. That the bonds were not executed and delivered to
the plankroad company for the purpose of carrying out the

Dec. 1872.]

GRAND

CHUTE V. WINEGAR.

Statement of the case.

provisions of any act of the legislature, or for ai valid consideration; that the company did not sell the same to bond
fide holders for a valuable consideration; that the same had
not passed from hand to hand like other negotiable securities,
and had not as such come to the hands of the plaintiff: that
they were a part of $10,000 of bonds procured to be issued
by fraud and deception, and by collusion between Conkey,
chairman of the town board, Smith, president of the plankroad company, and Hewett, a contractor, and divers other
persons, and in pursuance of a conspiracy for the purpose
of defrauding the defendant and the creditors and stockholders of the plankroad company. The plea contained
other allegations of the same general character.
These pleas being filed, the plaintiff moved the court to
strike off the second of them, as inconsistent with the first;
and also to strike off the eighth, as embracing the same
matter as was in the plea in abatement. This motion the
court granted, the defendant excepting.
The plaintiff then filed replications to the first and fourth
pleas, and demurred to the third, fifth, seventh, and ninth.
The court sustained the demurrers.
On the trial of the issues of fact, the plaintiff offered to
read the act of the Wisconsin legislature, of February 10th,
1854, in evidence, and the defendant objected, because it
had no applicability to the case, and did not authorize the
issuing of the bonds. The court, however, allowed the act
to be read, and also tfie bonds and coupons.
The plaintiff, after having put in his bonds and coupons,
here rested.
The defendant, on its part, offered to read in evidence the
deposition of the plaintiff; Winegar, it being the same that
was read on the issue in abatement. The plaintiff objected,
on the ground that the same was incompelent, irrelevant, and
inmmaterial, and that the same was not admissible under
the pleadings. The court sustained the objection, and ruled
out the deposition; the defendant excepting.
The defendant then offered the record of a suit brought
in the court below, October 21st, 1861, iia the name of Renry

GRAND

CHUTE V. WINEGAR.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

Decker, Jr., against the town of Grand Chute, on some of
the same coupons which appeared in this action; the record
being offered to show that the bonds and coupons were in
litigation at that early date. The record showed a suit
begun, carried on to a certain point, and then before trial
discontinued. The court ruled the record out on the ground
of irrelevancy; the defendant excepting.
The defendant then offered the record of a suit brought
in the Circuit Court of Wisconsin, November 17th, 1856, in
the name of the Wolf River Branch Plankroad Company,
for the use of Henry Hewett, against the town of Grand
Chute; also, the record of an action brought in the same
court, August 28th, 1857, in the name of the State of Wisconsin, ex rel. Henry Hewett v. The Board of Supervisors of the
Town of Grand Chute; also, the record of an action brought
in the same court, September 9th, 1857, in the name of
He'nry fHewett v. The Town of Grand Chute, together with the
certified copy of the opinion of the Supreme Court of the
State of Wisconsin, on appeal in the action, given September
10th, 1858; all being offered to show the pendency of actions
involving the validity of the same bonds and coupons in
question in this action, prior to the time that this plaintiff,
Win egar, pretended to have become the bond fide owner,
holder, and bearer of the said bonds and coupons, and that,
therefore, it was impossible for him to be what he professed
to be.
[The said suits showed that the subject-matter of this
action was in litigation before and at the several times
when the said several suits were pending, and that the said
suits were discontinued several years before this action was
brought.]
The plaintiff's counsel objected to all this evidence on the
ground of irrelevancy; and the court ruled it out, the defendant excepting.
The defendant's counsel then offered in evidence a bill in
equity, filed in the court below on the 5th day of August,
1870, wherein the town of Grand Chute was complainant,
and Winegar, Hewett, Conkey, and Goodwin defendants,

Dec. 1872.]

GRAND

CHUTE V.

WINEGAR.

Statement of the case.

and also offered in evidence all the papers and records in
the case, including the demurrer to the bill of complaint.
This bill was one charging that the bonds and coupons
now in suit had been issued without authority, in violation
of law, and in fraud of the town of Grand Chute, by Goodwin, Hewett, and Conkey; that, for the reasons set forth in
the bill, they had no legal force or validity; that the transfer
of the same to Winegar was colorable merely; that he was a
man of no responsibility; that he paid no valuable consideration on the pretended purchase; that he knew all the facts
in relation to their issue, and that he never had any right or
title to said pretended bonds, or to any of them. It further alleged that Winegar was a citizen of the State of N~ew
York, and that the other defendants were citizens of Wisconsin, and that Winegar had commenced an action in the
Circuit Court of the United States for Wisconsin against
the town of Grand Chute, to recover the amount of the said
Iiine bonds. The bill prayed that an injunction might be
issued restraining Winegar and his confederates from the
further prosecution of the bonds, and that the same be adjudged to be fraudulent and void, and be decreed to be cancelled. The record offered showe'd that the bill had been
demurred to; that no injunction had issued on the bill, and
that the bill itself had been dismissed. The plaintiff objected to the evidence on the ground of irrelevan&y and innateriality, and because it was inadmissible under the pleadings. The court ruled, out the evidence deciding that the
same was "not proper:" the defendant excepting: the court
equally ruling out the record when in addition it showed an
appeal, undetermined, to this court.*
The defendant then offered town records of Grand Chute,
and evidence to show that some of the facts recorded in
them as true about these bonds were not true; and that
after a location of the road had been actually fixed on, it
had been changed to a different one, for the benefit of persons interested in the bonds, and to the disadvantage of the
* See infra, p. 373.

GRAND CHUTE V. W.INEGAR.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the town of Grand Chute.

Town of Grand Chute; and that persons who were interested
in having the bonds issued had by fraudulent means procured them to be issued. But the court refused to let any
of the evidence, or any of the same sort, of which there was
a good deal, go in; there being nothing in any of it tending
to show that the plaintiff had anything to do with any of
these alleged frauds; ever knew of them before he got his
bonds, or was other than a bondfide holder of them for value.
Under instructions of the court the jury found a verdict
for the plaintiff; and judgment going accordingly, the defendant brought his numerous exceptions already mentioned
here.
Mr. G. W. Laldn, for the plaintiff in error:
1. The court erred in peremptorily ordering a verdict for
the plaintiff on the issue raised by the plea in abatement.
The -defendant went into the enemy's camp for testimony.
Hle extorted from the plaintiff a few facts reluctantly given'.
It was the constitutional right of the defendant that the jury
should weigh the testimony and return a verdict agreeably
to their convictions. To instruct the jury "to find the issue
for the plaintiff," was an'arbitrary infringement of that common law and constitutional right.
2. The court erred in ordering the second plea, that of non
est facton, to be struck out. The alleged reason was that it
was iuconsistent with the first plea. But the law of pleading does not require that one separate and independent plea
shall be consistent with another separate and independent
plea. Each plea stands or falls by its merits. The reason
which was the basis of the ruling, if it were true, would be
no sufficient reason. But it is not true. How is nil debet
inconsistent with non est factum?.? The defendant "owes
nothing"-the bonds "are not its deed." It owes nothing,
because the bonds are not its deed-because they arh a forgery, a fraud, were made without authority. So far from
being inconsistent, the second plea is a logical reason for the
first.
3. The court erred equally in striking out the eighth plea.

Dec. 1872.]

GRAND CHUTE V. WrEGAR.
Argument for the town of Grand Chute.

Its object, end, and aim were different from the object, end,
and aim of the plea in abatement. One sought to abate;
the other to bar. It set forth facts sufficient to bar. The
plea, in abatement, so far as it did more than set up the pretended citizenship of Winegar, was surplusage.
4. The court erred in sustaining a demurrer to the third
plea, which sets up the non-publication of the act of the
legislature under which the bonds purport to have been
issued.-'
5. The court erred in sustaining a demurrer to the fifth
plea. The act, under and by virtue of which the plaintiff
pretends that the bonds were issued, and which act is referred to on the face of the bonds and in the declaration as
the only foundation thereof, limits all concerned. The subscriptions are not to exceed $10,000, and, before they can
exceed one dollar, a prerequisite is interposed. It must be
ascertained definitely, in due form, by the declaration of the
board of directors, what sum is necessary for the completion
of the road. Until that is done there is no authority to subscribe a dollar. Such declaration, by the act, is designated
as the corner-stone of the contemplated edifice. The plea
declares its non-existence. The legislative act must be followed, or else it may as well be dispensed with altogether.
No one pretends that, without it, the bonds would be legal,
or good for anything. How can they be valid without any
attempt at complying with its most prominent and essential
provision; that which may be denominated its jurisdictional
provision ?
6. The court erred in sustaining a general demurrer to
the seventh plea, which alleges that no special election, such
as is prescribed in said act of February 10th, 1854, was balled
or held, previous to the issue of the bonds, &c. The act absolutely prohibits the issuing of any bonds, until that election is had. And here it stands admitted on the record that
no election was had. And the court overrides the law, and
adjudges that no election was necessary. To adjudge that
The Town of-Rochester v. The Alfred Bank, 13 Wisconsin, 432.

GRAND CHUTE V. WINEGAR.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the town of Grand Chute.

no act at all was necessary as a foundation for the issue of
the bonds would be as reasonable.
7. There was error in sustaining a general demurrer to
the ninth plea. The demurrer admits the truth of all that
is alleged in the plea. It places Winegar in no better position for a recovery than are the real parties who stand behind him. And it then shows the numerous acts of fraud,
collusion, and conspiracy which taint the whole thing and
render the paper void. Even if Winegar were the actual
purchaser of the void bonds, which were issued without
authority of law, he could not recover. 31arsh v. Fulton
County* decides that point and disposes of the case.
So the case of Smith v. Sac Coudty,t the bonds sued on
there belonged to the same class as the bonds here. In
that case the bonds were fair on their face, and payable to
bearer. But Meservy, a contractor to whom they issued,
and the county judge had a fraudulent understanding about
them. After the negotiable paper had been "concocted"
and the official seal affixed by the judge, one of the $1000
bonds was immediately presented by Meservy to him.
This court says:
" That the bonds should turn up in the possession of some one
else was to be expected. But, to hold that after all this was
shown in defence, such holder should have judgment on these
bonds, without any proof that he purchased them for value, or
that he gave any consideration for them at all, is, in our judgment, pushing the doctrine which gives sanctity to negotiable
paper beyond any just principle or any decided case."
The court held the bonds void. There was no element of
fraud in that case which does not appear in the case at bar.
"That the bonds should turn up in the possession of some
one else" (Winegar) "was to be expected." Conkey, Hewett
& Co. had long been scheming. They at last conceived the
plan of having the bonds transferredfor value. And the
plaintiff was selected as the transferee, and his notes the value.
In Smith v. Sac County all forms and precedents were ob* 10 Wallace, 680.

t 11 Id. 189.

:Dec. 1872.]

GRAND CHUTE V. WINEGAR.
Argument for the town of Grand Chute.

served in the creation of the bonds. The proper officer
issued, sealed, and delivered them to Mfeservy. the contractor, who immediately bestowed one of them, of the denomination of $1000, on the judge.
8. The court erred in allowing the bonds and coupons to be
read in evidence. Without some valid act of the legislature
with which the bonds can be identified as their foundation,
and as their authority for being issued, they are surely void.
9. The court erred in ruling out the deposition of the
plaintiff, Winegar, offered to be read by the defendant at the
trial. It was certainly competent for the defendant to show
on the trial that the plaintiff had notice of the nature, character, and the frauds connected and identified with the
bonds; when, where, and how he came by them; whether
he gave any, and what value for them? The defendant had
a legal right to testimony of the plaintiff when he spoke on
these points, and to make the most of it, as coming 'from
the party whose interest was largely in favor of a recovery.
Whatever spark of testimony could be obtained from it,
which pointed the other way, could be fastened upon. A
few such sparks were evolved; and the defendant had a
right to them, and to point them out, and to urge them to
thejury. "Incompetency," "irrelevancy," "im'materiality,"
and "inadmissibility," were the alleged grounds of rejecting
the testimony. But it is clear that nothing beyond those
naked terms was ever manifested to the parties, or to their
counsel, to show why the testimony of the adverse party
was thus summarily rejected.
10. There was error in rejecting the several records offered in evidence by the defendant, which showed that coupons of these bonds had been repeatedly litigated in'courts
of record without a recovery ever being had upon them.
The records show what defences were interposed, and that
the character of these bonds and coupons was made public
very soon after their issue.
11. There was error in rejecting the bill in equity, and
the records in the case, on the equity side of the court below.
That bill was filed in the same court in which the action at

GRAND

CHUTE V.

WINEGAR.

[Sup. Gt.

Opinion of the court.

law was pending. It commenced at the root of the fraud
and traced it connectedly down. It proceeded against all
the fraudulent parties. The bill sought to have the bonds
cancelled of record. N.To clearer case of fraud brought home
to and identified with the plaintiff in the action at law,
Winegar, the pretended owner of the bonds, can be stated
than is stated in the bill. The equity suit covered the whole
ground. The demurrer admitted the truth of every allegation; and why, with the whole bill thus admitted to be
true, the court ruled out the bill and the whole record, we
know not.
12. There was error in ruling out the town records, and
the proof offered of the changing of the location of the road
for the benefit of the parties who procured the issuing of
the bonds. And in ruling out the offer to show that the
bonds were procured to be issued by fraudulent means, by
persons who were interested in their being issued, and error
in other rulings, as well as in the charge of the court to
return a verdict for the plaintiff.
lr. -.

L. Palmer, contra.

Mr. Justic6 HUNT delivered the opinion of the court.
The first alleged error of which complaint is now made
is the direction of the court to the jury that they find the
issue for the plaintiff on the plea of abatement where issue
had been joined and testimony taken. The defendant held
the affirmative of the issue, and attempted to sustain his
case by calling Winegar, the plaintiff on the record.
Winegar swore that he had purchased the bonds on which
the suit was brought of Goodwin; that he was the absolute
owner of them; that he gave for them his notes for $5100,
payable in one and two years, at seven per cent. interest,
and that the purchase was made in good faith, with no
knowledge or information that the bonds were not valid
and with no reason to believe they were not. Hie testified
also that he never bad the bonds in his possession, that he
had a bill of sale of them, and they were subject to his

Dec. 1872.]

GRAND

CHUTE V.

WINEGAR.

Opinion of the court.

order, and that the bill of sale was signed by Goodwin as
the agent of Hewett, the seller.
There was no evidence here that would have justified a
finding by the jury that Winegar was not the bond fide
owner for value of the bonds in suit. iHe was the defendant's witness, and no other witness was called upon the
issue. If the jury had found otherwise it would have been
the duty of the judge to set aside the verdict as unsupported
by evidence and in hostility to all the evidence given. There
was no error in this charge.
Upon the decision of the plea in abatement the plaintiff
asked for final judgment in his favor upon the verdict. Of
the refusal to comply with this request, the plaintiff makes
complaint, but as he ultimately succeeded in the suit, that
result wipes out all exceptions on his part. Upon this refusal the defendant interposed nine special pleas. The
plaintiff moved to strike from the record the second ok the
said pleas as being inconsistent with the fact, and this motion was granted. The first of the said pleas was that the
defendant did not owe the moneys demanded or any part
thereof in manner and form as the plaintiff had complained
against it. The second plea was that the said supposed
writings were not, nor were any of them, the eed of the
defendant. It is not easy to see the inconsistency of these
two defences. If the defendant bad never executed the
bonds, it would be very likely it did not owe the moneys in
them agreed to be paid. So again it might well be that if
it did not owe the money it had never executed the bonds.
If not an error in striking out the second plea, there certainly was an erroneous reason given for it. If any prejudice had occurred to the defendant from striking out the
plea of non estfacturn there would be difficulty in sustaining
the judgment. But the record shows none. Indeed it is
evident that although the plea was technically excluded, no
evidence was rejected on account of its absence, but that
the defendant litigated every question of fact as far and as
fully as it would have done if this pleading had remained.
Numerous offers of evidence were indeed objected to by the
VoL. xv.

24

GRAND CHUTE V. WINEGAR.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

plaintiff and rejected by the court, but the objection was, in
a few instances, only based on the character of the pleadings
and then in connection with the objection of irrelevancy and
incompetency. In no instance was the rejection placed upon
the absence of a proper plea. The objection was sometimes
expressed to be on the ground of the irrelevance and immateriality of the evidence offered, and in the remaining instances it is evident, from the nature of the offers, that the
objection and decision were upon that ground. Among
these were the offers of the pleadings in the equity suit still
undecided, and again after its dismissal, and including his
own bill of complaint, also the book of records of the town
clerk's office, also the location of the plankroad, also that it
was changed to a different route for the benefit of the parties who procured the issuing of the bonds, and much other
evidence of a similar character. It does not appear that
any evidence on the point of the actual signing and delivering of the bonds was rejected by the court, or that any harm
was sustained by the defendant, from the absence of his plea
of non est factum.
A further answer to this objection is given in the plaintiff's
brief, to sit: that the allowance of double pleas and defences
is not a matter of absolute right, but of discretion in the
court, and that the courts constantly exercise their discretion
in controlling this privilege by disallowing sham or inconsistent pleas.*
The eighth plea was, on motion of the plaintiff, stricken
out for the avowed reason that it embraced the same matters
as had already been set up and passed upon in the plea in
abatement. The pleas are the same in substance and effect.
The eighth plea contains the same matter which is in the
fifth, though in the eighth it is set forth with much fulness
of detail, giving copies of the agreement with Hewett, and
specifying the mode and manner in which the fraud, which
both the pleas set up, was alleged to have been effected.
* See the language of Mr. Justice Story in Ex parte Davenport, 6 Peters,
661.

Dec. 1872.]

GRAND CHUTE V. WINEGAR.
Opinion of the court.

The two pleas are, however, as has been already said, the
same in substance and effect. A party having his plea in
abatement passed upon by a jury, and found against him,
is not permitted to set up the same matter in bar and again
to go to the jury upon it.*
Numerous objections were taken, and in a variety of forms,
which fall within the principles of Knox County v. Asphnwall,t
XIcreer County v. Haclcett,j and Meyer v. The City of Museatine.ยง The mQst of the objections, which we have already
referred to, were decided not upon the pleadings, but upon
the principle of these cases. In Knox Counly v. Asptinwall
Mr. Justice Nelson thus states the question: "The main
ground of the defence relied upon to defeat the recovery is,
that the defendant, the board of commissioners, possessed
no authority to execute, or to authorize to be executed, the
bonds in question, and hence that they are obligations not
binding upon the County of Knox, which this board represents. Our chief inquiry, therefore, will be whether or not
these several obligations were executed and put into circulation as evidence of indebtedness by competent legal authority." Upon the inquiry thus put the decision is stated
by the reporter in the following language: "Where the
statute of a State provided that the board of commissioners
of a county should have power to subscribe for railroad
stock, and issue bonds therefor, in case a majority of the
voters of the county should so determine after a certain
notice should be given of the time and place of election, and
the board subscribed for the stock and issued the bonds,
purporting to act in compliance with the statute, it is too
late to call in question the existence or regularity of the
notices in a suit against them by the holders of the coupons
attached to the bonds, who were innocent holders. In such
a suit, according to the true interpretation of the statute, the
board were the proper judges whether or not a majority of
the votes of the county had been cast in favor of the sub1 Obitty on Pleading, 457 a; Coxe v. Higbee, 6 Halsted, 395.
Ib. 384.
$ 1 Wallace, 83.
21 Howard, 539.

GRAND

CHUTE V.

WINEGAR.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of the court.

scription. The bonds on their face import a compliance
with the law under which'they were issued, and the purchaser was not bound to look further for evidence of a compliance with the condition of the grant of the power."
In Woods v. Lawrence County,* it was held that where the
statute requires the grand jury to fix the amount of a subscription to railroad stock, and to approve of it, and upon
their report being filed empowers commissioners to carry
the same into effect by making its subscription in the name
of the county, and if these things be done agreeably to the
law, the county cannot afterwards deny its obligation to pay
the amount subscribed. In a suit brought to recover the
arrears of interest on such bonds, it is not necessary for the
holder to show that the grand jury fixed the manner and
terms of paying for the stock; nor is it a defence for the
county to show that the grand jury omitted to do so. It is
enough that the manner and terms of payment were agreed
upon between the company and the commissioners. In a
suit brought upon the coupons by a bond fide holder, his
right to recover is not affected by the fact that the railroad
company sold the bonds at a discount of twenty-five per cent.
contrary to the charter, which forbids the sale of them at
less than their par value.
In Mercer County v. Jlackett,t it was held that where a
county issues its bonds payable to bearer, and solemnly
pledges the faith and credit and property of the county,
under authority of an act of the Assembly, referred to on the
face of the bonds by date, and the bonds pass into the hands
of a bo-n fide holder for value, the county is bound to pay
them; that it is no defence that the act of the Assembly referred to on the face of the bonds authorized their issue
only on, and subject to, certain "limitations, restrictions,
and conditions," which have not been formally complied
with, nor that the bonds were sold at less than par when
the act authorizing their issue declared that they should in
"no case," nor "under any pretence," be so sold, and that
* I Black, 386.

t

Dec. 1872.]

GRAND

CHUTE V. WINEGAR.

Syllabus.

the bonds are in the nature of negotiable instruments. The
same principles are announced in Gelpele v. The aly of
Dubuque,* and in Meyer v. The City of Muscatine.t In the
latter case the court say that if the legal authority was sufficiently comprehensive, a bond fide holder for value has a
right to presume that all precedent requirements have been
complied with.
lBy the act of February 10, 1854, the legislature of Wisconsin authorized the supervisors of the town of Grand
*Chuteto make a plankroad subscription to the amount of
ten thousand dollars. The bonds in question were signed
by the chairman of the board of supervisors of that town,
and recited that the subscription had been made by the
supervisors of the town, and that these bonds were issued
in pursuance thereof for the purpose of carrying out the
provision of that act. The plaintiff was the bonafide holder
for value of the bonds in suit, and his title accrued before
their maturity. The cases cited are an answer to the numerous offers to show want of compliance with the forms of
law, or to show fraud in their own agents. There are some
other exceptions which it is not necessary to copsider in
detail.
After a careful examination of the whole case, we are of
the opinion that the judgment should be
AFFIRMED.

GRAND CHUTE v. WINEGAR.

[I- EQUITY.]
A municipal corporation, obligors in a bond, cannot ask relief in equity
that the obliges be enjoined from proceeding at law, and that the bond
be surrendered, when his bill alleges that the bond was issued without
authority, in violation of law and in fraud of the town; that the obligee
* I "Wallace, 175.

t Id. 384.

GRAND CHUTE V.

WINEGAR.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
knew this when he took it; that the obligee's possession is merely colorable, and that he gave no value for it, and never had any right or title
to the bond. Such allegations show a complete defence to the bond at
law; and a judgment against the obligee at law would give as fall protection every way to the obligor as a decree in equity.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Eastern District
of Wisconsin.

The town of Grand Chute, in Wisconsin, filed its bill on
the equity side of the court below against one Winegar;.
three other persons, Goodwin, Hewett, and Conkey, being
also made defendants.
It set forth that Winegar had
brought suit on the law side of the same court against the
town to recover from it the amount of certain bonds-nine
in number, and for the sum of $8500 in all-purporting to
have been issued by the said town; that the bonds were
issued without authority, in violation of law, and in fraud
of the town, by the other defendants, Goodwin, Hewett,
and Conkey; that for reasons set forth in the bill the bonds
had no legal force or validity; that the transfer of them to
Winegar was colorable merely; that he paid no valuable
consideration on the pretended purchase; that though he
had given his notes for them, he was a bankrupt and altogether "irresponsible in a financial point of view;" that he
knew all the facts in relation to the issue, and that he never
had any right or title to the said pretended bonds, or to any
of them. It was further alleged that Winegar was a citizen
of the State of iNew York, and that the other defendants
were citizens of Wisconsin. The bill prayed that an injunction might be issued restraining Winegar and his con'federates from the further prosecution of suit on the bonds,
and that the bonds themselves might be adjudged to be
fraudulent and void, and be decreed to be cancelled. To
this bill the defendants demurred. The demurrer was sustained in the court below, and the complainant now appealed to this court.
Mr. G. W. Lakin, for the'aprellant; Mr. -.
contra.

L. Palmer,

Dec. 1872.]

GRAND CHUTE V. WINEGAR.
Opinion of the court.

Air. Justice HIUNT delivered the opinion of the court.
The inquiry at once suggests itself upon reading the bill
in this case, why does the plaintiff file it? Can any relief
be had in this suit which could not be obtained in the suit
sought to be enjoined? It is an elementary principle of
equity law that, when full and adequate relief can be obtained in a suit at law, a suit in equity cannot be maintained.
In .Hippv. Babin-- the court say: "The bill in this case is in
substance and legal effect an ejectment bill. The title appears by the bill to be merely legal, the evidence to support
it appears from documents accessible to either party, and no
particular circumstances are stated showing the necessity of
the court's interfering, either fbr preventinlg suits or other
vexation, or for preventing an injustice irremediable at law.
In Welby v. Duke of .Rutlknd,t it is stated that the general
practice of courts of equity in not entertaining suits for establishing legal titles, is founded upon clear reasons, and the
departing from that practice where there is no necessity for
so doing, would be subversive of the legal and constitutional
distinctions between the different jurisdictions of law and
equity. .

.

. Agreeably hereto, the established and uni-

versal practice of courts of equity is to dismiss the plaintiff's
bill if it appears to be grounded on a title merely legal, and
not cognizable by them, notwithstanding the defendant has
answered the bill and insisted on matter of title." After
citing numerous other authorities, the matter is thus
summed up: "And the result of the argument is, that
whenever a court of law is competent to take cognizance of
a right and has power to proceed to a judgment which
affbrds a plain, adequate, and complete remedy, without the
aid of a court of equity, the plaintiff must proceed at law,
because the defendant has a constitutional right to a trial

by jury." The right to a trial by jury is a great constitutional right, and it is only in exceptional cases and for
specified causes that a party may be deprived of it. It is in
vindication of this great principle, and as declaratory of the
*19 Howard, 271.

t 2 Brown's Parliamentary Cases, 42.

GRAND

CHUTE V.

WINEGAR.

[Sup. Or.

Opinion of the court.

common law, that the Judiciary Act of 1789, in its sixteenth
section, declares "that suits in equity shall not be sustained
in either of the courts of the United States in any case where
adequate and complete remedy may be had at law."*
A demurrer having been interposed to the present bill,
all of its allegations are to be taken as true. This is so both
in favor of the plaintiff and against him. It seems quite
clear upon the statements of the bill that the defence to the
suit at law upon the bonds is adequate and complete. Thus,
the bonds, it is alleged, were issued without authority and
in fraudulent violation of the duty of those having the subject in charge. It is not suggested that there is any difficulty, either legal or practical, in establishing these facts by
competent proof. If proven, they furnish as complete a
defence to the suit at law to recover the amount of the bonds
as they do in equity. In e'ach suit the question arises, were
they received by Winegar before their maturity, without
knowledge of the defence, and for a valuable consideration
by him paid on the purchase thereof? To cut off the defence, interposed by the town, all of these facts must exist.
Tlhe absence of any of them destroys the endeavor to exclude
the defence. In other words, if Winegar received the bonds
after their maturity, or if he had knowledge of the facts constituting the defence to them, or if he did not pay value on
their purchase, the defence is admissible and its effect distinctly presented. Now, upon the allegations of the bill,
each and all of these facts, except that of the maturity of the
bonds, is averred to have existed. The time when Winegar
received the bonds is not definitely stated. It is alleged,
however, that he knew the alleged facts in regard to their
issue before he received them. This alone opens the case
to any defence. It is alleged again that he paid no consideration whatever on the purchase, but that his title is sham
and colorable. This again opens the whole case. Upon the
statements of the bill the defence to the bonds can be interposed against Winegar, as it could be against an original
* 1 Stat. at Large, p. 82.

Dec. 1872.]

KIMBALL V. WEST.

Statement of the case.

holder; and if the allegations are true, and constitute a defence, the defence at law to the suit brought by him is perfect and complete.
A judgment against Winegar in the suit brought by him
would be as conclusive upon the invalidity of the bonds,
would as effectually prevent all future vexatious litigation,
would expose the fraud, and prevent future deception as perfectly and thoroughly as would a judgment in the equity
suit. Under such circumstances, there is no authority for
bringing this suit in equity.
We are so well satisfied that the bill cannot be sustained
for the reason stated, that we do npt discuss the further
question, whether a bill of this character can be sustained,
where two of the defendants in the suit are residents of the
same State with the plaintiff.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

KIMBALL V. WEST.
1. *When a contract for sale of lands is fully executed by a conveyance with
a covenant of warranty, and the payment of the purchase-money, the
remedy for a defect of title is by an action on the covenant.
2. A party declining to pursue that remedy, and applying to a court of
equity to rescind the entire contract, must show very clearly that such
a rescission is necessary to the ends of justice.
3. If, therefore, on or before the final hearing, the vendor makes and tenders a perfect title, no rescission will be decreed unless the vendee has
suffered great loss or injury by the delay, and not then if such loss or
injury can be fairly compensated by damages.
APPEAL

from the Circuit Court for the District of Mis-

souri.

Kimball and Trask brought their bill in chancery against
'West, to rescind a contract for the sale of land of which
they were purchasers from him. The contract was an executed one, West having conveyed the land-about four hundred acres in quantity-to the complainants' agent, who had

