CANAL COMPANY v. HILL.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

and the -acquisition by him of a legal right as against other
parties to be preferred in its purchase, when the United States
have determined to sell. It seems to us little less than absurd
to say that a settler or any other person by acquiring a right
to be preferred in the purchase of property, provided a sale
is made by the owner, thereby acquires a right to compel
the owner to sell, or such an interest in the property as to
deprive the owner of the power to control its disposition.
The act of California, of February, 1868, attempting to
grant the premises in controversy to the defendant is, by its
own terms, inoperative until ratified by Congress. No such
ratification has ever been made, and it is not believed that
Congress will ever sanction such a perversion of the trust
solemnly accepted by the State.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

CANAL COMPANY V. HILL.
1. To ascertain the intent of the parties is the fundamental rule in the construction of agreements. When the substantial thing which they have
in view can be gathered from the whole instrument, it will control mere
formal provisions, which are intended only as a means of attaining the
substance.
2. The state of things and surrounding -circumstances in which an agreement is made will be looked at as a means of throwing liqht upon its
meaning, especially for the purpose of ascertaining what is its true subject-matter.
3. A grant of a right to draw from a canal so much water as will pass
through an aperture of given size and given position in the side of the
canal is substantially a grant of a right to take a certain quantity of
water in bulk or weight. What that quantity is may be ascertained
from the character and depth of the canal, the circumstances under
which the water is to be drawn, and the state of things existing at the
time the grant is made.
4. The grantee will be entitled to draw this quantity even though it may be
necessary to have the aperture enlarged, if it can be done without injury
to the grantor.
APPEAL

from the Supreme Court of the District of Colum-

bia; the case being thus:

The Chesapeake and Ohio Canal Company were the pro-

Dec. 1872.]

CANAL COMPANY V. HILL.
Statement of the case.

prietors of a canal which, at its terminus in Georgetown,
D. C., was much higher than the Potomac River, and so furnished by its surplus water a considerable water power.
This power the company had for many years been in the
habit of leasing out to the proprietors of various mills built
not far from the side of the canal. The general form of
lease used was that of a grant of the right, for a certain term
of years, at a certain rent, and under certain restrictions, to
draw from the canal so much water as would pass through
an aperture of specified size (stated in square inches) in an
iron plate fixed in the side of the canal. From this aperture
the water was carried in a trunk, or forebay, to the premises
of the lessee and discharged upon his water-wheel. The
rent usually charged had been $2.50 or $3 per annum for
every square inch contained in the aperture agreed upon.
In January, 1864, one Hill, proposing to build a papermill to be run by water from the canal, but not yet having
built it, procured from the company a lease, by which they
granted and agreed that he should have full right, for the
term of twenty years from the first of July, 1864 (with privilege of renewal indefinitely), to draw off from the Chesapeake and Ohio Canal, at Georgetown, to be used at his
property at the corner of Potomac and Water Streets (from
the level between locks No. 4 and No. 5), so much water as
would pass through an aperture of 200 square inches in an
iron plate not exceeding half an inch in thickness, to be
used solely for propelling the machinery of a paper-mill and
appurtenant works; but on certain conditions, viz.: the
aperture was to be of such height and lengtl in the clear as
to make just 200 square inches (which probably meant, as
this court assumed, that it was to be rectangular); its lower
edge not to be nearer the canal bottom than two feet; it
was to be plain and square through the plate, with no attachment or contrivance to increase the quantity of water to
be drawn, and to have a sliding gate in front, so that the
water-power granted might be totally or partially stopped,
as the provisions of the contract might require. The forebay, or trunk, for conducting the water through the canal-

96

CANAL COMPANY v. HILL.

[Sup.

Ct.

Statement of the case.

bank, from the aperture, was to be covered or bridged; and
said forebay, aperture, and gate were to be so constructed
as not to interfere with the navigation of the canal or use
of the tow-path; and to be of good and substantial construefion, so as not to occasion any leakage; and to be constructed
at the cost of the lessee, under the direction wad superiendence,
and subject to the approval of, the proper officer of the company;
and, at like cost and under like superintendence, to be altered
from time to time, as might be considered necessary by the company or its proper officer, to prevent or lessen the inconvenience to the navigation of the canal and use of the tow-path.
It was also stipulated that the officers and servants of the
company should at all times have free access to the lessee's
premises to examine and i'epair the embankments of the
canal, and the lessee's fixtures and works connected with
drawing off the water, for the purpose of seeing whether the
water was wasted by leakage, or whether more water was
drawn off than was granted. Hill agreed to pay for the use
of the water leased an annual rent of $500 for the first ten
years, and $600 for the last ten; and it was made a condition that if the rent'should not be paid, or if the other
stipulations should not be complied with, or if he should
alter or enlarge the forebay, or trunk, or aperture, or apply
the water to other uses, without the consent of the company,
they might cut off the water until he should make amends
or satisfaction. It was also agreed that if the water should
at any time be found deficient for the uses of navigation
(which was declared to be the primary purpose of the canal),
the supply to tle mill might be diminished or stopped, as
might be requisite for meeting the deficiency.
Having got his lease, Hill went to work and, at a cost of
about $40,000, erected his mill; placing it at a distance of
350 or 450 feet away from the canal; a greater distance
than were the other mills. This required a long forebay.
Such a one he built, of solid masonry, giving to it, however,
both less capacity and less pitch than marked those of the
other mills, and adopting in his mill a turbine wheel instead
of the ordinary overshot. The result of the whole was that

Dec. 1872.]

CANAL COM4PANY

V.

HILL.

Statement of the ease.

he received about half the quantity of water which commonly came to the other mills, through an aperture in the
canal of 200 square inches.
In this state of things, Hill agreed with the company, in
Iay and June, 1866, that he should have a lease for such
additional quantity of water-power as was required for his
mill, upon the usual terms, on payment of a bonus of $5 per
inch for such additional quantity. Hereupon the engineer
of the company and the superintendent of Hill's mill went
to work to ascertain by actual experiment how much additional water was required. Their mode of operation was to
raise the slide in the side of the canal through which the
water flowed to the mill until a sufficient quantity to propel
it flowed through. The mode in which the forebay to Hill's
mill had been constructed. allowed them no other mode.
Accordingly, the bead of water being weak, as the. gaige
was lifted upwards and the water flowed from towards the
top of the canal, the operation brought the slide to a point
only five inches below the surface of the canal, and no
sufficiency of water could be had until an aperture of 700
inches-an aperture therefore of 500 inches more than the
one originally agreed on-was made. This aperture was
accordingly left, and the water that went through it was used
by Hill.
At the next quarter-day the company required him to pay
the bonus and quarter's rent upon the additional 500 inches,
which he refused to do. They then were about to shut off
the water when Hill filed this bill in the court below for an
injunction. After answer, the court referred it to Mr. W.
R. Hutton, engineer of the company, to report as a commissioner and expert upon certain matters concerning this and
the other mills.
Mr. Hutton reported that the other mills discharged albout
6 cubic feet per second for every 100 inches of aperture,
while Hill's 200 discharged at only the rate of 6 ; though,
with allowance for the location of the mill and other circumstances, he ought, through his 200 inches, to have received
at least 11 cubic feet per second.
VOL. XV.

7

CANAL

COMPANY V. HILL.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the canal company.

This question, also, was referred to him:
"How many square inches of aperture, situated at the distance of twofeetfrom the bottom of the canal, and of the width of
complainant's forebay, would furnish a flow of water equivalent
in power and effect to the additional water received by the complainant under his new contract, over and above his original
grant ?"

Mr. Hutton reported that the additional 500 inches provided for by the contract were the equivalent of but 217
inches drawn two feet from the bottom, and under the conditions
of the lease.
The court accordingly made the injunction perpetual, so
long as Hill should pay rent on 217 inches.
From that decree it was that the company now appealed.
Mr. WV. S. Cox, for the Company, appellant in the ease:
The error of the decree is that it makes a new contract
for the parties. As to the original contract, the canal company did not stipulate to furnish a certain quantity of water
-so many inches of water-but so much water as will pass
through an aperture of 200 square inches. It is obvious that
the quantity that will pass through such an aperture will
vary with diff rent conditions. But the shape and location
of the aperture itself were left entirely to the judgment and
discretioti of the lessee, with the single condition that the
lower edge of the aperture be not nearer than two feet to the
canal bottom. In this case Hill has the whole benefit of his
grant. He could not, with an aperture of 200 square inches,
receive water through the forebay constructed by himself
under more favorable conditions than at present.
Then, in regard to the new contract. As to this, Hill
pretends that in ascertaining the quantity of water, or the
size of aperture necessary, the company's officers ought to
have enlarged the aperture horizontally, more than perpendicularly, on the principle that the greater pressure at the lower
depth would have made a smaller number of additional
inches sufficient for a given work than would have to be

Dec. 1872.]

CANAL

COMPANY

v. HILL.

Opinion of the court.

added perpendicularly. And this is the sole answer to their
claim, that he was bound to pay according to the number of
inches of aperture. But it was his own act that made the
mode of measurement adopted the only one practicable.
The forebay was of his own construction. The lease contemplated a construction of the forebay by the lessee, subject only to the approval of the officer of the company.
The forebay, of course, was always constructed of such
width as to be adapted to the machinery. It would not, for
instance, be wider than the mill-wheel, for, as to the excess
of width, the stream of water paid for would simply be
wasted. Hill had made his forebay of solid stone, and in
his lease stipulated that it should not be enlarged without
the written consent of the company. It is not pretended
that he ever applied for that consent, much less that it was
granted. On the contrary, he expected to get the additional
water by a vertical addition to the column of water, and his
.own foreman assisted in making the measurement in that
way; nor did he ever dissent from it.
The only hardship in this case is the result of the appellee's own miscalculation. He obtained his water-grant first
and then erected his mill, with such machinery that the
water leased by him was insufficient to propel it. He then
obtained all the water that he needed, on the same terms
that were usual in all water leases, and found that those
terms were onerous because his peculiar machinery required
a more extended grant than usual, and therefore seeks to
change the terms of his contract by the authority of the
court.
ilIr. T. D. Davidge, contra.
Mr. Justice BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
The large investment of capital made by the appellee in
sole reliance on the water-power whicli the lease secures,
with the full knowledge which the appellants had of this
reliance and intended investment, renders it necessary that
we should look carefully to the substance of the original

CANAL COMPANY V.

HILL.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

agreement, of January, 1864, as contradistinguished from
its mere form, in order that we may give it a fair and just
construction, and ascertain the substantial intent of the parties, which is the fundamental rule in the construction of all
agreements. It is not to be presumed that they intended to
provide for a certain aperture in the canal without respect
to the amount of water it would discharge and the purpose
which that water was to accomplish. What the appellee
sought was water-power to drive the machinery of an expensive mill. The appellants knew this to be his object, and
the thing leased or granted was intended to be, and in fact
was, water, as the means of creating such power. It was not
only water, but a certain quantity of water, namely (in the
words of the lease), "so much water as will pass through an
aperture of two hundred square inches," under certain conditions specified. The parties clearly had in view a fixed
quantity of water to be received in a given time. In ascertaining their mutual rights under the lease, it.is important
to know how much this quantity was. When we know that,
we know the substance of the agreement.
Now, in speaking of a certain quantity of water, we a]ways have reference to its cubical contents, its bulk or
weight. We mean so many gallons, or hogsheads, or cubic
feet of water. We have no reference to surface or sectional
measurement. A square foot, or a square inch of water, expresses no quantity at all. But when we speak of the quantity which will pass through a square foot, or square inch of
aperture, in a certain time, then our words have meaning.
The size and position of the aperture so carefully prescribed
in-the lease were intended merely as a means of measurement of the real thing granted, namely, that certain quantity
of water per second, or per hour, which the parties had in
mind, and about which they were dealing. If we can ascertain this, we can easily adjust the mutual rights of the parties. Can it be ascertained from the terms of the lease,
aided by the light derived from the evidence in the cause?
We think it can. And in making this inquiry we have a
right to examine into the state of things existing at the time

Dec. 1872o.]

CANAL COMPANY V. HILL.
Opinion of the court.

and the circumstances in which the lease was made. This
kind of evidence is especially pertinent when the inquiry is
as to the subject-matter of the agreement.
The amount of water which will be discharged through
an aperture of a given size will depend upon the form of the
aperture, the head under which the water is drawn, and the
freedom from obstruction with which it is permitted to flow
away.
In this case the lessee is not restricted as to the form of
the aperture, except, perhaps, that it shall be rectangular.
So that it contains only the content of two hundred square
inches he is at liberty to construct it of such relative dimensions as he sees fit. Of course it is his interest to give it the
greatest length and the least height consistent with a free
flow. Such a form gives the greatest head of water above
the aperture and increases the discharge. The right of
superintending and directing the construction of the works,
Teserved to the lessors, cannot be construed to restrict this
discretion of the lessee. That right has more particular ref.
erence to the manner of the construbtion, and the solidity
and safety of the work, in reference to the structure and
uses of the canal. It cannot be allowed to annul the substantial rights of the lessee without becoming repugnant to
the grant.
In the next place, as to the head of water under which the
]eased water is to be drawn, the only restriction imposed
upon the lessee in this regard is that the lower edge of the
aperture shall not be nearer to the canal bottom than two
feet. Of course he is entitled to draw under the entire head
of water above this two feet. What that head shall be will
depend upon the usual depth or height of water in the canal.
It is to be presumed that the parties contracted in reference
to that. The lessors do not guarantee any particular head;
but any alteration of their canal which would materially and
permanently reduce it would abstract from the lessee a portion of the water, which he must be presumed to have stipulated for. The contract was made in reference to the 5tate
of things existing at the time it was made.

102

CANAL COMPANY V. 'HILL.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

In the third place, as to the freedom from obstruction
with which the water shall be permitted to flow off and be
discharged: the lease imposes no restrictions upon the lessee
on this point, except that he shall not affix to the aperture
any attachments or contrivances for increasing the flow beyond what it would otherwise be. This restriction relates
to the well-known law of practical hydraulics that an adjutage or nozzle attached to the outside of all aperture prevents
the vein of water from contracting and increases the aggregate discharge. With this exception, however, the lessee is
entitled to draw off from the canal as much water as the
two-hundred-inch aperture will discharge when it flows free
from any obstruction except that which may arise from the
ordinary use of the water in milling operations. This is a
very important and essential right of the lessee, and one of
which the lessors cannot deprive him under any pretence of
regulating and directing the mode of constructing his forebay and its appendages. If the water is discharged under a
four-feet head (which is about what the evidence shows to
be the fact), the practical rules of hydraulics determine exactly how much water will issue in each second of time from
a rectangular aperture of two hundred square inches, provided it meets with no obstruction outside, as where it falls
out freely into open space. Mr. Hutton, the commissioner,
to whom, as an expert, certain important questions in the
cause were referred by the court below, says that the other
mills discharge about" six and two-thirds cubic feet per
second for every one hundred inches of aperture. This is
probably a little less than the discharge would be in the
open air, because there is undoubtedly home obstruction to
the flow arising from the passage of the water through the
flumes.
This rate of flow would give to the appellee, through his
aperture of two hundred square inches, a discharge of thirteen and one-third cubic feet per second. Something like
this amount of actual water must be considered as within
the intent of the parties to give and receive.
But the fact became developed that, by the faulty con-

Dec. 1872.]

CANAL COMPANY v.

ILL.

Opinion of the court.

struction of the appellee's forebay or flume, arising from its
small capacity, its great length, and its want of pitch or
slope, he does not get but about one-half of the amount of
water which is due to the aperture in the canal, and which
he ought to receive. This fact is established beyond a question by the evidence.
Now, certainly, it is not equitable, even if it be in accordance with the strict letter of the lease, that the appellee
should be compelled to pay full rent for half the quantity of
water, which, according to the real intent of the parties, he
stipulated for.. True it may be said that it was his own
fault, to construct the forebay in the disadvantageous manner which he has done, and that if he wants the full benefit
of his lease he should tear it down and reconstruct it differeutly. This would require a great sacrifice on his part, and
would not benefit the appellants. Surely, a court of equity
cannot be compelled to consign a party to such a clumsy
and ruinous remedy as this. The appellants can sustain no
injury by allowing the lessee to take so much water as he
supposed he was getting and as they supposed they were
granting. This would be in accordance with the substance
of the agreement. It would carry out the intent of the parties as gathered from the whole instrument and the state of
affairs existing at the time it was made, and would save the
lessee from a ruinous expenditure for alterations rendered
necessary by his mistake.
It may be said that the location of the appellee's mill at a
distance of 350 or 400 feet from the canal was a circumstance
which the lessors had a right to take into account, and that
by having to conduct the water such a long distance it could
not be supposed that the lessee would be able to draw as
much water through a given aperture as if his mill had been
located nearer. This is true; and whatever is due to that
circumstance the appellants are entitled to insist upon. 'But
Mr. Hlutton, the commissioner, says in his report that, making all allowance for the particular circumstances and location of the appellee's mill, he still ought to receive at least
eleven cubic feet per second through the aperture named in

CANAL COMPANY V.

HILL.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

the lease; whereas, in fact, he receives only twenty-three
cubic feet through an aperture of seven hundred inches, or
at the rate of only about six and a half cubic feet per second
for an aperture of two hundred inches.
But if the appellee should receive eleven cubic feet of
water per second, to which his lease may justly entitle him,
this is not sufficient to drive his mill; and the question then
arises as to the additional quantity which he requires, and
which, according to the witnesses, is about twelve cubic feet
per second. It appears from the case that the appellants
agreed to furnish him the additional amount required for
his mill on the usual terms; and that the appellee accepted
the offer; but, in consequence of the controversy which
arose about the measurement of the water and his refusal to
comply with their demands, they declined to carry out the
agreement. Had the appellants been right in the position
they assumed, they would have been justified in making
this refusal. But we think that they were not right, and,
therefore, that they are bound to carry the agreement into
effect, and that the appellee is entitled to receive the additional ambunt required, at the same rate, and on the same
terms at which he was to have the original two hundred
square inches. And as eleven cubic feet of water per second
are due to the original aperture named, the additional twelve
cubic feet per second would require, according to the report
of the commissioner, a corresponding aperture of two hundred and seventeen square inches, For this additional
amount of aperture the appellee should be charged, making
the total amount four hundred and seventeen square inches.
But to get the water to which it entitles him, as his forebay
and apparatus are at present constructed, he is obliged to
have, in reality, at the canal, an aperture of seven hundred
square inches. The appellants were willing that he should
have'this aperture by increasing the height of the original
aperture, but insisted that he should pay for seven hundred
inches, according to the terms of the lease. Under the peculiar exigencies of the case, obstructed as the flow now is,
we think that for the aperture named he should be charged

Dec.

1872.]

MORGAN'S ASSIGNEES V. SHINN.
Statement of the case.

for only four hundred and seventeen square inches. This is
precisely the view on which the decree below is based, and
we think it is correct. But as the difficulty between the
parties originated from the mistake made by the appellee
himself in the construction of his fbrebay and works, he
ought not to recover any costs from the appellants, either in
this court or the court below.
The result is that the decree must be
AFFIRMED, BUT WITHOUT COSTS IN EITHER COURT.

Mr. Justice STRONG, with whom concurred Mr. Justice
DAVIS, dissenting:
I dissent from the judgment given in this case. In my
opinion, it practically makes a new contract for the parties;
a contract to which they never -agreed. It holds that what,
at most, was an expectation of results amounts to a binding
obligation that they shall follow. To this I cannot agree.

MORGAN'S ASSIGNEES V. SHINN.
1. A bill of sale of a vessel, absolute in its terms, may be shown by parol
evidence to be only a mortgage.
2. The facts thatthe bill of sale was recorded; that the vessel was re-enrolled
in the name of the transferee; that a policy of insurance was taken out
in his name as owner, and that no note or bond was taken by him, will
not overcome po-itive evidence that the bill was taken as a mere security for a loan.
3. A mortgagee of an interest in a vessel, not in his possession, is under no
obligation to contribute for repairs which he did not order. The ship's
agents are not his agents, and they act under no authority from him.
And it makes no difference though the vessel be registered in his name.

AIPEAL from the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia; the case being thus:
The assignees of Morgan, Rhinehart & Co. filed a bill in
the court below against one Shinn, to enforce contribution
to the repayment of advances made by their assignors for

