GUNN

v.

BARR Y.

[Sup.

Ct.

Syllabus.

the lease, and that said privilege attached to the proceeds of
said property in the hands of the syndic.
The plea of prescription cannot be sustained in this case,
iuasmuch as the bill was filed in Februai'y, 1867; and we
have lately held, in the case of Adger v. Alston,* that all
statutes of prescription and limitation were suspended, at
least in the Federal courts, during the period of the late
civil war, which was not solenily determined in Louisiana
until the President's proclamation of April 2d, 1866.
DECREE AFFIRMED.

GUNN V. BARRY.
An exemption law of Georgia, passed several years ago, exempted from
execution in favor of each head of a family, "fifty acres of land, and
five additional ones for each of his children under the age of 16 years,
the land to include the dwelling-house and improvements if the same
do not exceed $200," and exempted many other things, chiefly household furniture, wearing apparel, books, family portraits, &c.; the value
of which was not limited, and which might vary with different debtors
and their families. With that law in force A. obtained a judgment for
$531 against 13., who had 272 acres of land, worth $1300, and had no
other property but land worth $100, from which the judgment could be
satisfied. In this state of things Georgia having passed an "ordinance of
secession," withdrew her senators and representatives from the Congress
of the United States, and went into the rebellion. The rebellion being
suppressed, but Georgia not being allowed by Congress yet to send senators and representatives to its sessions, Congress passed what was known
as the Reconstruction Act. This act reciting that "no legal State government or adequate protection for life or property now existed in the
rebel State of Georgia," authorized the said State to make a constitution, which being submitted to Congress and approved by it, the State
was to be entitled to representation. The people of the State did accordingly make a new constitution and submit it to Congress. This new
constitution provided that "each head of a family should be entitled to
a homestead of realty to the value of $2000 in specie, and personal property to the value of $1000 in specie, to be valued at the time they are
set apart;" and ordained further that"No court or ministerial officer in the State shall ever have jurisdiction or
* Supra, p. 555.

Dec. 1872.]

GUN

v. BARRY.

Statement of the case.
authority to enforce any judgment, decree, or execution against said property
so set apart, including such improvement as may be made thereon from time to
time, except for taxes, money borrowed or expended in the improvement of the
homestead, or fr the purchase-money of the same, and for labor done thereon,
or material furnished therefor, or removal of incumbrances thereon."
5

The contitution with this exemption and the~e provisions in it was
submitted to Congress, which approved part of it and disapproved of
other parts; enacting only that after certain changes were made the
State should be entitled to representation. No objection was made to
the clauses of exemption or the provi.ions above quoted. The State of
Georgia complied with the requirements of Congress, and a constitution
satisfactory to that body being made-these clauses of exemption and
the accompanying provisions, being in it-the State was declared entitled to representation. Held,
1st. That as respected a creditor who had obtained by his judgment a lien
on the land which the old exemption secured to him while the new one
destroyed it, the law creating the new exemption impaired the obligation of a contract, and was unconstitutional and void.
2d. That the fact that the constitution had been made under the special
circumstances and in the special way above mentioned, and under the
eye of Congress, did not change the case.

ERROR to the Supreme Court of Georgia; the case being
thus:
By a statute of Georgia, passed many years ago, it was
enacted that the following property, belonging to a debtor
who was the head of a fimily, should be exempt from levy
and sale.
"Fifty acres of land, and five additional ones for each of his
children under the age of 16 years, the land to include the
dwelling-house, if the same and improvements do not exceed
$200.
" One farm horse or mule.
"'One cow and calf.

"Ten head of hogs.
"Fifty dollars' worth of provision, and five dollars' worth for
each additionalchild.
"Beds, bedding, and common bedsteads sufficient for the
family.
"One loom, one spinning-wheel, two pair of cards, and one
hundred pounds of lint cotton.
" Common tools of trade for himself and his wife.

GUNN v. BARRY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

"Equipments and arms of a militia soldier and trooper's
horse.
"Ordinary cooking utensils and table crockery.
"Wearing apparel of himself and family.
"Family Bible,
"Religious works and school books.
"Family portraits.
"The library of a professional man not exceeding $300 in
value, to be selected by himself."
In 1861, with this statute in existence, the State of Georgia
passed what was called "an ordinance of secession" from
the United States; and joined in the treason and rebellion
against the Federal government into which the slaveholding
States, for the most part, entered. Her senators and representatives withdrew from Congress; her State government
passed into the hands of persons at war with the United
States; and she became one of the States styled "The Confederate States of America;" a confederacy which waged
war for several years on the government, and whose insurrection and rebellion the government, on the other hand,
sought by force of arms to suppress. The arms of the
United States having proved triumphant, the so-called government of the Confederate States fell to pieces, and the
State of Georgia was left where she had put herself, that is
to say, in the hands of traitors and rebels. No senators or
representatives were allowed by the Congress of the United
States to come back to its chambers as of old.
In this state of things, in May, 1866, Gunn obtained judgment in one of the courts of the State for $402.30 principal,
and $129.60 interest (in all $531.90), against a certain Hart.
For what the judgment had been obtained did not appear.
Hart had at this time 2721 acres of land, worth $1300, and
the judgment bound it as a lien. He had no other land but
one piece worth about $100.
On the 2d of March, 1867, the rebellion being suppressed,
but the ancient relation of Georgia to the General Government, being still,-in point of fact, not restored by representation, the Congress of the United States passed "an act to

Dec. 1872.]

GUNN v. BARRY.
Statement of the case.

provide for the more efficient government of the rebel
States;" the act commonly called the Reconstruction Act.*
This act-reciting that "no legal State governments or adequate protection for life or property now existed in the rebel
States of Virginia,- Georgia, North Carolina," &c., and that
it was "necessary that peace and good order should be enforced in the said State till loyal republican State governments could be legally established," and putting these said
States under military rule-enacted that when the people of
any one of the said rebel States should have formed a constitution of government in conformity with the Constitution
of the United States in all respects . . . and "when such constitution shall have been submitted to Congressfor examination and
approval, and Congress shall have approved the same . . . &c.,
said State shall be declared entitled to representation in Cogress,
and senators and representativesshall be admitted therefrom."
In pursuance of what was contemplated by this act, and
of certain amendments to it, the people of Georgia did make
a constitution. This constitution by the first section of its
seventh article ordained that"Each head of a family, or guardian, or trustee of a family,
of minor children shall be entitled to a homestead of realty to
the value of $2000 in specie, and personal property to the value
of $1000 in specie, to be valued at the time they are set apart."
It went on further to declare:
"And no court or ministerial officer in this State shall ever
have jurisdiction or authority to enforce any judgment, decree,
or execution against said property so set apart, including such
improvement as may be made thereon from time to time, except
for taxes, money borrowed or expended in the improvement of
the homestead, or for the purchase-money of the same, and for
labor done thereon, or material furnished therefor, or removal
of incumbrances thereon."
The constitution having been thus adopted in form by the
people of Georgia, was sent with this article included to the
Congress of the United States, which by an act of June
* 14 Stat. at Large, 428.

GUNN v. BARRY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

25th, 1868,* "to admit the States of Georgia, &c., to representation in Congress," reciting that whereas the people of
Georgia, North Carolina, &c., had in pursuance of the already
quoted act of March 2d, 1867, "framed constitutions of State
government which are republican, and- have adopted said
constitutions," enacted that each of the States of North
Carolina, Georgia, &c., shall be entitled and admitted to
representation in Congress as a State of the Union when
the legislature of such State shall have duly ratified the
amendment to the Constitution of the United States
known as "Article Fourteen :" Provided, That the State of
Georgia shall only be entitled and admitted to representation upon this further fundamental condition, that the first
and third subdivisions of section seventeen of the fifth article
of the constitution of said State except, &c., shall be null
-and void, and that the General Assembly of said State by
solemn public act shall declare the assent of the State to the
foregoing provision.
The State having afterwards ratified the fourteenth amendment, and complied with other requirements, was by an act
of Congress, passed July 16th, 1870,t declared entitled to
representation in Congress.
The constitution of Georgia being thus approved by Congress, and operative, the legislature of Georgia, on the 3d
of October, 1868, passed
"An act to provide for setting apart a homestead of realty
and personalty and for the valuation of said property, and for
the full and complete protection and security of the same to the
sole use and benefit of families, as required by section first of
article seventh of the constitution and for other purposes."
The language of this act was the same as the provision of
the constitution. Under the act all the land of Hart, which
altogether, it will have been observed, was worth about
$1400, was set apart to him and his family as a homestead.
On a resluirement by Gunu, to the sheriff of the county,
one Barry, that lie should levy on the 2771 acres, Barry re* 15 Stat. at'Large, 73.

-f 16 Id. 363.

Dec. 1872.]

GTUNN

V. BARRY.

Argument for the creditor.

fued to do so, upon the ground that they had been set off
to Hart and his family under the act of 1868, and on a petition tbr mandamus against Barry to compel him to make
the levy, the courts of Georgia, including the Supreme
Court, having decided that the refusal of the sheriff was
right, the case was brought here.
The question involved was of course the constitutionality
as against Gunn, who had got his judgment beibre its passage, of the new exemption.
Hr. P. Phillips, for the plaififf in error:
Hart having had 272- acres of land, worth $1300, of which
land 50 acres, or at very most, say a half, was exempt under
the old law, obtained a judgment for $531.90. His debt is
thus perfectly secure. He has an interest in the land to the
extent of the judgment; an interest which binds it in the
hands of the debtor and to whomsoever the debtor may
transfer it. Then comes the new constitution and law, which
withdraws the whole of the land from the lien, and for all
practical purposes dissolves or destroys the lien. The remedy, which was before complete, is now annihilated. And
the creditor who, before, would have been paid in full, is deprived of getting anything. If this is not impairing the obligation of a contract-if it is not destroying vested rightswhat is ?
There was, no doubt, great inducement in the Southern
States, arising out of the disasters of the war, to legislation
in favor of debtors. But while much may be said in extenuation of such legislation, nothing, when it is like that here,
can be judicially said in justification of it. In Arkansas an
exemption of $7000 has been made. In Mississippi of $4000.
In other Southern States exemptions more or less large.
With the operation of these exemptions on contracts made
subsequently to them, we do not deal. But when applied to
contracts made when no such exemptions were allowed or
thought of, the illegality is obvious.
Some singular results follow as respects the State of
Georgia. The population of the State is estimated at

GUNN v. BARRY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the debtor.

1,500,000. Under the new exemption every head of a
family is entitled to $2000 in land. Assuming that five
persons constitute a fimily, we have 300,000 heads of families; and if each "head" obtained the $2000 in land, the
law appropriates land to the amount of $600,000,000. This
is three times more than all the land in the State is estimated at.
No counsel appearedon the other side; but the court was referred to arguments made in Georgia, where the validity of
the laws making the new exemption had been sought to be
maintained. So far as the reporter understood them, the
grounds were somewhat thus:
The old law, so far as it operated on contracts made after
.its date, was confessedly valid. Practically from the time
'of its passage no court or ministerial officer of the State had
jurisdiction or authority to enforce any judgment, decree,
,or execution against property set aside under it.
The old law being valid, what made the exemption of
1868 invalid? It was not invalid.
I. In Von Hfoffman v. Quincy,* this court said:
"It is competent for the States to change the form of the
remedy or to modify it otherwise as they may see fit, provided
no substantialright secured by the contract is thereby impaired.
No attempt has been made -to fix definitely the line between
alterations of the remedy which are deemed legitimate and
those which under the form of modifying the remedy impair
substantial rights. Every case must be determined upon its own
circumstances."
So, in that same case, this court referring to an observation made in an earlier case-that "1one of the tests that a
contract has been impaired is that its value has by legislation been diminished "-say :t
"This has reference to legislation which affects the contract
directly, and not incidentally or only by consequence. The right to
imprison for debt is not a part of the contract. It is regarded as
penal rather than remedial. The States may abolish it whenever
* 4 W¥allace, 553.

t Page 553.

Dec. 1872.]

GUNN V. BARRY.
Argument for the debtor.

they thinkproper. They may also exempt from sale under execution the necessary implements of agriculture, the tools of a
mechanic, and articles of necessity in household furniture. It
is said,* 'regulations of this description have always been considered in every civilized community as properly belonging to
the remedy to be exercised by every sovereignty accordingto its
own views of policy and humanity.'"
This court, then, here admitted that though a contract
was in existence the legislature might legislate upon it so as
to dimninish its value provided the legislation were indirect.
And the very sort of legislation which was in question in
this case is given as an illustration of the means through
which a diminution, lawful in character, may be made.
The reason of the lawfulness, though the legislation be retroactive, was also plainly adumbrated. It was that the
principles of humanity having in all civilized countries,
time out of mind, induced legislatures to intervene between
the creditor and his debtor to prevent the former from stripping the latter and his family of those articles which are
necessary to their existence, and this sort of legislation being
exercised by every sovereign "according to his own views
of policy and humanity," every person entering into a contract enters into it with a fall recognition of the right of the
legislature to act on the subject according to such, its own
views-views which, of course, must vary accolding to times
and exigencies.
Hence, if the right of the legislature was legitimately exercised; if,in other words, the particular law did not transcend the limits of fair legislation, the "obligation of contracts" was not impaired even though the legislation were
retroactive, and though by a change in the character of the
articles exempted the remedy might, in particular cases, be
less visibly efficacious, as in others it might be more so.
Now, was the argument this, to wit, that the act of 1868
is unlawful because abstractly and in itself considered it
* Beers v. Houghton, 9 Peters, 359; Ogden v. Saunders, 12 Wheaton,
230; Mason v. Haile, 12 Id. 273; Sturges v. Crownenshield, 4 Id. 200.

GUNN V. BARRY.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the debtor.

made an exemption too great in amount? That fact was
denied. An exemption of a house and lot worth $2000, and
of personalty worth $1000, was not so plainly an excessive
exemption as to be certainly void; void whether considered
prospectively or retrospectively. Such a thing cannot be
affirmed; the legislature of Georgia having had a right
within fair limits to act according to "its own views of
policy and humanity."
Then, was it void because by it a greater amount was exempted than by the former act? If the fact were so, still,
if the increase were made by the legislature of the State in
a fair exercise of the legislature's "views of humanity and
policy," it would be hard to say, under the language of this
court above quoted from Von Roffinan v. Cit11 of Quincy, that
from this cause merely-the increase not being really great
-it was void in toto. But the increase in the magnitude of
the exemption was denied by the argument in Georgia. On
the contrary, looking at the number of items exempted under the old law, and their character, it was asserted that in
some cases of land in some families the exemption would be
much less. A homestead of at least 50 acres, worth any sum,
and if a man had ten children, of 100 acres, was exempted.
Then the "bedsteads," "tools," and "cooking utensils" exempted must all be "common" or "ordinary."
But nothing else was so required to be. All wearing apparel of the
debtor and of all his family-however numerous the family
or valuable the apparel-was exempted; so would a theological library be, however extensive and valuable, and
family portraits which, if by certain artists, would have
great value. In a case where the 50 acres were near a city,
or where the family was of any quality and with members
at all numerous, the articles exempted by the old law could
hardly fail far to exceed $3000 in value. The newprovision
was but an equalization to all the people of the State of
what was meant to be given by the old law, but was not
really given.
II. Then was the case affected by the fact that the constitution and statute changing the character of the exemption

Dec. 1872.]

GUNN v. BARRY.
Argument for the debtor.

declare that no court or ministerial officer in the State shall
ever have authority to enforce any judgment, decree, or execution against said property so set apart? &c. How did
that affect the matter? Under the old exemption no court
or ministerial officer of the State could ever have had jurisdiction or authority to enforce any judgment, decree, or execution against the property set apart. Assuming that the
exemption itself was valid, any prohibition by words was
useless, and any words of prohibition were but surplusage.
The prohibition followed from the validity of the exemption,
and followed as much without words of prohibition as with
them.
The case, then, was this. The legislature acting on "its
own views of policy and humanity" has so far modified an
old exemption that, instead of some real estate, the value of
which varied and might be worth much more than $2000,
and a great number of articles of personalty noninatMn,
whose value also varied and which, of themselves, might be
worth much more than $1000, and might be found in some
families and not at all in others; now exempts realty worth
$2000 and personalty worth $1000; so as to make the law
operate for all as equally and equitably as possible. Is the
legislative power constitutionally incapable of making such
a change?
Then it could not be contended that by the mere contract,
whatever it was, on which this judgment had been obtained,
any lien was acquired. The new constitution withdrew
nothing from the operation of the contract. And though a
lien was acquired by the judgment, yet, if the new exemption
did withdraw the land from the operation of it, the obligation of no contract was impaired.
But the strongest view, it was said, remained. In 1865 a
revolution had swept over the land. The old State government had gone to wreck. The people had no civil government, and were in anarchy. The Congress of the United
States invited them to make a government, and undertook
to guarantee to the State one of a republican form. The
constitution of 1868 was the result. It was made through

GUNN V. BARRY.

[Sup. Ct.

Recapitulation of the facts in the opinion.

the power and agency of Congress, under its law and under
its eye. It was more the work of Congress than of the
State. Congress insisted that a portion of the proposed
constitution, which it disliked, should be fundamentally rejected; and that place should be given to new propositions
which it thought good. The people of the State wanted
neither change. But all that Congress prescribed to be
done was done. Congress then assented that the instrument should go into effect, and it is in virtue of that assent
that it did go into effect. The constitution of Georgia is,
therefore, an act of Congress, and it has, accordingly, all the
validity of such an act.. Now there is no doubt that Congress may if it please pass a law impairing the obligation
of contracts,* though the States may not.
Mr. Justice SWAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
On the 12th of May, 1866, the plaintiff in error recovered
in the Superior Court of Randolph County a judgment
against W. R. Hart for the sum of $402.30 principal, and
$129.60 interest up to the date of the judgment, and costs.
An execution was issued upon the judgment, and placed
in the hands of the defendant in error as sheriff of that
county. He was thereby commanded to make the sums
above mentioned and further interest upon the principal
from the 12th of May, 1866, and the costs. The plaintiff in
error requested him to levy upon a tract of land of 272acres, belonging to Hart, the defendant in the judgment.
Barry refused. He assigned as the only reason for his refusal that the premises had been set off to Hart under the
provisions of the act passed by the General Assembly of the
State, and approved October 3d, 1869, entitled "An act to
provide for setting apart a homestead of realty and personalty, and for the valuation of said property, and for the full
and complete protection and security of the same to the sole
use and benefit of families, as required by section first of
article seventh of the constitution, and for other purposes."
* Evans v. Eaton, Peters's Circuit Court, 322.

Dec. 1872.]

GUNN V. BARRY.
Recapitulation of the facts in the opinion.

'

Gunn thereupon petitioned the Superior Court of the county,
for a writ of mandamus to compel the sheriff to make the
levy. The petition set forth that the land in question was
the only property known to him subject to the lien of his
judgment, except a tract of 28 acres of the value of $100,
situated in the county of Stuart, which was also included in
the homestead so set apart; that the preniises in question
were worth the sum of $1300, and that they embraced a
much larger number of acres than the real estate exempt
from levy and sale by the laws in force when the judgment
was recovered and when the debt on which it was founded
was contracted. It does not appear that these allegations
were denied, and we do not understand that there is any
controversy upon the subject. After a full hearing the court
affirmed the validity of the act in its retrospective aspect,
and gave judgment against the petitioner. The Supreme
Court of the State affirmed this judgment.
Tlfe first section of the seventh article of the constitution
of Georgia of 1868 provides that "each head of a family, or
guardian or trustee of a family of minor children, shall be
entitled to a homestead of realty to the value of $2000 in
specie, and personal property to the value of $1000 in specie,
to be valued at the time they are set apart, and no court or
ministerial office: in this State shall ever have jurisdiction
or authority to enforce any judgment, decree, or execution
against said property so set apart, including such improvement as may be made thereon from time to time, except for
taxes, money borrowed or expended in the improvement of
the homestead, or for the purchase-money of the same, and
for labor done thereon, or material furnished therefor, or
removal of incumbrances thereon."
The first section of the act of the 3d October, 1868, is in
the same terms.
It may well be doubted whether both these provisions were
not intended to be wholly prospective in their effect. But as
we understand the Supreme Court of the State has come to
a different conclusion, we shall not consider the question.

GUNN V.

a

BARRY.

Esup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

The statute in force when the judgment was rendered declared that the following property belonging to a debtor
who was the head of a family should be exempt from levy
and sale (to wit): "Fifty acres of land and five additional
ones for each of his children under the age of sixteen years,
the land to include the dwelling-house, if the same and improvements do not exceed two hundred dollars; one farm
horse or mule, one cow and calf, ten head of hogs, and fifty
dollars' worth of provisions, and five dollars' worth additional for each child; beds, bedding, and common bedsteads
sufficient for the family; one loom, one spinning-wheel, and
two pairs of cards, and one hundred pounds of lint cotton;
common tools of trade for himself and his wife; equipments
and arms of a militia soldier and trooper's horse; ordinary
cooking utensils and table crockery; wearing apparel of
himself and family; family Bible, religious works and school
books; family portraits; the library of a professional man
in actual practice or business, not exceeding three hundred
dollars in value, to be selected by himself"
No one can cast his eyes over the former and later exemptions, without being struck by the greatly increased magnitude of the latter.

-

Section 10 of Article 1 of the Constitution of the United
States declares that "no State shall pass any law impairing
the obligation of contracts."
If the remedy is a part of the obligation of the contract,
a clearer case of impairment can hardly occur than is presented in the record before us. The effect of the act in
question, under the circumstances of this judgment, does
not indeed merely impair, it annihilates the remedy. There
is none left.
But the act reaches still further. It withdraws the land
from the lien of the judgment, and thus destroys a vested
right of property which the creditor had acquired in the
pursuit of the remedy to which he was entitled by the law
as it stood when the judgment was recovered. It is in effect
taking one person's property and giving it to another with-

Dec.1872.]

GuNN v.

BARRY.

Opinion of the court.

out 6ompensation. This is contrary to reason and justice,
and to the fundamental principles of the social compact.*
But we must confine ourselves to the constitutional aspect
of the case. A few further remarks will be sufficient to dispose of it. It involves no question which has not been more
than once fully considered by this court.
Georgia, since she came into the Union as one of the
original thirteen States, has never been a State out of the
Union. Her constitutional rights were, for a time, necessarily put in abeyance, but her constitutional disabilities and
obligations were in nowise affected by her rebellion. The
same view is to be taken of the provision in her organic
law and of the statute in question, as if she had been in full
communion with her sister States when she gave them being.
Though her constitution was sanctioned by Congress, this
provision can in no sense be considered an act of that body.
The sanction was only permissive as a part of the process of
her rehabilitation, and involved nothing affirmative or negative beyond that event. If it were express and unequivocal,
the result would be the same. Congress cannot, by authorization or ratification, give the slightest effect to a State law
or constitution in conflict with the Constitution of the United
States. That instrument is above and beyond the power of
Congress and the States, and is alike obligatory upon both.
A State can no more impair an existing contract by a constitutional provision, than by a legislative act; both are
within the prohibition of the National Constitution.
The legal remedies for the enforcement of a contract,
which belong to it at the time and place where it is made,
are a part of its obligation. A State may change them,
provided the change involve no impairment of a substantial
right. If the provision of the constitution, or the legislative act of a State, fall within the category last mentioned,
they are to that extent utterly void. They are, for all the
purposes of the contract which they impair, as if they had
never existed. The constitutional provision and statute
Calder v. Bull, 3 Dallas, 388.

NEW

ORLEANS

v.

GAINES.

[Sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

here in question, are clearly within that category, and are,
therefore, void. The jurisdictional prohibition which they
contain with respect to the courts of the State, can, therefore, form no impediment to the plaintiff in error in the enforcement of his rights touching this judgment, as those
rights are recognized by this court.*
TnE JUDGMENT IS REVERSED, and the cause will be re-

manded to the Supreme Court of Georgia with directions to
enter a judgment of reversal, to reverse the judgment of
the Superior Court of Randolph County, and thereafter to
proceed

'IN

ONFORMITY TO THIS OPINION.

NEW ORLEANS V. GAINES.
1. Where a master, on reference, has followed the order of the judgment
and enforced its directions, no objection can be taken, on appeal, to what
he has done when the appeal arises upon exceptions to his report, and
not on objection to the original judgment under which the reference to
him was made.
2. Though by the law of Louisiana a defendant, ordered by judicial decree
to restore possession of real estate which it has been adjudged that he
has held, nalafide, during his whole term of possession, have a right,
if the party recovering as true owner desire to retain improvements
which the possessor, innalifide, has put on them, to d.'mand the value of
the materials and price of workmanship of such improvements; yet
where, in a peculiar and complicated case, in which specific amounts and
estimates were not possible to be made, and the case had to be adjusted
largely on a system of equitable compensations, if the party finally dispossessed have, by the decree, received in fact and good conscience the
value of his improvements, the court will not allow him to call for another and more specific payment.
3. The possessor, in continuous bad faith, of real estate which the true owner
at last recovers, is chargeable, under the claim of mesne profits, with
what the premises are reasonably worth annually, and interest thereon
* White v. Hart, 13 Wallace, 646; Von Hoffman v. The City of Quincy,
4 Id. 535.

