Dec. 1872.]

DEITScH V. WIGGINS.
Syllabus.

fendant was trying to part two dogs, fighting, and in raising
his stick for that purpose accidentally struck the plaintiff in
his eye, injuring it severely. The court, Mr. Chief Justice
Shaw delivering the opinion, held that the defendant was
doing a lawful and proper act, which he might do by the
use of proper and safe means; and that if in so doing, and
while using due care and taking all proper precautions necessary to the exigency of the case to avoid hurt to others,
tl~e injury to the plaintiff occurred, the defendant was not
liable therefor, and that the burden of proof was on the
plaintiff to establish a want of due care on the part of
the defendant. In Harvey v. Dunlap,* which was before
the Supreme Court of New York, the action was trespass
for throwing a stone ht the plaintiff's daughter, by which
her eye was put out. It did not appear that the injury was
inflicted by design or carelessness, but on the contrary
that it was accidental, and it was held that the plaintiff
could not recover. "No case or principle can be found,"
said Mr. Justice Nelson, in denying a new trial, "or, if
found, can be maintained, subjecting an individual to liability for an act done without fault on his part;" and in this
conclusion we all agree.
JUDGMIENT AFFIRMED.

DEITS0H V. WIGGINS.
1. The court calls the attention of the bar to the necessity of a strict compliance with the 21st Rule in the assignment of errors; a compliance
which it declared is necessary to the disposition of the business which
now "presses" upon the court. It accordingly passes without any
notice at all a number of errors meant to be assigned by the plaintiff in
error, but which were not assigned in the way prescribed by the said
rule.
2. In an action of trespass de bonis asportatis,where the issue involves the
question as to where the ownership of the property was, evidence tending
directly to show that an alleged sale, which the plaintiff relied on as the
* Lalor's Reports, 193.

540

DEITSH V. WIGGINS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
basis of his action, was a fraudulent sale, is pertinent to the issue; and
the rejection of it is error.
8. Evidence which, in connection with other evidence offered, tends to make
out a defence, is properly receivable, though it may not itself prove all
the facts necessary to constitute a defence.
4. In a suit of trespass do boais asportatis,against 0. (a sheriff) and D. (the
plaintiff in a writ of attachment executed by the said sheriff), a plea
contains all the averments essential to a justification when it alleges
sufficiently, that. the chattels mentioned in the declaration were the
property of B. on the 4th of May, 1867, that on the 3d of the same
May a writ of attachment was issued out of the court of a county named
in favor of D., directed to the sheriff of the said county, commanding
him to attach so much of the personal and real estate of said B. as should
be sufficient to satisfy a sum specified; that on the said 3d of May, the
said 0. was sheriff of the county named; that on the said day the writ
of attachment was delivered to him to execute; and that on the 4th of
said May, he levied upon the said goods and chattels as the property of
the said B., by virtue of the said writ, and that these were the supposed trespasses. And this is so, even though the plea do not allege
that D. was a creditor of B., nor that the attachment was otherwise
regularly issued, nor that D. did the acts complained of under the direction of the sheriff, nor that the attachment had been returned.
6. However informal such a plea may be, the informality is not such as that,
after a traverse of its allegations, issue, and trial, it can be taken advantage of on error. The plaintiff should have demurred.

the Supreme Court of the Territory of Colorado.
The 21st Rule of this court, as amended November 16th,
1872, and made operative from the first of the following
January,* prescribes that the brief of counsel for the plaintiff in error shall contain:
ERROR to

i. A concise abstract or statement of the case presenting succinctly the questions involved, and the manner in which they
are raised.
ii. An assignment of the errors relied on, which in cases
brought up by writ of error, shall set out separately and specifically each error asserted and intended to be urged.

The same rule, as amended, further says:
ยง 5. When the error alleged is to the charge of the court, the
specification shall set out the part referred to totidem verbis;
whether it be instructions given or instructions refused.
F-14 Wallace, 11.

Dec. 1872.]

DEITSCii V. WiGGINS.
Statement of the case.

ยง 6. When the error alleged is to the admission or to the rejection of evidence, the specification shall quote the fall substance of the'evidence admitted or rejected.

With this rule in force from January 1st, 1873 (and copies
having been sent by the clerk of the court to counsel), the
present case came on to be heard March the 14th following;
and on being called was submitted on the record, with leave
to file briefs by the 17th.
The brief for the plaintiff in error, made in this form its
STATEMENT OF THE CASE.
"This was an action of trespass de bonis asportatis,brought,
by H=. B. Wiggins, David Nash & iHenry 1Nash, partners under
the name of Nash, Wiggins & Co., against W. Z. Oozzens (sheriff),
3Moritz Deitsch, the plaintiff in error, Isadore Deitscb, and Jonas
Deitsch. (See Declaration, pp. 3 and 4 of Record.)
"Process was served on all of the defendants excepting Jonas
Deitsch; as to him there was a return of ' not found.' (Record,
p. 3.) The defendants served with process pleaded:
"1st. The general issue, and there was joinder thereon.
"2d. A special plea, alleging in substance that Cozzens, the
sheriff, took the goods mentioned in the declaration by virtue
of a writ of attachment sued out by his codefendants against
the firm of 0. S. Buell & Co. (Record, pp. 4 and 5.)"*
The plea, which, as it stood in its exact averments, is referred to by this
court in its opinion, was thus:
"And the said defendants, for a further plea in this behalf, according to
the form of the statute in such case made and provided, say actionon; because they say that the goods and chattels in the said plaintiffs' declaration
mentioned, at the time mentioned in the said declaration, to wit, the 4th day
of May, A.D. 1867, were the goods and chattels of the firm of 0. S. Buell
& Co., a firm composed of 0. S. Buell and other persons to these defendants
unknown.
"(And the said defendants aver that, heretofore,.to wit, on the 3d day of
May, A D. 1867, a writ of attachment was issued outof the said District Court
of Gilpin County aforesaid, at the suit of Moritz Deitsch, in favor of the
said Moritz Deitsch, Isadore Deitsch, and Jonas Deitsch, partners doing
business under the name and style of Deitsch & Brothers, directed to the
sheriff of said Gilpin County; which said writ commanded the said sheriff
to attach so much of the estate, real and personal, of the said 0. S. Buell &
Co. to be found in his county, to wit, the said countyof Gilpin, as should be
of value sufficient to satisfy the sum of $1478 and costs; and such estate so
attached in his hands to secure, so as to provide that the same might be liable
to further proceeding according to law, at a court to be holden at the city of
Central, for the said county of Gilpin, upon the second Tuesday of July,

DEITSCH

V. WIGGINS.

[Sup. CL.

Statement of the case.

"The plaintiff replied:
"1st.By taking issue upon the right of property of Buell'&
Co. in the goods, on the 6th of May, 1867. (Record, pp. 5 and 6.)
."2d. Upon the right of property of Buell & Co.,
on the 4th
May, 1867. (Record, pp. 6 and 7.)
"3d. They denied the issuance of the writ of attachment on
the 3d May, 1867, returnable 6th July, 1867, and deny the levy
of the same.
"On these pleadings the issues were closed. (Record, p. 7.)
There was a trial by jury and a verdict of guilty against Cozzens (sheriff) and Moritz Deitsch, the plaintiff in error, damages assessed at $2315.90. (Record, p. 7.) It may be noted at
this point that one of the defendants, Jonas Deitsch, disappears
from the cause, so far as this record is concerned, and unless the
entry on page 7 of the record is to be construed as an appearance in his behalf and another defendant, Isadore Deitsch, for
whom there was an appearance and plea and issue joined, was
dropped from the cause without a verdict for or against him.
(Record, p. 7.)
"On page 8 of the record, the court render a judgment in his
favor for cost, but there does not appear to be any verdict to
support the judgment. Cozzens and Moritz Deitsch moved for
a new trial, and their motion was overruled, and they each separately appealed to the Supreme Court of the Territory of Colorado. (Record, pp. 8 and 9.) A bill of exceptions sets out the
evidence. (Record, pp. 9, 15.) Another bill of exceptions shows.
the rejection of sundry matters of testimony offered by the de1867, so as to compel the said 0. S. Buell & Co. to appear and answer the
complaint of the said Moritz, Isadore, and Jonas Deitsch, which said writ
of attachment was duly signed and attested by the clerk of said court, and
sealed with the seal of said court, and stamped and cancelled in accordance
with the revenue law of the United States.
"And the said defendants further aver that at the time the said writ of
attachment was issued as aforesaid, to wit, on the 3d day of May, A.D.
1867, 'W. Z. Cozzens, one of these defendants, was sheriff of said county of
Gilpin, duly elected and qualified, and acting as such, and was required and
authorized to execute all writs and process issued out of and by the said District Court of said Gilpin County, directed to the sheriff of said county, and
that, on the said last-named day, the said writ of attachment was duly delivered to him, and that, on the said 4th day of May, A.D. 1867, be executed
the said writ by levying upon and taking possession of the goods and chattels in the said declaration mentioned, as the property of the said 0. S. Buell
& Co., under and by virtue of said writ of attachment-which are the said
several supposed trespasses in the said plaintiffs' declaration mentioned-as
the said Cozzens might lawfully do; and this the said defendants are ready to
verify. Wherefore they pray judgment, &c."

Dec. 1872.]

DEITS0CU V. WIGGINS.

Statement of the case.
fendants, and ruled out by the court. (Record, pp. 15, 19.) 'Exceptions were also taken to certain instructions given by the
court, and certain instructions refused. (Record, pp. 19 and 20.)
The Supreme Court of the Territory affirmed the judgment 6f
the inferior court. (Record, p. 22.) From the judgment of the
Supreme Court of the Territory a writ of error is prosecuted
in due form. (Record, pp. 24 to 27.)"
The brief then thus presented an
ASSIGNMENT OF ERRORS.

Error. The Supreme Court of the Territory of Colorado
erred"CIn affirming the judgment of the inferior court of said Territory, which judgment was erroneous in the following particulars:
"1st. In refusing a new trial upon the evidence contained in
the record; 2d, in admitting testimony improperly, and in rejecting testimony improperly, as shown by the bills of exception
and specifically as follows:
"In excluding testimony tending to show that the plaintiffs
below closed up their business shortly after the levy, and how
long they continued in business after the levy. (Record, p. 10.)
"In excluding evidence as to what was said and what occurred
between Nash, one of the plaintiffs below, and Cozzens, one of
the defendants below, at plaintiff's store when the goods were
invoiced. (Record, p. 10, last paragraph )
"In excluding testimony as to what was the occupation of
Cozzens (sheriff), one of the defendants, at the time he took the
goods, and the reasons he gave for taking them. (Record, p. 1.)
"In overruling the offer of defendants below to prove that
the goods taken were a part of the stock of the merchandise of
0. S. Buell, who transacted business under the style of 0. S.
Buell & Co., and that the witness, C. E. Sherman, was the clerk
of said 0. S. Buell for the space of about six months prior to
the 4th day of May, 1867; that for two or three months prior
to the 2d or 6th day of May, A.D. 1867, the said 0. S. Buell
was absent from the said Territory of Colorado; that during
the absence of said Buell, said Sherman was the clerk of said
Buell to carry on the regular business of said Buell, in Central
City, Gilpin County, Colorado Territory, which was retailing

DEITSCH V. WIGGINS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the ease.
clothing and merchandising; that the said Sherman had no
right or' authority whatever to sell or dispose of the entire stock
of goods of said Buell, but was only authorized to sell in the
regular course of business; that on the 29th of April, 1867, J.
Q. Nash, agent of the plaintiff, well knowing that said Sherman
was not authorized to sell the entire stock of goods, fraudulently
agreed, combined, and confederated with the said Sherman to
make a pretended purchase of the entire stock of goods for the
purpose of hindering, delaying, and defrauding the defendants,
Moritz Deitsch, Isadore Deitsch, and Jonas Deitsch, defendants
herein, and other creditors; that the said Nash well knew that
the said Jonas Deitsch, Moritz Deitsch, and Isadore Deitsch,
defendants, were creditors of said Buell to a large amount, and
that such sale was designed by him to cheat, hinder, and defraud said defendants; that said stock of goods was well worth
the sum of $10,000, but was sold ,to said Nash, Wiggins & Co.
for a grossly inadequate sum; that whatever money was paid,
if any, or securities given, if any, were so cancelled, smuggled,
and arranged to protect and place it beyond the reach of defendants and for the benefit of the said Buell, Nash, Wiggins &
Co., and J. Q. Nash and said Sherman. (Record, p. 15.)
"In excluding the evidence of the attachment proceedings
against 0. S. Buell & Co. (Record, pp. 15-18.)
"In instructions of the court given to the jury and the instructions refused. (Record, pp. 19 and 20.)"
The brief then concluded thus, with
POINTS AND ARGUMENT

FOR THE PLAINTIFF IN

ERROR.

"The points and argument are sufficiently developed in the
statement of the case and the assignment of errors, and it would
be but repetition to state them in a different form. The rulings
of the court of original jurisdiction were clearly erroneous in
admitting improper testimony, in excluding testimony that was
legitimate and proper, and in its instructions to the jury given
and refused.
"In the narrative contained in the foregoing statement this
court will note some irregularities, but how far they can benefit
this plaintiff in his present suit the undersigned pretends not to
say. The matters referred to are these: The rendition of a
judgment for costs in favor of Isadore Deitsch after an issue
joined without any verdict upon that issue. (Record, pp. 7 and

Dec. 1872.]

DEITSCH V. WIGGINS.
Statement of the case.

8.) The disappearance from the record of the proceedings of
Jonas Deitsch after a return of ' not fbund,' without even a continuance or a nol. pros.; the eheriff's return as to him, is on page
3 of the record. These are mere matters of form, yet the forms
of judicial proceedings often become matters of substance. It
is, however, confidently believed that the refusal to allow the
official character of the sheriff's proceedings to be proved, and
the res gesto at the time of the seizure in their entirety, will be
conclusive of this case. Furthermore, it is insisted that the
paragraph on page 19 of the record, from the judge's charge, in
the following words, is a fatal error: 'If the jury believe from
the evidence that, at the time defendant, Cozzens, was packing
up the goods and chattels mentioned in the declaration, Moritz
Deitsch was there assisting in selecting the same, without consent of plaintiffs, then he was guilty of trespass, and if he had
the consent of the said plaintiff-, it is incumbent on the defendant, Deitseh, to prove such consent.'
"That paragraph should have been qualified under all the
circumstances of the case by words to show that assisting a
sheriff in the execution of process was not trespass."
The brief for the defendant in error arguea the.case just
as if the brief of the plaintiff in error (which when the former brief was filed had not apparently been yet seen), had
been in strict conformity with the 21st Rule; the counsel
for the defendant in error, who prepared it, getting the
whole of the plaintiff in error's case out of the record, and
anticipating or conjecturing the argument which would be
made upon it.
As respected the special plea, this brief argued that being
joint it was defective for several reasons, and among them:
1st. In not alleging that the Deitsches were creditors of
0. S. Buell & Co., against whom they had a subsisting debt.
2d. In not making an allegation that the Deitsches did
the acts complained of, under the direction of the sheriff
&c., nor any attempt to justify the act on the part of any one
except Cozzens.
3d. In not making any allegation that the writ of attachment had been returned; for if (it was argued) the returnday had passed before the special plea was filed, the officer
VOL. XV.

85

DEITSCII V. WIGGINS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

justifying under the writ should allege a return; since if he
did not return it he was a trespasser, even if the goods were
the property of Buell & Co.
Mr. J. Hughes, for the piaintiff in error; Messrs. Chipman
and Hosmer, contra.
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
Most of the assignments of error have been made in total
disregard of the twenty-first rule of this court. That rule is
necessary to the disposition of the business which presses
upon us, and it is our intention hereafter to enforce strict
compliance with its demands. If errors are not assigned in
the manner required, the assignments will be treated as if
not made at all, and we feel justified in passing without
notice the greater number of those which are alleged to appear in this record. There are, however, some of the assignments which, though not made in full conformity with the
rule, we think it is proper for us to consider.
The action'was trespass "de bonis asportatis," and the
plaintiffs in the court below averred "property" in the
goods in themselves. The declaration was met by a plea
of the general issue, and by a special plea alleging that the
property in the goods was in 0. S.Buell & Co., and that the
alleged trespass consisted in a sheriff's seizure under an
attachment issued out of the District Court of Gilpin County
at the suit of Deitsch & Brothers. The special plea was in
some respects informal, but instead of demurring, the plaintiffs traversed its averments, and the parties went to trial
on the issues thus formed. It was then a material inquiry
whether the ownership of the goods was in the plaintiffs
when the seizure was made, or whether it was in O. S.
Buell & Co., and to that inquiry the evidence offered by the
defendants, that they had belonged to Buell & Co., that
during the absence of the firm from the Territory, their
clerk, without authority, and in fraudulent combination
with the plaintiffs' agent, had made a sale of them to the
.plaintiffs, was undoubtedly pertinent. If there was no au-

Dec. 1872.]

HANNEWINKLE V. GEORGETOWN.
Statement of the case.

thority to sell, plainly the plaintiffs had acquired no title.
And if the sale was a fraud upon the creditors of Buell &
Co., the goods were liable to an attachment at the suit of
those creditors. It was an error, therefore, to exclude the
evidence.
The attachment should also have been received in connection with the proof of the unauthorized and fraudulent sale.
It is no sufficient objection to it that it did not itself prove
all the facts necessary to constitute a complete defence. It
is said the special plea averring the attachment was bad.
If so, it should have been met by a demurrer. But we think
the plea contained all the averments essential to a justification, and had the facts set forth in it been established, a
recovery by the plaintiffs below would have been impossible.
There are other errors apparent in the record, but as they
are not properly assigned we pass them without notice.
JUDGMENT REV4RSED, AND A VENIRE DE NOVO DIRECTED.

"ANNEWINKLE

V. GEORGETOWN.

1. A bill to restrain the collection of a tax cannot be maintained on the sole
ground of the illegality of the tax. There must be an allegation of
fraud; that it creates a cloud upon the title; that there is apprehension
of multiplicity of suits, or the allegation of some cause presenting a
case of equity jurisdiction.
2. There exists no such cloud upon the title as justifies the interference of a
court of equity, where the proceedings are void upon their face. Dows
v. The City of Chicago (11 Wallace, 109), affirmed.
APPEAL from a decree of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia.
Hannewinkle filed his bill against the corporation of the
city f Georgetown and its collector of taxes, to enjoin them
from selling certain real estate for a tax claimed by the corporation under a certain act of Congress, which made part
of the city cldarter. The bill alleged that the corporation
attempted to condemn to public use, and open and improve
Stoddard Street in that city; that the, complainant owned

