Dec. 1872.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. JOHNSON.
Opinion of the court.

must be, it is plainly erroneous, as it warranted the jury in
finding for the plaintiff, whether the ingredient substituted
fof the one omitted was new or old, or whether the one substituted was or was not well known at the date of the plaintiff's patent as a proper substitute for the omitted ingredient.
JUDGMENT REVERSED AND A NEW VENIRE ORDERED.

RAILROAD

COMPANY

V.

JOHNSON.

The constitutionality of the acts of Congress of February 25th, 1862, and
of subsequent acts in addition thereto, making certain notes of the
United States a legal tender in payment of debts, reaffirmed.

IN error to the Supreme Court of Errors of Connecticut.
Johnson sued the Norwich and Worcester Railroad Company on certain coupons for interest attached to bonds,
made by the said company A. D. 1860. When the coupons
fell due, the amount was tendered in the legal-tender notes
of the United States, issued under the act of Congress of
February 25th, 1862, and the several acts in addition thereto,
and they were refused. The State court rendered judgment
that this tender was not good, and that the plaintiff should
receive the amount with interest in the gold and silver coin
of the United States. This writ of error was brought to
reverse that judgment.
Mr. J. Halsey, for the plaintiff in error. No opposing eounsel.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
In accordance with the principles settled by this court in
the cases of Knox v. Lee, and Parker v. -Davis,* which were
affirmed in _Dooley v. Srnilh,t the tender was a good and valid
one, and the judgment for coin is erroneous, and must be
reversed.
* 12 Wallace, 457.

t 18 Id. 604.

PELHAM V. WAY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

It is, therefore, ordered that the judgment of the Supreme
Court of Errors of Connecticut be, and the same is hereby,
REVERSED, and the cause fiemanded to that court for further
proceedings
IN CONFORMITY WITH
THIS OPINION.

The CHIEF JUSTICE dissenting: I think it my duty
to express my dissent from the judgment just announced,
for the reasons stated in the opinion of the court in Hepburn
v. Griswold,* and in the dissenting opinions in Knox v. Lee,
and Parker v. Davis.
My brothers CLIFFORD and FIELD concur in this
dissent.

PELHAM V. WAY.
When, under the act of July 17th, 1862, "to suppress insurrection, to punish
treason and rebellion, to seize and confiscate the property of rebels,
and for other purposes," the libel and monition have been framed in
such a way, and the marshal has served his process in such a way, that
notwithstanding the completion of the proceeding and a sale in form,
intended to divest the rebel of his property, the property has not, after
,all, been divested in law, and the rebel's rights remain uninjured, he
cannot in an action against the marshal for a false return recover more
than nominal damages.

ER-oR to the Circuit Court of the United States for the

District of Indiana.
An act of Congress, approved July 17th, 1862, and entitled "An act to suppress insurrection, to punish treason
and rebellion, to seize and confiscate the property of rebels,
and for other purposes," among other things, provided,
"that if any person within any State or Territory of the
United States other tlidn those named as aforesaid after the
passage of this act, being engaged in armed rebellion against
the government of the United States, or aiding or abetting
such rebellion, shall not, within sixty days after public warn* 8 Wallace, 603.

