TIFFANY V. LUCAS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

This presents an interesting question, which, when it is properly before us, will receive the careful attention of the court.
In the present case it does not appear to have been presented
to the court below, and there is nothing in the evidence to
justify this court in now considering it. Upon the case, as
it comes before us, the judgment.must be
AFFIRMED.

TIFFANY V. LUCAS.
1. A sale by a person in fact insolvent and made within six months of a
bankruptcy subsequently decreed, is not necessarily and without regard
to its character, void under the 35th section of the Bankrupt Act.
2. If it was made in good faith, for the honest purpose of discharging debt,
and in the confident expectation that by so doing the person could continue his business, it will be upheld. On the contrary, if he made it to
evade the provisions of the Bankrupt Act, and to withdraw his property
from its control, and the vendee either knew or had reasonable cause to
believe that the vendor's intention was of this character, it will be
avoided.
3. Thus two things must concur to avoid the sale: the fraudulent design of
the bankrupt and the knowledge of it on the part of the vendee, or reasonable cause to believe it existed.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of Missouri; the case being thus:
Lucas purchased in April, 1869, from Darby (then in debt)
a piece of real estate in St. Louis: the deed being made on
the 24th of that month. At a meeting of Darby's creditors,
held on the 17th of June following, he was told by them
that he must file his petition to be adjudged a bankrupt, or
that he would be forced into bankruptcy. On that day he
discontinued business, and on the 1st of July presented his
petitioh praying to be adjudged'a bankrupt, and on the 12th
following was adjudged a bankrupt accordingly; one Tiffany being appointed his assignee. Tiffany soon afterwards
filed a bill in the District Court for the District of Missouri,

Dec. 1872.]

TIFFANY v. LUCAS.
Statement of the case.

to avoid the sale to Lucas as made in contravention of the
35th section of the Bankrupt Act. That section is thus:
"If any person, being insolvent or in contemplation of insolvency or bankruptcy, within six months before the filing of the
petition by or against him, makes any payment, salo, assignment, transfer, conveyance, or other disposition of his property
to any person who then has reasonable cause to believe him to
be insolvent, or to be acting in contemplation of insolvency,
and that such payment, sale, assignment, transfer, or other conveyance is made with a view to prevent his propprty coming to
his assignee in bankruptcy, or to prevent the same from being
distributed under this act, or to defeat the object of, or in any
way impair, hinder, or delay the operation and effect of, or
evade any provision of this act, the sale, assignment, transfer,
or conveyance shall be void. . . And if such sale, assignment,
transfer, or conveyance is not made in the usual and ordinary
course of business of the debtor, the fact shall be prirndfacieevidence of fraud."
The question, of course, was whether the sale had been
made under any of the circufiustances mentioned in this section. The facts seemed to be these:
The property was confessedly valuable. It was a large
lot, at the southwest corner of Olive and Fifth Streets, St.
Louis, 75 feet front on Fifth Street by 127 deep, with three
marble stores, five stories high,- upon it; that it had cost
near or quite $100,000 to build; the position being by some
thought, from their judgment as to the course trade in St.
Louis was likely to take, and of prospective values, to be the
best in that growing city; and by a few regarded even as
such for its present advantages, though the general judgment was that a neighboring corner-the corner of Olive
and Fourth-was at that time a better situation than this.
Whatever was its relative advantage, its positive value was
attested to in many ways. Among them, by the fact that in
the summer of 1868, Darb* wanting to borrow $150,000 on
mortgage of an insurance company in Philadelphia on this
property, Lucas, who had long lived in St. Louis, was possessed of great wealth and was particularly conversant with

TIFFANY V. LUCAS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

the values of real estate, along with a certain Britton, president of the National Bank of the State of Missouri, also very
conversant with values, gave him a certificate thus:
"Having been called upon by Mr. Darby to estimate and
state the value of his property in the city of St. Louis, on the
southwest corner of Olive and Fifth Streets [description], we
state that we are well acquainted with it, and that we consider
it well worth the sum of $300,000. We value the same accordingly at that sum.
"J. H. LUCAS.
11 T.

=1.:BRITTCON.

"ST. Louis, September, 1868."

Lucas in buying the property paid $50,000 in cash, and
assumed to pay the mortgage of $150,000, which had five
years from November, 1868, to run, and bore interest at 8
per cent. a year. The mortgage -required the owner of the
property so long as it remained unpaid to keep the stores
insured to the extent of $100,000. After the sale to Lucas
was completed, there were different persons who said to
Darby that they could have found a man who would have
given more; "fellows," said Darby, "who came around and
talked." One of them made mention particularly of a certain
Robert Campbell, a man of property, who he said would
have given more. But Campbell had never offered more.
Darby had in fact, in a private way, been trying unsuccessfully for some time to sell the property. Certain persons
testified, on the other hand, that in their opinion Lucas had
given as much as the property was worth, in the then state
of prices for real estate at St. Louis, where anticipations
prevailed, among several persons, of a prompt return to
specie payments, an event which, if it should occur, the
dealers in'real estate supposed would cause a great fall in
the values there of that kind of property. Assuming, as the
fact seemed to be, that productive real estate in the best
parts of St. Louis commonly yielded 6 p. c. on its cost, and
that money was worth 8 p. c. (the rate paid on the mortgage
of $150,000), the rental of this particular property during a
year that Lucas held it, indicated that the price, so far as

Dec. 1872.]

418-

TIFFANY V. LUCAS.
Statement of the case.

present income, and estimates divested of anticipations of
future value were concerned, was not unfair. ThusThe gross rental was,
Deduct interest on $200,000 at 8 p. c.,
$16,000
Insurance, $100,000 at say J of 1 p. c.,
750
Taxes (in 1869),
.2,900
Repairs, agency, care of the buildings, &c. (say),
850
Loss of annual income, compared with income
from $200,000 personally, at interest at 8 p. c.,

$17,500

20,000
$2,500

In fact the buildings, though very costly, had been injudiciously arranged. Adverting to the small income from
the rents, witnesses who estimated the property at $300,000,
and even $330,000, conceived that a 6 p. c. rental on that
sum could soon be had, if about $10,000 were laid out in
"guti"
part of the buildings and changing the plan.
When Lucas purchased the property of Darby there was
just coming due to the insurance company six months' interest ($6000) on the mortgage given by Darby. This, and
also the State and county taxes for the current year, Darby
promised to pay. The former, he did pay; the latter, inasmuch as the collector did not come round until after he was
bankrupt, when he was unable to pay, Lucas had to discharge.
The first movement in regard to the sale came from
Darby, through one liogeman. This Hogeman was cashier
of the Boatman's Saving Bank, of which Lucas was a director-an "ornamental director," as he styled himself,-who
"did not by any means consider himself responsible for
what was done, and who went there more for the sake of
getting the news than anything else." This same bank had
been for a long time in the habit of discounting (when it
was well indorsed) Darby's paper, and its cashier thus knew
that Darby was always pressed for ready money. In this
way, ilogeman stood in a sort of friendly relation to both
the parties, and to both had apparently good feelings.
Darby talked with H.ogeman confidentially. "I told him,"
said he, "that I wanted to sell my property and settle my
debts and quit-off everything; and I asked him to sell it for

414

TIFFANY V. LUCAS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

me if he could, and do all that he could to sell it for me;
and he promised to do it." Hogeman then offered the
property to Lucas, and urged him to make a proposition.
Lucas after a certain time offered $50,000. Darby wanted
him to assume the payment of the taxes, $2900, for the
current year. This he refused to do. le would give
$50,000 and assume nothing but payment of the mortgage
of $150,000. Things remained a few days, when ilogeman
advised Darby to accept the offer. He said he thought that
more could not be got; that the sum offered would enable
Darby "to.get out of debt, pay all up, square out, and
relieve himself, and go on and sell out the residue of his
real estate." Darby accordingly accepted the offer. A few
days after that the parties met. Darby prepared and executed a deed for the property; Lucas filled up and signed a
check for $50,000; not retaining any part of this purchasemoney to pay either the $6000 interest now payable on the
mortgage or the $2900 taxes for the current year then partially due. Hogeman received $500 from Darby for his
services.
Thus, in the transaction itself, there seemed nothing that
condemned it. The matters which involved it in question
were certain facts indicative of Darby's condition and intent, which it was supposed by his assignee and general
creditors must have been known to Lucas, and, if known,
showed that he purchased knowing that Darby contemplated bankruptcy.
The case, in regard to these, seemed thus:
On the one band, Darby, who bad settled himself in St.
Louis many years ago as an exchange broker, doing banking business also, was testified to be "a man of wonderful
energy and capacity for business." Ie had failed in the
fiscal crisis of 1841-2, but "worked through that dismal
season, lost some of his property, but saved part and got
soon on his feet again." In the next fiscal crisis, which was
A.D. 1857, "lie encountered enormous losses, went under
for a while, out in the end came up and paid his debts with
10 p. c. interest;" so that in 1864 he was again afloat, and in

Dec. 1872.]

TIFFANY V. LUCAS.
Statement of the case.

1867-8-9, a hopeful, active, and popular man of businessa broker and banker-on the full tide of money-making experiments, in various sorts of ways. He had some of the
most valuable real estate in that large and growing city, including the property now in controversy and other valuable
property in Main Street. He owned a lead mine also, in
Missouri, from which in one year the yield was $33,000, and
which would have been a source of income to him bad it
not been managed by fraudulent agents. His rents from his
city property in inflated times, as ex. gr., prior to 1857, and
in that year, amounted to between $40,000 and $50,000. His
probity and honor were conceded.- He had warm friends;
among them Dr. B,'otherton and Mr. Knox, the latter of
whom had once been his partner, and knew him well;
men of character and property both, and who had apparently such confidence in his capacity and resources that they
indorsed his paper continually and for large sums, believing,
as would seem, that though embarrassed he would bear
himself up and in the end come out sound, so far at least as
entire solvency was concerned. At the very time of his suspension he had depositors on his books to the extent of
$170,000; among them Mr. Polk, a leading member of the
bar at St. Louis, for $40,000, and Mr. Inge for $10,000.
When Mr. Knox, who was a lawyer and gentleman of standing, was asked by the president of the Boatman's Savings
Bank, which, as already and hereafter mentioned, was constantly discounting Darby's paper at rates of from 10 to 18
p. c., whether Darby was good, Mr. Knox replied that he
was perfectly good, " as good as anybody." None of his
paper ever got to protest, and he paid all his obligations as
they care due. He appeared to have kept his efforts to
raise money and all facts which might destroy his credit in
a remarkable degree from the public generally; so that even
persons in the walks of business seemed not much informed
of the shifts to which he was driven. Mr. Britton, already
named, president of a bank and an intimate acquaintance
for years of Darby's, "could not say" that he regarded him
for"two or three years before his failure in imminent danger

TIFFANY v. LuCAS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

of failing, and "was a good deal surprised when he heard that
he had failed." He had, however, not gone now voluntarily
into bankruptcy. On the contrary, though he had stopped
payment and called his creditors together, he sought an extension; stating that with time he could pay all. It was one
of his creditors, Mr. Polk, his largest depositor, who considered that he could not go on, and that the only safety of the
creditors was an immediate winding up under the eye of a
court of bankruptcy.
On the other hand, he seemed to be one of that class of
persons--more or less known in all of the large cities of our
country-who beginning with little or no capital, are yet
doing from the outset a large business; always borrowing,
or trying to borrow money; periodically failing, but never,
as they consider, broken; or if broken in the end, broken
only by other people, and by some vis major of commercial
vicissitudes, for which, in their judgment, even the most
prudent man is not responsible in the eye of discretion.
Thus the whole cash capital of Darby when after his
failure in 1857 he set up the business of a banker in 1864,
was $5000. For the rest he "did business on deposits."
Though thus banking, and banking therefore in a way
where credit was of supreme importance to him, his notes,
continually prior to 1869, were in the hands of different
street brokers-three or four at least-and often sold at
from 1 to 1- per cent. a month. All his real estate was incumbered to the fullest extent to which he could incuinber
it; the mortgages on it generally overdue. He had been
paying as high as 10 per cent. interest on deposits. All the
money he had on deposits, both in St. Louis and New York,
was $800. He had no stocks or bills receivable. For six
months before his suspension he had been discounting his
rents. For three or four years before he suspended lie had
lost about $25,000 a year in his business; for two or three
years prior to 1869 he had paid about $40,000 a year in usury.
At the time of his suspensioii he had $50,000 of accommodation paper out.
His cashier and bookkeeper from 1866 up to the time of

Dec. 1872.]

TIFFANY V. LUCAS.
Statement of the case.

his suspension was examined as a witness. His testimony
gave a view of the interior conduct of the bank. The witiess said in substance:
"I thought 31r. Darby was much embarrassed for two years
before his failure. I judged so from the appearance of his cash
and the trouble he had in getting money. From the time I
went into his employment, he was in the cohstant habit of raising money through street brokers. Some of the checks drawn
by his depositors were honored only after hesitancy; he sometimes had to get the money to pay them. Mr.. Darby bad a
very small amount of cash on hand at any one time. I do not
suppose that he ever had over $5000 on an average. Some five
or six mohths before he failed I had to go to pay a check after
banking hours at the Second National Bank. The check was
for $150 or $175. During the last year he was in business, ten
or twelve cheeks were presented when we had not money to
meet them. I know it plagued me very often a great deal. It
vexed me to think we had to put them off. I was often asked
for a year or two before his failure if he was not much embarrassed. Of course, I always denied it, in order to save his
credit. I do not know that anybody outside of his office knew
of the shifts to which he was forced to resort for ready money.
Five or six months before his failure he was uneasy about one
of his depositors, Mr. Polk (who had a deposit of $40,000), calling for his money. It was payable on demand. lHe said that
it would break him if Polk called on him as he expected that
he would; that he would have to hurry round to see if he could
make a raise of the money, and he did not know how he would
raise it. He always remarked that he was trying to sell his
lead mines; that if he could only sell them for $100,000 he could
meet these things. His money on hand would not average over
$5000; possibly he might 'have 85000 to-night, and $100 the
next night; the next day he might have $10,000, and it would
be drawn out before twelve o'clock next day. He had no great
deal of money at the East-very little-for a year befbre his
failure. He sold exchange on the East when he had no funds
there, and then raised money to meet it. This he did a year
before his failure; it became more common as early as the February before his fhilure. There was no entry on the books of'
the notes sold by street brokers. Very few active business men
VOL. XV.

27

TIFFANY V. LUCAS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

bad deposits there. His capital was $5000. Besides Mr. Polk's
deposit of $40,000, Mr. Inge bad a certificate for $10,000 also
payable on demand. Polk called for $10,000; Mr. Inge never
called for his."
On the other hand again, it was stated by this same witness, that when Darby without money there Was thus drawing time-drafts on New York-" kiting"-to raise money
for present urgent demands at St. Louis, he sold those
drafts-in one instance two, amounting to $7500-" at the
usual rates,... the regular rate of exchange at the time;"
and this to banks; the Third National and the Traders'.
Whether they were indorsed, and if so by whom, did not
appear in the testimony.
Both Darby and Lucas were examined as witnesses, the
former by the assignee; the latter for himself.
In regard to Darby the following questions and answers
-were made:

"Q. Were you in contemplation of bankruptcy at any time
exceeding two months before you actually were compelled to
take the benefit of the bankrupt law?
"A. I never thought of going into bankruptcy at all.
"Q. You always expected to settle up your debts and pay
your creditors?
"A. That was my object, and I called my creditors together
here, and asked them to let me settle up my debts; that I could
do it, and that I had no expectation of going into bankruptcy.
"Q. Then you had no contemplation of going into bankruptcy when you stopped?
"A. Not when I stopped; but when I called my creditors together, I asked them to let me do this. Mr. Polk made a speech
and said it could not be done, and they passed a resolution that
I should go into bankruptcy, and that is the reason I went.
"Q. At the time you made this conveyance to Mr. Lucas,
.you had no expectation of going into bankruptcy?
"A. No, sir."
:So Lucas. The bill filed by the assignee to set aside the
-sale, had charged that Lucas retained $6000 (the amount
due for interest on the mortgage at the time of the sale) out

Dec. 1872.]

TIFFANY V. LUCAS.
Statement of the case.

of the $50,000, the consideration of the sale, lest Darby
should not pay it. The following questions and answers
were now made.

"Q. Is this true?
"A. No, it is not; I never had the least idea of Mr. Darby's
not paying it. The proof is that I paid him a $50,000 check
without reservation of any kind. I have always thought Mr.
Darby an honorable man-a man in business that could be relied upon. That was my opinion all the time, and I acted with
him as I would with any other gentleman that I thought would
be a punctilious business man.
"Q. State if you had confidence in his solvency also?
"A. I had, I assure you; it never occurred to me to think
otherwise; I knew he had been embarrassed and borrowing
money, but some of the best men in town indorsed for him, who
were said to be perfectly good; stood by him, and I suppose
knew more of his business, and would not have done it if they
had not known that they were justified in so doing.
"Q. Had you any intimation that Mr. Darby was in bankrupt circumstances ?
"A. No, sir; none whatever. I had no intimation from any
quarter, except if it should be that a man's paper is selling on
the street, and some person might think that is an evidence;
but I know from my own experience that a man may sell his
paper on the street at a great sacrifice and still not be broke, by
any means.
"Q. When did you first receive any intimation or knowledge
that Mr. Darby was a bankrupt?
"A. I do not recollect how long it was; but some time after
the transaction I had with him."
The answer to the bill which had charged the insolvency
of Darby at the time of the sale, and Lucas's knowledge of
it then, ran thus:
"The respondent further answering says that disclosures and
information subsequent to the date of the deed, have led the respondent to the conclusion that the said Darby was, at the time
of making said deed, in insolvent circumstances, but at the time
when the said deed was made and delivered, and the said con-

420

TIrFANY V. LUCAS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.
sideration paid, he, the said Lucas, had no suspicion or belief
that the said Darby was in failing or insolvent circumstances,
or in contemplation of bankruptcy or insolvency; nor bad the
said Lucas any reason to believe the said Darby to be insolvent,
or to be acting in contemplation of insolvency at the time when
the said sale and conveyance were effected, nor until a long time
thereafter. On the contrary thereof, the said Lucas had been
for many years acquainted with the said Darby as a banker, and
the owner of valuable real estate in and about the city of St.
Louis, and considered him a wealthy man. He knew that the
said Darby had incumbered some of his real estate in furtherance of his business as a banker, but regarded such action on
the part of the said Darby as indicating merely his, the said
Darby's, belief that the profits he could make as banker out of
the money borrowed, would exceed the interest he would pay
therefor."
Speaking of the value of the property, Lucas said "that

at one time Fifth Street looked as if business was going to
run off of Fourth; but that this had been changed. Still
that Fifth Street would come out in the long run, and that
this would be one of the best pieces of property on it; that
it was so now; but that the house was not well-planned, not
planned as such a house ought to be; that it should be
planned in a way greatly different, when it would be worth
much more; but that he did not notice that till after he had
bought it." Lucas had heard "that somebody had offered
$300,000 for the property, but he never knew who that was."
Darby, however, testified that he had never been offered
$300,000 for the property, and that what Lucas heard was a
mistake.
Britton, who with Lucas had given the certificate (supra,
p. 412), when Lucas wanted to borrow money on the property, that it was well worth $300,000, was also examined.
He said:
"I have this to say in regard to this certificate: I have been
frequently called on to value property that way where parties
made a loan, and where it was understood distinctly that they
gave 50 per cent. only of the value of the property, and there-

Dec. 1872.]

TIFFANY v. :LuoA.
Opinion of the court.

fore I have been liberal in these valuations, and so stated to the
parties where they have been made."
The District Court, where the bill was filed, dismissed it,
and the Circuit Court affirmed the decree. The question
here on appeal, where the matter was fully argued, was
whether such action was right.
.Mr. S. Knox, for the appellant; Mr. T. Gantt, contra.
.Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
There would seem to be no difficulty in ascertaining the
meaning of Congress on the subject embraced in the 35th
section of the Bankrupt Act (in contravention of which this
sale is alleged to have been made), in its application to this
case. Clearly all sales are not forbidden. It.would be absurd to suppose that Congress intended to set the seal of
condemnation on every transaction of the bankrupt which
occurred within six months of bankruptcy, without regard
to its character. A policy leading to such a result would
be an excellent contrivance for paralyzing business, and
cannot be imputed to Congress without an express declaration to that eiffct. The interdiction applies to sales for a
fiaudulent object, not to those with an honest purpose. The
law does not recognize that every sale of property by an
embarrassed person is necessarily in fraud of the Bankrupt
Act. If it were so, no one would know with whom he could
safely deal, and besides, a person in this condition would
have no encouragement to make proper efforts to extricate
himself from difficulty.
It is for the interest of the community that every one
should continue his business, and avoid, if possible, going
into bankruptcy, and yet how could this result be obtained
if the privilege were denied a person who was unable to
command ready money to meet his debts as they fell due, of
making a fair disposition of his property in order to accomplish this object.
It is true he may fail, notwithstanding all his efforts, in
keeping out of bankruptcy, and in that case any sale he has

TIFFANY V. LUCAS.

[Sup. Or.

Opinion of the couit.

made within six months of that event is subject to examination. If it shall turn out on that examination that it was
made in good faith, for the honest purpose of discharging
his indebtedness, and in the confident expectation that by
so doing he could continue his business, it will be upheld.
On the contrary, if he made it to evade the provisions of
the Bankrupt Act, and to withdraw his property from its
control, and his vendee either knew, or had reasonable cause
to believe, that his intention was of this character, it will be
avoided. Two things must concur to bring the sale within
the prohibition of the law: the fraudulent design of the
bankrupt and the knowledge of it on the part of the vendee,
or reasonable cause to believe that it existed.
The evidence in this case, fairly weighed, negatives both
these conditions. If Darby's conduct was unwise, it was
prompted by correct motives. There could have been no
intention, on his part, of violating any of the provisions of
the bankrupt law, for he did not contemplate the necessity
of going into bankruptcy. His action was not based on the
idea, even, that he was in a bankrupt condition. On the
contrary he believed his property, if converted into money,
would pay his debts, and this belief induced him to set to
work to accomplish that object. There was no thought of
preferring one creditor over another, because he was convinced of his ability to pay all. In the execution of his
purpose to sell his property and pay his debts, the sale was
made to Lucas, and it cannot be impeached because it turns
out that Darby was mistaken in his calculations. There is
no arbitrary rule by which the good faith of a transaction
can be tested. It may be that ordinary men in similar circumstances would have acted differently, but this is no
reason to condemn the conduct of men like Darby. Possessed of uncommon energy and great business capacity;
having in previous crises of his fortune surmounted difficulties of equal, if not greater, magnitude, he was not appalled
by a state of affairs which, to a man not above the common
level would have been a hopeless undertaking. That he
failed proves nothing, for other men, whose integrity was

Dec. 1872.]

TIFFANY V. LUCAS.
Opinion of the court.

above suspicion, have also failed. It would have undoubtedly been better for some of his creditors if he had taken a
less hopeful view of his situation, but they cannot on this
account attack the sale in conti'oversy. It was made in good
faith for an honest purpose, and is not within the condemnation of the law.
If Darby did not intend to defraud his creditors by withdrawing his property from the operation of the Bankrupt
Act, it is not easy to see how Lucas can be charged with
aiding him to do it, even if at the time he suspected his insolvency. But it is unnecessary to consider this point, for,
in our opinion, the evidence fails to establish that, at the
time Lucas purchased the property, he had reasonable cause
to believe Darby to be insolvent, or to be acting in contemplation of insolvency. If he believed him insolvent, why
trust him to pay six thousand dollars due for interest in a
few days after the sale, instead of retaining in his own hands'
enough money to pay it. His conduct on that occasion cannot be explained on the theory of his belief in Darby's insolvency; but we are not concerned with his actual belief
on the subject. The real inquiry is, had he good grounds for
believing that insolvency existed. It appears that Darby's
banking paper had been met up to the date of the sale, and
it is a fair inference that the real estate paper secured by
deed of trust, which was overdue, remained in that condition by consent of parties. Britton, the president of the
National Bank of the State of Missouri, located in St. Louis,
considered Darby to be wealthy, and was a good deal surprised when he heard of his failure. This reputation for
wealth was not confined to Britton, but was shared by others
on account of a supposed ownership of a large amount of
real estate. The Third National Bank and the Traders'
Bank, a short time preceding the sale, took his exchange on
New York at the usual rates, and others dealt with him as
if he were entirely solvent. Polk, a leading lawyer of the
city, held his certificate of deposit for forty thousand dollars,
and Knox and Brotherton, prominent citizens, were in the
habit of indorsing his paper. These parties, from their

424

TIFFANY v. LUCAS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

course of dealing, of necessity regarded him as a solvent
man. If so, why should Lucas suspect his condition to be
otherwise?
All of them had equal opportunities with Lucas of knowing his real condition, and some far better, for Knox and
Brotherton were on terms of intimacy with him, while Lucas
was not. If they were ignorant of the exact state of his
affairs, how can Lucas, with less familiarity with them, be
supposed to be in a different condition. It is claimed, however, that Lucas is chargeable with notice that Darby's, paper
was in the hands of street brokers, because the Boatman's
Institution, of which lie was a director, purchased it from
them, and that paper put oil the street in this manner is
evidence that the maker is insolvent. This conclusion by
no means follows, for a man may sell his paper on the street
at a great sacrifice to effect a purpose deemed beneficial by
him, and still not be insolvent. This proceeding undoubtedly tended to show that Darby was embarrassed, but, if
his paper bore the indorsement of good men of reputable
standing and recognized wealth, it is reasonable to suppose
they were satisfied with his pecuniary status. This supposition is verified in the case of Knox, one of the indorsers,
who, when asked by the president of the institution "how
good is Darby ?" replied, "as good as anybody." It is fair
to infer that this information quieted any misgivings which
this officer had about purchasing the paper, and that Lucas,
with the other directors, was told what Knox said. If so,
it is idle to say that the confidence of Lucas in Darby's solvency had nothing to rest on. If it be conceded that the
mode of raising money adopted by Darby had a tendency to
create distrust in the mind of Lucas, it is nevertheless apparent that the fact of two men of substance indorsing his
paper, coupled with the broad declaration of one of them on
the subject of his pecuniary condition, was well calculated
to remove this distrust and establish his credit.
It is contended, however, by way of impeachment of the
good faith of the transaction in controversy, that the property was sold for less than its value, but we are by no means

Dec. 1872.]

TIFFANY v. LUCAS.
Opinion of the court.

satisfied that this is so. The evidence on this subject consists chiefly of the opinions of witnesses upon the relative
and prospective values of corner lots upon rival streets.
This mode of ascertaining the worth of property is necessarily uncertain and speculative. It is undoubtedly true
that every person who buys property in a growing city like
St. Louis expects it to rise in value, and that this consideration is more or less an element in every purchase. This
expectation, however, is more particularly applicable to unproductive and unimproved property. It rarely occurs that
valuable ground in the heart of a city, on which costly buildings are erected, is purchased on any other theory than that
it will pay, from the time of its purchase, a fair return on
the investment. Of course the purchaser looks forward to
a gradual rise in the value of the ground which will compensate for the deterioration of the buildings, but the basis
of the purchase, as a general thing, is the present rental
value. He takes the risk of a change of business from the
particular locality, which, as is well known, oftentimes works
a serious injury. There is nothing to show that the property in question was not rented to as good an advantage as
it could be, and, clearly, the net income received from it
demonstrates that it was not sacrificed. Besides, Darby had
been trying to sell it, but was unable to get more for it.
There are plenty of witnesses who say it was sacrificed, but
no one is produced, having the ability to buy, who testifies
he would have given more for it than Lucas did. If, as is
contended, Robert Campbell, a gentleman of large means,
who had the purchase of the property under consideration
when the negotiations with Lucas were concluded, would
have paid a higher price for it, why is he not called to testify to that fact? In the nature of things, in a city like St.
Louis, if this property could have been sold for more money
than Lucas gave for it, direct proof was obtainable to show
it. In the absence of this proof it is a reasonable presumption that the sale cannot be impeached because of inadequate
consideration.
It is insisted, however, that Lucas was precluded from

TIFFANY V. LUCAS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

purchasing at a sum less than $300,000, because he certified
with Britton, in 1868, on the occasion of the negotiation of
the loan of $150,000 by Darby, that the property was worth
that sum. It is undeniable that this certificate was carelessly and loosely signed, because the parties making it had
no good reason for saying the property was worth twice the
money proposed to be lent on it. Britton says he makes a
practice of regarding values with extreme liberality, when
he knows the inquiry is made for the purpose of a loan and
the property offered is abundant security for it. This is all
wrong, and cannot be justified by any of the supposed exigencies of business. Lucas, in vindication of his action, tells
us he was-unaware at the time of the faulty construction of
the building andthe small amount of rents received, and,
besides, that he had heard that some one had offered the
sum named in the certificate for the property, though it
turns out no such offer was made.
These things relieve him from the charge of making a
certificate with intent to procure for Darby a credit to which
he knew him not to be entitled, but they do not furnish a
case of justification, as, manifestly, certificates to character
or value should not be given unless they are known to be
'true. It cannot be doubted, from the evidence, that neither
Lucas nor Britton meant to do anything wrong, and, if so,
we know' of no principle of law which would estop Lucas
from disputing the correctness of the valuation named in
the certificate in order to show his good faith and fair dealing in his transaction with Darby.
It is hardly necessary to say, in concluding this case, that
the sale of real estate by Darby was not out of the usual
course of business within the meaning of the Bankrupt Act.
DECREE -AFFIRMED.

