SALOMONS v.

GRAHAM.

[sup. Ct.

Syllabus.

because he considered the order a military one, and as such
to be obeyed. It is true, by the terms of the contract of
affreightment, he was subject to the orders of the quartermaster, but this contract did not require him to sail out of
port during such tempestuous weather as would necessarily
jeopardize the safety of his boat.
If obedience to an order given udder such circumstances
had been demanded, after proper objection, it would have
been a tortious act on the part of an officer of the government.
In such a case, if relief is to be afforded, it must come
from Congress, for the Court of Claims has no power to entertain a suit based on a consideration of this character.
If, however, the master chose to obey the order without
objection, and in the course of the voyage the steamer commanded by him is lost or injured by a peril of the sea, her
owners can have no just cause of complaint against the government, and must abide the consequences of their stipulation.
In every aspect of the case the judgment of the Court of
Claims should be
AFFIRMED.

SALOMONS V.

GRAHAM.

A, State made a contract with a person whom it employed to work for it, to
pay him so much money for his work; the money to be paid from time
to time as the work went on. The work was done. Payment was made
part in money, and part in State warrants much depreciated when paid
out, and which the contractor was obliged, in order to keep his engagement to the State, to sell at a heavy loss; though in the hands of the
purchasers they were ultimately redeemed. The people of. the State
subsequently ordained by its constitution that the debt of the State
should not be increased so as to exceed $25,000,000. And after this, there
being no' money unappropriated in the treasury, and the debt of the
State then being $25,000,000, the legislature passed an act to pay the
contractor $50,331 to reimburse him the losses which he had sustained
by the State's want of good faith in paying him in money all that it
owed him under its contract. On an application for a mandamus, the

Dec. 1872.]

SALOMOS v. GRAHAM.
Statement of the case.

Supreme Court of the State adjudged that this act created a new debt,
and so increased the debt of the State above $25,000,000, and was void.
Held in this court, that no writ of error lay under the 25th section of the
Judiciary Act.
MOTIO

by Mr. . J. Durant to dismiss a writ of error to

the Supreme Court of Louisiana, taken on assumption that
the case fell within the 25th section of the Judiciary Act,
quoted sup'a, p. 3. The case, as it appeared from sonic recitals and other evidences in the record, was thus:
The State of Louisiana, on the 22d March, 1866, made a
contract with one Nixon, public printer, to pay him in cash,
monthly, certain prices for printing to be done by him. He
did the work. The State, howevei, paid him in cash but
part of what it owed him. The balance was paid in State
warrants, then much depreciated, though finally redeemed
by the State. These warrants Nixon had to sell at large
discounts, in order to comply with his contract to the State.
In December, 1870, the people of Louisiana ordained by
their constitution that the debt of the State should not be
increased so as to exceed $25,000,000.
This constitution being in force, the legislature, in March,
1871-reciting the contract with Nixon above mentioned,
the kind of payments made-a part State warrants, " which
he was compelled to receive, or get nothing at all "-his sale
of them, and his losses: and' reciting that "the good faith of
the State required that it should make good the losses by
him thus incurred"-passed an act, there being no moneys
at the time in the treasury unappropriated, appropriating to
him $50,331, "to reimburse- him for the loss and discount
suffered by him by reason of the premises stated, and of the
failure of the State to pay him in cash, as required by its contract with. him." And the auditor of public accounts, one
Graham, was required to issue his warrant for the amount.
This the auditor refused to do; and Nixon, having sold his
claim to one Salomons, Salomons applied to one of the State
courts of Louisiana for a mandamus. The auditor and the
attorney-general of Louisiana appeared, and showed for cause
that the constitution of Louisiana forbade the act required, for
VOL. XV.

14

SALOMONS V. GRAHAM.[

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

that the said constitution prohibited the increase of the debt
of the State beyond $25,000,000; and that the debt already
exceeded that amount befbre the passage of the act in favor
of Nixon. The Supreme Court of the State where the case
finally came, gave judgment, refusing the mandamus. The
ground was that the State had settled with Nixon; that the
appropriation made by the act of March, 1871, was the creation of a debt, and not the mere recognition of one existing
at the time of the constitutional amendment, and unaffected
by it, and that there having been no moneys in the treasury
when the appropriation was made to answer it, the act increased the debt of the State above $25,000,000, and was
unconstitutional and void. From this judgment of the Supreme Court of Louisiana the relators took this writ of error.
Hr. J. J. Key, against the motion to dismiss, argued that the
contract of the State of March 22d, 1866, with Nixon, having
been in force prior to the declaration of the constitution of
Louisiana, made in December, 1870, and that contract not
having been rightly performed-being in fact a still existing
contract, as the act of March, 1871, showed-the constitution of Louisiana violated the 10th section of the 1st article
of the Constitution of the United States, which declares that
no State shall pass any law impairing the obligation of contracts. The new constitution of Louisiana was such a law.
Ttlie case, he argued, thus came within the 2d clause of the
25th section.
The CHIEF JUSTICE:
No question as to the repugnance of the constitution of
Louisiana to the Constitution of the United States was made
in the Supreme Court of the State, or decided by that court;
nor is it easy to see how such a question could be made. The
main question argued and decided was whether an act of the
legislature increasing the debt of the State when it already
exceeded $25,000,000, was repugnant to the constitution of
the.State. The court held that it was. This decision involved ,no Federal question.
WRIT DISMISSED.

