Dec. 1872.]

HANAUER V.

WOODRUFF.

Statement of the case.

Viewed in any reasonable light, the court is of the opinion
that there is no error in the record.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice BRADLEY, dissenting:
I dissent from the judgment of the court in this case. A
resolution adopted by the common council of an insurgent
city just before its occupation by our armies, for the purpose
of keeping any class of property out of its hands by destroying the.same, is a sheer act of war, and no contract or stipulation for indemnity to persons whose property was thus
destroyed had any validity after the collapse of the Confederacy. The owners of tobacco, cotton, or machinery destroyed on similar occasions are just as much entitled to set
up stipulations for indemnity. The wounded soldier has
just as good a right to claim damages from the Confederate
soldier who wounded him.

HANAUER V. WOODRUFF.
1. Bonds issued by authority of the convention of Arkansas, which attempted to carry that State out of the Union, for the purpose of supporting the war levied by the insurrectionary bodies then controlling
that State against the Federal government, do not constitute a valid
consideration for a promissor note, although bonds of that character
were used as a circulating medium in Arkansas and about Memphis in
the common and ordinary business transactions of the people.
2. The case of Th'loringtonv. Smith (8 Wallace, 1) approved, but distinguished
from the present case.

ON certificate of division in opinion between the judges
of the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of Arkansas;
the case being thus:
Hanauer sued Woodruff in the court below upon a promissory note executed by the latter, at Memphis, Tennessee,
on the 22d of December, 1861, for $3099, payable twelve

HANAUER V. WOODRUFF.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

months after date, if not before, with interest after maturity
at the rate of 8 per cent. per annum. The case was tried in
the District of Arkansas, by the Circuit Court, without the
intervention of a jury, by stipulation of the parties. And
the court found, specifically, that the only consideration of
the note was certain bonds, issued by authority of the convention which attempted to carry the State of Arkansas out
of the Federal Union, by an ordinance of secession; that
these bonds were issued for the purpose of supporting the
war levied by the insurrectionary bodies then controlling
that State against the Federal government, and were styled
"war-bonds" on their face, and that the purpose of their
issue was well known to both the plaintiff and defendant.
The court further found that at the time of the transaction
between the parties, that is, at the time the note was given,
these war-bonds had at Memphis and in Arkansas a value
25 per cent. below their par value; that those received by
the defendant were not used nor intended to be used by him
in direct support of the war, but were received by him to be
used in the ordinary course of his business; and that bonds
of this character were at that time used as a circulating
medium in Arkansas and about Memphis, in the common
and ordinary business transactions of the people.
Upon the facts thus found, the following questions of law
arose, upon which the judges of the Circuit Court were divided in opinion :
1st. Was the consideration of the note void on the ground
of public policy, so that no action could be sustained upon
it in the Federal courts?
2d. Was the consideration of the note illegal under the
principles of public law, the Constitution of the United
States, and the laws of Congress, and the proclamations of
the President relating to the rebellion, which existed and
was pending when the note was made?
3d. If the bonds were a sufficient consideration to sustain
the action, what was the measure of damages?
These three questions were now sent up to this court for
answers.

Dec. 1872.]

HANAUER

V. WOODRUFF.

Argument in support of the note.

.r. A. H. Garland,for the plaintiff, flanauer:
1. While it is true the bonds for which the note in suit

was given were issued to be used in carrying on the war
against the United States, yet as the particular bonds obtained by the defendant of the plaintiff were not used or
intended to be used in support of that war, the contract is
not void, but stands upon a good and valid consideration.
The issuing of the bonds by the State of Arkansas can have
no bearing on the matter now in question, unless both the
parties to the note participated, in making their contract, in
the intention with which the bonds were issued. The contract must grow out of, immediately, or be connected with,
the immoral or illegal act to vitiate it; and if the promise
be entirely disconnected from the illegal consideration or
act, and is founded on a new consideration, it is good; and

this though the party to whom the promise is made is the
contriver and the conductor of the illegal act. This is the
view taken by this court in Armstrong v. Toler,* Kennett v.
Chambers,t and by other courts in numberless cases.
The defendant got the bonds and used them legitimately,
and they were worth to him not much less than the sum
expressed on their face. He did not use them for the war,
nor did he intend to do so. To him they were as money.
lHe should not be heard to say they were not money.t
Recovery was denied in Ranauer v. Doane,ยง because the
notes sued on were given for goods sold in aid of the rebellion, both buyer and seller having knowledge of the use intended to be made of the goods.
2. But the finding by the court, that the bonds were used
as a circulating medium among the people within the Confederate lines at and about Memphis, and had there much
value, brings the case directly within Thorington v. Smith.1j
The doctrine of that case leaves nothing to discuss here.
Indeed, without Thorington v. Smith, upon general principles,
t 14 Howard, 38.
11 'Wheaton, 258.
: Picknrd v. Banices, 13 East, 20; Mason v. Waite, 17 Massachusetts, 563.
118 Id. 1.
12 Wallace, 342.

HANAUER V.

WOODRUFF.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

this court has fully recognized as law all that is asked for
.lanauer, and places that recognition upon the very cases
already cited in this argument.*
3. What is the measure of damages P
This question is almost solved in determining the other.
The note was given for so many dllars; and nothing less
than dollars, as contracted for, will discharge the contract.
The parties made their own contract and uged plain words
to express their meaning.
Mr. Justice FIELD delivered the opinion (ifthe court, as
follows:
The first question presented is embraced within the second,
for if the consideration of the note was illegal under the Constitution of the United States and the laws of Congress, there
can be no inquiry whether it was void for reasons of public
policy. There can be no public policy in this country which
contravenes the law of the land. And that the consideration was illegal and void under the Constitution and laws
of the United States, does not admit of a doubt. If the
Constitution be, as it declares on its face it is, the supreme
law of the land, a contract or undertaking of any kind to
destroy or impair its supremacy,,or to aid or encourage any
attempt to that end, must necessarily he unlawfhl, and can
never be treated in a court sitting under that Constitution
and exercising authority by virtue of its provisions, as a
meritorious consideration for the promise of any one. The
obligations of a traitorous combination, issued expressly to
make war against and overthrow the government of the
United States, can never give validity to. any transaction
which must seek the courts of that government for enforcement.
The issuing of the bonds in question was an act of open
hostility to the United States; it was an act by which the
convention declared its adherence t6 their enemies, and it
gave aid and comifbrt to them. The purpose of their issue
* Thomas v. Oity of lichmond, 12 Wallace, 349.

Dec. 187:2.]

D ANAUER
]
V. WOODRUFF.
Opinion of the court.

being inscribed upon their face, notice of their character
was imparted to every one. Wherever they were carried,
they showed the taint of their origin, and no one could take
them, or give currency to them, or part with value for them,
without knowingly adding to the strength of the insurgents,
and thus in some degree furthering their cause.
An ingeniops argument is presented on the part of the
able and learned counsel of the plaintiff, by which it is
attempted to sustain the validity of the note in suit on the
ground'that it is a contract collateral to that upon which
the bonds were issued, and therefore not tainted by it; and
on the further ground that it is a contract based upon a valid
consideration within the authority of the decision in the case
of Thorington v. Smith.*
Neither ground can be maintained. The contract expressed by the note is indeed collateral to that upon which
the bonds were issued; that is to say, it is not the same, but
a different contract. Yet it is connected with that contract
by the fact that the bonds constitute its consideration; it
therefore gives value and currency to those bonds, and to
that extent advances the purposes for which the bonds were
issued. It thus draws to itself the illegality of the original
transaction.
When a contract is thus connected by its consideration
with an illegal transaction a court of justice will not aid its
enforcement. It is sometimes said that the test whether a
demand connected with an illegal transaction is capable of
being enforced at law, is, whether the plaintiff requires any
aid from the illegal transaction to establish his case. This
test was given in Simpson v. Bloss,t by the court of Common
Pleas, in England. But it is too narrow in its terms and
excludes many cases where the plaintiff might establish his
case independently of the illegal transaction, and yet would
find his demand tainted by that transaction. ie might, in
some instances, establish his case by showing a simple loan
of money, or a simple sale of goods, yet the court would
* 8 Wallace, 1.

t 7 Taunton, 246.

IANAUER

V. WOODRUFF.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

-hold the contract of loan or sale to be invalid if at the time
the money was loaned or the goods were sold he knew they
were to be used for an illegal and criminal transaction, and
the contract was made to further its execution.* Such was
the decision of this court in the recent case of this same
plaintiff against Doane, reported in 12th Wallace. There
goods were sold to the defendant, the vendor knowing at
the time that they were to be used in aid of the rebellion,
and it was held that the sale was, from this knowledge, an
illegal transaction bn the part of the vendor and did not
constitute a valid consideration for the note of the purchaser;
and it was further held that due-bills given by the purchaser
when taken up and paid by third parties with knowledge of
the purpose for which they were issued, were equally invalid
as a consideration for his note in their hands.
But notwithstanding the narrow terms of the test mentioned in the English decision, the present case falls directly
within them. No inquiry can be made into the consideration of the note in suit without disclosing that it consists of
bonds issued by one of the insurgent States to support the
war levied by them against the United States. The plaintiff, therefore, cannot establish his case, his demand being
contested, without aid from that illegal and treasonable
transaction.
The decision in Thoringlon v. Snith,- does not control the
present case. There it appeared that the plaintiff, Thorington, had sold a parcel of land situated in Montgomery, Alabama, to the defendant for $45,000. At that time, Alabama
was in the occupation of the civil and military authorities of
the Confederate States. There was no gold or silver coin,
nor were there any notes of the United States in circulation
in that State. The only currency in ordinary use, in which
the daily business of the people was carried on, were
treasury notes of the Confederate States, which in form and
general appearance resembled bank bills. In these note
โข Cannan v. Bryce, 3 Barnewall & Alderson, 179; Pearce v. Brooks, i
Law Reports, Exchequer, 214.
f- 8 Wallace, 1.

Dec. 1872.]

H ANAUER -b. "WOODRUFF.

Opinion of the court.

$35,000 of the purchase-money of the land were paid, and a
note was given for the balance, payable by its terms in dollars. It was by that term that Confederate notes were designated.
Upon the suppression of the rebellion these notes became
of course valueless. Thorington then filed a bill to enforce
a vendor's lien upon the land sold, claiming the balance of
the stipulated purchase-money in lawful money of the United
States. The defendant set up as a defence that the purchase
of the land was made at Montgomery, Alabama, where the
parties at the time resided; that the only currency then in
vogue there consisted of treasury notes of the Confederate
government; that the contract price for the land, $45,000,
was to be paid in those notes; that $35,000 were thus paid;
that the note in suit given for the balance was to be paid in
the same manner, and that the actual value of the land in
lawful money of the United States was only $3000. The
court below held that as the payment was to be made in
Confederate notes the contract was illegal, and dismissed
the suit, and the case was brought to this court for review.
One of the questions presented, and the most important one
was, whether the contract thus made for the payment of
Confederate notes during the rebellion, between parties residing in the Confederate States, could be enforced in the
courts of the United States.
In examining this question, the court referred to the establishment of the Confederate government in 1861, and to the
power it exercised over the territory of the States confederated in insurrection, observing that it was the actual government of all the territory of the insurgent States, except
those portions protected from its control by the presence of
the armed forces of the United States. It then considered
the character of this government, and classed it in that description of de facto governments, which were aptly termed
governments of paramount force. The distinguishing features of this kind of government, the court said, were, "(1)
that its existence is maintained by active military power
within the territories and against the rightful authority of

HTANAUER V. WOODRUFF.

[Slip. C.

'Opinion of the court.

an established and lawful government; and (2) that while
it exists it must necessarily be obeyed in civil matters by
private citizens, who by acts of obedience rendered in submission to such force, do not become responsible as wrongdoers for those acts, though not warranted by the laws of
the rightful government."
Illustrations of this sort of government were found in the
case of Castine, in Maine, reduced to British possession
during the war of 1812, and in the case of Tampico, in
Mexico, occupied by the troops of the United States during
the war with that country in 1846 and 1847.
As to Castine, that place was captured in September, 1814,
by the British forces, and remained in their possession until
the ratification of the treaty of peace in February, 1815.
"By the conquest and military occupation of Castine," this
court said, by Mr. Justice Story, in United States v. Bice,*
"the enemy acquired that firm possession which enabled
him to exercisd the fullest rights of sovereignty over that
place. The sovereignty of the United States over the territory was, of course, suspended, and the laws of the United
States could no longer be rightfully enforced there, of be
obligatory upon the iihabitants who remained and submitted to the conquerors. By the surrender, the inhabitants passed under a temporary allegiance to the British
government and were bound by such laws, and such only
as it chose to recognize and impose. From the nature of
the case no other laws could be obligatory upon them, for
where there is no protection or allegiance, or sovereignty,
there can be no claim to obedience."
As to Tampico, that place was taken possession of in November, 1846, by the military forces of the United States,
and in December following the entire State of Tamaulipas,
in which Tampico is situated, was reduced to military subjection by our forces, and both Tampico and the State remained in our occupation until the treaty of peace in 1848.
While thus captured and held in subjection other nations
* 4 'Wheaton, 254.

Dec. 1872.]

D

2ANAUER V.

WOODRUFF.

Opinion of the court.

were bound, as this court said, speaking through Chief Jusice Taney, ih Fleming v. Page,* "to regard the country,
while outi possession continued, as the territory of the
United States, and to respect it as such. For by the laws
and usages of nations, conquest is a valid title while the
victor maintains the exclusive possession of the conquered
country. The citizens of no other nation, therefore, had a
right to enter it without the permission of the American
authorities, nor to hold intercourse with its inhabitants, nor
to trade with them. As regarded all other nations, it was a
part of the United States, and belonged to them as exclusively as the territory included in our established boundaries."
After referring to these cases of Castine and Tampico the
court said that it was among the governments, of which
these are examples, that the Confederate government established for the insurgent States must be classed, though it
differed from them in the circumstance that its authority did
not originate in lawful acts of regular war; that it was not,
however, on that account less actual or less supreme; that
to the extent of its actual supremacy, however gained, in
all matters of government within its military lines, the power
of the insurgent government could not be questioned; that
though that supremacy did not justify acts of hostility to the
United States, it made obedience to its authority in civil
and in local matters not only a necessity, but a duty; and
that without such obedience civil order was impossible. It
was by this government, said the court, exercising its power
through an immense territory, that the Confederate notes
were issued early in the war; that they became in a short
time almost exclusively the currency of the insurgent States;
that while the war lasted they were used as money in nearly
all the business transactions of many millions of people;
and that they must, therefore, be regarded as a currency imposed on the community by irresistibleforce.
From these considerations the court held that it followed
* 9 Howard, 614.

448

HANAUER V. WOODRUFF.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

"as a necessary consequence from this actual supremacy of
the insurgent government as a belligerent within the territory where it circulated, and from the necessity of civil
obedience on the part of all who remained in-it, that this currency must be considered in courts of law in the same light
as if it had been issued by a foreign government temporarily occupying a part of the territory of the United States.
Contracts stipulating for payments in this currency cannot
be regarded for that reason only as made in aid of the foreign
invasion in the one case or of the domestic insurrection in
the other. They have no necessary relation to the hostile
government, whether invading or insurgent. They are
transactions in the ordinary course of civil society, and
though they may indirectly and remotely promote the ends
of the unlawful government, are without blame, except
when proved to 'have been entered into with actual intent
to further invasion or insurrection." And so the court held
that such contracts could be enforced in the courts of the
United States, after the restoration of peace, to the extent
of their just obligation.
There is nothing in the case at bar which has any analogy
to the case cited. In the latter case the transaction was in
a currency imposed by irresistible force upon the community, in which currency the commonest transactions in the
daily life of millions of people, even in the minutest particulars, were carried on, and without the use of which
there would have been no medium of exchange among
them. The simplest purchase in the market of daily food
would, without its use, have been attended with inconveniences which it is difficult to estimate. It would have been
a cruel and oppressive judgment, if all the transactions of
the many millions of people, composing the inhabitants of
the insurrectionary States, for the several years of the war,
had been held tainted with illegality, because of the use of
this forced currency, when those transactions were not made
with any reference to the insurrectionary government.
In the case at bar the war-bonds issued by the secession
ordinance of Arkansas, though used as a circulating medium

Dec. 1872..]

D .ANAUERV.

-WOODRUFF.

Opinion of Miller, J.

in that State and about Memphis, did not constitute any
forced currency which the people in that State and city were
obliged to use. They were only a circulating medium in
the sense that any negotiable money instruments, in the
payment of which the community has confidence, constitute a circulating medium. The difference between the two
cases is the difference between submitting to a force which
could not be controlled, and voluntarily aiding to create that

force.*
The first two questions certified to us must, therefore, be
answered in the affirmative. The third question does not
show any matter upon which the judges of the Circuit
Court were divided in opinion, but, in any event, it requires
no answer.

Mr. Justice MILLER:
I assented with much reluctance to the opinion in the
case of Tiorington v. Smith.
But I did assent to it on the ground that, while it was unsupported by and in some degree at variance with the general doctrine of the turpitude of consideration as affecting
the validity of contracts, it was neces.sary to be established
as a principle to prevent the grossest injustice in reference
to transactions of millions of people for several years in duration.
I think the present case comes within that principle.
But I am content that the case of Thoringlon v. Smith shall
be so iimited, modified, and explained as to make it inapplicable to any further class of cases at all probable in the
history of this country.
The necessity in which it was founded has passed or is
rapidly passing away, and I acquiesce.
ic See Head v. Talley, decided by the Chief Justice in the Circuit Court in
Virginia, 3 American Law Times, 155.

VOL. XV.

