TOMLINSON V. JESSUP.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

TOIILINSON V. JESSUP.
1. The Northeastern Railroad Company was incorporated by the legislature
of the State of South Carolina in 1851 for fifty years, and the usual
powers of railroad companies were granted to it. At that time a general law of the State was in existence, passed in 1841, which enacted
that the charter of every corporation subsequently granted, and any renewal, amendment, or modification thereof, should be subject to amend
ment, alteration, or repeal by legislative authority, unless the act granting
the charter or the renewal, amendment, or modification, in express terms
excepted it from the operation of that law. In 1855 the legislature passed
an amendment to the charter of the company, providing that its stock,
and the real estate it then owned, or might thereafter acquire, connected
with or subservient to the works authorized by its charter, should be
exempt from taxation during the continuance of the charter. This act
contained no clause excepting the amendment from the provisions of the
general law of 1841. In 1868 the constitution of the State was adopted,
which requires that the property of corporations then existing or thereafter created, shall be subject to taxation, except in certain cases, not
affecting this case. The subsequent legislation of this State carried out
this requirement and provided for the taxation of the property of railroad companies, and under it the property of the Northeastern Railroad
Company was taxed; Held, that the taxation waslegal and constitutional;
that the power reserved to the State by the law of 1841 authorized any
change in the contract created by the charter between the corporators
and the State, as it originally existed, or as subsequently modified, or
its entire revocation.
2. The object of the reservation was to prevent a grant of corporate rights
and privileges in a form which would preclude legislative interference
with their exercise, if the public interests should at any time require
such interference, and to preserve to the State control over its contract
with the corporators, which would otherwise be irrepealable and protected from any measures affecting its obligation.
8. Immunity from taxation, constituting a part of the contract between the
government and the corporators or stockholders, was, by the reservation
of power contained in the law of 1841, subject to be revoked equally with
any other provision of the charter, whenever the legislature might deem
it expedient for the public interest that the revocation should be made.
The reservation affected the entire relation between the State and th
corporation, and placed under legislative control all rights, privileges,
and immunities derived by its charter directly from the State.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of South
Carolina; the case being this:
Jessup, of New York, and owner of a number of shares

Dec. 1872.]

TOMLINSON V. JESSUP.
Statement of the case.

in the N~ortheastern Railroad Company, a corporation created in 1851 by the State of South Carolina, filed a bill in
the court below against Tomlinson and others, officers of
the State of South Carolina, to enjoin them from levying a
tax on the property of the road.
The question was whether the property was liable to taxation under the legislation of the State.
The act incorporating the company contained a grant of
the usual powers of railroad companies, and the charter was
for the term of fifty years. At the time of its passage the
41st section of an act of the General Assembly, passed in
December, 1841, was in force, as follows:
"It shall become part of the charter of every corporation,
which shall, at the present, or any succeeding session of the
General Assembly, receive a grant of a charter, or any renewal,
amendment, or modification thereof (unless the act granting
such charter, renewal, amendment, or modification shall, in express terms, except it), that every charter or incorporation
granted, renewed, or modified as aforesaid, shall at all times
remain subject to amendment, alteration, or repeal, by the legislative authority."*
The act of incorporation did not except the charter of the
company from the operation of this section. The company
received extensions of their powers and privileges at various
times subsequently, but in no case did the amendatory acts
except the company from the operation of that section.t
By an act, passed December 19th, 1855, entitled "1An Act
to amend the charter of the Northeastern Railroad Company, and for other purposes," it was enacted as follows:
"That the stock of the said company, and the real estate that
it now owns or may hereafter acquire, which is connected with
or subservient to the works authorized in the charter of the said
company, shall be, and the same is hereby exempted from all
taxation during the continuance of the present charter of the
said company."I
- Stat. at Large, vol. 11, p. 168.
t Id., vol. 12, pp. 176, 208-9 and 370.

1lb., p. 407.

TOMLINSON V. JESSUP.

[Sup. Or.

Statement of the case.

This latter act did not except in terms the charter of the
company from the provisions of the 41st section -of the act
of 1841, above recited.
The present constitution of South Carolina was adopted
in 1868, and article 9, section 1, is as follows:
"The General Assembly shall provide, by law, for a uniform
and equal rate of assessment and taxation, and shall prescribe
such regulations as shall secure a just valuation for taxation of
all property, real, personal, and possessory, except mines and
mining claims, the proceeds of which alone sball be taxed; and
also exempting such property as may be exempted by law for
municipal, educational, literary, scientific, religious, or charitable purposes."
Article 12, section 2, is as follows:
"The property of corporations now existing or hereafter created, shall be subject to taxation, except in cases otherwise provided for in this constitution."
On the 15th of September, 1868, the General Assembly
passed an act entitled "An Act providing for the assessment
and taxation of property," the first section of which declares
"That all real and personal property in this State, and personal property of residents of the State, which may be kept or
used temporarily out of this State, with the intention of bringing the same into the State, or which has been sent out of the
State for sale and not yet sold; all moneys, credits, investments,
in bonds, stocks, joint stock companies or otherwise, of parties
resident in this State, shall be subject to taxation."*
Subsequent acts provided specially for the taxation of the
property of railroad companies, under which the officers of
the State were proceeding to assess and tax the property of
the Northeastern Railroad Company, when the present bill
was filed.
The court below granted an injunction; at first temporary, and then final; and from the final injunction the officers of the State appealed.
* Stat. at Large, vol. 14, p. 27.

Dec. 1872.]

TOMILINSON V. JESSUP.
Opinion of the court.

Messrs. D. T. Corbin and D.
lants; T. G. Barker, contra.

. Chamberlain,for the appel-

Mr. Justice FIELD delivered the opinion of the court.
The constitution of South Carolina, adopted in 1868, declares that the property of corporations then existing or
thereafter created, shall be subject to taxation, except in
certain cases, not material to the present inquiry. The subsequent legislation of the State carried out this requirement
and provided for the taxation of the property of railroad
companies; and the question presented is, whether the act
of December, 1855, to amend the charter of the Northeastern
Railroad Company, exempted the property of that company
from such taxation. The company was incorporated in 1851,
and at that time a general law of the State was in existence,
passed in 1841, which enacted that the charter of every corporation subsequently granted, and any renewal, amendment, or modification thereof, should be subject to amendment, alteration, or repeal by legislative authority, unless
the act granting the charter or the renewal, amendment, or
modification, in express terms excepted it from the operation of that law. The provisions of that law, therefore, constituted the condition upon which every charter of a corporation subsequently granted was held, and upon which every
amendment or modification was made. They were as operative and as much a part of the charter and amendment, as
if incorporated into them.
The act amending the charter of the Northeastern Railroad Company, passed in December, 1855, provided that the
stock of the company, and the real estate it then owned, or
might thereafter acquire, connected with or subservient to
the works authorized by its charter, should be exempted
from taxation during the continuance of the charter. This
act contained no clause excepting.the amendment from the
provisions of the general law of 1841. It was, therefore, itself
subject to repeal by force of that law.
It is true that the charter of the company when accepted
by the corporators constituted a contract between them and

ToMLiNsON V. JESSUP.

[Sup. t

Opinion of the court.

the State, and that the amendment, when accepted, formed
a part of the contract from that date and was of the same
obligatory character. And it may be equally true, as stated
by counsel, *thatthe exemption from taxation added greatly
to the value of the stock of the company, and induced the
plaintiff to purchase the shares held by him. But these considerations cannot be allowed any weight in determining the
validity of the subsequent taxation. The power reserved
to the State by the law of 1841 authorized any change in
the contract as it originally existed, or as subsequently modified, or its entire revocation. The original corporators, or
subsequent stockholders, took their interests with knowledge
of the existence of this power, and of the possibility of its
exercise at any time in the discretion of the legislature.
The object of the reservation, and of similar reservations in
other charters, is to prevent a grant of corporate rights and
privileges in a form which will preclude legislative interference with their exercise if the public interest should at any
time require such interference. It is a provision intended
to preserve to the State control over its contract with the
corporators, which without that provision would be irrepealable and protected from any measures affecting its obligation.
There is no subject over which it is of greater moment for
the State to preserve its power than that of taxation. It has
nevertheless been held by this court, not, however, without
occasional earnest dissent from a minority, that the power
of taxation over particular parcels of property, or over property of particular persons or corporations, may be surrendered by one legislative body, so as to bind its successors
and the State. It was so adjudged at an early day in New
Jersey v. Wilson;* the adjudication was affirmed in Jefferson
Bank v. Slkelly,t and has been repeated in several cases within
the past few years, and notably so in the cases of The .Home
of the Friendless v. Rouse, and Wilmington Railroadv. Reed.ยง
In these cases, and in others of a similar character, the exemption is upheld as being made upon considerations mov* 7 Cranch, 164.

j- 1 Black, 436.

1 8 Wallace, 430.

13 Id. 264.

Dec. 1872.]

TOMXLINSON V. JESSUP.
Opinion of the court.

ing to the State which give to the transaction the character
of a contract. It is thus that it is brought within the protection of the Federal Constitution. In the case of a corporation the exemption, if originally made in the act of incorporation, is supported upon the consideration of the duties
and liabilities which the corporators assume by accepting
the charter. When made, as in the present case, by an
amendment of the charter, it is supported upon the consideration of the greater efficiency with which the corporation
will thus be enabled to discharge the duties originally assumed by the corporators to the public, or of the greater
facility with which it will support its liabilities and carry
out the purposes of its creation. Immunity from taxation,
constituting in these cases a part of the contract with the
government, is, by the reservation of power such as is contained in the law of 1841, subject to be revoked equally with
any other provision of the charter whenever the legislature
may deem it expedient for the public interests that the revocation shall be made. The reservation affects the entire relation between the State and the corporation, and places'
under legislative control all rights, privileges, and immunities derived by its charter directly from the State. Rights
acquired by third parties, and which have becQme vested
under the charter, in the legitimate exercise of its powers,
stand upon a different footing; but of such rights it is unnecessary to speak here. The State only asserts in the present case the power under the reservation to modify its own
contract with the corporators; it does not contend for a
power to revoke the contracts of the corporation with other
parties, or to impair any vested rights thereby acquired.
DECREE REVERSED,

and the cause remanded with direc-

tions to

DIsmIss

THE SUIT.
I

