Dec. 1872.]

RIGGIN V. MAGWIRE.
Statement of the case.

The whole subject has been recently examined in this
court in fDows v. The City of Chicago.* The head note of
the case is in these words: "A suit in equity will not lie to
restrain the collection of a tax on the sole-ground that the
tax is illegal. There must exist in addition, special circumstances bringing the case under some recognized head of
equity jurisdiction, such as that the enforcement of the tax
would lead to a multiplicity of suits or produce irreparable
injury, or where the property is real estate, throw a cloud
upon the title of the complainant." The sole ground of the
present bill is the illegality of the tax.
We are all of the opinion that the bill states no cause of
action, and that it was properly dismissed.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

RIGGIN

V.

MAGWIRE.

1. The fifth section of the Bankrupt Act of 1841 enacts that-"1All creditors whose debts are not due and payable until a future day, all
annuitants, holders of bottomry and respondentia bonds, holders of policies of
insurance, sureties, iudorsers, bail, or other persons having uncertain or contingent demands against such bankrupt, shall be permitted to come in and prove
such debts and claims under the act, and shall have a right when these debts or
claims become absolute, to have the same allowed them; and such annuitants
and holders of debts payable in future may have the present value thereof
ascertained under the direction of such court, and allowed them accordingly, as
debts in prmni."

Under this section, so long as it remains wholly uncertain whether a contract or engagement will ever give rise to an actual duty or liability;
and there is no means of removing the uncertainty by calculation, such
contract or engagement is not provable under the act.
2. A claim for a breach of covenant that the grantor has an indefeasible estate
in fee in land sold-the claim arising from the right of his wife, yet
living, to be endowed of the estate-is of this character during the life
of the husband.

to the Supreme Court of the State of Missouri.
Magwire sued Rggin in the Circuit Court of St. Louis
County, Missouri, to recover damages for a breach of coveERROR

* 11 Wallace, 109.

RIGGIN V. MAGWIRE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

naut. The defendant pleaded a discharge under the Bankrupt Act of 1841, obtained in June, 1843, but his plea was
disallowed, both by the lower court and by the Supreme
Court of Missouri on appeal. He, therefore, brought the
case here by writ of error.
The case was this:
On the 2d of December, 1839, Riggin conveyed a certain
tract of land near St. Louis to one Ellis, in fee. The operative words of the conveyance were "grant, bargain, sell,"
&c., which words in Missouri create a covenant that the
grantor has an indefeasible estate in fee.* The fact was
that, prior to the execution of this deed, the property had
belonged to one Martin Thomas, whose wife had never relinquished her right to dower in it. But Thomas was then
living, and did not die until 1848, several years after the
alleged discharge of Iiggin as a bankrupt. The property
afterwards, by regular devolution of title, came into possession of Magwire, who sold it in lots to various persons. In
1868 these persons were sued by Mrs. Thomas, widow of
Martin Thomas, for the value of her dower, and were obliged
to pay it, and the plaintiff was obliged to refund them the
amount. He, therefore, brought this suit against Riggin
for damages under his implied covenant of indefeasible
seizin.
The question was, whether Riggin was discharged from
this demand by his decree of discharge in bankruptcy in
1843? Whether he was or not depended on the quetion
whether the claim could have been proved in that proceeding. The 5th section of the Bankrupt Act of 1841t declares
as follows:
"All creditors whose debts are not due and payable until a
future day, all annuitants, holders of bottomry and respondentia
bonds, holders of policies of insurance, sureties, indorser4, bail,
or other persons having uncertain or contingent demands against
such bankrupt, shall be permitted to come in and prove such
* Revised Statutes of 1855, c. 32,
512.
t 5 Stat. at Large, 445.

14; Magwire v. liggin, 44 Missouri,

:Dec. 1872.]

RIGGIN V. MAGWIRE.
Opinion of the court.

debts and claims under the act, and shall have a right, when
these debts or claims become absolute, to have the same allowed
them; and such annuitants and holders of debts payable in
future may have the present value thereof ascertained under the
direction of such court, and allowed them accordingly, as debts
in prwesenti."
MAessrs. Glover and Shepley, for the plaintiff in error:
The plain words of the fifth section include all "uncertain and contingent demands," i. e., "uncertain and contingent demands" of every kind and character. The claim for
the wife's dower was undoubtedly a valid claim, and a claim
always subsisting; and because it was an uncertain and contingent claim it was provable under this fifth section.
The question now before the court was considered in effect
by the Supreme Court of New York in Jemison v. Blowers,*
where a discharge was pleaded against a suit brought upon
the covenant for quiet enjoyment, and after a careful examination of the act of 1841 the court came to the conclusion
that the discharge was a bar to the action. Shelton v. Pease,
in the Supreme Court of Missouri,t is to a similar effect.
ilfessrs. Blair and Dick, contra.
M11r. Justice BRADLEY delivered the opinion of the court.
It is argued that under the right given by the fifth section
of the Bankrupt Act of 1841 to prove "uncertain and contingent demands," the claim in this case could have been proven
under the act. But the better opinion is, that as long as it
remained wholly uncertain whether a contract or engagement would ever.give rise to an actual duty or liability, and
there was no means of removing the uncertainty by calculation, such contract or engagement was not provable under
.the act of 1841. See 1 Smith's Leading Casesj notes to
31ills v. .Auriol, by Hare. In 1843 Martin Thomas was still
living, and there was no certainty that his wife would ever sur*

5 Barbour, 686.

j Page 1137, 6th American edition.

f 10 Missouri, 475.

FIRoW v. DE LA VEGA.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

vive him. It was uncertain whether there would ever be any
claim or demand. On what principle, then, could the covenant have been liquidated or reduced to present or probable
value? If an action at law had been brought on the covenant at that time nominal damages at most, if any damages
at all, coald have been recovered. It did not come within
the category of annuities and debts payable in future, which
are absolute existing claims. If it had come within that
category, the value of the wife's probability of survivorship
after the death of her husband might have been calculated
on the principles of life annuities. Had a proposition for a
compromise of her right been made between her and the
owner of the land, such a mode of estimation would have
been very proper. But, without authority from the statute,
the assignee would not have been justified in receiving such
an estimate and making a dividend on it.
It is unnecessary to review the authorities pro and con on
the subject. They are quite numerous, and are mostly cited
in the note of Mr. Hare, above referred to. The case is so
clear that we have hardly entertained a doubt about it.
JUDGMENT AFFIRMED.

Fnow v. DE LA VEGA.
1. A'final decree on the merits cannot be made separately against one of
several defendants upon a joint charge against all, where the case is still
pending as to the others.
2. If one of several defendants to a bill making a joint charge of conspiracy
and fraud, make default, his default and a formal decree pro confesso
may be entered, but no final decree on the merits until the case is disposed of with regard to the other defendants. The defaulting defendant
is simply out of court and can take no farther part in the cause.
3. If the bill in such case be dismissed on the merits, it will be dismissed as
to the defendant in default, as well as the others.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Western District
of Texas; the case being thus:
De La Vega filed a bill in the court below against Frow

