Dec. 1872.]

CAMMAOK v. LEWIS.
Statement of the case.

CAMMACK v. LEWIS.
A. owing B. $70, by B.'s advice takes out a policy of life insurance in $3000
for seven years; he, B., agreeing to pay the premiums during the term.
A. dies intestate seven months after the policy is issued, leaving r
widow and children. B., the creditor, produces A.'s note to him for
$8000, dated on the same day with the policy, but given confessedly
without consideration, and also an assignment of the policy to him.
There is also found among A.'s, the debtor's, papers one signed by
B., the creditor (but not by A.), dated three months after the policy
had issued and been assigned, by which B., the creditor, agrees that in
case of A 's, his debtor's, death and the payment to him, B., by the insurers, of the full amount of the policy, he will pay to the IIwife of A.
(the debtor), his heirs and assigns," one-third of the amount so received.
B., the creditor, having received from the insured the, whole $80u0,
pays the wife, who has not yet taken letters of administration on her
husband's estate, a third, less some small and admitted deductions;
which third--ignorant of the full extent of her rights, acting hastily
and without consideration, and largely influenced by the advice of one
of her husband's friends, himself ignorant of many facts of the caseshe receives as for her proportion of the sum paid under the policy. She
afterwards takes out administration on her husband's estate; and in her
capacity of administratrix sues for the remainder of the $83000. Held1st. That, so far as B. was concerned, the policy being one of $3000 to
secure $70 was a sheer wagering policy; without any claim to be considered as one meant to secure the debt.
2d. That there being nothing beyond the execution of the note for $8000
to show that A. was a participant in any fraud on the insurers, but on
the contrary it rather appearing that he looked upon B. as a friend to
whom he was willing to trust the policy; held further, and as a consequence, that B. was bound to account to A.'s estate for the whole sum,
less any deductions for premiums or other just offset; and the assignment of the policy was valid only to that extent.
3d. That the third, which the widow received, having been received by
her when ignorant of the full extent of her rights, and received hastily,
without consideration, and when influenced by the advice of a friend of
her husband, while ignorant of many facts of the case, did not conclude
her. Independently of this, that if she had a right as administratrix to
recover the $3000, the receipt by her of $1000 before she took out administration could not defeat the right.
APPEAL from the Supreme Court for the District of Columbia; the case being thus:
One John E. Lewis, of Washington, D. C., being in bad
health and owing by note $70, which he was not then able to

CAMMACK v. LEwis.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

pay, to a certain C. Cammack, Jr., tailor, for clothing, procured June 19th, 1868, at Cammack's suggestion, an insurance on his life, in the New Jersey Mutual Life Insurance
Company, which had an agency in Washington, for $3000.
The policy, No. 2885, was for seven years. Cammack paid
the premium for the first year; and immediately after the
policy was made out, Lewis gave to Cammack a note for
$3000; there having been no consideration for the same; and
assigned the policy to him. On the 9ti of January following-that is to say, seven months after the issuing of the
policy--Lewis died, leaving a widow and two children; and
Cammack having paid, of course, but the first year's premiui, a sum of $25. After Lewis's death there was found
among his'papers a document, in Cammack's handwriting,
thus
"WASHINGTON, D. C., September 15, 1868.

"This agreement witnesseth that I, the undersigned, for
value received, do bind myself, and heirs, or legal representatives, to pay unto Maggie Lewis, wife of John E. Lewis, his
heirs and assigns, the sum of one thousand dollars, in event of
the said John E. Lewis's death; the said amount being first
realized by me from an insurance on his (the said Lewis's) life,
duly assigned to me, and held by me, otherwise this agreement
to be held null and void. Number of the policy 2885, in the
New Jersey Mutual Life Insurance Company.
"C . CAMMACK,

Jr.."

Among Lewis's particular friends was a Mr. W. E. Chandlee, of Washington, whom he was in the habit of consulting
on business matters. About a week before his death,
Lewis showed to him the draft of a will of which he desired
Chandlee to be executor. And with a view of enabling
Chandlee to properly administer things, he dictated to him
a list of all the debts which he, as he said, expected would
be brought in against his estate, and which he desired
Ohandlee as his execut6r to pay. Among them was the
$70, due by the note to Cammack for clothing, and "$25 on
account of life insurance." Chandlee knew what this last
item was for, without explanation; for Lewis had consulted
him previously to his life's being insured, and told him that

Dec. 1872.]

CAMMACK V. LEwis.
Statement of the case.

it was insured very soon after the policy issued. "His
statement to me," said Chandlee, in giving an account of
the matter, "was that his life was insured by Mr. Cammack,
in the New Jersey Mutual Life Insurance Company, for the
sum of $3000, and that at any time that he was able to pay
to the said Cammack the amount of premiums that the said
Cammack should have paid on account of the policy, with
interest on the same, and the amount he owed Cammack
for clothing, that Cammack would restore the policy to him."
Cammack was not present at any part of this account,
and when it was told to him he denied the correctness of
Lewis's understanding of the matter.
Lewis did not live to sign his will, and so Chandlee did
not become his executor in form. Still, "feeling," as he
said, "disposed to render the same assistance to his widow
as if the will had been signed, and Lewis having put into
his possession for safe-keeping his private papers, among
which was the memorandum set out above and signed by
Cammack," he went and saw Cammack, who had already
made application to the insurance company for the amount
of the insurance. Chandlee's account of the whole transaction was thus :
"Cammack told me that it might save time and trouble to
have a written requisition from Mrs. Lewis, upon the company,
to pay the money over to him (Cammack), as they might consider it their duty, otherwise, to pay it over to her, in which
case it would occasion delay; but he didn't know that it would
be necessary. I remarked to him that I didn't think it would
make any difference as far as his claim was concerned, whether
the money was paid to him directly, or to Mrs. Lewis; that I
felt sure she would settle the matter, as called for in the agreement, and I would take the responsibility that she would do so.
I then saw TiArs. Lewis and asked her if she intended to settle
the matter of insurance in which Cammack was interested, according to the agreement in my possession. She expressed her
willingness that it should be settled on that basis, just as Mr.
Lewis had provided that it should be. Mr. Cammack then
wrote a requisition for Mrs. Lewis to sign, gave it to me, saying,
'Take this to Mrs. Lewis, and see if she will sign it. If she

646

[Sup. Ct.

CAMIACK v. LEWIS.
Statement of the case.

objects, and the company will not pay the money to me, I will
let them pay it to her, and trust to her for a settlement.' I
took the requisition to Mrs. Lewis, told her what it was for, and
she signed it. It was thus:
"WAsnmrTO CiTy, D. C., January 20th, 1869.
"To

THE NEW JERSEY MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE

CO.

The claim of 0. Cammack, Jr., of said city, secured by
assignment of policy No. 2885, in your company, on the life of my late
husband, John E. Lewis, is a just and legal claim, and it is my desire and
direction that your company pay to said Cammack the proceeds thereof.
"Witness my hand and seal on the aforementioned date.
"MRS. J. E. LEwIs." [SEAL.]
" Witness:
", GENTLEMEN:

1 W. E. CHANDLEE,
"JAMES GRIFFITH."

"On this request Cammack made an affidavit thus:
"DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA,
WASHINGTON CITY, 83

"C. Cammack, Jr., of city aforesaid, being duly sworn, saith that he was

acquainted with John Edward Lewis, deceased, during his lifetime; that
he was the person insured under policy No. 2885, in the New Jersey Life
Insurance Company, which said policy was assigned to the deponent; that
the full and true sum of three thousand dollars was and is now due to me
from said John Edward Lewis or his estate; and that no part of the said
sum has been paid this deponent by said Lewis or any one on his behalf.
"C0. CAMMACK, JR.
" Sworn to and subscribed before me this 23d January, 1869.
"1J. H.

[SEAL.]

cCUTCHEIN,
"Notary Public."

M

On this request and affidavit Cammack got the $3000 from
the insurance company, and sent to Mrs. Lewis his check
for $950, with a memorandum in one corner. The whole
was thus:
No. 459.

WASHINGTOw,

D. C., February 5, 1869.

NATIONAL METROPOLITAN

Mrs. John E. Lewis ..........
Pay to ........
nine hundred and fifty dollars.

BANK,

or Order,

C. CAMMACK,
$950.00.
In fell for her proportion of policy

No. 288, in the New Jersey
Mutual Life Insurance Co.

JR.

Dec. 1872.]

CAMMACK v. LEWIS.
Opinion of the court.

The check, of course, was in professed discharge of the
paper dated September 15th, 1868, supra, p. 644; the sum
sent being one-third of the $3000, less a deduction of $25
for the premium paid for insurance, and for another small
account which Cammack had against Lewis.
Mrs. Lewis went with Mr. Ohandlee to the bank, where
under his eye she indorsed the check and drew the money;
$950.
At a subsequent date, having taken out letters of administration on her husband's estate, in which as already mentioned there were besides herself two children to participate,
she filed a bill to recover the remainder of the $3000.
Cammack set up, by way of defence, that the policy was
taken out under an agreement between Lewis and himself
that he should pay the premiums for the seven years the
policy was to run, and in consideration of those payments,
and what Lewis owed him, he should, in the event of Lewis's
death during the life of the policy, receive two-thirds of the
amount of the policy, and pay over the other third to Lewis's
wife or his heirs; and in support of this he relied on the
instrument signed by himself, dated September 15th, 1868,
and, as already stated, found among Lewis's papers; and
relied on the further fact of that sum (with a small and just
deduction) having been received by Mrs. Lewis, on the
policy. But the defence was not sustained; and the court
below, holding that Cammack held the policy under the
assignment as a mere security for what Lewis owed him,
decreed that he should pay over the balance after deducting
that small sum. From that decree Cammack appealed.
Mr. T. T. Crittenden, for the appellant; Messrs. A. Xc Callur and T. J. Durant,contra.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
If the transaction as set up by Cammack be true, then, so
far as he was concerned, it was a sheer wagering policy, and
probably a fraud on the insurance company. To procure a
policy for $3000 to cover a debt of $70 is of itself a mere

CAMMACK V.

LEWIS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

wager. The disproportion between the real interest of the
creditor and the amount to be received by him deprives it
of all pretence to be a bondfide effort to secure the debt, and
the strength of this proposition is not diminished by the
fact that Cammack was only to get $2000 out of the $3000;
nor is it weakened by the fact that the policy was taken out
in the name of Lewis and assigned by him to Cammack.
This view of the subject receives confirmation from the note
executed by Lewis to Cammack for the precise amount of
the risk in the policy, which, if Cammack's account be true,
was without consideration, and could only have been intended for some purpose of deception; probably to impose
on the insurance company.
Under these circumstances, we think that Cammack could,
in equity and good conscience, only hold the policy as security for what Lewis owed him when it was assigned, and
such advances as he might afterwards make on account of
it, and that the assignment of the policy to him was only
valid to that extent.
Whether Lewis was a participant in the fraud, does not
fully appear. Such conversations of his as are proved tend
to show that he looked upon Cammack as a friend, to whom
he was willing to trust the policy assigned, and that he never
supposed more would be claimed by Cammack than what
he owed him. It is also probable that he believed he would
survive the life of the policy, and with the single exception
of the note for $3000, given by him without consideration,
there is nothing proved against him inconsistent with that
view of the matter, and with his fair dealing. At all events,
we do not see such evidence on his part of a corrupt transaction, as to forbid the court from doing justice between his
administratrix and Cammack, after the amount secured by
the policy has been paid by the company to the latter.
The receipt of the one-third of the insurance money by
the complainant does not, we think, under all the circumstances of the case, conclude her as a settlement of the
matter in dispute. It is obvious that she was ignorant of
the full extent of her rights; that she acted hastily and

Dec. 1872.]

RAILROAD COMPANY V. HANNING.

649

Syllabus.

without due consideration, and was largely influenced by
the advice of Mr. Chandlee, who had been her husband's
friend and adviser, and who was prompted to do what he
did by Cammack, while in ignorance of many of the facts
of the case.
Besides, the bill in this case, as appears on its face, is
brought by her as administratrix, and the receipt by her of
the one-third paid on the policy was before any administrator
had been appointed. If she has a right to recover all the
$3000 as administratrix, it could not be defeated by her receipt of $1000, paid to her in her own right before any administration had been taken out on Lewis's estate.
On the whole, we are of opinion that the decree of the
Supreme Court should be affirmed, and it is
SO ORDERED.

RAILROAD COMPANY V. HANNING.
1. This court cannot decide that a charge is wrong which submits it to the
jury to say whether a wharf was a public place upon which all persons
were accustomed to come and go at pleasure, and were by law permitted
so to do, when the record does not contain the evidence upon which the
question.arose. The court cannot assume that the charge was erroneous.
2. The general rule is that when an injury has been sustained by the negligent manner in which a wharf or other work is constructed or protected,
the principal is liable for the acts and negligence of the agent in the
course of the employment, although he did not authorize or know of
the acts complained of. When the actor ceases to be a servant or agent
and is, himself, the master, he alone is responsible.
3. When a contractor agrees with a railroad company to furnish the materials and labor for building a wharf, to put in posts, piles, &c., as the
company should require, making an old wharf as good as new, and a
new one in the most workmanlike manner; to submit to the supervisor
and direction of the company's engineer, and to do the work to his satisfaction: held, that the company had the general and special control of
the.work, and that the contractor was their agent; and that the company was responsible for an injury occurring through the negligence of
the contractor or of those in his employment.
4. An act of the General Assembly of the State of Louisiana, referring to a
certain railroad corporation, enacted that the said corporation should

