MILLER V. THE STATE..

[Sup. Or.

Statement of the case.

MILLER

v. THE STATE.

A constitution of New York, made in 1826, ordains that "corporations may
be formed under general laws, but shall not be created by special act
except in certain cases;" and also "that all general laws and special
acts, passed pursuant to this section, may be altered from time to time
or repealed." And a statute of New York, passed A.D. 1828, enacts
that "the charter of every corporation that shall be thereafter granted
by the legislature shall be subject to alteration, suspension, and repeal,
in the discretion of the legislature."
In this state of things, a general railroad law was passed in 1850, authorizing the formation of railroad corporations with thirteen directors. The
formation of a company under this general law being subsequently contemplated, with a capital of $800,000, to build a road fifty miles long,
the legislature authorized the city of Rochester to subscribe $8300,000 to
it; and enacted that if the company accepted the subscription, the
city should appoint one director for every $75,000 subscribed by it,
'that is to say, should appoint four directors out of the thirteen contemplated; the other stockholders, of course, appointing the remaining nine.
The company did accept the subscription, and the stockholders other
than the city subscribed $677,500; but paid up only $255,000. Then
the enterprise for all but eighteen miles of the road was abandoned.
The city had paid its $300,000 subscribed. In 1867 the legklature
passed another act giving the city power to appoint one director for
every $42,855.57 of stock owned by the city; in other words establishing the same ratio that existed among the subscribers for the stock at
the time the original subscription was made. The effect was to give the
city seven directors and to leave the other stockholders but six. These
last stockholders, regarding the act of 1851 as making a contract that
they should have nine directors and the city but four, and that the act
of 1867 violated that contract, elected their old nine. Held, on a quo
warranto,that the act of 1867 did not, in view of the State constitution
and the act of 1828 making charters subject to alteration, suspension,
and repeal, make sich a contract, and that the act of 1867 was constitutional.
ERROR to the Supreme Court of New York; the case
being thus:
Section 1 of article 8 of the constitution of the State, just
named, adopted by it A.D. 1826, ordains as follows:
"Corporations may be formed under general laws, but shall
not be created by special act except in certain cases. All general laws and special acts passed pursuant to this section may be
altered from time to time or repealed."

Dec. 1872.]

MILLER

t

v. THE STATE.

Statement of the case.

And title 3 of chapter 18 of the first part of the Revised
Statutes of 1828, enacts thus:
"The charter of every corporation that shall hereafter be
granted by the legislature shall be subject to alteration, suspension, and repeal, in the discretion of the legislature."
With this provision of the constitution and this enactment of the Revised Statutes of the State in force, the legislature of New York passed in 1850 a general act for the
formation of railroad companies and the regulation of the
same. This act authorized any number of persons, not less
than twenty-five, to form a company for the purpose of constructing, maintaining, and operating railroads for public
use,... and for this purpose to make and sign articles of

association in which the name of the company should be
stated, the places from which and to which the road was to
be constructed, the amount of the capital stock, which
should not be less than $10,000 for every mile of road con:
structed, the number of shares of which the capital stock
should consist, and the names and places of residence of
thirteen directors of the company who should manage its
affairs for the first year, and until others were chosen in their
place. Each subscriber was to state what number of shares
he would take; and the articles were to be filed in the office
of the Secretary of State, and after certain formalities gone
through with them, the persons who had subscribed the
articles of association, and all who should become stockholders in the company, "shall," says the act "be a corporation by the name specified in such articles of association,
and shall possess the powers and privileges granted to corporations, and be subject to the provisions contained in title 3 of
chapter 18 of the first part of the Revised Statutes."*
The formation of a railroad company to be styled the
Rochester and Genesee Valley Railroad Company, and to
run between the city of Rochester and the town of Portage,'
fifty miles south of it, being contemplated by a course which
* The provisions last above quoted; at the top of the page.

480

MILLER

v.

THE STATE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

should run through the town of Avon, about eighteen miles
south of Rochester, an act of the State just named amending the charter of that city was passed July 3d, 1851, by
which its common council were authorized to borrow upon
its credit $300,000, to be invested in the stock of the new
company, and by virtue of the subscription thus authorized,
the city was declared to acquire all the rights and privileges
and be liable to the same responsibilities as other stockholders.of the company, except as otherwise provided in the
act. In case the railroad company elected to receive the
subscription, the common council were authorized to nominate and appoint one director for every $75,000 of capital
stock held by the city at the time of each election of directors, but the city could have no voice in the election of the
remaining directors. On the 10th of July, 1851, the articles of association of the new company were filed in the
office of the Secretary of State, organizing the corporation
under the general railroad act of 1850, already in part
quoted. - The corporation was declared in the article to be
created for the purpose of constructing, owning, and maintaining a railroad from the city of Rochester to the town of
Portage, a distance, as already said, of fifty miles, with a
capital stock of $800,000, divided into 8000 shares of $100
each. On the 15th of June, 1852, the mayor of Rochester
subscribed for 8000 shares of the stock of the company, and,
on the same day, at a meeting of the directors of the railroad, such subscription was unanimously' accepted. Other
parties subscribed for stock to the amount of $677,500, so
that the whole amount subscribed, including the stock taken
by the city, was $977,500. The whole amount of capital
stock fully paid up was:
By the city of Rochester,.

By all other parties,.
Total amount,.

..

$300,000

255,200
$555,200

The balance of the stock subscribed was extinguished or
forfeited before March 9th, 1867. Before this time also the
Rochester and Genesee Valley Railroad Company had aban-

Dec. 1872.]

MILLER V. THE STATE.
Argument for the nine directors.

doned the construction of their road south of Avon, and
assigned all their rights and franchises beyond that point to
another corporation.
On the 9th of May, 1867, an act was passed, amending
the act of 1851 by giving the common council authority to
appoint one director for every $42,855.57 of stock owned by
the city; in other words, establishing the same ratio that
existed among the subscribers for stock at the time the
original subscription was made. The effect of this act was
to give the city of Rochester power to appoint seven of the
thirteen directors, and the other stockholders six. At the
next annual election, however, the stockholders, other than
the city, alleging that the act of July 3d, 1851, made a contract between the city and the other stockholders, that the
city should elect but four directors out of the thirteen, and
that the act of 1867, authorizing the election of seven, violated the obligation of that contract, proceeded to elect one
Miller and eight others directors as the directors eligible by
them; and on the same day the common council, in pursuance of the act of 1867, appointed seven other persons as
directors eligible by then?. Thereupon, the attorney-general
of INew York, on the relation of Powers and the six other
directors appointed by the city, issued a quo warrantoagainst
Miller and his eight co-directors; and the case coming to
the Court of Appeals that court held that the appointment
by the city was valid, and the election of the nine directors
by the other side irregular. Miller and his co-directors now
brought the case here.
The only question involved was the constitutionality of
the act of 1867. If that act was constitutional the decision
of the State court was correct, and was to be affirmed. If
the act was a violation of the Constitution of the United
States, the decision was erroneous and was to be reversed.
Messrs. Theodore Bacon and -H. B. Selden, for the plaintiffin
error, argued the case orally, and submitted also the opinions
of certain of the judges in the court below who dissented
from the judgment there. A part of one follows:
VOL. XV.

31

MILLER V.

THE

STATE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the nine directors.

The act of July 3d, 1851, made it lawful for two corporations to enter into an arrangement by which one of them
might become a stockholder'in the other if both should consent, and declared what the rights of the parties to the arrangement should be as between each other if they availed
themselves of this permission. There was no exercise of
legislative will further than to confer this power; all beyond
that depended upon the mutual consent of the parties.
The making and the acceptance of the subscription to the
stock were acts of the parties, and they thereby adopted the
conditions contained in the act of the legislature and mutually consented to be governed by them. The consent of
each party must be deemed to have been given in consideration of the obligation thus assumed by the other, and a
valid contract was thus made between the subscriber to the
stock and the other stockholders of the railroad company,
or the company representing the rights of such stockholders,
unless it can be shown that the subject-matter of the arrangement was one concerning which a contract could not be
made or authorized by the legislature to be made.
The city of Rochester, by this arrangement, secured to
itself the right of appointing four out of the thirteen directors. This was a valuable right, for in its absence, if the
stock of the company should all be paid up, the city holding
but a minority of the stock might not have been able to obtain the election of any director of its selection. In consideration of this privilege the city surrendered to the other
stockholders the right to elect the remaining nine directors.
The railroad company, in consideration of that surrender,
bound itself to admit the four city directors. N~either party
can be presumed to have acted on the assumption that this
arrangement could be changed without its consent. It may
well be supposed that those interested in the company and
who had embarked, or were about to embark, their capital
in it, would not have consented to place so large an amount
of stock in the hands of the city, had they not been secured
against the possibility of the control of the affairs of the
company becoming invested in so changing and uncertain a

Dec. 1872.]

MILLER V.

THE STATE.

Argument for the nine directors.

body as a municipal corporation, whose officers would have
no personal interest in the road and no special inducement
to manage it in the interest of its stockholders.
It will be argued, however, that the power reserved in the
constitution and statutes of the State of New York, to alter,
suspend or repeal the charters of all corporations, gives
power to the legislature to change the terms upon which the
subscription was received, and to enlarge the number of
directors to be appointed by the city, and that the act of
1867, which purports to authorize the city to appoint seven
directors instead of four, thus giving to the city the majority
instead of a minority representation in the board, is valid as
an amendment of the charter of the railroad company.
The purpose and object of this reservation of power is
generally conceded to have been to prevent the alienation
by the State of corporate franchises, in such form that they
could be held as against the State free from that legislative
control which the public interests might from time to time
require. When it was settled by the Supreme Oourt of the
United States that an uncbnditional charter to a private corporation was a contract between the State and the corporation, which could not be impaired by State laws, and that
franchises thus granted could never be withdrawn, several
of the States resolved to make no more such irrevocable
contracts, and either by general laws or provisions in the
charters themselves inserted the condition that such charters
might be altered or repealed.
In New York the constitution has deprived the legislature
of the power of granting irrepealable charters, and there is
now no power to make a grant of this description which
shall operate as an irrevocable contract on the part of the
State. But this reservation is for the benefit of the State
alone, and affects only the relations between it and the corporation. The exercise of this reserved power may, undoubtedly, indirectly affect private rights and interests which
are dependent upon the powers and franchises of the corporation itself, but no others. The individual rights and interests of the members of the corporation, or of persons

484

MILLER

v. THE

STATE.

[Sup. Ot.

Argument for the nine directors.

dealing with it, cannot be acted upon directly by the legislature even under the form of an amendment of the charter.
A contract between individuals or between a corporation
and individuals is not subjected to the action of the legislature by the mere fact that it is embraced in a charter or an
amendment to a charter, or results from a dealing had with
reference to such an enactment. The State has power to
revoke its own contracts where it has in making them
reserved such right. But it has no power to impair the
lawful contracts of its citizens, or even of corporations
created by it. When such contracts relate to the rights of
individuals and not to the powers of the corporation, any
attempt to reserve such a power would be ineffectual. And
a State constitution is no more effectual for such purpose
than a statute.*
In Zabriskie v. Hackensac and New York Railroad Co.,t
the doctrine is stated, that the reservation in a charter that
the State may at any time alter, amend, or repeal it, is a
reservation of the State for its own benefit and is not intended to affect the rights of corporators as between each
other; that it does not empower the State to authorize one
part of the stockholders for their own benefit and at their
mere option to change their contract with the other part,
but is confined to the powers and franchises granted to the
corporation by the charter. And although in the case cited
the doctrine was applied in a manner inconsistent with some
of our own adjudications, none of the latter will be found to
conflict with the doctrine itself.
In Oldiown and Lincob Railroad Co. v. T-eaziet the charter
required that not less than 11,000 shares should be subsqribed before the subscriptions could be enforced by calls.
The defendant subscribed for 1000 shares. Only 9500 shares
were subscribed in all. A supplemental act was then passed,
reducing the limit to 8000 shares. It was held that the reserved power to amend the charter did not authorize a
Dodge v. Woolsey, 18 Howard, 331.
39 Maine, 571.

t 3 0. E. Greene, 178.

Dec. 1872.]

MILLER V.

THE

STATE.

Argument for the nine directors.

change in the liability of the stockholders as between themselves.*
The cases of Sherman v. Smitht and The Reciprocily Bankj
which will probably be relied upon by the other side, are in
strict accordance with these views. The alterations in charters there, related to the franchises. One of the chief privileges which may be granted by an act of incorporation is
that of doing business as an aggregate body without that
individual liability of the members which, but for the incorporation, would necessarily attach. By the amendatory acts
the prospective enjoyment of that privilege was taken away
from corporations there. No attempt was made to impose
on the members liability for existing contracts of the corporation. The amendment affected the whole body alike, and
declared that for all contracts the corporation should make
after January, 1850, the members should be liable. This
was clearly within the scope of the power reserved, and
essentially different from the present case. In all the adjudications to be found in which the exercise of this power
has been maintained the amendment has related to the corporate franchises and only incidentally affected the rights of
the stockholders, through the interest which they had in the
franchises of the corporation itself, and affected the interests
of all the stockholders alike. The cases which have gone
the greatest length in support of this power§ are within this
limit. They are those in whicrl the corporate powers have
been enlarged after subscriptions to the stock, and the subscribers held not to be discharged by this enlalrgement of
the corporate enterprise. In these and kindred cases the
alteration affected purely the powers and duties of the corporation in its relations to the State and to the public, and
the subscriber to stock as well as the purchaser of stock
* And see Hawthorn v. Calef, 2 Wallace, 10; Woodruff v. Trapnall, 10
Howard, 190; Curran v. The State, 15 Id. 304.
t 21 New York, 9, and 1 Black, 587.
: 22 New York, 9.
PdSchenectady and Saratoga Plankroad Co. v. Thatcher, 11 New York,
102; Buffalo and New York City Railroad Co. v. Dudley, 14 Id. 336.

MILLER

v. THE

STATE.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the nine directors.

must be deemed to have contracted with reference to the
conceded power of the legislature over those subjects.
There are other acknowledged limits to the exercise of
the reserved power of amendment where it trenches upon
vested rights or rights of property of the corporation. In
Commonwealth v. -Essex Conpany*.the doctrine is maintained
that, "when under power in a charter rights have been acquired and become vested, no amendment of the charter
can take away the property or rights which have become
vested under the legitimate exercise of the powers granted."
See also Durfee v. Old Colony _ailroadt and Roxbury v. Boston
and Providence Bailroad.1
It will be argued, however, that, conceding the principle
that contracts .between the corporation and its stockholders,
though resulting from provisions of the charter, may be protected by the Constitution of the United States when they
do not relate to the franchises of the corporation, yet the
right of stockholders to vote on their stock or to appoint the
directors or managers of the company is a chartered right
and subject to the reservation in the State constitution.
This positidn necessarily leads to the result that the right
of stockholders in private business corporations to vote upon
their stock is wholly under the control of the legislature;
that it cannot be secured by any contract; and that whether
claimed under the provisions of the charter or under a contract made in pursuance ofilegislative authority, it may at
any time be taken away in toto from the stockholders by a
mere exercise of the will of the legislature; or it may be
taken from a portion and vested in the residue.
This result is inevitable, for if the right of voting and the
extent of the voice which each stockholder shall have in the
management of the property and the affairs of the corporation are mere charter rights or franchises created by the act
of incorporation, and within the scope of the power to suspend, alter, and repeal reserved in the constitution, they
cannot, even by authority of the legislature, be withdrawn
* 1 Gray, 239.

t 5 Allen, 230, 240, 247.

$: 6 Cushing, 424.

Dec. 1872.]

MILLER V.

THE

STATE.

Argument for the nine directors.

from the exercise of that power, and they can at any time
be taken away entirely from the stockholders without their
consent.
The most essential element of a right of property is the
right to manage or control the management of the object
which is in common parlance designated as property.
Is it argued that by investing property in a corporate enterprise, the owner consents to subject its management to
the control of the legislature?
This is true to a certain extent; but the fallacy of this
argument as applicable to the point now in question consists
in the omission to qualify the extent to which the owner
has, by thus investing his property, parted with his own
power over it.
He has doubtless restricted himself to the use of the property while so invested, in such business as the State may
sanction, and through such agencies as the State may permit him to appoint; but he has not consented to part with
his control over its management within those limits.
The legislature which creates the artificial body must necessarily have power to prescribe the organs through which
it shall act. But this is a different thing from arbitrarily
taking possession of the corporation itself, and through it
of the property of the parties for whose benefit the corporation was created. They cannot be presumed to have anticipated that a charter giving them the privilege of managing
their property for their own benefit, in a certain way, could
be transformed by this reserved power of amendment into a
vehicle which should transfer from them to the State, or its
appointees, all control over the property which they have
invested ii the corporate enterprise. To hold such a doctrine would be to place all property invested in corporate
enterprises beyond the pale of the protection of the Federal
Constitution. Such an act would approach nearer to one of
confiscation than of legislation.
It is no answer to say that the act of 1867 works so as to
secure an equitable result. If the arrangement which it
assumes to change was a contract, it makes no difference

MILLER V. THE STATE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

whether it was unduly. beneficial to one party or another.
The legislature has no power over it.
It is a misnomer to call the act of 1867 an amendment of
the charter of the railroad company. It affects no corporate right or franchise of the company. Its more appropriate description would be "An act to enlarge the rights of
one of the stockholders of the company."
Mr.J. C. Cochrane, contra.
Mr. Justice CLIFFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
Corporate franchises, granted to private corporations, if
duly accepted by the corporators, partake of the nature of
legal estates, and the grant, under such circumstances, if it
be absolute in its terms, and without any condition or reservation, importing a different intent, becomes a contract
within the protection of that clause of the Constitution
which ordains that no State shall pass any law impairing the
obligation of contracts. Charters of private corporations
,re regarded as executed contracts between the State and
the corporators, and the rule is well settled that the legislature, if the charter does not contain any reservation or other
provision modifying or limiting the nature of the contract,
cannot repeal, impair, or alter such a charter against the
consent or without the default of the corporation, judicially
ascertained and declared. Subsequent legislation, altering
or modifying such a charter, where there is no such reservation, is plainly unauthorized, if it is prejudicial to the rights
of the corporators, and was passed without their assent.
Where such a provision is incorporated in the charter, it is
clear that it qualifies the grant, and that the subsequent exercise of that reserved power cannot be regarded as an act
within the prohibition of the Constitution.* Such power
also, that is the power to alter, modify, or repeal an act of
incorporation, is frequently reserved to the State by a general law applicable to all acts of incorporation, or to certain
* ]Pennsylvania College Cases, 13 Wallace, 213.

Dec. 1872.]

MILLER

v. THE

STATE.

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

classes of the same, as the case may be; in which case it is
'equally clear that the power may be exercised whenever it
appears that the act of incorporation is one which falls
within the reservation, and that the charter was granted
subsequent to the passage of the general law, even though
the charter contains no -such condition, nor any allusion to
such a reservation.*
Matters of fact, though not in dispute, must be first ascertained, in order that the questions involved in the case may
be properly presented for decision. Briefly stated the material facts are as follows, as appears by the finding of the
court of original jurisdiction, and from the concessions of
the parties:
That the railroad company is a corporation duly organized
under the general railroad act of the State, passed on the
2d of April, 1850, and that the articles of association were,
on the 10th of July, of the succeeding year, filed in the office
of the secretary of state; that the articles of association
provided for the construction of a railroad from Rochester
to Portage, a distance of fifty miles, with a capital of eight
hundred thousand dollars, to be divided into shares each for
one hundred dollars, as therein specified; that the stock subscribed for the corporation, paid and unpaid, amounted to
nine thousand seven hundred and seventy-five shares, of
which only five thousand five hundred and fifty-two shares
were ever fully paid, and for which certificates have been
issued. Authority was conferred upon the city of Rochester,
by an act to amend the charter of the city, to subscribe for
or purchase stock of that railroad company to the amount
of three hundred thousand dollars, and the provision was
that by virtue of that subscription or purchase the city
should acquire all the rights and privileges, and be liable to
the same responsibilities as other stockholders of said company, except in certain particulars not necessary to be mentioned.t Pursuant to that authority the proper officers of
Fletcher v. Peck, 6 Cranch, 136; Terret v. Taylor, 9 Id. 61.
t Session Acts 1851, p. 768.

MILLER V. THE STATE.

[Sup. Ct.

Restatement of the case in the opinion.

the city subscribed for that amount of the stock of the railroad company, and it appears that the proper officers of the
railroad company elected to receive the subscription, and
that the full amount of the subscription was paid, and that
the certificates of the shares were duly issued to the city,
and that the city has ever since been the holder and owner
of the whole number of said shares. Power was also conferred upon the city, in case the company "elected to receive their subscription," to nominate and appoint one director for every seventy-five thousand dollars of capital
stock held by the municipality, at the time of each election
of directors, but the further provision was that the city
should have no voice in the election of the remaining directors; consequently the common council of the city, at
the time of each annual election of directors, elected fourthe number being limited by law to thirteen-and the other
stockholders elected nine, without any interference from the
city authorities. Complaints arose from the fact that four
hundred and fifty-two thousand and three hundred dollars
of the stock, subscribed by parties other than the city, had
never been paid in, nor bad certificates ever been issued for
any part of that unpaid subscription. On the contrary, the
same was not in existence as stock, having long before been
extinguished and forfeited for non-payment, in consequence
of which the railroad company had abandoned the construction of their road south of Avon, and assigned all their
right of way, property, and franchises beyond that point to
another corporation, so that their railroad as constructed
and operated terminates at Avon, and is only eighteen and
three-fourth miles in length. Control of the railroad, by a
change of circumstances not contemplated when the plan
was organized, being in the hands of stockholders owning a
minority of the stock, the legislature of the State, on the
9th of. March, 1861, enacted that the common council of
the city should "have the power to nominate and appoint
one director of the company for every forty-two thousand
eight hundred and fifty-five dollars and five-sevenths of a
dollar of capital stock of the said railroad company held by

Dec. 1872.]

MILLER V. THE STATE.
Restatement of the case in the opinion.

the said city, at the time of each election of directors of
said company."* Thereafter the common council of the
city, as the plaintiffs claim, became entitled at each annual
election of directors to elect seven of the number allowed
by law, and that the other stockholders were entitled to elect
the remaining six only, as authorized by the apportionment
prescribed by the amendatory act of the legislature. Accordingly the common council of the city, at the annual
election held in June of the succeeding year, elected seven
directors, but the other stockholders, denying the validity
of the amendatory act, elected nine directors under the old
law, and the persons so chosen immediately entered upon,
used, and exercised the said offices as directors of said corporation, and without any warrant or authority, as insisted
by the plaintiffs. Deprived of their rights as defined by the
amendatory act the plaintiffs brought the present action, in
the nature of a writ of quo warranto, in the Supreme Court
of the State, alleging that the nine directors elected by the
other stockholders have usurped the offices of directors of
the railroad company. Service was made and the defendants appeared and filed an answer. Hearing was had, and
the Supreme Court rendered judgment for the plaintiffs,
and the defendants transferred the cause to the Court of
Appeals, where the judgment was affirmed; thereupon the
losing party sued out a writ of error and removed the record
into this court. They seek to reverse the judgment of the
State courts upon the ground that the act of the State legislature, authorizing the common council of the city to elect
seven of the thirteen directors in the railroad company, is
unconstitutional and void as repugnant to their act of incorporation, and in support of that theory they submit the following propositions: (1.) That the signers of the beforementioned, articles of association, when the articles were
filed in the office of the secretary of state, became a corporation by the name specified in those articles, with all the
powers and privileges granted by the general law of the
* Sessions Acts 1867, p. 92.

MILLER V.

[Sup. Ct.

THE STATE.

Opinion of the court.

State upon that subject.* (2.) That the powers and privileges thus conferred were granted by the State, and that the
grant, as an act of incorporation, became and was an executed contract. (3.) That the powers and privileges of the
charter are prescribed and defined in the general railroad
law of the State. (4.) That the persons named as corporators in a charter cannot be compelled to accept the act of
incorporation, nor any modification or extension of the
powers and privileges granted, whether conferred or modified or extended, by a special act or by virtue of a general
law. (5.) That a contract created by an act of incorporation, when once complete, is unalterable by either party
without the consent of the other.
Undoubtedly the powers and privileges of the railroad
company in this case are the same as they would have been
if the company had been incorporated by a special act, and
it may also be conceded that the charter, when the articles
of association were filed in the office of the secretary of
state, became an executed contract, subject to the restrictions ordained by the constitution of the State, and to the
reservations contained in the general law of the State relating to corporations, and also in the general railroad act,
which it is admitted prescribes and defines the powers and
privileges of the railroad company.
Section one of article eight of the constitution of the State
ordains as follows: Corporations may be formed under general laws, but shall not be created by special act except in
certain cases. All general laws and special acts passed pursuant to this section may be altered from time to time or
repealed.t
Provision is also made by the eighth section of the act
defining the powers, privileges, and liabilities 9 f corporations, that the charter of every corporation that shall hereafter be granted by the legislature shall be subject to altera8 Edm. Stats., 618,
1-4.
f Constitution of 1846, Article 8,

1.

Dec. 1872.]

MILLER v.

THE STATE.

Opinion of the court.

tion, suspension, and repeal, in the discretion of the legislature.*'
Articles of association for the incorporation of railroad
companies cannot be filed and recorded in the office of the
secretary of state until at least one thousand dollars of
stock for every mile of railroad proposed to be made is subscribed thereto, nor without complying with the other conditions specified in the second section of the general railroad
act; and the first section of the act provides that such corporation shall be subject to the provisions (except those enacted in the seventh section) contained in title three of chapter eighteen of the first part of the revised statutes, which
includes section eight, containing the reservation that the
charter of every corporation that shall hereafter be granted
shall be subject to alteration, suspension, and repeal, in the
discretion of the legislature.t Such a reservation, therefore,
is not only ordained by the constitution of the State but it
has been twice enacted by the legislature, and it is conceded
that both of those statutes are in full force. Superadded to
those reservations is the further one, contained in the fortyeighth section of the general railroad act, which provides
that the legislature may at any time annul or dissolve any
corporation formed under this act, the effect of which, it is
admitted by the defendants, is to incorporate into the grant
a power of revocation, which seems to supersede all necessity
for any further remark upon the subject.t
Much consideration was given to the question under consideration in the case of Dartmouth College v. Woodward,§ in
which the right of the State was denied to amend the charter
granted to the college by the Crown before the Revolution,
and to rhodify and restrict the same without the consent of
the trustees under the charter. Four propositions were decided by the court in that case, the opinion being given by
the Chief Justice: (1.) That the charter was a contract within
the meaning of that clause of the Constitution which ordains
that no State shall pass any law impairing the obligation of
1 Revised Statutes, 600.
lb. p. 284.

t" Session Acts 1850, 212,
4 Wheaton, 675.

1.

MILLER v. THE STATE.
Opinion of the court.

[Sup. ot.
%

contracts. (2.) That the charter was not dissolved by the
Revolution. (3.) That the acts of the State legislature altering the charter, in a material respect, without the consent
of the corporation, was an act impairing the obligation of
the charter, and was unconstitutional and void. (4.) That
the college, under its charter, was a private and not a public
corporation.
Concurring opinions were also given by two of the associate justices, and Judge Story, in enforcing his views, remarked that where a private corporation is thus created by
the charter of the Crown, it is subject to no other control on
the part of the Crown than what is expressly or implicitly
reserved by the charter itself. Unless a power be reserved
for this purpose the Crown cannot, in virtue of its prerogative, alter or amend the charter or divest the corporation of
any of its franchises, or add to them, or augment or diminish
the number of trustees, or remove any of the members, or
change or control the administration of the funds, or compel the corporators to receive a new charter.
Prior to that adjudication the Supreme Court of Massachusetts had decided that rights legally vested in a corporation cannot be controlled or destroyed by any subsequent
statute, unless a power for that purpose be reserved to the
legislature in the act of incorporation; and the learned judge
having referred to that case remarked that the principles
there laid down are so consonant with justice, sound policy,,
and legal reasoning, that it is difficult to resist the impression of their perfect correctness, showing very plainly that
such legislation would be valid if the power for that purpose
is reserved in the act incorporating the company.* Conclusive evidence that such was the opinion of that learned
judge is also derived from his subsequent remarks in that
same case, in which he says that any act of a legislature
which takes away any powers or franchises vested by its
charter in a private corporation or its corporate officers, or
which restrains or controls the legitimate exercise of them,
* Dartmouth College v. Woodward Case, 4 Wheaton, 708; Wales v. Stetson, 2 Massachusetts, 146.

Dec. 1872.]

V. THE
D ILLER
7]

STATE.

Opinion of the court.

or transfers them to other persons, without its assent, is a violation of the obligations of the charter, adding: "If the
legislature mean to claim such an authority it must be reserved in the grant."*
Where such a provision is incorporated in the charter, it
is clear that it qualifies the grant, and that the subsequent
exercise of that reserved power cannot be regarded as an act
within the prohibition of the Constitution.t
Members of banking associations, it was enacted by the
general banking law of N'ew York, should not be individually liable for the debts of the association, unless it was so
provided in the articles of organization, but this court held,
in the case of Sherman v. Smith,. that a subsequent statute
imposing such a liability upon the shareholders of the association was a valid law, as the charter reserved to the legislature the power to alter or repeal the act of incorporation.
Such a conclusion was earnestly resisted at the bar, as the
conditional exemption from such liability was embodied in
the articles of association, but the court overruled the defence upon the ground that the reservation in the charter
of the right to alter or repeal the act was paramount and
controlling.
Decisions of the State courts, in repeated instances, both
before and since that time, have been made to the same
effect. When that case was before the Court of Appeals,
before the record was removed here for revision, the Court
of Appeals decided that the provision reserving to the legislature the power to alter or repeal the general banking law
became a part of the contract with every association formed
under it, and that the State might modify it prospectively
or retrospectively without infringing the article of the Federal Constitution, which ordains that no State shall pass any
law impairing the obligation of contracts, and this court
affirmed the judgment in that case.§
Dartmouth College v. Woodward, 4 Wheaton, 712; Cooley's Constitutional Limitations, 279.
: 1 Black, 687.
t Pennsylvania College Cases, 13 Wallace, 213.
Oliver Lee & Co.'s Bank, 19 New York, 146.

MILLER V. THU STATE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

Laws could not be enacted under the constitution in force
when the general banking law was passed, to create, alter,
continue, or renew any body politic or corporate, without
the assent of two-thirds of the members in each branch of
the legislature. Consequently it was contended that the
members of such associations, subsequently created, could
not be affected by the statute declaring that shareholders
should be liable individually for the debts of the association,
but the Court of Appeals reaffirmed the decision in the preceding case, and determined that the statute imposing that
liability was a valid exercise of the power reserved in that
act, and that its effect was that the franchises and privileges
granted were at all times subject to abrogation or change
by the legislative power 6f the State; that the power reserved was one to be exercised at any time by the existing
legislative authority, however constituted, and in any mode
conforming to the organic law of the State for the time
being .*
Exactly the same principle was adopted in the case of
Railroadv. Dudley,t where it was held that an alteration of
the charter of the company, made by the legislature, in pursuance of the power reserved to alter or repeal the act, by
changing its name, increasing its capital, and extending its
road, did not discharge a subscriber to the stock from liability for his subscription, whether such alteration was or
was not beneficial to him, the alteration having been duly
made and without fraud on the part of the company.1
Under such a reservation it is also held by the same court,
that a member of the corporation holds his stock subject to
such liability, as may attach to him in consequence of an extension or renewal of the charter, made without his application or consent, and that the estate of an intestate succeeds
to the individual liability imposed on the owner in his lifetime as a stockholder, in a corporation whose charter would
* The Reciprocity Bank, 22 New York, 14; White v. Railroad Co., 14
Barbour, 559.
j 14 New York, 348.
1 See also Plankroad v. Thatcher, 11 New York, 110.

Dec. 1872.]

MILLER V.

THE STATE.

Opinion of the court.

have expired if it had not been renewed, but was extended
after his death; and that his administrator was liable for
debts of the corporation contracted after the death of the
intestate.*
Even the defendants admit that the exact question presented for decision in this case was decided by the Supreme
Court of the State in the case between these same parties,
or some of them, and which was subsequently transferred
to the Court of Appeals, and was there reversed upon an
exception involving a question of local law.t
Nearly forty years earlier the same question substantially
was decided in the same way by the chancellor of that State,
in which he held that where a State legislature reserves to
itself, in the very charter it grants to a private corporation,
the right of altering, amending, or repealing the act of incorporation, a subsequent repeal of the charter is valid and
constitutional; that such a reservation in the charter of a
corporation, upon common law principles, is not repugnant
to the grant, but a constitutional limitation of the powers
granted.1 Few or none, it is presumed, will question the
correctness of that rule, but the court here is of the opinion
that the reservation is equally valid and effectual if it exists
in the constitution of the State, or in a prior general law.§
So where the legislature in granting a charter to an insurance company reserved the right to alter it, and they subsequently exercised that right by declaring that if the assets
of such corporation should pass into the hands of a receiver
he might make assessments upon the pi:emium notes, it was
held that this was a legitimate exercise of the reserved
power, and that it fully authorized the receiver to make
assessments whenever it became necessary to carry the in* Bailey v. Hollister, 26 New York, 116; Clarke v. City of Rochester, 28
Id. 631 ; People v. Hills, 35 Id. 449.
- People v. Hills, 46 Barbour, 344.
1. McLaren v. Pennington, 1 Paige Ch., 102.
2 Pennsylvania College Cases, 13 Wallace, 213; General Hospital v. Insurance Co., 4 Gray, 227; Roxbury v. Railroad Co., 6 Cashing, 424; Suydam v. Moore, 8 Barbour, 363; Angel & Ames on Corporations, 9th ed.,
767.
32
VOL. IV.

MILLER V. THE STATE.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

tention of the legislature into effect.*

Power to legislate,

founded upon such a reservation in a charter to a private
corporation, is certainly not without limit, and it may well
be admitted that it cannot be exercised to take away or destroy rights acquired by virtue of such a charter, and which
by a legitimate use of the powers granted have become
vested in the corporation, but it may be safely affirmed that
the reserved power may be exercised, and to almost any extent, to carry into effect the original purposes of the grant
or to secure the due administration of its affairs so as to
protect the rights of the stockholders and of creditors, and
for the proper disposition of the assets.t Such a reservation, it is held, will not warrant the legislature in passing
laws to change the- control of an institution from one religious sect to another, or to divert the fund of the donors
to any new use inconsistent with the intent and purpose of
the charter, or to compel subscribers to the stock, whose
subscription is conditional, to waive any of the conditions
of their contract t
Attempt is made in this case to show that the right to
elect all of the directors except four had become vested in
the stockholders owning a minority of the shares, and that
the amendatory act giving to the city the power to elect
seven impairs that vested right, but the court is entirely of
a different opinion, as the legislature in conceding that right
made the concession subject to the reserved power to alter
or repeal the charter, as ordained in the constitution of the
State, and also in the several statutes mentioned, which
clearly give to the legislature the power to augment or
diminish the number or.to change the apportionment as the
ends of justice or the best interest of all concerned may
require.
Hyatt v. McMahon, 25 Barbour, 467.

t

Commonwealth v. Essex Co., 13 Gray, 253; Miller v. Railroad Co., 21
Barbour, 517.
$ State v. Adams, 44 Missouri, 570; Zabriskie v. Railroad Co., 3 C. E.
Green, 180; Railroad Co. v. Veazie, 39 Maine, 581; Sage v. Dillard, 15 B.
Monroe, 357.

Dec. 1872.]

MILLER V. THE STATE.
Opinion of Bradley and Field, JJ., dissenting.

All parties supposed, when the charter was formed, and
when the subscriptions to the stock were paid, that the capital stock would be eight hundred thousand dollars, and that
the right conceded to the city to elect four out of the thirteen directors would give the city a fair proportion of the
whole number, but circumstances have cbanged in consequence of the failure of a large class of the subscribers to
the stock to make good their subscriptions. Payments being
refused, the corporation found it necessary to reduce the
capital stock, and to shorten the route, as before explained.
These changes from the original design made new legislation necessary to the ends of justice, and the amendatory
act was passed to effect that object, and the court is of the
opinion that the amendatory act is a valid law and that the
judgment should be
AFFIRMED.

Mr. Justice BRADLEY, with whom concurred Mr. Justice FIELD, dissenting.
I dissent from the opinion of the court in this case, on
the ground that the agreement with respect to the number
of directors which the city of Rochester should elect, was
not a part of the charter of the company, but an agreement
outside of and collateral to it. Whilst the legislature may
reserve the right to revoke or change its own grant of chartered rights, it cannot reserve a right to invalidate contracts
between third parties; as that would enable it to reserve the
right to impair the validity of all contracts, and thus evade
the inhibition of the Constitution of the United States.
[See the next case.]

