Dec. 1872.]

HAFFIN V. MASON.
Statement of the case.

merged and excluded when the parties assent to a written
instrument as expressing the agreement. And it is hardly
necessary to say, that the party who has destroyed the validity of that contract by his own fraud, cannot for that reason
treat it as if it had never been made, and recover on the
verbal statements made before its execution.
We may add that, as the only testimony offered to prove
this parol contract, was the deposition of a single witness,
made part of the bill of exceptions, we do not see in that
deposition sufficient evidence of a completed contract, of an
agreement assented to by both parties at any one time, to
be submitted to a jury, even if the written contract had
never been executed.
JUDGMENT REVERSED,

with directions to grant
A

NEW TRIAL.

HAFFIN V. MASON.
If a collector of internal revenue under the Internal Revenue Act of June
30th, 1864, have a proper warrant from the assessor for the collection
of taxes specially assessed for deficiency of an original return, he cannot
be sued in trespass for distraining and selling the taxpayer's property,
on such per-on's refusal to pay the new assessment, even though such
assessment have been illegally made. The warrant of the assessor is a
justification to him. .Erskinev. Hohsnbach (14 Wallace, 613) affirmed.
Hence, a recovery cannot be had in an action of trespass against himiand
an assessor for an assessment made by the assessor, in disregard of the
act, however such recovery could be had against the assessor in an action
against him alone.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Southern District of
New York; the case being thus:
The act of June 30th, 1864, "to provide internal revenue
to support the government," &c.,* makes it the duty of distillers to make and return to the assessor of their district, a
* Sections 11, 14, 13 Stat. at Large, 225,226.

H AFFIN V.

MASON.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

list of the merchandise made or sold by them; and if they
make a list which in the opinion of the assessor is false or
fraudulent, or contains any understatement or undervaluation, it is made the duty of the assessor-it being made
"lawful" for him first to give notice to the party, and summon such party before him to give testimony and to answer
interrogatories respecting his trade and sales, and in case
of a neglect of the party on such notice to come before him,
then to have him summoned before the judge of the district
whose duty it is made by himself or his commissioner, on
the parties being brought before him, to hear the case-to
make, according to the best information he can obtain, a
true list, according to a form which the statute prescribes,
"of the property, goods, wares, and merchandise, and all
articles or objects liable to duty or tax, . . . and assess the
duty thereon," adding in certain cases penalties prescribed;
"and the amount" so added to the duty "shall in all cases,"
says the act, "be collected by the collector at the same time
and in the same manner with the duties; and the lists or
returns so made . . . shall be taken and reputed as good
and sufficient lists or returns for all legal purposes." Other
parts of the act authorize distress and sale of the party's
property for non-payment of duties lawfully assessed.
With this a6t in force Hyatt, assessor of internal revenue
for one of the districts of New York, being, or professing
to be, of the opinion that Haffin and Wagner, distillers
there-who had made certain returns which they alleged to
be true, and paid taxes upon them-had not in a list rendered
by them, made a true return of liquors which they had distilled during a term specified, made out-in a form somewhat peculiar, and purporting to be an assessment upon
"deficiency on returns," and without giving to the distillers
any notice of the increased enumeration or of his action,
and so without giving them any opportunity to be heard-a
new list, which, having duly certified, he gave to one Mason,
the collector of the district, that he might collect the amount
charged. Mason made a demand at the distillery for payment of the sum, and payment being refused, he distrained

:Dec. 1872.]

D1AFFIN V. MASON.
Argument for the taxpayer..

upon the distillery and other property of the distillers and
sold it at auction; the distillers being present and protesting
against the sale. Hereupon they brought an action of trespass against both Hyatt and Mason, on the ground that the
whole proceeding was wrongful, as they had made correct returns of their business, paid all the taxes properly chargeable
upon it, and done nothing which justified the action of the
assessor. Plea, "not guilty." On the trial the plaintiffi
having given evidence tending to show, as they considered,
a non-compliance by Hyatt, the assessor, with requisitions
made by the internal revenue act, requisitions (as they considered) precedent to any lawful levy on a new list-and the
new list in this case being in evidence without objection,
and without any point raised as to its form or sufficiencyrequested the court to charge "that the defendants were
liable in this action, and that the plaintiffs were entitled to
judgment for the value of the property seized and sold by
the defendant, Mason, as aforesaid."
The court refused so to charge, and directed the jury to
find for the defendants, which they did. Judgment having
been entered accordingly, the plaintiffs brought the case
here.
Nessrs. J. iHubley Ashton and H. F. Averill, for the plainiffs in.erlror:
1. The only authority which Mason had for seizing and
selling the property, was the "list" given him by Hyatt. In
this "list" he must find justification, or he is a trespasser.
Now this list affords him no protection, unless under the
Internal Revenue Act Hyatt had the power to make it. And
these statutes, so far as they operate to take away the rights
of the citizen, must be construed strictly. They cannot
have an equitable construction, nor be extended by implication. Every substantial requisite of the law must be shown
to have been complied with. No presumption can be raised
in behalf of a collector who sells property for taxes to cover
any radical defect in the proceedings. Now, here the assessor
was bound to give notice to the distillers of his dissatisfacVOL. XV.

43

IIAFFIN V.

MASON.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

tion with their returns, in order that they might show them
to have been true. When it was made lawful for him to do
this, it was made obligatory. The assessor is not to proceed
inquisitorially, and to be at once detective, prosecutor, and
judge. Suppose that in fact the returns which the plaintiffs
made were true. What a case have we of oppression by a
subaltern officer of the revenue. Undoubtedly their notice
was a prerequisite.
2. The list was void on its face. It purports to be an assessment upon "deficiency on returns" of distilled spirits.
There is no tax known to the law "on deficiency on returns."
3. That both defendants are liable for the trespass, would
seem from the case of Snith v. Shaw.*
Mr. G. -. Williams, Attorney- General, and lMr. C. H. Bill,
Assistant Attorney- General, contra.
Mr. Justice DAVIS delivered the opinion of the court.
In the view we take of the case, it is not necessary to notice anything that occurred at the trial, except the refusal
of the court, on the request of the plaintiffs, to charge "that
the defendants were liable in this action, and that the plaintiffs were entitled to judgment for the value of the property
seized and sold by the defendant, Mason." The refusal to
give this instruction was excepted to and is assigned for
error. If,in the state of this record, both these defendants
were not liable in an action of trespass, the charge, as prayed,
was incorrect, and therefore properly refused.
We are not required to consider whether the assessor was
not liable, because the proposition which the court was asked
to sanction assumed the liability of both, and a party cannot
assign for error the refusal of an instruction to which he has
not the right to the full extent as stated, nor is the court
bound to modify the instruction moved for by counsel, so as
to bring it within the rules of law.t If the plaintiffs wished
* 12 Johnson, 257.

t Catts v. Phalen, 2 Howard, 382; Buck v. Chesapeake Insurance Co., 1
Peters, 159.

Dec. 1872.]

HAFFIN V. MASON.
Opinion of the court.

to test the question whether, under the evidence in the case,
they could not recover against the assessor alone, they should
have fashioned their instruction to meet that emergency.
If they did not choose to do this, they are precluded from
raising the question here, and the only point for decision is
whether the court below erred in refusing the instruction in
the terms in which it was presented.
A ministerial officer, in a case in which it is his duty to
act, cannot on any principle of law be made a trespasser.
This court, in the recent case of I.rskiae v. Hohnbach,* applying this doctrine to a collector of internal revenue, say, that
his duties 4n the enforcement of a tax-list are purely ministerial, and that "the assessment duly certified to him is his
authority to proceed, and, like an execution to a sheriff,
regular on its face, issued by a tribunal having jurisdiction
of the subject-matter, constitutes his protection."
The assessment in this case, duly certified by Hyatt, the
assessor, was received in evidence without objection, and no
point was raised as to its form or sufficiency. If, then, the
assessor had the right to decide the question, whether the
plaintis were liable to the increased taxation, the list delivered by him to the collector, properly certified, was his
warrant to seize and sell the property, in case the taxes were
not paid, after he had made demand for them.
It was not the business of the collector to inquire into the
case to ascertain whether the assessor had reached a proper
conclusion upon the matter submitted to his judgment, nor
had he any right to refuse to enforce the assessment.
The act of June 30th, 1864,t confers authority on the
assessor to make an increased enumeration in case the distiller has not rendered a true account of his business, and
directs the manner of proceeding, in order to find out the
deficiency. This mode was not pursued by the assessor,
and as the case stands, it would seem that the plaintiffs have
been adjudged to pay a large amount of money without the
opportunity to be heard, and which they swear they do not
owe the United States. It is presumed the assessor had
* 14 W~allace, 613.

t Section 14, 13 Stat. at Large, 226, 227.

THE LUCILLE.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

grounds for his action, which would relieve the case of its
apparent hardship, but whqther he had or not, the collector
is protected. This officer had the right to suppose the taxes
were due, and that all proper steps had been taken to ascertain this fact. If he could not rightfully act on this supposition, it is difficult to see how he could be protected in
collecting taxes, when the authority of the assessor to levy
them was given by law, and the precept for their collection
was regular on its face. It follows, from these views, that
the Circuit Court was right in refusing the instruction as
prayed for, and that, on the ground that the collector was
not a trespasser, the judgment must be
AFFIRMED.

THE

LUCILLE.

1. A schooner approaching a steamer coming towards her on a parallel line,
with the difference of half a point in the course of the two, tending to a
convergence, does right when she keeps on her course; and the steamer
is bound to keep out of her way, and to allow her a free and unobstructed passage. Whatever is necessary for this it is the steamer's
duty to do, and to avoid whatever obstructs or endangers the sailing
vessel in her course.
2. Fault on the part of the sailing vessel at the moment preceding a collision (assuming fault to have existed) does not absolve a steamer,
which has suffered herself and a sailing vessel to get in such dangerous
proximity as to cause inevitable confusion, and collision as a consequence.
8. These doctrines-doctrines declared in The Carroll (8 Wallace, 302), and
The Fannie (11 Id. 238)-redeclared and applied
4. A decree of a District Court where interest was not in terms given,
affirmed in this court, April 28th, 1872, with interest at the rate allowed
in the district where given, from its date, Mlarch 12th, 1869; the appeals being considered not well founded.
APPEAL from the decree of the Circuit Court for the District of Maryland, in a case of collision; the facts being
thus:
A little after midnight of December 20th, 1868, the moon
not shining, but the night not being a dark one, the schooner

