232

CASE OF THE STATE FREIGHT TAX.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

CASE OF THE STATE FREIGHT TAX.
[READING RAILROAD COMPANY V. PENNSYLVANIA.]

1. The transportation of freight, or of the subjects of commerce, is a constituent part of commerce itself.
2. A tax upon freight, transported from State to State, is a regulation of
commerce among the States.
3. Whenever the subjects in regard to which a power to regulate commerce
is asserted are in their nature National, or admit of one uniform system
or plan of regulation, they are exclusively within the regulating control
of Congress.
4. Transportation of passengers or merchandise through a State, or from
one State to another, is of this nature.
5. Hence a statute of a State imposing a tax upon freight, taken up within
the State and carried out of it, or taken up without the State and brought
within it, is repugnant to that provision of the Constitution of the United
States, which ordains that "Congress shall have power to regulate commerce with foreign nations and among the several States, and with the
Indian tribes."
ERROR to the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania; the case
being thus:
On the 25th of August, 1864, the Legislature of Pennsylvania passed an act entitled "Anl act to provide additional
revenue for the use of the Commonwealth." It enacted"SECTIDN

1. That the president, treasurer, cashier, or other

financial officer, of every railroad company, steamboat company,
canal company, and slackwater navigation company, and all

other companies now or hereafter doing business within this State,
and upon whose works freight may be transported, whether by

such company or by individuals, and whether such company
shall receive compensation for transportation, for transportation
and toll, or shall receive tolls only, except turnpike companies,
plank-road companies, and bridge companies, shall, within thirty
days after the first days of January, April, July, and October of
every year, make return in writing to the auditor-general, under
oath or affirmation, stating fully and particularly the number of
tons of freight carried over, through, or upon the works of said
company, for the three months immediately preceding each of

Dec. 1872.]

CASE OF THE STATE FREIGHT TAX.

233

Statement of the case.
the above-mentioned days; and each of the companies, except
as aforesaid, shall, at the time of making such return, pay to the
State treasurer, for the use of the Commonwealth, on each two
thousand pounds of freight so carried, tax at the following rates,
viz. ;
"1First, on the product of mines, quarries, and clay-beds, in the condition
in which said products may be taken therefrom, 2 cents.
"Second, on hewn timber, animal food, including live stock; also, on the
products of the forest, vegetable, and other agricultural products, the value
of which has not been increased by labor, 3 cents.
£ Third, on all other articles, 5 cents.

"Where the same freight shall be carried over and upon different but contnuous lines, said freight shall be chargeable with tax
as ifit had been carried but upon one line, and the whole tax shall
be paid by such one of said companies as the State treasurer may
select and notify thereof. Corporations whose lines of improvements are used by others for the transportation of freight, and
whose only earnings arise from tolls charged for such use, are
authorized to add the tax hereby iimposed to said tolls and collect the
same therewith, but in no case shall tax be twice charged on the
same freight carried on or over the same line of improvements:
Provided, That every company now or hereafter incorporated
by this Commonwealth, whose line extends into any other State,
and every corporation, company, or individual of any other
State, holding and enjoying any franchises, property, or privileges whatever in this State, by virtue of the laws thereof, shall
make returns of freight and pay for the freight carried over,
through, and upon that portion of their lines within this State,
as if the whole of their respective lines were in this State."
[It is a fact that is referred to in the argument, and which
may, therefore, well enough be here noted, that the roads of
some railroad companies in Pennsylvania traverse the whole
of that great State. That is the case with the railroad of the
Pennsylvania Railroad Company (the great PPennsylvania
Central"); also of the Philadelphia and Erie. Other roads
are very short; hardly Pennsylvania roads at all. This is
the case with the Lake Shore Road in what is known in
Pennsylvania as "the Triangle;" the small part of the State
which borders on Lake Erie. The east terminus of the road

CASE OF THE STATE FREIGHT TAX.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

receives converging roads from the whole State of New
York, from New Jersey, and from all New England, and
from its western end roads diverge again over the whole
West. So the New York and Erie Railroad, whose line for
its main great extent runs along the south line of New York,
but which, from a necessity of the soil in New York, had
to make a small curvature which brings it for a few miles
into Pennsylvania. So the Philadelphia, Wilmington and
Baltimore, in its chief length in Maryland and Delaware, its
northern terminus only in Pennsylvania. So other roads.]
On the 25th of October, 1866, the accounting officers of
Pennsylvania stated an account under the statute already
quoted between the Commonwealth and the Reading Railroad Company, "for tax on tonnage for the quarters ending
December 31st, 1865, and March 31st, and June 30th, 1866."
The company named is a corporation created under the laws
of Pennsylvania, and is engaged in the sole business of transporting freights for hire, and carrying no commodities of its
own. An important part of its business is carrying coal
from the mountains of Pennsylvania to a place called Port
Richmond, near Philadelphia, a distance of about one hundred miles; the whole road being in Pennsylvania. A portion of the coal transported to Port Richmond is sold there
to consumers, but by far the larger portion is intended for
exportation to points beyond the limits of Pennsylvania, and
is transferred at Port Richmond into vessels destined for
such points. A considerable quantity of coal is also transported by the railroad company to a point on the Schuylkill Canal, where it is loaded in barges and exported beyond the State. The company was charged by the State:
For freight transported to points within the State ot Penn$38,361
..
......
.
sylvania,
46,520
For that exported to points without the State, .
$84,881

The latter sum the railroad company refused to pay. It
set up that the statute of .1864, to the extent that it imposed
a tax on freight other than that both received and delivered

Dec. 1872.]

CASE OF THE STATE FREIGHT TAX.

235

Statement of the case.

within the State of Pennsylvania, was unconstitutional and
void, because, among other reasons, it was in conflict with
the Constitution of the United States, which ordains that
"Congress shall have power to regulate commerce with
foreign nations, and among the several States."
Suit being brought in the Common Pleas of Dauphin
County, the jury found that the freight in question was
originally destined for exportation beyond the boundaries of
Pennsylvania, and that it was actually exported, in a continuous course of transportation, in the cars of the defendants, to points on the river Delaware, or the Schuylkill Canal,
and thence in vessels. Being instructed by the court (PEARSON, J.) that such a finding should be followed by a verdict
for the defendants, verdict and judgment so went.
The charge of the judge was but a reiteration of the opinion
which he had previously expressed in other cases on the constitutional point in question, and which appeared to have
been acquiesced in by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania,
since, although writs of error were taken to the judgments
in those cases, he observed that they were never argued, "as
they were considered correctly decided by the then Attorney-General of Pennsylvania, the Honorable W. M. Meredith." However, a writ of error was taken from the Supreme
Court of Pennsylvania to the judgment entered on the verdict in the present cause, and it resulted in the judgment of
the Court of Common Pleas being reversed by the higher
tribunal;* that court admitting the force of the argument
that could be made against their view, but conceiving that
"a case of simple doubt should be resolved favorably to the
State act, leaving the correction of the error, if there was
any, to the Federal judiciary."
To understand the full force of the argument in the opinion
of that court, the reader must refer to the opinion itself.
Among other grounds on which it rested the reversal, were
these:
That the products carried from points within the State to
* See 62 Pennsylvania State, 286.

CASE OF THE STATE FREIGHT TAX.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

points without, or from points without to points within, were
not discriminated against and required to pay more than
other products carried wholly within the State, all paid the
same exact freight; a charge for transportation simply.
That this tax was not imposed as, or intended to be, a regulation of commerce, in other words a rule by which commerce was to be governed; but was a tax to raise money for
the support of government, and made, therefore, in the exercise of an authority which flowed from the power to tax for
revenue. Adverting to the case of Brown v. Jflaryland,* and
to the question put there by Chief Justice Marshall, as about
a thing plainly unconstitutional,"What restrains a State from taxing any article passing
through it from one State to another, for the purpose of traffic?
Or from taxing the transportation of articles passing from the
State itself to another State, for commercial purposes ?"the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania said:
"The Chief Justice had reference to specific burdens. These
subjects must not be singled out-and taxed, for this would be
discrimination affecting intercourse, invidious and inviting retaliation from other States or foreign powers. But he did not
mean by these illustrations, that those who use the artificial
works, constructed by the State, or under their franchise, might
so do without conpensation, because they transported their goods
on them for such purposes, or that they are not bound to share
with our citizens the equal burdens, which is the price they must
pay for availing themselves of these facilities.'
That in virtue of her unquestioned power to improve her
own resources and to regulate her internal affairs, the State
had built up a network of railways and canals, and had improved natural channels, and that in virtue of her right of
eminent domain and her power to legislate on her internal
affairs and the creations of her own sovereignty, she had a
right to exact tolls, charges, and fares for their use, and that
whether this was done by a direct charge on the tonnage or
* 12 Wheaton, 419.

Dec. 1872.]

CASE OF THE STATE FREIGHT TAX.

237

Argument against the tax.

by a tax on the corporations who used the franchise was unimportant.
The court stated that it would not rest the case on the aebatable ground of State power to regulate interstate commerce in the absence of Congressional legislation on the
same subject. The case, having been brought here, was
twice argued.
Messrs. James -E. Gowen and Robert . Lam berlon,for the
plaintiff in error; a brief of 31r. J. T. Simonton, for other railroad companies interested with the plaintiff in error in"
the question involved, being filed by leave of the court.
I. Assuming that the act in question is a regulation of
interstate commerce, and therefore interferes with the constitutional authority of Congress, the first point to be considered is, whether its applicability to the domestic, as well
as to the extra-territorial, commerce of the State excludes it
from the operation of the constitutional provision. In other
words, is a regulation of commerce, which would be unconstitutional
if confined to foreign commerce, rendered constitutional by being
extended to domestic commerce also ?
If this question must be answered affirmatively, the attempt of the framers of the Constitution to secure commerce
between the States from State regulation has been unsuccessful. The simple expedient of including its own domestic commerce within its commercial regulations will enable
any State to regulate, to any extent, the commerce between
the States which happens to be carried on within its territorial limits. The price to be paid for such a prerogative,
would, in most cases, be trifling. The citizens of Pennsylvania can well afford to submit to a commercial regulation
which taxes, for their benefit, the millions of tons of freight
which are transported through or from their State. A regulation of commerce which taxes the vast tonnage of the
great thoroughfares which traverse the State from east to
west and from north to south; which taxes the tonnage of
the Pennsylvania, of the Erie, of the Lake Shore, of the

CASE OF THE STATE FREIGHT TAX.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the tax.

Philadelphia, Wilmington, and Baltimore, and other railroads over which freight is transported, through or from the
State; which compels foreign consumers of coal, and the
other mineral products of Pennsylvania, to pay tribute for
the privilege of having them transported, either by natural
or artificial channels, by rivers or by railroads, is not likely
to be considered oppressive by the people of Pennsylvania.
A State through whose territory a single line of railroad
passes would not hesitate to regulate railroad commerce
without discriminating in favor of its own domestic commerce, if the regulations proposed would render the commerce of a continent tributary to its treasury. The steamboat traffic of the Mississippi would be a tempting subject
for the commercial regulations of the several States within
whose boundaries it is carried on. None of the evils which
induced the framers of the Constitution to invest Congress
with the power of regulating commerce between the States
would be avoided under such an interpretation of the Constitution.* The increase of the States and the vast increase
of commerce between them would render the burdens of
State regulations a hundredfold more onerous than they
were before the Constitution was adopted. Can it be supposed that, at the present time, a citizen of California would
not object to paying transit duties in every State through
which his merchandise may happen to be transported, on its
passage from the Atlantic to the Pacific, merely because the
same duties were imposed upon domestic transportation
within those States. iHe would justly argue that the duties
collected inured to the benefit of the citizens of the States
which imposed them, and not to his benefit.
Practically, therefore, the prohibition against State regulations of interstate commerce would be nugatory, if it
could be evaded by extending such regulations to domestic
as well as to extra-territorial commerce; and no interpretation of the Constitution which permits such an evasion can
* See The Federalist, No. 7, by Mr. Hamilton, depicting the injurious
consequences of permitting the several States to regulate commerce.

Dec. 1872.]

CASE OF THE STATE FREIGHT TAX.

239

Argument against the tax.

be legitimate. Indeed, unless it can be shown that a statute
which regulates commerce between the States as well as
commerce in the State, is not a regulation of commerce between the States, the argument is at an end.
In Crandallv. The State of Nfevada,* a statute enacted that
there should "be levied and collected a capitation tax of $1,
upon every person leaving the State by any railroad, stagecoach, or other vehicle engaged and employed in the business
of transporting passengers for hire." But the unanimous
judgment of this court condemned the statute as unconstitutional. A majority of the court did not think the statute a
regulation of commerce, though a part did. But all held
the statute unconstitutional and void. The right of citizens
of the United States to pass from point to point of the National territory, unrestricted by State regulations, was emphatically asserted. Would the statute have been constitutional if it had also taxed the right of passage within the
State of Nevada? Can any State tax, and, by taxing, prohibit the passage of citizens of the United States, from, into,
and through her territory, because she imposes a similar tax
and a similar prohibition upon the right of passage within
her territory ? Can'a State tax imported wines in the hands
of the importers by a statute which taxes all wines, domestic
as well as foreign ?t
II. Considering the case, then, as if the tax imposed by
the act in question had been expressly confined to the transportation of the freight through, into, or from Pennsylvania,
is the imposition of such a tax a regulation of commerce between
the States ?
If taxing interstate commerce is not regulating it, it is
not easy to imagine what would be. In Brown v. iMaryland,
6 Wallace, 35; and see Clarke, Treasurer of the State of Delaware, v.
The Philadelphia, Wilmington, and Baltimore Railroad Company, in the
Court of Errors and Appeals of Delaware, A.D. 1871, and the opinion of
Bates, C.; also The Erie Railway Company v. The State of New Jersey (2
Vroom, 531), which, in all material respects, is identical with that now before the court.
t Low v. Austin, 13 Wallace, 29.

240

CASE OF THE STATE FREIGHT TAX.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the tax.

Marshall, C. J., when speaking of the power of a State to tax
its own citizens or their property, within its territory, refers
to the imposition of a State tax upon goods passing through
or from the State, as an extreme illustration, apparently, of
an encroachment upon the reserved power of Congress to
regulate commerce. He says:
"If the States may tax all persons and property found in their
territory, what shall restrain them from taxing goods in their
transit through the State, from one part to another, for the purpose of re-exportation? The laws of trade authorize this operation, and general commerce requires it. Or what restrainsa State
from taxing any articlepassing through it, from one State to another,
for the purposes of traffic ? Orfrom taxing the transportationof articles passing from the State itself, to another State, for commercial
purposes? These cases are all within the sovereign power of
taxation, but would obviously derange the measures of Congress
to regulate commerce, and affect, materially, the purposes for
which the power-was given."
There is nothing (as there was assumed by the court below to be) in the language quoted, which warrants the inference that "specific burdens" on the subjects mentioned
were referred to. The Chief Justice was speaking of the
power claimed for the States, to tax all persons and property.
found on their territory; and he meant to assert that a State
tax on all property within its limits could not be levied on
goods in transit through or from the State.
The main object of conferring upon Congress the power
to regulate commerce among the several States, was to put
an end to the onerous and vexatious taxes and duties with
which it had been burdened by State legislation. It does
not seem to have occurred to the framers of the Constitution,
that the States might still continue to tax interstate commerce, notwithstanding the grant of this power to Congress;
but perhaps there never has been a case yet where the validity of a State tax law has been questioned on the ground
of its being a regulation of interstate commerce, in which
an attempt has not beenmade to show that the law was not
a regulation of commerce, but merely an exercise of the

Dec. 1872.]

CASE

OF

THE STATE FREIGHT TAX.

241

Argument against the tax.

State power of taxation. The present case is no exception,
but no advantage can be derived from repeating the reasons
which have in former cases led this court to reject such
reasoning.
Will it be said that the statute in question only incidentally and indirectly affects interstate commerce, inasmuch as
the tax complained of is levied, not on the goods transported,
but on the business of the transporting companies?
This distinction, even if it were substantial-which is not
admitted-does not tend to show that the tax is not a regulation of commerce. On the contrary, the fact that the transportation itself, and not the goods transported, is taxed, renders the tax the more plainly a tax upon commerce. It is
the very eommerce itself that is taxed, and not the subjects
with which it deals. The imposition of a tax on every ton
of coal mined in Pennsylvania would not be a tax on commerce; but a tax on the transportation of the coal from the
mines to the consumer, is as clearly a tax on the commerce
in coal as any that can be imagined.*
Washington, J., in Cboifield v.
What is "commerce?"
Coryell,t tells us:
"Commerce with foreign nations, and among the several
States, can mean nothing more than intercourse with those nations and among those States, for the purposes of trade, be the
object of the trade what it may, and thus intercourse must inelude all the means by which it can be carried on, whether by
the free navigation of the waters of the several States, or by a'
passage overland through the States, where such passage becomes necessary to the commercial intercourse between the
States."

Beasley, 0. J., in The Erie Railway Company v. The State
of New Jersey, speaks to the same effect. He says:
"If there can be no commerce between the States without
goods, so there can be none without the transportation of goods.
The two must be united to constitute interstate commerce. So
Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheaton, 189.
t 4 Washington's Circuit Court, 379.
$ 2 Vroom, 531.
VOL. xv.

16

242

CASE OF THE STATE FREIGHT TAX.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the tax. ,

it is not certain, then, that a duty on one of these two elements
in commerce must, in the nature of things, operate as a tax upon
the other. As commerce, the two things are indissoluble; are
they divisible for the purpose of taxation? I think it may be
laid down as a general rule, universally applicable to all cases
arising under the clause of the Constitution now considered, that
whenever the taxation of a commodity would amount to a regulation of commerce, so will the taxation of an inseparable incident, or a necessary concomitant of such commodity. The object
being to protect the merchandise from all exactions in its transit
over a State, by a rule of construction, as necessary as it is elementary, we must imply a protection to'the means required to
effect such a passage, because, without such implication, the
privilege intended to be secured is defeated."
That the transportationof freight was intended by the legislature, in the act of 1864, to be the subject of the tax, is as
clear as words can make it. A tax upon goods is not per se
a tax upon commerce, much less upon interstate c6mmerce
in the goods, for they may never become subjects of commerce; but how the transportation of goods from a consignor
in the State to a consignee out of the State can be taxed
without taxing, and therefore without regulating interstate
commerce, it is not easy to see.
In Brown v. Maryland, it was argued at the bar, that the
tax was not upon the article imported, but upon the occupation of the importer. But says Marshall, C. J.:
"It is impossible to conceal from ourselves that this is varying
the form without varying the substance. It is treating a prohibition, which is general, as if it were confined to a particular
mode of doing the forbidden thing. All must perceive that the
tax on the sale of an article imported only for sale, is a tax on
the article itself. It is true that the State may tax occupations
generally; but this tax must be paid by those who employ the
individual, or is a tax on his business. The lawyer, the physician, or the mechanic, must either charge more on the article in
which he deals, or the thing itself is taxed through his person.
This the State has a right to do, because no constitutional pro:bibition extends to it. So a tax on the occupation of an importer
isin.like.manner a tax on importation. It must add to the price

Dec. 1872.]

CASE OF THE STATE FREIGHT TAX.

243

Argument against the tax.

of the article, and be paid by the consumer or by the importer
himself in like manner as a direct duty on the article itself would
be made (paid?). This the State has no right to do, because it
is prohibited by the Constitution."
In Almy v. Cal fornia,* a tax upon a bill of lading was held
to be substantially and really a tax upon the exports for
which the bill of lading was to be used.
In both these cases cited, this court acted on what GRIER,
J., with his ponderous sense, says in.the Passenger Cases:t
" We have to deal with things, and we cannot change them
by changing their names. Can a State levy a duty on vessels
engaged in commerce and not owned by her own citizens, by
changing its name from a ' duty on tonnage' to 'a tax on the
master?' or an impost on imports, by calling it a charge on the
owner or supercargo, and justify the evasion of a great principle
by producing a dictionary or a dictum to prove that a ship captain is xiot a vessel, nor a supercargo an impost ?"
That a tax either on the transportation of goods or on
goods themselves while being transported must ultimately
be paid by the consumer is tco clear for argument. " When
this tax is laid on the transportation of the merchandise,
there is no room for doubt that, by the operation of wellknown laws, it must pass from the carrier to the thing carried, and, in the precise ratio of the statutory burden,
enhance their price in the market. The consumer must
pay the custom, whether it be placed on the goods or upon
their transportation. The result then is, that this imposition on the business of transportation, which, it is argued,
is constitutional, produces the same effect-neither more nor
less-upon the private business of the owner of the goods,
as would be produced by a direct tax on the goods themselves, which latter form of taxation would be undeniably
unconstitutional. This substantial identity in the results
would seem to favor strongly an inference of the substantial
identity in the causes producing them. The conclusion,
from this course of reasoning, therefore is, that if the trans*24

Howard, 169.

t 7 Id. 458.

°

CASE OF THE STATE FREIGHT TAX.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument against the tax.

portation of merchandise in transiafrom State to State can
be taxed by a State in the form of law now before this court,
the constitutional provision under consideration affords no
protection whatever to the owner of goods which are the
subjects of such transportation."*
The Supreme Court of Pennsylvania considers, however,
that the tax may lawfully be exacted as compensation for the
use -of works constructed under the eminent domain of the
State. But,
1. The rivers of Pennsylvania were not constructed under
the State power of eminent domain, and the tax imposed by
the statute on every ton of freight transported within the
territorial limits of Pennsylvania, by a steamboat company,
cannot be considered as a compensation for privilege of using
the public works of the State. The law applies alike to all
means of transportation, whether on the navigable rivers
passing through the State, the great lakes of the West, or
any line of canal or railroad. IF goods are laden at Olean,
in the State of New York, to be carried on the steamboats,
or any other boats of a transportation company, to New
Orleans, they may be taxed by the ton, so soon as the boat
with its freight crosses the line of Pennsylvania; and thus
our great rivers be no longer free to the commerce of all the
citizens of every State through which it passes.
2. The State has parted with the right to exact tolls for
the use of the railroads and canals owned by the canal and
railroad companies of Pennsylvania. The Philadelphia and
Reading Railroad Company, and not the State of Pennsylvania, has the right to charge toll for the use of its railroads.
The absence of an intention to exact a toll for the use of
artificial roads or water-courses when they imposed the tax
in controversy, is also made manifest by the fact that the
tax is not graduated by the length of transportation. A
ton of freight which passes but a few miles through the territory of Pennsylvania is taxed as much as a ton which has
been transported three hundred miles. The through freight
*Per

Beasley, 0. J., in Erie Railway Company v. New Jersey, ut supra.

Dec. 1872.]

CASE OF THE STATE FREIGHT TAX.

245

Argument against the tax.

of the Philadelphia, Wilmington and Baltimore, or of the
Lake Shore, or of the NVew York and Erie lines, all of them
very short roads, is taxed as heavily as that of the Pennsylvania Railroad, which traverses the whole length of Pennsylvania.
How then can the tax on transportation, levied by the act
in question, be treated as compensation for the use of artificial highways, and what advance towards a proper determination of this case is made by discussing the question of
the right of a State to demand toll for the use of the rail'oads
and canals which she owns? Once admit that a tax on
transportation within or through the territory of a State may
be sustained by treating it as a toll for the use of highways,
and there is no limit to the burdens which may be imposed
on interstate commerce. What proportion of the commerce by land between the States of this Union is not carried on by means of artificial roads? and where ordinary
county or State roads, the control of which has been retained'
by the Commonwealth, are used, the theory would be much
more plausible than in the case of railroads and canals constructed by companies.
Would the decision of this court in Crandall v. Nerada
have been in favor of the right of a State to tax passengers
in transit from her territory if it had been argmued that the
tax was a compensation for the use of the road on which
they were travelling?
III. The statute in question interferes with that freedom of
transit of goods and persons between one State and another which
must neeessarily exist under a political organization like ours.
The case of Crandallv. Nerada seems to settle this. It is
true that the tax there declared unconstitutional was a tax
on the passage of persons and not of property; but the
reasoning of the court is as applicable to the one case as to
the other; and in Woodruff v. Parham,*the rule laid down
in Crandallv. Nevada is spoken of as securing "ffreedom of
transit of goods and persons between one State and another."
* 8 Wallace, 138.

246

CASE OF THE STATE FREIGHT TAX.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in favor of the tax.

Mr. . Carroll Brewster, Attorney-General of Pennsylvania,
and Mr. Lewis IValn Smilh, contra:
-Before considering the points of law raised by the plaintifs in error, it is of importance to discern from the words
of the act the exact practical working of the tax in its execution.
First. It is an act to raise additional revenue, and the
mode of the collection of the tax is identical with the collection of the other taxes to which the Commonwealth looks
for nearly all her revenue.
Second. The tax is imposed on all the corporations in the
State, and is charged against each of them in proportion to
all the tons carried, withont any discrimination between
those carried exclusively within the State, or those intended
for transportation abroad.
Third. The company is allowed thirty days after the end
of each quarter in which to report the number of tons carried, and sixty days more in which to pay the tax settled, so
that the goods carried have all of them, before this tax
becomes due or payable, passed beyond the jurisdiction of
the State, if they were intended for shipment abroad, and
no claim or hen whatever has attached to them. It is the
franchise of the corporation which is liable for the non-payment of the tax.
Fourth. The tax, although familiarly called a "tonnage
tax," is, in actual results, a tax on the corporation, graded
by the amount of business it transacts in its province of
transporter; and if the term "tonnage tax" implies it is a
tax on a ton, it is erroneous, the 2000 pounds which go to
make up a Pennsylvania ton being merely a convenient
standard whereby to measure the business done by the corporation.
If such a tax be unconstitutional, it must be because it is
the exercise of a power expressly and directly prohibited to
the State by the Constitution of the United States. Every
presumption is in favor of its legality. It is a means, and
one of great importance, through which the State of Penn-

Dec. 1872.]

CASE OF THE STATE FREIGHT TAX.

247

Argument in favor of the tax.

sylvania seeks to raise the funds-necessary to the maintenance of the administration of the government of the
State. Taxation for such a purpose is the exercise of a high
and unquestioned privilege of a sovereign, and no far-drawn
analogy or dubious passage can be allowed to rob her of the
right which is absolutely necessary to her existence as a
Stdte-the right to raise revenue by taxation. It must ever
be remembered, in considering questions arising under our
complex system of government, that within its own sphere,
each government, that of the United States, and that of the
States, is sovereign. In exercising its power within that
sphere, its acts are governed only by its own pleasure. And
this view of the relation of the States to the iNational government is stated with great preciseness and force by this
court in the recent case of The Colleclor v. Day,* where the
Federal government sought to tax under its law, levying a
general income tax, the salary of a j udge of a State. Speaking of" the separate and independent condition of the States
in our complex system, as recognized by the Constitution,
and the existence of which," say the court, "is so indispensable, that without them the general government itself would
disappear from the family of nations," this court in the case
cited say:
"It would seem to follow as a reasonable, if not a necessary
consequence, that the means and instrumentalities employed
for carrying on the operations of their governments, for preserving their existence, and fulfilling the high and responsible
duties assigned to them in the Constitution, should be left
free and unimpaired; should not be liable to be crippled, much
less defeated, by the taxing power of another government,
which power acknowledges no limits but the will of the legislative body imposing the tax, and more especially those means
and instrumentalities which are the creation of their sovereign
and reserved rights. Without this power and the exercise of it,
we risk nothing in saying that no one of the States under the
form of government, guaranteed by the Constitution could long
preserve its existence."
* 11 Wallace, 113.

CASE OF THE STATE FREIGHT TAX.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in favor of the tax.
IS THEN THE STATUTE IN

QUESTION SUCH A REGULATION O

COMMERCE AS IS IN VIOLATION OF THE CONSTITUTION OF THE
UNITED STATES?

1. If it is a "regulation of commerce," the State of Pennsylvania has a right, under the clause referred to, to make such regulation, Congress not havingforbidden the same by legislation.
The clause which vests in Congress the power to regulate
commerce does not, ipso facto, take from the States the right
to also regulate commerce, provided that the regulations of
the latter do not come in conflict with those of the former.
If there be any conflict, it is conceded that the State law at
once falls. But in the present case no such question arises.
Congress has not passed any law regulating commerce between the States. There can, therefore, be no conflict with
a superior enactment, and the only question remaining is,
whether the power regulating commerce vested in Congress
is exclusive. It is submitted that there is no decision of this
court which can be said to so decide. Analogies may be
drawn, or the individual dicta of judges cited, but there is
no judicial decision which settles the question. On the other
hand, wherever the issue has been presented it has been
avoided, and declarations from the bench abound in all the
reports, disclaiming any intention of so deciding. On the
other hand, the opinions of a majority of the judges, taken.
from their decision, bear towards the doctrine, that until
Pongress sees fit to exercise the power vested in it, the
States have a right to regulate commerce, so far as the same
are local in their nature, and do not arrive to a National
rule.*
It is true that the view of the question favorable to the.
exclusiveness of Congressional power is sustained by the
decision of this court in the cases of Brown v. Maryland,
Gibbons v. Oqden,t and by the decision of a divided court in
the Passenger Gases.t But the case of Gibbons v. Ogden was
* Sturges v. Crowninshield, 4 Wheaton, 122, 192; Houston v. Moore,
5 Id. 1; License Cases, 5 Howard, 578; Cooley v. Port Wardens, 12 Id. 299;
Crandall v. Nevada, 6 Wallace, 85, and other cases.
$ 7 Howard, 416.
f" 9 Wheaton, 226.

Dec. 1872.]

CASE OF THE STATE FREIGHT TAX.

249

Argument in favor of the tax.

decided on the ground that the State grant of an exclusive
right to the waters of a navigable river was in conflict with
that branch of commerce as to which Congress has made
direct legislation, and being repugnant to it must give way.
Had the court been of the opinion that the grant was unconstitutional, merely because it was an attempt of a State
to regulate commerce, the decision would have been based
on that ground; but the court expressly avoided giving any
such an opinion. So far as the Passenger (Oses are concerned, the decision of the court was such as to greatly
weaken the opinion,.even had it been based exclusively on
the ground of the exclusiveness of the power of Congress.
However all this may be, the later cases of Gilman v. Phila-

delphia,* of linson x-. Lott,t and of Crandall v. Nevada, more
than balance whatever inclination the previous decisions
might have had.

Indeed, Gilman v. The City of Philadelphia is emphatic in
its recognition of the principle we contend for, if the meaning of the decision is rightly stated by Clifford, J., in a dissent which he made from it. He says:
"The precise doctrine advanced, as I understand the opinion,
is that Congress has not passed any act regulating the navigation of the river, and that inasmuch as there is no Federal
regulation upon the subject, the law of the State legislature
authorizing the erection of the bridge is a valid law, even if the
bridge be an obstruction to navigation, because the State law is
not in conflict with any act of Congress giving protection to the
otherwise paramount right of navigation."
Is there anything in the idea that a State can regulate
-interstate commerce, if Congress omits to do so, which is
inconsistent with the intent of the clause inserted in the
Constitution giving Congress the power to regulate commerce? We fail to see any such thing. At the time of the
adoption of the Constitution the commerce of the country
was burdened by the imposition of imposts and exposts by
the several States, and by the regulations of commerce im* 3 Wallace, 713.

t 8 Id. 160.

CASE OF THE STATE FREIGHT TAX.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in favor of the tax.

posed by them. The power to regulate commerce was vested
in Congress, so that at any time it could pass a law regulating commerce, so as to relieve it from all the burdens so
vexatious under the Confederation. That power was given
to Congress to exercise, should it see fit, and should the
exigencies of the occasion require. If, as Johnson, J., says,
in his opinion in Gibbons v. Ogden, which will doubtless be
relied on in reply, "all the laws bearing onl commerce dropped lifeless from the statute-book," it was not necessarily
because the power of regulating commerce had ceased to be
in the States, but because each State knew that if it persisted
in its impositions Congress would exercise the power, and
thus cancel its laws by the passage of one paramount. The
moment that the direful picture, drawn by the plaintiffs in
error, should be painted in experience, Congress could exercise its power and sweep all such State laws into utter nullity.
2. The tax is not such a regulation of commerce as to be included in the power given to Congress, supposing that power to be
exclusive.
In order that we may discover whether the act now alleged
to be unconstitutional is a "regulation of commerce," it is
necessary to see what is "commerce," and what amounts to
a " regulation." "Commerce," says TMarshall, C. J., in
Gi6bons v. Ogden, " is undoubtedly traffic; but it is something more. It is intercourse. It describes the commercial
intercourse between nations and parts of nations in all its
branches, and is regulated by prescribed rules for carrying on
that intercourse." And again he says: "It is the power to
regulate, that is, to prescribe the rules by which commerce,
is to be governed." This corresponds with the derivation
of the word "regulate," and furnishes us with the key to
what is meant by a regulation of commerce. "Regula, a
rule-Regulate, to adjust by rule: as, to regulate weights
and measures; to regulate the assize of bread; to regulate
trade."** We can, therefore, paraphrase the term " power
*

Webster.

Dec. 1872.]

CASE OF THE STATE FREIGHT TAX.

251

Argument in favor of the tax.

to regulate commerce" by the words, "power to prescribe
rules which govern the intercourse of one nation with
another." Can the tax in question be considered in any
way a rule to govern the intercourse of the people of Pennsylvania with those of other States ? Does it make a rule
to govern the shipment of a ton of coal passing out of the
State ? It clearly does not, for a ton of coal is shipped just
as freely, without either the knowledge or interference of
the State, as though there was no such law in force. It is
not until months after the ton has been shipped that the
State knows the fact: it is not until months later that the
tax is payable by the company. How then can this be a
rule to govern the intercourse ? And the same reasoning
applies to goods brought into the State from abroad. They
are delivered to the consignees, and the packages broken
and the goods sold before the railroad company is asked to
pay the tax in question. There is nothing, then, which connects the tax with the goods or the intercourse. There can
be no such thing as a rule where there is nothing which it
affects. It is essential to a regulation that it have something
to regulate. But here it neither regulates the carrier, nor
the shipper, nor the purchaser, nor the goods transported.
How then is it a regulation of commerce, when it does not
affect any of the things that go to make up commerce ? It
is only by sublimating the meaning of commerce into'the
naked word "intercourse," and then maintaining that this
tax inteiferes with "intercourse" by making the profits of
the transporter less, and consequently removing from him a
portion of the incentive to business, that this tax can be
construed to mean a regulation of commerce. But if the
rule of interpretation taken by this court is such, that anything is a regulation of commerce which tends to diminish
the profits of transportation, then there is no tax levied by a
State which is not within such a construction, and therefore
invalid, for all taxation interferes more or less with production and consumption. If the State cannot tax the receipts
of a transportation company in proportion to the number of
tons carried by it, and on which freight has been paid, then

252

CASE OF THE STATE FREIGHT TAX.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in favor of the tax.

it cannot tax the dividends declared, for the dividends are
a portion of these very receipts, and derived from the same
source, viz., received from traffic intended to be sent abroad.
Indeed, if the plaintiffs in error be right, it is difficult to see
what is left for the State to tax. It can lay no tax which
will not more or less affect commerce; more or less prevent consumption; and without consumption there can be
no commerce.
There must, therefore, be some point at which all will
concur, that the power of a State to impose a tax which may
affect commerce, by diminishing the profits of the transporter,
is valid; otherwise the States would be left without a revenue.
Now where does the power of Congress to regulate commerce
begin, and that of the State to impose a tax cease? The
decisions heretofore made by this court afford a solution to
this question. Taking the definition of a regulation of commerce which we have given, we find it to mean a rule to
govern intercourse. If then any act be passed by the State
amounting to a rule, which either directly affects the goods,
or the consignor or consignee, or the transportation of the
goods or their sale, it can be considered a regulation of commerce. But any act of a State which taxes the business of
any of its citizens, or franchise of any corporation, or their
profits, and only interferes with commerce so far as to check
consumption or diminish profits, does not amount to a rule
to govern intercourse, and is a legitimate exercise of the
rightful power of taxation never surrendered by the State to
the Federal government. Taking this, then, as a standard,
around which to classify the various decisions of the courts
bearing on this subject, let us examine the conclusions
arrived at. In Brown v. Maryland, relied on by the plaintiffs
in error, a license was imposed by Maryland on every foreign
importer, before he could break a package or sell anyforeign
goods. This was a rule which directly affected the sale of
the goods, for before the sale took place it was necessary to
comply with the rule, and the cost of the license was thus
made a prerequisite to engaging in foreign commerce. This
was held unconstitutional, because, by making a license a

Dec. 1872.]

CASE oF THE STATE FREIGr

T TAx.

253

Argument in favor of the tax.

prerequisite to sale, it clogged intercourse. It was a rule
which affected directly that portion of commerce which consisted in selling imported goods. Had the State of Maryland
required every merchant, at the end of every year, to pay a
tax on the amount of profits he derived from his business,
irrespective of what part of those profits were derived from
internal trade and what came from foreign trade, can it be
contended that anything in its decision leads to the inference
that such a tax would have been held unconstitutional? On
the contrary, we have a decision of this court in .Nathan v.
State of Loui'iana* directly opposite to the idea of the unconstitutionality of such a tax as that stated. In *thatcase the
State levied a tax on the business of foreign exchange brokers,
and it was held constitutional.
N~one of the decisions of this court have ever gone so far
as to interfere with State taxation, except in cases in which
the tax was in such a form as to primarily be a rule to
govern commerce, and only a tax in its secondary effects.
Applying this test, the case of Gibbons v. Ogden ceases to
bear against the right of the States to impose this tax. That
was nothing but a direct regulation of commerce by reason
of its operating on every steamboat which, in the course of
commerce, plied the Hudson River. It established a rule to
govern intercourse between the States, by giving the right
to that intercourse exclusively to the grantees of the State
of New York. So also.in Almy v. California,cited against us.
That was the imposition by California of a stamp duty on
every bill of lading of gold or silver exported. As the bill
of lading was an essential part of every consignment, such a
tax was equivalent to a direct tax on the gold or silver, the
payment of which was.necessary before the goods could become commodities of commerce. This was the establishment
of a ride to govern the shipment of the particular articles. It
was a tax only in its secondary effect: primarily it was an
imposition on commercial intercourse. It had not the usual
features of nearly every bondfide tax law, viz., a general im* 8 Howard, 73.

254

CASE OF THE STATE FREIGHT TAX.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in favor of the tax.

position of duties for the raising of revenue. It singled out
the articles principally exported, and by levying the tax on
them showed the intention was to clog commerce, by charging on it the cost of State expenses. It was, however, decided unconstitutional by this court, on the ground that it
was a duty on exports.
Crandallv. The State of Nevada, also cited against us, is a
striking illustration of this test. The law then in dispute
levied a tax on transportation companies, at a rate per capita
on every passenger leaving the State or passing through it.
In that case, as the State looked to the carrier after the passenger had passed beyond its limits and did not directly clog
commerce by establishing a rule to govern intercourse, the
court was not prepared to hold it such a regulation of commerce as was contemplated by the Constitution, and only
decided adversely to the law on principles entirely distinct
from all connection with its being a regulation of commerce.
In Steamship Co. v. Port Wardens,* a law of the State of
Louisiana taxing every vessel entering the port of New Orleans five dollars, without regard to any preference of service by officers of the State or pilots, was held unconstitutional. The effect of the tax was the same as though, before
any vessel could enter the port, she was compelled to pay
five dollars for the privilege of entering. This was a rule
to govern intercourse, and, of course, fell within the clause
referred to.
The Passenger Cases establish the same rule. They were
directly based on the ground that the law in question established a rule to govern intercourse.
Looking next at cases in which the laws of the various
States have been upheld by this court, it will be found that
many of them, although complained of as regulations of
commerce, were upheld as valid because they did not
amount to a rule to govern intercourse, but merely affected
intercourse secondarily, while their primary result was the
exercise of a power undeniably vested in the State. And
* 6 Wallace, 33.

Dec. 1872.]

CASE OF THE STATE FREIGHT TAX.

255

Argument in fivor of the tax.

first among these is the case of Willson v. The Blackbird
Creek Marsh Co.,* decided as early as 1829, in which Chief
Justice Marshall (who bad already written the opinion in
Brown v. Maryland and Gibbons v. Ogden) delivered the unanimous judgment of the court. In that case the bridge was
erected over a navigable stream, and entirely cut off all navigation. Yet it was held to be a constitutional exercise of a
power never surrendered by the State of Delaware. Although it is undisputed that the bridge interfered with intercourse, yet as it was primarily intended as a local improvement, and was an exercise of the right of the State, and its
interference with commerce was the secondary effect of its
erection, the act was lawful. It was not a rule to govern
intercourse. So also in City of New York v. Miln,t decided
eight years later. -In that case, while it cannot be doubted
that the imposition of penalties by New York against the
captains of vessels failing to report the number of passengers,
was a regulation of commerce, yet as it was not a rule to
govern intercourse in its primary effect, but was the exercise
of the police power of the State in the first place, and a regulation of commerce in the second place only, it was held
constitutional. In Groves v. Slaughler,T the question of the
constitutionality of an act forbidding the importation of
slaves from any State into Mississippi was considered and
the act sustained.' It was intended as a local police measure,
and while it might affect interstate commerce still it was
primarily an exercise of a right conceded to the State. But
stronger is the case of Gooley v. Board of Wardens,§ decided
in 1851. The law of Pennsylvania, imposing upon every
vessel entering the port of Philadelphia, which neglects or
refuses to take a pilot, a forfeit of one-half pilotage, to go
to the Society for the Relief of Disabled Pilots, was held
constitutional. "The power to regulate commerce includes
various subjects, upon some of which there should be a uniform rule, and upon others different rules in different localities. The power is exclusively in Congress in the former,
* 2 Peters, 245.

t 11 Id. 104.

$ 15 Id. 449.

12 Howard, 299.

CASE OF THE STATE FREIGHT TAX.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in favor of the tax.

but not so in the latter." The power to regulate pilots is a
regulation of commerce, but as the law was primarily local
in its operations, and intended, in good faith, to be an exercise of an undoubted right of the State, its secondary effect
on commerce did not make it illegal, and the decision is ap-o
proved in Crandall v. Nevada, decided over sixteen years
later. But still more decided is Gilman v. Philadelphia, decided in 1865, and to which we have already referred.*
This settled the right of a State to erect a bridge over a
navigable river, even if it does interfere with navigation,
provided Congress has not legislated on the subject, and
that if the act of a State does not amount to a rule to goQvern
intercourse, it may be lawfully enacted, even if it does interfere with commerce. The statement of the distinction is
clearly drawn in the words of Swayne, J.; who delivered the
opinion. He says:
"The States may exercise concurrent power in all cases but
three: 1st. Where the power is lodged exclusively in the Federal Constitution. 2d. Where it is given to the United States
and prohibited to the States. 3d. Where, from the nature and
subjects of the power, it must necessarily be exercised by the
Federal government exclusively."
The power here in question does not fill within either of
these exceptions. It is no objection to distinct substantive
powers that they may be exercised upon the same subject
within their respective boundaries. In some instances their
action becomes blended, in some the action of the State
governments displaces the action of the Nation; in others
the action of the State is void, because it seeks to reach objects beyond the limits of State authority.
The distinction between interference with commerce and
a regulation of commerce is clearly recognized by the court
in this case, and the case furnishes an answer to the complaint that allowing the States power to interfere with interstate commerce would lead to evils in traffic.
From the various recent decisions of the court, we think
* Supra, p. 249.

Dec. 1872.]

CASE OF THE STATE FREIGHT TAX.

257

Argument in favor of the tax.

then that it mdy be considered that, whatever may have
been the tenor of the earlier cases, it is now settled that
there are many forms of regulations which affect commerce
which it is within the powers of the States to make, not excluding the cases of bridges, pilots, quarantine and police
measures, all of which have been always recognized as being

vested in the States as well as Congress. That there also
belongs to the States the right to pass laws which are in exercise of the reserved rights of the States, even. if they be
regulations of commerce, provided that the regulation be
local in its nature and does not amount to a national rule,
and one which uniformly affects the whole country.
Does the tax now under discussion "institute a regulation
of commerce of a national character," or one which "has a
uniform operation over the whole country ?" Surely the
dealing between the Reading Railroad and the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania as to the taxes on ,ts business of
shipping coal from the mines to Port Richmond, in Philadelphia, is not a national regulation. But a distinct argument of the proposition is fortunately rendered unnecessary
by the decision in Crandall v. State of .Nevada. It was there
held that the tax under dispute was not such a one as to
come in conflict with the constitutional provision. Now the
tax in that case was similar in its operation to the one at
present before the court, with the exception that the tax in
the Nevada case bore much more directly on the person
transported than this one does on the goods carried, and
was also a discrimination against a particular class of traffic.
Unlike the Nevada tax, this is uniform in its operation on
all classes and makes no discrimination. The Nevada tax
and the tax in Pennsylvania present a curious resemblance,
and differ only in that the former one is much stronger in
its bearing against the constitutional provision than the
latter. Yet this court admitted in that case, that as the tax
was not a uniform rule of the whole country, or national in
its character, it was not in conflict with the constitutional
restriction, Congress having failed to legislate upon the subject. There -has been no act of Congress since passed which
vOL. xv.

17

CASE OF THE STATE FREIGHT TAX.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in favor of the tax.

bears upon the subject. If, then, the tax imposed in 1867
was not unconstitutional, how can the one now before the
court be so, when it is a counterpart of the former, so far as
its relations to transportation are concerned?
3. The law in question is an exercise of the power of taxation
reserved to the States under the Constitution, is equal in its operation, bonO fide in its character,making no discrimination against
von-residents, and is levied on the franchise of every corporationin
proportion to its business.
A State can levy a tax on the franchises of its own corporations. This has been repeatedly decided. The State of
Pennsylvania contends that under the undeniable right to
tax the franchises of her citizens she has seen fit to levy this
tax. The tax is payable by the company in proportion to
the amount of freight carried. Now, that this is a tax on
the franchise of the company is apparent, when it is remembered that all of the receipfs of the great majority of railroads in Pennsylvania are derived from freight. In the case
of the Reading Railroad Company, the now plaintiff in error,
their business is almost exclusively a transportation business,
and the value of their franchises to themselves can be graded
exactly by the amount of freight carried, for almost all their
receipts are derived from freight. Can it be successfully
contended that the Commonwealth could not have charged
a tax on the income of this company at any rate she pleased?
Yet the income is derived exclusively from freight. Why,
then, can she not tax the company by amount of freight carried, at so much per 1000 pounds, as well as at so much on
each dollar of income received from carrying that freight.
If this company got one dollar from every 2000 pounds of
freight carried, could not the State levy a tax of two cents
on every dollar of income, before there should be any dividend? If she could, why can she not measure the business
of the company by the amount of freight, and not by the
amount of receipts, and lay a tax on the franchise of the
company of two cents on each 2000 pounds?
The practical effect of the tax in question is to make its

Dec. 1872.]

CASE OF THE STATE FREIGHT

TAx.

259

Argument in favor of the tax.

amount vary with the amount of the freight of the different
transporting companies, and grades the proportion which
each shall pay to the State in accordance with the value
which the franchises granted to each by the State, have been
to the corporation during the period covered by the tax.
Not only is this a proper exercise of the power of taxation,
but it is in the form which has been especially commended
by this court. The question of taxation, according to the
amount of business done by a corporation, came before the
court in Society for Savings v. Coile. That was a tax levied
on the gross deposits of a saving bank, in its hands on a certain day. It was contended that the United States securities
held by it could not be thus taxable, as they were exempt
from State taxation. The court held such a tax to be on the
franchise of the corporation, and sustained it. The court
said:
"Different modes of taxation are adopted in different States.
Fixed sums are in some instances required to be annually paid
into the treasury of the State, and in others a prescribed percentage is levied on the stock, assets, or property, owned or held
by the corporation, while in others the sum required to be paid
is left indefinite, to be ascertained in some mode by the amount
of business which the corporation shall transact within a defined
period. Experience shows that the latter mode is better calculated
to effect justice among the corporationsrequired to contribute to the
public burdens than any other which has been devised, as its tendency
is to graduatethe required contributionto the value of the privileges
granted, and to the extent of their exercise."

The business of transportation is as much the business of
the railroad companies, as is that of receiving deposits the
business of the savings bank. If,
then, a tax on the total
amount of deposits at a certain day, is a tax on the franchise,
why is not a tax on the total amount of freight carried, a like
tax on franchise? And the court held not only that such
a tax was legal, but justly commended it as the most equitable that could be devised.
* 6 Wallace, 608; and see Provident Institution v. Massachusetts, tb. 623.

CASE OV THE STATE FREIGHT TAX.

[Sup.-Ct.

Argument in favor of the tax.

But a stronger argument in favor of the State is found in
the fact that it is a bondfide tax, levied by her to raise revenue
in an equitable manner from the corporations which owe their
existence to her dominion. The tax is levied upon every ton
of goods carried, whether they be shipped by a citizen of
Pennsylvania, of New Jersey, or any other State. The burdens fall equally heavily on all classes of business, and do
not charge upon the foreign citizens a penny more than is
charged upon our own. It may be that if a tax is illegal as
levied against a citizen of another State, it cannot be made
legal by levying it against a citizen of Pennsylvania. But
the fallacy of the argument is found in confounding the cause
and effect. It is not because it is a tax law that the act can
be complained of. It is because it amounts to a regulation
of commerce; and when we show that it does not amount to
a regulation of commerce, but is a borfide tax law, we show
that it is constitutional. It is fallacious to start with the
premise that it is illegal as to certain parties. The fact that
there is no discrimination is evidence of good faith on the
part of the State. It removes it from any suspicion of unfairness, and makes the plaintiff come here, not as injured
parties seeking protection, but as a corporation seeking to
escape from paying her share of a tax which must be borne
by all its fellow-corporations. The effect of the tax, so far
as traffic is concerned, is well stated in the opinion of the
Supreme Court of Pennsylvania. It says:
"It is evident that it does not matter whence or whither these
tons travel, so that there be no discrimination to forbid or to
burden their entrance into or exit from the State; and being a
tax on the benefit and the privilege of transportation on works
constructed for this end, it bears equally on all. Nor can it

make any difference, that the company is allowed to add this
tax on its franchises to the tolls or charges on the freight itself.
It is the owner of the freight who enjoys both the privilege and
the facility this valuable franchise affords, and whose toll could
be increased by the State to the same extent if the works were
in her hands. It falls upon those who use the road, not because
it is aregulation of commerce, but because it is a subject of in-

Dec. 1872.]

CASE OF THE STATE FREIGHT TAX.

261

Argument in favor of the tax.
ternal regulation, to which he is bound to contribute. There is
in fact and authority, a substantial distinction between an act
which simply operates as a burden on commerce and one which
attempts to regulate it. No one can doubt the power of a State
to tax her own coal, iron, lumber, grain, and other products of
her mines and soil, and the persons and occupations of those
engaged in their production or their transportation, and yet
these burdens eventually fall on those who consume them,
whether they live in or out of the State. Yet clearly such taxation is no regulation of commerce. The State in laying a common tax on all such articles is not bound and cannot be presumed to know where they will be consumed, nor to inquire
the destination of those who traffic in or transport them. If
she do not discriminate between that which goes out or comes
in and that which remains within, it cannot be said that she
in any sense attempts to regulate commerce with other States,
or to impose a duty on imports or exports. In principle, where
there is no discrimination, there is no difference between a tax
on a transporter, whether in gross or measured by the ton he
carries, and a tax on a farmer, the manufacturer, the miner, the
merchant, or the broker, measured by the business he does. Yet
all the impositions are burdens which reach the consumer
wherever he lives. The fallacy of the argument which insists
that the burdens of internal transportation shall not be shared
by the distant consumer, on the ground that it is an import or
export duty, or a regulation of commerce, is seen in the fact that
to exempt articles going out of the State, would be to discriminate in favor of the foreign and against the domestic consumer.
Coal carried from the mines to Richmond, on the Delaware, and
there disposed of, is conceded to be liable to the tax, but if intended to be sent forward to places without the State, it is said
not to be liable; what is this but to impose a tax on our own
citizens, which those beyond the State are not to bear? Pennsylvanians are citizens of the same Union, and entitled to its
equal protection against such discrimination."
The argument is weighty. A resident of Camden, opposite Philadelphia, can have coal shipped to him from the
mines, and cannot be taxed. A resident of Philadelphia
must pay the tax. Hence it would follow that if the con-

CASE OF TJIE STATE FREIGHT TAX.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in favor of the tax.

struction contended for by the plaintiffs in error be correct,
the citizens of Philadelphia, whose State has chartered the
Reading Railroad, whose capital is to a large extent involved
in it, whose authorities protect its mines, its property, and
grant to it its franchise, could be underbid in their own
market by a citizen of New Jersey, merely because he was a
citizen of that State, which has nothing whatevei- to do with
the continuance, existence, or safety of either the corporation or its property. Pennsylvania coal, from Pennsylvania
mines, transported by a Pennsylvania company, could be
bought in Camden cheaper than in Pennsylvania. The constitution never intended such a discrimination by a State
against its own citizens. In Padelford v. Savannah,* the
court said:
"It is not said in Brown v. Maryland, that the State must discriminate in favor of the foreigner, and not tax him when she
taxes her own citizens. Now, what was the object of the prohibition? In a word, was its object to put foreigners in a better
condition than natives? We know that the object was not to
put citizens of another State in that better condition."
This point has already had the attention of this' court
in Woodruff v. Parham.t A tax was there levied on the gross
sales at auction of auctioneers in Mobile, Alabama. It was
proved that a large amount of the sales were of packages,
unbrokefi, which came from Georgia. It was contended
that a tax could not be levied by Alabama on these consignments. The court upheld the tax, and clearly showed that
it was never intended by the constitution to discriminate
against a citizen of a State and in favor of citizens of other
States. Miller, J., says:
"The case of Brown v. M11aryland, as we have already said,
arose out of a statute of that State, taxing by way of discrimination, importers who sold, by wholesale, foreign goods."
But the view of the court on the subject of discrimination
is yet more decidedly stated in Hinson v. Loll. In that case
*14 Georgia, 438.

t[ 8 "Wallace, 123.

Dec. 1872.]

OASE OF THE STATE FREIGHT TAX.

263

Argument in favor of the tax.

Georgia levied a tax of fifty cents on each gallon of whisky
brought into the State from a sister State for sale and sold
in the original cask. She, also, by the same act, levied a
like tax of fifty cents on every gallon of whisky manufactured and sold in the State. The first she collected as a tax,
the latter as a license. When the section imposing the tax
on imported liquors came before the court, Miller, J., said:
"As the act institutes no legislation which discriminates
against the products of sister States, but merely subjects them
to the same rate of taxation which similar articles pay that are
manufactured within the State, we do not see in it an attempt
to regulate commerce, but an appropriate and legitimate exercise of the taxing power of the State."
So, also, in the present case. As the tax does not discriminate against citizens of other States, but merely charges
all alike, it is not an attempt to regulate commerce, but is an
exercise of the taxing power of the State.
And it is a fact worthy of note, that all the research of
the learned counsel for the plaintiff in error has failed to
discover a single case in which this court has overturned a
State tax law, which is bonO fide in its provisions, which
contains no covert attempt to regulate commerce, but enacts,
without discrimination, a tax alike for residents or non-residents, in proportion to the business carried on under the
protection of the State which imposes the tax.
If the proposition of the plaintiff in error be correct, and
the goods shipped to points outside the State be free from
taxation, because the tax then would be to regulate commerce, why cannot the citizens of Pennsylvania object to
paying any tax on their goods, on the ground that by freeing the non-resident and charging the resident, there is an
unjust discrimination against the resident? All are citizens
of one common Union, all are entitled to the same position
by the Constitution of the United States. Why, then, should
the Pennsylvanian be charged two cents when the citizen
of New Jersey is exempt? Does not the State, by such a
discrimination, regulate commerce, by putting the resident

264

CASE OF THE STATE FREIGHT TAX.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in favor of the tax.

at a disadvantage, and has he not a like right to claim protection ? Such a defence to taxation, if good, would bankrupt the Commonwealth, by depriving her of all her revenue.
4. This is a tax imposed by the State as compensation for the
use of artificial works created by her authority, and in exercise of
her rigitd of eminent domain.
It cannot be denied that the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, had she seen fit, could have refused to allow the
Reading Railroad to be built. It owes its existence entirely
to her pleasure. No consideration of interstate traffic could
have availed anything so far as to compel her to authorize
its erection. And she may still destroy the Reading Railroad, and forfeit its franchises, unless restrained by the
rights of the corporation. There is nothing in the shape of
an authority vested in the United States courts which could
for a moment restrain her from, to-morrow, tearing up every
rail between Reading and Philadelphia. It,then, the power
to regulate commerce vested in Congress, is not such a
power as to compel the building of the road, or to prevent
its destruction wbn the State sees fit, how can it be that
the power to regulate commerce is such as to prevent
the State charging the parties using the road? If she can
refuse to create, if she can destroy, why can she not tax for
the existence? A distinction between a tax and a regulation of commerce has been frequently recognized by this
court.*
This view is thus ably stated in the opinion of the Supreme
Court of Pennsylvania:
"Among the most important reserved State rights, and one
directly connected with the question before us, is that of eminent
domain. This undoubted power has been exercised in the improvement of navigable streams, and in building and establishing ferries over them, and in the construction of roads, turnpikes, canals, and railroads; and has been repeatedly recognized
in authoritative decisions. Under this invaluable power the
* Passenger Cases, 7 Howard, 402, McLean, J.; 479, Taney, 0. J.; Veazie

v.Moor, 14 Howard, 568.

Dec. 1872.]

CASE OF THE STATE FREIGHT TAX.

265

Argument in favor of the tax.
States have built up a network of railways and canals, and have
improved natural channels through which the commerce of the
whole Union is coursing, like the life-blood throughout the
natural system. This was not done under any supposed authority to regulate interstate commerce, or to aid in the execution
of the Federal power over commerce between the States; but
was done under the unquestioned power of the State to improve
her own resources, and to regulate her internal affairs. Yet,
does any one doubt the grand and beneficial impulse given to
interstate commerce by this exercise, of State power? And
who can doubt that the State has a right to compensation for
the expenditure of her means and the benefit she has conferred
on all who use her works? They were built by herself or under
her franchises, and the right to exact tolls, charges, and fares
for their use, is a necessary consequence of her power to construct them. Nor does it make any difference what form her
compensation takes-whether that of a direct charge on the
tonnage using the road, or that of a tax on the corporations who
use her franchises-her right is to exact the compensation from
those who use her works. To gainsay this is to deny her right
of eminent domain, and her power to legislate upon her internal
affairs and the creations of her own sovereignty. If these works
were, as once some of them were, in her own hands, what provision in the Federal Constitution would forbid her to increase
her revenue by an increase of the charge of transportation over
them? When in the hands of creatures exercising her franchises,
what clause in any instrument forbids her to tax the franchises,
and authorize the tax to be added to the pre-existing tolls and
charges? To legislate once, is not to exhaust her power over
the subject of tolls or charges, but to legislate at all is to assert
her power. Whether it be called a toll or tax, what is this but
to increase a charge which she can rightfully demand? The
right to demand any toll or charge upon all articles transported,
or fares for passage, is derived from her grant, and the power
to determine their extent depends upon her discretion. It is a
right of which she cannot be deprived, and of which she is the
only judge, unless, perhaps, the power should be so unreasonable and oppressively exercised, as to afford evidence of a design,
by a fraudulent use of the power, to interdict or ruinously affect
the commerce of other States. To say, because her citizens engage in mining for an extraterritorial market, or because mer-

266

CASE OF THE STATE FREIGHT TAX.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument in favor of the tax.

ehandise may pass over these works out of or into the State,
that to exact tolls and charges for the minerals or merchandise
transported over them, or to tax the franchises of those engaged
in the work, is a regulation of commerce, is to confound all just
distinctions, and to destroy the most sacred right of a State.
Her power to levy revenue from transportation over these
works may be seen in her power over the works themselves.
If compensation were denied her by way of revenue, who can
dispute her power to suffer her own works to fhll into decay and
ruin; or, when unfettered by a charter contract, to repeal the
charters under which they were built? Interstate commerce
might suffer, but what power could control th6 act? Theft, on
what principle is it she cannot levy a tax on these instrumentalities, for the privileges granted, because the products carried
are destined for points without, or from without to points
within the State ? It is carriage or destination which gives the
right of toll, tax, or charge. It is not levied on them because
the products go out or come in, but because they have the privilege and the benefit of transportation."
To this argument the plaintiffs, referring to it in anticipation, reply,* "that the rivers of Pennsylvania are not constructed by the State power of eminent domain," and that a
tax is imposed on every ton transported within the territorial limits of Pennsylvania by every steamboat.
To this we rejoin, that all of the rivers in Pennsylvania
(with the possible exception of a small part of the Alleghany)
are, for the purpose of transportation, artificial highways.
The Schuylkill, Susquehanna, and Lehigh, are all of them
navigable only by reason of artificial works created at great
expense, and that the evident intention of the act, as well as
its practical workings, all show that it is only on companies
owning artificial works, that the charge is'to be made. The
words of the act are too clear on the subject for argument.
They read, that the "officers of every railroad company,
steamboat company, canal company, and slack-water navigation company, and all other companies now or hereafter
doing business in this State, and upon whose woRKs freight
* Suza, p. 245.

Dec. 1872.]

CASE OF THE STATE FREIGHT TAX.

267

Reply.

may be transported, whether by such company or by individuals, and whether such company shall receive compensation for transportation, for transportation and toll, or shall
receive toll only, shall be," &c. It will thus be seen that it
is only on companies having works that the tax is charged.
lReply. It is argued for the State of Pennsylvania that, if
the tax in question be a regulation of interstate commerce,
it is not such a regulation as Congress alone can make ; and that
until Congress has legislated on the subject, the State legislation is
valid.
When we consider the circumstances which induced the
people of the United States to confer upon Congress the
power to regulate commerce among the several States,
the evils that existed and were intended to be avoided, and
the plain import of the words used in the Constitution itself,
the argument is hard to maintain.
What benefit could have been expected from investing
Congress with the power to regulate interstate commerce,
if the States themselves were to retain the power-the exercise of which had proved so vexatious? It could not have
been supposed that uniformity and system would be produced by introducing a new element of discord. If the regulations established by thirteen distinct legislatures were
found to be inconvenient and oppressive, the interference
of another legislature would seem to have been a most unfortunate plan of relief. The difficulty is not obviated by
referring to the supremacy of the acts of Congress when
constitutionally enacted. Admit that a State regulation of
commerce must fall when it comes in conflict with a Federal
regulation, yet it cannot be supposed that Congress was ex-

pected to adopt a system of commercial regulation which
would anticipate and preclude every possible exercise of
State power on the subject. Johnson, J., in his concurring
opinion in Gibbons v. Ogden,* says:
"The history of the times will, therefore, sustain the opinion
* 9 Wheaton, 226.

268

CASE OF THE STATE

FREIGHT

TAx.

[Sup. Ct.

:Reply.

that the grant of power over commerce, if intended to be commensurate with the evils existing and the purpose of remedying
these evils, could only be commensurate with the power of the
States over the subject. And this opinion is supported by a very
remarkable evidence of the general understanding of the whole
American people when the grant was made. There is not a State
in the Union in which there did not, at that time, exist a variety
of commercial regulations, concerning which it is too much to
suppose that the whole ground covered by these regulations was
immediately assumed by actual legislation under the authority
of the Union. But where was the existing statute on this subject that a State attempted to execute? or by what State was it
thought necessary to repeal these statutes? By common consent
these laws dropped lifeless from their statute-books for want of
the restraining power that had been relinquished to Congress."
It is true that, in the case just referred to, the decision of
the court was rested upon the ground that the law of New
York, which gave to Livingston and Fulton the exilusive
right to navigate the waters of the State of New York, was
in conflict with the laws of the United States providing for
vessels to carry on the coasting trade; and this was all that
it was necessary to decide. But the following extract, from
the opinion of Marshall, C. J., by whom the opinion of the
court was delivered, shows that the concurrent power of the
States to regulate commerce was by no means recognized:
"It has been contended by the counsel for the appellant, that,
as the word 'to regulate' implies in its nature full power over
the thing to be regulated, it excludes necessarily the action of
all others that would perform the same operation on the same
thing. That regulation is designed for the entire result, applying to those parts which remain as they were, as well as to those
which are altered. It produces a uniform whole, which is as
much disturbed and deranged by changing what the regulating
power designs to have introduced, as that on which it has operated. There is great force in the argument, and the court is not
satisfied that it has been refuted."
And again, it is said by the same eminent judge; that
"When each government (State or Federal) exercises the

Dec. 1872.]

CASE oF THE STATE FREIGHT TAX.

269

Reply.

power of taxation, neither is exercising the power of the other.
But when a State proceeds to regulate commerce with foreign
nations, or among the several States, it is exercising the very
power that is granted Congress, and is doing the very thing
which Congress is authorized to do. There is no analogy, then,
between the power of taxation and the power of regulating
commerce."

So Mr. Justice Grier said in Norris v. The City of.Boston,*
(one of the Passenger Cases),
"Congress has regulated commerce and intercourse with foreign nations and between the several States, by willing that it
shall be free; and itis therefore not left to the discretion of each
State in the Union, either to refuse a right of passage to persons
or property through her territory, or to exact a duty for permission to exercise it."
The idea that both Congress and the State governments
may possess and exercise the right to regulate interstate
commerce is as anomalous as that of the power to direct the
movement of an army being lodged in several commanders
at the same time.
The power to regulate commerce among the several States
is given to Congress in the same clause and in the same
words by which the power to regulate commerce with foreign nations is given; and any argument against the exclusiveness of this power in the one case must equally be applicable to the other. It is impossible to suggest any distinction.
The grant in each case was made in the same language and
under the same circumstances. Yet who would now contend that the State of Pennsylvania can regulate its commerce with Great Britain?
It is not proposed to examine the various cases in which
the extent of the jurisdiction of Congress over foreign and
interstate commerce, has been discussed by the judges of
the Supreme Court of the United States. There has been
conflict of opinion on the subject. In the opinion of McLean,
J., in Smith v. Turnert (Passenger Case), will be found a re• 7 Howard, 464.

fj 1b., 393,

CASE OF THE STATE FREIGHT TAX.

[Sup. Ct.

Reply.

view of the previous decisions and opinions on this point.
The learned judge asserts most emphatically the exclusiveness of the jurisdiction of Congress. To the same effect is
the opinion of Wayne, J., in the same case, p. 410. In the
course of his opinion, Judge Wayne gives a statement of the
circumstances under which the case of The City of New
York v. Jlliln,* was decided. On the question, whether the
power of Congress to regulate foreign or interstate commerce in all cases and under all circumstances is exclusive,
however conflicting these opinions, it may safely be stated
that nothing can be found in the reported decisions of this
tribunal to raise a doubt as to the unconstitutionality of any
attempt on the part of the State governments to interfere
with the free exchange, between the several States, of all
articles that can be made the subjects of commerce, where
such exchange is not in conflict with regulations established
for sanitary or police purposes.
The distinction suggested by the judge who delivered the
opinion of the majority of the court, in Cooley v. The Board
of Wardens,t that "whatever subjects of this power are in
their nature national, or admit only of one uniform system
or plan of regulation, may justly be said to be of such a nature as to require exclusive legislation by Congress," if applied to the present case would seem to conclude the question. The right of passage for persons or goods through,
from, or into the several States of the Union, is one of national importance, and especially a fit subject for national
regulations, and it has been regulated by being left free and
untrammelled. Whether the distinction referred to is to
be considered as authoritatively established, may well be
doubted. It appears to have commanded the assent of the
majority of the court in the case in which it was announced,
"andto have led to a decision in favor of the validity of our
Pennsylvania pilot laws, although they were admitted to
be regulations of commerce. But in the case of The Steamship Company v. Port Wardensj"(which the other side seek
*11 :Peters, 102.

e 12 Howard, 311.

$6 Wallace, 81.

Dec. 1872.]

CASE OF THE STATE FREIGHT TAX.

271

Opinion of the court.

to evade, but a decision which was approved in Crandallv.
-ecada, and Hinson v. Loll,* on which they rejy), we find it
decided that

"A statute of a State enacting that the masters and wardens
of a port within it should be entitled to demand and receive, in
addition to other fees, the sum of five dollars, whether called
.out to perform any service or not, for every vessel arriving in
that port, is a regulation of commerce within the meaning of
the Constitution, and also a duty on tonnage, and is unconstitutional and void;"

and the reasoning o-A which this decision is based seems
quite inconsistent with the theory that the States have any
concurrent power to regulate interstate commerce, except so
far as it may be incidentally affected by quarantine or other
like provisions.
Mr. Justice STRONG delivered the opinion of the court.
'We are called upon, in this case, to review a judgment of
the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, affirming the validity
of a statute of the State, which the plaintiffs in error allege
to be repugnant to the Federal Constitution.
The case presents the question whether the statute in
question,-so far as it imposes a tax upon freight taken up
within the State and carried out of it, or taken up outside
the State and delivered within it, or, in different words,
upon all freight other than that taken up and delivered
within the State,-is not repugnant to the provision of the
Constitution of the United States which ordains "that Con•gress shall have power to regulate commerce with foreign
nations and among the several States," or in conflict with
the provision that "no State shall, without the consent of
Congress, lay any imposts or duties on imports or exports,
except what may be absolutely necessary for executing its
inspection laws."
The question is a grave one. It calls upon us to trace the
* 8 Wallace, 152.

272

CASE OF THE STATE FREIGHT

TAx.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

line, always difficult to be traced, between the limits of State
sovereignty in imposing taxation, and the power and duty
of the Federal government to protect and regulate interstate commerce. While, upon the one hand, it is of the
utmost importance that the States should possess the power
to raise revenue for all the purposes of a State government,
by any means, and in any manner not inconsistent with the
powers which the people of the States have conferred upon
the General Government, it is equally important that the domain of the latter should be preserved free from invasion,
and that no State legislation should be sustained which defeats the avowed purposes of the Federal Conltitution, or
which assumes to regulate, or control subjects committed by
that Constitution exclusively to the regulation of Congress.
Before proceeding, however, to a consideration of the di-

rect questiolu whether the statute is in direct conflict with
any provision of the Constitution of the United States, it is
necessary to have a clear apprehension of the subject and
the nature of the tax imposed by it. It has repeatedly been
held that the constitutionality, or unconstitutionality of a

State tax is to be determined, not by the form or agency
through which it is to be collected, but by the subject upon
which the burden is laid. This was decided in the cases of
Bank of Commerce v. New York City,* in The Bank Tax Oise,t
Society for Savings v. Coite,t and Provident Bank v. Massachusetts.§ In all these cases it appeared that the bank was required by the statute to pay the tax, but the decisions turned
upon the question, what was the subject of the tax, upon
what did the burden really rest, not upon the question from
whom the State exacted payment into its treasury. ience,
where it appeared that the ultimate burden rested upon the
property of the bank invested in United States securities, it
was held unconstitutional, but where it rested upon the
franchise of the bank, it was sustained.
Upon what, then, is the tax imposed by the act of August
25th, 1864, to be considered as laid ? Where does the sub* 2 Black, 620.

t 2 Wallace, 200.

$ 6 Id. 594.

Ib. 611.

Dec. 1872.]

CASE oF THE STATE FREIGHT TAX.

273

Opinion of the court.

stantial burden rest? Very plainly it was not intended to
be, nor is it in fact, a tax upon the franchise of the carrying
companies, or upon their property, or upqn their business
measured by the number of tons of freight carried. On the
contrary, it is expressly laid upon the freight carried. The
companies are required to pay to the State treasurer for the
use of the Commonwealth, "on each two thousand pounds
of freight so carried," a tax at the specified rates. And this
tax is- not proportioned to the business done in transportation. It is the same whether the freight be moved one mile
or three hundred. If freight be put upon a road and carried
at all, tax is to be paid upon it, the amount of the tax being
determined by the character of the freight. And when it is
observed that the act provides "where the same freight
shall be carried over and upon different but continuous lines,
said freight shall be chargeable with tax as if it had been
carried upon one line, and the whole tax shall be paid by
such one of said companies as the State treasurer may select
and notify thereof," no room is left for doubt. This provision demonstrates that the tax has no reference to the
business of the companies. In the case of connected lines
thousands of tons may be carried over the line of one company without any liability of that company to pay the tax.
The State treasurer is to decide which of several shall pay
the whole. There is still another provision in the act which
shows that the burden of the tax was not intended to be imposed upon the companies designated by it, neither upon
their franchises, their property, or their business. The provision is as follows: "Corporations whose lines of improvements are used by others for the transportation of freight,
and whose only earnings arise from tolls charged for such
use, are authorized to add the tax hereby imposed to said
tolls, and to collect the same therewith." Evidently this
contemplates a liability for the tax beyond that of the company required to pay it into the treasury, and it authorizes
the burden to be laid upon the freight carried, in exemption
of the corporation owning the roadway. It carries the tax
over and beyond the carrier to the thing carried. ImproveVOL. xv.

18

CASE OF THE STATE FREIGHT TAX.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

ment companies, not themselves authorized to act as carriers,
but having only power to construct and maintain road'ways,
charging tolls for the use thereof, are generally limited by
their charters in 'the rates of toll they are allowed to charge.
Hence the right to increase the tolls to the extent of the tax
was given them in order that the tax might come from the
freight transported, and not from the treasury of the companies. It required no such grant to companies which not
only own their roadway but have the right to transport
thereon. Though the tolls they may exact are limited, their
charges for carriage are not. They can, therefore, add the
tax to the charge for transportation without further authority.* In view of these provisions of the statute it is impossible to escape from the conviction that the burden of the
tax rests upon the freight transported, or upon the consignor
or consignee of the freight (imposed because the freight is
transported), and that the company authorized to collect the
tax and required to pay it into the State treasury is, in effect,
only a tax-gatherer. The practical operation of the law has
been well illustrated by anothert when commenting upon a
statute of the State of Delaware very similar to the one now
under consideration. lie said, "The position of the carrier
under this law is substantially that of one to whom public
taxes ar6 farmed out-who undertakes by contract to advance to the government a required revenue with power by
suit or distress to collect a like amount out of those upon
whom the tax is laid. The only imaginable difference is,
that, in the case of taxes farmed out, the obligation to account to the government is voluntarily assumed by contract
and not imposed by law, as upon the carrier under this act;
also, that different 'means are provided for raising the tax
out of those ultimately chargeable with it."
Considering it, then, as manifest that the tax demanded
by the act is imposed, not upon the company, but upon the
* Vide Boyle v. The Reading Railroad Company, 54 Pennsylvania State,
310; Cumberland Valley Railroad Co.'s Appeal, 62 Id. 218.
j- Chancellor Bates in Clarke v. Philadelphia, Wilmington, and Baltimore
Railroad Co.

Dec. 1872.]

CASE OP THE STATE FREIGHT

TAX.

275

Opinion of the court.

freight carried, and because carried, we proceed to inquire
whether, so far as it affects commodities transported through
the State, or from points without the State to points within
it, or from points within the State to points without it, the
act is a .regulation of interstate commerce. Beyond all
question the transportation of freight, or of the subjects of
commerce, for the purpose of exchange or sale, is a constituent of commerce itself. This has never been doubted,
and probably the transportation of articles of trade from one
State to another was the prominent idea in the minds of the
framers of the Constitution, when to Congress was committed the power to regulate commerce among the several
States. A power to prevent embarrassing restrictions by any
State was the thing desired. The power was given by the
same words and in the same clause by which was conferred
power to regulate commerce with foreign nations. It would
be absurd to suppose that the transmission of the subjects
of trade from the State to the buyer, or from the place of
production to the market, was not contemplated, for without that there could be no consummated trade either with
foreign nations or among the States. In his work on the
Constitution,* Judge Story asserts that the sense in which
the word commerce is used in that instrument includes not
only traffic, but intercourse and navigation. And in the
Passenger Cbsest it was said: "Commerce consists in selling
the superfluity, in purchasing articles of necessity, as well
productions as manufactures, in buying from one nation and
selling to another, or in transporting the merchandise from
the seller to the buyer to gain the freight." Nor does it
make any difference whether this interchange of conimodities is by land or by water. In either case the bringing of
the goods from the seller to the buyer is commerce. Among
the States it must have been principally by land when the
Constitution was adopted.
Then, why is not a tax upon freight transported from
State to State a regulation of interstate transportation, and,
;"

1057. ,

t7 7 Howard, 416.

CASE OF THE STATE FREIGHT TAX.

[Sup. Ot.

Opinion of the court.

therefore, a regulation of commerce among the States? Is
it not prescribing a rule for the transporter, by which he is
to be controlled in bringing the subjects of commerce into
the State, and in taking them out? The present case is the
best possible illustration. The legislature of Pennsylvania
has in effect declared that every ton of freight taken up
within the State and carried out, or taken up in other States
and brought within her limits, shall pay a specified tax.
The payment of that tax is a condition, upon which is made
dependent the prosecution of this branch of commerce.
And as there is no limit to the rate of taxation she may impose, if she can tax at all, it is obvious the condition may be
made so onerous that an interchange of commodities with
other States would be rendered impossible. The same
power that may impose a tax of two cents per ton upon
coal carried out of the State, may impose one of five dollars.
Such an imposition, whether large or small, is a restraint
of the privilege or right to have the subjects of commerce
pass freely from one State to another without being obstructed by the intervention of State lines. It would hardly
be maintained, we think, that had the State established
custom-houses on her borders, wherever a railroad or canal
comes to the State line, and demanded at these houses a
duty for allowing merchandise to enter or to leave the State
upon one of those railroads or canals, such an imposition
would not have been a regulation of commerce with her
sister States. Yet it is difficult to see any substantial difference between the supposed case and the one we have in
hand. The goods of no citizen of New York, New Jersey,
Ohio, or of any other State, may be placed upon a canal,
railroad, or steamboat within the State for transportation
any distance, either into or out of the State, without being
subjected to the burden. Nor can it make any difference
that the legislative purpose was to raise money for the support of the State government, and not to regulate transportation. It is not the purpose of the law, but its effect, which
we are now considering. Nor is it at all material that the
tax is levied upon all freight, as well that which is wh6lly

Dec. 1872.]

CASE OF THE STATE FREIGHT TAX.

277

Opinion of the court.

internal as that embarked in interstate trade. We are not
at this moment inquii'ing further than whether taxing goods
carried because they are carried is a regulation of carriage.
The State may tax its internal commerce, but if an act .to
tax interstate or foreign commerce is unconstitutional, it is
not cured by including in its provisions subjects within the
domain of the State. Nor is a rule prescribed for carriage
of goods through, out of,or into a State any the less a regulation of transportation because the same rule may be applied to carriage which is wholly internal. Doubtless'a
State may regulate its internal commerce as it pleases. If a
State chooses to exact conditions for allowing the passage or
carriage of persons or freight through it into another State,
the nature of the exaction is not changed by adding to it
similar conditions for allowing transportation wholly within
the State.
We may notice here a position taken by the defendants in
error, and stoutly defended in the argument, that the tax
levied, instead of being a regulation of commerce, is compensation for the use of the works of internal improvement
constructed under the autfiority of the State and by virtue
of franchises granted by the State; in other words, that it is
a toll for the use of the highways, a part of which, in right
of her eminent domain, the State may order to be paid into
her treasury. We. are asked, if the works were in her own
hands, if she were the owner of them, what provision in the
Federal Constitution would forbid her to increase her revenue
by an increase of the charge of transportation over them?
When in the hands of creatures exercising her franchises,
what clause in any instrument forbids her to tax the franchises, and to authorize the tax to be added to existing tolls
and franchises?
That this argument rests upon a misconception of the
statute is to our minds very evident. We concede the right
and power of the State to tax the franchises of its corporations, and the right of the owners of artificial highways, whether such owners be the State or grantees of franchises from
the State, to exact what they please for the use of their ways.

278

CAsE OF THE STATE FREIGHT TAX.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

That right is an attribute of ownership. But this tax is not
laid upon the franchises of the corporation, nor upon those
who hold a part of the State's eminent domain. It is laid
upon those who deal with the owners of the highways or
means of conveyance. The State is not herself the owner
of the roadways, nor of the motive power. The tax is not
compensation for services rendered by her or by her agents.
It is something beyond the cost of transportation or the
ordinary charges therefor. Having no ownership in the
railroads or canals the State has no title to their income, except so far as she reserved it in the charters of the companies. Tolls and freights are a compensation for services
rendered, or facilities furnished to a passenger or transporter.
These are not rendered or furnished by the State. A tax
is a demand of sovereignty; a toll is a demand of proprietorship. The tax levied by this act is therefore not a toll. It
is not exacted in compensation foe the use of the roadway;
and if it wei~e, the right to make terms for the use of the
roadway is in the grantee of the franchises, not in the grantor.
But, in truth, the State has no more right to demand a portion of the tolls which the grantees of her franchises may
exact than she would have to demand a portioli of the rents
of land which she had sold. She may tax by virtue of her
sovereignty, and measure the tax by income, but the income
itself is beyond her reach. All this, however, is abstract and
apart from the case before us. That the act of 1864 was not
intended to assert a claim for the use of the public works, or
a claim for a part of the tolls, is too apparent to escape observation. The tax was imposed upon freight carried by
steamboat companies, whether incorporated by the State or
not, and whether exercising privileges granted by the State
or not. It reaches freight passing up and down the Delaware and the Ohio Rivers carried by companies who derive
no rights from grants of Pennsylvania, who are exercising
no part of her eminent domain; and, as we have noticed
heretofbre, the tax is not proportioned to services rendered,
or to the use made of canals or railways. It is the same,
whether the transportation be long or short. It must there-

Dec. 1872.]

CASE OF THE STATE FREIGHT TAx.

279

Opinion of the court.

fore be considered an exaction, in right of alleged sovereignty,
from freight transported, or the right of transportation out
of,or into, or through the State-a burden upon interstate
intercourse.
If, then, this is a tax upon freight carried between States,
and a tax because of its transportation, and if such a tax is
in efbect a regulation of interstate commerce, the conclusion
seems to be inevitable that it is in conflict with the Constitution of the United States. It is not necessary to the preseut case to go at large into the much-debated questibn
whether the power given to Congress by the Constitution to
regulate commerce among the States is exclusive. In the
earlier decisions of this court it was said to have been so
entirely vested in Congress that no part of it can be exercised by a State.* It has, indeed, often been argued, and
sometimes intimated, by the court that, so far as Congress
has not legislated on the subject, the States may legislate
respecting interstate commerce. Yet, if they can, why may
they not add regulations to commerce with foreign nations
beyond those made by Congress, if not inconsistent with
them, for the power over both foreign and interstate commerce is conferred upon the Federal legislature by the same
words. And certainly it has never yet been decided by this
court that the power to regulate interstate, as well as foreign
commerce, is not exclusively in Congress. Cases that have
sustained State laws, alleged to be regulations of commerce
among the States, have been such as related to bridges or
dams across streams wholly within a State, police or health
laws, or subjects of a kindred nature, not strictly commercial
regulations. The subjects were such, as in Gilnan v. Pdladelphia,t it was said "can be best regulated by rules and
provisions suggested by the varying circumstances of different localities, and limited in their operation to such localities
respectively." However this may be, the rule has been asserted with great clearness, that whenever the subjects over
which a power to regulate commerce is asserted are in their
* Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheaton, 1 ; Passenger Cases, 7 Howard, 283.
t 3 Wallace, 713.

280

CASE o, THE STATE FnEIGnT TAX.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

nature national, or admit of one uniform system or plan of
regulation, they may justly be said to be of such a nature as
to require exclusive legislation by Congress.* Surely transportation of passengers or merchandise through a State, or
from one State to another, is of this nature. It is of national
importance that over that subject there should be but one
regulating power, for if one State can directly tax persons
or property passing through it, or tax them indirectly by
levying a tax upon their transportation, every other may,
and thus commercial intercourse between States remote from
each other may be destroyed. The produce of Western
States may thus be effectually excluded from Eastern markets, for though it might bear the imposition of a single tax,
it would be crushed under the load of many. It was to
guard against the possibility of such commercial embarrassments, no doubt, that the power of regulating commerce
among the States was conferred upon the Federal government.
In Almy v. The State of Califoria,t it was held by this
court that a law of the State imposing a tax upon bills of
lading for gold or silver transported from that State to any
port or place without the State, was substantially a tax upon
the transportation itself, and was therefore unconstitutional"
True, the decision was rested on the ground that it was a tax
upon exports, and subsequently, in Woodruff v. Parharn,t the
court denied the correctness of the reasons given for the
decision; but they said at the same time the case was well
decided for another reason, viz., that such a tax was a regulation of commerce-a tax imposed upon the transportation
of goods from one State to another, over the high seas, in
conflict with that freedom of transit of goods and persons
between one State and another, which is within the rule laid
down in Crandall v. iVevada,§ and with the authority of Congress to regulate commerce among the States.
Cooley v. Port Wardens, 12 Howard, 299; Gilmanv. Philadelphia, supra;
Crandall v. The State of Nevada, 6 Wallace, 42..
t 24 Howard, 169.

1 8 Wallace 123.

6 Id.

35.

Dec. 1872.]

CASE OF THE STATE FREIGHT TA±.

281

Opinion of the court.

In Crandallv. The State of-Nerada, where it appeared that
the legislature of the State had enacted that there should
"be levied and collected a capitation tax of one dollar upon
every person leaving the State by any railroad, stage-coach,
or other vehicle engaged or employed in the business of
transporting passengers for hire," and required the proprietors, owners, and corporations so engaged to make monthly
reports of the number of persons carried, and to pay the tax,
it was ruled that though required to be paid by the carriers,
the tax was a tax upon passengers, for the privilege of being
carried out of the State, and not a tax on the business of the
carriers. For that reason it was held that the law imposing
it was invalid, as in conflict with the Constitution of the
United States. A majority of the court, it is true, declined
to rest the decision upon the ground that the tax was a
regulation of interstate commerce, and therefore beyond the
power of the State to impose, but all the judges agreed that
the State law was unconstitutional and void. The Chief
Justice and Mr. Justice Cliffbrd thought the judgment should
have been placed exclusively on the ground that the act of
the State legislature was inconsistent with the power conferred upon Congress to regulate commerce among the several States, and it does not appear that the other judges held
that it was not thus inconsistdiit. In any view of the case,
however, it decides that a State cannot tax persons for passing -through, or out of it. Interstate transportation of passengers is beyond the reach of a State legislature. And if
State taxation of persons passing from one State to another,
or a State tax upon interstate transportation of passengers is
unconstitutional, a fortiori, if possible, is a State tax upon
the carriage of merchandise from State to State, in conflict
with the Federal Constitution. Merchandise is the subject
of commerce. Transportation is essential to commerce; and
every burden laid upon it is pro tanto a restriction. Whatever, therefore, may be the true doctrine respecting the
exclusiveness of the power vested in Congress to regulate
commerce among the States, we regard it as established that
no State can impose a tax upon freight transported from

282

ERIE RAILWAY COMPANY V. PENNSYLVANIA.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

State to State, or upon the transporter because of such transportation.
But while holding this, we recognize fully the power of
each State to tax at its discretion its own internal commerce,
and the franchises, property, or business of its own corporations, so that interstate intercourse, trade, or commerce, be
not embarrassed or restricted. That must remain free.
The conclusion of the whole is that, in our opinion, the
act of the legislature of Pennsylvania of August 25th, 1864,
so far as it applies to articles carried through the State, or
articles taken up in the State and carried out of it, or articles
taken up without the State and brought into it, is unconstitutional and void.
JUDGMENT REVERSED,

proceedings

and the record is remitted for further

p e ACCORDANCE WITH THIS OPINION.

Mr. Justice SWAYKE (with whom concurred Mr. Justice
DAVIS), dissenting.
I dissent from the opinion just read. In my judgment,
the tax is imposed upon the business of those required to pay
it. The tonnage is only the mode of ascertaining the extent
of the business. That no discrimination is made between
freight carried wholly within the State, and that brought
into or carried through or out of it, sets this, as I think, in
a clear light, and is conclusive on the subject.

NOTE.

AT the same time with the preceding case was adjudged another, that of
ERIE RAILWAY COMPANY V. PENNSYLVANIA.

A case, like the preceding one, in error to the Supreme Court
of Pennsylvania. The plaintiff in error, in the present case, was
a corporation created by the State of New York, which by acts

