EX PAIRTE R'OBERTS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

The CHIEF JUSTICE delivered the opinion of the court.
Two questions are presented, both of which have been
adjudicated. The first relates to the proceeding of the court
of Louisiana, by which the original judgment was rendered.
It is claimed that this was a proceeding in admiralty. It
was, in fact, a proceeding against the persons of the defendants, instituted by attachment. Such a suit, we have held,
is not a proceeding in admiralty.*
The second question relates to the validity of the appointment of the judge who presided in the court of the Fourth
District of New Orleans. His commission came from the
military governor, who was appointed by the President during the late war. We have already decided that such appointments were within the power of such a goveruor.t
There can have been no good ground for the writ of error
under the former adjudications of this court, and there is no
attempt to question these adjudications. We are obliged,
therefore, to regard this writ of error as prosecuted for
delay.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Arkansas must be
AFFIRMED, WITH[ TEN PER CENT. DAMAGES.

Ex

PARTE 10BERTS.

The allowance of an appeal to this court by the Court of Claims, does not
absolutely and of itself remove the cause from the jurisdiction of the
latter court, so that no order revoking such allowance can be made.

ON petition of M. 0. Roberts for a writ of mandamus to
the Court of Claims to require that court to hear, entertain,
" The Genesee Chief v.Fitzhugh, 12 Howard, 443; Jackson v. Steamboat
Magnolia, 20 Id. 296; Taylor v. Carryl, Ib. 583; The Hine v. Trevor, 4
Wallace, 555; The Belfast, 7 Id. 624; Leon v. Galceran, 11 Id. 185.
j Handlin v. Wickliffe, 12 Id. 173; Leitensdorfer v. Webb, 20 Howard,
177; The Grapeshot, 9 Wallace, 133.

Dec. :1872.]

Ex

PARTE ROBERTS.

Statement of the case in the opinion.

and decide a certain motion made there by him for a new
trial, and also to correct the records of the court in certain
particulars set forth in the petition, the main question arising on the motion being whether the allowance of an appeal
to this court by the Court of Claims, absolutely and of itself
removes a cause from its jurisdibtion, so that no order revoking such allowance can be made.
.Messrs. T. Wilson and E. N. Dickerson, in support of the motion; 3.r. C. H. Hill, Assistant Attorney- eneral, contra.
The CHIEF JUSTICE stated the case and delivered the
opinion of the court.
The act of Congress, 3d March, 1863, authorizes appeals
from the Court of Claims to this court under such regulations as this court may direct, provided such appeals be
taken within ninety days after such judgment or decree.
By our third rule, regulating these appeals, we directed.
that this limitation of ninety days should "cease to run
from the time of the application for the appeal." In other
words, the appeal was taken, in the sense of the act, when
the defeated party in the Court of Claims signified, by his
motion for the allowance of an appeal, his desire to take
one. But, by the same rule, we declared that an allowance
by the court or the Chief Justice in.vacation was essential
to the perfecting of an appeal; so that there might be, between the motion for the appeal and its allowance, an interval of time, greater or less as might be determined by theconvenience of counsel, subject to the discretion of the court.
The judgment in the case before us was rendered on the
27th of February, 1871. On the 16th of May, a motion for
new trial was made, and, on the 22d of the same month,
there was filed a motion for the allowance of an appeal.
This motion was in time, and, unless there be some rule of
the Court of Claims to the contrary, we perceive no objection to hearing the motion for new trial at any time after it
was made, or, if that should be refused, to the subsequent
allowance of the appeal. It appears, however, that theVOL. XV.

25

EX PARTE IROBERTS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

attorney for the ,petitioners, apprehending some prejudice
to his motion for new trial from the motion for an appeal,
entered into a stipulation with the Assistant Attorney-General, representing the United States, which was filed with
the motion for an appeal, that the latter motion should not
injuriously affect the former, or prevent a full hearing and
decision upon the merits. Both motions were thereupon
continued. Subsequently, while both were pending, one of
the counsel for the plaintiffs, not the attorney of record, and
without the assent or knowledge of the attorneys of record,
moved the court, on the 2d day of May, 1872, for the allowance of an appeal as prayed by the motion of the 22d of
May, 1871, and the appeal was allowed. As soon thereafter
as the motion could be made, the same counsel moved for
and obtained an order, May 8th, 1872, revoking this allowance. Afterwards, the motion for new trial coming on to
be heard, on the 22d November, the court refused to entertain it, on the ground that an appeal had been allowed
on the 2d May, 1872, and that, the cause having been thus
removed from its jurisdiction, the subsequent order, revoking that allowance, was a nullity. The attorney for the
petitioners then moved the court to strike out the allowance
of appeal, on the 2d of May, 1872, but the court refused to
entertain that motion.
The question whether the court erred is now before us.
We are clearly of opinion that the Court of Claims had
power to hear and ought to have heard and determined both
motions, and that its order of revocation, made on the 8th
of May, 1872, was within its jurisdiction.
That it ought to hear and decide the motion for new trial
is obvious; for, when that motion was called up on the 22d
of November, 1872, the order revoking the allowance of appeal stood itself unrevoked. A new order was necessary to
get rid of its effect. As long as it remained on the record,
to question could be made of its operation.
But was it a nullity in fact?
It cannot be denied that the order allowing the appeal

:Dec. 1872.]

MOSES v.

Tim MAYOR.

Statement of the case.

was improvidently made. It was moved for without authority, or, if with authority, under a total misapprehension of
fact and in disregard of the stipulation entered into by the
attorneys in the cause. Its effect was to destroythe previous
motion for a new trial, contrary to the express terms of the
agreement. It had hardly been made when the counsel who
had inadvertently moved for it, moved for its revocation,
and the motion was granted. We do not doubt the power
or the propriety of that action. The whole record was still
in the possession of the Court of Claims; and the stipulation, showing that the motion for an allowance of the appeal could not properly be disposed of before the motion
for new trial had been heard and determined, was a part of
that record.
We shall, therefore, award a mandamus, requiring the
Court of Claims to hear, entertain, and decide the motion
for new trial, and also the motion to correct the records of
that court, as set forth in the motion to this court, made in
behalf of the petitioners.
AWARD ACCORDINGLY.

MOSES v. Tui- MAYOR.
The rule redeclared, that a decree of the highest court of a State which,
merely dissolving an injunction granted in an inferior court, leaves the
whole case to be disposed of on its merits, .is not a "final decree," and,
therefore, does not come within the 25th section of the Judiciary Act
of 1789 or the 2d section of the act of 1867, giving revisory powers to
this court over final decrees or judgments rendered in certain cases in
such highest court.

ON motion of Mr. -P. Philhyps, to dismiss for want of jurisdiction; the case being thus:
Moses and another had filed their bill in a State court of
Alabama, asserting that a law of that State authorized them,
on payment of a certain sum, to establish a lottery; that
they had paid the sum and established a lottery accordingly.
They now complained that they had been several times ar-

