T MLINSON

V. BRANCH.

LsuP. Ct.

General statement of the case.

TOMLINSON V. BRANCH.
1. The doctrine that a State legislature, unrestricted by constitutional prohibition, has power to exempt certain property from taxation, reiterated.
2. Where a railroad company, by its charter, was granted such an exemption for a limited period, and was afterwards merged in another railroad company, which became invested with all its property, rights, and
privileges, the exemption and its limitation accompanied the property,
and a perpetual exemption from taxation in the charter of the latter
company would not be extended to the property so acquired-, without
express words, or necessary intendment to th'at effect.
3. Where two railroad companies are consolidated the presumption is, that
each of the two united lines of road will be respectively held with the
privileges and burdens originally attaching thereto, unless the contrary
is expressed.
APPEAL from the Circuit Cburt for the District of South
Carolina.
Branch and others, stockholders of the South Carolina
Railroad Company, filed a bill in equity in the court below
against the said company, as also against one Tomlinson,
the State Auditor, and others, certain county collectors, to
enjoin the company from paying and the others from collecting certain taxes imposed on the said company in pursuance of an act of the legislature of South Carolina, passed in
April, 1868, and another act passed in February, 1870; it
being alleged in the bill that the said company was, by its
charter, exempt from taxation, and that no adequate legal
remedy existed under the laws of the State to obtain redress;
and that the company declined to adopt any measures for
obtaining it.
The question in the case was whether the company was
entitled to an exemption from taxation which the legislature
could not abrogate or disregard; it being conceded that the
company was made taxable, if the legislature had the power
to tax it.
The property of the company was derived from two
sources, one portion being a railroad from Charleston to
Hamburg, opposite the town of Augusta, Georgia, which

Dec. 1872.]

ToMLINSON V. BRANCH.
General statement of the case.

was constructed by and formerly belonged to the South
Carolina Canal and Railroad Company, and the other being
roads extending from Branchville on the line of the first
road,to Columbia and Camden, which were constructed by
the South Carolina Railroad Company under its own charter.
This court distinguished between the two parts.

The diagram will exhibit the roads, as well as another
one from Columbia towards Augusta, incidentally mentioned
in the case.

462

T0 mIIN~SON v.

BRANCIL

[Sup. Ct.

Statement, in the opinion, of the first part of the case.

MAfessrs. D. -. Chamberlain, D. T. Corbin, and P. Phillips,
for the appellants; Messrs. J. Conmer and A. G. NcG'rath,
contra.
Mr. Justice BRADLEY stated the cases as respected both
parts of the road, and delivered as to each the opinion of the
court.
The South Carolina Canal and Railroad Company was
chartered by the legislature of South Carolina in December,
1827, for the purpose of constructing a railroad or canal, or
both, from Charleston to each of the towns of Columbia,
Camden, and Hamburg, with the exclusive right for that
purpose for thirty-six years. In a supplement of January,
1828, amongst other things, it was enacted as follows, viz.:
"That during the first period of thirty-six years the stock of
the company, and the real estate that may be purchased by
them and connected with, and be subservient to the works
herein authorized, shall be exempted from taxation."
Under this charter the company constructed a railroad
from Charleston to Hamburg only, a distance of nearly 140
miles. This road was completed in 1833, and it is admitted
that the thirty-six years of exemption from taxation expired
in 1869, and cannot be invoked in support of the present
suit.
In 1835 the Cincinnati and Charleston Railroad Company
-was incorporated by the legislature of South Carolina, for
the purpose of establishing a communication by railroad between Cincinnati and Charleston, through the States of Kentucky, Tennessee, North Carolina, and South Carolina, with
power to construct branches not conflicting with any chartered rights, and with power to use any section of the said
railroad before the whole should be completed. By the 43d
section of this charter it was enacted that the capital stock
of this company, the dividends thereon, and all the property
and estate, real and personal, belonging to said company,
should be forever exempt from taxation, unless the dividends
should exceed lawful interest. Subsequently the project of

Dec. 1872.]

TOMLINSON V. BRANCH.

Statement, in the opinion, of the first part of the case.

extending the road into other States was abandoned, and
the name of the company was changed, first to that of the
Louisville, Cincinnati, and Charleston Railroad Company,
and afterwards to that of the South Carolina Railroad Company. The company never built any portion of the railroad
authorized by its charter, except from Branchville to Columbia, and a branch to Camden. The exclusive privileges
conceded to the South Carolina Canal and Railroad Company rendered it difficult, if not impracticable, to effect a
communication with Charleston without the consent of that
company. Hence negotiations for an amalgamation of interests between the two companies took place as early as
1837, and it was practically effected in'that and the ensuing
years. The mode in which it was done was that the stocknolders of the South Carolina Canal and Railroad Company
exchanged their stock in that company for an equal number
of shares in the Louisville, Cincinnati, and Charleston Railroad Company (afterwards called the South Carolina Railroad Company), and received in addition a bonus of twentyfive per cent. By this means the latter company acquired
the entire control of the fbrmer, and used the road of the
former company between Branchville and Charleston, instead of building a separate road of their own.
In 1843, by an act of the legislature passed the 19th of
December, this amalgamation was formally legalized. The
section relating to this subject was expressed in the following terms:
"That whenever the written consent of all the stockholders
of the South Carolina Canal and Railroad Company shall have
been obtained, the said South Carolina Canal and Railroad Company shall be merged in the said South Carolina Railroad Company, and thereupon and thereafter all the rights, privileges,
and property belonging to the said South Carolina Canal and
Railroad Company shall be vested in the said South Carolina
Railroad Company, and the said South Carolina" Railroad Company shall be liable for all the debts and contracts of the said
South Carolina Canal and Railroad Company; and the stock
and property of the said South Carolina Railroad Company

TOMLINSON V. BRANCH.

[Sup. CL.

Opinion of the court on the first part of the case.

shall be subject to the same liens and charges to which the
stock and property of the said South Carolina Canal and Railroad Company may be liable, and in the same relative order in
which the said liens and charges now stand."
It is conceded that the terms of this law were complied
with. And now the defendants in error contend that by
the "merger" of the South Carolina Canal and Railroad
Company in the South Carolina Railroad Company, the
property of the former is held by the latter, with all the
rights and privileges of its own charter attaching thereto,
including the right of perpetual exemption from taxation.
If this is so, the State, by giving the latter company the
power to acquire the property of the former, has lost a valuable prerogative in reference to that property, which it possessed up to the time when the act of 1843 was passednamely, the right to tax the property after the expiration of
the thirty-six years. Such a conclusion of the rights of the
State ought not to be admitted without a clear expression
of the legislative assent. It does not seem to us that the
section in question contains such clear assent. In declaring
that the one company shall be merged in the other, and that
the rights, privileges, and property of the one shall be vested
in the other, the legislature cannot be understood to mean
that the restrictions, limitations, and burdens affecting that
property, and imposed for the benefit of the public or of individuals, shall not go with it. The rights and privileges
go with it, and those rights and privileges can with difficulty
be separated from the restrictions and duties by which they
are measured and qualified. For example, the right to
charge toll and freight can hardly be separated from the
limitation of the rates of toll and freight which the charter
of the merged company imposed. If the rates of freight
were limited in that charter to five cents per ton per mile,
can it be claimed that the new company is discharged from
that limitation altogether? Or if its own charter allows a
charge of ten cents per ton per mile, can it claim the right
to charge ten cents for freight transported on the old road?

Dec. 1872.]

TOMLINSON

v.

BRANCHL

Opinion of the court on the first part of the case.

If the hypothesis were reversed, and the old charter allowed
ten cents, whilst the new allowed but five, the company
would not hesitate, under the grant of the rights and privileges of the old, to continue to charge ten cents, as !he
former company had done. And they would have reason
on their side. Had it been intended that the road and property of the old company should be owned and controlled by
the new company under its own charter, in the same manner
as its other property, it would have been easy to have so declared. Not having so declared, we cannot presume that
such was the intent. The keeping alive of the rights and
privileges of the old company, and transferring them to the
new company in connection with the property, indicates the
legislative intent, that such property was to be holden in
the same manner and subject to the same rights as before.
The owners of the property were to lose no rights by the
transfer, nor was the public to lose any rights thereby. Of
course, these remarks do hot apply to those corporate rights
and franchises of the old company, which appertaii to its
existence and functions as a corporation. These became
merged and extinct. But all its rights and duties, its privileges and obligations, as related to the public, or to third
persons, remain, and devolve upon the new company. This
seems to us the most obvious and natural construction of
the act, and leads to the conclusion that, as to the road,
property, and works appertaining to the main line from
Charleston to Hamburg, the South Carolina Railroad Company has no claim to exemption from taxation.
This view of the subjpct is corroborated by the decision
of this court in the case of The Philadelphia, IVilminglon, and
Baltimore Railroad Company v. M1aryland.* It there appeared
that the railroad line between Baltimore and Philadelphia
had originally belonged to several distinct organizations
chartered by the States of Maryland, Delaware, and Pennsylvania. One of these companies was exempt from certain
taxation, and it was claimed by the consolidated company
* 10 Howard, 376.
VOL. XV.

. 30

TOMLINSON V. BRANCH.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court on the first part of the case.

that this exemption was transferred to it and affected all
parts of the line. The act authorizing the union of the
several companies provided that the "said body corporate
so formed should be entitled.., to all the powers and privileges and advantages then belonging to the former corporations." And the new company claimed the exemption from
taxes as one of the privileges and exemptions acquired. But
the court held that the exemption did not extend to a portion of the line to which it had not extended before the
union. It considered the evident meaning of the law to be,
that whatever privileges and advantages either of the former
companies possessed should in like manner be held and possessed by the new company, to the extent of the road which
the said former companies had respectively occupied before
the union; that it should stand in their place, and possess
the power, rights, and privileges they had severally enjoyed
in the portions of the road which had previously belonged
to them.
It seems to us that this decision is directly in point, and
governs that branch of the case now under consideration.
IReference is made, however, to certain decisions of the
courts of South Carolina, which, it is contended, settle the
question the other way.
The first case referred to is South Carolina Railroad Compan v. Blake,* which arose out of an attempt of the South
Carolina Railroad Company to condemn certain land for its
purposes in Charleston. The owner disputed the right of
condemnation on the ground that the road and works had
long before been located, and that, therefore, the power was
gone. But the court held that the power existed under
both charters, and might be exercised under either-first,
showing by affidavit the necessity of the use. The observations on the subject of taxation were obiter dicta; but, as far
as the judgment goes it does not seem to us to militate
against the views we have taken, but rather to confirm them
by recognizing the continued vitality of the powers con* 9 Richardson, 233.

Dec. 1872.]

TOMLINSON V. BRANCH.

Opinion of the court on the first part of the case.

tained in the old charter. These cannot fairly be claimed
without accepting also its duties and burdens.
Another case was that of The State ex rel. South Carolina
Railroad Company v. Hood, State Treasurer,* in which the
company claimed exemption from a State income tax imposed in 1867, under a law passed the year preceding, taxing the gross incomes of all railroads not exempt by law. The
Court of Appeals held that the company was exempt by law,
both under the thirty-six years' exemption in the old charter (which had not then expired), and under the exemption
in the charter of 1835; and expressly waived the consideration of the effect of the act of union passed in 1843. This
case, therefore, furnishes no authority on the subject.
The remaining case is that of The South Carolina Railroad
Company v. The Columbia and Augusta Railroad Company,t
decided in 1867. The defendant company, in that case, was
chartered in 1858 with authority to construct a railroad from
Columbia to Augusta. The South Carolina Railroad Company claimed that this would be an invasion of its exclusive
privileges, as guaranteed in the charter of the South Carolina Canal and Railroad Company and in that of the Cincinnati and Charleston Railroad Company. The learned
chancellor, by whom the case was decided, assumed that
the South Carolina Railroad Company was entitled to both
guarantees; but he held that the projected road would not
be an infringement of either. The guarantee given to the
old company was that of an exclusive right (for thirty-six
years from the completion of its road) of having a railroad
between Charleston as one terminus, and the towns of Columbia, Camden, and Hamburg, respectively; and the guarantee given to the Cincinnati and Charleston Railroad Company was, that for thirty-six years from January first, 1836,
the State should not authorize any other road within twenty
miles of its road, which should connect any points thereon,
or should run in the general direction thereof; which exclusive privilege was not to extend to branches, but only to the
*15 Richardson, 177.

t13 R~ichardson's E quity, 339.

ToMmNsox v. BRANOCH.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement, in the opinion, of the second part of the case.

main road. The chancellor held that the first guarantee
secured the company only against other roads leading to
Charleston, which the projected road did not do; and that
the second guarantee secured the company only against
roads interfering with the main line of the Cincinnati and
Charleston company, which the projected road did not do,
beca.use this main line, as originally contemplated, was to
extend from Charleston, via Branchville and Columbia, to
Cincinnati; and the only part of it ever constructed was the
road from Charleston via Branchville to Columbia; with
which the projected road did not interfere. This was all
that the chancellor decided. It is true that, in the course
of his opinion, he does say that after the acquisition of the
old road, extending from Charleston to Hamburg, the charter- of the South Carolina Railroad Company extended over
it, the same as if that company had built it. But that proposition was not material to the conclusion to which he came.
And when he assumed that the guarantee of the old charter
still subsisted with regard to the old road, and based his
judgment upon that assumption as one of its grounds, his
opinion is virtually an authority for the other proposition,
that the company must be regarded as holding the old road,
so far as the rights of the public are concerned, subject to
the conditions and limitations of that charter, as well as
with its privileges and immunities.
Be this, however, as it may, we find nothing in this case
or the other cases referred to, which, in our view, affects the
authority of the case of The Philadelphia, Wilmington, and
_Balimore Railroad Company v. Maryland, or the soundness of
the conclusion to which we have come, as before expressed.
The next inquiry relates to the line of railroad constructed
by the South Carolina Railroad Company, under its own
charter; being that portion between Branchville and Columbia and Camden. We have seen that the company, by
its original charter granted in 1835, had the grant of a perpetual exemption from taxation. We have already decided
that it is competent for the legislative power to grant such

Dec.1872.]

TOMLINSON V. BRANCH.

Statement, in the opinion, of the second part of the case.

an exemption.

But it is contended on the part of the State,

that this exemption, and all other chartered privileges of the
company, are subject to alteration and repeal, by virtue of
the 41st section of an act, passed in December, 1841, by
which it is declared"That it shall become part of the charter of every corporation, which shall, at the present, or any succeeding session of
the General Assembly, receive a grant of a charter, or any renewal, amendment, or modification thereof( unless the act granting such charter, renewal, amendment, or modification shall, in
express terms, except it), that every charter or incorporation
granted, renewed, or modified as aforesaid, shall at all times
remain subject to amendment, alteration, or repeal, by the legis.
lative authority."
Now,there can be no doubt but that the act of 1843, hu-

thorizing the consolidation of the two companies, or *the
merger of the one into the other, was an act modifying the
charter of the South Carolina Railroad Company; but the
third section of that act withdrew the charter from the operation of the act of 1841. It was in these words:
"SECTIoN 3. The said South Carolina Railroad Company is
hereby excepted from the provisions of the forty-first section of
an act entitled, An act to incorporate certain villages, &c. [referring to the act in question], but nothing herein contained
shall be construed as exempting the said company from the provisions of' the said forty-first section, upon any future grant,
renewal, or modification of their charter."

The allegation on the part of the State is, that subsequent
legislation was obtained by the company, which modified its
charter, and thus rendered the whole charter liable to subsequent alteration and repeal. The legislation referred to
consists of two several acts, namely: "An act to lend the
credit of the State to secure certain bonds, to be issued by'
the South Carolina Railroad Company, and for other purposes, passed December 21st, 1865 ;" and "An act to amend

the act last aforesaid, passed the 19th day of September,
1866."

It is very doubtful whether these acts can be re.

CITY OF CHARLESTON V. BRANCH.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

garded as amending or modifying the charter of the company. They merely authorize the extension of certain bonds
made by the company (which the State had guaranteed), by
the issue of new bonds of like character, and the continuation of the mortgage for securing the payment of said bonds.
But whatever may be thought on this point, the third section of the act of 1843 clearly withdraws from the operation
of the act of 1841 (by which power to amend and repeal is
reserved) the entire charter of the company except as to
future grants, renewals, and modifications. Such future
grants only were to be subject to alteration and repeal. This
seems to us conclusive of the point raised, and no further
argument is necessary.
It is our opinion, therefore, that the part of the line now
under consideration is exempt from taxation; and that so
much of the decree as relates thereto is correct.
DECREE REVERSED, with directions to enter a decree making the injunction perpetual as to all that part of the line
and railroad of said South Carolina Railroad Company,
which extends from Branchville to Columbia and Camden,
and as to all property and stock of said company, properly
apportionable and applicable to the said portion of line and
railroad, and dismissing the bill as to all the residue of the
railroad property and stock of said company, and that such
further proceedings be had as may be necessary to perfect
and carry out said decree.

NOTE.

AT the same time with the preceding case was argued and
adjudged another appeal, from the same court, the case, namely,
of the
CITY OF CHARLESTON

v.

BRANCH,

in which case Branch had filed a bill against the councils of the
said city and against the same South Carolina Railroad Company, to prevent the former from collecting and the latter from

