Dec. 1872.]

THE JOHN GRIIFFIN.
Statement of the case.

THE JOHN GRIFFIN.
A vessel condemned for violation of the revenue laws on a clear primdfacie
case made out against her by the government and not rebutted by the
claimants.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the Eastern District of
:New York; the case being thus:
The act of Congress of March 2d, 1799, " to regulate the
collection of duties on imposts and tonnage,"," enacts by its
50th section, "that no merchandise shall be unladen from
vessels coming from any foreign port but in open day; that
any person who shall be concerned in thus unlading them,
shall forfeit and pay severally, for each offence, $400, and be
disabled from holding any office of trust or profit under the
United States for a term not exceeding seven years, and
that when the value of the goods unladed exceed $400, the
vessel, tackle, apparel, and furniture shall be subject to
seizure and condemnation."
The same statute, after directing how seizures for violations of it shall be made, enacts:

71. That in actions, suits, or informations to be
brought where any seizure shall be made pursuant to this act,
if the property be claimed by any person, in every such case
the onus probandi shall be upon the claimant."
"SFcTIoN

With this statute in force, the United States libelled in the
District Court at New York the bark John Griffin, owned
by one W. Downey and three other persons, on an allegation
that her officers had aided in introducing segars of the value
of more than $400 into New York City, from Cuba, A.D.
1868, in violation of the law.
There did not seem to be any reason to doubt that the
segars were brought into the city by night from Cuba without
paying duty, and that this was done with intent to defraud
the government. And the only question in the case was
* 1 Stat. at Larg6, 665.

THE

[Sup. Ct.

JOHN GRIFFIN.

Statement of the case.

whether Downey, the master and part owner of the vessel,
had participated in this fraud by bringing the segars on his
vessel.
The segars were seized in a room where they were stored
in New York, and the owner of the segars, one Albren, was
the principal witness for the government. His testimony
amounted to this: that being in Havana, and desiring to
get a large lot of segars through to New York without payment of duty, he met in that city Captain Downey, whose
vessel, the John Griffin, was then lying at Matanzas taking
in or waiting for cargo; 'that he suggested the matter to
Downey, who neither accepted nor declined, but that a few
days afterwards he received a letter from a carman at Matanzas saying if he would send the segars down, the carman would see them all right, which was done; that in a
very few days after this he received in Havana a letter in
these words,-the letter itself, which had been found by the
custom-house officers in Albren's writing-de~k before they
made the seizure of the segars, being produced by them in
evidence,MATAq zAs,

September 23d, 1868.

Ali. JOHN AL.REN.
DEAR SIR: Your twenty-two boxes, trunk, and barrel package

are all on board safe. I wish your boxes were all hid'en, the
same as my sugar boxes. They are too easily distinguished,
but I think they will be all right.

Yours, respectfully,
W.

DOWNEY.

Albren further testified that shortly after the vessel arrived
in New York the segars were delivered at a place designated
or agreed on between him and Downey, and that he paid
Downey over $3000 for his services in the matter. He mentioned the place where he met and paid Downey, and stated
that a man named Morlina was present when this payment
was made.
Morlina's testimony corroborated that of Albren as to the
receipt of the money by Downey. He testified that he went
with Albren and was present when Downey, whom he knew,

Dec. 1872.]

THE JOHN GRIFFIN.
Statement of the case.

and Albreu met on the street and retired to an office in South
Street; that he saw Albren hand Captain Downey a bundle
of money, but did not know how much; that it was a bundle
of paper money.
To rebut this apparently good case against the vessel,
Downey himself came forward. Efforts were also made to
impeach the veracity of Albren.
Downey swore positively that the segars were never on
board his vessel with his knowledge or consent, and to his
belief that they were not there at all. He admitted an interview with Albren in Havana, or somewhere else, in regard
to a trunk and barrel package. He equivocated about the
authorship of the letter produced by Albren, saying that he
could not say that it was written by him," " that it might
have been written by him," ".that it looked like his handwriting." He nowhere denied that he wrote it. He attempted to explain it by saying that it might possibly have
referred to his having seen these things on board another
vessel, not his, as a service to Albren, to let him know they
were there, but with no knowledge that they were to be
landed without paying duty. But he did not speak of this
with certainty, nor did he give the name of the other vessel
on which he might have seen the segars. The receipt of
the money from Albren he wholly denied.
As to Albren's character for truth and veracity, four witnesses swore that his reputation was bad; but against two
of these, proceedings had been begun for frauds on the
revenue, and Albren was to be a witness in them. Several
other persons testified that they had known and dealt with
him, and that, so far as they knew, his character for truth
and veracity was good.
A more striking evidence, perhaps, against him on this
point, consisted in the fact that after these segars had been
seized by the custom-house officers, and proceedings of condemnation had been begun against the vessel, Albren went
with Downey to the office of one MNcGowan, proctor of the
claimants, to make an affidavit to subserve their case. Being
questioned by the proctor as to whether he had shipped or

THE JOHN GRIFFIN.

[Sup. Ct.

Argument for the government.

received any goods by the John Griffin, he said that he had
not. The statement was then reduced to writing by McGowan
thus, it not, however, having been sworn to nor signed by
Albren:
"Deponent further says that he did not receive from on board
the said bark John Griffin, at any time during the year 1868,
any segars whatever; and that no segars whatever came consigned to deponent in said vessel at any time during the year
1868."
McGowan's draft of the intended affidavit being produced
on the hearing of the present suit, and he having testified to
its being what was said, Albren was called on to explain it.
And this was the explanation:
"When I visited McGowan's office, I went first time with the
captain. He questioned me whether I shipped or received any
goods by the John Griffin. I told him not. He continued
writing, and after he got through he read it to me-the statement which he wanted me to sign-and I refused to sign. Then
he told me that he would give me $500 himself; not the captain,
but himself, after the trial was over. I told him these $500, I
should like to have them before the trial, and for my evidence
of not having shipped or received any goods by the bark John
Griffin only."
The District Court rendered a decree of condemnation,
which was reversed in the Circuit Court; and the United
States, dissatisfied with this latter decree, appealed to this
court.
Mr.'.Donohue, for the appellant, argued that this attempt to
confiscate a valuable vessel rested wholly on the testimony
of a convicted smuggler, a man so base that he now unblushingly avows that for $500 he was, a short time since,
ready to swear to what he declares was a gross lie. Such
testimony, the learned counsel contended, was not fit to be
received in any court.
31r. . Bt. Hill, Assistant Attorney- General, contra, contended that the evidence offered in behalf of the govern-

Dec. 1872.]

THE JOHN GRIFFIN.
Opinion of the court.

ment presented a prima facie case, which the testimony of
the claimants had failed to overcome; and that in such a
case sentence of condemnation necessarily followed.
Mr. Justice MILLER delivered the opinion of the court.
Upon the case as made out by the government, in the absence of any rebutting evidence, no court or jury, we think,
could hesitate in finding that Downey had been guilty of
aiding in the fraudulent introduction of the cigars without
payment of duty. The case as thus made amounts to something more than the probable cause, which, by section
seventy-one of the act of 1799, throws the onus probandion
the claimant of the vessel. It is a clear prirm faeie case,
and both by the statutes and the ordinary rules of evidence
required of the claimant such testimony as should satisfactorily rebut the presumption of guilt which it raised.
The principal reliance of the claimants for this is upon
the testimony of Downey, who attempts to explain his
letter, and upon an effort to impeach the character of
Albren for veracity. But the whole of his explanation and
account of the letter au its purpose is vague, unreasonable,
and altogether unsupported by any other testimony, or by
reference to anything which would confirm it. While every
word and line of the letter is in exact harmony with
Albren's account of the transaction, and must be regarded
as decisive as to the relative credibility of the two stories
told by the witnesses.
In reference to the receipt of the money also, while Downey flatly denies it, and thus is in direct conflict with Albren,
the latter is supported by Morlina, who tells a consistent
story, and whose veracity is unimpeached.
It is not unimportant in this connection to consider also
that Downey swears under the influence of being owner to
the extent of one-fourth of the vessel, and that the charge
against which he testifies is an implication of bad faith in
him towards the other joint owners, and a fraud and a
crime against the government, for which, if guilty, he is
liable to severe punishment.
VOL. XV.

3

UNITED STATES V. KELLY.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

The attempt to impeach Albren's character rests on the
testimony of four witnesses. Two of these were parties to
judicial proceedings alleging against them similar acts of
fraud on the revenue, and Albren had been, or was expected to be, a witness against them. On the other hand,
several witnesses are called who testify to his general good
character for truth and veracity. In this respect we do not
think he has been successfully impeached.
As to the statement introduced in evidence, as taken down
in the office of the claimants' attorney, purporting to be made
by Albren, though not signed or sworn to, it seems to us that
his own account of it is probably correct, namely, that it was
an attempt to commit him before the trial to a statement
which would exonerate Captain Downey, and that the offered
bribe failed, probably because neither party would trust the
other by signing the paper or paying down the money first.
We think that a case is made out against the vessel, and
that the decree of the Circuit Court must be REVERSED, and
a judgment rendered in favor of the United States in that
court.
DECREE ACCORDINGLY.

UNITED STATES V. KELLY.
A soldier, who had deserted, but was restored to duty by order of his department commander, without trial, on condition that he make good
the time lost (about two months), and who complied with the condition,
and was honorably discharged at the expiration of his term of service,
held entitled to bounty money, notwithstanding his desertion.

THIS was an appeal by the United States from a judgment
of the Court of Claims, in favor of one Kelly, lately a soldier
in the army of the United States, for an unpaid balance of
bounty money.
The claim was denied by the pay department, on the
ground that the bounty had been forfeited by desertion.

