Dec. 1872.]

BROWN V. HIATTS.
Statement of the case.

the cestui que trust would have had no occasion to be dissatisfied with his conduct.
It is needless to argue that Duncan is bound by the notice
communicated to the cashier when he received the certificate and concluded the business with Jaudon.
Without pursuing the subject further, we are satisfied
that the decrees below should be
AFFIRMED.

BROWN v. HIATTS.
I. Statutes of limitation of the several States did not run during the late
civil war against the right of action of parties upon contracts made
previous to, and maturing after, the commencement of the war.
2. Interest on loans made previous to, and maturing after, the commencement of the war ceased to run during the subsequent continuance of the
war, although interest was stipulated in the contract.
3. These doctrines held in a case where a mortgagee, who was a citizen and
resident of Virginia, one of the Confederate States, brought a suit, after
the close of the war, upon a bond and mortgage executed by citizens of
Kansas, one of the loyal States, previous to the war, but which matured
a month after the commencement of the war.
4. It having been held that the civil war commenced in Virginia at the date
of the proclamation of the President of intended blockade of her ports,
April 27th, 1861, and to hav ended, so far as the statutes of limitation
are concerned, on his proclamation of its close, April 2d, 1866, the period
between those dates must be deducted in the computation of the time
during which the statute of Kansas had run against the right of action
of the mortgagee on the said bond and mortgage.
APPEAL from the Circuit Court for the District of Kansas;
the case being thus:
Brown filed a bill against Hiatt and wife to foreclose a
mortgage, executed by the latter persons upon certain real
property in Kansas, to secure their joint and several bond
for $2400, with interest, and to obtain a sale of the mortgaged premises for its payment. The case was thus:
On the 29th of M'ay, 1860, Brown, who was then and still
is a citizen and resident of Virginia, being at the time in
VOL. xv.

12

BROWN v. HIATTS.

[Sup. Ct.

Statement of the case.

Kansas, lent to the defendants, citizens of that State, the
sum of $2000, at interest, at the rate of 20 per cent. a year,
and took the bond in suit, payable in twelve months, for the
amount, with the interest for the period included, making
the sum of $2400, the whole drawing the stipulated interest
after maturity.* As security for the payment of this bbnd
with interest, and simultaneously with its execution, Hiatt
and wife made and delivered to Brown the mortgage in suit,
which covers three hundred and twenty acres, in the county
of Leavenworth, in that State.
With the execution of the bond, and as further or collateral security for its payment, the defendant, liatt, assigned
to the complainant a mortgage held by him upon certain
real property in Kansas, executed by one Kenyon and his
wife, to secure their joint note for $800, made in December,
1858, and payable in December, 1860, with interest at 6 per
cent. a year. Upon this note there was then a credit of $75.
At the same time the defendant, Hiatt, also assigned to
the complainant for the like further or collateral security a
judgment rendered in his favor upon the foreclosure of a
mortgage against one Perkins, in the District Court of the
United States for the District of Kansas, on the 6th of June,
1859, for $763, and costs. This judgment drew 7 per cent.
a year. The assignment was absolute in its terms, but it is
admitted to have been executed as further or collateral
security for the payment of the bond in suit.
The complainant, as stated, was at the time a citizen and
resident of Virginia, and soon after the completion of the
transaction in question he returned to that State, carrying
with him the bond and mortgage, and retained them there
in his possession until September, 1805. His residence was
all this time in that portion of the State which was declared
by the proclamation of the President to be in insurrection
against the government of the United States, and was during the entire period of the war, until the surrender of the
"* The law of Kansas, then in force, allowed parties to agree for the payment of.any rate of interest on money due or to become due upon any contract.

Dec. 1872.]

BRowN v. ] IATTS.
Statement of the case.

Confederate forces by General Lee, under the domination of
the Confederate government.
At the time the collaterals mentioned were assigned it
was agreed, in consequence of the residence of the complainant in Virginia, that the defendant, Hiatt, should exercise such oversight over them as would be necessary to
preserve them for the purposes for which they were appropriated, so that resort might be had to them if the mortgage to the complainant should prove to be insufficient
security.
In April, 1861, some correspondence was had between the
complainant and Htiatt respecting these collaterals, in which
the complainant expressed a desire that the conveyance of
any property struck off to him on a sale under the Perkin
judgnment, should show on its face that the property was
only held as collateral security, and in which Hiatt stated
that he had a prospect of paying off the mortgage to the
complainant by the proceeds of work on a contract in Pennsylvania during the coming summer. No intimation was
made on either side of any agreement, by which the collaterals wore, under any circumstances, to be taken in satisfaction of the bond and mortgage in suit.
On the 17th of April, of that year, the Convention of Virginia passed the ordinance of secession, purporting to take
the State from the Union. The proclamation of President
Lincoln declaring a blockade of her ports followed on the
27th of the same month, and the war commenced. From
the time of its recognition until its termination, or at least
until the cessation of active hostilities, all commercial intercourse between the parties, except by special license of the
government, was illegal, and by the act of Congress of July
13th, of that year, and the subsequent proclamation of the
President, was expressly interdicted.
During this period of non-intercourse and early in 1863,
Hiatt went to the office of the district attorney of the United
States in Kansas, and stated to that officer that the complainant had large claims against persolis living in the State,
secured by mortgages on real property, which were subject

BROWN V. HIATTS.

[SuD. CL

Statement of the case.

to confiscation; and in enumerating the debtors of the complainant, stated that he himself owed that person a considerable sum of money secured by mortgage on his farm, the
amount of which he could not state, but it was the amount
for which the mortgage was given, and that he would much
prefer paying it to the government rather than to the complainant. This was the first intimation that the district
attorney had that the complainant held any claims in Kansas subject to confiscation. Upon the suggestion thus made,
that officer proceeded to examine the records of the county,
and found among them the record of the bond and mortgage to the complainant. He thereupon instituted proceedings for their confiscation in the District Court of the United
States for the District of Kansas, under the act of Congress
of March 17th, 1862. To the information the defendants
appeared and filed an answer, verified by the oath of Hiatt,
in which they alleged that they were not indebted and had
not been indebted to the complainant since May, 1861, upon
the bond and mortgage executed by them. And they set
up in substance that the bond and mortgage had been paid
and satisfied by the Perkins judgment, or the property purchased under it, and the Kenyon note and mortgage, pursuant to a verbal agreement made at the time the bond and
mortgage were executed.
Upon the trial of this question of payment and satisfaction, Hiatt produced what purported to be a letter from the
complainant which supported the averment as to the agreement mentioned. The district attorney, believing the letter
to be genuine and the testimony of Hiatt in support of it
trustworthy, dismissed the proceedings, and instituted other
proceedings for the confiscation of the Kenyon note and
mortgage. These resulted in a sale of a part of the premises covered by that mortgage, and the proceeds of the sale
were paid into court. In the meantime the Perkins judgment, owing to a defective acknowledgment of the mortgage on which it was given, proved to be entirely valueless,
and the property upon which it was a lien, was sold to
satisfy a prior incumbrance.

Dec. 1872.]

BROWN V. HIATTS.

Statement of the case.

The present suit was commenced in February, 1867, and
the defences made to it were substantially these:
1st. That a verbal agreement was entered into between
the parties at the time the bond and mortgage were executed, by which the complainant was to take in their satisfaction, at the election of the defendants, the Perkins judgment and the Kenyon note and mortgage, and that the
defendants, in 1862, made such election, which was acceded
to and accepted by the complainant. The election thus
made was alleged by the defendants to have been communicated to the complainant by letter, sent by mail, and his
acceptance of the collaterals was alleged to have been contained in a letter received by mail, from him, in which he
stated that he should henceforth hold the collaterals as his
own property in satisfaction of the bond in suit. These
letters were not produced by the defendants in this case,
but were alleged to have been lost. And it appeared that
communication by mail between that portion of Virginia in
which Brown, the complainant, resided, and Kansas, ceased
in 1861, and was not re-established until after the cessation
of hostilities in 1865.
2d. That the right of the complainant to maintain the
suit was barred by the statute of limitations of the State of
Kansas, which requires a suit of this character to be brought
within three years after the cause of action has accrued;
and3d. That the Perkins judgment and Kenyon note and
mortgage had become valueless, and were lost through the
neglect of the complainant, and that he should, therefore,
be charged with their full amount. The defendants also
alleged that the debt against Kenyon was confiscated by
judgment of the District Court as the property of the complainant.
The Circuit Court leld that the alleged verbal agreement
was not proved, and that the statute of limitations of Kansas
did not run against the right of action of the complainant
during the continuance of the civil war, but allowed the
amount of the Kenyon note, alleged to have been confis-

B ROWN V. IHIATTS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

cated by the proceedings taken for that purpQse, on the demand of the complainant, and gave judgment for the balance
and a decree for the foreclosure of the mortgage and sale of
the premises, if the amount found due was not paid within
a designated period. From this decree both pat-ties have
appealed to this court.
Messrs. Conway Robinson and -. S. Brown, for Brown; Mr.
A. G. Riddle, for the JHiats.
Air. Justice FIELD, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the ourt, as follows:
We fully concur in the conclusion of the Circuit Court
that the alleged verbal agreement between the parties that
the complainant should take the Perkins judgment and
Kenyon note, at the election of the defendants, in satisfaction of the bond and mortgage in suit, is not proved. The
existence of any agreement of the kind is positively denied
by the complainant, and all the circumstances of the case
show conclusively to our minds that no such agreement was
ever made. In the first place the amount of both collaterals, assuming them to have been perfectly good, was, at
the time the loan was made, less by several hundred dollars
than the amount lent. Then the loan drew twenty per cent.
interest a year while one of the collaterals bore interest only
at six per cent., and the other at seven per cent. a year, so
that the excess of the amount due on the loan over the
amount due on the collaterals was constantly increasing.
In the second place the letter which Hiatt pretends to have
received from the complainant recognizing the alleged verbal agreement and accepting the election of the defendants,
was not produced, and the complainant denies under oath
that he ever wrote such a letter. The latter's testimony is
corroborated by the fact that communication by mail, by
which means Hiatt pretends to have received the letter, had
long before ceased between that portion of Virginia in which
the complainant resided and the loyal portion of the United
States. In the third place the statements of Hiatt made to

Dec. 1872.]

BROWN V. HIATTS.
Opinion of the court.

several parties at different times were inconsistent with the
existence of any agreement of the kind mentioned. In 1863
he stated to the district attorney that he owed the complainant the entire amount secured by his mortgage, and
this was more than a year after the pretended satisfaction of
the bond and mortgage in suit. The story put forth by the
defendants is contradicted by the testimony of the complainant, is intrinsically improbable, and is irreconcilable with
their repeated statements to others, and with their answer
to the information in the confiscation proceedings. The
case well illustrates the wisdom of the rule.of law and the
importance of its enforcement, that parol testimony of a verbal agreement shall not be permitted to vary or contradict
the terms of a written contract made at the same time. The
contract here in writing shows that the Kenyon note and
mortgage were assigned as collateral security. The object
of the testimony was to prove that a different agreement
was really made, namely, that the note should be held as
such security only at the option of the defendants, and at
their election could be turned over with the Perkins judgment in full payment and satisfiation of the bond and mortgage. Had an objection been taken to. the admissibility of
this evidence it would undoubtedly have been excluded.
We concur also with the Circuit Court in its ruling, that
the statute of limitations of Kansas did not run against the
right of action of the complainant during the continuance
of the civil war. That statute required the action to be
brought within three years after the cause of action accrued,
and it constituted a rule of decision in the National courts
equally as in the courts of that State. The cause of action
in this case accrued on the 29th of M\ay, 1861. At that
time the civil war embraced Virginia, or at least that portion of the State in which the complainant resided.
It was held in the case of The Protector * that the war began in that State at the date of the proclamation of intended
blockade of her ports by the President. That was the first
public act of the executive in which the existence of war in
* 12 Wallace, 700.

BROWN V. HIATTS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

that State was officially recognized, and to its date the courts
therefore look as the commencement of the war. And so
far as the operation of the statute of limitations is concerned,
it was held in the same case that the war continued until
proclamation was in like manner officially made of its close.
That occurred on the 2d of April, 1866. The period, therefore, between the 27th of April, 1861, and the 2d of April,
1866, must be excluded in the computation of the time
during which the statute has run against the right of action
of the complainant on the bond and mortgage in suit, and
being excluded the present suit is not barred.
It is unnecessary to go at length over the grounds upon
which the court has repeatedly held that the statutes of limitation of the several States did not run against the right of
action of parties during the continuance of the civil war. It
is sufficient to state that the war was accompanied by the
general incidents of a war between independent nations;
that the inhabitants of the Confederate States on the one
hand, and of the loyal States on the other, became thereby
reciprocally enemies to each other, and were liable to be so
treated without reference to their individual dispositions or
opinions; that during its continuance all commercial intercourse and correspondence between them were interdicted
by principles of public law as well as by express enactments
of Congress; that all contracts previously made between
them were suspended; and that the courts of each belligerent
were closed to the citizens of the other.
Statutes of limitation, in fixing a period within which
rights of action must be asserted, proceed upon the principle
that the courts of the country where the person to be prosecuted resides, or the property to be reached is situated, are
open during the prescribed period to the suitor. The principle of public law which closes the courts of a country to a
public enemy during war, renders compliance by him with
such a statute impossible. As is well said in the recent case
of Semmes v. -HartfordInsurance Company,* "The law im* 13 Wallace, 160.

Dec. 1872.]

:BROWN V.

H[IATTS.

Opinion of the court.

poses the limitatioh and the law imposes the disability. It
is nothing, therefore, but a necessary legal logic that the
one period should be taken from the other."
As the enforcement of contracts between enemies made
before the war is suspended during the war, the running of
interest thereon during such suspension ceases. Interest is
the compensation allowed by law, or fixed by the parties,
for the use or forbearance of money, or as damages for its
detention, and it would be manifestly unjust to exact such
compensation, or damages, when the payment of the principal debt was interdicted. The question whether interest
should be allowed on such contracts during the period of
war was much considered soon after the Revolution. In
the case of Hoare v. Allen,* decided in 1789 by the Supreme
Court of Pennsylvania, it was held that interest did not run
during the war on a debt owing to an enemy, contracted
previously. "Where a person," said the court, "is prevented by law from paying the principal, he shall not be
compelled to pay interest during the prohibition." The
legislation of Congress after the commencement of the War
of the Revolution, like the legislation of 1861, prohibited
c6mmercial intercourse with the inhabitants of the enemies'
country, and the court observed that the defendant could
not have paid the debt to the plaintiff, who was an alien
enemy, without a violation of the positive law of the country
and of the law of nations, and that parties ought not to suffr
for their moral conduct and their submission to the laws:
The decision was followed by the same court in Poxeraft v.
.ffrgle, in 1791. Similar decisions were rendered by the
Court of Appeals of Virginia and the Court of Appeals of
Maryland.
The counsel for the complainant attempts to draw a distinction between those contracts in which interest is stipulated and those to which the law allows interest, and contends that the revival of the debt in the first case, after the
termination of the war, carries the interest as part of the
* 2 Dallas, 102.

BROWN V.

IHIATTS.

[Sup. Ct.

Opinion of the court.

debt; while in the latter case interest is allowed only as
damages for the detention of the money. We are, however,
of opinion that the stipulation for interest does not change
the principle, which suspends its running during war. In
the first case cited, from Pennsylvania, interest was stipuA prohibition," says Mr. Justice
lated in the contract. ",
Washiilgton, in Conn, v. Penn,* "of all intercourse with an
enemy during the war, and the legal consequence resulting
therefrom, as it respects debtors on either side, furnish a
sound, if not in all respects a just reason, for the abatement
of interest until the return of peace. As a general rule it
may be safely laid down that wherever the law prohibits the
payment of the principal, interest during the existence of
the prohibition is not demandable."
Upon the third ground of defence we are unable to agree
with the Circuit Court. We concur in its ruling that the
complainant is not justly chargeable with any neglect in the
collection of the collaterals. His residence within the Confederate States rendered it impossible for him to superintend
proceedings for their enforcement. The Perkins judgment
proved to be worthless in consequence of the defective acknowledgment of the mortgage, for the enforcement of
which the judgment was rendered, which defect gave precedence to another mortgage, under which the property was
sold and by which the proceeds were absorbed. The Kenyou note and mortgage were confiscated, and the premises,
or a part of them, covered by that mortgage, were sold by
the marshal, and the proceeds paid into court. That note
and mortgage the complainant did not own; he held them
only as collateral security for the payment of the bond of
the defendants. They were owned by the defendant, Hiatt.
He concocte d a scheme to defraud the complainant, and invented the shallow story of an agreement with him to take
the collaterals in satisfaction of the loan, although they were
less than the loan in amount by several hundred dollars.
By barefaced and impudent falsehood, and the production
* Peters's Circuit Court, 524.

Dec. 1872,.]

GOULD V. IREES.
Statement of the case.

of a fabricated letter purporting to be from the complainant,
he induced the district attorney to believe that the bond and
mortgage of the defendants had been paid and satisfied, and
that the collaterals belonged to the complainant, and as his
property their confiscation was decreed. Having thus led
the public prosecutor to treat his own property as belonging
to another, and to be confiscated as such, he must. suffer the
consequences of his own folly and crime. He cannot charge
the loss of the collaterals thus caused to the complainant.
It follows from the views we have expressed that the judgment and decree of the Circuit Court must be reversed, and
that court be directed to enter a judgment in favor of the
complainant for the amount due on the bond in suit; such
amount to be made up by adding to the principal the interest
due to the date of the judgment, at the rate stipulated, deducting the period intervening between the 27th of April,
1861, and the 2d of April, 1866; and also a decree directing
a sale of the mortgaged premises and the application of the
proceeds to the payment of the amount found due, ifsuch
amount be not paid within such reasonable period as may
be prescribed by the court. And it is
SO ORDERED.

GOULD V. REES.
1. Where three elements are claimed in a patent, in combination, the use
of two of the elements only does not infringe the patent.
2. The introduction of a newly-discovered element or ingredient, or one not
theretofore known to be an equivalent, would not constitute an infringement.
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the Western District of
Pennsylvania.
Rees sued Gould in aniaction atlaw for an alleged infringement of a patent for improvement in steam engines, dated
January 24th, 1860.
The claims of the patent were as follows:

"Having thus described the nature, construction, and opera-

