UNITED STATES v. TAYLOR.
Statement of the Case..

rendition of ins accounts that the commitment was made m
a case where it was necessary
6. An item for entering orders of court approving accounts
of officers, and copies of certificates and seals, is controlled
by the opinion- of this court m the case of United States v.
Van Duzee, 140 U. S. 169, 171, 3, United States v. Jones,
ante, 672, United States v. Ring, ante, 676.
The judgment of- the court below is, therefore,
Reversed, and the case ss remanded for further_proceedings
m conformity with ths ozonwn.

UNITED STATES v. TAYLOR.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNhITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF TENNESSEE.
iT0. 795. Submitted January 9,1893.-Decided March 6,1893.
Only one fee is allowed for taking the acknowledgment of a defendant
and his sureties unless it be made to appear that it was necessary to
take them separately.
A clerk may charge for copies of the orders of the court directing the
marshal to pay witnesses and jurors, but not for affixing seals to such
copies.
No charge can be made for filing orders from the district attorney discharging witnesses from attendance.
A fee may be charged for an affidavit of a witness as to his mileage and
attendance; but this affidavit need not be filed.
The rule, settled in United ,tates v. Xing, ante, 676, that proceedings before
a commissioner form no part of the record, applies to affidavits.
Generally anything not necessary to, support the validity of the judgment
is presumptively no part of the record, however material it may have
been in the progress of the case.
The comptroller cannot prescribe the length of capiases or bonds, or limit
a clerk to a certain number of folios.

THIs was a petition by the clerk of the Circuit Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Tennessee for fees
earned between July 1, 1887, and December 23, 1889, which

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

had been disallowed in the settlement of the accounts rendered by hn to the Treasury Department. The court
directed judgment to be entered in his favor for $1066, (45
Fed. Rep. 531,) and the United States appealed.
*Mr .Felix Brannigan and

Mr Solicmtor General for

appellants.
.Mr George A. Zing for appellee.
MP.. JusTiCE ]3nowN delivered the opinion of the court.

The government objected to the allowance by the court
below of the following items
1. For taking acknowleagments in criminal cases of defendants and their sureties to appeal bonds. It appears by the
petition that these acknowledgments were taken jointly, and
under the case of Unsted States v Ewzng, 140 U. S. 142, 146,
2, but one fee can be allowed for taking the acknowledgment of a defendant and his sureties, at least unless it be
made to appear that it was necessary to take them separately
See also Unsted States v Hall, ante, 691.
2. For certificates of the clerk and seals to copies of orders
of the court directing the marshal to pay witnesses and jurors.
Charges for copies of orders and certificates thereto are allowable, but the charge for seals is disallowed upon the authority
of United States v Tan Duzee, 140 U. S. 169, 174, 6.
3. Filing orders from the district attorney discharging
witnesses from attendance, at ten cents each, $119.80. By
Revised Statutes, ยง 877, "witnesses who are required to
attend any term of a Circuit or District Court on the part of
the United States, shall be subpoenaed to attend to testify
generally on then' behalf, and not to depart the court without
leave thereof, or of the district attorney." While it is proper
that the clerk should be informed officially by the district
attorney of the discharge of witnesses, it is difficult to see
-why the discharge should be filed. It is a piece of information for the clerk upon which he acts in computing the

UNITED STATES v. TAYLOR.
Opinion of the Court.

amount due the witnesses for mileage and attendance, and
when this is done the discharge is functus offmo. It has
accomplished all that it was ever required to do, is not needed
as a voucher, and no advantage is gamed by cumbering the
files of the court with it. The magnitude of this incumbmance
may be judged by the fact that the clerk charges for filing
in less than two and half years 1198 of these discharges, (243
were filed m a single term,) at a useless expense of $119.80.
In United States v. Eing,ante, 676, the clerk's charges for the
payment of a witness aggregated $1.15, not including the
affidavit of the witness, or this item for filing the discharge.
If these be added, it-is made to cost the government $1.40 in
clerk's fees to pay off a witness, - a tax out of all proportion
to the service rendered, or to the usual amount of the witness's compensation. This practice of multiplying fees for
the 'simple service of paying a witness compensation, which
may not exceed the amount of a single day's attendance,
should not be permitted, and the item in question will be
disallowed.
4. There is an additional claim in items 12 and 16 of $95.85
for affidavits of witnesses as to their mileage and attendance.
The clerk is entitled to a fee of ten cents for administering
the oath to witnesses respecting their mileage and attendance,
but there is no reason for preserving the affidavit as a part of
the records of the court. Tins item should be reduced accordingly It is but just to say that no -charge is made for
filing these affidavits.
5. Item 9 includes charges for papers entered by the clerk
upon the final record of the cases, and disallowed by the
Comptroller as forming no proper part of the judgment
record, and unnecessarily burdensome to the government.
When the practice of a particular State or district requires a
judgment record to be made up in each case, of course the
clerk is entitled to Ins fees for services actually and necessarily
performed in that connection. United States v. 'an Duzee,
140 U. S. 169, 176, 9. But as to what shall be incorporated
in such record, 'there is no settled practice and some diversity
of opinion.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

A record is substantially a written history of the proceedings from the beginning to the end of the case, but nothing
which is not properly matter of record can be made such by
inserting it therein. In several of the States the matters
properly incorporated in judgment rolls are enumerated by
statute. New York Code of Civil Procedure, ยง 1237, Wisconsin Code, ยง 191, California Civ. Code, ยง 670.
In .Mandeville v. Perry,6 Call, 78, the Court of Appeals of
Virginia, in answering the question "what this court will
consider as constituting the record of which it is to take notice
in.cases of common law," says "I answer, the writ for the
purpose of amending by, if necessary, the whole pleadings
between the parties. Papers of which a profert is made, or
oyer demanded. And such as have been specially submitted
to the consideration of the court by a bill of 6xceptions, a
demurrer to evidence, or a special verdict, or are inseparably
connected with some paper or evidence so referred to. These,
with the several proceedings at the rules or in court, until
the rendition of the judgment, constitute the record in any
common law suits, and are to be noticed by the court, and no
others." Mr. Chitty, in is work upon Criminal Law, says, (1
Chitty Cr. Law, 720,) that "the record in case of felony, states
the session of oyer and ternnner-the commission of the
judges -the presentment by the oath of the grand jurymen
by name -the indictment - the award of the captas or process to bring in the offender - the delivery of the indictment
into court- the arraignment- the plea- the issue - the
award of the jury process- the verdict-the asking the
prisoner why sentence should not be passed on him- and
judgment of death passed by the judges." Perhaps the most.
satisfactory definition of a common law record in a criminal
case under the American -practice is found in -Mclinney v
People, 7 Illinois, 540, 551, wherein it is said "In a criminal
case, after the caption stating the tune and place of holding
the court, the record should consist of the indictment properly
endorsed, as found by the grand jury, the arraignment of the
accused, his plea, the impanelling of the traverse jury, their
verdict, and the judgment of the court. This in general is all

UNITED STATES v. TAYLOR.
Opinion of the Court:

that the record need state." And in Dyson v State, 26 1ississippl, 362, 383, it is stated that "the record must affirmatively show those indispensable facts, without which the
judgment would be void -such as the orgamzation of the
court ;its jurisdiction of the subject-matter and of the parties,
that the cause was made up for trial, that it was submitted
to a jury sworn to try it, (if it be a case proper for a jury;)
that a verdict was rendered, and judgment awarded.'.
Mr. Freeman, m his work upon Judgments, section 79, thus
summarizes from the authorities "the matters which are not
(unless made so by bill of exceptions or by consent,. or by
order of the court) matters of record," namely- "Matters of
evidence, written or oral, including note, bond or mortgage
filed in the case, and upon which suit is brought, an agreed
statement of facts not in nature of special verdict, all motions, including motions to quash the writ, to amend the
pleadings, for extensions of time, for continuances, for bonds,
for prosecution, for bills of particulars, pleas stricken from
the files, notices of motions, affidavits of claimants, bonds for
trial of rights of property, affidavits in relation to conduct of
jurors, all affidavits taken during the progress of the cause,
memorandum of costs; power of attorney to,,confess the
judgment, and affidavit in relation to the death of the maker
thereof; report of judge of proceedings at the trial, reasons
for his opimon in rendering judgment or in deciding application for a new trial, rulings of the court upon the admission
of evidence, the instructions to the jury, statement of facts
made by the judge for the purpose of taking the advice of the
appellate court, and the~ruling of the court upon an application to strike out a portion of the pleadings."
The extent to which a judgment record should go in its
recital of the proceedings depends largely upon the purpose
is -designed for use m the
for which it is to be used. If it"
review by the appellate court of the rulings of the court
below, upon the introduction of testimony, or of the validity
of the charge to the jury, it must contain in a bill of exceptions so much of the testimony or charge as is necessary
to a clear understanding of the questions involved. But if,

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion bf the Court.

upon the -other hand, it be designed only for the purpose of
preserving a record of the conviction in pervetuam re?, memorsam, little more is necessary than to set forth the process
and return thereto, the pleadings, journal entries, verdict -and
judgment. All the authorities agree that, in a criminal case,
it should show what the prisoner is charged with, that the
court had jurisdiction of the case, that the defendant was
duly convicted and the sentence. It may be said, in general,
that anything which is not necessary to support the validity
of the judgment is, presumptively at least, no part of the
record, however material it may have been in the progress of
the case. It is entirely clear that it is unnecessary to set
forth matters merely incidental to the charge, and which
had no immediate bearing upon the result of the case, or of
the validity of the judgment. Thus, in Inglee v. Coolidge, 2
Wheat. 363, it was held by this court that the report of the
judge who tried the case at ns.prnus, containing a statement
of the facts, is not to be considered a part of the record. It
was formerly held that, even in writs of error to a state
court, the opimon of the court below was not a part of the
record, (Williams v. Norrs, 12 Wheat. 117, 119, Rector v.
Ashley, 6 Wall. 142, Gibson v CJouteau, 8 Wall. 314,) but
the inconvenience of this rule became so great that it was
subsequently changed, (Zfurdoc v. femphss, 20 Wall. 590,)
and, finally, the eighth rule of this court was so modified, m
1873, as to require a copy of the opinon to be incorporated
in the transcript. This court has also held, in Suydam v
Williamson, 20 How, 427, that the evidence and the exceptions thereto constitute no part of the record, unless incorporated m a bill of exceptions signed and sealed by the
presiding judge. See also Pomeroy v Bank of Indiana, 1
Wall. 592.
We have already held, in United States v Zing, ante, 676,
that, m the absence of a rule requiring them to be incorporated, the proceedings before a commissioner form no part
of the record, and we think the same rule applies to affidavits,
England v. Gebhardt, 112 U. S. 502, warrants, subpcenas,
capiases, except the one upon which the arrest was made, but

UNITED STATES v. TAYLOR.

101

Opinion of the Court.

that the other charges included in item 9, including the bonds
taken after indictment, captions of terms and days upon
which journal entries were made, were properly allowed.
We are also of the opinion that the Comptroller cannot prescribe the length of capiases or bonds, or limit the clerk to a
certain number of folios. This is a matter to be determined
by the practice of the court.

This disposes of all the questions raised upon the assignment of errors, and the judgment of the court below is,
therefore,
Reversed, and the case 'gemandedforf
conformity with ths optnzon.

sut.er 2roceedingssn

