OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY v.
DECATUR.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME

COUET OF THE STATE OF ILLINOIS.

No. 56. Argued November 22, 23, 1892. --:Decided January 9,1893.

The provisions in Section 22 of the act incorporating the Illinois Central
Railroad Company, (Private Laws, Ill. 1851, 61, 72,) exempting it from
taxation, do not exempt it from the payment of a municipal assessment
upon its land within a municipality in the State, laid for the purpose of
grading and paving a street therein.
An exemption from taxation is to be taken as an exemption from the burden of ordinary taxes, and does not relieve from the obligation to pay
special assessments, imposed to pay the cost of local improvements, and
charged upon contiguous property upon the theory that it is benefited
thereby.

ON February 10, 1851, an act was passed by the general
assembly of Illinois, incorporating the Illinois Central Railroad Company. Private Laws, IlL 1851, 61. By it the company was made the beneficiary of the land grant from
Congress to the State of September 20, 1850. 9 Stat. 466.
The 22d section (page 7'2) was in these words:
"SEc. 22. The lands selected under said act of Congress,
and hereby authorized to be conveyed, shall be exempt from
all taxation under the laws of this State until sold and conveyed by said corporation or trustees, and the other stock,
property and effects of said company shall be in like manner
exempt :from taxation for the term of six years from the passage of this act. After the expiration of six years, the stock,
property. and assets belonging to said company shall be listed
by the president, secretary or other proper officer, with the
Auditor of State, and an annual tax for state purposes shall
be assessed by the auditor upon all the property and assets of
every name, kind and description belonging to said corportion. Whenever the taxes levied for state purposes shall
exceed thiree-fourths of one per centum per annum, such
excess shall be deducted from the gross proceeds or income

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD v. DECATUR. 191
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

herein required to be paid by said corporation to the State,
and the said corporation is hereby exempted from all taxation
of every kind except as herein provided for. The revenue
arising from said taxation, and the said five per cent of gross
or total proceeds, receipts or income aforesaid, shall be paid
into the State Treasury, in money, and applied to the payment of interest-paying state indebtedness, until the extinction thereof: P9'ovided, In case the five per cent provided to
be paid into the state treasury, and the state taxes to be paid
by the corporation, do not amount to seven per cent of the
gross or total proceeds, receipts or income, then the said
company shall pay into the state treasury the difference, so
as to make the whole amount paid equal at least to seven per
cent of the gross receipts of said corporation."
By section 27 it was provided that "this act shall be deemed
a public act, and shall be favorably construed for all purposes therein expressed and declared in all courts and places
whatsoever."
In 1887, proceedings were had in the county court of
Macon County, to defray the cost of grading and paving a
certain street in the city of Decatur. Under those proceedings two separate parcels of land belonging to the Illinois
Central Railroad Company, and forming part of its right of
way, were assessed to the amount of $262.70. The company
objected to this assessment on the ground that by its charter
it was exempted from all taxation of every kind except as
therein provided for, and that there was no provision permitting such an assessment. This objection was overruled, and
a judgment entered by the county court against the two parcels of land. Exception was taken, and an appeal allowed to
the Supreme Court of the State. In that court the ruling of
the county court was sustained, and the judgment affirmed,
and the case is now brought here for review by writ of error.
-Mr.Benjamin F. Ayer for plaintiff in error.
The terms of the contract between the State and the railroad company are explicit. Immunity from taxation was not

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

granted to the company; but a certain rate and method of
taxation, in the nature of a commutation, was agreed upon,
and the revenues thus accruing to the State were to be received in lieu of all other taxes. The words are: "And the
said corporation is hereby exempted from all taxation of every
kind, except as herein provided for." The stipulation has all
the elements of- a legal contract. There is not only consent
on the part of the Statebbut-the coniideration to be received
by' the State was largely in excess of the customary taxes, and
therefore more than a fair equivalent for the exemption promised to the company.
The constitutional power of the legislature to make the
contract is undoubted. That was authoritatively settled .by
the Supreme Court of the State in 1855, and the decision was
affirmed in 1863. I1. Cent. Railroad v. MAeLean County, 17
Illinois, 291; .7eustadt v. ill. Cent. Railroad, 31 Illinois, 484.
The taxes in question were assessed upon portions of the
right of way of the company, that is, upon component parts
of the railroad itself. It is not pretended that they are taxes
provided for in the charter. If not, how can they be enforced
without a plain violation of the contract?
The decision of the state cobrt did not proceed upon any
denial of the binding force of the contract, but upon aninterpretation of the contract, which, it is respectfully submitted,
is manifestly contrary to its plain import, and upon certain
assumptions, which, with due deference, we say are wholly
gratuitous. The taxes in question, it is said, are special taxes,
levied on contiguous property for a local im~provement, and
caniot be regarded as burdens, because the property is supposed to receive benefits equal to the amount of the tax.
Therefore, the court said, this is not an ordinary tax, and is
not within the exemption clause of the charter.
It is quite clear, however, that the power to levy such local
taxes is referable to and can be sustained only as an exercise
of the power of taxation inherent in the State. It matters
* not how they are called - whether we style them "ordinary"
taxes or extraordinary, general or special -or whether they
are levied for. one public purpose or another; they are not

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD v. DECATUR. 193
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

the less taxes; and if they are taxes not provided for in the
charter, it is respectfully submitted that they cannot be enforced without ijnpairing the obligation of the contract.
The exemption guaranteed in the charter, is not an exemption from ordinary taxes only, but from "all taxation of every
kind except as herein provided -for." There is this 'saving
clause -"
except as herein provided for," - and there is 'no
other. These words necessarily exclude all other exceptions..
The right to impose any other tax than those thus specially
provided for is renounced and inhibited.
. It is, no doubt, an established rule, that legislative contracts
for exemption from taxation shall be donstrued with strictness,
or, in other words, that -they shall not be enlarged by construction. But this is a contract for commutation,-based on
full consideration, and it is accompanied by an express decla,ration, that the act which creates the contract "shall be
favorably construed for all purposes therein expressed or declared, in all courts and places whatsoever."
It may well be doubted whether the rule of strict construction should be applied with the same severity to such a contract as to ordinary legislative grants.
Be that as it may, it is an inflexible rule in the construction
of all statutes, both private and public, that the legislature
must be understood to have intended what is plainly expressed.
The same rule applies to the interpretation of contracts ;- and
in this respect there is no difference between the contract of
a State and the contract of a natural person. Tennessee v.
Thimtwortk, 117 T. S. 129; Hfome of the Friendless v. Rouse,
8 Wall. 430; Farrington v. Tennessee, 95 U.S. 679.
It is assumed in the opinion of the state court, that the
property of the plaintiff in error is nt protected, by the c6ntract from "special assessments" for ,trebt improvements;
and this is followed by the further assumption, that special
taxes for street improvements are in all essential respects the
same as "special assessments."
The constitution of Illinois in force from 1848 to 1870, contained the following clause in relation to municipal taxation:
'The
'
corporate authorities of counties, townships, school disvoL. cxLvir-13

OCTOBER TER7A 1892.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

tricts, cities, towns and, villages may be vested with power to
assess and collect taxes for corporate purposes; such taxes to
be uniform in respect to persons, and property within the
jurisdiction of the body imposing the same." Constitution of
1848, Art.. IX, See. 5.
Special assessments in proportion to benefits, had been sustained by the courts on the theory that they were not taxes,
and therefore not within the purview of the provisions of the
constitution limiting the 6xercise of the taxing power. Taxes,
it was said, are burdens put upon persons or property for pub-lie uses. Assessments laid on real estate for a local improvement precisely in the ratio of the advantages accruing to the
property, are not burdens, but only a compensation or equivalent for the increased value of the property derived from the
improvement. They had, it was held, none of the distinctive
features of a tax, and were not therefore within the operation
of the constitutional provision above mentioned, which required
that taxes levied for corporate purposes should be uniform in
respect to persons and property within the jurisdiction of the
body. imposing the same. Canal Trustee8 v. Chicago, 12
Illinois, 403; Peoria v. JYider, 26 Illinois, 351.
Assessments levied under the act of 1863 were not apportioned according to benefits, and the question whether they
could be discriminated from taxes, or reconciled in. any way
with the restrictions of the constitution, came before the
Supreme Court for decision soon after the passage of the act.
It was regarded by the court "as a very plain case," and the
deciiion was against their validity. City of hicago v. Laned,
34 Illinois, 203.
There has been no decision of the. Illinois Court at variance
with the doctrine in City of Chicago v. 1arned. - On the contrary the rulings there made have been: approved and followed
in all the subsequent cases relating to the same subject. We
mention only a few of them. Ottawa v. Spencer, 40 Illinois,
211; Chicago v. Baer, 41 Illinois, 306; TFright v. Chicago, 46
Illinois, 44; St. John, v. East St. LouiW, 50 Illinois, 92.
The decisions in the very cases referred to in the judgment
of. the state court now under review, as establishing the doe-

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD v. DECATUR. 195
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

trine that "exemption from taxation does not exempt from
special assessments," proceed upon the theory that special
assessments are not taxes, because they are laid in proportion
to benefits. Not one of them lends the faintest color to
the idea that a special assessment can be anything but a tax,
unless there has been an apportionment of behefits to the
burden.
The corporate authorities of the city of Decatur, for
reasons satisfactory to themselves, determined to adopt in
this case the method of special taxation. In the ordinance
directing the' improvement to be made, it was expressly provided that the costs should be defrayed "by the special taxation of the lots, parts of lots and parcels of land abutting
upon said street on both sides thereof along the line of said
improvement."
The taxes were assessed as directed by the ordinance, and
no'inquiry was made in regard to benefits, or even contemplated. Indeed, it is thoroughly settled by the decisions of the
Supreme Court of Illinois that no such inquiry is necessary, or
even permissible. - White v. People ex rel., 9: Illinois, 601;
Enos v. Sjpringfied, 113 Illinois, 65 ; Galesburg v. Searles, 114
Illinois, 217 ; Sterling v. Galt, 117 Illinois,-11; Springfied v.
Green, 120 Illinois, 269.
These references will suffice to show the nature of the
assessments attpmpted to be levied in this case upon the
property of the plaintiff in error. They are plainly taxes.
They admit of no other classification. They have been levied
without reference to any actual benefits which the property
taxed will .derive from the proposed improvement, and therefore lack the essential and indispensable element which distinguishes a "special assessment ""from a tax, as those terms
are understood in the laws of Illinois.
To say that the imposition of such taxes is not taxation, is
simply a contradiction in terms. The constitution of the State
calls it taxation. The statute under which this -proceeding is
prosecuted calls it taxation. Th q Supreme Court of Illinois,
in numerous decisions, calls it th same; and the opiiion of
the same court in the present chse -admits it to .bea kind of,

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

taxation, which is conceded not to be provided for in the
railroad company's charter.
In several well considered cases in other jurisdictions, where
assessments on property specially benefited have been authorized by statute for a street improvement, it has been held as
matter of law,,.that the roadbed or "righ t of way" of a rail,road company derives no special benefit from the paving of a
street which crosses it, and for that reason is not subject to
assessment. Piladelphia v. Phil. JMilm. & Blt. Railroad
Co., 33 Penn. St. 41; Junction Railroad Co. v. Philadelphia,
88 Penn. St. 421; 1Aew York & New Eaven Railroad Co.
v. _ew Haven, 49 Connecticut, 279; State of .New Jersey v. Flizabeth, 8 Wroom, (37 N. J. Law,) 330.
There is no warrant -for the assumptioh that special taxes,
assessed under the constitution and laws of Illinois, are not
burdens. Whether the property on which they are imposed
is specially benefited or not is held to be a wholly immaterial
question. They differ, therefore, from other taxes onlyin the
purpose for which they are levied. There is nothing in this
distinguishing feature which will enable the State, or its agencies, to evade the plain.language of the contract.
Many of the reported cases.relate to exemptions found in a
tax law for the raising of revenue for general purposes; and
it has been properly held that an exemption clausd in such
a law, expressed in general terms has reference, like all the
other provisions of the act, only to taxes of a general public
character. No different conclusion could be reached -with out violating, one of 'the most familiar rules of sfatutory
construction.
There is another class of cases in-which a distinction' has
been made between ordinary taxation in the usual mode for
general purposes, and special assessments for local improvements apportioned upon property specially benefited in proportion to, and not in excess of, the special benefits received.
It has been held in some jurisdictions, that the latter are not
burdeus, and therefore not taxes, within the meaning of*that
word as sometimes used, in. a state constitution or statute.
Thxt these cases afford no sanction, to "the'anomalous proposi-

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD v. DECATUR.

197

Opinion of the Court.

tion, that taxes assessed arbitrarily on property without regard
to special benefits, do not constitute taxation. 'There is perhaps no case which better illustrates the position we take on
the point than .Mc Gee v. Mathis, 4 Wall. 143.
. And the general principle which underlies the whole question is that when the legislature, acting on a subject entirely
within its competency, has granted a complete exemption like
the one in this case, it is not within the province of the courts
to limit it. Harvard College v. Boston4 104 Mfass. 470; B riqhtman v. .Ki0ner, 22 Wisconsin; 54; Southern Railroad Co. v.
Jackson, 38 Mississippi, 334; tew Jersey v. Newark, 3 Dutcher,
(27 lN. J. Law,) 185; Erzie v. First Universalist Church, 105
Penn. St. 278; Olive Cemetery Co. v. Philadelphia,93 Penn.
St.. 129; Richmond v. Richmond and .Danville Railroad, 21
Gratt. 604.
Mr. Hugh Crea and 21&.
error.

. . -MeDonald for defendant in

MR. JusTiE BuEwER, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the couri.

The single question in this case is, whether this special tax
for a local improvement is within the exemption from taxation granted to the railroad com alny by section 22 of the act
of 1851.
Between taxes, or general taxes as they are sometimes
called by way of distinction, which are the exactions placed
,upon the citizen for the support of the government, paid to
\he State as a State, the consideration of which- is protection
by the State, and special taxes or special assessments, which
are imposed upon property within a limited area for the payment for a local improvement supposed to enhance the value
of all property within that area, there is a broad and clear
line of distinction, although both of them are properly called
taxes, and the proceedings for their collection are by the same
officers and by substantially similar methods. Taxes proper,
or general taxes, proceed upon the-theor that the existence

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

of government is a necessity; that it cannot continue without
means to pay its expenses; that for those means it has the
right to compel all citizens and property within its limits to
contribute; and that for such contribution it renders no return
of special benefit to any property, but only secures to the
citizen that general benefit which results from protection to
his person and property, and the promotion of those various
schemes which have for their object the welfare of all. "The
public revenues are a portion that each subject, gives of his
property in order to secure or enjoy the remainder." Montesq.
Spirit of the Laws, book 13, c. 1; Loan Association v. To2 eka,
20 Wall. 655, 664; Opinions of Judges, 58 Maine, 591; Banson v. Vernon, 27 Iowa, 28, 47; Judd v. D,'iver, 1 Kansas,
455, 462; PhiladephiaAssociation v. Wood, 39 Penn. St. 73,
82; Exchange Bank v. Rines, 3 Ohio St. 1, 10.
On the other hand, special assessments or special taxes proceed upon the theory that when a local improvement enhances
the value of neighboring property that property should pay
for the improvement. In TFright v. Boston, 9 Gush. 233, 241,
Chief Justice Shaw said: "When certain persons are so placed
as to have a common interest among themselves, but in common with the rest of the community, laws may justly be
made, providing that, under suitable and equitable regulations, those common interests shall be so managed, that those
who enjoy the benefits shall equally bear the burden." In
.oGonigle v. Allegheny City, 44 Penn. St. 118, 121, is this
declaration: "All these municipal taxes for improvement of
streets, rest, for their final reason, upon the enhancement
of private properties." In -Litekfield v. 'Fernon,41 N. Y. 123,
133, it was stated that the principle is, "that the territory
subjected thereto would be benefited by the work and change
in question." In Cooley on Taxation (page 416, c. 20, § 1)
the matter is thus discussed by the author: "Special assessments are a peculiar species of taxation, standing apart from
the general burdens imposed f6r state and municipal purposes,
and governed by principles that do not apply generally. The
general levy of taxes is understood to exact contributions in
return for the general benefits of government, and it promises

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD v. DECATUR. 199
Opinioi of the Court.

nothing to the persons taxed beyond what may be anticipated
from an administration of the laws for individiial protection
and the general public good. Special assessments, on the
other hand, are made upon the assumption that a portion of
the community is to be specially and peculiarly benefited, in
the enhancement of the value of property peculiarly situated
as regards a contemplated expenditure of public funds; and
in addition to the general levy, they demand that special contributions, in consideration of the. special beilefit, shall be
made by the persons receiving it. The justice of. demanding
the special contribution is supposed to be evident in the fact
that the persons who are to make it, while they are made to
bear the cost of a; public wotk, are at the same time to suffer
no pecuniary loss thereby, their property being increased in
value by the expenditure to an amount at least equal to the
sum they are required to pay. This is the idea that underlies
all these levies. As in the case of all other taxation, it may
sometimes happen that the expenditure will fail to realize the
expectation on which the levy is made; and it may thus
appear that a special assessment has been laid when justice
would have required the levy of a general tax; but the
liability of a principle to erroneous or defective application
cannot demonstrate the unsoundness of the principle itself,
and that which suppbrts special assessijients is believed to be
firnly based in reasoh and justice."
These distinctions have been recognized and stated by the
courts of almost every State in the Union, and a collection of
the cases may be found in any of the leading text-books on taxation. Founded on thi distinction is a rule of very general
acceptance- that an exemption from taxation is to be taken as
an exemption simply from the burden of ordinary taxes, taxes
proper, and does not relieve from the obligation to pay special
assessments. Thus in an early case, In, the -Matter of the
.Mayor &c. of _Yew York, 11 Johns. 77 80, under a statute
which provided that no chwuch 'orpl~ce of public worship
"should be taxed by any law of this State," the court ob-

served: "The word 'taxes' means bui4isn,'6harges or impositions put or set upon persons or property for public uses,

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

and this is the definition which Lord Coke gives to the word
talliage, (2 Inst. 532j) and Lord Holt, in Carth. 438, gives the
same definition, in substance, of the word tax. The legisla•tdre intended, by that exemption, to relieve religious and
literary institutions from these public burdens, and the same
exemption was extended to the real estate of any minister, not
exceeding in value fifteen hundred dollars. But to pay for the
opening of a street, in a ratio to the Ibenefit or advantage'
derived from it, is no burden. It is no talliage or tax within
the meaning of the exemption, and has no claim upon the
public benevolence. Why should not the real estate of a
minister, as well as of other persons, pay for such an improvement in proportion as it is benefited? . There is no inconvenience or hardship in it, and the maxim of law that qui sentit
commodum debet sentire onus, is perfectly consistent with the
interests and dictates of science and religion2'
This rule of exemption has been applied in cases where the
language granting the exemption has been broad .and comprehensive. Thus in -Baltimore v. Greenranount Cemetery, 7
Maryland, 517, the exemption was- from any tax or public
imposition whatever," and it was held not to relieve from the
obligation to pay'for the paving of the street in front. In
Bufalo City Cemetery v. Bufalo, 46 T. Y. 506, the exemption was from "all public taxes, rates and assessments," and it
was held not to discharge from liability fo{a paving assessment.
A like rule was held in .Patterson,v. Society for Afanufactures,
24: l. J. Law. (4 Zabr.) 385, where the exemption was from
"taxes, charges and impositions." And in Bridgeport v.
'New York & -Yew Haven Railroad,36 Connecticut, 255, the
railroad company was held liable for a street assessment,
although it paid a sum of money to the State whreh, by its
charter, was to be "in lieu-of all other taxes."
Indeed, the rule has been so frequently enforced that, as a
general proposition, it may be -considered as thoroughly establishp.d in this country. It is unnecessary to refer to the cases
generally. It may be well, however, to notice those from
Illinois. In Canal Trustees v. Cticago, 12 Illinois, 403, 406,
decided in the lower court at M[ay term, 1849, and before the

*

ILLINOIS CONTRAL RAILROAD v. DEOATUIR. 201
Opinion of the Court.

passage of the act creating the contract, relied upon, and by
the Supreme Court at the June term, 1851, the exemption
was "from taxation of every description by and under the
laws of this State," ind it was held that that did not 'include
an assessment made to defray the expense of opening a street.
It was observed: "In our opinion the exemption must be held
to apply only to taxes levied for State, county and municipal
purposes. A tax is imposed for somegeneral or public object.
-.
The assessment in question has none"of the distinctive
features uf a tax It is imposed for a special purpose, andnot
for a general orTpublio object." See also Chicago v. Colby, 20
Illinois, 614;: Peoriav. .idder, 26 Illinois, 351; Pleasant v.
-Host, 29 Illinois, 490; 494; llinois Central Railroad v. East.
Lae .Fork Drainage District,129 Illinois, 411. Nor is this
a mere arbitrary distinction created by the courts, but one
resting on strong and obvious reasons. A grant of exemption
is never to be considered as a mere gratuity -a simple gift
from the legislature. No such intent to throw away the
revenues of the State, or to create arbitrary discriminations
between the holders of property, can be hnputed. A consideration is presumed to exist. The recipient of the exemption
may be supposed to be doing part of the work which the
State would otherwise be under obligations to do. A college,
or an academy, furnishes edudation to the young, which it is a
part of the State's duty to furnish. The State is bound to provide highways for its citizensa and-r ailioad company in part
discharges that obligation. Gr-the-r~cipient may be doing a
work which adds to the materia-prosperity or elevates the.
moral "cbracter of the people; -manufactories have been
exempted, but only .inthe belief that thereby large industries.
will be. created and the material prosperity hicreased; churches'
and charitable institutions, because they tend to a better order
of society. 'Orit may be that a sum, in gross or annual'instalments, is received in lien of taxes. But in every case there is
the implied fact of some consideration passing for the grant
of exemption. But those considerations as a rule pass to the
public generally, and do not Work the enhancement pf the
value of any particular area of'property. So 'when the cou-

OCTOBER TEIM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

sideration is received by the public asa.whole, the exemption
should be and -is of that which otherwise would pass to such
public, to wit, general taxes.
Another matter is this: In a general way it may be said
that the probable amount 'of future taxes can be estimated.

While of course no mathematical certainty exists, yet there is
a reasonable uniformity in the expenses of the government, so
that there can be in advance an approximation of what is
given when an exemption from taxation is granted, if only
taxes proper are within the grant. -But when you enter the
domain of special assessments there is no basis for estimating
in advanc.e what may be the amount of such assessments.
Who can tell what the growth of the population will be in
the vicinity of the exempted property? Will there be only a
little village or a large city? Will, the local improvements
Which the business interests of that vicinity demand be trifling
in amount, or very large? What may be the. improvements
which the necessities of the case demand? Nothing can be
more indefinite and uncertain than these matters; and it is not
to be expected that the legislature would grant an exemption
of such unknown magnitude with no correspoiding return of'
consideration therefor.
-And, again, as special assessments proceed upon the theory
that the property. charged therewith is enhanced in value by
the improvement, the enhancement of value being the consideration for the charge, upon what principles of justice can
one tract within the area of the property enhancecd in value
be released from sharing in the expense of such improvement?
Is there any way in which it returns to the balance' of the
property within that area any equivalent for a release from a
share in the burden? Whatever may be the supposed consideration to the public for an exemption from general taxation,
does it return to the property within the area any larger
equivalent with the improvement than without it? If it confers a benefit upon the public, whether the general public or
that near at hand, a benefit which justifies an exemption from
taxation, does it confer any additional benefit upon the limited
area -byreason of sharing in the enhanced value springing

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD v. DECATUR. 203
Opinion. of the Court.

from the improvement ? Obviously not. The local improvement has no relation to or effect-upon that which the exempted
property gives to the public as consideration for its exemption; hence, there is manifest inequity in relieving it fro]4 a
share of the cost of the improvement. So when the rule is
laid down that the exemption from taxation only applies to
taxes proper it is not a mere arbitrary rule, but one founded
upon principles of natural justice.
But it is said that it is within the competency of the legislature, aving full control over the inatter of general taxation
and special assessments, to exempt any particular property
from the burden of both, and that it is not the province of the
courts, when such entire exemption has been made, to attempt
to limit or qualify it upon their own ideas of natural justice.
Thus in the case of HarvardCollege v. Boston,, 104 Mass. 470,
an assessment for altering a street was held within the language of the college charter exempting the property "from
all civil impositions, taxes and rates." ' See also the follbwing
authorities: Brightman v. Kner, 22 Wisconsin, 54.; Southern
Railroad v. Jaqlconm 38 Mississippi, 334; New Jersey v. 1 ewark, 3 Dutcher, (27 N. J. Law,) 185; Erie v. First Univeqsalist
Church, 105 Penn. St. 278; Olive Cemetery Co; vv..P.diadelphia, 93 Penn. St. 129; Richmond V. Richmond & -Danville
Railroad,21 Gratt, 604. This is undoubtedly true. So we
turn to the language employed in gr.nting this exemption to
see what the legislature intended, and ive notice that by the
charter certain gums are to be paid into the state treasury,
in money, and applied to the payme.Lt of interest-paying state
indebtedness itil the extinction thereof, and it is in consideration of this payment that the corporation is exempted from
all taxation of every kind. Inasmuch as the payment by the
corporation is to be always made into the state treasury, and
for a time to be applied only to a single state purpose, a very
plausible argument might be made to the effect that all that
was intended to be granted was an exemption from state
taxes, leaving the property like other property, still- subject
to municipal taxation. That question, however, is not before
us; and it has been heldiby the Supreme Court of llinois,'in

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

Neustadt v. llinois Central Railroad, 31 Illinois, 484, and
properly so in view of the jrovision in section 27 that the
act "shall be favorably construed for all purposes therein
expressed and declared," that the charter exemption extends
to all general municipal taxation.
But can any intent be derived from the language of these
exempting clauses to include within them special assessments ?
Obviously not; for out of the state treasury seldom, if ever,
is money appropriated for merely local improvements. The
rule is to charge them upon the property in the vicinity, and
when the transaction between the parties, the State and the
corporation, contemplates the payment into the state treasury
of a sum in lieu of taxation, it must be held to contemplate a
release, only as to such charges as would ordinarily find their
way into the state treasury for legislative appropriation. So
that, independently of the use of the word "taxation," which
has under such circumstances received almost a uniform construction, the terms of the agreement between the State and
corporation excluded special assessments, and included only
those matters which are the ordinary equivalent of State
taxation.
. But, again, it is urged that whatever may be the rule obtaining in the courts of the States, this court has given a broader
and more extended meaning to clauses exempting from taxation, aiid the case of IXcGee v. .Mathis,4 Wall. 143, is cited.
But the case does not warrant the contention. The facts in
that case were these: In 1850 the United States granted to
the State of Arkansas all the swamp and overflowed government lands within its limits, on condition that the proceeds of
the lands, or the lands themselves, should be applied as far as
possible for reclaiming them by means, of levees and drains.
The State accepted the grant, and by an act of the legislature
in 1851 provided for the sale of the lands. In the 14th section
of this act it was provided that, "To encourage, by all just
means, the progress and the completing of the reclaiming
such lands, by offering inducements to purchasers and contractors to take up said lands, all said swamp and 6verflowed
lands shall be exempt from taxation for the term of ten years,

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD v. DECATUR. 205
Opinion of the Court.

or until they shall be reclaimed.", In 1855 this section was
repealed, but prior thereto McGee had become the owner of
certain of these lands lying in Ohicot County. In 1857 an
act of the legislature, local in its nature, provided for the
making of levees and drains i Chicot County, and authorized
a special tax to meet the cost. This special tax was assessed
upon the unreclaimed swamp lands of McGee as well as other
lands, and the question was, whether this special tax impaired
the contract of exemption provided by the 14th section of the
act of 1851, and it was held that it did. The argument is
thus stated by the Chief Justice, in delivering the opinion of
the court, on page 157: "It was strenuously urged for the
defendant that the exemption contemplated by the statute
was exemption from general taxation, and not from special
taxation for local improvements benefiting the land, such as
the making of levees, and many authorities were cited in
support of this view. The argument would have great force
if the provision for exemption had been contained in a general
tax law, or in a law in framing which the legislature might
reasonably be supposed to have in view general taxation only.
But the priovision under consideration is found in a law provi~ling for the construction of levees and drains, and devoting
to that object funds supposed to be more than adequate,
derived fromn the very lands exempted, and the exemption is
for ten years or until reclaimed, and is offered as an inducement to take up The lands and thus furnish those funds. It
is impossible to say that this exemption was not from taxation
for the purpose of making these levees and drains as- well
as from taxation in general. Any other constrgction would
ascribe to the legislature an intention to "take the whole land
for the purposes of the improvement, and then to load it with
taxation for the same object in the handsof :purchasers whom
it had led to expect exemption fro.m.alitaxation, 4t least until
the ]and should be reclaimed."
In other words, the general rule w hwe 1aw - been considering was recognized, but its applioabilitjva'
wasenied.by
the court, and properly so. In order to -create a fud io.reclaim these lanis from overflow, the State soldtheA -exempted

206 -

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

from taxation. To turn around after such sale and charge
the cost of reclamation upon the same lands would nullify
the purpose for which they were sold. It is precisely as
though the State had sold a body of lands for the specific
purpose of raising funds to build a state house, and, then,
after the sale and receipt of the money, had turned around
and charged the cost of building such state house upon the
very lands sold. By the sale the land was once appropriated
to a given purpose, and could not be burdened a second time
for the same purpose. It would be practically a second appropriation, which nullified that created by the sale. There is
nothing in this case, therefore, which announces a doctrine
in conflict with that we have been considering, and which has
been recognized in all the States.
But, finally, it is urged that if this exemption does not
include special assessments, the constitution of Illinois of 1870
recognizes a. distinction between special taxes and special
assessments, and that in .this. case the charges are special
taxes rather than special assessments, and therefore to be
included within the exemption of ihe charter., Section 2 of
article 9 of the constitution of 1848, which was in'force at the
time of the charter of the railroad company, is as follows:
"The general assembly shall provide for levying a tax by
valuation, so that every person or corporation shall pay a tax
in proportion to his or her property." Section 5 of the same
article contained this as to local taxation: "The corporate
authorities of counties, townships, school districts, cities, towns
and villages may be vested with power to assess and collect
taxes for corporate purposes; such taxes to be uniform in
respect to persons and property within the jurisdiction of the
body imposing the same"; while in section 11 of article 3
was the ordinary provision -that no property should be taken
or applied to public use without just compensation: And
under that constitution it was ruled, in the case pf hCcago
v. larned,34 liiois, 203, that "an assessment for improvements made on the basis of the frontage of Jots upon the
street to be improved is invalid, containing neither the element
of equality nor uniformity "fassessed under the taxing powers,

ILLINOIS CENTRAL RAILROAD v. DECATUR. 207.
Opinion of the Court.

and equally invalid if in the exercise of the right of eniihent
domain, no compensation being provided." In quite an elaborate opinion the court held substantially that special assessments could only be imposed in proportion to the benefits
actually received by the property upon which they were
charged, and, that in the absence of an ascertainment of such
special benefits thd expense must be borne by the entire
property of the city. This decision Was reaffirmed in Ottawa
v. S8peneer, 40 Illinois, 211. Suibsequently, and in 1870, a new
constitution was adopted, section 9 of article 9 of which is
as follows: "The general assembly may -vest the corporate
authorities of cities, towns and villages with power to make
local improvements by special assessment, or by special taxation of contiguous property or otherwise. For all corporate purposes, all municipal corporations may be vested with
authority to assess and collect taxes, but such taxes shall be
uniform, in respect to persons and property, wfthin the jurisdiction of the body imposfng the same." And this came
before the Supreme Court in the case of T7ite v. The People
er tel., 94 Illinois, 604, and it was held that the city council
had power to charge the cost of a sidewalk upon the lots
touching it, in proportion to their frontage thereon;. that
whether or not the special tax exceeded the actual benefit
to the lots taxed, was not material; that it may be supposed
to be based upon a presumed equivalent; and that where the
proper authorities determine the frontage to be the proper
measure of benefits, this determination could be neither disputed nor disproved, and the cases in n4 and 40 Illinois, supra,
were held to be inapplicable. This dbcision has been reaffirmed in Craw v. Tolono, 96 Illinois, 255; Enos v. SpringJfeld, 113 Illinois, 65; Sterling v. Galt, 117 Illinois, 11;
Springfleld v. Green, 120 Illinois, 269.
But the difference between the two constitutions is simply
in the mode of ascertaining the benefits, artd does not change
the essential fact that a charge like the one here ihcontroversy
is for the cost of a local improvement, and is 6haxged upon
the contiguous property upon the, theory that it is berefited
thereby. This is the interpretation put upon the matter by

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

the Supreme Court of Illinois. In Wldte v. People, 94 linois, 604, 613, it'was said: "Whether or not the special tax
exceeds the actual benefit to the lot, is not material It may
be supposed to be based on a presumed equivalent. The city
council have determined the frontage to be the proper measure
of probable benefits. That is generally considered as a very
reasonable measure of benefits in the case of such an improvement." So also in Craw v. Tolono, 96 Illinois, 255, it is said:
"Special taxation as spoken of in our constitution is based
upon the supposed benefit to the contiguous property, and
differs from special assessments only in the mode of ascertaining the benefits. In the case of special taxation, the imposition of the tax by the corporate authorities is of itself a
determination that the benefits to the contiguous property
will be as great as the burden of the expense of. the improvement, and that such benefits will be so nearly limited, or
confined in their effect, to contiguous property, that no serious
injustice will be done by imposing the whole expense upon
such property." And in Sterling v. Galt, 111 Illinois, 11, in
which the difference between special assessment and special
taxation was noticed, it was held that the whole.of the burden
in case of special taxation was imposed upon the contiguous
property upon the hypothesis that the benefits will be equal
to the burden.
We do not suppose that the company had by its charter
any contract with the State that the matter of special benefit
resulting from a local improvement should be ascertained and
determined only in the then existing way. There was nothing
in the terms of that contract to prevent the State from committing the final determination of the question of benefits to
the city council rather than leaving the matter of ascertainment to a jury. And whether the charges arecalled special
taxes or special assessments, and by whatever tribunal- or by
whatever mode the question of benefits may be determined,
the-fact remains that the charges are for a local'improvement,
and cast upon tle contiguous property, upon the assumption
that it has received- a benefit from such improvement, which
benefit justifies the charge. . The charges here are not taxes

