NEW ORLEANS v. PAIN
Statement of the Case.

NEW ORLEANS v. PAINE.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED

STATES CIRCUIT COURT

OF APPEALS

FOR THE FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 1154. Submitted January 4,1893. -Decided

January 16, 1803.

While the location of the boundary lines of a land grant is pending before
the Land Department, and the pxoper officers are bringing to bear upon
it their own judgment and discretion, the courts have no right to interfere with their action by injunction.
The general rule is that the judicial power will not interpose, by mandamus or
injunction, to limit or direct the action of departmental officers in respect
of matters pending, within their jurisdiction and control

THIS was a bill in equity filed in the Circuit Court for the
Easterm District of Louisiana, by the city of New Orleans,
suing as residuary legatee under the will of John McDonough,
deceased, against the deputy surveyor general of the United
States for the State of Louisiana, to enjoin him from surveying
and locating a new back line or rear boundary of a French
grant, andfrom dividing into sections lands alleged to belong
to the plaintiff north of, and contiguous to, such new back line.
The grant in question was made April 3, 1769, by the
proper authorities of the Province of Louisiana, then an
appanage of the French crown, to Pierre Delille Dupard, and
was described as" thirty arpents of front to the river, upon
the whole depth which shall be found unto Lake Maurepas, of
the land where heretofore were two villages of the Collapissas
savages," etc. Upon the acquisition of the Territory of Louisiana by the ITnited States, under the treaty of 1803, the greater
part of this grant was confirmed to John McDdnough, Jr. &
Co., and was described by the board of 'land commissioners as
having "1thirty-two arpents front on the Mississippi River,
with a depth as far as the Lake Maurepas, with side. lines
diverging as they extended into the interior," etc. McDonough having purchased the interest of his partner, devised his
portion of the grant, upon certain charitable uses, to the cities
of New Orleans and Baltimore, and upon partition made be-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of -the Case.

tween the said devisees, the lands described in the bill fell to
the plaintiff. In due course the government surveyed and
fixed the front and side lines 'of the grant, but it seems that
neither of these lines touched Lake Maurepas, nor was it
included between them. When, in 1885, the State of Louisiana, claiming adversely to the city of New Orleans under the
swamp land grant of March 2, 1849, 9 Stat. 352, c. 817, raised
the question before the General Land Office as to what deta
the claims were entitled, the surveyor general of Louisiana, to
whom the matter had been referred, decided that the grant
should extend to Lake Maurepas and the Amite River,
by
extending its lower side line back to said water boundary.
On appeal to the Commissioner of the General Land Office, the
decision of the surveyor general was affirmed; but on further
appeal to the Secretary of the Interior, Mr. Lamar, he decided
on January 6, 1888, that the depth of the grant should be
determined by a straight line drawn through the centre of the
grant from the front to the rear, terminating at the point
of intersection of a line drawn at right angles thereto, so as
to touch the lowest point of the southern shore of-Lake
Maurepas.
The matter was referred to the surveyor general of Louisiana, who directed the defendant Paine, as deputy surveyor, to
examine carefully the southern, shore line of Lake Maurepas,
and, if entirely satisfied from reliable evidence, that there had
been a change in said shore line since the grant was made in
1769, he was to run the line according to such locatiou, and
not according to its then location. These instructions were
approved by the Commissioner of the General Land Office,
under date of March 4, 1890. The defendant, the deputy
survey6r, proceeded under these instructions, and satisfied
himself that the southern shore line of Lake Maurepas had,
for an indefinite time, been a moving line, slowly extending
itself south and southwest; but as'o where the shore line was
in 1169, he could form no definite c6nclusion. "The only
thing which seemed certain is that it was a long way from
where it now is, and in fixing upon the distance

.

..

I

have tried to adopt a location which would probably give the

NEW ORLEANS v. PAINE.
Counsel for Appellant.

claims all the depth they are entitled to without extending
them so far as some of the evidence would require." The bill
averred that this survey was approved by the surveyor general,
and was forwarded to the Commissioner of the General Land
Office, "and thereupon, and in due official course, the said surveys of the said R. B. Paine were duly paid for by the United
States, including his said survey and location of said back line
of said Dupard grant.2
This survey seems, however, never to have been formally approved, and on May 14, 1891, Mr. Chandler, then acting Secretary of the Interior, wrote to the Commissioner of the General
Land Office, saying that he found nothing in the decision
of the department of January 6, 1888, to indicate that it was
the intention of the Secretary to authorize an investigation as
to whether the shore of the lake had been changed since 1769;
but, on the contrary, it seemed to be clearly indicated that the
southern shore of the lake, as it now exists, should be fixed
absolutely as the starting point and determine the back line of
the said grant. "You will instruct the surveyor general accordingly." In pursuance of this, the Commissioner of the
General Land Office instructed the surveyor general to enter
into a new contract with some competent deputy for the establishment of the back line from the southern shore of the lake
as it now exists, and thereupon a n~w contract was entered
into with the defendant Paine for a resurvey upon the basis
of such instructions. Thereupon plaintiff filed this bill to enjoin such resurvey.
A restraining order was issued upon the filing of the bill, and
a day fixed for the hearing of the motion for an injunction.
A demurrer being .filed to the bill, the case was brought to a
hearing upon bill and demurrer, and a decree entered denying
the injunction and dismissing the bill. 49 Fed. Rep. 12.
From this decree an appeal was taken and allowed to the Circuit Court of Appeals, by which court the decree of the Circuit
Court was affirmed and an appeal allowed to this court.
2 U. S. App. 330.
Mr. J Z. Bradforlfor appellant.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.

264

Opinion of the Court.

Mr. Asitant
Ma.JUSTiCE

Attorney @eneral .aury for appellee.

BRowN delivered the opinion of the court.

This case turns upon the power of the court to enjoin the
action of an officer of the Land Department in relocating the
boundaries of a. land grant; and an injunction is demanded
upon- the theory that a former survey of the same line had
been examined, approved and paid for, and that the rights of
the plaintiff to the lands included in such survey had thereby
become vested.
In ]Yobll v. Union River Iog.ing Railroad,.decided at
the present term, (ante 165,) we had occasion to examine the
question as to when a court was authorized to interfere by
injunction with the action of the Head of a Department, and
came to the conclusion that it was only where, in any view of
the facts that could be taken, such action was beyond the scope
of his authority. If he were engaged in the performance of a
duty which involved the exercise of discretion or judgmen't, he
was entitled to protection from any interference by the judicial
power. In that. case it appeared that the only remedy of the
plaintiff was to enjoin the Secretary of the Interior from reyoking his approval of a certain map, which operated as a
grant of land. His contemplated action amounted in effectto
the cancellation of a land patent.
:So, in .this case, if it were made. to appear that the former
survey had been completed and approved in such manner that
all the lands included within the lines of the former survey
had become vested in the plaintiff, it is possible that it might
be entitled to an injunction against any act which would have
the effect of disturbing or unsettling a title thereby acquired.
But the difficulty here is-hat the facts do not exhibit- such a
case. It appears that the first survey was made under the
direction of the surveyor general, wvho was himself. acting
under instructions from Mr.. Lamar, then Secretary of the Interior, which instructions in his opinion authorized him' to
direct the defendant Paine to ascertain the shore line of Lake
Maurepas as it existed in 1769, the date of the grant; and his

NEW ORLEANS v. PAINE.
Opinion, of the Court.

instructions to defendant, which were most careful and explicit
as to the method of locating this line, were found to besatisfactory by the Commissioner of the General Land Office; who
also approved' his contract with the defendant for the survey
upon the basis of these instructions. Defendant proceeded to
act upon these instructions, and to locate the line as near as hi
could ascertain the southern shore of thelake to have been in
1769. His report of this survey seems to have been forwarded
to the Commissioner of the General Land Office, but never to
have been formally approved.
The only record evidence upon this subject consists of three
letters." One from the Commissioner of the Land Office to the
surveyor general, of January 23, 1891, in which he acknowledges the receipt of the duplicate plat and transcript of fieldnotes of defendant's survey, and also. of certain protests,
affidavits and letters, and in closing his correspondence says:
"In view of the foregoing and of the condition expressed in
the contract allowing partial payments as the survey progresses, I hereby accept the survey as far as herein considered,
and, as the several points.of objection to the acceptance of some
of the lines established in this survey, as set forth in the protests above mentioned, will necessarily demand a further consideration by this office, you are directed to withhold the filing
of the triplicate plats in the local land office until you are
further advised in regard thereto." The second letter is from
the acting Secretary of the. Interior to 'the Commissioner of
the General Land Office, under date of May 14,1891, in which,
speaking of the decision of Mr. Lamar, the former Secretary
of the Interior, he says: "I find nothing in this decision to
indicate that it was the intention of the Secretary to authorize
an investigation as to whether the shore of the lake had been
changed since 1769; but, on the contrary, it seems to be
clearly indicated that the southern shore of the lake as it now
exists should be fixed absolutely as the starting point to deter
mine the back line of said: grant. You will instruct the
surveyor general accordingly2? This letter doe;. not inalicate,
as contended, a reversal of 'the actioi :of -Mr.Lamar, his predecessor in office, but merely'thalt he put a different interpreta.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

tion upon his decision from that of the surveyor general, under
whose instructions the defendant had acted. The last letter
was written by the acting Commissioner of the Land Office to
the surveyor general, May 21, 1891,and states that "this line
was run by Deputy Surveyor Ruffin B. Paine, under his contract .No. 1, dazed November 11, 1889, under instructions of
your predecessor, and was accepted by this q.flce to the extent of
ydymnent for the work, it having been done in accordance with
his instructions; but the plats were withheldfrom ftling awaiting the deoision of the department as to the correctness of the
.instructions, in view of the original decision of the department
in this case, dated January 6,1888. It is unnecessary to enter
into the details of the instructions issued by your predecessor,
or of the work performed by his deputy in pursuance thereof,
as they form a part of the files of your office and you are no
doubt familiar with them. It is sufficient to sfate that the enclosed decision directs that the southern shore of the lake as it
now exists shall be fixed absolutely as the starting point to
determine the back line of the aforesaid claims. This necessitates the rejection of the survey executed by Paine as to the
etablishing of this line, and you will enter into a new contract
with some corpetent deputy for its establishment as now
directed by the department."
It is quite evident from this correspondence that the first
survey was never formally approved by-the Secretary of the
Interior or QtieCommissioner of the Land Office, and that no
title ever vette d in the plaintiff to the lands included in this
survey, though defendant, having obeyed his instructions, was,
of course entitled to his pay. If the department was not satisfied with this survey, there was no rule of law standing in the
way of its ordering another. Until the matter is closed .by
final action, the proceedings of an officer of a department are
as much opet to review or reversal by himself, or his successor,
as are the interlocutory decrees of a court open to review upon
the final hearing. fourniguetv. Perkins, 16 How. 82. Thus
in Gaines v. Thompson, 7 Wall. 347, 352, it was held that the.
action of the Secretary-of the Interior directing the Commissioner of the Land Office to cancel an entry of land was within

NEW ORLEANS v. PAIM
Opinion of the Court.

the exclusive control of the dpartment, and that the court
had no jurisdiction or.auithority to interfere with the exercise
of this power by injunction. -In delivering the opinion of the
court, Mr' Justice IMiller stated the general doctrine to be
"-that an officer to whom public duties are confided by law, is
not subject to the control of the courts in the exercise of the
judgment and discretion which the law reposes in him* as a
part of his official functions. Certain powers and duties are
confided to those officers, and to them alone, and however the
courts may, in ascertaining the righits of parties in suits properly before them, pass upon the legality of their acts, after the
matter has once passed beyond their control, there exists no
power in the cofirts, by any of its processes, to act upon the
officer so as to interfere with the exercise of that judgment
while the matter is properly before him for action."
The case Under consideration is not unlike that of Stotesbury
v. United States, 146 U. S. 196, decided at the present term, in
which a decision by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue
authorizing the refunding of certain taxes, which was reported
to the Secretary of. the Treasury for his consideration and
advisement, was held by the court not to have been a final
decision, but to have been subject to a revision by the Secretary. Obviously the decision of the surveyor general approving the act of his deputy was not a finalty, since the papers
were forwarded byhim to the Commissioner of the Land
Office, and by him to the Secretary of the Interior for final
approval. So long as there was a superior officer whose approval was contemplated by law or the regulations of the
department, no approval by a subordinate officer would operate
as a finalty. In this particular the case is readily distinguishable from. that of United States v. Stone, 2 Wall. 525, in which
the Secretary of the Interior attempted to annul the action of
his predecessor in issuing certain land patents, by revoking
them. It is not at all improbable that the proper location of
the b ck line of this grant may hereafter become the subject
of judicial inquiry, but at present, while the matter is still
pending before the Land Department and the officers are
bringing to bear upon it their own judgment and discretion.

