OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

considered sufficient to overcome the distinctively politic and
coercive law of Illinois.
4
In our judgment, the Idaho statute was inapplicable and the
assignment was in c6ntravention of no settled policy of that
Territory. It was valid at common law, and valid in Utah,
and the assignee having taken possession before the attachnient issued, the District Court was right in the.conclusions of
'law at which it arrived.
The judgment is reversed and the cause remanded to the
Supreme Court of the State of Idaho for further proceedings
not inconsistent with this opinion.
Judgment rever'sed.

In

Pe

HAWKINS, Petitioner.
ORIGINAL.

No number. Submitted January23, 1893.-Decided January 30, 1893.

This court cannot, by mandamus, review the judicial action of a Circuit
Court of Appeals in refusing to receive further proofs offered by an
appellant, in an admiralty cause pending in that court on appeal.

Tim petitioner libelled the yacht Lurline and claimant in the
District Colirt of the United States, for the Eastern District of
New York, to enforce a state law lien under a maritime contract for repairs. Judgment having been rendered in favor of
the petitioner, the claimant appealed to tll Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Second Circuit. Upon theTiling of the briefs
of counsel, it appeared that the claimant proposed to contend
that the value of the work and materials furnished by the libellant under the contract had n'ot been proved. Thereupon
libellant's proctor gave notice to take testimony on these
points and did take sfch testimony. The counsel for claimant
moved to suppress these depositions, which motion was granted
and the f9llowing opinion filed:
Per Curiam. Motion granted, for the reason that the testimony taken on deposition in this court was available to libel-

IN RE IHAW =flS, Petitioner.
Statement of the Case.

lant on the trial in the District Court, witness and books being
both present there; that it does not appear he was prevented from presenting such testimony except by his own.
choice; that he was as well informed as to its materiality
under the issues when he closed his case as he is now, and was
expressly notified by respondent's motion to dismiss, that the
latter contended libellant's proof as to the amount of labor
performed was insufficient.
Thereupon application was made here for leave to file a
petition for a writ of mandamus to the Circuit Court of Appeals, directing' the judges to receive the depositions, and to
give them the consideration which in law they were entitled
to receive, according to the practice of courts of admiralty.

r. George A. Black, for the petitioner, contended that the
act of the.Circuit Court of Appeals and of the Judges thereof
in suppressing the depositions was unlawful in that, by the
decisions of this court in The -Lucille,19 Wall. 73, The Charles
]Morgan, 115 U. S. 70, and The H~esper, 122 U. S. 256, an
admiralty appeal is a new, trial, and by Section 862 of the
Revised Statutes of the United States, and Admiralty Rules
49 and 50 of this court, the right on such new trial to give
new proofs is secured to petitioner; and that, said statute,
rules and decisions remain unrepealed and in full force, and
are binding upon said Circuit Judges 'and said Circuit Court
of Appeals and had lteen disregarded by-them.
With the petition the following paper was also presented,
entitled "Brief of Avzici Curio on petition for mandamus."
"The undersigned, advocates in admiralty, practising as
such in the Second Circuit, appear as Amici Curio in the
above proceeding, and respectfully show to this court:
"That from the foundation of the judicial system
of the
-United States until within a few years back, under the practice
on appeal in admiralty cases from the District to the Circuit
Courts, the appellant had the right to take new testimony to
be used on his appeal, when he had in his petition of appeal
stated that he desired to have his appeal heard on new

OCTODER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

evidence. That such right to take new testimony on appeal
was according to the ancient practice of the admiralty, and
was recognized by the Supreme Court, which made rules
regulating the mode, in which such new testimony should be
taken, which rules have never been repealed by the Supreme
Court. That the statute creating the new Circuit Court of
Appeals me.rely provided for a review of decrees of the District Court by appeal, which, of course, in admiralty cases,
must be an admiralty appeal, which has always been held to
be a new trial.
"That the Circuit Court of Appeals in the Second Circuit
soon after its organization

.

.

.

adopted the following

rules:
"' RULE 1. The appeal-shall be heard on the pleading, and

evidence in the District Court unless the appellate- court on
motion otherwise order.'
" 'RULE 7. Upon sufficient cause shown, this court, or any

judge thereof, may allow either appellant or appellee to make
new allegations or pray different relief, or intdrpose a new
defence or take new proofs. Applibation for such leave Tnust:
be made within fifteen days after the filing of the apostles,
and upon at least four days' notice to the adverse party.'
",
' RULE 8. if leave be given to take new testimony, the same
may be taken and filed within thirty days after the entry of
the order granting such leave, and the adverse party may take
and file counter testimony within twenty days after such
filipg.'
"That the effect of these rules is that the right to take new
testimony on appeal, which the parties to an admiralty suit
have alway had, has been taken away, and for it has been
substituted a right to apply to a judg6 of the Circuit Court
of Appeals for jermissiancto take new testimony, which he
may grant or refuse, at his discretion.
"That, in the case of Hawkin* v. The Yacht LurZine, the
Circuit Court of Appeals has ordered certain depositions which
had been taken to be used on the trial of the appeal tp be
suppressed.
"That the undersigned have read the brief of the- advocate

IN RE HLWKIS, Petitioner.
Statement of the Case.

for the appellee in answer to the motion made to suppress
such depositions, and that said brief seems to them to show
that the right of the benefit of new testimony on the trial
of an appeal in admiralty has been given by statute and the
rules of the Supreme Court.
"That, if such statutory right existed, it does not seem to hewithin the proper scope of the power of the Circuit Court
of Appeals to take it away by a rule governing its own
practice.
"We therefore request that the Sdpreme Cburt will examine
into the question, and will determine whether in admiralty
appeals the parties have the right to offer upon the trial of
the appeal such evidence (whether new evidence or evidence
taken in the District Court) as they shall see fit, or whether
the taking of new evidence is a mere privilege, to be granted,
or not by the Judge of the Circuit Court of Appeals in his
discretion:
. "And that the Supreme Court, if it shall determine that
the parties have such a right, may take such measurej, by
a mandamus or otherwise, as shall secure such right.
"Robert D. Benedict, of .Benedict & Benedict.
"Wilhelmus Mynderse, of the firm of Butler, Stillman & Hubbard, 54 Wall St,, New York.
"Geo. Bethune Adafls, of Wilcox, Adams & Green, 69 Wall
St., New York.
"Win. AV. Goodrich, of Goodrich, Deady & Goodrich.
"Joseph F. 'Mosher, of Carpenter & Mosher, 62 Wall St.,
N.Y.
"Everett P. Wheeler, of Wheeler, Cortis & Godkin.
"Harrington Putnam, of the firm of Wing, Shoudy & Putnam.
"Sidney Chubb.
"Henry Galbraith Ward, of Robinson, Biddle & Ward.
"'William D. Guthrie, of Seward, Guthrie & Moraw'etz.
"David Willcox, of Bristow, Peet & Opdyke.
"Frank D. Sturges, of the firm of Owen, Gray & Sturges.
"Win. G. Choate, of the firm. of Shipman, Larocque & Choate.
"Win. D. Shipman, of Shipman, Larocque &Choate.

