OCTOBER TERM, 892,
Statement of the Case.

in fact, and their acts were subsequently ratified by Rankin
and by Mrs. Boyle.
We are of opinion that the grant was not void because of
the death of Boyle before the patent was issued, and that it
should be construed in the alternative as a grant to James
Boyle, or his heirs, or assigns, which would include a grantee
,or grantees in being, capable of taking the patent and to
vhose benefit the grant would enure; that the patent should
bd construed as a grant to Thomas L. Rankin as assignee, and
held to have been obtained by the authority of Mrs. Boyle as
administritrix, as well as of Rankin; and that the amendment
did not render the patent absolutely void, nor did the fact
that-no oath was filed after Boyle's death.
These concluions answer the que8tionsprojounded,andwill
be certified accordingly.

SUTLIFF v. LAKE COUNTY COMMISSIONERS.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE UNITED STATES CIRCUIT COURT OF APPALS
FOR THE EIGHTH CIRCUIT.
No. 1085. Submitted December 12,1892.-Decided January 9,1893.
Where the constitution and a statute of a State forbid any county to issue
bonds to such an amount as will make its aggregate indebtednesszexceed
a certain proportion of the assessed valuatioh of taxable property in the
county; and the statute requires the county commissioners to publish,
and to enter on the public records of the county, semi-annual statements
showing the whole amount of the county debt; a purchaser, for value
and before maturity, of a bond issued in excess of the constitutional and
statutory limit, is charged with the duty of examining the record of
indebtedness; and the county is not estopped, by a recital in the bond
that all the provisions of the statute have been complied with, to prove,
by the record of the assessment and the indebtedness, that the bonds
were issued in violation of the constitution.

THIS was an action brought in the Circuit Court of the
United States for the District of Colorado by a citizen of

:

SUTLIFF

. LAKE COUNTY COMMISSIONERS.

231

Statement of the Case.

Connecticut agains.t the county of Lake, a municipal corporation of Colorado, upon coupons for interest of six bonds for
$500 each, part of a series of ten bonds, issued by the county
on July 1, 1881, payable to bearer in twenty years, and redeemable at the pleasure of the county after ten years, and containing this recital:
"This bond is one of a series of five thousand dollars, which
the board of county commissioners of said county have issued
for the purpose of constructing roads and bridges, by virtue of
-and in compliance with a vote of a majority of the qualified
voters of said county, at an election duly held on the 7+,h day
of October, A.D. 1879, and under and by virtue of and in compliance with an act of the general assembly of the State of
Colorado, entitled I An act concerning counties, county officers
and county government, and repealing laws on these subjects,',
approved March 24, A.D. 187, and it is hereby certified that
all the provisions of said act have been fully complied with by
the proper officers in the issuing of this bond."
One defence was that the bonds were illegal and void,
because they increased the indebtedness of the county to an
amount in excess of the limit prescribed by art. 11, sect. 6, o;
the constitution of Colorado, which is copied in the margin.'
On March 24, 1877, the legislature of Colorado passed. an
act, entitled "An act concerning counties, county 'fficers and
county government,, and repealing laws on these subjects,"
1 No county shall-contract any debt by loan in any form, except for the
purpose of erecting necessary public buildings, making or repairing public
roads and bridges; and such indebtedness contracted in any one year shall
not exceed the rates upon the taxable property in such county following, to
wit: Counties in which the assessed valuation of taxable property shall
exceed five millions of dollars, one dollar and fifty cents on each thousand
dollars thereof; counties in which such valuation shall -be less than five
millions of dollars, three dollars on each thousand dollars thereof. And the
aggregate amount of indebtedness of any county for all purposes, exclusive
of debts contracted before the adoption of this constitution, shall not at
any time exceed twice the amount above herein limited, unless when, in
manner provided by law, the question of incurring such debt shall, at a
general election, be submitted to such of the qualified electors of such
county as in the year last preceding such election shall have paid a tax
upon property assessed to them in such county, and a majority, of those

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

(General Laws of 1877, p. 218,) the material provisions of
which are also copied in the margin.'
voting thereon shall vote in favor of incurring the debt; 'blt the bonds, if
any be issued therefor, shall not run less than ten years, and the aggregate
amount of debtso contracted shall not at any time exceed twice the rate
.upon the valuation last herein mentioned: Provided, that this section shall
not apply to counties haying a valuation of less than one million of dollars.
1 Snc. 21. When the county commissioners of any county shall deem it
necessary to create an indebtedness for the purpose of erecting necessary
public buildings, making or repairing public roads or bridges, they may, by
an order entered of record, specifying the amount required and the objectfor which suih debt is created, submit the question to a vote of the people
at a general election; and they shall cause to be posted a notice of such
order in some conspicuous place .in each voting precinct in the county, for
at least thirty days preceding the election; and all persons voting on that
question shall vote by separate ballot, whereon is placed the words "for
county indebtedness," or "against county indebtedness; "-such ballots to be
deposited in a box provided by the county commissioners for that purpose,
and no person shill vote on the question of indebtedness unless he shall
have the necessary qualifications of an.elector as provided by law, and shall
have paid a tax upon property asiessed to him in such county for the year
immediately preceding; and if, upon canvassing the vote, (which shall be
canvassed in the same manner as the vote for county officers,) it shall appear
tl!t a majority of all the votes cast are for county indebtedness, then the
county -commissioners shall be authorized, to contract the debt in the name
of the county: Provided, tiat the aggregate amount of indebtedness of any
county, exclusive of debts contracted 'prior to July 1, 1876, in which the
assessed valuation of property shall exceed one million of dollars, for 'all
purposes, shall not be in excess of the following ratio, to wit: Counties
in which the assessed valuation of property shall exceed five millions of
dollars, six dollars on each thousand dollars thereof; counties in.which
the assessed valuation of p'roperty'shall be less than five millions and
exceed one million of dollars, twelve dollai's on each thousand' dollars
'thereof.
SEc. 30. It shall be the duty of the board of county- commissioners of
each county to'make out semi-annual statements at the regular sessions in
January and July, at *hch times-they shall have such statements published
14 some weekly newspaper published in the county, if there be such published; and if there be no newspaper published in the county, such commissioners shall cause such statement to .be posted In three conspicuous places
in said county, one of which shall be th'e court-house door; and such statement shall show the amount of debt owing by their county, in what the debt
consists, what payments If any, have been made upon the same, the rate of
interest that such debts are draVpg;'also-a detailed account of the receipts
and expenditures of the county for the preceding months, in which shall

SUTLIFF v. LAKE COUNTY COM=ISSION-ERS.

233,

Statement of the Case.

The Circuit Court gave judgment for the defendant; and
the plaintiff took the case by writ of error to the Circuit Court
of Appeals for the Eighth Circuit, before which the following
facts were made to appear: At and before the issue and sale
of said bonds, the county was in fact indebted to an amount
greater than that permitted by the limitation contained in the
constitution and statute of Colorado, above cited; and there.fore, as a matter of fact, the issue of said series of bonds, and
the issue of each one thereof created an indebtedness on the
-part of the county in excess of the constitutional and statutory
limitation applicable to said county at the date of the issue of
said bonds. The plaintiff bought six of said series of bonds,
paying full value therefor, relying upon the recitals in the
bonds contained, and without making any examination into
the facts that might appear upon the records of the county,
and without any actual knowledge of the facts other than such
knowledge with which he might be held, chargeable from the
statements in the bonds and the constitution and statutes of
Colorado.
Upon the case as above stated, the Circuit Court of Appeals
'certified to this court thefollowing questions and propositidns
of law:
"1. In view of the provisions of the act cf the legislature of
Colorado, approved March 24, 1871, providing for the making
of a public record of the indebtednesg and fnancial condition
of the several counties in said State, was'tbe said John Sutliff,
plaintiff herein, when about to purchase the bonds sued on
and issued under the Provisions of said act of March 24, 1877,
charged with the duty'of examining the rec;ord of indebted.
ness provided for in said act, in order to ascertain whether the
boiids he proposed to purchase were la-Wfully issued or whether
be shown from what officer and on what account any money has been
received, and the amounts, and to what individuals and on what account
any-money has been paid, and the amounts, and shall strika the balance, showing the amount deficit, if any, and the balance in the tr.iasury, if any; and
the statement thus made, in addition to being published .s before specified,
shall also be entered of record by the clerk of the board of county commissioners in a book to be by him kept for that purpose only, which book shall
be open to the inspection of the public itt all times.'

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

the issuance thereof did not increase the indebtedness of the
county. beyond the constitutional limit ?
' 2.- Do the recitals found in said bonds estop the county of
Lake, as against a.purchaser thereof for value before maturity,
from proving as a defence thereto that when said series of
bonds -were 'issued the indebtedness of the county already
equalled or' exceeded the amount of indebtedness which the'
county could legally incur under the provisions of the constitutional limitation already cited?"
.Xr. Jhn Afo C.ur
e for plaintiff in error.
Ar. H. B. Johnson for defendants in error.

Me, JusTi. GRY, after stating the case as above, delivered
the opinion of the court.
The constitution, as well as -the statute, of Colorado absolutely forbade a county to issue bonds, under any circumstances, to such an amount as would make -the aggregate
amount of the indebtedness of the county more than sixdollars on each thousand if the assessed valuation of the taxable
property in the county ,-as more than five millions of dollars,
or twelve dollars if such valuation wus less than five and more'
than one million ; .and limited the right to issue bonds, without a previous vote of the qualified electors of the county, to
half of such rates.
The statute, moreover, required the county commissioners,
in submitting the question to a vote of the electors, to enter of
record an order specifying the amount required and the object
of the debt; and: also made it their duty. to publish, and to
cause to be entered on thdif records, open to the inspection of
the public at all times, semi-annual statements, exhibiting in
detail the debts,.expenditures :and re-eipts' of the county for
the pieceding six months, and striking the balance so as to
show the amount 'of any deficit and the balance in 'the
treasury.
Tte is stated in the cektjiicate upcin which this case mes

SUTLIFF v. LAKE COUNTY ,COMMISSIONERS.

235

Opinion o4 the Court.

before us that at the time of the issue of the bonds in question
the defendant county was in fact indebted beyond the consti,
tutional and statutory limit, and the issue of each bond. therefore created a debt in excess of that limit; and that the
plaintiff bought the bonds, upon. the faith of the recitals
therein, and without making any examination into the facts
appearing on the records of the county,
Upon these facts, in the light of the previous decisions of
this court, it is clear that the plaintiff, although a Purchaser
for value and before maturity of the bonds, was charged with
the duty of examining the record of indebtedness provided for
in the statute of Colorado, in order to ascertain whether the
bonds increased the indebtedness of the county.beyond the
constitutional limit; and that the recitals in ,the bonds did not
estop the county to prove by the records of the assessment and
the indebtedness that the bonds were issued in violation of the
constitution.
In those cases in which this court has held a municipal corporation to be estopped by recitals in its bonds to assert that
they were issued in excess of the limit imposed by the consti.
tution or statutes of the State, the statutes, as consr.d' byr
the court, left it to 'the officers issuing the bonds to dete'nine
whether the facts existed which constituted the statutory or
constitutional condition precedent, and did not require those
facts to be made a matter of public record. -Marey v. Oswego,
92 U. S. 637; -Humboldtv. long, Q2 U. S. 642; Dixon County
v. .Field,ill U.-S. 83; Lae County v. Graham, 130 U. S.
674, 682; Chafee County v. Potter,142 U. S. 355, 363.
But if the statute expressly requires those facts to be made
a matter of public record, open to the inspection of every one,
there can be no implication that it was intended to leave that
matter to be determined and concluded, contrary to the facts
so recorded, by the officers charged with the duty of. issuing
the bonds.
Accordingly, in Dixon County v.-Field, above cited, which
arose under an article of the constitution of. Nebraska,'limiting the power of a county to issue bonds to ten-per ceit of the.
assessed valuation of the county, it was adjudged that a.. county

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

issuing bonds, each reciting that it was one of a series of
$87,000 issued under and by virtue of this article of the constitution and the statutes of Nebraska upon the subject, was
not estopped to show by the assessed valuation on the books
of public record of the county that the bonds were in excess
of the*constitutional limit; and Mr. Justice Matthews, delivering the unanimous judgment of the court, fully stated the
grounds of the decision, which sufficiently appear by the following extracts:
"If the fact necessary to the existence of the authority was
by law to be ascertained, not officially by the officers charged
with the execution of the power, but by reference to some
express and definite record of a public character, then the true
meaning of the law would be that the authority to act at all
depended upon the actual objective existence of the requisite
fact, as shown by the record, and not upon its ascertainment
and determination by any one; and the -consequence would
necessarily follow, that all persons claiming under the exercise
of such a pbwer might-be put to the proof of the fact, .made.a
condition of its lawfulness, notwithstanding any recitals in the
instrument."
111.U.S.93.
."In the present case there was no power at all conferred to
issue bonds in excess of an amount equal to ten per cent upon
'the assessed valuation of the taxable property in -the county.
In determining the limit of power, there "vere necessarily two
factors: the'mount of the bonds to be issued, and the amount
of the assessed valueof the property for purposes of taxation.
The amount of the bonds issued'was known. It is. stated
in the recital itself, It- was $87,000. 'The holder of each
bond was apprised of that fact. The amount- of the assessed
value of the taxable property in the. county is no.t stated; but,
ex vi termini, it was ascertainable in one way only, and that
was by reference to the assessment itself, a public record
equally accessible to all -intending purchasers of bonds, as
well as to the county officers. This be.ng known,.the ratio
between the two amounts was fixd by'an arithmetical calculation. No recital involving the amount of the assessed- taxable valu- ,on of the property to be taxed for the payment of

SUTLIFF v. LAKE COUNTY COMMISSIONERS.

237

Opinion -of the Court.

the bonds can take the place of the ssessment itself, for it is
the amount, as fixed by reference to that record, that is made
by the constitution the standard for measuring the limit of the
municipal power. Nothing in the way of inquiry, ascertainT
ment or, determination as to that fact is submitted to the
county officers. They are bound, it is true, to learn from the
assessment what the limit upon their authority is, as a necessary preliminary in the exercise of their functions and the
performance of their duty; but the information is for themselves alone. All the world besides must have it from the
same source, and for themselves. The fact, as it is recorded
in the assessment itself, is extrinsic, and proves itself by
inspection, and concludes all determinations that contradict
it." 111 U. S. 95.
That decision and the grounds upon which it rests were
approved and affirmed in Lake County v. Graharm and Cha'ee
County v. Potter, above cited, .each of which arose under the
article of the constitution of Colorado now. in question, but
.under a different statute, which did not require the amount of
indebtedness of the county to be stated on its records. In
Lake County v. Graham, each bond showed on its face the
whole amount of bonds issued, and the recorded valuation of
projerty showed that amount to be in excess of the constitutional limit; and for this'reason, as well as because the b6nds
contained no recital upon that point, the county. was held not
to be estopped to plead that limit. 130 U. S. 682, 683. 'In
Ohafee County v. Potter,on the other hand, the bonds contained an express recital that the total amount of the issue did.
not exceed the constitutional limit, and did not show on their
face the amount of. the issue, and the county records showed
only the valuation of -property, so that, as observed by Mr.
Justice Lamar in delivering judgment: "The purchaser
might even know, indeed it may be admitted that he would
be required to know, the assessed valuation of the taxable
property of the county, and -yet he could not ascertain by
reference to one of the bonds and the assessment rolliwhether
the county had exceeded it$ power, under the constitution, in
the premises." 142 U. S. 363.

