COOKE v. AVERY.
Syllabus.

facts of this case are substantially the same as the one just decided,
the decision must be the same.
The decree of the court below will, therefore, be reversed, and
the case remanded, with directions to dismiss the bill.
Mr. Samuel Lord, (with whom were, on the brief, fr. D. A. Townsend, Attorney General of the State of South Carolina, and Mr. Ira
B. Jones,) for appellants.
Mi. Henry A. M Smith, (with whom was Mr. J. T. Barron on
the brief,) for appellee.

COOKE -v. AVERY.
ERROR TO THE CIROUI

COURT OF THE U'ITED STATES FOR THE

NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No. 72. Submitted December 5,1892. -Decided

January 23, 1893.

In view of the requirements of Rev. Stat. ยง 953, respecting the authentication of bills of exceptions, it will be assumed, where a bill is certified
by a District Judge holding Circuit Court, that the Circuit Justice and Circuit Judge were not present at the trial, unless the record clearly and
affirmatively shows the contrary.
When it appears that some title, right, privilege or immunity, on which
the recovery depends, will be defeated by one construction of the Constitution or a law of the United States, or sustained by the opposite
construction, the case is 'one arising under the Constitution or laws of
the United States.
When a party, on the first trial of a cause in a Circuit Court, sets up such a
right as the ground of Federal jurisdiction, and the jurisdiction is sustained, he cannot be permitted, on the second trial, to oust the jurisdiction by contending that no such right is in controversy.
Where a plaintiff's title rests upon the validity of a lien claimed to have been
acquired under a judgment of a Circuit Court of the United States, the
disposition of the issue depends upon the laws of the United States
and the rules of its courts, and a Federal court has jurisdiction.
An index to an abstract of judgments in Texas, made under its laws for
acquiring judgment liens, is sufficient, which gives the defendants' name
or names correctly, and the.names of the plaintiffs by a partnership
title.
In Texas, in trespass to try title, the defendant cannot question the validity

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.
of his grantor's title, at the time of the conveyance to him when the
plaintiff claims under the same grantor, unless he claims under a paramount title.
If the defendant in such an action pleads his title specially, he waives the
general issue, and is confined to the defence specially pleaded.
The defendant in such an action, not having been in possession of the land
in dispute for twelve months next before ffe commencement of the
action under written evidence of title, offered to show that immediately
after concluding his bargain for the property he entered into possession,
and 'commenced making improvements, and erected improvements of
great value on the property before he knew of the plaintiff's lien. This
-was d6ne in order to enable him to get the benefit of'the provisions in
the Texas statutes relating to improvements. Beld, that the offer was
too vague.
A married woman was codefendant in an action of trespass to try title in
Texas. Her interest was a community interest in the property by virtue
of a conveyance to her husband. Held, that a personal judgment in
damages for use and occupation, and for costs, could not be rendered
against her.

Tris was an action of trespass to try title to a tract of land
in Hunt County, Texas, brought by W. W. Avery, December
24, 1886, against J. H. Cooke; his wife, M. E. Cooke; and
the Scottish-American Mortgage Company; in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Northern District of
Texas, the plaintiff alleging that he was a citizen of the State
of North Carolina; that the defendants Cooke were citizens
of the State of Texas; and that the MYortgage Company was
an alien corporation and a subject of Great Britain.
The petition averred that, on the 25th of November, 1886,
plaintiff was lawfully seized and entitled to the possession of
the land ih question, located in Hunt County, Texas, in the
Northern District of said State, and entitled to hold the same
in fee simple, and that defendants. Cooke unlawfully dispossessed him thereof, and still unlawfully withhold the same.
The, Morpgage Company demurred, and also pleaded that
on January 1, 1886, the defendants Cooke, who were at that
time in possession of the land, and seized of good title in fee
simple, and had the right to c6nvey the same, executed a deed
of trust thereon to one Simpson, as trustee, to secure a loan
of money made by the company to the Cookes. The other
defendants answered to the merits, and subsequently, on Feb-

COOKE'v. AVERY.
Statement of the Case.

ruary -13, 1888, defendant J. H. Cooke withdrew his answer,
and filed a plea to the jurisdiction of the court, to the effect
that the land had been conveyed to plaintiff by citizens of
Texas on November '25, 1886, without consideration and for
the purpose of conferring jurisdiction; and on the same day,
not waiving his plea to the jurisdiction, he answered, (1) not
guilty; (2) that he purchased the land in controversy from
J. H. Payne, under whom the plaintiff claimed, "in actual
ignorance of any lien upon said land, and in the belief that
said tract of land was the homestead of said J.H. Payne, and
that no creditor of said Payne could acquire a judgment lien
thereon. That this defendant for more than twelve months
before the commencement of this suit had actual adverse
possession of said land in controversy, and that during said
period defendant made upon said land permanent and valuable improvements in good faith, as follows: [The alleged
improvements were enumerated, and the total value stated to
be $11,900.] That said tract of land .without said improvements is of the value of $2000, and by said improvements the
same is enhanced in value by the cost or value aforesaid of
said improvements. Defendant prays for the value of said
improvements if plaintiff recovers said land," etc.
On February 11, 1889, plaintiff filed his amended original
petition, which further alleged that plaintiff and the defendants derived title from one J. H. Payne as a common source;
that the defendants deraigned title through a certain deed
executed by Payne and his wife, January 2, 1886; while the
plaintiff claimed title under an execution sale upon a judgment
recovered against Payne, January 17, 1882, in case No. 198, in
the Circuit Court of the United States for the -orthern District of Texas, at -Dallas, in favor of John Deere, Charles H.
Deere, Stephen H; 'Velie, Alvah, M[ansur and L. H. Tibbetts,
partners under the firm name of Deere, Mansur & Company,
for the sum of $717.93 and costs of suit, all the proceedings
upon and in reference to which were fully set forth. Plaintiff
further alleged that by reason of certain laws of the United
'States and rules of the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Northern District of-Texas, which were specificallyreferred

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

to, the judgment was a lien upon the property from the date
of its rendition, or became such on the date the abstract
thereof was recorded and indexed in Hunt County, February 9,
1882, (as set out,) and continued to be a lien up to the date of
the sale by the marshal, by reason whereof plaintiff had a
superior title to the property; but that defendants denied that
the judgment was ever a valid lien on the prbpe'ty under said
laws and rules; and this constituted the controlling question
in the case, upon the correct decision of which plaintiff's title
depended. Plaintiff therefore averred that this suit arose
under the laws of the United States and the rules of the Circuit Court, and that the Circuit Court at the institution of the
suit had and still had jurisdiction thereof without regard to
the citizenship of the parties thereto.
On June 8, 1889, the defendants Cooke demurred to that
part of the amended original petition treating of jurisdiction,
and.further pleaded "that if they are not the owners of the
land in controversy the title thereto is outstanding in one
Y. D. Harrington, to whom it was conveyed by said
J. H. Payne before the lien under which plaintiff claims
attached, and defendants deny all the averments of said
petition."
On the same day plaintiff demurred and excepted generally
and specially to defendants' plea to the jurisdiction, and
denied its allegations, and also replied to defendant J. H.
Cooke's original answer by general and special demurrers or
exceptins, and a general denial.
The cause came on for trial June 8, 1889, and the court
having heard and disposed of the several demurrers and
exceptions, the trial was proceeded with.
The- plaintiff introduced in evidence a judgment of the
Circuit' Court rendered January 17, 1882, in favor of
John Deere, Charles H. Deere, Stephen H. Velie, Alvah Mansur and L. H. Tibbetts, against J. H. Payne, in cause No. 198,
for the sum of $717.93, of which the sum of $682.13 was
directed to draw interest at the rate of ten per cent per
annum, and the sum of $35.80 at the rate of eight per cent
per annum, and for costs; and also a general index of all

COOKE v. AVERY.
Statement of the Case.

judgments rendered in the court, which showed under the
proper letter that the judgment in favor of Deere, Mansur
& Co. against J. H. Payne was entered in minute book No. 1,
page 534; also, an execution issued on the judgment, :March
3, 1882, returned "no property found;" and an execution
issued August 11, 1886, under which the land in controversy
was levied on by the marshal, August 12, and sold by him,
Septeniber 7, 1886, to Charles C. Cobb and John M. Avery;
also the -marshaPs deed to said Cobb and Avery, made pursuant to the levy and sale, and dated September 7, 1886.
Plaintiff also introduced the papers in case No. 198, including
the original petition, which petition was endorsed: "In Circuit Court of United States, No. 198, Deere, Mansur & Company v. T. H. Payne," which endorsement was also on all the
other papers in the .cause; and the citation, which was duly
served on Payne, notifying him to answer the suit in case
"No. 198, of Deere, iMansur & Company, a firm composed*of
John. Deere, Charles H. Deere, Stephen H. Velie, Alvah
Mansur and L. H. Tibbetts, against J. H. Payne, defendant."
The petition showed that the suit was brought on a promissory note, which was attached as an exhibit, and was dated
April 16, 1880, executed by J. H. Payne, and payable to the
order of Deere, TMansur & Co. Plaintiff further offered in
evidence a -certified copy of an abstract of the judgment in
case No. 198, and a certified copy of the index of the abstract
from the records of Hunt County. The certificate of the
clerk of the county court of that county stated that said certified copies were true copies of the abstract recorded in the
judgment record book No. 1, page 47, of Hunt County, and
of the index, both direct and reverse, referring to said page
47, of said judgment record book, as appeared from the index
in his office. The certified copy of the abstract was as
follows :

"Circuit Court of the United States, for the Northern District of Texas, at Dallas.
"I, A. J. Houston, clerk of the Circuit Court of the United
States for the Northern District of Texas, at Dallas, do hereby

OCTOBER TER-M, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

certify that in said court, on Tuesday, January 17th, 1882, the
plaintiffs recovered a judgment against the defendant for the
sum of $717.93, of which the sum of $682.13 shall draw interest from said date at ten per cent per annum and the balance,
t35.80, shall draw interest at eight per cent per annuu, together with the costs by plaintiffs incurred; all of which said
judgment and costs is yet due and unpaid by the defendant in
case No. 198, and styled Deere, Mansur & Company, plaintiffs
.,V. J. H. Payne, defendant; all of which appears from the
records of said court now in my office.
"In testimony whereof I hereunto set my hand and affix
the seal of said court, at Dallas, Texas, this 6th day of February, A.D. 1882, and of the Independence of the United States
the 106th year.
[Seal of U. S. Circuit Court at Dallas, Tex,]

"A. J. HOUSTON,

"Clerk of said Court.
"Filed for record Feb'y 9th, 1882, at 10 o'clock A.M. Recorded same day and hour.
A. CAmERoN,
"Co. Clerk, H.unt Co., Texas."
The certified copy of the direct and reverse index was as
follows:
"Dired Index. to Judgment Record, -unt
"Plaintiffs. name- Deere, Mansur & Co.
-Defendant's name: J. H. Payne.
Page of judgment record: 47.

County, Texas.

"Reverse Index to Judgment Record, Hunt County, Texas.
"Defendant's name: J. K1. Payne.
Plaintiffs' name: Deere, Mansur & Co.
Page of judgment record: 47."
The defendants objected to the introduction of the abstract
because it did not correctly give the names of the plaintiffs in
the judgment, and did not show the amount still due thereon,

โข COOKE v. AVERY..
Statement of the Case.

as required by law; and to the index .because.it did not give
plaintiffs? names; but the objection was overruled, and the
abstract and index admitted, and defendants Cooke excepted.
Plaintiff then introduced a deed from Cobb andAvery to
plaintiff dated November 25i 1886, and also "for the purpose
of proving a common source of title and for no other purpose,"a certified copy of the deed from Payne and wife to defendant
J. H. Cooke, dated January2, 1886. It further appeared that
the Mortgage Company claimed, under a deed of trust of the
same date, executed by Payne and wife to Simpson, as trustee,
to secure a loan of money, and that Payne derived title through
a deed from Crabtree and wife to.him, dated August 16,1867,
and duly aknowledged .andrecorded in April, 1868.
Two rules of the Circuit Court for the Northern District (f
Texas were then put in, to -wit, Rule No. 1, adopted by that
court at Dallas, April 12, 1880, -as follows, viz.,: "Rule 1. The
modes of proceedings prescribed by the laws of Texas, whenthey do not, conflict with the laws of the United States or a
rule of the Supreme Court of :the United States or of this
court, are adopted."
And also Rule No. 1, adopted by the court at Dallas, July.
26, 1881, which isas followsj viz.: "Rule 1. All laws and rules
of proqedure'and practice prescribed by the legislature of the
State of Texas as they now exist or as they may be.changed
and amended from time to time, when the same do not conflict
with the law of the United States or a rule of the Supreme
Coart'of the United States or of .this court, are hereby adoptedas "the rule of practice, in this court, and all suits by attachments sequestration or otherwise brought in this court, shall
conform to the laws of the State of Texas in force at the time
such suit is brought, provided the same does not conflict with
a law of the United States or a rule of the Suprenie Court of
:
the United States or of this court."
assignee, fully adminthat
Y..
D.
Harrington,
It was agreed
istered the trust created by Payne's deed of assignment, hereinafter mentioned, prior to July 1, 1881, and made final report
of his proceedings thereunder to the proper court and was
discharged by said court prior to July 1, 1881, and ever since

OCTOBER TERME, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

that date had ceased to act as such trustee. It was also agreed
that ever since the date of the assignment Payne and Cooke,
claiming under Payne, had consecutively held peaceable and
adverse possession of the land in controversy in this suit,
cultivating, using or enjoying the same, and paying taxes
thereon, and claiming under a deed or deeds duly registered, the deed to Payne antedating the deed of assignment,
and that to Cooke, in evidence. It was further agreed that
the assignee, Y. D. H~arrington, never made any claim of title
to the land by virtue of the deed of assignment or otherwise.
Plaintiff having closed, defendants Cooke moved that the
cause be disniissed for want of jurisdiction. It was admitted
that jurisdiction could not be maintained on the ground of the
citizenship of the parties, and that, upon a former trial of the
-cause, defendants' counsel contended that, by a proper construction of section 916 of the Revised Statutes and the rules
of the Circuit Court, the laws of Texas as they existed in 1873
governed the lien of the judgment, and that the lien was
invalid thereunder because executions had not been issued on
such judgment each year since its rendition, and that this was
defendants' only contention on that trial in regard to the
invalidity of said lien, while it was, on the other hand, insisted
by plaintiff that the judgment lien was governed by the
statute of Texas of 1879, under section 916 and the rules.
The motion to dismiss was overruled, and the defendants
Cooke excepted.
Thereupon defendants Cooke offered in evidence a general
deed of assignment, under the law of Texas in that behalf, for
the benefit of his creditors, from Payne to Hlarrington, dated
October .16, 1880, which purported to convey to iHarrington,
for the benefit of such of Payne's creditors only as would
accept its provisions, all Payne's property, real and personal,
not exempt, but did not mention the 'land in controversy
specifically, either in its body or in the inventory and exhibits
attached. It provided for the dispositio- of the assigned
property and the rendition of the surplus to Payne after
paying the expenses and the creditors in full. The'admission

COOKE v. AVERY.
Statement of the Case.

of this assignment was objected to by plaintiff, the objection
sustained, and defendants excepted.
Defendants Cooke offered in evidence the original deed
made by Payne and wife to Cooke, dated January 2, 1886,
which was objected to on the ground that defendants, having
specially pleaded an outstanding title as a defence, could not
prove title in themselves, which objection was sustained by the
court, the deed excluded, and defendants excepted. Defendants then offered the original deed from Payne to Cooke,
under the plea that they had placed valuable and permanent
improvements on the land, and had had adverse possession for
more than twelve months before the commencement of the
suit, and in that connection offered to prove that in October,
1885, defendant J. H. Cooke had by parol agreed with Payne
upon terms of purchase, but no consideration was paid Payne
until the date of the deed; and that immediately upon making
the agreement, Payne delivered to Cooke exclusive possession
of the premises, and Cooke entered upon such possession,
holding adversely and in good faith, and commenced the
erection of improvements thereon, which enhanced the value
of the land in controversy. The evidence was excluded and
exception taken.
Defendants Cooke then offered to prbve that from January
1, 1882, until the sale by him, Payne was the head of a family
consisting of wife and children, and that the land was claimed
and used by him as his homestead. The court sustained
objection thereto, and defendants excepted.
Upon the .conclusion of the evidence, the court instructed
the jury to return a verdict for the plaintiff for the land and
for the value of the rents and profits thereof from November
25, 1886, to the date of the trial, to which instruction defendants excepted. Thereupon a verdict for plaintiff was returned, with damages, and' judgment entered by the court
for the recovery from the defendants of the title and possession of the premises in question, together with the fixtures and permanent improvements thereon and appurtenant
thereto, and that plaintiff have a writ of possession; and It
was further adjudged that plaintiff recover of defendants

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

Cooke the sum found by the jury as damages, together with
costs.
The Mortgage Company declining to join in the prosecution
of the writ of error, an order of severance was entered, and
this writ of error brought accordingly.
M1fr. ff. I. Crawfordfor plaintiffs in error.
Mr. John M21.
Avery for defendant in error.
MIR. CHIEF JusTICE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
The placita shows that the Circuit Court met at Dallas, in
the Northern District of Texas, on May 20, 1889, the United
States District Judge presiding, but that when the court
assembled on June 8, 1889, pursuant to adjournment, the Circuit Justice, the Circuit Judge, and the District Judge were
all present. The bill of exceptions is signed by the District
Judge, and as it does not appear that the other judges were
present at the trial, which ensued after the meeting of the
court, we assume that it was had before the District Judge
alone.
Sectioif 953 of the Revised Statutes provides for the authentication of bills of exception by the judge of the court in which
the cause was tried, or by the presiding judge thereof, if more
than one judge sat on the trial of the cause; and, therefore, if
this trial had taken place before the Circuit Justice and one of
the other judges, or before the .Circuit and District Judges,
the bill of exceptions would, of course, have been signed
by the Circuit Justice or Circuit Judge, as the'case might
be. The motion to strike out the bill of exceptions upon the
ground that it must be held that the judges who were present
at the opening of the court were present on the trial, is therefore overruled.
Whether a suit is one that arises Vnder the Constitution or
laws of the United States is determined by the questions involved. 'If from them it appears that somd title, right, privilege

COOKE v. AVERY.

.385

Opinion of the Coult.

or immunity on which the recovery depends will be defeated
by one construction of the Constitution or a law of the United
States, or sustained by the opposite construction, then the case
is one arising under the Constitution or laws of the United
States. Osborn v. Bank of the United -States,9 Wheat. 738;
Atarin v. New York, -115 -U.'S. 248, 257. -In Carson v' Dunham, 121 U. S. 421, if was ruled that it was necessary that
the construction* either of the Constitution or some law' or
treaty should be directly involved.in order to give jurisdiction,
although for the. purpose of the review-of the judgments of
state courts under section 709 of the Revised Statutes, it would
be enough if the right in question came from a commission
held or authority exercised under the United States.
Section 916 of .the Revised Statutes is as follows: '(The
party recovering a judgment in any common Jaw cause in. any
Circuit or District Court, shall be enfitled.to similar remedies
upon the same, by exdcuti~n or -otherwise, to 'reach the
property of the judgment debtor,. as'are iow provided in like
causes by the laws of the State in-which such coiirt is held, or
by any such' laws hereinafter enacted Which may be adopted
by general rules of such Circuit' or District Court; and such
courts may, from time to time, by genera-rules, adopt such
state laws as may hereafter be in force in such Stte in relation to remedies ipon judgments, as aforesaid, by execution' or
otherwise."
This section was taken from the a.ct, of Con gress.of June 1,
1872, entitled "An act to further the'-administration of
justice," (17 Stat. 196, c. 255,) and was rednacted. in the
Revised Statutes,, which took effect as of. December 1; 1873.
The remedies upon judgments under the section '.are such'
remedies as were provided by the laws of *the State in force
when it was passed or rednacted, or by subsquent 'laws of
the State adopted by the courts of the.United States-in the
manner provided for under that section. Lamaster v..Keler,
123 U. S.376.
On the former trial of this case the defqndant. cQntended
that, under a proper construction of section 916 and.the rules
of the Circuit Court, the laws of Texas in force in 1873 govVOL. cxLvir--25

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

erned the judgment lien under which plaintiff claimed title,
and that by those laws the lien was lost because execution had
not been issued each year prior to the issue of that on which
the land was sold; while plaintiff contended that the statutes
of Texas enacted in 1879 governed the lien, and under them
the lien was not lost by failure to issue the execution each year.
It is now insisted by defendants that the latter is the true
view, and hence it is said that there is no real and substantial
controversy arising under the laws of the United, States.
Clearly, the right of a plaintiff to sue cannot depend upon
the defence which a defendant may choose to set up, and as
on the first trial defendants relied on the decision of a Federal
question to defeat the action, such a concession of the existence of a Federal ingredient in the cause might fairly be held
to bind them when they subsequently abandon it, and seek to
oust the jurisdiction upon the ground that there could be no
real dispute as to the applicable law.
By section 34. of the Judiciary Act of September 24-, L789,
c. 20, (1 Stat. 92,) carried forward into section '721 of the
Revised Statutes, it was provided that the laws of the several
States except where the Constitution, treaties or laws of the
United States might otherwise require or provide, should be
regarded as rules of decision in trials at common law in the
courts of the United States in cases where they applied.
Section 2 of the act of September 29, 1789, (1 Stat. 93,) provided that the forms of writs and executions and modes 'of
process in the Circuit and District Courts in suits at common
law should be the same in each State, respectively, as in the
Supreme Courts of the same; and by the act of May 8, 1792,
(1 Stat. 275, c. 36,) these forms and .modes of proceeding as
then in use in the courts of the United States, under the act of
1789, were permanently continued ; but it was declared that
they were subject to such alterations and additions as the said
courts should, respectively, in their discretion, deem expedient,
or to such regulations as the Supreme Court of the United
States should from time to time think proper by rule to prescribe to any Circuit or District Court concerning the same.
This delegation of power has been repeatedly held-to be per-

COOKE v.'AVERY.
Opinion of the Court.

fectly constitutional, and that the power to alter and add to
the process or modes or proceeding in a suit, embraced the
whole progress of such suit, and every transaction in it from
its commencement to its termination, and until the judgment
should be satisfied. "IWayman v.. Southard, 10 Wheat. 1;
Beers v. Raughton, 9 Pet. 329, 359. The process act of May
19, 1828, (4 Stat. 278, c. 68; Rev. Stat. ยง 913,) made similar
provision and declared that it should be in the power of the
courts so far to alter .final -process therein as to conform
the same to any change made by the state legislatures for
the state courts.
By section 967, taken from the fourth section of the act of
July 4,18410, (5 Stat. 392, 393, c. 43,) the judgments and decrees
rendered in a Circuit or District Court within any State cease
to be liens on real estate in the same manner and at like
periods as the judgments and decrees of the courts of such
State cease by law to be liens thereon.
Under this legislation, judgments recovered in the Federal
courts were undoubtedly liens in all cases where they were
such by the laws of the States. Baker v. 3forton, 12 Wall.
150, 158 ; Ward v. Chamberlain, 2 Black, 430; .Mtassingill v.
-Downs, 7 How.760. But no right in the States to regulate
the operation of Federal judgments was thereby recognized,
and the lien of such judgments depended upon the acts of
Congress and the rules of the Federal courts. There was no
law of Congress, however, prior to August 1, 1888, which
expressly gave a lien to the judgments of the courts of the
United States or regulated the same, but on that day an act
was approved, which made such judgments liens on property
throughout the State in which the Federal courts sat, in the
same manner and to the same extent and under the same
conditions only as if rendered by the state courts. 25 Stat.
357, c. 729.
As we have seen, section 916 became operative as such
December 1, 1873. The statute of Texas in .force at that
date provided that final judgments rendered by any court of
record of the State should be a lien on all the real estate d'
the judgment debtor situated in the county where the judg-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

ment was rendered from the date of the judgment, and, upon
all his real estate situated in any other county from the time
when.a transcript of the judgment was filed for record in such
other county, as provided, and that.the lien should cease and
become inoperative if execution were not issued upon the
judgmbnt within one year from the first date upon which
,the- execution could by law be issued thereon. 2 Paischal's
Ann, Dig. Art. 7005.
The Supreme'Court of Texas decided that under this law
a judgment ceased to be a lien 'for want of diligence, unless
execution issued on it each year after it was rendered. Bassett
v. Proetzel, 53 Texas, 569; Barron v. Thompson, 54 Texas,
235 ; -Anthony v. Taylor, 68-Texas, 403.
In this case the judgment was rendered January 17, 1882,
and exebution issued thereon March 3, 1882, and no other, so
far as appeared, until August 11, 1886, and if the lien of the
judgment depended on the. law of Texas as existing December
1, 1873, and the decisions of the Supreme Court of Texas were
followed, the lien would have been lost by the failure to issue
execution on it each year. By the Revised Statutes of Texas,
passed in 1879, different provisions were made in relation to
judgment liens. By Articles 3153 and 3154, it was provided
that each clerk of the county court should keep in his office a
"judgment record," in which he should record all abstracts of
judgments filed for record'and authenticated as required, and
deliver to the judgment plaintiffs abstracts of such judgments
duly certified. Article 3155 was as follows: "The abstract
provided for in the .preceding article shall show: 1. The
names of the plaintiff and of the defendant in such judgment.
2. The number of the suit in which the judgment was rendered. 3. The date when such judgment was rendered. 4.
The amount -forwhich the same was rendered, and the amount
still due upon the same. 5. The rate of interest, if any is
specified in the judgment."
By Article 3157, the clerk was required to file and immediately record the abstract provided for in the preceding
articles, in the judgment record, noting ther'ein the day and
hour. of the record, and entering it at the same time upon the

COOKE v. AVERY.
Opinion of the Court.

index. Article 3158 was as follows: "The index to such
judgment record shall be ilpbabetical, and shall show the
name of each plaintiff and of each defendant in the judgment,
and the number of the page of the book upon which the
abstract is recorded." By Article 3159, any judgment recorded and indexed as provided should, from the date of such
record and index, operate as a lien upon the debtor's real
estate, which lien by Article 3160 was to continue for. ten
years from that date, unless the plaintiff failed to have execution issued within twelve months after the rendition of the
judgment. Article 3163 made provision for recording and
indexing in the same manner abstracts of judgments rendered
in the United States courts. 2 Sayles' Tex. Civ. Stats. 93, Tit.
61, c. 1.
To what extent, if at all, these articles were adopted by the
rules of the Circuit Court, and whether or not the lien could
only be originated by compliance with the requisition as to
the record and index of the abstract, was for the Circuit Court
to determine in the first instance. Judgments by the common
law Were not liens 4on real estate, but th' lien arose fiom
the power to issue a writ of elegit given by the statute of
Westminster, 13 Edw. I, c. 18. .2forsell v. First J2rat. Bank,
91. U. S.357, 360; . azsingill v. Downs, 7 How. 760, 765;
Shrew v. Janes, 2 McLean, 78, 80. It is argued that the writ
of elegit and the lien resulting from the right to extend, the
land never obtained under the laws of Texas, while on the
other hafid it is'said that, under the laws of Congress, this
judgment was a lien throughout the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court from the date it was rendered, without any abstract.
being recorded and indexed by a state officer.
In
"ifasingillv. Downm, where the state statute made the
judgment a lien upon the land of the debtor in the county
wherein it was recovered, and required the judgment to be
recorded in other counties in order to extend the lien on land
therein, it was ruled that a judgment in the Circuit Court was
a lien on the debtor's land in the district withopt such record,
or in other words, that the remedy for the enforcement of the
judgment was coextensive with the process of the court. In

OCTOBEIZ TEA*:41892.
Opinion of the Court.

United States v. Scott, 3 Woods, 334, it was held by Mr. Justice Bradley, holding the Circuit Court for the Western District of Texas, (June term, 1878,) that a judgment of that
court was a lien on defendant's lands ttiroughout th&district
without being recorded in the several counties where they lay.
The argument is, however, that as by section 914 the practice, pleadings and forms and modes of proceeding in the Circuit and District Courts are required to conform to those of
the state courts, the rule of the Circuit Court of April, 1880,
adopting the "modes of proceeding prescribed by the laws of
Texas" cannot r@fer to the modes of proceeding of that section, and must be construed to mean laws prescribing remedies
upon judgments subsequent toAthe enactment of section 916.
Thence, that no lien could originip, except in strict accordance
with the law of Texas of 1879. ,"The view taken by the Circuit Court rendered a solution ofthis question immaterial, but
the inquiry is significant in its relation to jurisdiction.
It is unnecessary to pursue this branch of the case further:
Plaintiff is to be regarded as the purchaser at the sale, and
the validity of his purchase turned upon the existence of a
lien, which he asserted and the defendants denied. The disposition of this issue depended upon the laws of the -United
States and the rules of the Circuit Court, and their construction and application were directly involved. We are of
opinion that jurisdiction as resting on the subject-matter was
properly invoked.
Passing to the merits- we find that the rulings of the Circuit Court in reference to plaintiff's title were not based on
any ground independent of the state statute of 1879, but
assumed its applicability. The object of the provision for
recording abstracts of judgments and indexing the same was
to apprise subsequent parties, as, for instance, intending purchasers, of the existence and character of the judgments, if a
reasonable amount of care and intelligence were exercised.
The abstract in this instance gave the judgment debtor's
name; the number of the suit in which the judgment was
rendered; its date; the amount; 4h-rate.of interest; that
the whole amount was still due and unpaid ;d-nd _t name of

COOKE v. AVERY.
Opinion of the Court.

the plaintiffs as "Deere, Mansur & Co." In all these particulars it was in accordance with Article 3155, except that it
did not give the individual names of the. plaintiffs, although
in giving the firm name it gave the surname of the plaintiff
first in order. The index gave the defendant's name and the
number of the page of the book upon which the abstract was
recorded, and the plaintiffs' name as Deere, Mansur & Co.,
and this both directly and in the reverse .order. The -only
ground on which this abstract and index could be heldinsufficient was that the names of the plaintiffs were not given in,
full in either abstract or index. Was this omission fatal to
the lien? The Circuit Court did not think so, and we concur
in that view.
In Willis v. Smith, 66 Texas, 31, 43, the Supreme Court of
that State said: "The object of the statute is not to encumber
the registry with full information, but to excite inquiry, and
indicate the source of full information."
It appears to us that the source of full information was so'
indicated in this instance that no reasonably prudent or cautious inquirer could go astray.
In Putnam, v. WAeeler, 65 Texas, 522, 525, the petition
stated the names of the plaintiffs to be Royal T. Wheeler and
Harry W. Rhodes, copartners as lawyers, but without giving
the style of the firm, and the citation: described the plaintiffs
as Wheeler and Rhodes. This was held sufficient, and the
Supreme Court said: "Giving the firm name of the plaintiffs
was not such defect in the citation as required the reversal of
the judgment."
Article 2281 of the Revised Statutes of Texas, prescribing
the requisites of an execution, states that it shall, among other
things, correctly describe the judgment, stating the court'
wherein, and the time ivhen, rendered, the names of the
parties, the amount actually due thereon, and the rate of
interest. In Smith v. Chenault, 8 Texas, 455, the title of the
judgment was "A. T. Chenault & Co.- vs. Smith and Young,"
and the judgment ordered that the plaintiffs recover of the
defendants, but the names of neither plaintiffs nor defendants
were given, while the execution recited that "whereas, A. T.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

recovered a judgment
Chenault and John.O. XcGhee .
against Elial A. Smith and Hugh F. Young," and the court
held that the execution sufficiently described the parties to
the judgment.
In Hfays v. Yarborough, 21 Texas, 487, the judgment
described the plaintiffs as "Yarborough and Ferguson," and
it was held to be a sufficient description. ' These decisions are
in harmony with the conclusion of the Circuit Court, and have
not been overruled or disaffirmed so far as we are informed.
Since this writ of error was pending the Supreme Court of
Texas has, indeed, held in Gulleet Gin Co. v. Oliver & Griggs,
78 Texas, 12, that where the index failed to give the individual names of the defendants in a judgment, but only the firm
.name, it was fatally defective, and to the same effect is, Pierce
v. Wimberly & Philips , '78 Texas, 187, although in the latter
case the full names of the plaintiffs were not given in the index.
The court referred to Eye v. .7oody, 70 Texas, 434,-but in that
case the abstract of the judgment had not been indexed at all.
The distinction in importance between giving the individual
names of the defendants and those of the plaintiffs is obvious.
Both parties claimed title from J. H. Payne as a common
source, and defendants offered the assignment to Harrington
to prove outstanding title without showing or attempting to
show any connection of their title with his. The action was
the statutory action of trespass. to try title, (2 Sayles' Civ.
Stats. Tex. Tit. 96, c. 1; Arts. 4784 to 4812,) and was not
made otherwise or the issues changed by the averments of the.
amended petition introduced for the purpose of maintaining
the jurisdiction. Under Article 4802 it was not necessary.for
the plaintiff to deraign title beyond a common source, and
-proof of a common source might be made by plaintiff by certified copies of the deeds -showing defendants' chain or claim
of title emanating from. such common source. Defendants
could not question the validity of their grantor's title at the
time of the conveyance to them in a contest with plaintiff,
claiming under the same grantor, unless, indeed, they claimed
under a paramount title, which they had acquired or connected
themselves with. This was so ruled in Cox v. Hrart, 145 U. S.

COOKE ". AVERY.
Opinion.of the Q-0urt.

376, where the decisions of the Supreme Court of Texas bearing on the point are fully cited. - The -assigninent was properly
excluded.
- Defendants had pleaded (1) not guilty; (2) for allowance of
value of improvements; (3)title outstanding in Harrington.
Defendants offered the original deed from Payne to Cooke,
dated January 2, 1886, which was objected to on the ground
"that said defendants having specially pleaded an outstanding
title, the defendants could not prove title in themselves." This
objection was sustained and the deed excluded. Defendants
also offered to prove that from January 1, 1882, until the sale
to Cooke, Payne was the head of a family, and that the land was
claimed and used by him as his homestead, and was therefore
not subject to the judgment lien, execution, levy and sale
through which plaintiff clainied. The sam.; objection was
made to this evidence and sustained.
The rule seems to be well settled that in this statutory
action, if the defendant pleads his title specially, he waives
the general issue, and is confined to the defence thus specially
pleaded. In Joyner v. JoAnson, 19 S. W. Rep. 522, the
Supreme Court of Texas said: "The principle which under.jes
this doctrine is that when a party, either plaintiff or defendant, in an action of trespass to try title, pleads his title specially,
he gives his adversary notice that he rests his case upon the
title so pleaded, and itis to be presumed that he relies upon
no other." Shields v.Hunt, 45 Texas, 424; Custard v. .Musgrove, 47 Texas, 217; St. Iouis & Texas Railway v. Whitaker,
68 Texas, 630. Apart from this, as we h ve. held that the lien
of the judgment was valid, the exclusion of the deed was
immaterial. As to the suggestion in relation to the homestead, this was an affirmative defence, and could not be made
under the pleadings as they stood. The plaintiff was not
required to offer in chief any proof as to the homestead, in
respect of which 'indeed, he had beeii given no notice that
it would be relied on, and the evidence offered by defendants was not in rebuttal of plaintiff's proof, but to establish
an independent ground for invalidating the lien. No such
defence was specially pleaded, while the-;general issue had

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion o

the Court.

been waived. The reference to the homestead in the plea for
the allowance.of improvements had relation to that subject
only, and could iiot be resorted to for any other purpose.
The provisions of the statutes of Texas on 'the subject of the
allowance for improvements in actions of trespass to try title
are contained in Articles 4813 to 4830, inclusive, (2 Sayles'
Tex. Civ. Stat. 639,) and are set forth at length and considered
in Cox v. Hart, 145 U. S. 376, 390. It must be alleged in the
pleadings that the defendant and those under whom he claims
have had adverse possession, in good faith, of' the premises in
controversy for at least one year next before the commencement of the suit, and that he and those under whom he claims
have made permanent and valuable improvements on the landsued for during the time they have had such possession. It is
clear that the defendants Cooke were not in possession for.
twelve months before the commencement of the suit under any
written evidence of title, for their deed was dated January 2,
1886, and the suit was commenced December 21 of that year;
but they proposed to prove that they were in possession prior
to the execution of the deed, under a verbal contract to con)vey, although they admitted that the consideration was not
paid until the date of the deed. Thie evidence offered was to
the effect that Cooke, after making his bargain with Payne,
"immediately" entered upon possession and "commenced"
the erection of iniprovements, and that he erected improvements of large value upon the land, in-good faith, after the
commencement of his possession aud before he knew of any
judgment lien. There is a lack of definiteness in this offer,
which under the circumstances probably did not commend it to
the Circuit Court, for it did not appear therefroim that any of
the improvements were made before the date of the deed, or
exactly when, except that it-was before Cooke obtained actual
knowledge of the judgment lien.
In Eiam v. Parkkilt,60 Texas, 581, it is said: "To entitle a
party to a recovery for the value of improvements it-is essential thit he be a. possessor in good faith. . .
. While title
is not essential upon which'to predicate a claim for the value of
improvements, it is necessary that the party should enter and

COOKE v. AVERY.
Opinion 'of the Court.

claim under color of title. That is, the party must claim under
an apparent title, which he in good faith believes to be theyeal
title to the land."

So in .Morrill v. Bartlett, 58 Texas, 644, it

was held that "a claim under the statute by a defendant sued
for land, that he had made permanent and valuable improvements thereon, cannot be regarded when there is no evidence
that he ever paid anything for the land, or received a deed
therefor, and when he was informed of the controversy which
jeopardized his possession before improving the land."
Many decisions of the Supreme Court of Texas tothe same
effect are cited by counsel. House v. Stone, 64 Texas, 677..
685; .atchett v. Conner, 30 Texas, 104; Powell v. Davis, 19
Texas, 380; Armstrong v. Oppenheimer, 19 S. W. Rep. 520.
We are satisfied that defendants were chargeable with notide
of the judgment lien, and did not ds against the plaintiff
occupy theposition of adverse possessors, under a claim of title
made in good faith prior to the deed of January 2, 1886.
Moreover, no evidence was offered to prove the value of the
land without regard to the improvements, an essential condition to the application of the statute. Cox v. Hart, supra.
When and how far the remedy for valuable improvements may
be sought in the courts of 'the 'United States, otherwise than in
equity, we do not consider.
Judgment was correctly entered against all the defbndants
for the recovery of tha title and possession of the land, nd as
the Mortgage Company was only interested through the deed
of trust to Simpson, it was properly omitted in the recovery of
damages.
It is conceded that th4 defendant M. E. Cooke was the wife
of her codefendant, J. I. Cooke. The claim unhder the deed
from Payne must be presumed to have been in community, it
being the settled law of Texas that property purchased after
the marriage is jrimafacie such, whether the conveyance be
in the name of the husband or of the wife, or in their joint
names. V'eramendi v. Hutc ins, 48 Texas, 531, 550; Cooke
v. Bremond, 27 Texas, 457; S. C. 86 Am. Dec. 626; Xitchell v.
.Aarr, 26 Texas, 329. But it does not follow that a general
personal judgment, in damages for use anad occupation, under

