KNOX COUNTY v. NINTH NATIONAL BANK.

91

Statement of the Case.

KNOX COUNTY

.

INTH NATIONAL BANK.

ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
No. 78. Argued December 2, 5,1892. -Decided January 2, 1893.

The question under what statute of Missouri the bonds were issued which
form the subject of this controversy was properly determinable in a suit
on the bonds.
An order of court, directing a notice of an election which was to take place
in thirty-four days to be given by publication in a designated newspaper
for five weeks, iuust be construed to mean a publication in each of the
five weeks.
Where an act is done which can be done legally only after the performance
of some prior act, proof of the later carries with it a presumption of the
due performance of the prior act. •
Decisions of state courts upon the requirements of state statutes for
validating issues of municipal bonds in the State, when made subsequent
to an issue of such bonds, are .not controlling in litirations in Federal
courts, involving the validity of such issue.
When the matter in dispute is whether a particular Issue of municipal bonds
was made under one statute of the State in which the municipality is
situated or under another, the whole conduct of the municipality, both
before, at the time and after the issue of the bonds, may be shown to
aid in determining the question.
In a subscription by a municipal corporation to aid in the construction of
a railroad, it is sufficient if the route is designated, leaving to the municipal authorities to designate the particular corporation to be the recipient of the subscription.
The bonds issued by Knox County, Missouri, to the Missourland Mississippi
Iailroad Company, were issued in pursuance of the general laws of the
State, and not under the act of the legislature of Missouri, of February
20, 1865, to incorporate that company, and the county powers of taxation
are not limited by the provisions of section 13 of the act incorporating
the company.

ON February 20, 1865, the legislature of the State of Missouri passed an act to incorporate the Missouri and Mississippi
Railroad Company. (Session Acts 1865, p. 86.) Section ',
prescribing the route of said road, reads:
"SEO. 7. Said board of directors shall have full power and

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

authority
.arvey, mark out, locate and construct a railroad
from the town of Macon, in the county of Macon, in the
State of' Missouri, through the town of Edina, in the county
of Knox, in said State, and thence to or near the northeast
corner of said State, in the directiou of Keokuk, in Iowa, or
Alexandria, Missouri."
By section 13 it was provided:
"SEC. 13. ,It shall be lawful for the corporate authorities of
any city or town, the county court of any county desiring so
to do, to sulscribe to the capital stock of said company and
may issue bonds therefor and levy a tax to pay the same, not
to exceed one-twentieth of one per cent upon assessed value of
taxable property for each year."
Chapter 63 of the General Statutes of Missouri of 1866, is
a general statute in reference to railroad companies. Section
17 of that chapter is as follows:
"SEC. 17. It shall be lawful for the county court of any
county, the couficil of any city or the trustees of any incorporated town, to take stock for such county, city or town in
or loan the credit thereof,,to any railroad company duly organized under this or any other law of the State: Provided,
that two-thirds of the qualified voters of such county, city or
town, at a regular or special election to be held therein, shall
assent to such subscription." Gen. Stats. of Missouri, 1866,
page 338; 1 Wagner's Stats. 1870, page 305.
On October 1, 1867, and on.February 1, 1868, the county of
Knox issued.$100,000 in ten-year bonds to the Mis ouri and
Mississippi Railroad Company. The body of the bond is inthese words:
"Know all men by these presents: The county of Knox,
State of Missouri, acknowledges itself indebted to the Missouri and Mississippi Railroad Company, (organized by an act
of the general assembly of the State of Missouri,) or bearer,
in the sum of $500.00 which said sum the said county promises
to pay at the National Bank of Commerce, in the city of New
York, . . . with interest at 7 per cent per annum, which
interest shall be payable annually on presentation of the
coupon hereto aniiexed at said National Bank of Commerce,

KNOX COUNTY v. NINTH NATIONAL BANK.

93

Statement of the Case.

in the city of New York, this bond being issued under and
pursuant to order of the county court of Knox County for
subscription to the stock of the Missouri and Mississippi Railroad Company as authorized by an act of the general assembly
of the State of Missouri, entitled 'An act to incorporate the
Missouri and Mississippi Railroad Company,' approved February 20, 1865."
On June 14, 1884, the defendant in error claiming to be the
owner of certain of these bonds, brought suit in the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Eastern District of Missouri.
In the petition it was allegea that "all of said bonds and coupons were authorized, issued and negotiated by said defendant
county under and by authority of orders of the county court
of said county, duly entered on the records of said court, and
under and by the authority of a special election of the qualified voters of said Knox-County, duly ordered and held, under
and according to the laws of Missouri, in said county on the
12th day of March, 1867, at which election five hundred and
ten votes were duly and legally cast in favor of making the'
subscription to the said company and of issuing therefor the
bonds herein described, and only ninety-eight votes were cast
against the said subscription and issue of bonds." The answer
admitted' the issue of the bonds, but alleged that they were
issued under the authority conferred upon the County Court
of Knox County by the thirteenth section of the act incorporating the Missouri and Mississippi Railroad Company, and
expressly denied that they were "issued to said Missouri and
Mississippi Railroad Company in payment of said subscription
in compliance with a vote of the people of said county, as
alleged in said petition." Upon these pleadings the case went
to trial before a jury which resulted in a verdict and judgment
on March 7, 1888, in favor of the plaintiff -for the amount due
on the bonds, and coupons and an adjudication "that the bonds
and coupons sued upon by plaintiff were' duly issued by the
defendant county under and by authority of [an] order of the
county court for that purpose and under and by authority of
a special election of the qualified -voters of said county duly
ordered and held in said county for that purpose, at which

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court:

more than two-thirds of such qualified voters voting at said
election voted for the subscription of stock and issue of said
bonds and coupons, as charged in plaintiff's petition; and further, said bonds and coupons, together with the subscription
aforesaid, were duly authorized by a vote of the qualified
voters of said county, taken according to the laws of the
State of Missouri." To reverse which judgment the county
sued out this writ of error.
Ar.B. R. -Dysart, (with whom was MrA.1.
on the brief,) for plaintiff in error.

G. Mitchell

.Mr.J.B. Hlenderson for defendant in error.
Mr.. JUsTIcE BREWER, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
o question arises in this case as to the amount of the judgment, or as to the validity of the bonds as obligations of Knox
County. The answer in terms admitted the indebtedness, and
the only question which was litigated was whether the bonds
were issued solely under and by virtue of section 13 of the act
incorporating the Missouri and Mississippi Railroad Company,
or were supported by a vote of the people under the general
railroad law. The difference between the two consists in this:
If the bonds were issued under the general stqtute and in pursuance of the vote of the people, they are payable without
restriction as they fall due, and mandamus will lie to compel
a levy sufficient to-pay the judgment; if issued only under
section 13 of the Missouri and Mississippi Railroad Company
act, a special levy of not exceeding one-twentieth of one per
cent of the assessed valuation for each year is all that can be
enforced. United States v. County of .A-acon, 99 U. S. 582.
That this was a matter properly determinable in a suit on
the bonds, and one to be finally settled by the judgment
therein, is clear from the case of Haramman v. Enox County,
129 U. S. 306.
While the bonds on their face recite that they are "issued
under and pursuant to order of the county court of Knox

KNTOX COUNTY v. NINTH NATIONAL BANK.

95

Opinion of the Court.

County, for subscription to the stock of the Missouri and
Mississippi Railroad Company, as authorized by an act of the
general assembly of the State of Missouri, entitled ' An act to
incorporate the Missouri and Mississippi Railroad Company,'
approved February 20, 1S65," and while such a recital may be
invoked by the holder of the bonds as an estoppel against the
county, it is not conclusive in its favor as to the act under
which the bonds were in fact issued. Gommissioners v. Janwam', 94: U. S. 202. The questions, therefore, to be considered
are those which arise in respect to the admission of testimony,
its sufficiency, and the instructions of the court. In reference to the former, it may be remarked that several witnesses
were called, among them two who were county judges at the
time the bonds were issued; that all were asked as to the talk
which took place at the time the bonds were issued, and the
county judges, as to which act they relied upon in the issue of
the bonds, and what they thought and intended in the matter.
It is unnecessary to express an opinion as to the competency
of this testimony, for no exceptions were taken to that which
was offered by the plaintiff, and of course the defendant cannot
allege error in the admission of that which it offered.
The record evidence consisted, among other things, §f these
matters: An order of the county court of Knox Couaty, on
February 6, 1867, upon a petition therefor, directing a: special
election to be held.on the question of subscribing $100,000 to
the stock of a railroad company constructing a road through
Knox County, (no particular company was mentioned in the
order, and three different lines of road were described, l one of
them similar.to that named in the charter of the Missouri and
SMississippi Railroad Company;) a record of the canvass of the
votes at such election, showing 510 .votes for and 98 votes
against the subscription; and an order of the county court
of May 13, 1867, authorizing the presiding justice of the court
to subscribe in the name of the county of Knox for a htindred
thousahd dollars of the capital.stook of the Missouri and Mi sissippi Railroad Company. The terms of this subscription, s
prescribed in this order, were the same as those in the order
for an election, to wit, that the bonds should be used for work

OCTOBER TER.AI, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

actually done on the road within the limits of Knox County.
The plaintiff also introduced the orders of the county court
with respect to the levy of taxes to pay the interest on these
bonds for the years from 1868 to 1875, inclusive, which ranged
from thirty to seventy-five cents on the hundred dollars, until
the year 1875, when it was only five cents, or one-twentieth of
one per cent. It was admitted that in May, 1874, a decision
of the Supreme Court of the State of Missouri was announced,
State v. Shwrtridge, 56 Missouri, 126, by which the power of
county courts to levy taxes for the payment of bonds issued to
the Missouri and Mississippi Railroad Company was limited
to one-t'ventieth of one per cent, as prescribed in section 13 of
its charter, and'that the order made by the county court of.
Knox County, on the 23d of April of that year, levying
seventy-five cents on the hundred dollars, was on the 1st
day of June set aside, and a levy of five cents ordered. There
was also offered in evidence a certified copy of certain leaves
of the bond register of Knox County, showing a statement of
the bonded debt outstanding January 1, 1874, on which is a.
minute that $100,000 of the bonds issued to the Missouri and
Mississippi Railroad Company were "ordered by an election
held 12th of March, 1867;" also a statement of the financial
condition of the county published in a county newspaper by
order of the county court, in which was a substantially similar
statement.
Upon this we notice two or three of the principal points made
by counsel for plaintiff in error: The' order for the election
directed that notice thereof" be given through the _2Jissouri
]1atchman, for five weeks, and by printed handbills publicly
exposed throughout the county." It also named the second
Monday in March as the day for the election. No evidence
was offered of any printed handbills, or of the publication of
notice in the _3fis.ouri Watchman. It is insisted that in the
absence of evidence there can be no presumption that notice
was given either by handbills or in the newspaper; and, secondly, that between the date of the order, February 6, and the
date of the election, March 12, ie was not possible to make the
prescribed publication, because, excluding the day of the order

KNOX COUNTY v. NINTH NATIONAL- BAN'K
Opinion of the Court.

an including the day of. the election, there would be only
thirty-four days, or one day lacking the five fill weeks. The
statutes of Missouri, at that time in force, provided, in accorda-ce with the general rule" in respect to such matters, that
"the time within which an act is to be done shall be computed
by excluding the first-day and including the last." Gen. Stats.
Missouri, 1866, p. 84, § 6. -But the notice required for this
election was not prescribed by statute. It was fixed by order
of the county court, and there being but thirty-four days between the day of the order and that named for the election, it
must be presumed that what was intended was not a publication for five full weeks of seven days each, but a publication in
each of the five weeks, which could easily be made in the thirtyfour days. It cannot be supposed.that the county court directed
a notice which it was impossible to give, or that it was putting
the people to the annoyance and the county to the expense of
an election which was necessarily void by reason of an inability to comply with the terms of the order. The order must
be construed so as to make possible a valid election, and that
is accomplished by construing it, and in a reasonable way, as
requiring advertisement in five successive weekly issues of the
paper named.
Again, the election was held, the votes. cast at that election
were canvassed by the proper officers, and an order made by,
the county court for a subscription in accordance with the
terms of the order for the election. From these facts it may
be presumed that proper notices of the election were given;
for it is a rule of very general application; that where an act
is done which can be done legally only after the performance
of some prior act, proof of the later carries with it a presumption of the due performance of the prior act. In Bank of the
United States.v. Dandridge, 12 Wheat. 64, 70, it was said:
"The same presumptions are, we think, applicable to corporations. Persons acting publicly as officers of the corporation
are to be presumed rightfully"in office ; acts done by the corporation which presuppose the e~istence of other acts to make
them legally operative are presumptive proofs of the latter.
. .. Ifofficers of the corporation openly exercise a power
VOL. cxLvnI-7

.

OCTOBER TERMlf, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

which presupposes a delegated authority for the purpose, and
other corporate acts show that the corporation must have contemplated the legal existence of such authority, the acts of
such officers will be deemed rightful, and the delegated authority will be presumed.

.

.

In short, we think that the

acts of artificial persons afford the same presumptions as the
acts of natural persons. Each affords presumptions, from acts
done, of what must have preceded them, as matters of right
or matters of duty."
But further, the validity of the bonds is admitted by the
answer, and, therefore, it is unnecessary to prove every separate step which otherwise might be required in order to show
the legality of this issue. The inquiry here is, under what act
and by what authority the county court issued them; and in
determining that question, any statement on the records of
the county may be competent evidence, and from all the acts
and circumstances it is to be determined under which act the
county was proceeding. Suppose the bonds contained no
recitals, but simply an acknowledgment of indebtedness, and
in a suit on them their validity was admitted, and there were
two statutes, under either of which the bonds might have been
issued, a single entry on the records of the county might be
sufficient, in the absefice of all other testimony, to support a
finding that the bonds were issued under one rather than the
other statute. All that can be said from the omission to introduce in evidence a full recital of all the steps necessary to
make a perfect proceeding under the general statute is,
that
such omission detracts from the force of the testimony from
the records and proceedings actually produced. In this respect it will be noticed that there is a marked difference between an omission to prove one step in a prescribed course of
proceeding, and evidence that such step was not taken, for if
it were established that one essential step in a course of proceeding'required by one statute was not taken, it might well
be held that the bonds admitted to be valid were in fact issued
under the other statute.
This brings us to notice a point made in reference to the
instructions: There was testimony tending to prove that a

KNOX COUNTY v. NINTH NATIONAL BANTK.

99

Opinion of the Court.

registration had been,-made of the qualified voters of the
co inty, and that it showed over 1000 such voters. The vote
cast at the election 'was, for the subscription, 510, and against,
98; that is, more than two-thirds of those who actually voted
assented to the subscription; but not two-thirds of the qualified voters, as shown by the registration. Several decisions of
the Supreme Court of Missouri are cited, the latest being that
of State v. Harris,96 IMissouri 29, in which that court has held
that two-thirds of those actually voting is not sufficient; and
that it must appear that two-thirds of the qualified voters, as
ascertained by the registration, asmenteil to the subscription,
and it.is said that this court follows the settled construction
placed upon its statutes by the Supreme Court of a State.
This question has been thoroughly discussed in this court, and
it is unnecessary to enter into any reexamination of it. These
decisions were made after the issue of the bonds, and cannot
be deemed controlling. Cass County v. Johnston, 95 U. S.
360; Daviess'County v. Buidekover, 98 U. S. 98 ; Douglassv.
Pike County. 101 U. S. 677; Carroll County v. Smith, 111
U. S.556.
Another matter is this: It will be remembered that the
court permitted the plaintiff to offer in evidence the tax levies
for several years after the issue of the bonds; a copy of the
entries made on'the bond register of the county in 1874, showing the bonded indebtedness of the county; and a financial
statement of the county, published by direction of the county
court. It also instiucted the jury that they iuight consider
these matters in determining what was the intent of the county
court in issuing the bonds, "that is to say, whether they intended to act exclusively under the railroad charter, or under
authority conferred by a popular vote, or under both powers."
It was not said by the court that these matters created an
estoppel upon the county, or concluded it as to the question,
but simply that they were matters to be considered. It is a
familiar rule that the interpretation given. to a 'ontract by the
parties themselves is competent, and oftentimes very weighty,
evidence in determining its meaning and force. So in a matter of this kind, the whole conduct of the county, both before,

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

at the time, and after the issue of the bonds, may be shown to
aid in determining under what statute and by what authority
the ccunty proceeded in the issue of these bonds. Chicago v.
Sheldon, 9 Wall. 50, 54; Steinbach v. Stewart, 11 Wall. 566,
576; Canal Company v. Hill, 15 Wall. 94; /erriam v. United
States, 107 U. S. 437; United States v. Gibbons, 109 U. S. 200.
Again, it is urged that the order for the election was invalid,
inasmuch as no corporation was named as the proposed recipient of the subscription, but it has been held to the contrary,
and that it is sufficient if the route is designated, leaving to
the county authorities theselection of the.particular corpora-.
tion to be the recipient of the subscription. Commissioners v.
Thayer, 94 U. S. 631; Sc~pio v. WFright, 101 U. S. 665.
Another matter requires notice, and it is of great significance: The constitution of the State of Missouri, adopted July
4, 1865, article II, section 14, provided that "the general
assembly siall not authorize any county, city or town to
become a stockholder in or to loan its credit to any company,
association or corporation unless two-thirds of the qualified
voters of such county, city-or town, at a regular or special elec..
tion, to be held therein, shall assent thereto." At the October
term, 1867, of the Supreme Court of Missouri, .the case of
State v. Macon County Court,41 Missouri, 453, was decided, in
which it was held that the constitution had no retroactive
effect upon statutes passed before its adoption, and that, therefore, under the Missouri and Mississippi Railroad Company act,
passed February 20, 1865, a few months before the adoption
of the constitution, there was power in the county authorities
to subscribe without the assent of the voters. It may. well be
believed as asserted by counsel for defendant in error, that,
until that decision was announced, the understanding that the
prohibition 'in the constitution tuperseded all unexecuted
authority given by prior charters was so general, that no
county court would have dared to subscribe stock and issue
bonds without the assent of two-thirds of the qualified voters.
This subscription was made, some of the bonds issued, as well
as the vote held, before the decision in the Macon County case,
and it is difficult to believe that the county court did not issue

