360

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of-the Case.

States elected to give, and the claimants consented to take,
two annual salaries amounting to $8000 a year, as an equivalent for such percentageI that, as the claimants thus departed
from the general rule of architects, of measuring their compensation by the customary fees of their profession, and did so
without any express agreement or reservation as to the preceding part of their service, the court was of the opinion that
such part should be estimated according to the same rule,
which the parties had themselves adopted; and that, taking
those facts of mutual acquiescence as elements for computing
damages, bearing, in mind that a period of about six years
existed between October, 1874, when the claimants began to
give their entire time to what may be termed the evolution of
their plans, and January 14, 1881, when the plans were' submitted to Congress, and remembering also that one of the
claimants had received from the government, for other professional services connected with the Library, the sum of
$4600, the court found as the value of perfecting the design
and preparing the plans a like equivalent of six years' service
at $8000 a year, and fixed the damages at $48.000. This we
consider a proper and reasonable- decision.
Judgment affirmed.

GLENN v. GARTH.
E"ROR TO THE SUPREkE COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YOR.
N9o. 1160. Submitted Noveimber 28, 1892. -Decided January 23, 1893.
The mere construction by the highest court of a State of a statute of
another, State, without questioning- its validity, does not deny to it the
full faith and credit which the Constitution and laws of the United
States demand, in order to.give this court jurisdiction on writ of error.
This is especially true when therelare nb decisions of the highest court of
the latter State in conflict with the construction made by the court of
the former State.

M ioO to dismiss, or 'affirm.
This was an action commenced October .26, 1886,..in the Supreme Court of the city,

GLENN v. GARTH.
Statement of the Case..

county;; :and State of'New York, by John Glenn, as trustee,,
against David J. Garth, IRobert A. Lancaster, and Samuel J.'
Harrison, impleaded with others, to recover the amount of
two assessments made by the courts of the State of Virginia
upon the stock and stockholders of the National Express and
Transportation Company, a corporation of that State.
The defendants -denied that they had at any time become
the holders or. owners of shares of the capital stock of the
corporation by assignment . and transfer fro rm the original'
subscriber or subscribers for said 'shares or otherwise, and
denied that they at any time became and were received and
accepted'by the corporation as stockholders in and members
thereof for the number of shares alleged, or any shares
whatsoeve'.
The record of the judicial: proceedings of - the courts of
Virginia put in evidence established the basis of plaintiff's
right to recover against the stockholders of the company for
the assessments in question, and evidence was adduced on.
both sides bearing on the question of the liability of defendants as stockholders.
The trial court directed a verdict for the plaintiff, and, on
motion of defendants' counsel, ordered their exceptions to be
heard in the first instance at the general term and that judgment be suspended in the meantime. At the general term
defendants moved on their exceptions 'for a new trial, and the
Supreme Court sustained the exceptions; set aside the verdict,
and granted a new trial. From this order the plaintiff appealed
to the Court of Appeals, giving tho stipulation, exacted by
the INew York statute in that behalf, that if the order granting a new trial, should be affirmed there should be judgment absolute against~him. The Court of Appeals affirmed
the order appealed from, with judgment absolute against the
plaintiff. The remittitur and record were sent down to the
Supreme Court, with directions to enter the judgment and to
proceed according to law, whereupon the Supreme Court
directed the judgment of the Court of Appeals to be made the
judgment of that court, with costs to be adjusted, and that
defendants have execution. The costs were adjusted and

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Stitement of the Case.

judgment therefor entered May 10, 1892. Application was
made in the Court of Appeals for a reargument, which was
refused in due course. A writ of error from this court to the
Supreme Court of New York was then allowed, and now
comes before us on motion to dismiss.
The opinion of the Supreme Court in general term is given
in the record, though not reported, as appears in 60 Hun, 584.
The case is therein stated in substance as follows: Defendants
Harrison, Garth and Lancaster were engaged in the business
of bankers, afid brokers in stocks, bonds and securities, in
New York, under the firm name of Harrison, Garth & Co.
They had a customer named Ficklin, who desired to purchase
shares of the National Express and Transportation Company
upon a margin. Garth agreed to carry the shares for Ficklin,
that is, to pay for them as Ficklin purchased them, upon
receipt of a sufficient margin to secure the firm against loss.
This stock was not listed upon the New York Stock Exchange,
but :Ficklin informed Garth that he could pick the shares up
at Baltimore and other places. Some time after the making
of this arrangement several lots of the shares were purchased,
presumably on Ficklin's orders, through McKim & Co., brokers
in Baltimore, and, in accordance with Garth's promise to carry
them, Harrison, Garth & Co. settled the account of McKim &
Co. for what they had disbursed in the transaction. The
certificates of stock were sent on from Baltimore by McKim
& Co. to Harrison, Garth & Co., as security for the advances
thus made by the firm to Ficklin. The invariable custom in
such cases is for the seller to deliver the certificates to the
broker with a blank assignment and power of attorney to
transfer on the books of the company endorsed thereon. Such
a thing as placing stock in the name of the firm, when thus
acting as brokers, had never once occurred in all its business
life. Instead of following the custom and forwarding the
ordinary and proper documents, McKim & Co. had the shares
transferred on the books of the company into the name of
Harrison', Garth & Co., and it was the certificates naming the
firm as the owners of the shares which were sent on to defendants. This act of McKim & Co. was not only contrary to

'GLENN v. GA±-CTH.
Statement of the Case.

precedent, but as a matter of fact entirely unauthorized. The
moment Garth observed the forms of the certificates, he
repudiated the transfer to his firm, and endeavored to effect
a retransfer. He knew that the stock was assessable and
liability might result from the acceptance of the certificates
made out in the name of his firm, but at the same time he
could not prudently return the certificates to the Pompany
and demand their cancellation for the reason that the firm
had advanced their money upon the security of the shares.
He notified Ficklin and required him to have the stock taken
up and transferred from the firm's name; he also returned
the certificates to McKim & Co. with instructions to have
them sold and transferred from the name of the firm. There'
was no delay or hesitation; disaffirmance followed at once
upon notice of the unauthorized act. Some attempt was made
upon the trial to prove that Harrison, Garth & Co. dealt
directly with IcKim & Co., but the evidence was insufficient
even to amount to a conflict Qn that point.
The court ruled that no person could be made a stockholder
without his knowledge or consent; that there is nothing in
any statute which makes the books of a company incontrovertible evidence on that head,; that the actual fact may
always be inquired into, and if it be shown that the transferee upon the books never consented to accept the shares, the
transfer to him is simply null and void; that these defendants
had not by any neglect or default brought themselves within
any just principle of estoppel; and upon a careful review of
all the evidence adduced upon the trial the court found "that
the defendants never became stockholders of the corporation
represented by the plaintiff, and consequently are not responsible for the unpaid assessments sought to be recovered in this
action."
The opinion of the Court of Appeals is reported in 133 N. Y.
18, 36,43. The case was fully considered and discussed and the
same conclusions arrived at. Among other things the learned
judge who delivered the opinion of the court said: "But it is
further claimed that under the statutes of Virginia, as expounded by their courts, the transfer upon the books of the

364:

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

company is conclusive upon the defendants, and makes them
stockholders at least as to creditors, irrespective of the circumstances of the registry.
It is obvious that any enactment
which enabled " wrongdoer to load upon a stranger the heavy
responsibilities of a stockholder without his knowledge gr
assent would be an outrage upon the rights of the individual,
not to be expected. The statutes of Virginia accomplish no
such wrong, but -operate reasonably within certain- wellddfined limits. We are referred'to the Code of 1860, chapter
57 and section 7.. That regulates the rights of the assignor of
stock, appearing as owner upon the corporate books, relatively
to his assignee who does not so appear, and to the creditors of
and subsequent purchasers from the former, and vests the
title in the assignee; not, let it be observed, for all purposes,'
but 'so far as may be -necessary-to effect the purpose of the
sale; pledge or other disposition,' and subject to the provisions
of the 25th section. That is in these words :- ' A person in
whose. name shares of stock stand on the books of the company.shll be deemed the owner thereof as regards the .company.' The plain meaning is that the corporation which has
acknowledged the ownership and accepted its evidence and
admitted it upon its records shall not be at liberty to dispute
it. Its meaning is not that it shall be conclusive against the
alleged stockholder, Indeed, in Yanderkea v..Glenn, (85
Virginia, 9,) the court state the rule to be that the record upon
the corporate books is primafacie evidence of the owxiership,
and after examining all the-cases referred to I find none which
ventare any further.'
And in the opinion upon-'the motion for reargument it was
further said: "Of course, the question discussed is vital to, the
controversy. Under the law, both of this State and of Yir:
ginia, one may be, as we said in the. former opinion, a holder
of sto k without being, in the full sense of the term, a stockholder. Ourstatute'of 1848, as to manufacturing corporations,
(c. 140, § 16,) and- that of 1850, as to railkoads, recognized
that a person may hold shares as collateral without ;"eing
liable to assessment; and it rests upon the bbvious ground
that the pledgor, in whose name the stock is registered, re

GLENI

_v. GARTH.

Argument against the Motion.

mains the general owner, notwithstanding the pledge, and the
company cannot treat him otherwise, nor practically claim
that both pledgor and pledgee are at the same time stockholders of the same stodk. The pledgor remains liable; the pledgee
never becomes so. The statute of Virginia (Code of 1860, c.
57, § 25) makes those and only those stockholders, 'as it rdspects the company,' whose names are registered on its books
as such; and that enactment, thus requiring an acceptance
and recognition of the stockholder. by the corporation, shows
that it is a contract relation which is . contemplated and involves an actual assent on both sides, The seeming intimation ventured on behalf of the appellant that the effect of
that act is to make one conclusively a stockholder whose name
was registered, whether he knew and assented or'not, is-too
plainly unendurable to require serious discussion. No one can
be made a stockholder without his consent, express or implied.
And so there is no view of the subject which can dispense
with proof of that assent by the defendants as a vital and
necessary element of the plaintiff's case."
2fT'. lVilaiezmn C. Clopton, .Wr. Robert .L. llarrisonand -Mr.
John 1?. Abney for the motion.
.Xr. Burton -YW. Harrisonopposing.
This court has jurisdiction upon the writ of error to review
the judgment of the state court here' complained of. The
Federal question is clear, and the denial of the plaintiff's right
under the Constitution of the United States is manifest. The
plaintiff in error claimed, under public acts and judicial proceedings of the State of Virginia' The refusal of the Courts
of the State of New-York to give to those acts-full faith and
credit, and to give to those judicial proceedings the same
effect in their operation upon the title of this plaintiff in error
to recover from thes6 defendants in error, as they have by
law and usage in the State of Virginia itself, (which is the full
faith and credit required by the Constitution,) constitutes a
proper: case for review in this Court under Sections 709 and

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Argument against the Motion.

905 of the Revised Statutes of the United States. H~oyt v. Shelden, 1 Black, 518 ; -Murdockv. .Memphis, 20 Wall. 590; Gross
v. United States Xortgage Co., 108 U. S. 477; Adams County
v. Burlington & .issouri Railroad,112 U. S. 123; Philadelphia Fire ins. Co. v. fNew York, 119 U. S. 110; Walter A.
Wood Co. v. Skinner, 139 U. S. 293; Dale Tile 7M'f'g Clo. v.
Eyatt, 125 U. S. 46; Hawkins v. Glenn, 131 U. S. 319; Glenn
v. Liggett, 135 U. S. 533; Lewis v. Glenn, 84 Virginia, 947;
Tanderwerken v. Glehn, 85 Virginia, 9; Williams v. Taylor,
120 N. Y. 244; Sands v. Campbell, 31 N. Y. 345; Berrien v.
WVright, 26 Barb. 208; leQueen v. Babcock, 41 Barb. 337;
Hubbell V. .edbu7ry, 53 N. Y. 98; Finke v. Funke, 25 Hun,
616;
VaWagoner v. Terpenning, 46 Hun, 425; Wilkinson
v. First _NVat. Ins. Co., 72 N. Y. 499; Murray v. Charleston,
96 U. S. 432; Bridge Proprietors v. Hoboken Co., 1 Wall.
116 ; Furman v. Vichol, 8 Wall.'44; Green v. Yan Buskirk,
5 Wall. 307; Crapo.v. JKelly, 16 Wall. 610.
Mr. 7ohn H1owardi opposing, made the following points:
I. That the whole case depended upon Virginia law and
judicial proceedings, and the facts as shown.
H1. That the court below decided the case without respect
thereto,'and based its decision upon the common law and its'
usages and customs, and the private intention of the defendants in error, instead of upon their actual dealings with this
stocl, subject to the Virginia Code.
III. That the'decision necessarily involved, by legal intendnflent and implication, a denial of the Federal rights involved.
IV. And that there was no separate and independent ground
broad enough to support the judgment, except by excluding
the Federal rights involved in the very nature of the proceedings and proofs, and in" the decision of the court below adversely to the rights claimed.
V. That a judgment of reversal should be. rendered, upon
the merits, in accordance with the leading case of furdock v.
fMemphis, 20 Wall. 590; and that this court should now render
a judgment such as the New York court ought to have done.

GLENN v. GARTH.
. Opinion of the Court.

And after having paid the judgment the defendants in error
-will have a clear remedy not only against whoever wrongfully
caused the stock to be transferred to their names upon books
of the company, (if anybody did,) but against their assignees of
the stock for indemnity. Kellock v. Entove, L. R. 9 Q. B.
241.
Mni. CnF JusncE. FuLLFR, after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court.
We are unable to discover any sufficient ground upon which
to rest jurisdiction of this writ of error. The requirement of
section 1 of Article IV of the Constitution, that '!full faith
and credit shall be given in each State to the public acts,
records and judicial proceedings of every other State," is
referred to by counsel, as also section 905 of the Revised
Statutes, which provides for the authentication of the acts of
the legislature, and of the records and judicial proceedings of
the courts, of any State or Territory, and concludes: "And the
said records and judicial proceedings so authenticated shall
have such faith and credit given to them in every court within
the United States as they have by law or usage in the courts
of the State from which they are taken." And it is contended
that the New York courts did not give to the statutes and
jurisprudence of Virginia, and to the jhdicial proceedings in
Virginia, the faith, credit and effect that they had by law and
usage at home. As to judicial proceedings, the action of the
Virginia courts was in no manner questioned by the decision
under consideration. There was no judgment against the
defendants in personam in Virginia, and their liability as
stockholders was not determined by the decrees which had
passed there against the company. Nor were the validity
and e4ffect of the statutes of Virginia denied, although, so far
as relied on, their proper construction and operation were
considered by the Court of Appeals.
Our attention has been called to no case in which it has
been held by the highest tribunal of Virginia that the statutes
referred to, (Code Va. 1860, c. 56, c. 57; Code 1873, c. 57,)

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

were intended to be'conclusive of, the liability of a party, who
had' 1iever subscribed for stock or beer atransferee thereof in
fact, because of the presence of- his .name upon the books of

the c6mpany without his- onsefit or'assent thereto.
In anderwerkn v. Glenn, 85 Virginia, 14, the decision was,
as stated by the Court of Appeals, that the appearance of the
party, sought to be charged, on the company's books as a
stockholder, wasprimafacieevidence of. his being- such, and
this was conceded by the New York court. It is said that,
that was a mere common law legal presumption, and had
nothing to do- 'with the- statutory -rights and -obligations :of
actual- dealers, in the stock- whose name appeared upon the
books as holders of the-stock vith their knowledge and without dissent on their pbrt, so far as the company and its cred,
itors were -concerned';"' and that the New York court "went
off ripdn the commdn .law rule of evidence as to the appearanc6 of -stock upon the, stock books, in respect of strangers,
and utterly ignored and rejected the constitutional credit and
effect due to hc said statutes of Virginia in respect of persons
actually 'dealing'.in such. stock, and whose names appeared
upon the books of' the company .as holders and owners of
stock in the ordinary and regular' course of its business .as
conducted tnder those statutes.' , -But this involves in large
pkrt a consideration of 'the case upon the merit, -and begs the
question -whether uponthe facts,these' defendants occupied the
position plaintiff ascribes to them.
•"If we were to assume jurisdiction ofthis case, it is evident
that the question submitted would be, not whether the decision
of' the New York court was against a right specially set up
and claimed under the Constitution of the United States, or
necessarily arising, but whether in that decision error intervened in the construction of the' statutes of Virginia. If
every time the courts of a -State put a conitruction upon the
statutes of another State, 'this court may be required to
determine whether that construction was or was 'not correct,
upon the'ground that if it were concluded that the construction was incorrect, it would follow that the state- courts had
refused to 'give full faith and credit to the statutes involved,

GLFN

v. GARTH.'

Opinion of the Court.

our jurisdiction would be enlarged in a manner never heretofore believed to have been contemplated.
The distinction between the construction of a statute and
the validity of a statute has frequently been adverted to by
this court. Baltimore & Potomac Railroad v. Hopkin8, 130
U. S. 210, and cases cited. In Grand Guf Railroad and

Banking Co. v. .Mkrshal, 12 How. 165, 167, 168, the case
was brought up from the Supreme Court of Louisiana, and
involved an assignment by a corporation of Mississippi under.
the laws of that State. Mr. Chief Justice Taney, delivering
the opinion of -the court, after stating that, "in order to give
this court jurisdiction the record must show that the point
was brought to the attention of the state court and decided
by it," for the obvious reason that "the party is authorized: to
bring his case before this court, because a state court has
refused to -him a right to which he is entitled under the
Constitution or laws of .the United States; but if he omits to
claim it in the state court there is no reason for permitting
him to harass the adverse party by a writ of error to this
court, when, for anything that appears in the record the
judgment of the state court might have been in his favor if its
attention had been drawn to the question," goes on to say
that "it appears that the decision turned upon the construction (not the validity) of the act of Mississippi. of 1840 ; and
upon a question of merely local law, concerning the right by
prescription claimed by the trustees. Nothing is said in relation to the constitutionality or validity of this act of Xississippi, and the opinion of the court clearly shows that no such
question was raised or decided." The writ of error was therefore dismhissed for want of jurisdiction. It does not seem to
have occurred to the Chief Justice that the -writ could be
maintained upon the ground of a denial of full faith and
credit to the Mississippi statute by the construction given by
the Louisiana court.
This record may be searched in vain for any proof that, as
matter of fact, the public acts of Virginia had, by .law or
usage, in Virginia, any other effect than was given them in
New York; 'nor can the contention of counsel, that the
VOL. cxLvri-24

