NTEW YORK &c. RAILROAD CO. v.- ESTILL.

591

Syllabus.

NEW YORK, LAKE ERIE & WESTERN RAILROAD
CbMPAIYY v. ESTILL, and v. LEOINARD.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR THE

WESTERN DISTRICT OF MISSOURI.
No. 127. Argued February 3,1893. -Decided

March 6, 1893.

Two suits at law against a railroad company, incorporated by New York,
were brought in the Circuit Court of Saline County, Missouri, by two
different plaintiffs, to recover damages for injury by the company, as a
common carrier, through negligence, to live cattle transported by it.
The Oamages occurred from a collision which took place in Ohio. The
cattle were being transported from Massachusetts to Missouri. The process of the court was served in St. Louis, Missouri, on a city passenger
agent of the defendant, in its business office there, who had charge of
it at the time, no chief officer of the defendant being found in St. Louis
at the time. By a petition in each suit by the defendant, which stated
that it appeared only for the purpose of making the application, the suit
was removed into the Circuit Court of the United States, because of
diverse citizenship. The defendant then moved m the latter court, in
each suit, to quash the process on the ground that it conferred no jurisdiction on the state court over the defendant. The motion was overruled. Both cases were then tried before the same jury, In one case
the verdict was for $8750 damages, and $2362.50 interest thereon at 6
per cent per annum from the time the suit was brought, and in the other
case for $44,000 damages, and $11,880 interest thereon. In the first case
judgment was entered for $11,112.50, with interest from the date of the
verdict, and in the second case for 850,000, and like interest, the plaintiffs
having voluntarily remitted $5880, because the petition claimed only
850,000 damages. There was only one bill of exceptions, covering all
matters in the two suits, and one writ of error, and one citation, and one
supersedeas bond, and one transcript of record. This court took cognizance of the two cases.
The state court acquired jurisdiction of the cases, under subdivision 4 of
§ 3489 of the Revised Statutes of Missouri of 1879, and § 3481 of the
same Revised Statutes.
The cases on that subject in the courts of Missouri reviewed.
Whether e defendant waived any objection to the service of the process
in the state court by appearing therein and filing a petition for the
removal of the cause into the Federal court, que re.
A large number of the cattle being cows with unborn calves, which were
'lost through their premature births, caused by the collision, the defendant was liable for deterioration in the value of such cows, caused by

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Counsel for -Defendants in Error.
such abortions, although it was not shown that the defendant knew that
the cows were with calf.
Detached sentences in a charge to a jury cannot be selected as grounds of
objection, but must be read in connection with the whole charge.
The cases having been tried in the court below on the theor 7 that the valuf
of the cattle at their place of destination in Missouri was the proper bat.s
for fixing the damages, the point that their value at the terminus in Ohio
of the defendant's road was the proper basis cannot be taken for the first
time in this court;
It was proper to show that some of the cattle died, or lost their calves,
after their final arrival in Missouri, from the effects of the collision.
The proper rule of damages was the difference between the market value
of the cattle, in the condition in which they would have arrived but for
the negligence of the defendant, and their market value in the condition
in which, by reason of such negligence, they did arrive.
It wat not material whether the plaintiffs intended to keep the cattle upon
their farms, for breeding purposes, or to sell them upon the market, the
depreciation in value of the cattle being the same in either case.
The court having instructed the jury that the burden was upon the plaintiffs
to show that the abortions were the direct result of the collision, and
the jury having found in favor of the plaintiffs on that question, and the
bill of exceptions containing all the evidence ur the case on either side,
and there being sufficient evidence to sustain the verdict, this court cannot review it on the weight of the evidence.
There is no ground for holding that the plaintiffs ought to have traced each
animal and to have shown the amount received for it when sold.
It was improper, under the statutes of, and decisions in Missouri, for the
jury to'allow interest on the damages from the time suit was brought;
and as the jury stated, in each verdict, the amount of interest allowed,
this court reduced the judgments by striking out the interest, and ordering judgments to be entered for the amounts of the damages, with
interest from the entry, and costs; the costs of this court to be paid
one-half by the plaintiff in error and the other half hy the defendants in
error.

THE case is stated in the opinion.
.Mr Garland Pollard for plaintiff
Werner was with him on the brief.)

lf

error.

(Hr Percy

X& W . . Williams and Mr ohAn Cosgrove for defendants
*error. (JAr 0 Guitar.atid Ar Samuel Boyd were with
them on the brief.)
11

NEW YORK &c. RAILROAD CO. v.-ESTILL.

593

Opinion of the Court.

MM. JUSTICE BLATcaFRD delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a single writ of error involving two suits, each of
which was brought in the Circuit Court of Saline County, in
the State of Missouri.
The first suit was commenced November 21, 1883, by
Wallace Estill, Hugh W Elliott, andWilliam R. Estill, against
the New York, Lake Erie and Western Railroad Company
The petition set forth that the pluintiffs were the owners of
70 head of polled Angus or Aberdeen cattle, imported from
Scotland, and of the value of $35,000, that the cattle were
intended for the Missouri market, and the defendant had full
knowleage of their value and the purposes for which they
were intended, that the defendant operated a railroad through
the States of New York and Ohio, and was a common carrier
of live stock and other freights over the line of its railroad in
those States, that on or about September 12, 1883, the plaintiffs delivered to the defendant, as such common carrier, to be
transported over its line of railway, the TO head of cattle,
and the defendant received them as such common carrier,
well knowing their character, and the importance of transporting them with care and reasonable dispatch, that on the
receipt of them, the defendant undertook and became bound
to *transport them safely over its railway, add to deliver them
at the terminus thereof within a reasonable time, that the
plaintiffs paid the usual freight and charges for transporting
the cattle, that the defendant failed to transport them with
reasonable dispatch and safety, but, about September 16, 1883,
at Nankin, Ohio, negligently ran its train, of cars, on which
the cattle were being transported, into another train of cars,
and by reason thereof, broke a large number of the cars in
which the cattle were, threw the cattle violently against the
cars and each other, and greatly jarred, bruised, maimed and
injured them, that 55 of the cattle were cows in calf at the
tune of the accident, and about 20 of them had since the
accident, and in consequence thereof, prematurely -lost their
calves, that the cattle were detained at the place of the
accident for about 36 hours after it occurred, without suitable
voL. cxLVI--38

OCTOBER TERM; 1892.
Opinion of the CoUrt.

food, water or attention, and in consequence were greatly
reduced in value, and damaged, that, in consequence of the
injuries received by the cattle, the plaintiffs had been put to
great trouble and expense in caring for them, and the value
of the cattle had been greatly reduced, and that, by reason
of the premises, the plaintiffs had sustained damages in $12,000,
for which sum and costs of suit they asked judgment.
The other suit was commenced November 27, 1883, by
Leverett Leonard, Charles E. Leonard, William H. Leonard
and Abiel Leonard, against the same defendant, for a like
cause of action. The petition contained substantially the
same averments as that in the Estill suit, except that it was
founded on damage to 306 head of imported polled Angus or
Aberdeen-and Galloway cattle, alleged to be of the value of
$200,000. It averred that the defendant negligently ran the
two trains, or sections of a train, upon which the cattle were
being carried, into and against each other, so that about 16 of
the cars, in which the cattle were at the time, were broken to
pieces and demolished, and '[ of the cattle were killed or so
badly injured that they were rendered worthless, and that
about 250 of the cattle were cows in calf, and about 60 of
them, since the accident and in consequence thereof, had prematurely lost their calves. Damages in the sum of $50,000 were
alleged, and judgment was asked for that sum and costs of suit.
In each of the two cases, a writ of attachment was issued
by the court'to the sheriff of Saline County, and to the sheriff
of the city of St. Louis, against the property of the defendant,
each of which attachments contained also a direction that the
shpriff summon the defendant to appear in the court, on a day
specified, to answer the petition. The sheriff of the city of
St. Louis made return on each. of the writs issued to him, that
he had executed it in the city of St. Louis, on January 7,
1884, by delivering a copy of the writ and petition to one
W. E. Conner, city passenger agent of the defendant, "Who
was in its business office, and had charge thereof, at the time
-of said service," and that "the president or any other chief
officer of said defendant could not be found in the city of
St. Louis at.the time of said service."

NEW YORK &c. RAILROAD CO. v. ESTILL.

505

'Opinion of the Court.

On the 11th of February, 1884, the defendant filed 'in the
state court, in each of the two cases, a petition for the removal thereof to the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Western .Division of the Western District of Missouri.
Each petition 'stated that the defendant appeared "only for
the -purpose of making this application," that it was a corporation of the State of New York, and that the.plaintiffs
were, at the commencement of the suit, and still are, citizens
of the state of Missouri. A proper bond was given in each
case, and the state court approved the bond, granted the
application, and made an order removing the cause.
A transcript of the record in each case was duly filed in the
Circuit Court of the United States, The defendant then made
a motion in that court, which was heard before Mr. Justice
Brewer, thien Circuit Judge, to quash the writ of summons
issued to -the sheriff of the city of St, Louis, and the return of
that officer thereon, (which. motion stated that the defendant
appeared specially and only for the purpose of making it,)
on the ground that the writ and return were void and conferred no jurisdiction over the defendant, because (1) being a.
foreign corporation, operating a railroad in New York and
Ohio, which did not terminate opposite any point in Missouri,
it could not be brought into the courts of Missouri by writ
of summons, (2) the cause of action sued on did not accrue'in
Saline County, where the suit was brought, and the business
office of the defendant at the time of the alleged service was
not in that county, but in the city of St. Louis, and (3) the
record failed to show that at the time of the service, or at
any time, the defendant was engaged in business in Missouri.
The Circuit Court overruled the motion, the defendant excepted to its order and decision, and the court signed and
sealed a bill of exceptions setting forth those facts.
The defendant then filed an answer in each case, denying
all the allegations of the petition. A stipulation was then
made and filed, entitled in both suits, that they might be transferred for tr~al to the Eistern Division of the Western District
of Missouri, and placed on the docket for trial at the next
term of the court for that Division, that no question should
-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

be raised as to the jurisdiction of the court to which the cases
were to be tradsferred, at Jefferson City, Missouri, which
could not be raised to the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of
the 'United States for the Western Division of the Western
District, and that no question as to the jurisdiction of the
latter court should be waived.
Both cases were duly tried at Jefferson City in April, 1888,
before Judge Thayer, the District Judge for-the Eastern District of Missouri, and the same jury In the Estill case, The
jury found the issues for the plaintiffs, and assessed their damages at $8750, and allowed interest in the sum of $2362.50,
making the total damages assessed $11,112.50. In the Leonard
case, the jury found the issues for the plaintiffs, and assessed'
their damages at $44,000, and allowed interest in the sum of
$11,880, making the total damages assessed $55,880.
The defendant filed a motion for a new trial, entitled in
both cases, setting forth as the grounds thereof (1) that the
court gave improper instructions to the jury, (2) that it re-fused proper instructions asked by the defendant, (3) that it
admitted improper and incompetent evidence, (4) that it
made improper rulings on the evidence offered by the plaintiffs, (5) that it excluded proper and competent evidence offered
by the defendant; (6) that the verdict was against the law and
evidence, (7) that the damages were excessve, and (8) that
the court erred in overruling the defendant's motion to quash
the service of the summons in the cases. The motion for a
new trial was heard before Judge Thayer, Judge Philips sitting with him, and on the 19th of November, 1888, each of
the judges filed an opinion denying the motion. 41 Fed. Rep.
849, 859. On the 20th of November, 1888, an order was
entered in the Estill case, overruling the motion for a new
trial, and entering judgment in favor of the plaintiffs .for
$11,112.50, with interest at the rate of 6 per cent per annum
from the date of the verdict, May 1, 1888, on the $11,112.50,
until the same should be paid, and for costs. On the same
day, an order was entered in the Leonard suit, stating that
the plaintiffs had voluntarily remitted from the amount of
their verdict $5880, so as to reduce the verdict to $50,000,

NEW YORK &c. RAILROAD CO. v. ESTILL.

597

Opimodi of the Court.

(the amount claimed in the petition,) overruling the motion
for a new trial, and entering a judgment in favor of the plaintiffs for $50,000, being the damages assessed by the jury less
the amount so remitted, and awarding to the plaintiffs interest
at 6 per cent per annum fromn the date of the verdict, May 1,
1888, on the $50,000 until the same should be paid, and for
costs and charges.
It was then stipulated between'the parties, by a stipulation
entitled in both suits and dated November 20, 1888, that one
bill of exceptions, covering all matters that arose on the trial
of the two causes, might answer for both, that the bill of
exceptions, signed by Judges Thayer and Philips, might be
incorporated in the record and used in this court as the bill of
exceptions in either or both of the cases, without objections
from either party, that one writ of error and one citation
should be sufficient, and that one supersedeas bond might be
given to cover both cases. There is one bond, reciting both
judgments and referring to a single writ of error to reverse
both judgments, and a single citation. There is only one citation, addressed to- the plaintiffs in the two judgments, but
referring to "the judgment." There is only one writ of error,
but it refers to the two suits by-name. The certificate of the
clerk of the court below refers to the transcript as a transcript
of the record and proceedings in both of the cases.
The assignment of errors is entitled in both cases, and alleges as error (1) that the Circuit Court erred in overruling
the motion of the defendant to set aside the return of the
sheriff on the original writs issued in the causes and to quash
those writs, (2) that it erred in admitting improper and incompetent evidence offered by the plaintiffs, (3) that it erred
in excluding proper and competent evidence offered by the
defendant, (4) that the verdict was unsustained by the evidence, (5) that the court erred in charging the jury, (6) that
it erred in refusing to charge the jury as requested by the
defendant, and (7) that it erred in rendering judgments upon
the verdicts in favor of the plaintiffs.
The Circuit Court (Judge Thayer) charged the jury as is set
forth in the margin, the pQrtmons of the charge enclosed in

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

brackets, and numbered from 1 to 10, being the parts to which
separately the defendant duly excepted.'
in these cases there is no controversy over the fact that the respective
plaintiffs delivered to the defendant certain cattle to be by it transported
over its railroad and delivered at the terminus of its line to plaintiffs or to
some connecting carrier. Estill and Elliott appear to have delivered to-the
defendant 67 head of cattle, and Leonard Bros. appear to have delivered
about 306 head of cattle.
[1. Having received the cattle for the purpose of transportation, the
defendant was bound to deliver the respective herds of cattle at the termnus of its line in as good condition as it received the same.] The complaint
Made is that defendant did not deliver the property in question at the terminus of its line in the condition that it received the same, and damages are
claimed by the respective plaintiffs on. that account.
It is practically admitted (and you may take it as a conceded fact) that
while these two herds of cattle were in defendant's custody and in transit
to their destination a collision occurred at Nankin, Ohio, between two
freight trains of the defendant in which the cattle were being transported.
Now, the main and about the only question you will have to consider is the
nature and extent of the injuries (if any) that were sustained by the cattle
immediately in consequence of the collision. When you have settled those
questions you will have practically decided the case, and it is to be hoped
that you will give these questions a careful and fair consideration and decide
the same according to the evidence and rules of law, which I will now state
for your guidance.
The law is that a common carrier like the defbndant must pay the market
value at the point of destination of all property entrusted to it for trausportation which through its fault is lost or destroyed and is not delivered.
[2. The law also is that if a carrier receives property for transportation
and delivers it at the end of its route, but, through its fault, it is damaged
and it fails to deliver it in the same condition as whben received, it must pay
the difference between the value of the property in its damaged condition at
the point of destination and what the value of the property would have been
t that place if delivered in the same condition a&.when it was received for
tcauportation. These are the general rules of law wilich must be applied
in the assessment of the damages in the two cases now on trial]
[3. The testimony tends to show that seven (7) head of Leonard Bros.
cattle (5 heifero and 2 bulls) were left at Nankin, Ohio, where -the collision
occurred, (either killed or very badly hurt,) and were never delivered at
the point of destination or at the end of defendant's line. If you find such
to be the fact you will allow Leonard Bros. for those seven (7) head their
market value as shown by the evidence at the point of destination in Saline
County at the time they should have arrived.]
The other damages claimed by Leonard Bros. may be conveniently divided
into three classes. [4. In the first place, it is contended by Leonard Bros.

NEW YORK &c. RIMLROAD CO. v. ESTILL.

599

Opinion of the Court.

The defendant asked the court to instruct the ,jury as follows " (1) The jury are instructed that plaintiffs are only
that some of the cattle in question died after they reached the point of destination, of injuries received in the collision atNankin, Ohio. Abiel Leonard
claims that 3 Galloway bulls died from such cause on his place. William
H. Leonard claims that 3 heifers died from such cause on his farm, and
Leverett Leonard says that 7 heifers died on his place after their arrival.
Now, if the evidence in the case satisfies you that any of the cattle did die,
as stated by these witnesses, and that their death was the direct result of
injuries sustained by the collision, then you will allow Leonard Bros. the
market value in Saline County, as shown by the testimony, of the cattle
that so died.]
[5. In the second place, it is claimed by Leonard Bros. that some- of-the
other cattle received injuries of various kinds by the collision, which did
not terminate fatally, Vut, nevertheless, lessened the market value of the
cattle so injured. The class of injuries to which I now refer are strains,
bruises, etc., which some of the cattle are said to have received. The plaintiffs themselves and Dr. Glover and Judge Sparks have spoken of about, 48
head altogether that are said to have received such injuries, including no
doubt, the 13 head that are said to have died. Dr. Glover and Judge Sparks
say that they found 25 or 30 head of injured cows and heifers and 5 or 6
injured bulls. The plaintiffs themselves make the number of injured bulls
somewhat greater. 'Abiel Leonard says he had 5 injured bulls ,a his portion
of the herd. W H. Leonard says he bad 5 injured bulls in his herd. Leverett
Leonard says that he had two bulls broken down in the back and loins and 8
others that were unserviceable for a year or more. You will recall their
evidence on this branch of the case. I call your attention to this testimony
for the purpose of saying that you should weigh it carefully and determine
how many cattle, if any, received injuries by the collision of the -character
last described, and to what extent, if any, such injuries lessened their market
value.
If you are satisfied by the evidence that any of the cattle received injuries such as strains, bruises, etc., which rendered them less valuable in the
market at the point of destination than they would have been but for sch
injuries, then you may allow Leonard Bros. on that account such reasQnable sum as will in:your judgment, under all the evidence, make good sui.hi
depreciation in value.]
[6. In the third place, it is claimed that certain cows and heifers that were
with calf at the time of the collision, in consequence of the collision lost
their calves, and damages are claimed on that account. There Is evidence
tending to show that about 94 or 95 head of the Leonard Bros. cows lost
their calves after the collision. Abiel Leonard says that 25 head lost their
calves on his place; William H. Leonard says that 27 head lost their calves
on his place ,- and Leverett Leonard says that 43 head lost their calves on
his farm. With reference to this matter I will say that if Leonard Bros.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

entitled to recover in this case such damages as they have
shown by the preponderance of the. evidence were the natural
have satisfied you by the evidence that any cows or heifers that were with
calf when the collision occurred, as the direct result of that collision, lost
their calves, and that such premature casting of their calves made the
animals less valuable in the market than they would have been but for such
loss, then they are entitled to recover the amount of the depreciation in
value of any of the animals that so lost their calves.] In this connection
I instruct you, however, that the burden is on them to show not only that
the cattle sustained injuries, but to furnish the evidence as to the result of
such injuries, and evidence that will enable you to assess the damages with
reasonable accuracy. Inasmuch as the cattle came into their possession
shortly after the collision, and they thereafter had the custody of the cattle,
the rule should be strictly enforced requiring them to show by satisfactory
evidence the nature of the injuries received, the result of the injuries, and
to what extent the market value was thereby impaired.
What I have said about the assessment of .damages in the case of Leonard Bros. applies equally well in the case of Estill and Elliott. This difference is to be noted in the two cases, however. None of the Estill anct
Elliott cattle appear to have been killed in the collision or to have subsequently died from injuries claimed to have -been received in the collision.
You will have no claim of that kind.to consider in the Estill and Elliott case.
In this case there is evidence tending to show specific injuries sustained by
three bulls, one of which was injured in the testicles and two in the back or
loins. WVN. Marshall and Benjamin E. Nance, who claim to have examined
the Estill and Elliott cattle on their arrival, describe injuries to three bulls
said to have been hurt in the back, loins, or testicles. They also say generally that from 10 to 15 cows and heifers were in very bad condition, and
that one cow had lost an eye. The plaintiffs themselves have given some testimony as to the condition of their herd on arrival at Estill's. I call your
attention to their testimony and ask you to consider it carefully.
[7. In the Estill and Elliott case there is also evidence tending to show
that 5 of Estill and Elliott's cows aborted their calves before they reached
Estill's; that 4 or 5 aborted their calves prior to October 26, 1883, when
a portion of the herd was taken to Kansas City, and two afterwards,
making 11 or 12 in all. With reference to these two kinds or species of
injuries claimed to have been sustained by the Estill and Elliott cattle, I
instruct you, as before, that if the evidence shows to your satisfaction that
any of the animals sustained such injuries as theimmediate result of the
collision, and that the injuries so sustained lessened the market value of the
stock so injured at the point of destination, then you will be authorized to
allow Estill and Elliott such reasonable sum as in your opinion, under the
evidence, will make good the depreciation in the value of any of the animals
that you find to bave been injured either by strains, bruises, etc., or by
losing their calves.]

INEW YORK &c. RAILROAD CO. v. ESTILL.

601

Opinion of the Court..

and proximate consequence of the acts complained of in the
petition, and that they are not entitled to 'recover any damages
Now, gentlemen, on the other side of this case you have testimony of
Mr. Baldwin, M. McCullough, and Mr. Geagan, who claim to have examined
the stock of Estill and Elliott and Leonard Brothers on the 27th and 28th
days of September, 1883, (11 and 12 days after the collision,) with a view of
ascertaining the injuries the stock had received. I will direct your attention to the salient points of their testimony • Mr. Baldwin says that among
the Estil and Elliott cattle he found, in a lot of 49 tows and calves, one or
two a little lame. In another lot, consisting of two bulls and one heifer,
he found the heifer had a sore foot and the bulls were a little stiff, and that
one other heifer was pointed out as having lbst her calf. McCullough's
testimony with reference to the same herd is to the effect that he found one
bull a little stiff, one (1) cow very stiff, two other bulls (one in a stable and
one in a pasture) both a little stiff, and one heifer with a sore foot.
In relation to the Leonard cattle, Mr. Baldwin says he found 3 stiff or
lame heifers in a herd of 35 animals; one cow a little stiff in a herd of 29
cows, and three that were said to have lost their calves; one heifer also
that was said to have lost her calf; one lame cow in a herd of 30 animals;
one other cow in a herd of 32 animals that was said to have lost her calf,
one bull in a herd of 17, lame in the fore leg; two other bulls in a herd of
(9) animals, slightly injured, one lame or stiff and one with slight flesh
wound, one other bull with hoofs swollen and wound in left hind leg.
Mr. McCullough's testimony as to the same herd (that is, with reference to
the Leonard cattle) is to the following effect, namely, that he found 3 footsore heifers (one very sore) in a herd of 35 animals; 3 heifers said to have
lost their calves in a herd of 29 head; 2 lame bulls in a herd of 5 animals,
one footsore, and one said to be not fit to serve cows; 2 lame cows in a
herd of 26 cows and calves; 1 bull noticeably lame in a herd of 17 bulls;
I. bull with a slight wound In his thigh; and one other with a slight flesh
wound.
All three of these witnesses say that the injuries to the two herds were
not greater or different than might be- expected to result from an ordinary
long railroad journey, and that none of the injuries, in their judgment,
were serious or liable to produce permanent disability.
From a summary of 'the evidence, as I have noted it, gentlemen, the testimony for the plaintiffs tends to show that about 48 animals in-Leonart
Bros.' herd, (18 bulls and about 30 cows) after their arrival in Saline
County, showed visible evidence of having been injured in the collision,
whilst according to the evidence for defendant there were only 10 animals
(5 bulls and 5 cows and heifers) which bore any visible marks of having
been hurt. In the Estill and Elliott case it appears from the plaintifs'
testimony that 3 bulls a6id from 10 to 15 cows sustained injuries, the injuries to the bulls being of a serious character, whilst according to-the
testimony of defeadant's witnesses only 4 animals (3 bulls and 1 cow) bore

OCTOBER TERN, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

wnch could have been avoided or prevented by the plaintiffs
by the exercise on their part of reasonable and proper care and
any evidences of injuries. In the foregoing summary you will understand
that I do not include cows or heifers that are said to have lost their calves.
I refer only to animals that are said to have shown outward 'signs of injury.
[S. In the light o the testimony, both for the plaintiffs and uefendint, to
which I have alluded, and in the light of any other testimony in the case
which you may recall, and bearing in mind that the burden of proof is on
the plaintiffs to show that the cattle in question received injuries and the
extent and result of such injuries, you will have to determine the following
important questions of fact, namely 1st. How many cattle in each herd
were injured in any manner, in consequence of the collision, to such extent
as to lessen their market value at-the point of destination ? 2d. How many
of Leonard Bros. cattle were killed or badly injured and left at Nankin,
Ohio, in consequence of the collision, and what would have been the value
of such cattle in Saline County, at the time they should have arrived, if
they-had been delivered in the condition in which the defendant received
them ? 3d. How many of Leonard Bros. cattle (if any) died of injuries
received by the collision after they had been delivered to Leonard Bros.,
and what was the reasonable market value in Saline County of those cattle
if they had arrived, uninjured ? 4th: How many animals in each herd lost
their-calves as the direct result of the -collision, and to what extent did
such loss of their calves lessen their.market value at the point of desti-,
nation ? 5th. What number of cattle in each herd, besides those that are
said to have died or lost calves, were otherwise injured by the collision, by
strains, bruises, etc., so as to materially lessen their market value, andwhat
was the amount of such depreciation in value ?] To arrive at a just and
intelligent verdict in these cases you -will have to,determine from the testimony each of the foregoing questions.
There are one or two other matters to which I will refer briefly. There
is testimony in the case tending to show that in the last days of August,
1883, some of Leonard Bros. cattle (and. possibly some few of Estill and
Elliott's cattle) found some Paris green and ate it at Concord, Mass. The
proof tends to show that 5 head of Leonard Bros. cattle died.of poison at
Concord, and that about 30 other animals -were made sick by it and were
treated: You will understand, of course, that if any, of Leonard Bros.
cattle that are said to have died after they reached Saline County, or if any
of the cows in either herd that -are said to have lost their calves, died or
lost calves in consequence of eating Paris greeii; then the railroad company
is not responsible for the loss so occasioned.
There is' also some testimony tending to show that: when one or more
cows in a herd give birth to calves prematurely, or abort, as the saying is,
other cows in the same herd, unless separated from the cows that :have
aborted, are liable to cast their calves through sympathy or contagion,
although they have themselves received no physical injury. This is a mat-

NEW YORK &c. RAILROAD CO. v. ESTILL.

603

Opinion of the Court.

prudence. (2) The jury are further instructed that before
they can allow the plaintiffs damages on account of abortions,
as claimed in the petition, they must be satisfied, by a preponderance of the evidence that the abortions, if any, were caused
ter that requires your attention. If it be true and you so find that cows
will abort through sympathy or by contagion, then it was the plaintiffs'
duty, if they could have done so, to have separated cows that had aborted
from other pregnant cows, and to have done so with reasonable and ordinary diligence; and if plaintiffs failed to exercise reasonable and ordinary
diligence and caution n that regard, and any cows lost their calves in consequence of such negligence, then the 'defeidant is not liable for such
losses, as they were not the immediate and direct result of the collision,
but the result of plaintiffs' neglect.
I will also say that defendant cannotbe held liable for losses occasioned
by premature birth of calves, .or by the death of stock, Jf such births or
deaths were the result of overfeeding or the result of change of climate
or fatigue or heat or of a long voyage on the ocean or' by rail, or of all
such causes combined. In other words, gentlemen, the defendant ,is .only
liable for such premature births and deaths as are shown by the testimony
to have been directly occasioned by injuries sustained in the collision.
[9. The question as to what causes led some, of the animals in 'the two
herds to lose their calves or to die after arrival is a fquestion which you
'may find some difficulty in solving, as in the, nature of thinks these are
questions that do not admit of solution by positive or direct proof. I will
only say that you must apply your best judgment and your. experience to
the solution of these questions, giving to all the testimony, including that
of the experts, suchg weight as you thA it fairly .deserves.] If, upon a
fair consideration of the subject, you deem the evidence insufficient to
establish what'was the cause of the abortions, then it will be your duty to
.
disallow the plaintiffs' claims for damages on that account If the evidence
establishes to your satisfaction that spme of the abortions ,were the direct
result of the collision, but leaves you undecided as to the cause of other
abortions, then you should allow damages for such as you are satisfied
were the result of the collision and disallow the plaintiffs' claims as to the
residue.
[10. When you have assessed the damages in each case you may conipute interest'on the damages in each case. at six (6) per cent per annun,
from the tie
suit was brought -on November 21st, 1883, in the Estill'
case and November 27, 1883, in the Leonard case-to this date. I will
further, direct you to -state in your verdict the amount of interest which
you award in each case.]
In condpusion, I ask you to give the cases a careful and inbiassed consideration. Consider the evidence in behalf of both parties in the same spirit
of fairness that you would have it considered if you were yourselves personally interested as plaintiffs or defendants in the result of the suit.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opunon of the Court.

directly by the alleged collision. (3) If the jury are satisfied
by a preponderance of the evidence that the cows or heifers
mentioned in the petition were with calf at the time of the
collision alleged in the petition, and that some of them aborted
their calves in consequence of injuries received in said collision,
and that ordinary care and prudence required that such aborting cow or cows should be separated from the other pregnant cows of plaintiffs, and that this was not done, but such
aborted cow or cows was or were allowed to be and remain
with the other pregnant cows, by reason of which such other
pregnant cows or some of them. aborted their calves by contagion or sympathy, they should not allow- damages for or on
account of abortions thus caused bv contagion or sympathy
(4) If the jury find that the plaintiffs' cows aborted their
calves after the alleged collision, and that some of said abortions were caused by said collision, and that some were the
result of poison, fatigue, heat, exhaustion, or any cause other
than the collision, and the jury are unable to determine from
the evidence which cows and how many aborted in consequence
of the collision and which from other causes, they should
not allow damages on account of abortion from any cause.
(5) The court instructs the jury that the burden is not upon
the defendants to account for the abortions amongst cows and
heifers of plaintiffs, if there were such abortions, but upon the
plaintiffs to prove and establish by a preponderance of the evidence that such abortions were caused by the collision alleged
in the petition, and if upon all the evidence the jury are not
convinced that such abortions were caused by the injury, they
should not allow damages for such abortions, although they
may not be able to determine from the evidence what the real
cause of.such abortions was. (6) The court instructs the jury
that unloss the defendant knew that some of the cattle of the
plaintiffs were cows or heifers in calf plaintiffs are not entitled
to recover for abortions, though they may have been caused by
the wreck, as in that event damages on account of abortion
could not have been in the contemplation of the defendant at
the time the cattle were received."
The .bill of exceptions states that the court refused to give

NEW YORK &c. RAILROAD CO. v. ESTILL.

605

Opinion of the Court.

to the jury instruction (6), and that the defendant excepted to
the action of the court in refusing that instruction. It is to
be inferred that the court gave to the jury the other 5 instructions asked for.
The case made by the evidence is in substance as follows-'
The plaintiffs bought in Scotland a large number of high-bred
cattle and imported them to this country for sale for breeding
purposes. Some were bulls, but the majority were heifers
which were in calf at the time of the collision. The cattle
were shipped from Liverpool to Boston, the ocean trip occupying twelve days. They reached Boston in good condition, and were kept for a while at Waltham, and then
removed to Concord. While at Concord some of the Leonard
cattle ate some Paris green, and five of them died from its
effects. About thirty others were affected more or less by
the poison, but after two days they were turned out with the
rest of the cattle as having fully recovered. The Estill cattle
did not have access to the poison, and were in a separate lot
from the Leonard cattle which did. The cattle remained in
Concord two or three weeks after the Paris green was eaten,
and were then shipped to Missouri in good order and condition. On the journey, in Ohio, during the transportation
over the railroad of the defendant, the train carrying the
cattle was divided and run in two sections. On reaching
:Nankin, Ohio, the first section was put on one side, on a
switch, and stopped, and the second section ran into it. Several of the cars were almost demolished by the collision, some
were thrown from the track, and nine or ten of them were
so badly damaged that the cattle in them had to be transferred to other cars. By the collision, some of the cattle
were knocked down, the ropes by which some of them were
tied were broken, a-d some were lying down with others
standing upon them when they were found after the collision.
Some were knocked against others and against the cars, and
the shock of the collision was very great. The cattle were
detained about thirty hours without suitable food or water.
The collision occurred on a Sunday, between four and five
o'clock1 A.M., and the train did not start west again until the

OCTOBER TER,

1892.

Opinion of the Court.

next day The cattle were greatly bruised and injured, and
the day after the collision the heifers began to abort or prematurely cast their calves. Five of them lost their calves, while
on tuie cars, in the next two or three days, and from day to
day, during the next several weeks, abortions occurred among
them. The number of abortions and the character of other
injuries are summarized by the court in its charge to the jury.
The videncefor the plaintiffs further showed that an ordinary railroad journey would not have caused the abortions,
and that the aborting cattle were fed in the same way as those
which did- not abort. The plaintiffs also introduced some
expert testimonyto show. that the abortions were the result of
the coliision. The testimony for the plaintiffs further showed
that a cow which had once lost. her calf prematurely was an.
uncertain breeder, and could not be sold in the market for a
breeder, but was worth only what she would bring as beef,
that the heifers were worth, in calf, $400 or $500 in the Missouri market, in the fall of 1883, but that a heifer which had
prematurely lost her calf would not be worth more than $25
or $35, the price for beef. The evidence also stated in detail
the injuries to others of the cattle and the nature thereof.
The defendant gave evidence tending to show that where
one cow in a herd aborted, *others would do likewise through
sympathy or contagion, and that the aborted cow ought to
be separated *from the herd. This fact of abortion, through
sympathy or contagion, was controverted by other -witnesses.
The plaintiffs showed that the cattle were cared for in the
best manner possible. The defendant offered testimony as to
the cattle that were injured and the extent of their injuries,
and also examined some experts who stated that the abortions
might not have been caused by the wreck.
(1) The first point urged for a reversal of the judgments is
that the Circuit Court erred in overruling the defendaiit's motion to quash the writs issued by the state court to the sheriff
of the city of St. Louis, and the returns of that sheriff thereon.
It is contended that the fact that the defendant, at the time
of the alleged services, had a business office in St. Louis, at
which office the writs were served on its city passenger agent,

NEW YORK &c. RAIL
LOAD CO. v. ESTILL.

607

Opimon of the Court.

who had charge of such-office at the time of the service, prevented it from being a non-resident of Missouri, within the
-meaning of the statutes of that State regulating the subject of
jurisdiction and the service of process.
Writs of attachment were sued out in the suits, but no property was levied on, and hence the suits stand as if they had
been instituted by summons alone. It has been held by the
courts of Missourithat a non-resident corporation, which has
a business office and an agent in the State, is amenable to the
jurisdiction of its courts. ]ifXe.ichol v U j&.
8Mercantile Reporting Agency, 74, Missouri, 457. In that case, it was held
that service of a summons upon a non-resident corporation,
having an office or doing business in Missouri, in the manner
provided by the fourth subdivision of § 3489, Revised Statutes
of 1879, has the effect of personal service, and gives the court
jurisdiction to enter a general judgment, and that the legislature had power to pass an act authorizing the service of
legal process upon any non-resident corporation having an
office or doing business within the State, by leaving the same
with an agent of the corporation within the State, and authorlzing the rendition of a general judgment upon such service.
Said § 3489 provides that a summons shall be executed,
except as otherwise provided by law, in any one of six different methods specified in the section, the -fourth of which reads
as follows: "Or, fourth, where defendant is a corporation or
joint stock company, organized under the laws of any other
State or country, and having an office or doing business in this
State, by delivering a copy of the writ and petition to any
officer or agent of such corporation or company, in charge of
any office or place of business, or if it have no office or place
of business, then to any officer, agent or employe in any
county where such service may be obtained."
In the case cited, the court held that the effect of the enactment, in 1879, of. the fourth subdivision of § 3489, was to make
all foreign corporations having an office and doing business in
Missouri, or an agent or employe there, suable in precisely the
same manner as any other defendant, by the delivery of a
copy of the writ and petition, and that it must be presumed

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

that the legislature intended that the ordinary consequences
should attend such service. See, also, -Lafayette Ins. Co. v.
French, 18 How 404:, Riailroad Co. v -Harris,12 Wall. 65,
Southern Pacifc Co. v. -Denton,146 U. S. 202, 207, Gibbs v.

Queen Ins. Co., 63 N. Y 114, 2 Morawetz on Corporations,
§ 977. The principle applicable under such cndcumstances is
,that, if the corporation does business in the State, it will be
presumed to have assented to the statute and will be bound
acbordingly
It is contended for the defendant, however, that, as its office
was in St. Louis, it was a resident of that city, and that,
under the statute of Missouri fixing the place of bringing suits,
it could be sued only in a court of that city But we are of
the -opinion that, under the statutes of Missouri, the Circuit
Court of Saline County had jurisdiction of the present suits,
although the agent and business office of the defendant were
in St. Louis and not in Saline County, that the service in St.
Louis of the summons issued by the Circuit Court of Saline
County was valid, and that the defendant was within the
provisions of the Missouri statute which made non-residents
suable in any county of the State.
It is provided by § 3481 of the Revised Statutes of Missouri
of 1879, that suits instituted by summons shall, except as
otherwise provided by law, be brought in five specified ways,
the fourth of which is that "when all the defendants are nonresidents of the State, suits may be brought in any county"
Farnworthv Railroad Co., 29 'Missouri, 75, Stone v Travellers' ns. Co., 78 Missouri, 655, -Swallow v. Duncan, 18 Mo.
App. 622, U S. .futual Acczdent Ins. Co. v Reisznger, 43
Mo..App. 571. The defendant, by establishing its business
office in Missouri, subjected itself to suit in such of the courts
of the State as had jurisdiction conferred upon them, and was
suable in any county inlh<'State.
If, under.§ 3481, suit may be brought against non-residents
in any county, regardless of the county in which the defendants may be found, it follows necessarily that the court in
-whichthe suit is brought may send its summons to the county
in which service can be obtained upon such non-residents.

NEW YORK &c. RAILROAD CO. v. ESTILL.

609

Opinion of the Court.

Otherwise, if the summons could be issued only to the county
wherein the court is held, suit could only be brought in the
county where the defendant could be found, which was the
provision of section 5 of Article 1 of the Revised Statutes of
1845, page 805, which provision was abrogated by § 1 of Article 4: of the Session Acts of 1849, page 76, providing that if
all the defendants were non-residents of Missouri, and an
action would lie against them, it might be brought i any
county, which latter provision was continued in § 3481 of the
Revised Statutes of 1879. This construction has been held by
the courts of Missouri. Stone v Travellers' Ins. Co., 78 Missouri, 655, U 8. .futual Accdent Ins. Co. v. Rezsznger, 43
Mo. App. 571. The city of St. Louis is placed by the statutes
of Missouri on the same footing as a county
It is further contended by the defendant that it was a
resident of the city of St. Louis within the meaning of § 3481.
But the Supreme Court of Missouri has held that a foreign
corporation, doing business in the State, is a non-resident, and,
under § 3481, is suable in any county Stone v Travelers' Ins.
Co., 78 Missouri, 665, 668. It is suggested that, in that instance, the defendant was a foreign insurance corporation,
and its case was provided for by § 6013, which requires
foreign insurance companies, doing business in Missouri, to
appoint an agent upon whom service can be made in suits
against the companies, and expressly authorizes, such suits to
be brought in any county, and that what was said in that
case about § 3181 was merely obiter.di um. But § 6013
does not provide as to where suits may be brought against
foreign insurance companies. It merely requires them to
appoint an agent upon whom ,service may be made, and
leaves the place of instituting suits to be determined by the
general law, and regulates only the manner of service.
Hence, it was necessary, in the case of Stone v Travellers' Ins.
Co., for the court to determine, as it did, whether a foreign
corporation, doing business in Missouri, was to be sued as a resident or as a non-resident, under § 3481, and it was held that
such a corporation was a non-resident, within the meaning of
§ 3481. Section 6013 in no manner interferes with § 3481.
VOL. cxLvii-39

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

It is quite apparent from the case of U S. .Mutual Accident
Ins. Co. v Rc-sw2ger; 43 Mo. App. 571, that the case of Stone
v Travellers' Ins. Co. was regarded as holding that, as the
defendant in that case was a non-resident, suit might have
been brought against it in any county
In Farnsworth v, Railroad Co., 29 Missouri, 75, and in
\Swallow v Duncan, 18 Mo. App. 622; foreign corporations
were treated as within the statutory provisions relating to
non-residents. This court will adopt the construction placed
upon the statutes of Missouri by the courts of that State.
The ruling of the Supreme Court of Missouri, that corporations created by other States do not become residents of
Missouri by engaging in business in that State, agrees with
the rulings of the Federal courts. Er parte Schollenberger,
96 U. S. 369, Xtyers v Afurray, 43 Fed. IRep. 695.
In the cases of -Farnsworthv. Railroad Co., 29 Missouri,
75, Robb v -Chwago & Alton Railroad, 47 Missouri, 540, and
.7iddougk v St. Jos. d Denver Railroad,51 Missouri, 520,
there is nothing which militates against the foregoing views,
or which holds that corporations created by other States
become residents of Missouri by engaging in business in
Missouri.
Not- only did Mr. Justice Brewer overrule the motion to
quash the writ -of summons and the return of service by the
sheriff, but Judge Philips, in his opinion on the motion for a
new trial, 41 Fed. Rep. 853, held that a foreign corporation,
having an office in Missouri, was to be treated, under the
statute, as a .ndn-resident defendant, that the provision of
subdivision 4 of § 3481 applied ,.and that, therefore, the suit
could be brought in any county.. He said that the provisions
of the statute ilivoked by the defendant must refer, and must
be limited, to domestic corporations;, and he quoted a remark
made by the oourt in Stone v Travellers' Ins. Co., 78 Missouri,
655, 658, that "the defendant, being a non-resident of the
State, was subject to suit in any county in this State, Rev.
Stats. § 3481, and could be- personally served in the manner pointed out by the section under consideration," that is,

§ 6013.

NEW YORK &c. RAILROAD CO.

. ESTILL.

611

Opinion of the, Court.

Judge Philips remarked also that there could be no question but that, if the suit had remained in the state.court, and
the defendant, after moving to suppress the sheriff's return,
had pleaded and gone to trial on the merits,, the defective
service would have been waived,'citing-ronsk7 v. Railway Co.,
77 Missouri, 362, and Seoville v Glasner,79 Missouri, 454, 455,
and adding that, where a-party had thus removed the cause
into the Federal court, tried it on its merits, had one new
trial, and had again tried it on the merits, in its own.approved jurisdiction, it wquld be trifling with the administration.
of justice to allow it to escape judgment on the ground that.
it had never been in court. Judge Thayer, in his opinion, 41
Fed. Rep. 849, stated that the views of Judge Philips were in
accord with his own.
We conclude, therefore, that the defendant was a nonresident of Missouri, that the suits were properly brought
against-.it in Saline County, under § 3481, and that service of process was properly made, under subdivision 4 of

3489.
It is insisted by the plaintiffs that the defendant waived-any
objection to the service 'of the summons, by appearing in the
state. court and filing petitions for the removal of the causes
into the Federal court. Each of the petitions for removal
states that the defendant appears "only for the purpose of
making this application," and the- motion made in the Federal
court, to quash the writ of summons and the sheriff's return,
states that the defendant appears specially and only for the
purpose of making that motion. The plaintiffs cite in support
of their view the cases of Vest v. Aurora City, 6 Wall. 139,
BushneZZ v Kennedy, 9 Wall. 387,, and Sayles v. NAorthwestern Ins. Co., 2 Curtis, 212.
The.opposing view is that the removal statute provides that,
after removal, the cause shall proceed in the Federal court in
the same manner as if it had been originally commenced
there.
To this it :s replied that the exception .to 4urisdiction is a
personal privilege of the'defendant, and may. be waived, that
the construction, contended for would enable the non-resident

OCTOBEIR TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

defendant to remove the suit into the Federal court, and then,
by there moving to dismiss it, defeat the jurisdiction of both
courts, that the defendant is not in the Federal court against
its consent, but is there by its voluntary action in view of the
necessary statement in the petition for the removal that the
suit is properly brought against it and is pending, that, as
the state court had jurisdiction of the subject-matter, it is too
late for the defendant, after appearing to the merits, to raise
an objection to personal jurisdiction, that, although the petitions for removal state that the defendant appeared only for
the purpose of making the application for removal, it could
not make such application without'admitting necessarily that
the suit was properly pending, and that, therefore, the special
appearance reserved nothing and amounted to nothing.
We do not find it necessary to decide this point, after holding that the Circuit Court of Saline County acquired jurisdiction. There are different -decisions on the question referred
to in the Circuit Courts of the United States. In New York
Construct-on Co. v Simon, 53 Fed. Rep. 1, it was held, in
the Sixth Circuit, that a defendant who removes a cause
to a Federal court will not there be allowed to say that he
was not properly brought before the State court, when he
failed to raise that pomnt before applying for removal. On the
other hand, in the Second Circuit, in Bentlif v. London &§
Colonsal .inance Assoc'n, 44 Fed. Rep. 667, it was held, citing
several cases, that a defendant could have a suit, of which the
state court acquired no jurisdiction, dismissed on that ground,
even after it had been removed by the defendant to the
Federal court.
(2) During the trial, on the examination, as a witness for
the plaintiffs, of John Cunningham, who came with the cattle
from Scotland to the United States and accompanied them on
-the railroad journey,. he was asked "Judging from your
experience as a shipper of this class and blood of cattle from
Scotland to this country, would the trip across the ocean, and
detention in quarantine, and shipment by rail to Mssouri,
cause cows to prematurely lose their calves or abort them, if
no unusual accident had occurred to them?" The-defendant

NEW YORK .&c. RAILROAD CO. v. ESTILL.

613

Opinion of the Court.

objected to that question, claiming that, under the circumstances, it was not liable for abortiong, and was liable for
nothing except injuries to the ammals, that damage from.
abortions was too remote, that it was something that the
defendant could not anticipate or know anything about, that
it was not alleged in the petitions, and that, so far, there was
no proof that the defendant knew that the cattle were in calf.
The court, after hearing argument, ruled as follows: "fy
opinion is, that if a railroad company receives a cow or any
other animal for transportation that is with calf, and such
animal is of greater value at the point of destination by virtue
of her being in such condition than she would otherwise. be,
and in the course of the journey, through the fault of the
carrier, the animal receives an injury that is the direct and
immediate cause of her losing her calf, that is an item of
damage that is recoverable from the carrier. It stands upon
the same footing as an ordinary physical injury to the animal.
Of course, there may be some difficulty on both sides in
proving or disproving the fact alleged that a particular injury
sustained led to the loss of calves, but the fact that there is
difficulty in making the proof don't alter the rule of law
The difficulty is one of fact and not a difficulty in the law
I shall allow you to proceed on both sides and try that issue
of fact." The defendant then asked whether such ruling was
without regard to the knowledge of the carrier. The court
replied "I don't think that has anything to do with it. The
carrier had a right to make any inquiry it saw fit before it
received the property, as to the condition the cows were in,
and to make its arrangements accordingly If no inquiries
were made and the cattle were received, the rule stated
applies." The defendant excepted to such raling of the court.
The witness answered to the question, "It would certainly
not." Like rulings were made, under the objection and exception of the defendant, in regard to other questions of the
same character.
We are of opinion that the evidence referred to was properly
admitted, and that the above ruling of the court thereon was
.orrect. Some remarks on the subject will be made further on.

-614

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinon of the Court.

The defendant objects to those. parts of the charge of the
court which are marked in brackets 1 and 2. But it is not
proper to select detached sentences in the charge and predicate
on them an objection. They must be read in connection with
the whole charge, and for that reason we have set it forth in
full. The court correctly told the jury that the defendant
was liable only for the damages directly traceable to its
egligence. There was nothing, in the two sentences complained of, which could have misled the jury Railway Co. v.
Wdtton, 13 Wall. 270.
As to paragraph 3 in brackets, it is contended by the
defendant that the court should have directed the jury that
the value of the cattle when delivered at the western terminus
of the railroad of the defendant, in Ohio, and not their value
at the final destination of the cattle in Saline County and
Howard County, Missouri, should be the basis on which to
estimate the damages. But it does not appear that any such
claim was made in the court below Both parties introduced
their evidence and tried the cases on the theory that the value
of the cattle in Saline and Howard Counties was the proper
basis for fixing the damages. No objection was made by the
defendant to the evidence of value at the point of final
destination, but it appears to have been conceded that it was
proper to base the damages on the value of the cattle at that
point. Evidence was introduced on the part of the plaintiffs,
without objection, as to what the market value of the cattle
would have been in the markets of Missouri, if they had
arrived there in good order and condition. Various objections
were made by the defendant to items in the evidence, but no
objection was made on the ground that the testimony was not
confined to the value of the animals at the terminus of the
defendant's railroad, and the court said "Inasmuch as the
damage complained of consisted, in part, in the fact that
certain of these cattle lost their calves, it appears to me to be
competent to show what the difference in value 'was in the
fall of 1883, when these cattle arrLved in Saline or Howard
County, between an animal that was then with caf and liable
to have a calf within the next two or three months and one

NEW YORK &c. RAILROAD CO. v. ESTILL.

615

Opimon of the Court.

that had aborted its calf." The counsel for the defendant
then said "I concede that, unless it appears they have the
power to prove its value exactly" Both parties introduced
their evidence on that theory, and no question was raised
about it, and it does not appear anywhere that the defendant
objected to that mode of trying the cause. Neither side
offered any evidence as to the value of the cattle at the
terminus of the defendant's railroad. The defendant introduced its own evidence on that basis, and asked one of its
witnesses what, in his opinion, was the value of the cattle on
Estill's farm or at Kansas City, assuming that they were in
good order, and asked another what he would say was a fair
price for the cattle per head, where they were, (i.e., on Leobard's farm in. issouri,) or at Kansas City, assuming them to
be in good condition and recovered from the effects of the
trip. The opinions on the motion for a new trial do not show
that any such, question as is now made was then presented.
The jury was authorized to infer from the evidence that the
defendant knew that the cattle were to be transported to
Missouri, and were intended for the market there.
It is further contended for the defendant that, if the proper
measure of damages is tho difference between the market
value of the cattle, in the condition in which they would
have arrived, but for the negligence of the defendant, and the
condition in which they did arrive, that value must be fixed
as of the time when the cattle first reached their destination,
and the plaintiffs could not show that subsequently some of
the cattle died. It is further contended that two rules for a
recovery by the plaintiffs were adopted, first, the difference
between the two market values of all the cattle, in the condition in which they arrived, and second, in addition thereto,
the value of those that subsequently, died.
The market value of the cattle at their destination would
depend upon their condition when they reached it. Proof
that the deaths subsequently resulted from injuries the cattle
had received in the collision, would simply show their real
condition when they reached their destination. It would not
establish any new injury or any additional damage. The

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

plaintiffs were permitted to prove that some of the cattle had
been so badly injured at the time of their delivery that they
subsequently died from the effect of such injury, and, therefore, were of no value when delivered. There was, as to those
animals, no double assessment of damages.
The charge of the court clearly pointed out the different
items of damage. There is nothing in the record to show
that the jury, under the charge, assessed the damages on the
view that the value of the animals was depreciated, and afterwards allowed for the same animals on the ground that they
became tot~lly worthless. The evidence in question tended to
show the condition and value of the cattle when they reached
their destination. Judge Philips, in his opinion, 41 Fed. Rep.
853, 856, said "The rule as to the measure of damages permits the plaintiff, up to the time of trial, to show the condition
of the injured animal, merely as a means of ascertaining the
result of the injury inflicted, so as to better enable the jury to
fix the damages at the time and place of delivery If the
cows did subsequently abort, this is proof only of the extent
of the injury inflicted, as much so as if they had subsequently
died from the effect of the collision. The only known limit
to the inquiry up to the trial is whether or not the subsequent
development in the condition of the animal is traceable directly
to the injury inflicted by the carrier;" citing Eazn v Railroad Co., 29 Mo. App. 53, 61, 62, and Sorenson v 1 ailroad
Co., 86 Fed. Rep. 166,. 167. To the same effect are .Xissourz
Pacf§c Railway v. Edwards, 14 S. W Rep. 607, and £ak'
im & Western_Railroad v Rosenberg', 31 Ill. App. 47. See
also Wilocox v. ]Plummer, 4 Pet. 172.
The Circuit Court required the witnesses for the plaintiffs
to describe the specific injuries to particular cattle, so that it
might be seen that such injuries resulted from the collision,
and also permitted both parties to show the condition of the
animals after their arrival at their destination, in order to
show how badly they were hurt by the collision.
The measure of daniages was properly stated by the court
in its charge to-the jury The difference between the market
value of the c.Ittle, in the condition in which they would have

NEW YORK &c. RAILROAD CO. v. ESTILL.

617

Opuuom of the Court;

arrived but for the negligence of the defendant, and their
market value in the condition in which, by reason of such
negligence, they did arrive, constituted the proper rule of
damages. fobile & tontgomery Railway v. furey, 111 U. S.
584., Smith v. Grzfflt, 3 Hill, 333, Sturgess v Bissell,46 N. Y
462, Cutting v Grand Trunk.Railway Co., 13 Allen, 381;
.McCune v Railway Co., 52 Iowa, 600, Missour, Pacqiji Railway v. Fagan,72 Texas, 127, Missouri Pao.f#c Rdilway Co.
v. Edwards, 14 S. W Rep. 607, Hutchinson on Carriers, 2d
ed., % -221, 770a.
It was not material whether the plaintiffs intended to keep
the cattle upon their farms, for breeding purposes, or to sell
them upon the market. The depreciation in value of the
cattle was the same in either case.
It was claimed by the plaintiffs that many of the cattle were
heifers which were bred in Scotland, and were in calf when
.imported, and that a number of them prematurely cast their
calves in consequence of the collision, and that the value of
those heifers was thereby greatly depreciated. The court
instructed the jury that the burden was upon the plaintiffs to
show that such abortions were the direct result of the collision.
The question was passed upon by the jury and found in favor
of the plaintiffs, and we cannot review their verdict upon the
weight of the evideice. The bill of exceptions states that it
contains all the evdemce offered in the case on either side, and
there was sufficient evidence to sustain the finding of the jury
Zeller v. _Eckert, 4 How 289, Express Co. v Ware,, 20 Wall.
543, Lancaster v. Collins, 115 U. S. 222, Chwago & .7Torthwestern, Railway v. Od, 117 1U. S. 123.
It was not necessary for the plaintiffs to show that the
defendant had notice, at the time of the shipment, tbat the
heifers were in calf, in order torender it liable for the, depreciation in their market value, in consequence of the abortions
which were caused by its negligence. It was not claimed by
the plaintiffs that, on account of the heifers being with calf,
any special care was necessary in transporting them, and the
suits were not brought on account of the absence of any such
special care. In Hart v. Pennqlvanta'Railroad, 112 U. S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opumon of the Court.

331, 340, it was said by this court. "As a general rule, and
in the absence of fraud and imposition, a coinnmon carrier is
answerable for the loss of a package of goods though he is
ignorant of its contents, and though its contents are ever so
valuable, if be does not make a special acceptance. This is
reasonable, because he can always guard himself by a special
acceptance, or by insisting on being informed of the nature
and value of the articles before receiving them." See, also,
Railroad Co. v. _Fraloff 100 U. S. 24, Baldwm v Ltverpool
& Great Western Steamshp Co., 74 N. Y 125, _YThCune v
Railway Qo., 52 Iowa, 600, Stewart v Rfpon, 38 Wisconsin,
584, 3 Sutherland on Damages, 191.
The Circuit Court gave the correct rule of damages as to
the heifers which lost their calves. If, through the negligence
of the defendant, the heifers lost their calves, the difference
between their market value, if they had arrived in calf, and
their market value aTter losing their calves, constituted the
amount of the plaintiff's damages. Missourz Pactf§c Railway
v Fagan,72 Texas, 127, .fcCune v Railway Co., 52 Iowa, 600.
There is no ground for applying a special rule to this case,
or for holding that the plaintiffs ought to have traced each
animal and to have shown the amount received for it when
sold. The Circuit Court correctly held that it was competent
for the plaintiffs to show what the difference in value was, in
the fall of 1883, when the cattle arriyed in Saline or Howard
County, between %heifer that was then with calf, and liable
to have a calf soon, and one that had lost her calf.
The plaintiffs may have received on fhe sale of the cattle
more or less thaii their market value. The defendant might
have brought out evidence as to-what the animals were .sold
for by the plaintiffs; to- contradict the evidence as to their
market value, but The plaintiffs could not bind the defendant
by the prices for which the animals weresold. The impracticability of adopting such a rule as is insisted upon'by the
defendant is pointed out in the opinions rendered on the motion
for a new trial. Many of the cows were kept for months
after their arrival in Missouri. Some of them were traded for
ponies,. and the ponies were sold at a loss. Others were sold

NEW YORK &c. RAILROAD CO. -v. ESTILL.

619

Opnlon"of the Court.

with a warranty that they would become breeders, and were
afterwards taken back-by the plaintiffs. Some were shipped
from point to point in the West and sold. The suggested rulewas, therefore, impracticable of application.
The Circuit Court refused to instruct the jury that, unless
the defendant knew that some of the cattle shipped by the
plaintiffs were cows or heifers in calf, the plaintiffs were not
entitled to recover for abortions, although caused by the
collision, as, without such knowledge, damages on account of
abortions could not have been in contemplation of the defendant at the time it received the cattle. Exception was made to
such refusal, but we have already remarked sufficiently on
the proposition involved.
(3) The Circuit Court further instructed the jury that, when
they-had assessed the damages in each case, they might compute interest thereon at 6 per cent per annum, from the time
suit was brought in each case, respectively, and the jury -was
directed to state in its verdict the amount of interest which it
awarded in each case. In the Estill case, it awarded in its
verdict, as interest, $2362.50, and in the Leonard case $11,880.
The defendant excepted to that part of the charge which
related to interest, and which is paragraph 10 contained in
brackets in the margin. The defendant calls attentien to the
fact that interest was not claimed -in the petitions, and that
§§ 2126 and 2723 of the Revised Statutes of Missouri of 1879
do not, nor does any other statute of that State, authorize the
recovery of interest in a suit for injury to property caused
by negligence, and that the Supreme Court of Missouri has
repeatedly so held. Seution 2126 provides as follows "The
jury on the trial of any issue, or on any inquisition of damages,
may, if they shall think fit, give damages, in the nature of
interest, over and above the value of the goods at the time of
the conversion or seizure." Section 2723 allows interest on
moneys due on written contracts, on accounts, and sundry
other money demands.
In Xenney v. Hannibal & St. .o. Bca'tloadt, 6& Mis'6iri, 99,
a case of the loss of
in 1876, the question arose whether, inproperty set on fire by a locomotive engtnqn. a railroad, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

jury were authorized to ballow to the plaintiff, in addition to
the value of the property destroyed, damages by way of interest on its value, not exceeding 6 per cent. The court said that
it was not apprised of any statutory provision which allowed
a jury to give interest for such damages, that there was no
such provision in the statute concerning interest, and that
§ 7 of the act concerning damages, which allowed interest in
cases of the unlawful conversion of property by the party sued
would not, in terms or by analogous reasoning, embrace a case
where no benefit could possibly have accrued to the defendant
by the negligence which occasioned the destruction of the
property The judgment was reversed because of the allowance of interest.
In .7iarihall v. Sc1 oker, 63 Missouri, 308, in 1876, it was
held that, in actions ex delicto, based upon the simple negligence of a party to whom no pecuniary benefit could accrue
by reason of the injury thereby inflicted, interest was not
allowable.
The same ruling was nade in Atkznson v A. & P Railroad, 63 Missouri, 367, in 18-76.
In -Myer v A. 6 P .Railroad,64 Missouri, 542, in 1877,
which was an action for damages for the killing of a heifer
through the negligence of a railroad company, the court held,
citing two of the cases in 63 Missouri, and Judge Norton
delivering its opinion, that the jury could not allow interest on
the damages from the time they accrued.
But; in 1878, in Dunn v Hannibal & St. Jo. Railroad,68
Missouri, 268, in an action to recover damages against a carrier,
for negligence in transporting live stock, the court below having instructed the jury to allow interest oil the damages at
the rate of 6 per cent. from the institution of the suit until
the verdict, the Supreme Court, Judge Norton delivering the
opinion, held that the instruction was proper, citing the case
of Gray v. Xissour, River Packet Co., 64 Missouri, 47, 50, in
which, in a case to recover damages for negligence by a common carrier in transporting an animal, the court below had
directed the jury to add 6 per cent interest from the time the
animal was shipped to the damages found, and the judgment

NEW YORK &c. RAILRQAD- CO, v. ESTILL.

621

Opinion of- the Court.

was affirmed, he himself delivering the opinion, and saying that
it was a general rule, that, when goods-were not delivered by
a common carrier according to contract, the measure of damages was the value of the goods with interest from the day
when they should have been delivered, less the freight, if
unpaid. No allusion was made in either case to the cases in
63 Missouri, or to § 2126.
In .De Stezger v. tannibal &-St. Jo. Railroad,73 Missouri,
33, in 1880, while Judge Norton was still a member of the
court, it was held, in a suit for the destruction of hay by fire
escaping from the defendant's locomotive through its negligence, that interest was not allowable in cases of that character, citing the three cases in 63 Missouri, and the case in 64
Missouri, above referred to.
In Tirade v hilissourz Pa jft Railway, 18 Missouri, 362, in
1883, reference was made to the two cases to that effect in 64:
Missouri, and 73 Missouri, and it was said that interest was
not allowable in actions for negligence.
In Himes v S. Lous ccc. Railway, 85 Missouri, 611, in 1885,
which was an action against a railroad company for damages
for negligence in killing a horse and breaking a wagon by a
train of cars at a public road crossing, the court below had
instructed the jury to allow six per cent interest on the damages. The Supreme'Court of Missour)i delivering its opinion
by Judge Norton, hld that the interest was not allowable,
referring to the case in 73 Missouri, but, as the plaintiff
remitted the amount of the interest, the judgment was affirmed, except as to the amount remitted.
In The State v JHarngton, 44 Mo. App. 297, it was held,
referring to the cases above cited from 63, 64, and 73 Missouri,
that where an action ex delicto is based upon the simple negligence of the defendant, to whom no,benefit had accrued or
could accrue by reason of the injury or wrong, interest was
not allowable.
It may not, perhaps, be possible to reconcile with one
another all of the foregoing cases, but, on the whole, we
regard-it as an established rule of the Supreme Court of Missouri, in the construction of the state statutes, that the jury is

OCTOBER TERI, 1892.
Opinon of the Court.

not warranted in allowing interest in a case like the present,
from the time suit was brought. When property is wrongfully
injured or destroyed,it is supposed that the wrongdoer derives
no benefit.
The defendant cites the case of Shockley v Fischer, 21 Mo.
App. 551, as holding that interest is not allowable when it is
not claimed in the petition.
It is well settled as a general rule that the measure of
damages in the case of a common parrier is the value of the
goods entrusted to it for transportation, with interest from the
time wheri they ought to have been delivered. Mobile & .Montgomery ibalway v Jurey, Il U. S. 584, Gray v 3issourz
River Packet Co., 64: Missouri, 47, Dunn v ffannibal & St.
Jo. 1 ailroad, 68 Missouri, 268, Hutchinson on Carriers,
2d ed. § 771 1 Sutherland on Damages, 629. But when the
matter appears to have been regulated by statute in the
State, and the statute has been interpreted by its highest
court, the regulation of the statute will be followed in the
courts of the United States.
We have considered all the questions raised by the. defendant, -and do not think it necessary to discuss them further.
The judgmentin the Estill case zs afirmed as to the $8750
damages, but zt is not affl-Pmed as to the amount of -interest, or any part thereof,. awarded by the verdict or judgment. Thatjudgment 's modified as to such interest, and
the case zs remanded to the court below, with a direction to
enter a judgment for the plazntifjs for $8760, being the
damages assessed by the jury, with interest on such judgmentfrom the time it shall be entered until it shall be paid,
andfor the costs andchargesof the plantiffs ,&nthe Circuit
Cb~rt.
The judgment in the- Zeonard case i afirmed as to. the
$44,000 damages, but it is not afflrmed as to the amount of
interest, or any part thereof, a'warded by the verdict or
judgment. The judgment i modified as to such interest,
and the.jase is remanded to the court below, with a direction
to enter ajudgmentfor the plaznthffis for $44,000, being the
damages assessed by the jury, with interest on such judg-

