MILES ;v. CONNECTICUT..LIFE

INS: CO.

Syllabus.

In this case the relator had been adjudged to'be entitled to
160 acres of the public landsg; the patent had been regularl:r
signed, §ealed, countersigned and recorded; and it was held
that a mandamus to the Secretary of the Interior to deliver the
patent to the relator should be granted. It was said -in.this
case by Mr. Justice Miller: "Whenever this takes place"
(that is, when a patent is duly executed) "the land has ceased
to be the land of the government, or, to speak-in technical
language, title has passed from the government, and the power
of these officers to deal with it has also passed away."
It was not competent for the Secretary of the Interior thus
to revoke the action of his predecessor, and .the.decree-bf the
A-firmed.
court below must, therefore, be

MILES v. CONNECTICUT MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED

STATES FOR- THE

EASTERN DISTRICT OF PENNSYLVANIA.
la. 92.

Submitted December 14,1892.-Decided January 9,1893.

A policy of life insurance was issued, insuring the life of a husband for thq
benefit of his wife, for $5000, for life, a premium named to be paid annually, and, if not paid, the policy to cease. It was made at the instance
of the husband, he paid with his own money all tie premiums which
were paid, being nine, the policy remained always in his possession, and
the wife had nothing to do with'it. Before the tenth premium became
due, the husband advised the company that he could not pay that preimium, and wished to take out a paid-up policy, under a provision therefor.
The comrnany advised him not to do so but to have so much of the $5000
released as would enable him, with the sum allowed for such release, to
pay what would be due as a preminm on the remainder. He agreed to do
so, and presented to the company what purported to be a receipt signed
by his wife for $82.39, as a consideration for the release of $700 of the
. 5000, the $82.39 being applied towards the premium on the $4300 policy.
Thereupon the husband.received a policy for $4300 insurance on his life
for his wife's benefit, bearing the same ;umber as the $5000 policy, with
a less annual premium. A year later he advised the company that he
VOL. cxvir -12

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.
could not pay the premium on the $4300 policy, and took a paid-up
policy for e1195 Qn his life for the benefit of his wife, having first given
the company what purported to be a receipt signed by his wife for
e583.24 as a consideration for all claims on account of "policy No." so
and so, released, the e583.24 being applied in payment of a premium on
a participating paid-up policy for $1195. The wife's name on both
receipts was written bythe husband without her assent. In a suit on
the $5000 Policy brought by the wife, the company set up the non-payment of-any premium on it after the date of the $4300 policy. Held, that
that wasI good defence, and that there was nothing to justify the failure
to pay the premiums.
The cases of M2Ianhattan Life ts. Co. v. Smith, 44 Ohio-St. 156; Whitehead
v. . w York Life Ins. Co., 102 N. Y. 143; and Garner v. Germania Life
Ins. Co., 110 N. Y. 266; distinguished.

inms was an action to recover on a policy of life insurance.
Trial, verdict for the defendant, and judgment on the verdict;
to review which this writ of error was sued out. The case is
stated in the opinion.
Ar. Richard P. White and .M'. James Aylward Develin
for plaintiff in error.

Arr. ffunn Hanson for defendant in error.
MR. JUSTiCE BLA.TOHFORD delivered the opinion of the court.
This is-an action at law, brought by Sarah G. Miles against
the Connecticut -Mutual Life Insurance Company, in the Court
of Common Pleas INo. 3, for the county of Philadelphia, State
of Pennsylvania, and removed by the defendant, a Connecticut
corporation, into the Circuit Court of the United States for
the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.
The suit was brbught to recover $5000, with' interest, on a
policy of insurance issued by the defendant on June 20, 1877.
The policy set forth.. that, in consideration, of the representations and declarations made to the corporation in the application for the insurance, and the annual premium of $140.20, to
be paid to it on or before June 20 in every year, it insured the
life of John S. Miles (the insured) for the term of his natural
life, in the sum of $5000, for the sole use and benefit of Sarah

MILES v. (.ONNECTICUT LIFE INS. Co.

179"

Opinion of the Court.

G. Miles, (the assured,) the wife of the insured.

It was pro-

vided in the policy that if any premium thereon, subsequent
to the first, was not paid when due, "then -this policy .shall
cease and determine."
All of the premiums paid on' the policy were paid by John
S. Miles,- with his own money. The policy was made at his
instance. It remained continuously' in his possession, and during the entire time it was in' force his wife. had nothing to do

with it.
The sixth condition in the policy, being one of the express
conditions and agreements upon which it was issued and
accepted, was as follows: "6th. That if, after -the payment of
two or more annual premiums upon this policy, the.same shall
cease and determine by default in the payment of any subsequent premium when due, then this conipany will grant a
paid-up policy, payable as above, for such amount as the than
present value of this policy will purchase, as a single premium:
Provided,That this-policy shall be transmitted to and received
by this company, and application made for such paid-up policy,
during the lifetime of the said insured, and within one year
after default in the payment of premium hereon shall first. be
made."
In June, 1886, John S. Miles -calledat the office of the company in Philadelphia, where all the preceding premiums had
been paid, and said that he was unable, to pay the premium
then coming due, and on that acepunt, desired to give np the
policy for $5000 and tak6 a paid-up policy under the. sixth
condition above set forth. He was told by the company th.e
disadvantages of doing so, and was advised by it that a plan
more beneficial would be to have . so much of the .$5000
released as would enable him, with the sum allowed by the
company for such release, to pay what would be due as a
premium on the remaining sum under the policy. The clerk'
of the company calculated the amount, and finding that if
$700 were released an allowance would be made by the company of $82.39, which was very nearly what would then be
due -as premium on the $4300 remaining, Mr. Miles decided
to adopt that course. He procured from the company the

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

requisite papers for the signature of his wife, and afterwards
deliveied such papers to the company with her name purport:
ing to.be signed to a receipt, dated June 20, 1886, for $82.39,
"as a full consideration and satisfaction for all claims and
demands" on account of $700 of the amount of the $5000
policy, "released, quitclaimed, surrendered and discharged to
said company," the $82.39 "1having been applied as follows:
In part payment of 1886 premtium on the remaining $4300 of
said policy." Thereupon, Mr. Miles received from the company its policy for $4300 upon his life for his wife's benefit.
That policy was executed and dated June 28, 1886, and stipulated for an annual premium of $120.57. It bore the same
number as the $5000 policy.
In June, 1887, Mr. Miles again visited the office of the company at Philadelphia, and said that he could not pay the
premium on the $4300 policy, and insisted upon taking out a
paid-up policy, though again advised by the defendant against
doing so. He was given the requisite receipt to procure the
signature of his wife to it, and returned it to the company
with what purported to be her signature. This receipt was
dated June 20, 1887, and set forth that she had received from
the company $583.24 "as a full consideration and satisfaction
for all claims and demands" on account of policy No. 145,756,
"released, quitclaimed, surrendered and discharged to said
company, said amount having been applied as follows: In
payment of a premium on a participating paid-up policy" for
$1195. Mr. Miles received from the company on July 9,
1887, a policy of that date for $1195, on his life,, payable to
his wife.
Mrs. Miles testified that her name on both receipts had
been written by her husband without her assent; but it also

appeared that her name to the application for the $5000 policy
was written by him, and that in his dealings with two other
insurance companies he had signed her name.
Mr. Miles died in February, 1888, of pulmonary consumptioxi, and his wife testified that a year before his death he was
in very poor health. He was able, however, to attend to his
business affairs within three months of his death, and there

MILES" . CONNECTICUT LIFE INS. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

was no evidence that in June, 1886, he was otherwise than in
good health.
In the affidavit of defence put in by the defendant in the
state court, there were set forth the issuing of. the policy.for
$4300 and of the policy for $1195, the discharge of the company from all liability on the policies for $5000 and. $4300, and
the fact that no premium bad been paid on the $5000 policy
after June 28, 1886. The defendant pleaded non asqumpsit.
The case was tried before Judge Butler and a jury, in April,
1889. At the trial, the plaintiff asked the court to charge the
jury: "1. That if the company united with the agent and
accepted the surrender of the policy in suit from him when he
had no authority to make such surrender, and did this wilhout
notice to or knowledge of the plaintiff, they cannot complain'
of the non-payment of premium after such surrender and
acceptance." To that point, the court answered: "The futile
attempt to surrender the policy- and the transaction referred
to was hothing more in legal contemplation -had no effect
whatever on the rights or obligations of either party. The
defendants were not required to notify the plaintiff of the transaction, but they were fully justified in believing, by the conduct
and representations of her agent and husband in presenting the
paper, which purported to be signed by her, that she- knew
and authorized the transaction. There is nothing in what is
stated in the point sufficient to excuse her failure to pay the
premium when it became due."
The plaintiff also asked the court to charge the jury: "2.
If the surrender was made without authority, it was a wrongful act on the part of both the company and the, agent, and
the non-payment of the premium is not a bar to the recovery."
The court disaffirmed that point.
The plaintiff also asked the court to charge the jury: "-3.
The jury are the sole judges of the credibility of the statement
of the witnesses as to what took place at the time of the surrender." To that point, the court~answered: "It is. true, as a
general proposition, that the jury are the judges of the credibility of the witnesses, bot the jury are not at liberty to disbelieve the witnesses without finding something in their

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

conduct or statements, or in other evidence in the cause, tending to discredit them, and such finding, under the circumstances,
would be unjustifiable. Furthermore, if these witnesses were
disbelieved and disregarded, the result would not be varied.
No conclusion that would justify the non-payment of the premiums would be permissible under the evidence, even in the
absence of their testimony."
The plaintiff also asked the court to charge the jury: "4.
If the company accepted 'the surrender without taking due
steps to ascertain whether Mrs. Miiles had authorized it, this
was such negligence as amounts to evidence of collusion."
The court disaffirmed that point.
The court, in respect to the defence that the $5000 policy
was annulled by surrender, charged the jury that that defence
was not sustained; that the policy was not annulled; and that
the transaction between the plaintiff's husband, who was her
agent,-and the defendant, respecting it, was not authorized by
the plaintiff, and, therefore, had no effect on her rights or obligations under the contract.
. As to the defence that the premiums due on the $5000 policy
were not paid, the court charged the jury that that defence
was sustained and was fatal to the plaintiff's claim; and the
court further charged the jury as follows: "The premiums,
the payment of which was necessary to keep the policy alive,
were not paid, and nothing has been shown, in the judgment
of the court, which excuses or tends to excuse the failure to
pay them. Whether the failure resulted from the agent's inability to' pay or his unwillingness to pay is unimportant. He
did not pay, and the principal must bear the consequences of
his failure. It was her duty to have the payments made, and
failing in this she 'cannot recover." The court also charged
the jury as follows: "As I have already charged you, gentlemen, there is nothing here to justify a failure to pay the premiums, and in consequence of that failure the plaintiff cannot
recover, and your verdict must be for the defendant."
The plaintiff excepted to the direction to find a verdict for
the defendant, to the refusal of the court to affirm the plaintiff's points 1, 2, 3 and 4, to the answer to each of those points,

I LES v. CONNECTICUT LIFE INS. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

and to the instruction of the court that, as the evidence showed
that the premiums were not paid, and nothing had been shown
to excuse such non-payment, the plaintiff could not recover.
The plaintiff moved the court for a new trial, which was
denied, the court holding that, as the papers purporting to be
signed by the plaintiff were forged, the act of the defendant in
accepting the attempted surrender of the $5000 policy was
procured by fraud, and was no more binding on it than the
husband's dishonest act was binding on the plduintiff; that
there was no justification in the evidence for the position that
the act of the defendant seduced the husband from his duty as
her agent and created an interest or motive in him hostile to
its discharge, or for the contention that, if the company had
not allowed the husband to do what he did, he would have
paid the premium on the $5000 policy, or would have informed
his wife that he had not done so; that the defendant was not
required to notify the plaintiff of the situation; that it believed,
and was justified in believing, that she knew all about it; that
she could justly demand no more than that the transaction (of
the surrender) should be treated as if it had not occurred, leaving her rights unaffected; that if she was injured, it was by
the faithlessness of her agent and her own failure to supervise
his acts, and without any fault of the defendant; that the
cases cited by the plaintiff did not rule this case; that Whlte7ead v. New York Life .[surance Co., 102 N. Y. 143, was
readily distinguishable; and that, if it were identical, it could
not be followed, because it would not be a sound exposition of
the law. The jury having found a verdict for the defendant,
a judgment for it was entered thereon, and the plaintiff has
brought the case here by a writ of error.
The Circuit Court held that the $5000 policy was not surrendered or cancelled by the transaction between the defendant and Mr. Miles, but it further held that, although the
surrender was void, the policy was forfeited, because no premium was paid on it after the attempted surrender.
It is contended that the court erted in not charging the jury
.n accordance with the plaintiff's requests numbered 1, 2, 3
and 4; that it erred also in making the charges to which the

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

plaintiff excepted, as before stated; that'the defendant, having been guilty of a wrongful act in cancelling the $5000
policy, and having thus declared its intention'not to be bound
by such policy, cannot take advantage of afailure on the part
of the plaintiff to make a tender of. a premium which, by its
own act, it gave notice it would not receive; that, as Mr.
Miles was the messenger of his wife to pay the premiums on
the $5000 policy, the defendant, when it dealt with him in
another character and for another purpose, made him its
agent and acted upon his report at its peril; that the declaration by the defendant that the $5000 policy was at an end,
before there had been any default on the part of the plaintiff,
was a distinct breach of contract, for which it thereupon
became liable and from which it can take no advantage; that
the defendant put into the hands of Mr. Miles the means by
which he could evade the performance of his duty, and it can,
not now set up as.a defence his failure to perform that duty;
that the $5000 policy was cancelled before the day when the
premium was due on it in 1886 had ended, so that the plain.
tiff was in no default when the defendant annulled its con.
tract; that the plaintiff is entitled to the presumption that, it
the defendant had not cancelled the $5000 policy, Air. Miles
would either have paid the premium himself or would have
notified the plaintiff of his inability to do so, and, she would
have paid it; that there was nothing in the transaction but
the act of the defendant in unlawfully annulling the $5000
policy; that the case, therefore, is the ordinary one of the
rescision of a contract by one party, relieving the other party
from performance or tender of performance; and that the
plaintiff was entitled to go to the jury upon the question
whether the action of the defendant in accepting a surrendei
of the $5000 policy was in good faith.
The plaintiff relies on three cases in particular, -namely:
_Hanattan,Zife ins. Co. v. Smith, 44 Ohio St. 156; Whitehead v. NVew York Lffe Lis. Co., 102 N. Y. 143 ; and Garner
v. Germania sn. Co., 110 N. 'T. 266. , But we think those
cases are distinguishable from the one before us.
In -Manhattan Life In.q, Co. v. Smith, a policy had been

MILES v. CONNECTICUT LIFE INS. CO.
Opinion of the Court.

issued by the company upon the life of Smith, in favor of his
wife. She was, entitled by the policy to participate in the
profits, a portion of which, in the form of dividends, was to
be applied each year to reduce the premium. It had been the
uniform practice of the company to give timely notice of the
amount of premium, the amount of dividends and the balance*
to be paid in cash. The company neglected to give suchnotice, although having knowledge of the residence of the
wife, and by reason thereof a premium was not paid at the
time specified in the policy. ,It was held that the company
could not set up the failure topay the premium as a defence
to a recovery upon the policy, although by .the terms thereof
it was to be forfeited in case of failure 'to pay a premium on
any of the dates stipulated therein. The company had uniformly sent such notices to the husband, and he had made
payment of the premiums from year to year; but it appeared
that the company was informed by the husband that he and
his wife had separated, she having commenced a proceeding
against him for alimony, and that he was desirous of having
the policy changed and made payable to his estate; and it
was held that, after that, the company was not justified in
treating him as her agent for the purpose either of receiving
notice for her of the -amount of premium, the amount of
dividends and the balance payable in cash, or of making a
surrender of the policy. It was further held, that, under those
circumstances, an attempt by the husband, without the knowledge of the wife, to surrender the policy to the company, was
inoperative, and the rights of the wife were not thereby impaired. It was manifestly held in that case that the wife was
entitled to know what amount of premium was due, -and when
it was due, and that a notice thereof to the husband was no.
sufficient, because the- company knew that the husband was
not acting as agent for the wife, but in hostility to her interests and against her, Moreover, in that case it does not
appear that the husband informed the company that he could
not pay the premium, whereas in the present case Mr. Miles
did so inform the defendant, before attempting any surrender.
In WTithead v. NYew Yor? Life Ins, Co., a husband insured

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

his life for the benefit of his wife, upon three policies, the
money
payable, in the event of the death of the
wife, to being
her children.
She died before the husband, and he.
without the knowledge of the children, surrendered the
policies to the company and ieceived the surrender value
of them. At the time of the surrender, the premium upon
one of the policies was past due, while the other two policies
were in full force. Suit being brought by the children upon
the three policies, the- court held. that there could be no
recovery on the policy on which the premium was due and
unpaid; but that upon the other two policies there should be
a recovery, on the ground that, by cancelling the policies, the
company placed itself in a position of giving no notice of premiums due, and that, if such notice had been given, it might
have resulted in payment. In that case, the amount of the
premium was fixed. It does not appear that the father was
able to pay the premiums on the two policies; but he did not
inform the company that he was not able. ,Inthe present case,
Mr. Miles informed the defendant that he was not able to pay
the premium; and that statement was not discredited at the
trial. In view of the distinction between the two bases, we do
_not feel called upon to express an opinion as to the soundness
of the decision in the New York case.
In Gcrner v. Germania Zife R8. Co., the insured was a
father who was inade by the policy trustee for the beneficiaries, who were his children. A premium fell due on September- 24. It was not paid; and four days later, the father
surrendered the policy and recbived a new one for the benefit
of his second wife, who was not the mother of the beneficiaries
in the first policy. The new policy was for the same amount
as the first one, and stipulated for the payment of a like annual
premium. In a suit by the children upon the first policy, the
defence was taken that it was determined by the failure to pay
the-premium; but the court held that the new policy was only
a continuation or renewal of the one surrendered, and that,
therefore, the company waived any failure to pay the premium
due September 24. It is manifest that the decision in that
case has no application to the -case before us.

IMLES v. CONNECTICUT LIFE INS. Co.
Opinion of the Court.

The case of Hight v. Continental LDfe
s. Co., 10 Insurance
Law Journal, 223, cited by, the llaintiff, was a case where the
company deliberately violated its contract, by refusing to accept a note in part payment of the premium, as it had done
before, in accordance with the terms of the policy, and by requiring the payment of the full premnium in cash. In Pitcker
v. Nfew Fork Life Ins. Co., 33 La. Ann. 322, also cited by the
plaintiff,'the c0mpany,, for the purpose of defeating the right
of the beneficiary, became a party to an agreement by which
the policy lapsed. The casq of Schneider v. United Staes
-Life ns. Co., 52 Hun, 130, 'was decided on the authority of
W-kitehead v. lNew York Zife ns. Co. before referred to.
In the present case, the husband went to the office of the
defendant, when the premium was coming due in 1886, and
stated to it his inability to pay that premium, before he
offered to surrender the $5000 policy, or the defendant agreed
to accept the same. There is nothing to show that the defendant connived at the non-payment of the premium, or that
Mr. Miles had been furnishdd with or had monejr to pay it.
The Circuit Court was correct in charging the jury that noth-'
ing had been shown which excused or tended to excuse the
failure to pay the premiums; and it is entirely manifest that
Mr. Miles assured the defendant that he could not pay the
premium, before he offered to surrender the $5000 policy, or
the defendant accepted a release of it. In June, 1886, the
defendant induced Mr. Miles to abandon his purpose of taking
.a paid-up policy, and in 1887 urged him in vain not to take
one. The law imposed no duty on the defendant to inquire
into the ability of the plaintiff to procure money to pay the
premiums. It had a right to rely on the statement of Mr.
Miles, who, in that respect, under the circumstances of -the
case, was acting within his authority. It had a right to rely
upon the assurance of Mr. Miles that h'e could not pay the
premium in 1886, and upon the fact that he did not pay it;
and it afterwards acted upon that statement by inducing him
not to take up a paid-up policy, and by giving him a reduced
policy in exchange for the $5000 policy. It acted with entire
good faith, and w*ith good sense and kindness and justice.

OCTOBER TERMS 1892.
Dissenting Opinion: Brown, J.

We see no error in the'action of the Circuit Court, and its
'judgment is
A.ffirmed.
Mm JUSTICE BRowN dissenting.
I am compelled to dissent from the opinion of the court in
this case. I think the company is estopped by its own act to
set up the non-payment of the premium as a~defence. At the
time the original policy was surrendered and the new ones
taken out, there had been no failure to pay the premiums as
they became due. The surrender was made without the authority or knowledge of the plaintiff, and it is admitted that
it was not binding upon her, but it was made by one who did
have authority to pay her premiums upon the original policy,
and was accepted by the company, and, for the time being,
the reduced policies were treated as the only contracts between the parties. In such case the plaintiff was at liberty to
ratify the act of her agent or to repudiate it. She took the
latter course and brought suit upon the original policy. Under
these circumstances she ought not to be prejudiced by the fact
that the agent whom she had authorized to pay the premiums
betrayed his trust, and attempted to cancel her contract, unless
she in some way adopted or confirmed his act. So far as the
surrender was concerned, the defendant dealt with the insured
at its peril, and was bound to ascertain whether his act was
authorized or not, and is in no position to claim that the plaintiff should have paid the premium upon the original policy
when it had itself treated it as cancelled. Having elected to
treat the original contract as at an end, it is estopped now to
claim that the plaintiff had not performed it. "It is a prinoiple of law that he Who prevents a thing from being done
shall not avail himself of the non-performance which he has
himself occasioned." 3 Addisdn on Contracts, 798.
I think the case of Mlitehead v. New York. ife Insurance
Co., 102 N. Y. 143, is indistinguishable in principle from this,
and is a sound enunciation of the law upon the point involved.
In that case the Court of Appeals of New York held that
where a policy in full force was surrendered by the husband,

MILES v. CO NNEOTICUT LIFE INS. CO.
Dissenting Opinion: Brown, J.

without the assent of the assured, the subsequent failure to
pay the accruing premiums did not alone warrant a forfeiture;
that by the agreement of surrender the insurance company did
an act the tendency and purpose of which was to prevent
future payments by the parties interested, and the company
could not defend upon a default to which its own wrongful
act contributed, and but for which a lapse might not have
occurred. It is true that it did not appear directly in that case
that the insured stated that he was unable to pay the premium, but it does not appear, that he was able to pay it, and it
is safe to. infer that he was not, or he would not have taken a
policy for a reduced amount. In neither case was thee an
actual forfeiture by reason of non-payment of premium before
the new arrangement was entered into, though in both cases a
forfeiture was probable.
The other authorities cited, though not directly in point, all
indicate that where the original policy is surrenderd without
authority, and a new one taken out, there can be no forfeiture
of the original policy for non-payment of premiums, so long
as the new policy is outstanding. Manhattan Zife Insurance
Co. v. Smith, 44 Ohio St. 156; Garnerv. Germania Company,
110 N. Y. 266; Pitcherv. .Tew York Life Insurance Co., 33
La. Ann. 322; Schneider v. United States Life Insurance Co.,
52 Hun, 130.
Inasmuch as no cases are cited of a contrary purport, it
seems to me that these authorities settle a principle of law
which ought not now to be disturbed.

