OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Syllabus.

now be heard to say that the plea was not allowable in such
case. There is high authority for saying that, as that question
was a subject of judicial inquiry in the action of replevin, it
would not be open elsewhere, even in behalf of the plaintiffs
in replevin, against whose contention the set-off was allowed.
Bartlett v. Hidder, 14 Gray, 449, 450; -M.erriamv. Woodcock,
104 Mass. 326.
M uch less can the defendants in the replevin suit, at whose
instance and in whose favor the set-off was allowed, be permitted afterwards to escape from the effect of a judicial
inquiry invoked by themselves. The use of a so-called action
of replevin as a mode of enforcing provisions of A contract in
writing seems scarcely consistent with the nature and purpose
of that form of action, as understood and enforced in England
and the older Sta es of this Union; but, as the Supreme Court
of Kansas, in the case already cited, has approved of such a
proceeding, and has likewise held that it is competent, for a
defendant in replevin, to set up as a defence unliquidated
damages arising out of a breach by the plaintiff of the contract, and as the plaintiffs in error in the present case themselves resorted to such a defence and obtained its benefits, it
was not error in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Kansas to hold that the plaintiffs in error were
precluded by the verdict and judgment in the replevin suit.
The judgment of the Circuit Court is
-Affirmed.

BARNETT v. KINNEY.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF IDAHO.
No. 415. Submitted January 9, 1893. -Decded

February 6,1893.

An assignment of all his property, made for the benefit of his creditors
with preferences, by a citizen of Utah to another citizen of Utah,
which is valid by the laws of Utah and valid at the common law, is
valid in Idaho against an attaching creditor, as to property in Idaho of

BARNETT v. KINNEY.
Statement of the Case.
which the assignee has taken possession, notwithstanding the provision
in the Revised Statutes of Idaho that no assignment by an insolvent
debtor otherwise than as therein provided is binding on creditors, and
that creditors must. share pro rata, without priority or preference. - -

Tnis was an action of -replevin commenced in the District
Court of Alturas County, Territory of Idaho, on December
12, 1887, by Josiah Barnett against P. H. Kinney to recover
the possession of certain goods and chattels mentioned in the
complaint and for damages and costs. The case was submitted to the court, for trial, a jury having been expressly
waived, upon an agreed statement of facts, and the court
made its findings of fact as follows: That on November 23,
1887, Mff. H. Lipmari was a citizen of the United States and
of the Territory of Utah, residing and doing business at Salt
Lake City, and was. possessed and the owner of real and
personal property in Utah, and of certain personal property
at Hailey, in Alturas County, Idaho; and that he was indebted to divers persons, (none of whom were then, or at
the time of trial, citizens, residents and inhabitants of Idaho,)
and was insolvent, and on that day duly made, executed and
delivered to Barnett, as his assignee, a deed of assignment
in writing, which was accepted by Barnett, who assumed the
execution thereof; that by the assignment, Lipman sold,
transferred, assigned and delivered to Barnett all his property, real and personal, wherever found, in trust, to take
possession and convert the same into cash, and pay the necessary expenses, and then his creditors, according to certain
classes named in the assignment, preferences being made
thereby in favor of certain creditors, as against others, all
being designated by classes; that.on November 25, 1887,
Barnett, as assignee, took actual possession of the personal
property situated in, Idaho, and on November 26, and before
the property was taken by Kinney, filed the assignment for
record. in the proper office in Alturas County; and that Kinney had actual knowledge and-notice in the premises. It was
further found that the assignment "was and is valid by the
laws of tthe Territory of Utah;" that Lipman was indebted
to the St. Paul Knitting Works, a corporation organized and

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

existing under the laws of the State of Minnesota, the liability
having been incurred by him as a citizen, resident and inhabitant of Utah, and in the transaction of his business there;
that on November 26, 1887, and while Barnett was in actual
possession, Kinney, who was sheriff of Alturas County, under
a writ of attachment in favor of that corporation and against
Lipman, took possession of the property; and that thereupon
this action of replevin was commenced and the possession of
the property delivered to Barnett, who had sold the same and
retained the proceeds subject to the final disposition of the
action. It was further found that prior to the taking of the.
property from Barnett by Kinney under the writ of attachment and after the assignment had been recorded, Kinney, as
sheriff, had taken it from Barnett's possession- under a writ of
attachment issued at the suit of a firm located in Nebraska
against Lipman, and it had been retaken from Kinney in an.
action of claim and delivery brought by Barnett against him,
which action was still pending. It was also found that the
goods had been shipped from Lip~Aan's store in Utah in
September, 1887, to Alturas County, and that Lipman from
September, 1881, up to the time of making the assignment,
had been doing business in Idaho in the running of a branch
store at Hailey, in Alturas County; and that at the time of
bringing this action defendant was wrongfully'detaining the
property from the possession of plaintiff.
The court found as conclusions of law that the assignment,
a copy of which was annexed to the finding of facts, was
a good and valid instrument, and conveyed title to the property in question; and that the plaintiff at the time of bringing the action and the trial was 'entitled to the possession of
the property, and to judgment therefor, and for nominal
damages and costs. Judgment having been entered, an
appeal was prosecuted to the Supreme Court of, the Territory,
by which it was reversed, and the cause remanded to the
District Court with instructions to enter judgment for the
defendant. The record shows that the case had been tried
in the District Court before the then Chief Justice of the
Territory, and that a change had taken place in that office

BARNETT v. KINNEY.

1479

Argument for Appellee.

when the hearing was had on appeal. Of the three members
composing the Supreme Court, one was for reversal and
another for affirmance, while the Chief Justice bad been of
counsel between the same parties in a case in the same District Court, but "with a different attaching creditor," and

-he stated that he had not participated in the aiscussion of
the case, but, his associates having reached opposite conclusions, the disagreeable duty rested upon him "of breaking
the dead-lock," which he did by concurring in the opinion
for reversal. The majority opinion is to be found in 23 Pac.
Rep. 922, and the dissent in 24: Pac. Rep. 624. The case was
brought by appeal to this court.
.Xr. Attorney General Miller and .AXr. C. S. VFarian for
appellant.
.r. W
appellee.

=lia' Stone Abert and XrM.John W. TFarner for

The assignment, being in direct conflict with the Revised
Statutes of Idaho, which prohibit preferences, (ยง 5S98,) was
inoperative to pass title to property in that Territory. Warner v. Jaafray, 96 N. Y: 248; Brown v. Smart, 69 Alaryland,
320, 329 ; Ex parte -Dicki;nson,29 So. Car. 453, 461 ; .Afason
v. Stricker, 37 Georgia, 262; Paine v. Zester, 44 Connecticut,
196 ; Pierce v. O'Brien, 129 Alvass. 314; Zicey v. Thompson,
1 Gray, 243; .Moore v. Church, 70 Iowa, 208. The power
of a State or Territory to pass such laws relating to-insolvents
is settled, (Pullman Car Co. v. Pennsylvania,141 U. S. 18,)
and the principle is well settled that where the lex loci contractus and the lex fori come into collision as to conflicting
rights, the comity of nations must yield to the law of the
land. Walworth v. HUarris,129 U. S. 355; Hiervey v. Rhode
Island LTocomotive ]orks, 93 U. S. 664; Milne v. .Moreton,
6 Binney, 353; S. C. 6 Am. Dec. 466; Green v. 'an. Buskirk,
5 Wall. 307; 7 Wall. 139.
The resident insolvent, under the law of Idaho, is not permitted to prefer any creditor in Idaho over any non-resident

480

OCTOBER TERMf,

1892.

Opinion of the Court.

creditor, and it would be unjust to concede the contention of
the assignee, that a non-resident insolvent, doing business in
Idaho, can make an assignment, giving preferences to nonresidents over residents of the place where he carries on business, and where his property is also situated.
There can be no distinction in administering the law, and
no preference can be given or right denied to the citizen of
one State over the citizen of another State or Territory of the
Ufnited States. Green v. *FanBzuskirk, 7 Wall. 139; Brown
v. Smart, 69 Mariyland, 327; Ei.ernia Bank v. Lacombe, 84:
N. Y. 367, 385; 'Painev. Lester, 44 Connecticut, 197; Ex
.parteDickinson, 29 So. Car. 462.

fR. CHIEF JUSTIcE FULLER, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court.
The Supreme Court of the Territory held that a non-resident
could not make an assignment, with preferences, of personal
property situated in Idaho, that would be valid as against a
non-resident attaching creditor, the latter being entitled to the
same rights as a citizen of Idaho; that the recognition by
one State of the laws of another State governing the transfer
of property rested. on the principle of 'comity, which always
yielded when the policy of the State where the property was
located had prescribed a different rule of transfer from that
of the domicil of the owner; that this assignment was contrary to the statutes and the settled policy of Idaho, in that
it provided for preferences; that the fact tfaat the assignee
had taken and was in possession of the property could not
affect the result; and that the distinction between a voluntary
and an involuntary assignment was entitled to no consideration.
Undoubtedly there is some conflict of authority on the ques-.
tion as to how far the transfer of personal property by assignment or sale, lawfully made in the country,of the domicil of
the owner, will be held to be valid in the courts of another
country, where the property is situated and a different local
rule prevails.'
We had occasion to consider this subject somewhat in Cole

BARNETT v. KINNEY.
Opinion of the Court.

v. Cunningham, 133 U. S. -107, 129, and it was there said:
"Great contrariety of state decision exists upon this general
topic, and- it may be fairly stated that, as between citizens of
the state of the forum, and the assignee appointed under the
laws of another state, the claim of the former will be held
superior to that of the latter by the courts of the former;
while, as between the assignee and citizens of his own state
and thestate of the debtor, the laws of such state will ordinarily be applied in the state of the litigation, unless forbidden by, or inconsistent with, the laws or policy of the latter.
Again, although, in some of the states, the fact that the
assignee claims under a decree of a court or by virtue of the
law of the state of the domicil of the debtor and the attaching
creditor, and not under a conveyance by the insolvent, is
regarded as immaterial, yet, in most,, the distinction between
involuntary transfers of property, such as work by operation
of law, as foreign bankrupt and insolvent laws, and a voluntary
conveyance, is recognized.- The reason for the distinction is
that a voluntary transfer, if valid where mad, ought generally
to be valid everywhere, being the exercise of the personal right
of the owner to dispose of his own, while an assignment by
operation of law has no legal operation out of the state in
which the law was passed. This is a reason which applies
to citizens of the actual situs of the property when that is
elsewhere than at the domicil of the insolvent, and the controversy has chiefly been as to whether property so. situated
can pass even by a voluntary conveyance."
We have here a voluntary transfer of his property by a citizen of Utah for the payment of his debts, with preferences,
which transfer was valid in Utah, where made, and was consummated -bythe delivery of the property in Idaho, where it
was tsituated, and then taken on an attachment in favor of a
creditor not a resident or citizen of Idaho. Was there anything in the statutes or established policy of Idaho invalidating
such transfer?
Title XII of Part Second of the Revised Statutes of the
Territory of Idaho; entitled "Of proceedings in insolvency,"
(Rev. Stats. Idaho, ยง 5875 to 5932,) provided that "no assignVOL. CXL

-- 31

OCTOBER -TERM, 1892.
Opinion- of the Court.

ment of any insolvent debtor, otherwise than, as provided in
this title, is legal or binding on creditors;" that creditors should
share _ro rata, "with o u t priority or preference whatever;" for
the discharge of the insolvent debtor upon compliance with
the provisions of the title, by application for such discharge by
petition to the District Court of the county in which he had
resided for six months next preceding, with schedule and inventory annexed, giving a true statement of debts and liabilities
and a description of all the insolvent's estate, including hia
homestead, if any, and all property exempt by law from execution. The act applied to corporations and partnerships, and
declared that if the partners resided in different counties, that
court in which the petition was first filed should retaiff jurisdiction over the case. :Nothing is clear'er from its various pro-visions than that the statute had reference only to domestic
insolvents. As pointed 'out by Judge Berry in his dissenting
opinion, the first section of the fifty-eight upon this subject, in
providing that "every insolvent debtor may, upon compliance
with the provisions of this title, be discharged from his debts
and liabilities," demonstrates this. The legislature of Idaho
certainly did not attempt to discharge citizens of other jurisdictions from their liabilities, nor intend that personal property in Idaho, belonging to citizens of other States or Territories, could not be applied to the payment of their debts unless
they acquired a six months' residence in some county of Idaho,
and went through its insolvency court.
The instrument in controversy did not purport to be executed under any statute, but was an ordinary common law
assignment with preferences, and as such was not, in itself
illegal. Jewell v.- Knight, 123 U. S. 426, 434. And it was
found as a fact that it was valid under the laws of Utah.
While the statute of Idaho prescribed pro rata distribution
without preference, in assignments under the statute, it did
not otherwise deal with the disposition of his property by a
'debtor nor prohibit preferences between non-residdnt debtors
and creditors through an assignment valid by the laws of the
debtor's domicil. No just rule required the courts of Idaho,
at the instance of a citizen of another state, to adjudge a trans-

BARNETT v. ]KINNEY.
Opinion of the Court.

fer, valid at common law and by the law of the place where it
was made, to be invalid, because preferring creditors elsewhere, and, therefore, in contravention of the Idaho statute
and the public policy therein indicated in respect of its own
citizens, proceeding thereunder. The law of the situs was
not incompatible with the law of the domicil.
In Bfalsted v. Straus, 32 Fed. Rep. 279, 2S0, which was an
action in New Jersey involving an attachment there by a
New York creditor as against the voluntary assignee of a
New York firm, the property in dispute being an indebtedness
of one Straus, a resident of New Jersey, to the firm, Mr. Justice Bradley remarked: "It is true that the statute of New
Jersey declares that assignments in trust for the benefit of
creditors shall be for their equal benefit, iA proportion to their
several demands, and that all preferences shall be deemed
fraudulent and void. But this law applies only to New Jersey
assignments, and not to those made in -6ther States, which
affect property or creditors in New Jersey. It has been distinctly held by the courts of New Jersey that a voluntary
assignment made by a non-resident debtor, which is valid by
the law of the place where made, cannot be impeached in New
Jersey, with regard to property situated'there, by non-resident
debtors. Bentley v. Whittemore, 1 0. E. Green, (19 N. J. Eq.)
462; Mtoore v. Bonnell, 2 Vroom (31 1N. J. Law,) 90. Tle execution of foreign assignments in New Jersey will be enforced
by its courts as a matter of comity, except when it would injure its own citizens; then it -'ill not. If Deering, Iilliken &
Co. were a New Jersey firm they could successfully resist the
execution of the assignment in this case. But they are not;
they are a New York firm. New York is their business residence and domicil. The me?e fact that one of the partners
resides in New Jersey cannot alter the case. The 1ew Jersey
courts, in carrying out the policy of its statute for the protection of its citizens, by refusing to carry into effect a valid
foreign assignment, will be governed by reasonable rules of
general jurisprudence; and it seemi to me that to refuse validityto the assignment in the present case, would be unreason"ble and uncalled for."

OCTOBER TERAM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

In 3.ay v..First National Bank-, 122 Illinois, 551, 556, the
Supreme Court of Illinois held that the provision in the
statute of that State prohibiting all preferences in assignments
by debtors applied only to those made in the State, and not to
those made in other States; that the statute concerned only
domestic assignments and domestic creditors; and the court,
in reference to the contention that, if not against the terms,
the assignment was against the policy of the statute, said:
"An assignment giving preferences, though made without the
State, might, as against creditors residing in this State, with
some reason, be claimed to be invalid, as being against the
policy of the statute in respect of domestic creditors - that it
was the policy of the law that there should be an equal distribution in respect to them. But as the statute has no application to assignments made without the State, we cannot see
that there is any policy of the law which can be said to exist
with respect to such assignments, or with respect to foreigi
creditors, and why non-residents are not left free to execute
voluntary assignments, with or without'preferences, a:mong
foreign creditors, as they may see fit, so long as domestic creditors are hot affected thereby, without objection lying to such
assignments that they are against the policy of our law. The
statute was not made for the regulation of foreign assignments, or for the distribution, under such assignments, of a
debtor's property among foreign creditors."
In T'ank v. Bobbitt, 155 Mass. 112, a voluntary assignment
made in North Carolina and valid there, was held valid and
enforced in Massachusetts as ,igainst a subsequent attaching
creditor of the assignors, resident in still another State, and
not a party to the assignment. The Supreme Judicial Court
observed that the assignment was a voluntary and not a statutory one; that the attaching creditors were not resident in
Massachusetts; that at common law in that State an assignment for the benefit of creditors which created preferences
was not .void for that reason; and that there was no statute which rendered invalid such arn assignment when made
by parties living in another State, and affecting property
in Massachusetts, citing Train v. -Yendall, 137. Mass. 366.

BARNETT v. KINNEY.
Opinion of the Court.

Referring to the general rule that a contract, valid by the
law of the place where. made, would be regarded as valid
elsewhere, and stating that "it is not necessary to inquire
whethdr this rule rests on, the comity which prevails between
different states and countries, or is a recognition of the general right which every one has to dispose of his property or to
contract concerning it as he chooses," the court said that the
only qualification annexed to voluntary assignments made by
debtors living in another State had been "that this court
would not sustain them if to do so would be prejudicial to
the interests of our own citizens or opposed to public policy."
And added: "As to the claim of the plaintiffs that they
should stand as well as if they were citizens of this State, it
may be.said, in the first place, that the qualification attached
to foreign assignments is in favor of our owfi citizens as such,
and in the next place, that the assignment being valid by the
law of the place where it was made, and not adverse to the
interests of our citizens nor opposed to public policy, no cause
appears for pronouncing it invalid." And see, among numerous cases to the same effect, Butler v. Wendell, 57 Michigan,
62; Receiver v. First National Bank, 7 Stewart, (34: N. J.
Eq. 450); Egbert v. Baker, 58 Connecticut, 319; Chafee v.
Fourth National Bank of New York, 71 Maine, 514; Ockerman v. Cross, 54 N. Y. 29; Weider v. .faddox, 66'Texas, 372;
Thurston v. Ro8enjFeld, 42 Missouri, 4:74.
We do not regard our decision in Green v. Van Buskirk,, 5
Wall. 307; 7 Wall. 139, as to the contrary. That 'case was
fully considered in Cole v. Cunningham, supra,and need not
be reexamined. The controversy was between two creditors
of the owner of personalty in Illinois, one of them having
olitained judgment in 'a suit in which the property was attached and the other claiming under a chattel mortgage. By
the Illinois. statute such a mortgage was void as against third.
persons, unless acknowledged and recorded as provided, or
unless the property was delivered to and remained with the
mortgagee, and the mortgage in that case was not acknowledged and recorded, nor had possession been taken. All.
prties were citizens of New York, but 'that fact Was not

