OCTOBER TERAM, 1892.
Syllabus.

preme Court of Appeals of West Virginia, affirming an order
appointing commissioners under a somewhat similar statute,
was there entertained by this court, solely because that order
had been held by the highest court of the State to be an
adjudication of the right to condemn the land, and to be a
final judgment, on which a writ of error would lie, and could
therefore hardly be considered in any other light by this court
in the exercise of its jurisdiction to review the decisions of the
highest court of the State upon a Federal question. 138 U. S.
287, 290. To have held otherwise might have wholly defeated
the appellate jurisdiction of this court under the Constitution
and laws of the United States; for if the highest court of the.
State held the order appointing commissioners to be final and.
conclusive unless appealed from, and the validity of the condemnation not to be open on a subsequent appeal from the
award of damages, it is difficult to see how this court could
have reached the question of the validity of the condemnation,
except by writ of error to the order appointing commissioners.
That dase, therefore, affords no precedent or reason for sus-taining this writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United
States.
Writ of error dismissed for want of jurisdition.

SMITHMEYER v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIM s.
No. 645. Sub'nitted January 9,1893. -Decided

January 23, 1893.

Bysec. 7 of the act of October 2, 1888,.25 Stat. 505, 523, c. 1069, in regard
to the building for the Library of Congress, which provided that all
contracts for the construction of the building should be made by the
Chief of Engineers of the Army, and repealed so much of the act of
April 15, 1886, 24 Stat. 12, c. 50, as required the construction of the
building according to the plan submitted by John L. Smithmeyer, and
enacted that "hereafter, until otherwise ordered by Congress, no work
shall be done in the construction of said Library except such as is herein
provided for, and all contracts for work or materials not necessary for

SMITRIEYER v: UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.
the execution of the worK contemplated herein are hereby rescinded," it
was provided that "all loss or damage occasioued thereby or arising
under said contracts, together with the value of the plan for a Library
building," so submitted by Smithmeyer, "may be adjusted and determined by the Secretary of the Interior, to be paid out of the sums heretofore or hereby app-ropriated." Smithmeyer and his partner afterwards
brought a suit in the Court of Claims against the United States, to
recover $210,000 as the value of plans and drawings made by them for a
building for the Library, which were delivered to and accepted by the
United States, and used in constructing the building. The Court of
Claims held, that the acts of the parties indicated that the services of
the plaintiffs should be estimated according to the rule of quantum
meruit, and not according to the' schedule of charges of the American
Institute of Architects, and that they were entitled to recover $8000 a
year for six years' services. Held, that that was a proper and reasonable decision.
Although the United States did not appeal, this court considered the question of the jurisdiction of the Court of Claims, and held, that, as the
right of action of the plaintiffs accrued in 1886, and the Court of Claims
from that time had full jurisdiction over it under its general jurisdiction, and as the general jurisdictional act of that court was not repealed
by the act of 1888, to the extent of this case, the plaintiffs could waive
the benefit of the additional method of adjustment provided by the act
of 1888, and the general jurisdiction of that court and such additional
method could both of them well stand together.

THIS was an appeal from a judgment in the appellants' favor
in the Court of Claims for $48,000 damages, their demand sued
for being $210,000. No appeal was taken by the government.

The case is stated in the opinion.
.Xh. John PauZ Jones, JM'. Reese H. Voorlees, and Mr.
James Coleman for appellants.
.X. Solicitor General and -Mr. -Felix Brannigan for
appellee.
MR.JusTicE BLAToHFORD

delivered the opinion of the court.

This is a suit brought against the United States in the Court
of Claims, by John L. Smithmeyer and Paul J. Pelz, architects,
to recover the sum of $210,000, as 3 per 'ent on $7,000,000,
the alleged cost of the building for the Library of Congress,
when completed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

The petition alleges that the claimants made and prepared
the general plans and drawings for the Library building now
in process of construction at Washington City; that from the
year 1873 to the year 1886, they, at the request of the United
States, were employed in making plans and drawings for a
building for the Library; that in 1886 such plans and drawings
were delivered to the United States and accepted by the latter,
which thereafter used and is using the same in the construction
of said Library building; that it will cost, when completed,
$7,000,000; that the customary charge by architects for the
making of general drawings and plans for the construction of
said building, and the reasonable value of such service so rendered by them, is 2-J per cent upon the cost of the building;
and that there is now due to the claimants 3 per cent on the
cost of said building, namely, $210,000.
The usual general traverse was put in by the United States.
The Court of Claims heard evidence, and filed findings of fact,
and afterwards additional findings of fact, all of which are set
forth in the margin,' with a conclusion of law that, upon the
1 Original Findings of Fact.

1. The claimants, John L. Smithmeyer and Paul J. Felz, were at the
times hereinafter mentioned copartners doing business as architects in the
city of Washington.
2. From the year 1873 until the 15th April, 1886, the claimants devoted
their time as architects in the making of plans and drawings for a building
for the Library of Congress. They acted under the direction- and at the
request of the commissions and committees of Congress mentioned in the
following acts of Congress, viz.: The commission created by the sundry
civil appropriation act, March 3, 1873, 17 Stat. 510, 513; the Joint Committee
on the Library of Congress, sundry civil act, June 23,1874,18 Stat. 204,226,
and the legislative appropriation act, August 15, 1876, 19 Stat. 143, 168;
the commission on the enlarged accommodation for the Library of Congress,
act April 3, 1878, 20 Stat. 35; the joint select committee on additional accommodation for the Library of Congress, organized under the act June
8, 1880,21 Stat. 165; deficiency act, March 3, 1881, 21 Stat, 414,424; and the
act April 15, 1886, 24 Stat. 15.
3. Under the act 3d March, 1873, providing for "a plan for a new
library building for a Library of Congress," the commission appointed
thereunder published and. issued the following prospectus or invitation to
architects:

SMITHMEYER

. UNITED STATES.

345

Opinion of the Court.

findings, the claimants were entitled to recover $48,000; and
it entered a judgment in their favor for that amount, from
WASHINGTON, August, 1873.
"To Architects:
"In accordance with the provisions of an act of Congress approved
March 3, 1873, the undersigned hereby invite architectural plans or sketches
(not including details or working plans) for a new building for the Library
of Congress, to be drawn in accordance with limits and conditions which
will be furnished to applicants. The sum of fifteen hundred dollars will be
paid for such design as may be adjudged the best by the commission, one
thousand dollars for the second best, and five hundred dollars to the third
best, to be paid on the 31st of December, 1873.
"The plans must be submitted on or before the 1st day of November
next, and addressed (prepaid) to the Librarian of Congress, Washington,
D.C.
"Commission:
"Chairman of the Joint Committee on the Library.
"Chairman of the Senate Committee on Public Buildings and Grounds.
"Librarian of Congress."
4. During the ensuing thirteen years, that is to say, between March 3,
1873, and April 15, 1886, the claimants prepared for and submitted to different committees and commissions of Congress the following sets of plans and
designs for a Library building, to wit:
(1.) In reply to the foregoing prospectus the claimants submitted a plan
for a Library building in the Italian renaissance style of architecture, to
said commission. Said building, by the terms of the prospectus, was to be
270 by 340 feet. These plans consisted of one perspective, one front elevation, one side elevation, one first-story plan, one second-story plan, and
one section. They were accepted by said commission in December, 1873,
and claimants were awarded the first 'prize for excellence of design and
were paid therefor a premium of $1500. In that competition there were
twenty-eight competitors, and prizes for first, second and third best plans,
respectively, of $1500, $1000 and $500.
(2.) Shortly afterward claimants, at the request of the chairman and
members of the Committee on the Library, submitted a new design as a
modification of the above-mentioned design, making a change of elevation
and some changes of ground plan. This design consisted of a colored
perspective, a front elevation, a portion of first-story plan, and a part of
the second-storyplan, five drawings In all.
(3.) About 1875, at the request of Senator Howe, chairman of the Joint
Committee on the Library, claimants prepared a plan for a new Library
building In the Gothic style-of architecture upon an entirely new basis.
This plan was for a building 463 feet 111 inches by 332 feet 9 inches, and
the series of drawings consisted of .seven different sketches, but four of
which were submitted to the committee.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

which the claimants have appealed to this court. The opinion
of the Court of Claims was delivered by Judge Nott, and is
(4.) Said Gothic plans were acceptable to the said committee, but at the
session of Congress following, at the request of Senator Howe, chairman
of said committee, claimants made modifications of the exterior design for
said Gothic building, five in number, and these were submitted to his
committee.
(5.). About 1877, at the request of Senator Howe, chairman of said committee, claimants prepared plans for a new Library building in the French
renaissance styie of architecture. These consisted of an elevation framed
and colored and a pencil study of the front elevation. In general arrangement it corresponded with the Gothic design, which largely increased the
capacity of the building over the premium plan, with the exception that the
first and second stories were interchanged. In all designs previous to this
one the building consisted of a basement, a very tall first story, and a subordinate second story. At the time these plans were prepared, instead of
the Capitol Hill site originally contemplated for the erection of the Library,
the committee considered Judiciary Square as a possible site, and, at the
request of the committee, claimants prepared two cross-sections of Judiciary
Square with the proposed building located, showing grades, sewers, etc.
These plans were delivered to the said committee.
(6.) Claimants next prepared, at the request of the Joint Committee on
the Library, a design for said building in the Romanesque style of architecture with perspective elevations, that being a cheaper style of architecture, and permitting the use of coarser material than the Gothic. There
were three drawings in all in this set of plans, and they were submitted to
the said committee.
(7.) About 1879, claimants, at the request of said committee, prepared a
design in the German renaissance style of architecture, with finished perspective and eight other drawings, consisting of front, rear and side elevations, and a full set of plans of the different stories, together with a section
showing the halls and reading-room, all of which were fully developed. The
study of the reading-room was an entirely new and original design, and Is
the idea carried out in the plans finally adopted by the act of Congress of
April 15, 1886, and as set forth in the report of the Chief of Engineers of the
Army mentioned in the sundry civil act of March 2, 1889, 25 Stat. 939,
966, as Eihibit D. There were also many changes in this set of plans, to
wit, in the ground plans, and showing higher development and greater
elaboration of original ideas and progress both in construction and light
effect.
(8.) In 1880, claimants prepared full general drawings for a building in
the Italian renaissance style of architecture, embodying all the improvements which had been made by the claimants since 1873. In this set of
plans there were finished drawings numbering forty. These drawings consisted of a colored perspective, with a full set of ground plans, elevations and

SMITHMEYER -v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

reported in 25 Ct. CL 481, but the additional findings of fact?
are not there set forth.
sections, drawn on a large working-scale one-eighth of an inch to tile foot and
one-fourth of an inch to the foot, showing thd complete arrangements of
the building. These plans, with exterior modified as set forth in paragraph
(10) below, are the plans adopted by act of Congress of April 15, 1886,
aforesaid, and they were readopted by the act of March 2, 1889, above cited.
These plans, drawings and designs, though prepared by the claimants' firm,
were prepared in consequence of a request made to J. L. Smithmeyer,
individually, by the Joint Select Committee on additional Accommodations
for the Library of Congress under the act 8th June, 1880, as more fully set
forth in finding 12.
(9.) In 1882, at the request of the said committee, claimants redesigned
and revised the Gothic plans above referred to in paragraphs (3) apd (4) of
this finding, making perspectives and front elevations. These revised plans
were also turned over to the committee, and were adopted by the Senate in
a bill passed by that body authorizing the construction of a Congressional
Library, but which failed in the House.
(10.) The set of Italian renaissance plans, prepared in 1880 by the claimanti, under instructions of the committee as aforesaid, was very severe and
simple, and at the request of the said committee in 1885 or 1886 two new designs were prepared by the claimants in the same style of architecture and
submitted to them. These exterior plans were more ornate than those submitted in 1880. They made no changes in the interior of the building, but
were intended to affect only the exterior, and consisted of perspectives.
These perspectives were made for the color effect of using different shades
of material in the elevation. They are on a large scale, and carefully considered with reference to the architectural effect of the building.
5. Claimants, in the year 1874, gave up their private business as architects, and from that time on until 1886 devoted themselves almost exclusively to the preparation of the plans above described, and up lo the time of
the commencement of this suit they had not regained'their private business.
In 1882 one of the firm, Mr. Smithmeyer, travelled throughout this
country and in Europe, visiting different library buildings in New Yotk,
Philadelphia, Boston, Baltimore, Liverpool, London, Paris, Brussels,
Vienna, 'Berlin, Dresden, Leipsic and Hanover, at the request of the. said
joint select commitftee, for the purpose of obtaining information in
respect to the architecture of the great library buildings of the world.
6. When Congress, by the act 15th o ,Apfil, 1886, adopted the plans prepared by the claimants in the Italian renaissance style of architecture, as
set forth in the preceding findings, the commission therein created was
organized, and the work of constructing the Library building under and in
accordance with the said plans so furnished by claimants and so adopted
by Congress was commenced in the month of October, 1886.
Under the direction of the commission the foundation was laid for the

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

The claimants complain that, instead of being allowed
$210,000, they were allowed only $48,000. The United States
rotunda and centre building, .nd for the curtains and corner pavilions of
the west front, after the plan so adopted by Congress, while the cellar
excavation and drainage system for the entire building has been completed.
Some 29,000 cubic feet of cut granite for the cellar walls and piers, and also
small quantities of terra-cotta pipe for flue linings and broken st6ne for
concrete, had been delivered on the premises. Only about 23,000 cubid feet
of the granite, however, had been accepted and paid for. A partial outfit
of derricks, tools, implements and other mechanical appliances had been
collected, mainly by transfer from the completed building for the State,
War and Navy Departments, and a number of contracts were in force.
7. (1.) In accordance with the provisions of the sundry civil act,
October 2, 1888, 25 Stat. 505, 523, General Casey, Chief of Engineers, on
October 3, 1888, assumed the superintendence of the new Library building.
In order to xpeet the requirements of said act, limiting the cost of said
building to $4,Q00,000, General Casey so far changed the plans adopted by
the act of April 15, 1886, as to reduce tlfe cost within this prescribed limit,
by cutting out the curtains connecting the wings with the central pavilion,
and abutting the wings immediately thereupon, thus eliminating the courts
formed by said curtains and the storage magazines contained therein, in
this way decreasing the size of the proposed building and the amount of
material required in its construction.
The plans so submitted are the plans marked A in the report of the Chief
of Engineers and are the identical plans submitted by John L. Smithmeyer
and adopted by Congress by the act of April 15, 1886, with certain parts
omitted as aforesaid.
(2.) Plans D, mentioned in said act of March 2, 1889, are the identical
plans which Congress had formerly adopted by the above-mentioned act of
April 15,1886, with certain interior parts of the building for book magazines
omitted, which omitted parts are shown in the drawings appended to the
said report of the Chief of Engineers.
8. At the time when the act 15th April, 1886, 24 Stat. 12, authorized
the construction of a Library building" substantially according to the plans
submitted to the Joint Select Committee on Additional Accommodations for
the Library of Congress by John L. Smithmeyer, in the Italian renaissance
style of architecture, with such modifications as may be found necessary or
advantageous without materially increasing the cost of the building," no
specifications fixing or designating, the material of the building had been
adopted, and until such specifications were adopted, or the kind of material
was in some way determined, it was impossible to fix, except approximately,
the amount of the estimated or anticipated cost of the building to be
constructed.
The first estimate of the cost of the building authorized by the act April
15, 1886, made by any officer or agent of the government was made by the

SMITHMEYER v. UITED STATES.

1349

Opinion of the Court.

has not appealed, but says that if the question of jurisdiction
raised in the Court of Claims and appearing on the face of the
Chief of Engineers of the Army in his report to the Speaker of the House
of Representatives, bearing date December 1, 1888- that is to say, after the
duty of constructing the building had been devolved upon him by the act
2d October, 1888, (25 Stat. 505,523.) In his report he submitted to Congress
an "estimate of cost of the original plan modified," which "estimate"
amounted to $6,003,140.
This original plan "modified" was the plan of the claimants adopted by
the act April 15, 1886, and the modification consisted in omitting about onesixth of the finished interior, though retaining the external walls of the
building as originally designed by the claimants. The portion so omitted
would cost, if built according to the original plan, about $l,000,000 in
addition to the estimate of $6,003,140 made by the Chief of Engineers for
the modified plan. This modified plan, to cost $6,003,140 was, designated in
,the report to Congress as plan D, and is the same plan adopted and authorized by the act 2d March, 1889, 25 Stat. 939, 966.
But in 1884, while the claimants' plans were still under consideration in
Congress, the claimant Smithmeyer had prepared u paper entitled" Description of the plans for a new building for the Congressional Library," which
was "ordered to be printed for the information of the members of the
House, April 3, 1884." The plans referred to in this document were the
same plans then before Congress, subsequently designated as the plan of
John L. Smithmeycr in the act of 1886, after which the building is now
being constructed, and it was an accurate description of the said plan as
then existing. It concluded with the following paragraph:
"The approximate estimate of the cost of completing this structure,
made from the drawings on hand this date -i.e., the plan adopted by the
committee- in the Italian renaissance style of architecture, in stone and
iron, will be $3,262,600, and the cost of completing such portions of the
inside for occupation as will accommodate one million of books will be
$2,323,600."
9. The usual and customary schedule of charges and the professional
practice of architects, as prescribed by the American Institute of Architects,
(chartered under the laws of the State of New York, and of which both
claimants are members,) the Western Association of Architects, and other
architectural societies, including the District of Columbia, and by the
profession generally, fixes the rates of cpmpensation and rules governing
the same as follows:
"For full professional services, (including supervision,) 5 per centum
upon the cost of the work.
"The charge for partial service is as follows:
Per "cent.
"Preliminary studies .............................................. 1
"Preliminary studies, general drawings, and specifications ............ 2J
"Preliminary studies, general drawings, specifications and details ..... 3J

350

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

record, and hereinafter considered, is decided adversely to
the United States, it is content that the judgment should be
affirmed.
"For works that cost less than $10,000, or for monumental and decorative work and designs for furniture, a special rate in excess of the above.
"An additional charge to be made for alterations or idditions in contracts or plans, which will be valued in proportion to the additional time
and services employed.
"Necessary travelling expenses to be paid by the client.
"The architect's payments are successively due as his work is completed
in the order of the above classifications.
"Until an actual estimate is received, the charges are based upon the
proposed cost of the works, and the payments are received as instalments
of the entire fee, which is based upon the actual cost."
These are the rates and rules established by the custom and usage of the
profession, and are never deviated from by architects in good standing,
except under exceptional circumstances, and then only by a special and
express contract.
The plans under which the building for the Library of Congress is being
constructed are designed- and intended for a monumental building, within
the meaning of the paragraph of the foregoing schedule which prescribes
additional rates for such plans.
In a number of cases the executive branch of the government has employed architects at the rates prescribed by the foregoing schedule of the
American Institute.
10. The plans prepared and submitted by the claimants, and accepted
and so used by the government in the construction of the building, consisted of "preliminary sketches and general drawings," within the meaning
of the classification in the schedule of the American Institute of Architects,
and were so coniplte and perfect that any competent architect could take
them and construct the contemplated building from them, without the
assistance or advice of the claimants.
For such preliminary studies and general drawings the rate of remuneration prescribed in the schedule set forth in the preceding finding is, with
specifications added, 21 per cent upon the cost or proposed cost of the
work, but, inasmuch as the kind of material and the style of finish for the
Library building had never been flxdd upon by Congress or by any officer
or agent of the government, no specifications were bver prepared by the
claimants.
They consequently were unable to furnish the specifications, and were
relieved from the duty and labor of preparing them. The court finds $3300
to be the reasonable value of the service of preparing specifications for
this building from which the claimants were so relieved -that is to say,
if the claimants are entitled to recover a commission of, 25 per cent on the
cost or proposed cost of the building, the sum of $3300 represents the

SMITHMEYER. v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

The question of the jurisdiction of the Court of Claims in
this case arises oik certain provisions of the act of October 2,
amount which may be deducted for specifications, which they were ready and
willing to furnish, but which they did not, in fact, furnish to the defendants.
11. On the 1st October, 1886i the commission created by the act of
15th April, 1886, appointed the claimant John L. Smithmeyer architect of
the Library building and fixed his compensation at $5000 per annum. On
the 13th N~ovember, 1886, the commission also appointed the claimant Paul
J. Pelz principal draughtsman and fixed his compensation at $3000 per
annum. The appointments were in writing. Mr. Smithmeyer continued
in the service of the defendants as architect of the Library building until
October 3, 1888, when he was removed by the Chief of Engineers. Mr. Pelz
is still employed. The claimants at the time of accepting such appointments did not notify either Congress or the commission that they intended
to charge according to the schedule of the Institute for the plans furnished,
nor did they so notify Congress or the commission before the work began
on the building under the act of 1886, but bad previously notified the chairman of the joint select committee that they intended to charge for the plans.
During the preceding twelve years - that is, say, from October, 187?, to
April 15, 1886-the claimants had given substantially their whole time to
the service of the committees and commissions having charge of the subject of a Library building, as is more particularly set forth in finding 4, and
had also furnished the necessary draughtsmen and clerks and office room. It
has been shown that the cost of draughtsmen, clerks and office rent is usually about 50 per cent of the gross receipts of an architect's business, and
that the cost of plans and specifications in the -office of the supervising
architect of the Treasury is about 2} per cent of the cost of the building;
but it has not been shown what were the expenditures of the claimants
during the twelve years above mentioned further than that their office rent
was .$00 per annuni, and that they ordinarily employed a number of clerks
and draughtsmen whose compensation respectively ranged from $2 a day
to $10 a day.
12. Immediately after the enactment of the act of 8th June, 1880, the
joint select committee therein named selected Edward Clark, Alexander R.
Esty, and the claimant John L. Smithmeyer as the three suitable persons
contemplated by that act to determine whether it was practicable and
beneficial to provide additional library space in the Capitol or preferable to
erect a separate building. The claimant's appointment was in the follo'ing words:
"Booms of the Joint Select Committee on Additional
Accommodationsfor the ribrary of Congress,
Washington, D. C., June 17, 1880.
"Join
L. SmrrmvlE=n, Esq., Washington, D. C.
"Sin: The joint select committee contemplated, by the act of Congress
approved June 8, 1880, (a copy of which you will find.inclosed,) being duly

OCTOBER TERMI, 18-92.
Opinion of the Court.

18S3, 25 Stat. 505, 523, c. 1069, entitled "An act making
appropriations for sundry civil expenses of the government
organized, have directed me to notify you that you have been selected as
one of the ' three persons of suitable skill and attainments' provided for in
said act, to consider the questions therein named.
"In making this communication to you the committee desire to call your
attention to the provisions Qf the first section, relating to the examination
of the Capitol building. This examination will be made in connection with
your associates, Mr. Edward Clark, architect of the Capitol, and Mr. Alexander R. Esty, of Boston.
"It is not deemed necessary further to point out your duty in connection
with the first section of said act, except to call your attention to the last
sentence of the same. You will observe that provision is there made for a
comparative examination and estimate of the advantages between library
accommodations connected with the Capitol and the erection of a separate
building for that purpose.
"The object of the act is to empower ' three persons of suitable skill and
attainments' on the subject of architecture to determine whether it is
' practicable and beneficial' to provide additional accommodations for the
Library in connection with the Capitol!building or whether it is preferable
to go elsewhere and erect a separate building. If you and your associates
find adversely to the idea of building on the present Capitol, then the committee desire you and each of you to submit pldns, specifications and estimates for a building at some eligible-point in the city disconnected from
the Capitol. In doing this the committee would advise that what is known
as Judiciary Square, and also the ground east of the present Capitol ground,
be taken into consideration; but in designating these points the committee
4do not intend to be understood as excluding from your consideration other
eligible sites that may occur to you.
"If a new building should be decided on, it is the judgment of the committee that it should be not less than four hundred and fifty (450) feet in
length and three hundred (300) feet in width; that it should be constructed
of material as durable as the two wings of the Capitol; and that the interior should be brick, iron or other material as nearly fire-proof as possible. As to the interior arrangement and the practicability of its future
extension and improvement, it is the desire of the committee that you consult with the Librarian of Congress.
"It is proper in this connection to.call your attention especially to that
part of section 1 which looks to the improvement of the ' legislative halls,'
' the convenience of communication between them,' ' their better ventilation, light and exposure to the open air.' That subject'you will consider in
connection, however, with the primary purpose of this legislation, which is
to provide a -structure for the better accommodation of the Library of
Congress and for its future wants.
"The committee earnestly hope that you and your associates will be

S31ITITEYER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

for the fiscal year ending June thirtieth, eighteen hundred'
and eighty-nine, and for other purposes," referred to in find,
ing 7,which read as follows:
able to meet at an early day and proceed with the duties pointed out in this
act. They hope to receive a prelininary report from you, if possible, as
early as the 1st of October next, and it is their expectation that they will
have such reports from you as will enable them to report to Congress upon
its meeting in December next.
"The committee have designated Mr. Edward Clark, Architect of the
Capitol, to act as chairman of the board when in consultation.
"Very respectfully, yours, etc.,

D. W. Voonmnrs,
11Chairman."

After receiving such appointment the claimant Smithmeyer entered upon
and performed the duties therein indicated, both with regard to the adaptation of the Capitol to the purposes of a library and with regard to a separate building. In the discharge of these duties he produced, at the request
of the joint select committee in 1880, a plan or plans far the alteration and
enlargement of the Capitol and a plan for a building to be erected on Judiciary Square, and likewise the plan or plans described in finding.4, subdivision 8, for a separate building. The latter plan or plans had inscribed
upon them the name of Smithmeyer & 13elz, the claimants' firm-name, and
were prepared by the firm and t its cost, but were delivered to the committee by the claimant Smithmeyer, and the plan so delivered was the same
adopted by and referred to in the act 15th April, 1886, as "the plan submitted to the'J6int Select Committee on Additional Accommodations for
the Library of Congress by John L. Smithmeyer." It was reported to Congress by the committee on the 14th January, 1881, restudied and greatly
-improved by the clainants, and was afterward modified at the request of
the committee, as set fprth in paragraph (10) of finding 4.
No express contract or agreement was bntered into by the committee
and the claimant Smithmeyer, determining his compensation for his services
nerally or for preparing these specific plans; neither was any contract
-Thateverentered into between the committee and the firm of Smithmeyer
& Pelz.
13. The following statement sets forth all the payments made by the
defendants to the claimants in and about the matter of preparing plans for
a building for a Congressional Library, including a plan for the extension
of the Capitol. With the exception of the first item of $1500, all the payments were made to Smithmeyer alone for his individual services under the
provisions of the act of, June 8, 1880.
VOL. cxLvn-23

354

OCTOBER TERM, '1892.
Opinion of the Court.

"For the building for the Library of Congress, as herein
provided for, and for each- and every purpose connected thereStatement of Payments.
From the $5000 appropriation of March 3, 1873, "for a plan for a new
,building for a Library of Congress." '(17 Stat. 513:)
On December 29, 1873, "for one set of designs for a new building for the Library of Congress, the amount of the first
. 61500 00
premium "...............................................
8,
act
of
June
by
the
made
of
$8000
the
appropriation
From
1880, 21 Stat. 165, and the act of March 3, 1881, (Ib. 424,) to
be exl~ended by the joint select committee, created by said act
of June 8, 1880, for the purpose therein mentioned:
On August 10,1880, "for services rendered the joint select committee to provide additional accommodations for the Library
600 00
of Congress .............................................
On October 23, 1880, "for services rendered and drawings sub500 00
mitted 'for said committee ..............................
-,
-,""
for draughts of plans, etc., for library, buildOn 802 00
ing" .....................................................
On February 26, 1881, "for ground plans, elevations and perspective drawings of the Capitol building as illustrating
650 00
the preliminary report on the subject of extending it " ....
650 00
On March 30, 1881, for "professional services rendered" ......
500 00
On November 2, 1881, for" labor on plans, sections, etc."......
400 00
On February 28, 1882, for" services rendered"................
esOn June 29, 1882, for "professional services rendered -i.e.,
00
timates, drawings, etc., etc.".........................$500
800 00
On August 23, 1882, for "professional services up to date" ....
On January 20, 1883, for "serices rendered as professional ex955 00
pert" ........ ...........................................
On January 4, 1883, for "drawings, photographs, copies of plans
and books purchased from C. Pulman, Esq., custodian of
40 88
..................................
British Museum ".
Total as above ...................................

$7897 88

14. The claimants have not submitted any demand.to the Secretary of
the Interior, under the provisions of the act of October 2, 1888, above cited,
for adjustment and determination; nor have they, or either of them, made
any claim to the executive department in regard to any matter alleged in
their petition looking to the payment of the fees or compensation demanded
III this suit.
15. Since October, 1886, the Library building has been and still is In
process of construction according to the plan designated by the act 15th

SMITHMEYER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

with, including the cost of all professional and other personal
services that the Chief of Engineers of the Army may deem
-of April, 1886, modified by the act 2d March, 1889, As is more fully set
forth in the preceding findings.
16. The court finds the fair and reasonable value of the claimants' services in preparing the plans delivered to the joint select committee and
reported to Congress on the 14th of January, 1881, and which are now being
used by the government in the construction of a Library building, to be
(e48,00O) forty-eight thousand dollars.
Additional Findings of Fact.
1. From the passage of the act of 15th April, 1886, until October 1, 1886,
neither. of the claimants were in any way in the employ of the defendants.
At this time the claimant Smithmeyer was' employed. The following
letter shows the extent of his employment:
"WASHnGTON, D. C. .April 19, 1887.
nR,Esq.
" DEAR Sm: At a meeting of the commission held on Friday, October 1,
1886, you were appointed architect of the building for the accommodation
of [the Library of?] Congress, at a compensation of $5000 per annum.
"Jomx L. Smrnn

"lRespectfully,

L. Q. C. LA=An.

"s,8ect. of the Interior and Chairman Cong. Library Commission."
Sunsequently, and on the 13th day of November, 1886, the commission
employed tue claimant Pelz as principal draughtsman of the building, and
dgreed to pay him $3000 per annum.
The claimants were not employed as a firm, and neither had any Interest
in the employment of the other, or in the services to be rendered by the.
other, or in the compensation to be paid for such services. Their employment related solely to service to be rendered by them in the future construction of the building, and no other.
2. Subsequently to the act of April 15, 1886, the defendants paid for the
services of draughtsmen, computers, modellers and experts of every kind, and
also all expense for stationery, instruments, clerk-hire, office rent, fuel, gas
and all other necessary expense -which might be connected with an architect's office, and none of such service or expense was paid by claimants or
either of them. From April, 1886, to the 30th .of April, 1888, the commissioners paid for such expense the sum of $33,803.29.
3. The acceptance of the salaries by Smithmeyer and by Pelz were the
only acts, as far as appears, done by them or either of them, or agreements,
express or implied, between them and the defendants or the commissioners,
'relative to their compensation as architects either for Preparing the plans
or superintending the work.
4. In determining the value of claimants' services in preparing the plans
accepted by the defendants, and adopted by them, and used by them in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

necessary for the work and shall specially order, five hundred
thousand dollars.

"This appropriation and all appropriations hereafter made,
and all sums available from appropriations heretofore made
for this purpose, shall be expended under the direction and
supervision of the Chief of Engineers of the Army, who shall
have the control and management of all said work and the
employment of all persons connected therewith. And all contracts for the construction of said building, or any' part thereof,
shall be made by the Chief of Engineers of the Army, and so
much of the act entitled 'An act authorizing the construction
of a building for the accommodation of the Congressional
Library,' approved April fifteenth, eighteen hundred and
eighty-six, as -requires the construction of said building substantially according to the plan submitted to the Joint Select
Committee on Additional Accommodations for the Library of
Congress, by John L. Smithmeyer, and so much of the first
section as provides for a commission, together with the eighth
section of said act, be, and the same are hereby, repealed, and
the duties of said commission under said act are hereby devolved upon the Chief of Engineers of the Army, who shall.
annually report to Congress at the commencement of each
session a detailed-statement of all the proceedings under the
provisions of this act, and hereafter, until otherwise ordered
by Congress, no work shall be done in the construction of said
Library except such as is herein provided for, and all contracts
for work or materials not necessary for the execution f the
work contemplated herein are hereby rescinded. And all loss
or damage occasioned thereby or arising under said contracts,
together with the value of the plan for a Library Building
construction oi the Library building, no allowance has been made for ser-,
vice rendered after the 14th day of January, 1881, in restudying and improving such plans or in preparing the new designs for the exterior of said
building s set forth in paragraph (10) of finding 4, and in the last paragraph of finding-12.
5. In fixing .48,000 as the fair and reasonable value of claimants'
services in preparing Said plans, accepted and :adopted by the defendant,
no allowance has been made for the expenses of the architdct's office.

SMITIHIEYER v. 'UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

submitted to the Joint Select Committee on Additional
Accommodations for the Library of Congress by John L.
Smithmeyer, in the Italian Renaissance style of Architecture,
may be adjusted and determined by the Secretary of the
Interior, to be paid out of the sums heretofore or hereby
appropriated: Provided, That before any further contracts
are let for the construction of said building general plans for
the entire construction thereof shall be prepared, by or under
the direction of the Chief of Engineers of the Army, which
plans shall be subject to the inspection and approval of the
Secretary of War. and the Secretary of the Interior: And
providedfu'ther,That the total cost of said building shall not
exceed four million dollars exclusive of appropriations heretofore made."
The particular provision, referred to, is that "all loss or
damage occasioned thereby, or arising under said contracts,
together with the value of the plan for a Library Building submitted to the Joint Select Committee on Additional Accommodations for the Library of Congress by John L. Smithmeyer,
in the Italian Renaissance style of Architecture may be adjusted and determined by the Secretary of the Interior, to be
paid out of the sums heretofore or hereby appropriated."
It is contended for the United States that the word "may"
in such provision means "shall;" that the Secretary of the
Interior was thus constituted a special tribunal to adjust and
determine the equitable right of -Mr.Smithmeyer for the value
of his plan, that the Secretary of the Interior never had an
opportunity to make payment for the plan, as, according to
finding 14, the claimants did not submit any-demand to him
for an adjustment and determination under the act of October
2, 1888; and that neither the Court of Claims nor this court
has any jurisdiction in the premises. It is contended that the
act referred the claim to the Secretary of the Interior as a
special tribunal, with exclusive power, not only to make an
award, but also to pay its aniount.
But this right of action accrued in 1886, and the Court of
Claims from that time had full jurisdiction over it, under its
general jurisdiction. The act of October 2, 1888, did not 're-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

peal, either expressly or by implication, the general jurisdictional act of the Court of Claims, to the 'extent of this case.

The purport of the act of 1888 seems to have been to provide
a method of adjusting the claim, if the claimants so desired,
without a suit. The claimants had a right to the additional
method, but they could also waive its benefit. The general
jurisdiction of the Court of Claims and the additional method
of adjustment can both of them well stand together. De Groot
v. United States, 5 Wall. 419, 432; Gordon v. VJited States, 7
Wall. 188; Henderson's Tobacco, 11 Wall. 652; Shutte v.
Thompson, 15 Wall. 151; Bechtel v. United States, 101 U. S.
597; Campbell v. United States, 107 U. S. 407; Chew Ileong
v. United States, 112 U. S. 536; United States v. Great Falls
.Affg. Co., 112 U. S. 645; United States v. Harmon, ante, 268.
The contention on the part of the claimants is that the
value of their plans or services ought not to be estimated acrmeruit,but that they ought to
cording to the rule of quantum
be paid according to the rates established by the general usage
of the architects' profession throughout the United States.- On
the evidence the Court of Claims, by finding 16, fdund the
fair and reasonable value of the services of the claimants, in
preparing the plans delivered to the Joint Select Committee,
reported to Congress on-January 14, 1881, and which are now
used by the government in the construction of the Library
building, to be $48,000. This was a finding on the evidence;
the evidence is not before us; and without it, we are asked, on
findings of facts as to work done in connection with plans
which were not adopted, to reverse the judgment of the Court
of Claims as to the reasonable value of the plans which were
adopLed, and for which alone the right to compensation exists.
It appears from the findings of the Court of Claims that
no contract, express or implied, was entered into with the
claimants, or either of them, by any commission, committee or
public officer, empowered to adopt plans or employ architects,
or to enter upon the construction of the building, until the act
of April 15, 1886, c. 50, 24 Stat. 12, referred to in finding 8,
was passed, which adopted the plan of ,1 jithmeyer. That act
did not constitute a contract, but only clared the intention

. SMITTM YER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

of the legislature. It might have been rescinded at any subsequent time before the claimants changed. their position and
entered upon the performance of the proposed work, without
either party becoming liable to the other. Tilley v. County
of Cook, 103 U. S. 155, 160, 161. From 1873 to 1886, the
services of the claimants were of an advisory, nature, for compensation, and were such services as are mentioned in the
statement of, payments in finding 13 as "professional seryices."
As found in finding 11, the commission created by the act
of April 15, 1886, 24 Stat. 12, c. 50, appointed Smithmeyer,
on October 1, 1886, to be architect of the Library building, at
a compensation of $5000 per annum; and on NoVember 13,
.1886, it also appointed the claimant PelN to be principal
draughtsman, at a compensation of $3000 per annum, both
appointments being in writing. Mr. Smitbmeyer continued
in the service of the United States, as architect of the building, until October 3, 1888, a period of over two years. It is
further found in finding 11, that the claimants, at the time of
accepting those appointments, did not notify Congress or the
commission that they intended to charge, according to the
schedule of the American Institute of Architects, for the plans
furnished, nor did they so notify Congress or the commission
before the work began on the building under the act of April
15, 1886, although they had previously notified the chairman
of the Joint Select Committee that they intended to charge
for the plans.
The acceptance by the claimants of employment at an agreed
compensation per annum, before either party had acted on
the faith of a different understanding, leaves no room for implying any other contract or usage. There was an express
contract by which the claimants, as architects, were under the
duty of furnishing plans at the agreed compensation.
In the opinion given by the Court of Claims, it is stated
that the court was of opinion that the acts of the parties
indicate -that the services of the claimants should be esti"ted according to the rule of quzntum meruit, and not
-a.ccrfit-'the schedule of charges of the American Institute of Architects; that, instead of a percentage, the United

