OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

TAYLOR v. BROWIN.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF THE TERRITORY OF
DAKOTA.
No. 112. Argued and submitted January 9, 1893. -Decided March 6, 1893.

In computing the time during which the alienation of public land acquired
by an Indian under the provlsion's of § 16 of the act of March 3, 1875, c.
131, (18 Stat. 402,) is forbidden, the day of the issue of the patent should
be included.

THIS was an action commenced by Taylor and Bidwell
against Brown and Young, impleaded with others, in the
District Court of .the Fourth Judicial District of the Territory of Dakota, within and for the county of Moody, July 17,
1885, and in which an amended complaint was served March
1, 1886. The prayer of the complaint was that certain deeds
should be adjudged and declared clouds on the plaViff's
alleged title to one .hundred and sixty acres of land therein
described, and be decreed null and void and of no effect, and
that the plaintiffs should be decreed to he the legal owners of
the property Young and Brown were the only parties served.
They answered separately, requested separate findings in
their favor, and the court found separately, as to and against
each of them, whereupon each moved for a new trial, and,
their motions being overruled and judgment -being entered
against them, took separate appeals to the Supreme Court of
the Territory
The cause was tried by the District Court upon the admissions in the pleadings and the evidence adduced, and thereupon the court found, in brief, that on June 15, 1880, a patent
issued to one Thomas K. West for the one hundred and sixty
acres in question, and was duly recorded October 7, 1881,
that on January 25, 1881, the patentee and his wife conveyed
to defendant Young forty acres of the tract for valuable consideration, the receipt of which was acknowledged, and that
Young entered into actual possession of the forty acres on

TAYLOR v. BROWN.
Statement of the. Case.

that date, and had ever since occupied, used and cultivated
the laud, using and. claiming the same in his own right
adversely to all the world and especially as against the plaintiffs, and had erected and made valuable, permanent improvements thereon.
That on August 13, 1881, West conveyed to his wife eighty
acres of the tract by deed bearing that date, acknowledging
the receipt of a valuable consideration, and recorded October
7, 1881, that on August 15, 1881, Mrs. West conveyed to
defendant Brown the eighty acres-in consideration -of the sum
of $300, paid to her on that date? that Brown entered into
actual possession of the eighty acres August 15, 1881, claiming it in his own right and title thereto under the deed to him,
and occupied, used and cultivated the land, using and claiming the same in his own right from that date adversely
That on June 15, 1885, by deed recorded that day, West
and his wife conveyed the whole one hundred and sixty -acres
to Young for a valuable consideration, the receipt of which
was acknowledged, and on the last-mentioned date, Young
entered into actual possession of the premises, claiming them
in his own right and title thereto, and that since that date
Young occupied and used the land, and had been in actual
,possession of the whole of it, using and claiming the same
adversely
That West and his wife on June 17, 1885, and from August
15, 1881, were not in the actual possession or otherwise of
either the forty or the eighty acres, that West and his wife,
on June 17, 1885, conveyed the land to 0. E. Thayer, who, on
June 19, conveyed the one hundred and twenty acres to the
plaintiffs, that neither said Thayer nor his wife were on June
19, or at any other time prior to or since that date, and at the
time of the delivery of the deed to the plaintiffs, in actual
possession of the forty acres, nor were they in actual possession
.of any part of the said tract.
That Thomas K. West was a Sioux Indian who had arrived
at the age of twenty-one years and who had abandoned his
tribal relations and made satisfactory proof of such abandonment by taking an oath of allegiance 'to the United States
VOL. cxLVI-41

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Counsel for Appellees.

government, and who was entitled, under sections 15 and 16
of chapter 131 of the Laws of the United States, passed March
3, 1875, entitled "An act making appropriations to -supply
deficiencies in the appropriations for fiscal years ending June
30, 1875, and prior years, and for other purposes," to enter a
homestead under the laws of the United States, and had entered said land under said laws and duly proved up on the
-same and received the patent referred to.
Phat the deeds to Young, Alfred Brown, and Sophia West,
were made within five years from the date of the patent to
West by the United States, that the adverse possession of
Brown and Young was entirely founded on conveyances that
were absolutely null and void, and that the possession of
Brown and Young of the premises and the nprovements
made thereon were made with full notice that West was an
Indian, as previously found.
The court stated the following conclusions of law"
"I. That the land described in said patent was absolutely
inalienable prior to the 16th day of June, 1885, that the
deeds from Thomas K. West to Timothy Young, of January
25, 1881, June 15, 1885, and from Thomas K. West to Sophia
West, of August 13, 1881, and from Sophia West to Alfred
Brown, of August 15, 1881, are null and void.
"II.

That the deed from Thomas K. West and Sophia

West to C. E. Thayer on the 17th day of June, 1885, and the
deed from C. E. Thayer and wife to S. S. Taylor and S. A.
Bidwell are good and valid conveyances, and conveyed the
title of said premises to the said plaintiffs.
"Il. what the plaintiffs, S. S. Taylor and S. A. Bidwell,
are the wners of said premises."
The Supreme Court of the Territory reversed the judgment
of the District Court and remanded the cause with directions
to dismiss the plaintiffs' complaint. The opinion will be found
in 5 Dakota, 335.
.Ahr S. S. Burdett and .r C'. H. Tnsor, for appellants,
submitted on 2f?, Winsor's brief.
-Mr Robert ,J Gamble for appellees.

TAYLOR v. BROWIN.
Opinibn of the Court.

MRt. CHIEF JUSTICE FuLLER, after stating the case, delivered

the opinion of the court
By section 15 of the act of March 3, 1875) 18 Stat. 402, c.
131, any Indian born in the United States, who was the head
of a family or who had arrived at the age of twenty-one
years, and who had abandoned or milght thereafter abandon
hs tribal relations, was, on making satisfactory proof of such
abandonment, entitled to the benefits of the act entitled "An
act to secure homesteads to actual settlers on the public domain," approved May 20, 1862, and acts amendatory thereof,
"pvrovded, however, that the title to lands acquired by any
Indian by virtue hereof shall not be subject to alienation or
incumbrance, either by voluntary conveyance or the judgment,
decree or order of any court, and shall be and remain inalienable for a period of five years from the date of the patent
issued therefor."
By section 16, in all cases in which Indians had theretofore
entered public land under the homestead law and proceeded
in accordance with the regulations of the Land Office, the
conditions prescribed by law having been complied with, the
entries so. allowed were confirmed and patents directed to
issue thereon, "subject, however, to the restrictions and limitations colitained in the fifteenth section of this act in regard
to alienation and incumbrance."
West came within the sixteenth section, and obtained his
patent accordingly
The question, upon the disposition of.which the decision of
the Supreme Court of the Territory was based, and which we
are first to consider, arises upon the proper construction of theproviso to the fifteenth section. The restraint on alienation
was to continue for a period of five years. Was it the intention that the computation of time §hould include the day of
the issue of the patent 2 If so, the deed of June 15, 1885, was
not invalid, and the decree must be affirmed.
In _Matthews v. Zane, 7 Wheat. 164, 211, Mr. Chief Justice
Marshall remarked that it was the known rule "that a statute
for the commencement of which no time is fixed, commences

OCTOBER TERMI, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

from its date," and in Arnold v United States, 9 Cratcb,
104, 120, in which it was held that a statute providing that
it should take effect "from and after the passing of thi§ act"
took effect immediately, Mr. Justice. Story said that "it is a
general rule that when the computation is to be made from
an act done, the day on which the act is done is to be included."
\ But this cannot be said to be a universal rule either in England or this country
Webb v. Fatrmaner,3 K. & W 173,
1?obnson, v WVaddington, 13 Q. B. 753, Sheets v Selden, 2
Wall. 177, Calvert v Trilliams, 34: Maryland, 672, Parknsom
v. Brandenburg, 35 Minnesota, 294-, Bems v Leonard, 118
Mass. 502, where many cases are referred to and considered.
In Hatter v Ash, 1 Ld. Raym. 84, it was argued that the
words "from the date," when used to pass an interest, included
the day; aliter, when used by way of computation in matters
of account, and Powell, senior Justice, was of this opinion, but
the other justices expressed none.
The distinction indicated was recognized by the Supreme
Court of Pennsylvania in Lysle v. Williams, 15 S. & IR. 135,
where a scirefacmas was issued on the 22d of Julv, 1823, upon
a bond dated the 22d of July, 1818, and payable in five years
from the date, and the court held that, as upon the execution of
the bond an immediate interest passed to the plaintiff, the first
day should be included in the five years, and that the scare
faczas was properly issued.
While it is desirable that there should be a fixed and certain
rule upon this subject, it must be conceded that the rule which
excludes the terminu8 a quo is not absolute, but that it may
be included when necessary to give effect to the obvious
intention.
This was the view entertained by Lord Mansfield who ruled
in Pugh v Duke of Leeds, 2 Cowp. 714, that "the sense of
the word 'from' must always depend upon the context and
subject-matter, whether it shall be construed inclusive or exclusive of the termsnus a quo."
In Lester v. Garland,15 Yes. 248, it was held by Sir William Grant that, in computing time from an act or event, no

TAYLOR v. BROWN.
Opimon of the Court.

general rule of inclusion or exclusion should be laid down,
that it depended on the reason of the thing according to the
circumstances.
In Griffltk v Bogert, 18 How 158, 163, the law of M issourt
allowed the lands of a deceased debtor to be sold under execution, but prohibited it from being done until after the expiration of eighteen months from the date of the letters of
administration upon his estate. The case involved a sale
which took place on the first of May, 1821, the letters of
administration being dated November 1, 1819, and it was held
that the sale was valid as the ternmus a quo should be included. Mr. Justice Grier, speaking for the court, discussed
the vexed question of the inclusion or exclusion of the terminus
a quo with great vigor, and said "It would be tedious and
unprofitable to attempt a review of the very numerous modern
decisions, or to lay down any rules applicable to all cases.
Every case must depend on its own circumstances. Where
the construction of the language of a statute is doubtful, courts
will always prefer that which will confirm rather than destroy
any bonagfde transaction or title. The intention and policy of
the enactment should be sought for and carried out." And,
reasoning upon the case in hand, he added "The object of the
legislature was to give a stay of execution for eighteen months,
in drder that the administrator might have an opportunity of
collecting the assets of the deceased and applying them to the
discharge of his debts. The day on which the letters issue may
be used for this purpose as effectually as any other in the year.
The rights of the creditor to execution are restrained by the act
for the benefit of the debtor's estate. The administrator has
had the number of days allowed to hin by the statute to collect his assets and pay the debts. The construction which
would exclude the day of the date is invoked, not to avoid a
forfeiture or confirm a title, but to destroy one, obtained by
a purchaser in good faith under the sanction of a public judicil sale." And see Dutcler v WTrgkt, 94: U. S. 553.
It may also be observed that, as to the general doctrine that
the law does not allow of fractions of a day, it is settled that
when substantial justice requires it courts may ascertain the

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the. Court.

precige time when a statute is approved or an act done.
Zoutsville v Bank, 104 U S. 469.
The power of free alienation is incident to an estate in fee
simple, but a condition in a grant preventing alienation to a
limited extent or for a certain and reasonable time may be
valid, and the grantee forfeit ins estate by violating it, (1
Prest. Est. 477,) and while such a result does not ensue in
transactions with members of a race of people treated as in
a-state of pupilage and entitled to special protection, (Pwkersng v lomax, 145' U. S. 310, Felix v Patrzck, 145 TI. S.
317, 330,) yet the proviso in question may fairly be held to
have been adopted in view of general principles. If, when
the patent issued, June 15, 1880, West could have conveyed
but for a specific restriction taking effect at the same moment,
then that date should be included in the period of five years
prescribed. The proviso is that the title shall not be subject
to alienation in the various ways described, and shall be and
remain inalienable for a period of five years from the date of
the patent. Possibly the language is susceptible of being
construed to mean that the land should be inalienable on the
day of the issue of the patent and for five years after that
date, two periods of time, but we are of opinion that the more
natural and the true construction is that only one period is
referred to, and that the day the patent issued should not be
excluded. The limitation on alienation was to be and to
remain, that is to say, the land was to be on the first day not
subjedt to alienation, and so to remain until the five years
had expired. The protection of the Indian against the unprovident disposition of his property was fully attained in the
"jadgmiieut of Congress by fixing the period of five years, and
no reason is perceived why any more than that time should
be assumed to have been within the legislative contemplation.
The power to alienate came with the patent and the restriction for the period named was carefully drawn to operate eo
snstanti,that is, to commence in its entirety coincidently with
the possession of the power.
The decree of the Svpreme Court of the Territory ss aifrmed,
and the mandate will wssue to the Supreme Court of South
Dakotaforfurtherproceedings-n conformity to law.

