OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Syllabus.

committing prisoners and witnesses.

But the $5 a day is

given to the marshal for his attendance; and it must be presumed that the hack hire was necessary for the prompt despatch of business and for preventing the escape of prisoners.
We think the item was properly allowable; and that there is
no clear and unequivocal proof of mistake, as against the approval by the Circuit Court, within the principle laid down in
United States v. Jones, 134 U. S. 483, 488.
It is also contended by the counsel for the United States that
the Circuit Court erred in rendering its judgment in favor of
the plaintiff for $1764.12, in the absence of a finding that the
payment of that sum would not exceed the maximum compensation of the plaintiff as United States marshal, and the proper
expenses of his office. But we think that is a matter which
still remains open for adjustment at the Treasury Department.
The Circuit Court, under the discretibn given to it by § 15 of
the act of 1887, c. 359, 24 Stat. 505, "508,awarded to the plaintiff $59.15 costs, "considering the frivolous and vexatious
nature of the objections taken to the greater part" of his
claim. The items *of costs allowed are not objected to, and
do not appear in the record sent up. It must be assumed that
the costs were taxed in accordance with the statute, which
says that the costs "shall include only what is actually incurred for witnesses, and for summoning the same, and feespaid to the clerk of the court."
________

Judgmen ajlrme.

SHOEMAKER v. UNITED STATES.
'E

OR TO THE SUPREMM

COURT

OF THE DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA.

No. 1197. Argued November 28, 29, 1892. -Deelded. January 16, 1893.
Land taken In a city for public parks and squares by authority of law, Is
taken for a public use.
The extent to whichsuch property shall be taken for such use rests wholly
In legislative discretion, subject only to the restraint that just compensation must be made.
The proviso In the Maryland act of cdssion of the District of Columbia, that

SHOEMAKER v. UIITED STATES.
Syllabus.
nothing therein contained should be "so construed to vest in the United
States any right of property in the soil, as to affect the right of individuals therein, otherwise than the same shall or may be transferred by
such individuals to the United States," has no reference to the power of
eminent domain which belongs to the United States as the grantee in'the
Act of cession.
The United States possess full and unlimited jurisdiction, both of a political
and municipal nature, over the District of Columbia.
It is within the constitutional power of Congress, in legislating for the
creation of a commission charged with public duties, to provide that
some members of it shall be appointed by the President, by and with the
advce and consent of the Senate, and that other members of it shall
consist of officers in the service f the United States, who had been appointed by the President and confirmed by the Senate, when the.duties
of the new office are germane to those of the offices already held by the
latter.
Congress may increase the duties of an existing office without rendering it
necessary that the incumbent should be again nominated, confirmed and
appointed.
The approval by the President of the price to be paid by the United States
for private land, condemned for public use in the exercise of the righlr
of eminent domain, is not a judicial act.
An intention expressed by Congress not to go beyon. a ummnamed as
the aggregate, In condemning land for a park in "Cashitgton, is not a
direction to appraisers to keep within any given limit in valuing any
particular piece of pr6perty.
It is competent for the legislature, in providing for the cost of a public
park, to-assess a proportionate part of it upon property specially
benefited.
In condemning lands for a public park, it Is competent for the court, in the
absence of a legislative direction prescribing the form of the oath to be
administered to appraisers, to direct them to take an oath to "faithfully,
justly and impartially appraise the value or values of said parcels of
land, and of the iespective interests therein, to the best of their skill and
judgment."
In determining the values of lands so taken appraisers should exerce
their own judgment, derived from personal knowledge and inspection of
the lands, as well as their knowledge derived from the evidence adduceq
by the parties.
An appellate court will not interfere with the report of commissioners, (or
appraisers',) In such case, to correct the amounts reported, except in case
of gross error showing prejudice, corruption or plain mistake.
If there were any deposits of gold in the land condemned for the Rock
Creek Park in Washington, those deposits were the property of the
United States.
The filing of a map of the land proposed to be taken for the Rock Creek
Park, made under § 3 of the act of September 27,- 1890, 26 Stat. 492, c.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.
1001, was not a finalty, and did not commit the commissioners to taking
all the tracts included in it.
The owners of the tracts condemned for that park are not entitled to Interdst upon the respective sunms assessed as damages for the taking.

UNDEB the title of "A n act authorizing the establishing of a
public phrk in the District of Columbia," an act of Congress
was approved on September 27, 1890, 26 Stat. 492, c. 1001,
directing that a tract of land lying on both sides of Rock
Creek, and within certain limits named in the act, be secured
as thereinafter set out, and be perpetually dedicated and set
apart as a public park or pleasure ground for the benefit and
enjoyment of the people of the United States. The act provided that the whole tract to be selected and condemned should
not exceed two thousand acres, and that the cost thereof
should not be in excess of a certain amount appropriated.
It was provided that the Chief of Engineers of the United
States Army, the Engineer Commissioner of the District of
Columbia, and three citizens to be appointed by the President,
by and with the advice and consent of the Senate, be, and they
were by the act, created a commission (a majority of which
should have pqwer always to act) to select the land for the
said park, of the quantity and within the limits prescribed,
and to have the same surveyed by the assistant to the said
Engineer Commissioner of the District of Columbia in charge
of public highways.
The means to be employed in the ascertainment of the value
of the lands to be selected, and in the acquirement of ownership and possession thereof by the United States, were provided
for in sections 3, 4 and 5 of the act, which were as follows:
"Sc. 3. That the said commission shall cause to be made
an accurate map of said Rock Creek Park, showing the loca-tion, quantity and character of each parcel of private property
to be taken for such purpose, With the names of the respective
owners inscribed thereon, which map shall be filed and recorded in the public records of the District of Columbia, and
from and after the date of filing said map the several tracts
and parcels of land embraced in said Rock Creek Park shall
be held as condemned for public uses, and the title thereof

SHbEXKE

v. UNITED'STATES.

285

'Statement of the Case.

vested in the United-States, subject to the payment of just
compensation, to be determined by said commission, and approved by the President of the United States: Provided,
That such compensation be accepted by the owner or owners
of the several parcels of land.
"That if the said commission shall be unable by agreement
with the respective owners to purchase all of the land so
selected and condemned within thirty days after such condemnation, at the price approved by the President of the United
States, it shall, at the expiration of such period of thirty days,
make application to the S'upreme Court of the District of
Columbia, by petition, at a general or special term,. for an
assessment of the value of such land- as it has been unable to
purchase.
" Said petition shall contain a particular description of the
property selected and condemned with the name of the owner
or owners thereof, if known, and their residences, so far as the
same may be ascertained, together with a copy of the recorded
map of the park; and the said court is hereby authorized and
required, upon such application, without delay, to notify the
owners and occupants of the land, if known, by personal service, and if unknown, by servi6b by publication, and to ascertain and assess the value of the laid so selected and condemned,
by appointing three competent and disinterested commissioners
to appraise the value or values thereof, and to return the appraisement to the court; and when the value or values of such
land are thus ascertained, and the President of the United
States shall decide the same to be reasonable, said value or
values shall be paid to the owner or owners, and the United
States shall be deemed to have a valid title to said land; and
if in any case the owner or owners of any portion of said land
shall refuse or neglect, after the appraisement of the cash vaite
of said lands and improvements, to demand or receive the same
from said court, upon depositing the appraised value in said
court to the credit of such owner or owners, respbctively, the
fee-simple shall in like manner be vested in the United States.
"SEc. 4. That said court may direct the time and manner
in which the possession of the property condemned shall be

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case..

taken or delivered, and may, if necessary,. enforce any order
or issue any process for giviig possession.
5. That no delay in making an assessment of compensation, or in taking possession, shall be occasioned by any
doubt which may arise as to the owte'ship of the property,
or any part thereof, or as to the interests of the respective
owners. In such cases the court shall require a deposit .of
the money allowed as compensation for the whole. property or
i all casey as soon as the said commisthe part in dispute.
sion shall have paid the compensation assessed, or secured its
payment by a deposit of money under the order of the court,
possession of the .property may be 6aken. All proceedings
hereunder shall be in the name of the United States of
America and managed by the commission."
It was made the further duty of the commission, when they,
had ascertained the amount required to be paid for the land,
and for expenses, to assess the same upon the lands, lots and
blocks, situated in said District, specially benefited by reason
of the location and improvement of said park, in proportion to
such benefits to said property-; and it was provided that if
the commission should find that the benefits were not equal to
the cost and expenses of the land obtained for the park, they
should assess each tract specially benefited to the extent of
the benefit thereto. If the proceeds of the assessment exceeded
the cost of the park, the excess was to be used in its improvement, if such excess should not exceed the amount of ten
thousand dollars; any part above that amount to be refunded
ratably. The commission was to give due notice of the time
and place of their meeting for the purpose of making such
assessment for benefits, andall persons interested might appear
and be heard. This assessment being duly made, it became
the duty of the commission to apply to the Supreme Court of
the District of Columbia to have it confirmed. The court
was given power, after notice duly given to all parties in
interest, to hear and determine .all matters connected with
said assessment, and to. revise, correct, amend and confirm
*the same, in whole or in part, or- order a new assessment in
whole or in part, with or without further notice, or on such
"vSEC.

SOEXA)=R v. UNITED STATES.

287

Statement of the Case.

notice as it should prescribe. The act also prescribed the modein which payment of the assessment for benefits should be
made after it Nyas confirmed, and provided for the enforcement
of such payment in the manner employed in the District for
the collection of delinquent taxes. All payments under said
assessment were to be made to the Treasurer of the United
States, and all money so collected might be paid by the
Treasurer, on the order of the commission, to any persons
entitled thereto as compensation for land or services.
To pay the expenses of inquiry, survey, assessment, cost of
lands taken, and all other expenses incidental thereto, the sum
of $1,200,000 was appropriated out of any money in the
Treasury not otherwise 4ppropriated, one-half of' which, as
well as one-half of any sum annuall appropriated and
expended for the maiiitenance and improvement of the park,
was made a charge upon the revenues of the District of
Columbia.
The act finally provided that the public park authorized
and established thereby should be under the joint control of
the Commissioners of said District and the Chief of Engineers
of the United States Army, and it was made their, duty, as
soon as practicable, to render the park fit for the purposes of
its establishment, and to make' and publish such regulations,
as they deemed necessary or proper for the care and management of the same.
On May 20, 1A91, the commission appointed under the provisions of the act filed a petition in the Supreme Court of the
District of Columbia, setting out therein that they had caused
a map to be made of the lands selected by them for the park,
showing tle location, quantity and character of each tract or parcel of property to be taken therefor, and that they had
filed and recorded the map in the public records of said
District on April 16, i891. The petitioners stated that immediately upon the filing of the map they made to each of
the owners of said tracts of land 'an offer to, purchase his
property at a definite sum fixed by.. the commission and
approved by the President of the United States, and that
'they had not been able within the tire limited for such pur-

-288

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

pose to purchase, by agreement with the owners, any of the
lands, except five of the eighty-four tracts selected; and the
petitioners therefore prayed the court for the appointment of
three competent and disinterested commissioners to appraise
\ the land so selected, and to return the appraisement to the
court. The court directed that the petition be filed in general
term, and ordeed that the persbns named as respondents to
te petition,, and all others interested or claiming to be interested in the land described, or in any part thereof, as occupants or otherwise, appear in court on or before June 15,1891,
and show cause why the prayer of the petition should not be
granted, and why the court should not proceed at that time as
directed by the act of Congress. The court further directed
that a copy of this order be served upon such of the named
respondents as should be found in said District at least seven
days before June 15, 1891, and that -a copy thereof be duly
published in the periodical press of the District.
After the petition was filed, Pierce Shoemaker, one of the
respondents thereto, died, and his death being suggested to
the court, Louis P. Shoemaker, Francis D. Shoemaker, Abigail
C. Newman, and Clara A. Newman, heirs at law and devisees
of the said Pierce Shoemaker, deceased, were, on June 2,1891,
made parties respondent in his place and stead.
The said Louis P. Shoemaker and Francis D. Shoemaker,
executors of the last will and testament of the-said Pierce
Shoemaker, deceased, appeared in court June 15, 1891, and
moved that the petition be dismissed. This motion was.based
upon various grounds, each one of which impeached the constitutionality of the said act, and the validity of proceedings
under it. These grounds were, in substance, that two members of the commission were appointed by Congress, and not
by any executive officer or court; that the act provided that
the President should perform a judicial function in participating in the appraisement of the several tracts of lands to be
selected for the park, and in adjudicating upon awards respecting the same; that the approval or disapproval of the said
*appraisement was left to the'President, who was virtually a
party to the condemnation proceedings, and not left to an

SHOEMAKER v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

impartial judicial tribunal to decide upon the queestion of just
compensation for the property; that the amount to be paid
for the property was limited to a fixed sum, regardless of its
adequacy as just compensation therefor; that Congress by the
act attempted to exercise the right of eminent domain within
the District of Columbia for purposes foreign to the needs
and requirements of its exclusive power therein; and that
such exercise was in violation of its compact made with the
State of Maryland upon the cession of territory thereof to the
United States, that nothing contained in the act of cession,
passed by the assembly of Maryland, should "be so construed
to vest in the United States any right of property in the soil,
as to affect the right of individuals therein, otherwise than the
same shall or may be transferred by such individuals to the
United States."
This motion was denied, the court being of opinion that it
was not unconstitutional for the legislature to entrust the performance of particular duties to officials already charged with
duties of the same general description, and that, besides, as
the majority of the commission was em.powered by the law to
act in all cases, the three civilian members might legally discharge the duties of the commission, independently of the two
army officers, if the appointment of the latter was irregular;
that no judicial power was devolved upon the President by
the act, he being only vested with authority either to acquiesce in the judgment of the assessors or to decline on behalf of
the United Stateg to accept .the property, and having no
power to take the property in disregard of their assessment;
that the limitation by the act of the amount to be paid for
said lands was not unconstitutional, as the appraisers were
bound, as. competent and disinterested commissioners, to
return what they believed was the just value of the properties, regardless of any restriction in the act as to the cost
thereof; that the condemnation of land for a public park was
a taking of property for public uses within the meaning of the
Constitution; that no relinquishment of the Federal power of
eminent domain could be deduced from the legislation relating
to the acquisition of'said territory from the State of Maryland
Vol. CXLv-19

290"

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

by the United States; and that the United States could
not have bound itself by any such condition, even though
distinctly set forth in the act of cession. 19 Wash. Law
Rep. 466.
The said respondents thereupon asked leave to file a demurrer to the petition. This being refused, they prayed in open
court the allowance of a writ of error, returnable to this court;
to review the judgment of the general term overruling tho
motion to dismiss the petition. This application was denied
because that judgment was interlocutory. Application wds
then made to one of the justices of this court, and he
denied it.
'The court of the District of Columbia then made an order
appointing three citizens of the District, whom it adjudged to
be competent and disinterested, to appraise the values of the
land selected for the park, with directions to return 'the
appraisement into court, and to perform all other dhtiea
imposed upon them by the act of Congress.
The said respondents, who are the present plaintiffs in
error, then presented to the court of the District a form of
oath which they prayed might be administered to said 4pprais-'
ers, and also certain instructions which they prayed thie court
to give them. The court refused to administer the oath and
to give the instructions proposed by plaintiffs in erkor, and a
different oath was administered and different *stmaictions
given to said appraisers by the court. Exceptions to this
action of the court were filed by plaintiffs in errbr August 1,
1891.
The said appraisers entered upon the disharge of their
* duties. At the hearing before them evidence was offered by
the plaintiffs in error for the purpose o.y'sustaining certain
allegations of the existence of gold in paying quantities in the
tract of land shown on the map as tract No.'39. This 6vidence having been received by t1e appraisers, the United
States moved the court strike it from the record. This motion
was sustained, and the appraisers were directed not to consider
that evidence in making up their award. The court held that
if any deposits of gold existed in said land they were the

SHOETMARER v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

property of the United States; that the State of Maryland
was the owner of all mines of gold or other precious minerals
within its borders, by virtue of its confiscation of the property
of the lord proprietary in 1780, who had never parted with
his title, held under his charter from Charles I, to such mines;
and that the legislature of the State of Maryland, by its act
of cession, transferred its interest in any possible gold mines
in the ceded territory to the United States. During the argument upon that motion the .plaintiffs in error showed the court
that in a resurvev patent granted by the State of Maryland in
1803, under which the plaintiffs in error mediately claim title,
there was no reservation of mines, and contended that, as this
patent was based upon a warrant of resurvey dated May 12,
1800, nine months before Congress assumed jurisdiction in the
District of Columbia, the grantee under it acquired an equitable title to the land patented by virtue of that warrant.
The court held that under the law of Maryland no equitable
title could be created until the return of the certificate of survey to the land office; and that, as the patent did not show
that such certificate was returned to the office, and as the
party obtaining the warrant had, under the law, two years
in which to have the certificate returned, the presumption
would be that it was not returned until after 1801, and that,
therefore, the grantee could take no title whatever under the
patent until its i~sue in 1803. And further, that the State of
Yaryland could" grant no title to lands within the ceded territory after the adt of cession in 1791; and that the proviso
therein with referen&c to, the continuance of the jurisdiction
of the laws of Maryland over persons and property in the
ceded territory, until Congress should provide for the government thereof, applied only to laws affecting private rights,
and did not continue the operation of the land laws of
Maryland -as to public lands owned by the State within that
territory.
The plaintiffs in error then applied to the appraisers, in
November, 1891, for permission to offer newly discovered evidence, relating to the ownership of the alleged gold deposits,
to the end that they might move the court in general term,

292

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

upon the strength of such evidence, to rescind the order directing the appraisers to strike -out of the record the evidence
relating to the existence of golh in the property, and requested
the appraisers to submit their application to the court in
general term for further instructions. This application was
submitted to the court, and the plaintiffs in error, on December'
4, 1891, moved'that the appraisers be instructed to receive the
additional evidence touching the ownership of the alleged gold
deposits in said tract No. 39, which motion was overruled.
The new evidence tended to show that certain lands, which the
court had held to be subject to a reservation of "royal mines"
in a'patent granted by the lord proprietary in 1772, were
covered in part by a patent granted by him in 1760, which did
not contain such. reservation. The plaintiffs in error therefore contended that, though the patent of 1772was original as
to part of the lands described therein, it was, with reference to
the lands granted in 1760, which lands ineluded the said tract
No. 39, a patent of confirmation only, and, as such, did not
create a new estate, but simply recognized or reaffirmed the
former one. The new evidence ftirther tended to show that the
grantee under those patents conveyed his estate to two persons
as tenants in common; that the estate of one of those persons was confiscated as property of a British subject, and was
afterwards, in 1792, conveyed by the State to the mediate
grantor of the plaintiffs in error, without any reservation of
said mines. The court was of opinion that the acceptance of
a new grant from the lord proprietary, such as that described,
necessarily involved the surrender of the original title, and
therefore the patent of 1772' was original as to all the land it
purported to grant or confirm; and that the conveyance made
by the State in 1792 did not purport to convey anything else
than thb property confiscated, which was held subject to the
reservation aforesaid; and that such conveyance made after
1791 could not be operative.
Orr-December 19, 1891,-ihe appraisers submitted their report
anda dopy of the 'proceedings-befo2fdtheof, to he dourt, and
the -court-ordered that the report , together with the testimony
ahd iexfibits, be filed.i_

SHOEMAKER v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

The plaintiffs in error filed their exceptions to this report
,January 4, 1892, said exceptions being based upon the grounds,
among others, that the act of Congress was unconstitutional
and all proceedings based thereon void; that the aggregate of
the values, found by the assessors, of the lands included in .the
park, was in excess of the appropriation made by Congress;
that the actual values of the lands were largely in excess ot
the. values fixed by the appraisers; that the commissioners, in
appraising the values of the property, disregarded certain
parts of the evidence in respect thereto; that the attorney
representing the government did not produce witnesses to impartially testify touching the value of said lands, but, on the
contrary, placed a list of prices fixed by said park commission
in the hands of divers persons proposed to be used as witnesses,
for the purpose of affecting their judgment as to values, and to
guide them in reaching values to correspond with those thus
furnished them.
The plaintiffs in error contended that into the present act
should be read the sundry civil appropriation act of August,
1890, wherein it was. provided that the valuation by appraisers,
to be appointed by the court, of lands to be purchased for the
Government Printing Office, should be confirmed by, the court,
said appropriation act providing that after its pasisge, in all
cases of the taking of property in said District for pu#.c uses,
its provisions respecting such condemnation and appraisement
should operate; and contended that under said appropriation
act the court shoifld review the evidence and proceedings
before the appraisers appointed in the present ifistance, and.
decide whether the values fixed by them afforded just compensation for the property taken.
, These exceptions were overruled, and the report confirmed.
The- constitutional questions involved having been already
passed upon, the court decided, in overruling said exceptions,
that the restriction in the act as to the cost of the lands is not
a restriction upon th e duty of the court to confirm the appraisement, but a restriction upon the government's finally securing
the land, since it cannot be discovered whether or not-the
value is in excess of the appropriation until the court has dis-

291

OCTOBER TERM, ,92.
Statement of the Case.

charged its duty of assessing the land; that, as the evidence
before the appraisers was conflicting, and the result simply an
estimate based upon a comparison of the opposing opinions of
witnesses, it cannot be said that the verdict was contrary to
the evidence; that, as to the objection that lists of values fixed
by the park commission were furnished to witnesses, an expert
witness has a right to qualify himself by comparing his views
\with those of others, and to enlighten his judgment by any
means which conduce to the formation of a reliable opinion, as
after all he simply gives an opinion; that, as a general rule, the
court has no right to review an appraisement simply because
of error of judgment, if such has been manifested, on the part
of the appraisers, as to value, and the said sundry civil appropriations act did not modify the rule; and that, under said appropriations act, the court must confirm the appraisement as a
matter of course if the appraisers had discharged their duty,
and if there were no legal ground for setting their report aside.
The park commission, in consideration of the limitation in
the act with respect to the amount to be paid for the lands,
and the difficulties resulting from an appraisement of values
which, when added to thd am6unt paid for tracts purchased
and for expenses, would exceed -the appropriation, on March
11, 1892, submitted for the inspe6tion of the President a copy
of the map, showing by red lines thereon the boundaries of a
lands first selected,
reduced area within the limits of t
tracts
originally included.
omission,
of
certainformed by the
A letter of the park commission anticipating these difficulties
had been referred to the Attorney General, and in his opinion
thereon, dated April 10, 1891, he stated that if the 'assessed
value of the land'in the court proceedings exceeded the appropriation, the commission might exercise its discretion to pay
for the land they regarded as most desirable.
In conformity with this interpretation of, the act, the park
commission reduced the area of the-Jand proposed to be taken,
to within the limits indicated by red lines on the said map,
and, having shown to the President the cost of the lands
within the reduced area, together With all expenses, requested
him to decide the values appraised "to be reasonable. In

SHOEMAKER v. UNITED STATES.
Statement of the Case.

response to this, by his letter to the park commission, dated
April 13, 1892, the President stated his decision that the

values fixed by the appraisers appointed by the Supreme
Court of said District under the act were reasonable.
The park commission then filed a petition in said court,
April 19, 1892, presenting the decision of the President, and
showing that each and all the owners of said parcels, the
assessed values of which had been so "decided to be reasonable,
had failed and neglected to demand or receive from the court
those values, and that said owners claimed interest on their
respective assessments from the date of the filing of the saidoriginal map. The petitioners therefore prayed the court to
pass an order auth6rizing them to pay into court the assessed
values of all of said parcels of real estate.
On May 2, 1892, the said respondents, now plaintiffs in
error, moved to dismiss the petition on the grounds; among
others, that the assessment of only a part of the lands shown
on the map as originally prepared had been acted upon by
the Prsident ; that no proceedings had been instituted on the
basis o? the reduced area, nor any map filed other than the
original map; that tho park commission having selected lands
for the park, and filed a map thereof, had no power to reduce
the area of the lands; and that for about a half mile along
said :Rock Creek, lands taken for th6 park lie upon only one
side thereof, whereas said act provides that the park is to lie
on both sides of said creek.
The court denied the motion, interpreting the act to express
an absolute intent that there shall be a park on Rock Creek,
and to give authority'to the park commission, after making
their original selection of lands 'for the park, to amend their
work by abandoning such parcels as they were not authorized
by the appropriation to purchase. The operation of the order
denying this motion was suspended, however, so far .as it
might affect the property of the plaintiffs in error, until the
further order of the court.
The plaintiffs in error then pres6nted to the court an
answer to the petition, setting up the same gr6undq of objection thereto as urged by them in their motion to dismiss the

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Counsel for Plaintiffs in Error.

last-named petition, and requested that the answer might be
filed. The court finding no point presented in the answer not
already passed upon, denied the request to have the same filed,
and ordered May 24, 1892, that the United States pay forthwith into the registry of the court the values, without interest
thereon, appraised by the appraising commissioners theretofore
appointed br the court, including the values of the property
of plaintiffs in error.
Upon motion of the park commission; the court, on July 13,
1892, granted an order to show cause why the title in fee
simple to the property of plaintiffs in error should not be declared by ihe court to be vested in the United States. The
plaintiffs in error filed an answer to this rule, reserving therein
all the objections theretofore taken by them during the progress of the said proceedings. The court overruled the objections, and ordered and decreed, July 16, 1892, that the fee
simple title to each- and all of the tracts of land represented
by plaintiffs in error be vefted in the United States, and that
the owners of. said tracts forthwith deliver up possession of
their respective holdings to the park commf~sion or its executive officer. On July 19, 1892, upon application of the United
States, a special auditor was appointed to ascertain and report
to the court the names of the persons respectively entitled to
the appraised values of the tracts of lands selected for said
park, claimed by the plaintiffs in error,'and to report separately upon each tract or road within the boundaries thereof.
: Thereupon plaintiffs in error sued out a writ' of error to
bring this final judgment and the'record in the condemnation
proceedings before this court for review.
In addition to the alleged* errors above indicated, 'the plaintiffs in error now say, first, that the United States bad no right,
afte*r filing the first map of-the land selected, to abandon the
taking of any part of "theland condemned; and, secondly, that
the assessment for benefits- provided for by the act of Congress
is' beyond the power of the government, and that, therefore,
the act is void.
.-Mr. Talmadge -A.,ambert and -Mr. eremia .M. Wilson for
plaintiffs in error.

SHOEMAKER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.
_Yr. 1. Ross Perryand Xrfr. C. C. (ole, (with whom was Xr.
H. T. Taggarton the brief,) for defendants in error.

X2. JusTiE Su.As, after stating the case as above, delivered
the opinion of the court.
In the memory of men now living, a proposition to take
private property, without the consent of its owner, for a public
park, and to assess a'proportionate part of the cost upon real
estate benefited thereby, would have been regarded as a novel
exercise of legislative power.
It is true *that,in the case of many of the older cities and
towns, there were commons or public grounds, but the purpose
of these was not to provide places for exercise and recreation,
but places on which the owners of domestic animals might
pasture them in common, and they were generally laid out as
part of the original plan of the town or city.
It is said, in Johnson's Oyclopoedia, that the Central Park
of New York was the first place deliberately provided for the
inhabitants of any city or town in the United States for exclusive use as a pleasure-ground, for rest and exercise in the
open air. However that may be, there is now scarcely a city
of any considerable size in the entire country that does -not
have, or has not projected, such parks.
The validity of the legislative acts erecting such parks, and
providing. for tlteir cost, has been uiifformly upheld. It will
be sufficient to cite a few of the cases. Brooklyn Park Commissonert v. Armstrong, 45 N. Y. 234; In re Commissioner&
of the Central Palrk, 63 Barb. 282; Owners of Ground v.
.Mayor of Albany,. 15 Wend. 374; Holt v. omeville, 127
Mass. 408; Foster v. Boston Pdrk Commissioners, 131 Mass.
225; also 133 Mass. 321; St. Louis County Court v. 6risuiold,
58 Missouri, 175; -Cook v. South Papk Commissioners, 61 Illinois, 15 ; Kerr v. South Park Commissioners, 117 U. S. 379.
In these and many other cases it -was, either directly or in
effect, held that land taken in a city for public parks and
squares, by authority of law, whether advantageous to the public for recreation, health or business, is talen for a public use.

OCTOBER- -TERM,, 1892.
. Opinion

of the Court.

In the case cited from the Missouri Reports, where the
legislature had authorized the appropriation of land for a
public park for the. benefit of the inhabitants of St. Louis
County, situated in the eastern portion of the county, near to
and outside of the corporate limits of the city of St. Louis,
it was held that this was a public use, notwithstanding the fact
that it would be chiefly beneficial to the inhabitants of the
city, and that the act was not unconstitutional.
The adjudicated cases likewise establish the proposition that
while the courts have power to determine whether the use for
which private property-is authorized by the legislature to be.
taken, is in fact a public use, yet, if this question is decided in
the affirmative, the judicial function is exhausted; that the
extent -to which such property shall be taken for such use rests
wholly in the legislative discretion, subject only to the restraint
that just compensation must be made.
A distinction, however, is attempted in behalf of the plaintiffs in error between the constitutional powers of a State and
those of the United States, in respect to the exercise of the
power of eminent domain, and this distinction-is supposed to
be found in a restriction of such power in the United States to
purposes of political administration; that it must be limited
in its exercise to such objects as fall within the delegated and
expressed enumerated powers conferred by the Constitution
upon the United States, such as areexemplified" by the case of
post-offices,, custom-houses, court-houses, forts, dockyards, etc.
We are not called upon, by the duties of this investigation,
to consider whether the alleged restriction on the power of
eminent domain in the general government, when exercised
within the territory of a State,. does really exist, or the
extent of such restriction, for we are here dealing with an
exercise of the power within the District of Columbia, over
whose territory, the United States possess, not merely the
political authority that belongs to them as respects the States
of the Union, but likewise the power "to exercise exclusive
Zegi2ation A all cases wl atsoever over such District." Constitution Art. I, See. 8, par. 17.- It is contended that, notwithstanding this appafently unlimiteq grant of power, over

SHOEMiAXER v. UNITED STATES.
Qpinioii of the Court.

the District, conferred in the Constitution itself, there was a
limitation on the legislative power of the general government ,
contained in the so-called act of cession by the State of Maryland, (Act of 1791, c. 45, § 2,) a proviso to which is in the
words following: "Provided, that nothing herein contained
shall be so construed to vest in the United States any right of
property in the soil, as to affect the rights of individuals therein,
otherwise than the same shall or may be transferred by such
individuals to the United States." It is said that the acceptance by the United States of the grant constituted a contract
between Maryland and the United States, whereby, in view of
the foregoing language, the land owner was to be protected
against any exercise by the general government of the sovereign power of eminent domain. It is sufficient to say that the
history of the transaction clearly shows that the language used
in the Maryland act referred to such persons as had not joined
in the execution of a certain agreement by which the principal
proprietors of the Maryland portion of the territory undertook
to convey lands for the use of the new city, and their individual rights were thus thought to be secured. The provision
had no reference to -the power of eminent domain, which
belonged to the United States as' the grantee in the act of
cession.
This position, contended for by the" plaintiffs in error, was
raised in the case of C1kesapeake & Ohio CanaZ v. Uzion
Bank, in the Carcuit Court of the U'nited States for the
District of Columbia, and Cranch, C. J., said: "The eighth
objection is that by the Maryland act of cession to the United
States, of this part of ,the District of Columbia, (1791, c. 45,
see. 2,) Congress are restrained from affecting the rights of
individuals to the soil, otherwise than as the same should be
transferred to the United States by such individuals; and it is
contended that this prohibits the United States from taking
privateproperty in this District for public use, and that the
right of sovereignty, which Maryland exercised, was not
transferred. We think it is asufficient answer to this objection to say that the United States do not, by this inquisition
or by the charter to the ,Chesapeake & Ohio Canal Company,

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

claim any right of property in the soil. They only claim to
exercise the power which belongs to every sovereign, to
appropriate, upon just compensation, private property to the
making of a highway, whenever the public good requires it."
4 Cranch, C. C. 75, 80.
But this contention can scarcely have been seriously made
in view of the explicit language of the Maryland act in its
second section: "That all that part of said territory called
Columbia, which lies within the limits of* this State, shall be,
and the same is hereby, acknowledged to be forever ceded
and relinquished to the Congress and government of the
United States, in full and absolute right and exclusive jurisdiction, as well of soil as of persons residiug'or to reside thereon,
pursuant to the tenor and effect of the eighth section of the
first article of the Constitution of government of the United
States." .Matinglyv. .Districtof Columbia, 97 U. S.687, 690;
Gibbo v. Districtof Columbia, 116 U. S.404.
Proceeding upon the conclusion that the United States
possess full and unlimited jurisdiction, both of a political and
municipal nature, over the District of Columbia, w6 .come to a
consideration of certain objections, taken in the court below
and urged here, to the validity of the statute itself and to the
proceedings under it.
There are several features that are pointed to as invalidating
the act. The first is found in the provision appointing two
members of the park commission, and the argument is, that
while Congress may create an office, it cannot appoint the
officer; that the officer can only be appointed by the President
with the approval of the Senate, and that the act itself defines
these park commissioners to be public officers, because it
prescribes that three of them are to be civilians, to be-nominated by the President and confirmed by th.e Senate. This,
it is said, is equivalent to a declaration by Congress -that the
three so sent to the Senate are " officers," because the Constitution provides only for the nomination of "officers" to be
sent to the Senate for confirmation ; and that it hence follows
that the other two are likewise "officers," whose appointment
should have been made by the President and confirmed by

SHOEMAKER v. TJNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

the Senate. As, however, the two persons whose eligibility is
questioned were at the time of the passage of the act and of
their action under it officers of the United States who had
been theretofore appointed by the President and confirmed by
the Senate, we do not think that, because additional duties,
germane to the offices already held by them, were devolved
upon them by the act, it was necessary that they should be
again appointed by the President and confirmed by the
Senate. It cannot be doubted, and it has frequently been the
case, that Congress may increase the power and duties of an
existing office without thereby rendering it necessary that the
incumbent should be again nominated and appointed.
It is true that it may be sometimes difficult to say whether a
given duty, devolved by statute upon a named officer, has
regard to the civil or military service of the United States.
TFales v. TFitney, 114 U. S. 564-, 569; ,Smitk v. TvWitney,. 116
U. S. 167, 1,79, 181. But, in the present case, the duty which
the military officers in question were called upon to perform
cannot fairly be said to have been dissimilar to, or outside of
the sphere of, their official duties.
The second objection made to the validity of the act is
because of certain functions to be performed by the President,
which the objection characterizes as judicial, and hence beyond
his legal powers, and as incompatible with his official duties.
The duties prescribed to the President'are the appointment of
members of the park commission, the approval of the price to
be given for lands where an agreement has been had between
the owners and the commission, and, if an agreement is not
made, and a value is put upon lands by appraisers appointed
under the act, the decision whether such value is reasonable.
The appointment of the commission is plainly an executive
duty, and the approval of the value or price, whether fixed by
agreement or appraisal, canno be said to be a judicial act.
What the President decides is not whether the value is reasonable as respects the property owner, but reasonable as regards
the United States. Similar provisions were contained in the
act of June 25, 1890, c. 613, 26 Stat. 174, condemning land
for a city post-office, and in the act of August 30, 1890, 26

802

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

Stat. 371, 412, c. 837, §§ 2, 3, authorizing the acquisition of
land for the use of the Government Printing Office. The
President has nothing to do with fixing the price; but, after
'that has been done, by agreement or by appraisers, he must
decide whether th6 United States will take the land upon such
terms, or, in other words, whether such value is reasonable.
The validity of the law is further challenged because the
aggregate amount to be expended in the purchase of land for
the park is limited to the amount of $1,200,000. It is said that
this is equivalent to condemning the lands and fixing their
value by arbitrary enactment. But a glance at the act shows
that the roperty holders are not affected by the limitation.
The value of the lands is to be agreed upon, or in the absence
of agreement, is to be found by appraisers to be appointed by
the court. The intention expressed by Congress, not to go
beyond a certain aggregate expenditure, cannot be deemed a
direction to the appraisers to keep within any given limit in
valuing any particular piece of property. It is not unusual for
Congress, in making appropriations for the erection of public
buildings, including the purchase of sites, to name a sum beyond
which expenditure shall not be made, but nobody ever thought
that such a limitation haa anything to do with what the
owners of property should havea right to receive in case proceedings to condemn had to be resorted to.
A further objection is made to the validity of the act by
reason 6f the sixth section, which provides for the assessment
of benefits resulting from "the location and improvement of
said park" upon lands so especially benefited.
The cases heretofore cited to show that the erection of parks
in cities is a public use, in a constitutional sense, were; most of
them, cases in which it was likewise held that it is competent
for the legislature, in providing for the cost of such parks, to
assess a proportionate part of the cost upon property specially
benefited; and We need not repeat the citations.
lNo special request, on the subject of the legal effect of the
provision in, respect to special benefits, seems to have been
made to the court below, and there is no specific assignment
of error as to it.. Nor does it appear that any person having

SHOEMIAKER v. ITITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

property actually assessed for special benefits is a party as
plaintiff in error. We are therefore relieved from any, extended consideration of, this feature of the act.
Certain questions arose during the trial of the case below
which are brought to our attention by bills of exception. One
of these was as to the form of the oath administered to the
appraisers. The defendants asked the court to admifiister an
oath to "appraise the value of the respective interests of all
persons concerned in the land within the Rock Creek Park
upon the whole evidence, guided by the rules of, law as furnished by this court." This the court declined to do, and prescribed an oath to "faithfully, justly and impartially appraise
the value or values of said parcels of land and of the respective
interests therein to the best of their skill and judgment."
As the statute did not prescribe any form for the oath, we
do not perceive that the court exercised its discretion wrongfully in prescribing the form of oath that was used. The purpose of the defendants, in asking for the imposition of an oath
in the form presented by them, would appear to have been to
restrain the appraisers from being influenced by their own
inspection of the lands, and to restrict them to the evidence
or estimates that should be adduced before them. Whether
this be so or not, the oath actually administered did not, as we
understand it, leave the, appraisers "at liberty at their discretion to disregard the evidence altogether and to make their
appraisement without regard to the evidence," but their duty
was to view the lands, hear the evidence, and fix the values.
Complaint is made, in another exception, of instructions
given and refused by the court in instructing the commission.
We shall briefly consider this objection. The instruction given
was as follows: "The commissioners are instructed that they
shall receive no evidence tending to prove the prices actually
paid on sales of property similar to that included in said park,
and so situated as to adjoin it or to be within its immediate
vicinity, when such sales have taken place since the passage of
the act of Congress of the 27th of September, 1890, authorizing said park, but any recent bonajft sales made before the
passage of said act, of lots similarly situated and adapted to

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

similar uses, or recent bonafUe contracts made before the passage of said actwith land owners, for other lands in the vicinity similarly situated, may be considered by the commissioners,
looking at all the circumstances of these sales or contracts in
the determination of the ultimate question of value."
A further instruction was given in the following terms:
"The commissioners are further instructed that they shall be
governed in their inquiry in making their valuations by the
following considerations: What are the lands within the park
limits now worth in cash, or in terms equivalent to cash, in the
market, if a market now exists for such lands? What would
any one needing lands for residence, agriculture or any other
purpose pay for them in cash? They are not at liberty to place
a value upon these lands upon the basis of what one might be
willing to buy them on time for purely speculative purposes,
nor can they consider the value given them by the establishing
the park, and they are to make their valuation without consideration of the fact that a specific amount of money is appropriated by the act of Congress of 27th September, 1890."
The instructions asked for by the plaintiffs in error were as
follows: "The commissioners shall estimate each parcel of
land at its market value, and are instructed that the market
value of the land includes its value for any use to which it
may be put, and all the uses -to which it is adapted, and not
merely the condition in which it is at the present time, and
the use to which it is now applied by the owner;
that if, by reason of its location, its surroundings, its natural
advantages, its artificial improvement or its intrinsic character, it is peculiarly adapted to some particular use-e.g., to
the use of a public park -all, the circumstinces which make
up this adaptability may be shown, and the fact of such
adaptation may be taken into consideration in estimating the
compensation."
The theory of appraisement asked for by the plaintiffs in
error differed from the one adopted by the court chiefly in
two particulars ---first, .it treats the case as if it were one
-before an ordinary jury, whose action is determined by the
evidence adduced; and, second, that the evidence might have

SHOEMAKER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

reference to and include any supposed or speculative value
given to the property taken by reason of the act of Congress
creating the park project: whereas the court regarded the
functions of the appraisers as including their own judgment
and inspection of the lands taken as well as a consideration of
the evidence adduced by the parties.
We approve of the instructions given by the court in both
of these particulars.
The scope of action of th& board of commissioners was
plainly, by the terms of the act and the nature of the inquiry,
not restricted to a mere consideration of the evidence and
allegations of the parties, but included the exercise of those
powers of judgment and observation which led to their selec&
tion as fit persons for such a position.
While the board should be allowed a wide field in which to
extend their investigation, yet it has never been held that they
can go outside of the immediate duty before them, viz., to.appraise the tracts of land proposed to be taken, by receiving evidence of conjectural or speculative values, based upon the anticipated effect of the proceedings under which the condemnation is
had. RYrr v. Souh .ParkCommissioners, 117 U. S. 379, 380.
In connection with this part ot the subject, we may appropriately consider the objection made to the action of the court
below in.declining to review and pass upon the evidence that
had been produced before the commissioners.,
If, as we have said, the court below was right in refusing to
restrict the commissioners to a mere consideration of the evidence adduced, then it would seem to follow that the court
could not be legitimately asked, in the absence of any
exceptions based upon charges of fraud, corruption or plain
mistake on the part of the appraisers, to go into a consideration of the evidence. The court cannot bring into
review before it the various sources and grounds of judgment
upon which the appraisers have proceeded. The' attempt to
do so would transfer the function of finding the values- of the
lands from the appraisers to the court. Such a course would
have presented a much more serious allegation of error than
we -find in the objection as made.
VOL. oxLi-20

OCTOBER TERM 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

The rule on this subject is so well settled that we shall. content ourselves with repeating an apt quotation from Mills on
Eminent Domainy 246, made in the opinion of the court below:
"An appellate -cour$ will not interfere with.the report of commissioners to correct the amount of damages except in cases of
gross error, showing prejudice or corruption. The commissioners
.hear the evidence and frequently make their principal evidence
out of a viewof the premises, and this evidence cannot be carried -upso as-to correct the report as being against the weight
of evidence. Hence, for an error, in the judgment of commissioners in arriving at the amount of damages there can- be no
correction, especially where the evidence is conflicting. Commissioners are not bound by the opinions of experts or by
the apparent weight, of evidence, but may give their own con-,
clusions.".
-.
A number of exceptions were filed to the -action and conduct
of the commissioners, but we think that they raised question3
covered .bythe observations already made, and were properly
disposed of by the court below .
Whether the plaintiffs in error were entitled to be allowed,
in the assessment- of danages,. for the value of prospective
gold mines in tract 39 designated- on the map of the park,
was a-question mooted at the trial, and the action of the court,
in striking out the testimony offered to, show such value, and
in holding that, if there are any deposits of gold -in this
ground, they are the property of the United States, is complained of in the 7th, 8th and 9th assignments of errors. The
history of .the tract in question was gone into at great length,
and various patents of the Province and State of. Maryland
were put in evidence. The court below held that, as by the
grant of Charles I to Lord Baltimore, "all veins, mines and
quarries, as well opened as hidden, already found, or that shall
be found within the regions, islands or limits aforesaid, of
gold, silver, gems and precious stones," passed to the grantee,
he yielding unto the king, his heirs and successors, "the onefifth part of all gold and silver ore which shall happen from
time to time to be found ;" and as 6_e confiscation of the proprietary's title in 1780 vested the same in the State of Mary-

SHOEMAKER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

land, and as also the royalty of one-fifth part of the gold and
silver reserved to the king had also become, by the Revolution,
vested in the State, consequently the United States succeeded
to the State's title by the act of cession of 1791.
The discussion by the court below was so elaborate and
careful that no useful purpose would 'be. served by entering
minutely into the subject in this opinion. It is sufficient to
say that our examination of the evidence contained in the
'record fails to disclose any error iit the ruling of the court
below, respecting the ownership of a supposed gold mine in
tract 39, and we adopt its opinion I as presenting a full and
satisfactory treatment of the question.
I The opinion thus adopted by this court will be found in the record,
pages 168 to 175, and 212 to 218, and is as follows:
By MP.JUSTICE Cox:
We have had under consideration the motion made in this matter by the
petitioners, and that motion is that the court strike out all the evidence
introduced by the defendants Shoemaker and Truesdell relating to the
existence of gold mines in tracts 39 and 42 on the map filed by said petitioners, 6n the ground that if any gold mines exist therein the title thereto
is in the United States.
In order to solve this question we are compelled to go somewhat into the
history of titles in Maryland. All land titles in the District are derived
primarily from Maryland. We all know that'the history of the title to real
estate in Maryland commenced with the charter to Caecilius Calvert, Lord
Baltimore, by Charles I, in the 8th year of his reign. That charter defines
the limits of the province of Maryland and grants and confirms unto the
said Caecilius Calvert, baron of Baltimore, his heirs and assigns, the lands
and waters included within those limits, and goes on to say: "And moreover all veins, mines and quarries, as well opened as hidden, already found
or that shall be found within the region, islands or limits aforesaid of gold,
silver, gems and precious stones, and any other whatsoever, whether they
be of stones or metals or of any other thing or matter whatsoever." They
were granted to him, his heirs and assigns, forever, "to hold of us, our
heirs and snccessors, kingi of England as of our castle of Windsor, in our
county of Berks, in free and common soccage, by fealty only for all services, and not in capite knights service, yielding therefor unto us, ourheirs
and successors, two Indian arrows of those parts to be delivered at the
said rastle of Windsor every year, on Tuesday in Eter
week. and also-the
fifth part of all gold and silver ore, which shall halpen from time to time
to be found within the aforesaid limits."

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

The twelfth and thirteenth assignments allege error in the
court's action hin'confirming the report of the commissioners
The right to mines of gold and silver was considered one of the jura
regalia under the common law of England. In this country we have no
jura regalia. Whoever owns the land owns everything contained in it, including mines, unless they be expressly reserved, and the same law is applicable to a transfer by the Federal'Government.
This matter of the ownership of mines was discussed in the case of
Mloore v. Smaw,,17 Cal. 199, where the court in its opinion as delivered by
the Chief Justice (now Mr. Justice Field), says:
"In the-great case of The Queen v. The Earl of Northumberland, 1
Plowdev, 310, which was argued before the barons of the exchequer and all
the justices of England, it was held by their unanimous judgment ' that by
the law all mines of gold and silver within' the realm, whether they be in the
lands of the Queen or of the subjects, belong to the Queen by prerogative, with the liberty to dig and carry away the ores thereof, and with
other such incidents thereto as are necessary to be used for the getting of
the ore;' and also ' that a mine royal, either of base metal containing gold
or silver or of pure gold and silver only, may, by the grant of the King, be
severed from the Crown, and be granted to another, for it is not al incident inseparable to the Crown, but may be severed from it by apt Ahd precise words.' This case .was decided in 1568, during the reign of Queen
Elizabeth, and continues until this, day an authoritative exposition of the
doctrine of the common law. It is conclusive to the point .that the right to
the mines was not regarded by that law as an incident of sovereignty, but
was regarded as a personal prerogative of the King, which could b alienated at his pleasure."
The title to mines in Maryland was vested by the charter in the lord proprietary, as he was called, subject only to a royalty of one-fifth part of
them in favor of the Crown.
In an exposition by Kilty of "original titles as derived from the proprietary government, and more recently from the State of Maryland," called
the Landholder's Assistant, and which has been referred to by counsel
on both sides in the argument as a work of authority, it appears that the
proprietary formulated from time to time rules and, regulations for the
disposition of his land, called " conditions of. plantations, instructions,
etc." These "conditions of plantations, instructions, etc.," became matter
of record, and, so far as extant among the public records of the State in
the year 1808, are printed in the work referred to, which was issued in that
year, and we're originally carried into effect by some one or other of his
lordship's agents and chief offlc ers in the province, such as his "lieutenant
general," his "chief governor," his "lieutenant governor," and later by the
governorand council, and others charged With the management of land affairs.
Three steps were necessary for transferring the title from the proprietary
to the indivi4ual seeking the patent. The first was a warrant issued by the

SHOEMAKER v. UNITED STATES.

.309

Opinion of the Court.

of appraisement as to a portion of the land embraced .in the
map of the proposed park, leaving other portions of that land
proper officer and which was the authority to the surveyor of the county to
survey and lay off the particular quantity of land. The next step was the
returning by the surveyor of his certificate of survey; and the third step wa§
'the issue of the patent. In the course of time another form of warrant cam6
to be issued, called the wafrant of resurvey. Parties having several contiguous tracts by patent from the land office procured from it 'a warrant of
resurvey authorizing the surveyor to resuivey those tracts, the grounds
assigned for which were the uncertainty of existing bounds aid the desire
of the parties to connect several adjoining tracts in one survey. At first
the privilege of taking in adjoining vacancy over and above the quantities
originally granted did not attach to this kind of warrants, but this subsequently became the main object of these resurveys. On resurveys lands
included in older surveys were excluded and allowance made for the deficiency, either in contiguous vacancy or elsewhere. On the other hand, where
land had been included in surveys beyond the quantity to which the party
was entitled, the excess denominated "surplus land," was claimed by the
proprietary, and, as this surplusage was more common than vacancy, it
gave rise to numbers of warrants, sometimes demanded by parties when
they found that the excess of their grants could not be concealed, and on
other occasions issued by direction of the government where information
of surplusage was obtained. In 1735 it was determined to grant warrants
to th first discoverersenabling them to make resurveys on the lands of
other persons and to become purchasers of the surplusage found therein.
All the patents that were issued by the proprietary'contained an exception of royal mines, and we understand those terms to mean mines of gold
and silver; and the consequence was that they did not pass by these
grants, but remained in the proprietary as his separate property. Notwithstanding the common-law maxim as to the ownership of'property, eujw
est solun, 'ejus est usque ad caelum, there may be two separate owners of the
same land. A man may own the surface of the ground and underneath the
surface may be owned by another person, so that, as the patent issued with
that reservation, the proprietary remained the owner of the mines.
The present owners of the land, deriving title by mesne conveyances
from the patents, claim that they are entitled to the mines, but as the
patentee did not take the mines of gold and silver I do not see how the last
owner has acquired title thereto. There can be no question here of adverse
possession or title bly adverse possession in the position taken by the
claimants to these mines. The then proprietary was divested of his title
by the American Revolution. When the Revolution broke out the British
subjectsleft this country, perhaps for their country's good, and the effect
of the Revolution, I might say with regard to the royalty that had been
reserved by the King, was to transfer it to the State, and the property of
the proprietary was confiscated by an act passed by the State in 1780, c.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

unacted upon. We understand this objection to refer to the
course of the pa'k commissioners in securing the final action
45, of the session of that year. When you contrast this act of confiscation
with the act passed by the Congress of the United States during the late
civil war, it will be seen that the latter -act subjected the property of those
In hostility to the government to seizure and condemnation by judicial proceedings and sale and directed that the proceeds of the sale should be paid
into the Treasury of the jUnited States. If any property was seized and
such legal proceedings were not taken the title never was passed, but
remained in the owner. The act of Maryland is much stricter in its
terms.
After a long recital of grievances committed by England the act of
Maryland declares, "And it is hereby enacted and declared that all property
within this State, debts only excepted, belonging to British subjects shall
be seized and is hereby confiscated to the use of this State." In section 7,
on the assumption that the title was at once vested in the State by the preceding enactments, the act goes on and directs that certain property,
being certain iron works, lands and stock therein mentioned, "shall be, and
are .hereby, appropriated and set apart as a fund for making good and
sinking certain bills of credit which had been emitted by the State." The
act further enacted "that all British property confiscated in virtue of this
act and not thereby appropriated for the redemption of the bills of credit
lately emitted by this State and for the payment of debts shall be subject
to the disposal.of the General Asqembly."
To remove any doubt of the meaning of the law, in c. 49 of the same
sessibn it is enacted that certain commissioners shall be appointed "for
the purpose of preserving all British property seized and confiscated by the
act of the present session," just before referred to, " and that the said
commissioners shall be, and are hereby declared to be, in the full and actual
seisin and possession of all British property seized and confiscated'by the
said act without any office found, entry, or other act to be done, and the
said commissioners shall and may, as soon as may be, appoint proper persons in all cases that they may think necessary to enter into and take possession of any part of. the said pioperty," etc. This was a complete
divesting at once of the title to the property owned by British subjects and
vesting it in the State or in the commissioners to represent the State. Chapter 51 of the same session goes on and appropriates the manors owne'd
by the late lord proprietary in several counties to certain purposes, and it
provides "that this State will forever warrant and secure to the purchasers
and their heirs any British property sold in pursuance of this act and will
jbroiect them in the peaceable possession thereof." This was followed by
another act relating to forfeited estates and sales of reversionary rights
where they were estates tail. There was another act in relation to
claims against forfeited property by individuals,, and section 2 of the latter
act provided for the confiscation of the property of British subjects which

SHOEMAK R v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

of the President upon a portion only of the lands described in
the map as originally filed; and the contention is that the
may be in the possession of others without any proper claim upon them.
All of which shows the scope of the confiscation aud that these acts were
intendeli to reach every piece of property that belonged to British subjects.
This intent runs all through them in fact and it is not necessary to refer to
them in further detail. It is sufficient to say that it was the effort of the
State to appropriate everything, every species of property that belonged
to British subjects, and, of course, that would include mines as well as anything else. Certain grace was given to the owners of the property. They
were allowed a certain time in which to come forward and swear fealty to
the State and in that way save their property.
During the argument an inquiry was made whether the State of Maryland had ever made any reservatioh in her patents, issued since the revolution, of mines and quarries, or whether its legislation was silent on that
subject, from which it might be inferred that she never intended to conflscate that species of property. A partial answer to that inquiry at least
is found in c. 20 of the act of 1783 relating to the sale of confiscated
property, by which it is enacted "that in all sales of the said lands there
shall be.a reservation of one fifth part of all mines of gold or silver
found thereon to this State, which reservation shall be expressed in the
deeds for the said lands." That showed that the subject of the ownership of mines was brought to the attention of the legislature, and that
the State assumed itself to be the owner of the mines as'well as of the
surface of the land, and hence assumed that granting it would pass the
mines unless there was a reservation, and so the State reserved one-fifth
In all mines that might be found on this confiscated property. Now, it
Is true that there is no mention in the legislation of the State in regard
to mines or mineral lands except in connection with the sale of the property, and the only object of any legislation would be directed towards a
sale of the property, and it would have been useless to direct any sale ofmines in the State at that time, which would account for the absence of
leglslhtion on that subject. It wag not suspected it that time that any
mines existed in the State. If there had been any idea that there were
mines existing, there is no room for doubt at all, in view of the spirit
manifested in this legislation in the series of acts running nearly twenty
years, that the State would have been prompt in declaring as forfeitedthe interests of British subjects therein. It appears that nothing was
ever done by the State that amounted to a relinquishment of any rights
that were vested in it by confiscation. If there were any mines, however, they were the property of the State, by another act of the State,
which act assumes that the State was the owner of the same by reason of
the action taken which I have before referred to. In the case that I
lave heretofore cited - Moore v. Smaw, et al. - there was no hesitaion
at all upon the part of the justice, in delivering the opinion of the court,

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

map was a finality, so that if it turned out that the sum prescribed by the act of Congress would not suffice to pay for all
in holding that "at the date of the cession of California to the United
States no minerals of gold or silver had been discovered in the land embraced by the grant' to the Fernandez or by the grant to Alavrada, and
of course no proceedings had been taken by which any individual interest in them was acquired from the government. They constituted, therefore, at that time the property of "the Mexican nation, and by the cession
passed, with all other property of Mexico, within the limits of California
to the United States."
Under the common law of England there was an implied reservation of
mines of gold and silver. Looking at the terms of the cession under the
act of 1791, we will find that they are much stronger than those employed
in the act of cession of property in California to the United States, because
they contained absolute words of cession, while the other does not. The
language is "1that all that part of the said territory called Columbia which
lies within the limits of this State shall be, and the same is hereby, acknowledged to be forever ceded and relinquished to the Congress and Government
of the United States in full and absolute right and exclusive jurisdiction, as
well of soil as of persons residing or to reside thereon, pursuant to the
tenor and effect of the 8th section of the first article of the Constitution of
the Government of the United States." These wordsi of course, are to be
taken distributively. Congress and the government were given full and
absolute right over persons, and they are given the full and absolute right
to the soil and exclusive jurisdiction over both person and soil. It is
rather difficult to see how they could be more specific in conveying whatever rights the State had in the land and soil. The State, of course, could
only transfer to the United States the interest which it had; and to make
the matter as clear as possible and remove doubt a proviso Was added:
"That nothing herein contained shalt be so construed to vest in the United
States any right or property in the soil so as to affect the rights of individuals therein." In other words, the State did not undertake to grant away
the rights of individuals, but did undertake to give to the United States all
her rights, both as to the soil and persons who resided in the part of the
State ceded. The State relinquished all rights which she had and at the
same time provided that the United States should not have any right in.
the soil that would affect the rights of individuals. The history that I have
given of this property excludes all idea that the law did vest in the individuals the right to the mines. Nobody can doubt that the public domain
passed to'Congress, and that it has always acted upon that assumption in
grantiig patents to vacant land that it has sold; and we can see no reason
to doubt that the right of the State to any mines on the land separate frbm
it also passed by this grant of the territory " in full and absoldte right and
exclusive jurisdiction as well of soil, as of persons residing or to reside
thereon."

SHOEMAKER v, UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

the tracts mentioned if the map, or if, for any other reason,
the commissioners should exclude from their final selection
We cannot escape from the conclusion that all public property of the
State of Maryland within the District passed by the cession, and that the
'legislature by its act of cession transferred all interests in any possible
gold mines in this District to the United States.
But a patent was introduced at the argument of a later date from the
State of Maryland to Robert Peter, under whom these present owners claim
title, and that patent has no reservation of any gold or silver mines, and it
was claimed that for this reason whatever interest the State formerly had
in these mines passed by this patent. That patent was dated in 1803. It
will be remembered that the Congress of the United States assumed formal
jurisdiction over this District and provided for its government by the act
of February 27, 1801, three years before the date of this patent. The State
of Maryland, of course, could not convey land that had already been ceded
to the United States. But this paper suggests certain serious inquiries.
The patent was a resurvey patent based upon a warrant dated the 12th day
of May, 1800, which was nine months before the actual assumption of
jurisdiction here by Congress; and the first inquiry is whether that did or
did not give the parties equitable title, being prior to the time that the land
was actually taken possession of under the cession by the Congress of the
United States. That inquiry suggests one or two questions. The first is,
under the law of Maryland did the land laws remain in force in that part of
the territory ceded until the removal of the seat of 'government; and, if so,
did the issuing of this warrant give an inchoate title, an equitable title
which would prevail against the subsequent acquisition of the same legal
title by the United States? The letter of the law seems to be that in all
cases of resurveys no equitable title is created until the certificate of survey is returned to the land office. Upon the issuing of the warrants of
resurvey the party had two years under the law within which to have the
survey returned and pay the fees. It seems to me that no equitable charge
could be laid against this property by reason of the issuing of the warrant
of resurvey. The patent does not say that that survey was returned to the
surveyor's office. The warrant was not issued until 1800 and the patent
was not issued until 1803, and the presumption would, therefore, be that
the certificate of survey was not returned until after 1801, so that thereis
nothing upon the face of this patent which would justify us in saying that
there could be an equitable title acquired through the warrant.
There is a still more important question, and that is whether the State of
Maryland at that period could convey any interest, legal or equitable, In the
property. In the act of 1791, ceding this property to the United States,
there is this proviso: "That the jurisdiction of the laws of this State
over the persons and property of individuals residing within the limits of
the cession aforesaid shall not cease or determine until Congress shall by
law provide for the government thereof under their jurisdiction in manner

6CTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion ,)of the Court.

aiiy tract originally included in the map, the whole proceeding
would be vitiated, and the purpose of the act defeated. We
provided by the article of the Constitution before recited."
Now, this
continues in force the jurisdiction of the laws of the State of Maryland
over.the persons and property of individuals residing therein. To make
that applicable to the present case it would be necessary to have extended
it to the property held by the State; but it seems to me that that extended
no further than to say that the laws that affected private rights should continue in force until proper provision was made by Congress. See what the
consequence would be if another construction had been given to it. The
State of Maryland extended to the Virginia shore, and suppose that after
this cession and before 1801 the State of Maryland had undertaken to cede
to the State of Virginia the whole bed or bottom of the Potomac River, from
its source to its mouth, including that part in the District of Columbia,
doubtless Congress could have had something to say about it after the
cession had been made. We are satisfied, therefore, that the proviso does
not continue in operation the land laws of the State of Maryland, and consequently no title could be derived at the dates of this survey and patent or
at the date when the warrant upon which it was based was taken out. -We
are satisfied that the proviso does not continue in operation the land laws
of the State of Maryland as to the public lands owned by the State within
the said District, and that consequently no title to such lands could be
obtained by patent from the State after the act of 1791.
At a much later time a citizen of Maryland who owned a tract of land in
this District died, making a will disposing of his land and appointing an
executor, and, the executor having declined to act, the chancellor appointed
a trustee to. carry'out-the trusts of the will and the title was declared vested
in that trustee and a sale directed to be made, and the proceedings were-in
accordance with the law of Maryland; but this court had no hesitation in
declaring the whole proceedings null and void for want of jurisdiction
in the chancellor to give the relief asked for.
Upon .the whole case, therefore, we are of the opinion that if there are
Any deposits of gold in this ground they are the property of the United
States. This motion upon the part of the Government is granted.
Subsequently a motion was made to rescind the order, granting the
motion on the part of the government, upon the ground of newly discovered evidence, the nature of which is shown in the second opinion of the
court, taker from pages 212 to 218 of the record.
By M. JusTIcE Cox:
In this matter a motion has been made to rescind the order heretofore
pssed by this court directing the commissioners to disregard the evidence
9s to the deposits of gold in two of the tracts, numbered 39 and 42,
the former being the property of Shoemaker and the latter that of
Truesdell.

SHOEMAKER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

are unable to see the fc~ce of this view. The function of the
map was not to finally commit the commissioners to taking
It will be remembered that the conclusion announced by the-court was
founded upon a patent which was introduced on the part of the Government
and dated in 1772 from the proprietor to one White, by which the royal
mines- that is, the mines of gold and silver- were expressly reserved to
the proprietor, ind our argument was that they were derived through confiscation by the State and on behalf of the United States through the ces*sion of 1791, and if such gold deposits existed there they were the property
of the United States.
The present motion is based upoh additional evidence said to have been
discovered since the first order.
The first patent granted to White affecting the premises was on a resurvey in 1760, in which the land was granted without any reservation of royal
mines, and it is supposed that those claiming under White were allowed
to refer their title back to the first muniments of title, and that it is not
affected or vacated by the subsequent patent of 1772, in which there was.an
express reservation of all royal mines.
As to the cliaracter of the tenure of land in this country since the
revolution it has been said that it has become allodial. That is all true, but
it must be remembered that at the date of the commencement of these tenures, all land in Maryland was held as essentially feudal. In the first place,
the charter of Lord Baltimore conveyed to him this laud, not to be held by
knight's service, but by fealty, and a certain proportion of the precious
metals that might be discovered on the land was reserved, and if Lord
Baltimore granted this land in fee simple afterwards, the grantee held not
of the Crown but of him, the lord proprietor. In this charter it is expressly
stated that, notwithstanding the statute of quia emptores, Lord Baltimore
was authorized to create minor court barons and grant patents to lands to
be held in fee simple, but upon the rendition of such services, customs and
rents as he should think proper, to be laid by him and not by the Crown,
and in all these patents issued by him in fee simple there was that reservation and fealty, at least generally, in place of any other service; so that
relation, as to the tenure by which the land was holden, existed all throAgh
between the lord proprietor and his grantees just as it did under the feudal
system.
Now, to go back to the common law. A lessee for life or years coukl
surrender his estate and take a new estate from the reversioner, Not only
could that be done by the tenant, hut the acceptance of a new estate by the
grantee was Itself a surrender of the old one, and that upon the principle
that the tw6 could not consistently stand together, and the acceptance of
the later one necessarily involved a surrender of the first. For instance,
If a lessee for years should take a lease for his own life or-that of another
man, the acceptance of the latter would necessarily be a surrender of the
first, or If a lessee for forty years accept one for twenty-five years, or if 1

316

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

all the parts included in it, but was to facilitate their proceedings in dealing with the owners. Congress could not have
lessee for life accept a lease for years, say a lease f or twenty years, the
acceptance of the one would involve a surrender of the other.
Upon the question of what shall be considered in law a surrender of
lands, it is said in Sheppard's Touchstone, 301, (edition of 1826, with
notes by Atherly): "If lessee for life, or years, take a new lease of him in
reversion, of the same thing in particular contained in the former lease for
life or years; tlis is surrender in law of the first lease. 14 H 8, 15; Plow.
194; Dyer, 28; Co. 10, 67. As if lessee for his own life, or another's life,
in possession or reversion, take a new lease for years; or a lessee for forty
years takes a new lease for fifty years; the first lease in both these cases is
surrendered. And this rule holdeth, albeit the second lease be for a less
time than the first, as if lessee for life accept a lease for years, or lessee for
twenty years accept a lease for two years. Perk. § 617; Co. 5, 11; Fitz.
Sur. 3; Co. Super Lit. 218; 37 V 6, 17. And albeit the second lease be
avoidable, as being made upon condition, as if lessee for twenty years take
a new lease for twenty years, upon condition that if such a thing happen
the second lease shall be void, and the thing'do after happen; in this case,
both these leases are become void; as where the lessor doth grant the reversion to the lessee upon condition, and after the condition is broken. Or if
the second lease be made by tenant in tail, or the like: as if a man made a
lease for years, of land, and then make a feoffment to another of the land,
and then take back an estate to him and his wife of the land, and then make
a new lease to the lessee for ten years; this is a surrender in law of the first.
lease; but if the second lease be merely void, then it is otherwise; Dyer,
140, 141; Dyer, 272; Dyer, 178, 177; Co. 5,,54, 55; Kely. 70. And therefore,
if the lessor do, by words of covenant only, promise to his lessee that he'
shall have a new lease, and do never actually make it;' this is no surrender
in law. And this rule, as it seems, holdeth also, albeit the second lease be
to the lessee and a stranger or to the lessee and his wife, (Dyer, 140, 141,)
and albeit the second lease be by word only, and the first lease be by deed,
if so be the thing granted by the lease be such a thing as may pass by word
without writing; and albeit the second lease be in another right, as if the
husband have a lease for years in the right of his wife, and then take a new
lease to himself in his own name; and albeit the first lease be to begin presently, audthe second be to begin at a day to come, or e converso; and albeit
there be a mean estate between, as if the land be let to A for years, and
after let to B for years, to begin after the first term, and the assignee of A
doth take a new lease. Dyir, 178; Pasc. 40 El.; Co. Super Lit. 338; Co. 6,
69, 10, 53, 67, 5, 11; Dyer, 280; Dyer, 93, 112. So if one demise land for
ten years to one, and after demise it for ten years to another, to begin at
Michaelmas, and after the first lessee accept a new lease; in all these cases
there is a surrender in law of the first leases. Dyer, 46 ; Co. 2, 60. And if
there be two lessees for life, or years, and one of them take a new lease for

SHOEMAKER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

meant that the validity of the whole 'scheme should depend
upon the accuracy with which the commission should define
years, this is a surrender of his moiety; whereby it doth appear that a
surrender in law may be made of some estates which cannot be surrendered
by a surrender in fait for fortiorest dispositio legis quam hominis. And
hence it is, that a corporation aggregate may take a surrender in law without deed, although it cannot make an express surrender without deed. Co.
6, 69, 10, 67."
Now, technically there was no surrender of such a thing as a fee simple
estate at common law. The owner of the estate might reconvey to his
grantor or the latter's legal succe'ssor and take a new title. There may
have been some particular object in doing that, though, of course, he is
supposed to have taken the whole title in the first instance. I do not know
that there are any examples of this since the days of the Saxons surrendering their estates to William the Conqueror and taking them back again
under the conditions of feudal tenure imposed by him. Still, such a thing
could be done as the owner of a fee simple granting back his title and taking
a new grant if there was any object, in doing it. Under the rules promulgated by the proprietary of Maryland that very thing was permitted-that
is, the practice of surrendering the original grant in fee simple and taking
a new title from the lord proprietor. Under these rules the owner of two
contiguous estates, who might desire to have them resurveyed, might surrender them and take a new title for the two consolidated into one, or the
owner of one estate might surrender his grant and take a new one and of
the contiguous vacant land as a new entirety. The rules above referred to
expressly provided that special warrants might be issued to resurvey two
or more contiguous tracts for the person owning the same and to lay them
out in one entire tract.
The third section of the instructions issued by the proprietary May 5,
1684, to certain persons whom he by commission of that date appefinted a
land council, and by which their powers and authority were defined, reads as
follows: "To anyperson orpersons haveing two or three or more tracts of
land contiguous or adjoining one to the other, you 'may (upon suit made)
grant special warrant to resurvey and lay out the same into one entire tract
with liberty of takeing in or adding thereunto what waste land shall be
found contiguous, and grant pattent for the same upon such conditions ad
tearms as you shall seem meete and reasonable, the person sueing for th
same surrendering up the several former grants thereof to our chancellor or
chancellors for the time being to be vacated upon. record." Now, here is an
express provision that the grantee of the fee simple might surrender his
title to the lord proprietor and take a new title, and for the same reason
that at common law prevailed in reference to leases for life and for years;
but in that case the provision was not ,necessary, because when a new lease
was made it .necessarily involved a surrender of the original title, the original cession. Every one of these grants was.a grant of the entire thing, for

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

in advance the several tracts with whose owners negotiations
were to be had. It seems to us that it was a sufficient and
the whole property right, and when one grant was surrendered a new grant
was taken for additional land. The second grant was made upon an entire
resurvey of the land; the two estates were different and the party could not
hold both estates; they were not consistent, and that is the result in this
very case. Here, in the first place, in 1760; was a patent for six hundred
and eighty-one acres granted upon a warrant of resurvey; upon a resurvey
of said patent in 1772 it was discovered that the land embraced in it was
covered in part by patents of several prior patentees; that it contained portions of several older grants which had been improperly included in it, by the
lines of one of which older grants it was divided into two distinct and
unconnected parts; the surveyor thereupon in his return of the resurvey
included the one of said parts nearest the beginning, which contained one
hundred and fifteen acres, to which he added thirty-six acres of contiguous
vacancy, making in all one hundred and fifty-one acres, and for this the
patent of 1772 was granted. The patent for the rest of the land is not produced before us; but we may assume that there were two several patents
issued, one of which embraced this land, and, of course, it is held under the
conditions imposed by the grant. It won't do to say that that part of the
land embraced in this patent of one hundred and fifty-one acres is held by
the title acquired in 1760, because it is held as a part of a new and entire
tract, and upon different terms, and for a different rental, and therefore
there is an inconsistency in his claiming to hold the land both under the
patent of 1760 and that of 1772. The original entry of six hundred and
eighty-one acres has disappeared entirely, and that land is now held under
two different patents. Any acceptance of a new lease providing different
terms of rental and for a different period involves the surrender of the old
lease, and so acceptance of a new grant from the lord proprietor embracing
part of that which was formerly held under the old grant necessarily
involved a surrender of the original title. The requirement that the
original patentee shall formally surrender the title to be affected by the new
grant has never been rescinded as far as we are advised. In point of fact,
however, the practice has fallen into disuse. It appears from Mr. Kilty's
statement that the practice was simply to enter on this certificate of resurvey an order for the patent to be surrendered, but finally the practice of
surrendering the old certificate or patent seems to -have been abandoned
entirely. N~ow, there were two very good reasons for that: First, it was
not necessary because of the very fact that an acceptance of a new title
Inconsistent with the former operated as a surrender of the former, and,
next, because of the doubt that seems to have been raised of the effect of
the claims in the matter of priority of some other individual who might in
the interim between the old and the new patent have obtained a patent
covering the same land, and as between several parties holding under
different patents the one who held the old title would be regarded as retain.

SHOEMAKER v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

reasonable compliance with the law if the map, as finally
acted upon by the President, showed the location, quantity
Ing whatever interest he acquired under it for the purpose of preserving
priorities; but that is altogether a different question from the relation of
the tenant and the old proprietor, and as between them it seems to be very
plain that the acceptance of a new title or a new grant was conceded to
supersede the old title, and therefore we think that the new title must
stand. There has been something also presented to us to affect our judgment in that particular. As another item of evidence it seems that James
White originally conveyed his estate to Robert Peter and Adam Stewart as
tenants in common. By an act of the assembly of Maryland the property
of all British subjects was confiscated, and -under that act Adam Stewart's
was confiscated, and certain commissioners were appointed to take charge
of the confiscated property and dispose of it. Adam Stewart's interest in
this property was sold by these commissioners. I do not remember the
date of the sale, but that is quite immaterial; somewhere about 1785.
Afterwards, in 1792, the chancellor made a conveyance of the property
which Adam Stewart had thus forfeited to Robert Peter. The deed from the
State to Robert Peter contained no reservation of the mines, and it is claimed
that this last deed from the commissioners to Robert Peter of the interest of
Stewart's vested in Peter all interest in whatever mines might be on the property. An inspection of that instrument will show that it purports to do nothing of the sort. The deed recites that about two hundred and fifty acres of
land, which it does not locate anywhere, the property of Adam Stewart, were
confiscated and sold to Robert Peter, and the deed professes to convey the
property of Adam Stewart and nothing else. The property that-Adam Stewart
had was an undivided moiety in the land and nothing more, and the deed
from the chancellor does not on its face purport to convey anything else
than exactly the property that was owned by Adam Stewart in conjunction
with Robert Peter. The construction of the deed, therefore, does not bear
out the claim, on the part of the present holders; if it did, however, the
result would have to be the same, because the deed from the State was not
made until 1792, after the cession of the District to the United States, and
the cession passed to the United States all the public domain within, the
limits of the District- that is, that part of it that had been a part of the
State of Maryland -because it is said that all of the territory "is hereby
acknbwledged to be forever ceded and relinquished to the Congress and
Government of the United States in full and absolute right and exclusive
jurisdiction, as well of soil as of persons residing or to reside thereon."
If this does not convey all the territory to the United States, then the
United, States never did acquire it, because th.tt is the only cession by which
a conveyance was made of the title to this property to the United States,
and its title to it depends upon this cession and nothing else. • All this property in the District that bad formerly belonged to Maryland was ceded by
this act in 1791, and, that having been done, the State of Maryland could

OCTOBER TERlWM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

and character of the parcels of land to be taken, with the
names of their owners.
The fifteenth and sixteenth assignments, which complain of
the course of the court in adopting and acting upon the decision of the President of the United States approving the appraised values of part only of the la1d selected for the Rock
Creek Park, present the same contention in another form, viz.,
that the court and commissioners were concluded by the enumeration of tracts contained in the map when first prepared,
and call for no iurther remarks.
The fourteenth assignment charges the court with error in
not thereafter have vested in any one the title to any part of the property.
We do not find anything, however, in the circumstances referred to which
affects this case. A point was made in argument which had not been made
before and not founded upon any new facts in reference to the character of
these proceedings before the chancellor upon the application for a repatent.
Robert Peter had a resurvey patent in 1803 signed by the chancellor and
founded upon a warrant of resurvey issued in 1800, about six or eight
months before Congress had passed ifs law assuming jurisdiction over the
District, and we held that that could not pass title to land in the District;
but it Is claimed that the proceedings before the chancellor as-a judge of
the land court was in its nature a judicial proceeding, and that all such
proceedings and the result of them are saved by the act of Congress which
assumed jurisdiction over this District. That is entirely a misconception,
we think, of the act of Congress. All that it says is this: "That in all cases
where judgments or decrees have been obtained or hereafter shall be obtained
on suits now pending in any of the courts of the Commonwealth of Virginia
or of the State of Maryland, where the defendant resides, or has property
within the District of Columbia, it shall be lawful for the. plaintiff in such
cases, upon filing an exemplification of the record and proceedings i'n such
suit with the clerk of the cotirt of the county where the defendant resides
or his property may be found, to sue olt writs of execution thereon returnable to the said court, which shall be proceeded on in the same manner as if
the judgment or decree had originally been obtained in said court." Now,
this applies only to contests between private parties in which execution
may issue and does not provide fcr a proceeding in which the State may be
a party. The language is exclusively applicable to private parties.
We think, therefore, upon the whole, that pone of the new considerations
which have been presented to us shake our former conclusion and the motion
to rescind the order-is overruled. What I have said applies to the Shoemaker tract with more force than to the Truesdell tract, because that is
admitted to be a new grant or, at least, taken under the patent in 1772 and
not derived from a patent in 1760 at all.

SHOEXiAKER v. UNITED STATES.

1321

Opinion of the Court.

refusing to allow interest on the amounts assessed as the values
for lands selected for the Rock Creek Park. The argument
shows that the interest claimed was for the time that elapsed
between the initiation of the proceedings and the payment of
the money into court. The vice of this contention is in the
assumption that the lands were actually condemned and withdrawn from the possession of their owners by the mere filing
of the .map. Interest accrues either by agreement of the
debtor to allow it for the use of money, or, in the nature of
damages, by reason of the failure of the debtor to pay the
principal when due. Of course, neither ground for such a
demand can be found in the present case. No agreement to
pay the interest demanded is pointed to,_and no failure to pay
the amount assessed took place. That amount was not fixed
and ascertained till the confirmation of the report. Then some
of those entitled to the assessments accepted their money, the
plaintiffs in error declined to accept, and the amounts assessed
in their favor were paid into court, which must be deemed
equivalent to payment.
It is true that, by the institution of proceedings to condemn,
the possession and enjoyment by the owner are to some extent
interfered with. He can put no permanent improvements on
the land, nor sell it, except subject to the condemnation proceedings. But the owner was in receipt of, the rents, issues,
and profits during the time occupied in fixing the amount to
which he was entitled, and the inconveniences to which he was
subjected by the delay are presumed to be considered and
allowed for in fixing the amount of the compensation. Such
is the rule laid down in cases of the highest authority. Reid v.
Hanover Branch Railroad,105 Mass. 303 ; Kidder v. Oxford,
116' Mass. 165; Hamersley v. .New, York City, 56 N. Y. 533;
Norri8s v. Philadelphia,70 Penn. St. 332; Chicago v. Palmer,
93 Illinois, 125; Phillips v. South Park Cornmission, 119
Illinois, .626.
These various contentions and objections did not escape the
attention of the court below, but were disposed of, as they
arose in the proceedings, in opinions of great research. and
ability, which appear in the record. We have briefly reviewed
VOL. cxLvII-21

