OCTOBER TERAI, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

103 acknowledginents of sureties on recognizances of defendants in prosecutions brought by the United States, for each of
which acknowledgments plaintiff was entitled by the statutes
of the United States- to receive the sum of twenty-five cents."
This item must also be reduced to a fee of twenty-five cents
for taking a single acknowledgment in each case, since it was
held m the case of Unted States v .Ewng,above cited, p. 146,
2, that the taking of an acknowledgment in a criminal
cause by the accused and his sureties is a single act, for which
only one fee can be charged. If, for any reason, it was necessary to take them separately, that fact should have been made
to appear. The burden of proof was upon the plaintiff.
The judgment of the court must, therefore, be
.RZev&esed, and tke case remanded,with sntructions to reduce
thlwyudgment sn conformity with ths omrnon.

UNITED STATES v. McANDLESS.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 900.

Submitted January9, 1893. -Decided

March 6, 1893.

There is no legal -objection to the same person holding the offices of clerk
and of commissloner of a Circuit Court, and the person so holding them
is entitled to the fees and emoluments of both.
The court disallows the following charges by a clerk of a District Court.
(1) Docket fees where the grand jury returned ",not true bill,"
(2) Docket fees where the case is not finally disposed of;
(8) A charge for miscellaneous fees, entering orders of court, making
copies, certificates, and seals, as being too general,
(4) A charge for issuing commitments to jail in addition to copy of
order of removal, as being too indefinite;
(5) An item for entering orders of court, approving accounts of officers,
dnd copies of certificates and seals.

THIs was a petition by the clerk of the District Court for
the Western District of Pennsylvania for payment of certain
.fees which had been disallowed m the settlement of his

UNITED STATES v. McCANTDLESS.
Opinion of the Court.

accounts by the officers of the Treasury Petitioner averred
the approval of his accounts by the court, and that his whole
compensation, if said fees were paid, would not exceed the.
maximum compensation of $3500. The court directed a
judgment to be entered m his favor for $171.15, and the
United States appealed.
2tr Felix Branngan and .fr Solicitor General for
appellants.
tr Charles 0. Lancaster for appellee.
Mnii. JUsTIcE

BiowN delivered the opimon of the court.

Objection was made to the following items, which will be
considered in their order
1. Sixteen days' attendance on court when in session, at $5
per day, not allowed because same days were charged and
allowed in his accounts as a commissioner of the Circuit
Court "for hearing and deciding on criminal charges." In
the case of Erwin, just decided, (ante, 685,) we held that a.
district attorney was entitled to his per-diem for services
before a commissioner, notwithstanding he was allowed a perdiem for his attendance upon the court on the same day The
reasons for double allowance in this case are much stronger
than m the case of Erwin, since the commissioner acted in a
double capacity, 'first, as clerk of the court, and second, as
a commissioner of the Circuit Court. There is no incompatibility between these offices, and as Congress has never
legislated against their being held by the same person, the
practice has obtained m most of the districts of appointing
the clerk a commissioner. It was held by this court in the
case of United States v Saunders, 120 U. S. 126, that sections
1763, 1761, and 1765 had no application to the case of two
distinct offices, places, or employments, each with its own
compensation and duties, held by one person at the same
time. We think that, within the rule laid down in that case,
there is no legal objection to the same person holding the

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinon of the Court.

offices of clerk and comnussioner, and that the person so
liblding them is entitled to the fees and emoluments of
both.
2. Docket fees in cases where the grand jury returned "not
true bill." This item is disallowed upon the authority of
United States v. Payne, just decided. Ante, 687.
3. Docket fees in cases where trial was had, verdict and
sentence, or jury failed to agree and case was continued. We
think that a docket fee is not taxable until the case is finally
disposed of. In the three clauses of ยง 828, allowing docket
fees, the words" taxing costs and all other services" are used,
indicating that it is not to be allowed until the costs are taxed
and the case is finally disposed of. It does not appear m this
item that the cases in which the jury disagreed -had reached
that point where costs are taxed, or where the cause had been
terminated. This item must, therefore, be reduced by rejecting cases m which the jury disagreed.
4. Miscellaneous fees, entering orders of court, making
copies, certificates and seals. This item was properly ob-.
jected to as too general. While the clerk is unrdoubtedly
entitled to his fees for entering orders of court, he 'is not
entitled to fees for making copies, certificates and seals,
unless such 'copies, certificates and-seals are required by law
or the practice of the department.
' 5. 'The sixth item is for issuing commitments to jail
in
addition to copy of order of removal. This item is also
objectionable on account of its indefiniteness. By Revised
Statutes, ยง 1030, "no writ is necessary to bring into court
ianv prisoner or person in custody, or for remanding hn from
tne court into custody; but the same shall be done on the
order of the court or district attorney, for which no fees shall
be charged by the clerk or marshal." Before this item can
be allowed, we think it should be made to appear that the
commitments were issued in cases not falling within the
above section, and hence that they were a proper charge
under the circumstance of each particular case. It is entirely
possible that the clerk may be entitled to the fees charged,
at the same time we think he should make it appear in the

