- OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Syllabus.

Section 706 of the Revised Statutes and section 848 of the
Revised Statutes~of the District of Columbia, which provided
for the allowance of appeals and writs of error by the justices
of this court under special circumstances, are no longer in
force. Act of February 25, 1879, c. 99, 20 Stat. 320, c. 99;
Railroad Co. v. Grant, 98 U. S. 398; -Dennison v. Alexander,
103 U. S. 522; Act of March 3, 1885, 23 Stat. 443., c. 355;
Cross v. Bfurke, 146 U. S. 82, 87.
The sum in dispute on this record, exclusive of costs, is more
than one thousand and less than five thousand dollars. It is
well settled that our appellate jurisdiction, when dependent
upon the sum or value really in dispute between the parties,.is
to be tested without regard to the collateral effect of the judgment in another suit between the same or other parties. It is
the direct effect of the judgment that can alone be considered.
NYew England Xfortgage Co. v. Gay, 145 U. S. 123; W-ashington aid Georgetown Railroad Co. v. .Districtof 0olumiaj 146
U. S. 227.
This case does not come within either of the sections of the
act of March 3, 1885, regulating appeals and writs of error
from the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia, and the
writ of error must, therefore, be
.Dimised.

HOLMES v. GOLDSMITH.
3RROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE

DISTRICT OF OREGON,
lTo. 93. Argued December 14,15,.1892.-

Decided January 9. 1893.

The maker of a promissory note signed it entirely for the benefit of the
payee, who was really the party for whose use it was made. The maker
and the~payee were citizens of the same State. A citizen of another
State discounted the note, and paid full consideration for it to the payee,
who endorsed it to him. The note not being paid at maturity, the endorsee, who had not _parted with it, brought suit upon it against the
maker in the .Circuit Court of the United States. Held, that the court
had jurisdiction, notwithstanding the provision in the act of August 13,

HOLMES v. GOLDSMITH.
Statement of the Case.
1888, 25 Stat. 433, 434, c. 866, that such court shall not have cognizance
of a suit" to recover the contents of 'a promissory note in favor of an
assignee or subsequent holder, unless such suit might have been prosecuted in such court if no assignment had been made.
When the genuineness of a paper sued on is put in issue, papers not otherwise competent may be introduced in Oregon for the purpose of enabling
the jury to make a comparison of handwritings.
A witness who has sworn to the genuineness of a disputed signature to a
note, may be further asked if he would act upon it if it came to him in
an ordinary business transaction.
The admission of evidence of a collateral fact, which might have been
rejected by the trial court without committing error, does not constitute
error which will of itself justify reversal of the judgment below; if the
case of the plaintiff in error was not injured by it.

Tins was an action brought by L. Goldsmith and Max Goldsmith, doing business as partners under the name of L. Goldsmith & Co., citizens of the State of New York, against M1. B.
Holmes, John DUllard and R. Phipps, citizens of the State of
Oregon, as makers of a promissory note, in the words and
figures following:
"$10,000.

PORTLAND,

OREGON, Aug. 9, 1886.

"Six months after date, without grace, we, or either of us,
promise to pay to the order of W. F. Owens ten thousand
dollars, for value received, with interest from date at the rate
of ten per cent per annum until paid, principal and interest
.payable in U. S. gold coin, at the first National Bank in Portland, Oregon, and in case suit is instituted to collect this note
or any portion thereof, we promise to pay such additional sum
as the court may adjudge reasonable as attorney's fees in said
suit.
"

. B. Hou.us,
DiaLAu,

"JOHn

"R. IhIPPs."
On the day of its date, W. F. Owens endorsed the note,
waived, in writing, demand, notice and protest, delivered the
note, so endorsed, to the agent of the plaintiffs, and received
the sum of ten thousand dollars.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

The complaint alleged that the transaction was a loan by
plaintiffs to W. F. Owens; that the defendants executed the
note for the accommodation of Owens, to enable him to procure the loan thereon; and that Owens was, in fact, a maker
of said note to the plaintiffs, and never himself had any cause
of action thereon against the defendants.
To this complaint the defendants demurred, on the ground
that it did not bring the case within the jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court, and did not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action.
Upon argument this demurrer was overruled. 36 Fed.
*Rep. 484.
The defendants answered, denying the execution of the note,
and knowledge of the other facts alleged in the complaint.
At the trial a verdict was given in favor 'of the plaintiffs for
the amount of the note, with interest from date, and on June
19, 1889, judgment was entered on the verdict, in favor of the
-plaintiffs and against the defendants, for the amount of the
note with interest and with costs and disbursements.
A writ of error was duly sued out and allowed, and the case
brought into this court for review.
.r. John T 27Jiitchell for plaintiffs in error.
The first and second assignments of error relate to the
jurisdiction of the court: whether the note sued upon comes
within the prohibitory provision of the act of August 13,
1888, 25 Stat. 433, c. 866. That provision is as follows:
"Nor shall any Circuit or District Court have cognizance of
any suit except upon foreign bills of exchange, to recover the
contents of any promissory note or other chose in action in
favor of any assignee, or of any subsequent holder if such
instrument be payable to bearer

.

.

.

unless such suit

might have been prosecuted in such court to recover the said
contents if no assignment or transfer had been made."
It is scarcely necessary to state the familiar rule that all
facts essential to confer jurisdiction on a Federal court must
be mde to appear affirmatively by material allegations, and

HOLMES v. GOLDSMITH.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

in determining the question of jurisdiction every immaterial
averment in a complaint, if any, must be eliminated in its
consideration. In other words, ad stated by Chief Justice
Ellsworth in this court so long ago as Turner v. Bank of
Horth America, 4 Dall. 8, 11, "The fair presumption is (not as
with regard to a court of general jurisdiction that a cause is
within its jurisdiction unless the contrary appears, but rather)
that a cause is without its jurisdiction till the contrary appears." Turner v. Bank of Forth America, 4 Dall. 84. See
also cott v. Sandford, 19 How. 893; E parte Smith,94 U. S.
455; Zing Iron, Bridge Co. v. Otoe County, 120 U. S. 225;
Hancock v. Jolhrook, 112 U. S. 229.
This suit is.on a contract or agreement, if such terms may
with propriety be applied to a promissory note, in writing,
namely a negotiable promissory note, the defendants being
the makers; W. F. Owens, the payee and endorser; and the
plaintiffs endorsees or assignees. Whatever rights might
attach to the defendants and the payee to show by parol proof
under certain circumstances the relations they bore severally
to each other, it is submitted that the plaintiffs are not at
liberty for any purpose, much less for the purpose of making
a case conferring jurisdiction on the Circuit Court, to either
aver in their complaint or prove by parol a state of case different from that presented by the writings. In other words, this
is a suit brought in a Circuit Court to recover the contents of
a promissory note, by the assignee thereof, which suit, it is
manifest, could not have been prosecuted in such court to
recover the said contents if no assignment had been made.
While the act of 1888 is more restrictive in its provisions
than the judiciary act of September 24, 1789, 1 Stat. 73, 79, a.
20, ยง 11, the two are substantially similar, so far as they relate
to promissory notes other than those payable to bearer. Therefore the judicial construction placed by this court on the act of
1789 Is applicable to the act of 1888. Fisk v. Henarie, 142
U. S.459.
This clause of the 'judiciary act of 1789 was interpreted by
this court- first by an opinion delivered by Chief Justice
Marshall in the case of Young v. Brian, 6 Wheat. 146, and

OCTOBER TERMf, 1892.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

the construction then placed upon it was subsequently cited
and approved in the following cases: Mkiullen v. Torrance, 9
Wheat. 537; Evans v. Gee, 11 Pet. 80; Phil ips v. P'eston,
5 How. 278; Ba4 of the United States v. .Moss, 6 How. 31;
Cqfee v. Planters'Bank of Tennessee, 13 How. 183; Leary v.
Farmers'and MYfechanics' Bank of .fAemphis, 16 Pet. 88. See
also Turner v. Bank of NSorth America, 4 fall. 8; Montalet
v. .Murray,4 Cranch, 46.
These authorities, and they do not seem to have been overruled, lay down very clearly and without qualification the two
following propositions:
1. That under this clause of the judiciary act of 1789, an
endorsee of a promissory note may bring a suit in the Circuit
Court to recover th6 contents thereof against the immediate
endorser and a citizen of a different State, whether a suit
could be brought in such court by such endorser against the
maker. or not. That in such a case the endorsee does not
claim through an assignment. It is a new contract entered
into by the endorser and endorsee upon which the suit is
brought; and
2. That in a suit brought in a Circuit Court to iecover the
contents of a promissory note by the endorsee against either
the maker or a remote endorser, it is necessary, in order to
confer jurisdiction, to aver in the complaint the fact that the
payee or promisee named in such note is a citizen of a State
other than that of which the maker of the note is a citizen.
The same doctrine is approved in 3forgan's .Executor v.
Gay, 19 Wall. 81; King Iron Bridge Co. v. Otoe County, 120
U. S. 225 ; -ewgass v. -New Orleans, 33 Fed. Rep. 196 ; Ambler
v. Eppinger, 137 U. S. 480; Metcaof v. Watertawn, 128 U. S.
586; Denny v. Pironi,141 U. S. 121.
The cake at bar, the court will bear in mind, is a suit brought
by the endorsees, not against an endorser, either immediate or
remote, but against the makers of the note, the payee or endorser
not being joined as a party.
In view of the foregoing authorities, this clearly being a suit
to recover the contents of a promissory note by the assignees
thereof against the makers, and the complaint so far from

HOLMES v. GOLDSMITH.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

averring that the payee in such note was a citizen of a different
State from that of the defendant, avers what in law amounts
to an averment that he was a citizen of the same State, it is
clear that the complaint does not state facts sufficient to confer jurisdiction, and defendants' demurrer should have been
sustained.
Owens, the payee in the note, cannot be eliminated from
the case by averment and evidence showing him to be a
maker of the note and not an endorser. Parol evidence is not
admissible to vary the contract of endorsement, or the agreement of the parties as fixed under the law by the fact of
endorsement. The same rule which excludes parol evidence
to vary the terms or obligations of a written agreement is
applicable to the contract of endorsement in blank on a negotiable promissory note where the terms of contract are implied
by law. United States Bank v. Dunn, 6 Pet. U. S. 51 ;
Speckt v. Howarcd, 16 Wall. 564; Renner v. Bank of Columbia,
9 Wheat. 581; .Aartin v. Cole, 104 U. S. 30.
While it is true that makers and endorsers of promissory
notes are permitted under certain circumstances to show by
parol the nature of the arrangement as between themselves,
to the end that the liability as between themselves may be
properly adjusted, either in a suit against some or all of them
by the subsequent assignee, it is respectfully submitted that
such assignee or last endorsee is not permitted for any purpose
to show by parol testimony that the relation that the makers
and endorsers of a note hold toward each other or toward him,
is other or different from that shown by the writings; and
especially must this be so when the sole purpose of such oral
showing is to make a case cognizable in a Federal court which
in the absence of such showing would have no standing in
such a court.
The cases which hold that,,as between the parties who execute or endorse the bill, the true relationship may be shown,
do not trench in the slightest degree upon the rule that
an endorsement cannot be varied by parol evidence at the
instance of the endorsee. The right of such parties may be
tried between themselves, but the right of the holders cannot

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

be thereby affected, either at the instance of the endorsee or
that of the makers or endorsers. The rights of the former
cannot be. enlarged in any respect by any- parol showing, nor
can they be diminished, restricted, or in any manner.modified
by any showing that the makers or endorsers may be permitted
to make for the purpose of establishing the rights respectively
as between themselves, which it is conceded they may properly
do. -Houston v. Bruner, 39 Indiana, 376; Stack v. Beach, 74
Indiana, 571; De Wittv. Berry, 134 U. S. 306, 315.
The proposition of the plaintiff is, to vary the terms of the
contract of endorsement. Although the paper is on its face a
promissory note in due form, Owens being the payee and subsequent endorser, the plaintiffs, the assignees, propose to show
by parol proof that this note when executed by the defendants
and as alleged delivered to Owens the payee, gave no rights
to the payee, and was to all intents and purposes vain, futile
and of no force or effect whatever. This cannot be done.
Burnes v. Scott, 117 U. S.582.
.Mr. L. B. Cox for defendants in error.
MRh. JUSTICE SR r&s, after stating the case, delivered the

opinion of the court.
The complaint alleges the ownership in the plaintiffs of a
chose in action; as to the character, a promissory note; as to
amount, ten thousand dollars; as to parties, the plaintiffs,
citizens of the State of New York, and the defendants, citizens
of the State of Oregon; thus bringing the case within the
jurisdiction of a Circuit Court of the United States, as defined
in the Constitution.
By the demurrer to the complaint the defendants invoked
the provision of the act of August 13, 1888, 25 Stat. 433, 434,
c. 866, which is as follows:
"Nor shall any Circuit or District Court have cognizince of
any suit, except upon foreign bills of exchange, to recover the
contents of any promissory note or other chose in action in
favor of any assignee or of 'any subsequent holder, if such

HOLMES v. GOLDSMITH.
Opinion of the Court.

instrument be payable to bearer,

.

.

.

unless such suit

might have been prosecuted in such court to recover the said
contents if no assignment or transfer had been made."
Upon the face of the complaint, the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court was duly made to appear, so far as the requisitions
of the Constitution apply. -'utit has been held, in a series of
cases beginning with Turner v. Bank of fNorta Amerioa, 4
Dall. 8, that it is competent for Congress, in creating a Circuit
Court and prescribing the extent of its jurisdiction, to withhold
jurisdiction in the case of a particular controversy.
In pursuance of this view, it has been frequently held by
this court that, in an action in a Circuit Court of the United
States, by an assignee of a chose in action, the record must
affirmatively show, by apt allegations, that the assignor could
have maintained the action. Thus, Mr. Justice Strong, in
delivering the opinion of the court, in the case of .forgan's
Executor v. Gay, 19 Wall. 81, 83, said:
"In urner v. Bank of Nora America, 4 Dall. 8, it was
distinctly ruled that when an action upon a promissory note
is brought in a Federal cqurt by an endorser against the maker,
not only the parties to the suit, but also the citizenship of the
payee and the endorser, must be averred in the record to be
such as to give the court jurisdiction."
In Shldon v. Sill, 8 How. 441, 448, it was contended, in
favor of the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court, that the provision
in the Judiciary Act of 1789, inhibiting a suit by an assignee
of a chose in action, in cases where the assignor could not have
sued, if no assignment had been made, was invalid, because
it attempted to deprive the courts of the United States of the
judicial power with which the Constitution had invested them;
but this court, speaking through Mr. Justice Grier, said:
"The eleventh section of the Judiciary Act, which defines
the jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts, restrains them from
taking' cognizance of any suit to recover the contents of any
promissory note, or other chose in action, in favor of an
assignee, unless a suit might have been prosecuted in such
court to recover the contents, if no assignment had been made,
except in cases of foreign bills of exchange.'

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

"The third article of the Constitution declares that ' the
judicial power of the United States shall be vested in one
Supreme Court and such inferior courts as the Congress may,
from time to time, ordain and establish.' The second section
of the same article enumerates the cases and controversies of
which the judicial power shall have cognizance, and, amofig
others, it specifies 'contr versies between citizens of different
States.'
. "It has been alleged that this restriction of the Judiciary
Act, with regard to assignees of choses in action,
is in conflict
with this provision of the Constitution, and therefore void.
"It must be admitted that, if the Constitution had ordained
and established the inferior courts, and distributed to them
their respective powers, they could not be restricted or divested
by Congress. But, as it has made no such distribution, one of
two consequences must result -either that each inferior court
created by Congress must exercise all the judicial powers not
given to the Supreme Court, or that Congress, having the
power to establish the courts, must define their respective
jurisdictions. The first of these inferences has never been
asserted, and could not be defended with any shoW of reason,
and, if not, the latter would seem to follow as a necessary
consequence. And it would seem to follow also that, having
a right to prescribe, Congress may withhold from anyvcourt
of its creation jurisdiction of any of the enumerated controversies. Courts created by statute can have no jurisdiction
but such as the statute confers. No one of them can assert
a just claim to jurisdiction exclusively conferred on another,
or withheld from all.
"The Constitution has defined the limits of the judicial
power of the United States, but has not prescribed how much
of it shall be exercised by the Circuit Court; consequently,
the statute which does prescribe the limits of their jurisdiction
cannot be in conflict with the Constitution, unless it donfers
powers not enumerated therein."
This doctrine has remained unchallenged, and has been as.
sumed for law in numerous cases, which it is unnecessary tc
cite, and a similar provision has been inserted in the various

HOLMES v. GOLDSMITH.
Opinion of the Court.

acts defining the jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts, including,
as we have seen, the act of August 13, 1888, under which the
present action was brought.
Nor are we asked by the defendant in error to disregard
those cases, but he contends that, consistently with their doctrine and the provision of the Judiciary Act, he can maintain
his action by alleging and proving that the nominal endorser
was not really such, but that the note was made by the makers
for his accommodation and as his sureties; that he was, in legal
effect, a maker of the note; that he received the proceeds of the
loan effected through the note, and had no right of action
against the nominal makers of the note; and, hence,, that he
cannot be regarded as an assignor of a right of action against
the makers, within the true meaning of the Judiciary Act.
The learned judge who tried the case below adopted the
view that where it is necessary, to maintain' the jurisdiction
of the Circuit Court in an action *ona promissory note, to show

that the plaintiff, who appears to be an endorsee or assignee,
is in point of fact the payee of the note, it may be done, and
therefore overruled the demurrer.
Against this view of the case, the plaintiffs in error urge two
propositions: first, that it was not competent for the holders of
the note to show, by allegation and evidence, that the relation
of the parties to the note, as makers and payees, was otherwise
than as it appeared to be in the phraseology of the note itself;
and, second, that, assuming the plaintiffs' evidence to truly
present the facts of the case, yet the plaintiffs were not thereby
relieved from the operation of that provision of the law which
forbids assignees from maintaining actions to recover the contents of promissory notes. To sustain their first objection,.
plaintiffs in error cite numerous cases going to show that parol
evidence is not admissible to vary the contract of endorsement,
or the agreement of the parties as fixed under the law by the
fact of endorsement.
Certainly, as against a third party who has become, in good
faith, the holder of a promissory note, a defendant, whether a
maker or an endorser, will not be permitted to escape from the
legal import of his formal contract by an offer of parol evi-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

dence. But, as -between themselves, it has always been held
that evidence showing the real relation of the parties is admissible, because it does not change or vary the contract, but shows
what it really was. The defendants' engagement, as to amount
and date and place of payment, and every other circumstance
connected with it, is left by the evidence just what it appears
to'be on the face of the note.
In Brooks v. TDiacher, 52 Vermont, 559, where there was a
question as to whether a party to a note was, principal or
surety, ledfield, J., said: "But the real relation of the parties
to a written instrument, whether as principal or sureties, may
always be shown by parol evidence."
Harris v. Brook,, 21 Pick. 195, 197; was a suit wherein one
of two makers of a note was permitted to show that, though
a joint maker in form, he was, in fact, surety for the other
maker, and had been released by an agreement of the holder
that he would look to the principal; and Shaw, C. J., said:
"The fact of such relation, and notice of it to the holder, may,
we think, be proved by extrinsic evidence. It is not to affect
the terms of the contract, but to prove a collateral fact and
rebut a presumption."
If, then, it was satisfactorily shown that Owens, the nominal
endorser, was really the party for whose use the note was made,
and that the plaintiffs below were the first and only holders of
the note for value, the ne4 question. is whether, upon-that state
of facts, they were prevented, by the terms of the Judiciary
Act, from maintaining an action in the Circuit Court...
It is quite plain that the plaintiffs', action did not offend the
spirit and purpose of this section of the act. The purpose of
the restriction as to suits by assignees was to prevent the
making of assignments of choses in action for the purpose of
giving jurisdiction to the Federal court.
Bank of tKentucky v. tiser, 2 Pet. 318, 326, was the case
of a suit in a Circuit Court of the United States by a holder
of a bank, bill payable to individuals or bearer, concerning
which individuals there was no averment of citizenship, and
which, therefore, may have been payable, in the frst instance,
to parties not competent to sue in the courts of the United

HOLMES v. GOLDSMITH.
Opinion of the Court.

States. But the court held, "this is a question which has
been considered and disposed of in our previous decisions.
This court has uniformly held that a note payable to bearer is
payable to anybody, and not affected by the disabilities of the
nominal payee."
In Bushnell v. Zeniedy, 9 Wall. 387, 391, Chief Justice
Chase, in delivering the opinion of the court, said: "It may
be observed that the denial of jurisdiction of uits by assignees
has never been taken in an absolutely literal sense. It has
been held that suits upon notes payable. to a particular individual or to bearer may be maintained by the holder, without
any allegation of citizenship of the original payee; though it
is not to be doubted that the holder's title to the note could
only be derived through transfer or assignment. So, too, it
has been decided, where the assignment was by will, that the
restriction is not applicable to the representative of the decedent. And it has also been determined that the assignee of a
chose in action may maintain a suit in the Circuit Court to
recover possession of the specific thing, or damages for its
wrongful caption or detention, though the court would have
no jurisdiction of the suit if brought by the assignors."
We do not overlook the fact that, since the foregoing cases
were determined, Congress has, in the more recent Judiciary
acts, still further restricted the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Courts by including in the prohibitory clause the case of'
promissory notes payable to bearer.
But the reasoning remains applicable in so far as they hold
that the language of the. statute is to be interpreted by the
purpose to be effected and the mischief to be prevented.
We think that the jurisdiction of the Circuit Court, in the
case before us, was properly put by ihe court below upon the
proposition that the true meaning of the restriction in question wa4 not disturbed' by permitting the plaintiffs to show
that, notwithstanding the terms of the note, the payee was
really a maker br original promisor, and did not, by his endorsement, assig ortransfer
'
any right of action held by him
against the accommodation makers.
Tbe jurisdictioii of the court having been established, and
VOL.' CXLV-II-1

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

an issue having been made as to the execution of the note,
several questions arose during the progress of the trial, which
are brought up for our consideration by bills of exceptions.
The second, third, fourth and fifth assignments allege error
in the action of the court in permitting one It. Abraham to
testify as to what were the relations between the defendants
and W. F. Owens, and as to what Owens wanted to do with the
money he borrowed on the note in suit.
It was not claimed by the plaintiffs that the'evidence of)jected to was needed to create an obligation on the part of the
defendants to pay the note. That obligation arose directly
from the terms of the note, and, if the execution of the note
had not been denied, the testimony of Abraham would not
have been necessary.
But in view of the nature of the controversy before the
jury, putting in issue the execution of the note sued on, we
agree with the trial court in regarding the evidence as admissible. While each one of the facts so elicited was, when regarded singly, of small importance, yet, taken together, they
were worthy of consideration, and we do not perceive that any
rule of evidence was violated in submitting them to the jury.
It is argued that there was error in admitting statements by
the witness Abraham, as to the contents of the letters that
had passed between him and Owens, without producing the
letters, or accounting for their absence. But the record does
not disclose that any specific objection was made to the evidence for that reason, though objection was made generally to
the admission of any conversation between the witness and
*Owens, which was not had in the presence of the defendants,
as incompetent and irrelevant. But the force of this is broken
by the observation that what passed between the witness and
Owens, whether in conversation or in letters, was of matters
that happened prior to the making of the note, and was admitted only to show the relations of the parties and the circumstances in which the note was made.
In view of the fact,, disclosed by the record, of the death of
Owens before the trial, and the consequent necessity of resorting to circumstantial evidence, we think the rules on this sub-

HOLMES v. GOLDSMITH.
Opinion of the Court.

ject were not unduly relaxed in permitting a full disclosure of
the Pes gestw.
There are several additional assignments of error, which
involve the action of the court in admitting evidence bearing
on the question of the execution of the note in suit.
So far as such assignments present the vexed subject of the
introduction into a cause of papers, not otherwise competent,
foi the purpose of enabling the jury to make a comparison of
handwriting, we are relieved from discussion by the existence
of an Oregon statute, which provides that "evidence respecting the handwriting may also be given by a comparison, made
by a witness skilled in such matters, or the jury, with writings
admitted or treated as genuine by the party against whom
the evidence is offered." 1 Hill's Ann. Laws of Oregon, ยง 765.
We regard this statute as constituting the law of the case, and
as warranting the action of the court in the particulars complained of.
The seventh assignment avers error in permitting several
witnesses to testify as to whether they would act upon the
signatures of the defendants attached to the note sued on if
they came to them in an ordinary business transaction. Such
a question standing alone might be objectionable, but the
record discloses that each of these witnesses had testified to
his acquaintance with the handwriting of one or more of the
defendants, and :to his belief of the genuineness of the signatures of the parties with whose handwriting he was acquainted;
and, as a means 'of showing the strength and value of the
witnesses? opinions, the question put was allowable.
We hav more difficulty in disposing of the errors assigned
in the ninth, tenth, eleventh and twelfth specifications. Two
letters of Owens, the nominal payee of the note, who was not
a party to the suit, were admitted in evidence, and Edward
Failing, an expert witness, was asked to state whether, judging from the letters produced, he believed that Owens cotFld
have forged the names upon the note in dispute so as to correspond so nearly with the names upon the comparison papers.
Certain stub certificates were admitted in evidence, and George
W. Jones testified that his name thereon written was his sig-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

nature, and thereupon the expert was asked whether or not,
in his opinion, the name of Jones so written would be an
easier name to counterfeit than that of M. B. Holmes. That
the ordinary handwriting of Owens, as shown in his letters,
was such as to convince an expert that he was not able to
successfully imitate the signatures of other persons, may have
,been entitled to some weight. That Owens could, in the
opinion of the expert, have as readily counterfeited the handwriting of Jones as that of the defendant Holmesi seems to be
'fanciful and entitled to little or no weight. If these offers
had been rejected by the court, such rejection could not have
been successfully assigned as error. Still we cannot perceive
that the case of the defendants was injured by the admission
of this trifling evidence. As has been frequently said, great
latitude is allowed in the reception of circumstantial evidence, the aid of which is constantly required, and, therefore,
where direbt evidence of the fact is wanting, the more the jury
can see of the surrounding facts and circumstances the more
correct their judgment is likely to be. "The competency of
a collateral fact to be used as the basis of legitimate argument is not to be determined by the conclusiveness of the
inferences it may afford in reference to the litigated fact. It
is enough if these may tend, even in a slight degree, to elucidate the inquiry, or to assist, though remotely, to a determination probably founded in truth." Stevenson v. Stewart, 11
Penn. St. 307.
The modern tendency, both of legislation and of the decision of courts, is to give as wide a scope as possible to the
investigation of facts. Courts of error are specially unwilling.
to reverse cases because unimportant and possibly irrelevant
testimony may have crept in, unless there is reason to think
that practical injustice has been thereby caused.
These observations seem to sufficiently dispose of the errors
assigned, and the judgment of the court below is accordingly
I
Afflrmed.

