LAKE SHORE &c. RAILWAY CO. v. PRENTICE. 101
Statement of the Case.

these bonds in reliance upon the authority given them by
the vote of the people, in pursuance of the general laws of
the State, although referring on the face of, the bonds to the
Missouri and Mississippi Railroad Company act, which specially authorized the company to receive and the counties
through which it ran to make subscriptions. *It is very likely
that the county court had in mind the special'act creating the
Missouri and Mississippi Railroad Company, as well as the
general law, and the vote of the people under it, and that it
meant to exercise all the authority conferred by both. It is
enough for this case that the vote of the people authorizing
this issue of bonds was given, and that the county court acted
in reliance thereon, for, by assent, through their vote, to such
issue of bonds the people, in the way prescribed by the
statutes of the State, in effect consented that alevy beyond
the meagre one provided for by the Missouri and Mississippi
Railroad Company act might be resorted to for the payment
of these bonds.
These are the substantial matters involved in .this litigation.
We find no error in the proceedings of the Circuit Court, and
its judgment is

Affirmed.

LAKE SHORE & MICHIGAN SOUTHERN RAILWAY
COMPANY v. PRENTICE.
EROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.
No. 58. Argued November 23,1892. -Decided

January 3, 1893.

A railroad corporation is not liable to exemplary or punitive damages for'
an illegal, wanton and oppressive arrest of a passenger by the conductor
of one of its trains, which it has in no way authorized or ratified.

THIS was an action of trespass on the case, brought October
19, 1886, in the Circuit Court of the United States for the
Northern District of Illinois, by Prentice, a citizen of Ohio,

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

against the Lake Shore and Michigan Southern Railway
Company, a corporation of Illinois, to recover damages for
the wrongful acts of the defendant's servants.
The declaration alleged, and the evidence introduced at the
trial tended to prove, the following facts: The plaintiff was a
physician. The defendant was engaged in operating a railroad, and conducting the business of a common carrier of passengers and freight, through Ohio, Indiana, Illinois and other
States. On October 12, 1886, the plaintiff, his Wife and a
number of other persons were passengers, holding excursion
tickets, on a regular passenger train of the defendant's railroad, from Norwalk in Ohio to Chicago in Illinois. During
the journey the plaintiff purchased of several passengers their
return tickets, which had nothing on them- to show that they
were not transferable. The conductor of the train, learning
this, and knowing that the plaintiff had been guilty of no
offence for which he was liable to arrest, telegraphed for a
police officer, an employ6 of the defendant, who boarded the
train as it approached Chicago. The conductor thereupon, in
a loud and angry voice, pointed out the plaintiff to the officer, and ordered his arrest; and the officer, by direction of the
conductor, and without any warrant or authority of law, seized
the plaintiff and rudely searched him for weapons in the presence of the other passengers, hurried him into another car, and
there sat down by him as a watch, and refused to tell him the
cause of his arrest, or to let him speak to his wife. While the
plaintiff was being removed into the other car, the conductor,
for the purpose of disgracing and humiliating him with his
fellow-passengers, openly declared that he was under arrest,
and sneeringly said to the plaintiff's wife, "Where's your
doctor now?" On arrival at Chicago, the conductor refused
to let the plaintiff assist his wife with her parcels in leaving
the train, or to give her the check for their trunk; and, in the
presence of the passengers and others, ordered him to be taken
to the station-house, and he was forcibly taken there, and detained until the conductor arrived and, knowing that the plaintiff had been guilty of no offence, entered a false charge against
him of disorderly conaclut, upon which he gave bail and was

LAKE SHORE &c. RAILWAY

do. v. PRENTICE. 103

Statement of the Case.

released, and of which, on appearing before a justice of the
peace for trial on the next day, and no one appearing to prosecute him, he was finally discharged.
The declaration alleged that all these acts were done by the
defendant's agents in the line of their employment, and that the
defendant was legally responsible therefor; and that the plain:
tiff had been thereby put to expense, and greatly injured in
mind, body and reputation.
At the trial, and before the introduction of any evidence,
the defendant, by its counsel, admitted "that the arrest of
the plaintiff was wrongful, and that he was entitled to
recover actual damages therefor;" but afterwards excepted
to each of the following instructions given by the Circuit
Judge to the jury:
"If you believe the statements which have been made by
the plaintiff and the witnesses who testified in his behalf (and
they are not denied) then he is entitled to a verdict which will
fully compensate him for the injuries which he sustained, and
in compensating him you are authorized to go beyond the
amount that he has actually expended in employing counsel;
you may go beyond the actual outlay in money which he has
made. He was arrested publicly, without a warrant, and
without cause; and if such conduct as has been detailed before you occurred, such as the remark that was addressed by
the conductor to the wife in the plaintiff's presence, in compensating him you have a right to consider the humiliation of
feeling to which he was thus publicly subjected. If the company, without reason, by its unlawful and oppressive act,
subjected him to this public humiliation, and thereby outraged
his feelings, he is entitled to compensation for that injury and
mental anguish.
"I am not able to give you any rule by which you can determine that; but bear in mind, it is strictly on the line of
compensation. The plaintiff is entitled to compensation in
money for humiliation of feeling and spirit, as well as'the
actual outlay which he has made in and about this suit.
"And, further, after agreeing upon the amount which will
fairly compensate the plaintiff for his outlay and injured feel-

OCTOBER TERMI, 1892.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

ings, you may add something by way of punitive damages
against the defendant, which is sometimes called smart money,
if you are satisfied that the conductor's conduct was illegal
(and it was illegal), wanton and oppressive. How much that
shall be the court cannot tell you. You must act as reasonable men, and not indulge vindictive feelings towards the
defendant.
"If a public corporation, like an individual, acts oppressively,
wantdnly, abuses power, and a citizen in that way is injured,
the citizen; in addition to strict compensatioi, may have, the
law says, something in the was' of smart money; something
as punishment for the oppressive use of power."
The jury returned a verdict for the plaintiff -inthe sum of
$10,000. The defendant moved -for a new trial, for error in
law, and for excessive damages. The plaintiff thereupon, by
leave of court, remitted the sum of $4000, and asked that
judgment be entered for, $6000. The court then denied the
iAotion for a new trial, and gave judgment for the plaintiff
for $6000. The defendant sued out this writ of error.
,,.r.George C. Greene for plaintiff in error.
Mr,'. *W A. _Foster for defendant in error,
I. But one question arises upon the record, and that is,
under the facts, is plaintiff in error liable for punitive -damages?
That a master is liable for -the trespass of his servant in
the line of his employment, although wilful on the part of the
servant, we assume is no longer an open question under the
decisions in this country and in England.
That the liability of corporations for the acts of servants is
the same as that of natural persons, may.be conceded, and has
received the sanction of this court in _Nationqi Bank v.
Graham, 100 U. S. 699, 702; and in Denxer & Rio Gran4
Railway v. Barris, 122 U. S. 597. See also Salt Lake City v.
-Hollister, 118 U, S. 256, 260; NYew Jersey Steanboat Com)any v. Brockett, 121 U. S. 637.; State v. _Mbrri8 & Esem
Railroad,3 Zabriskie, (238 N. J,Law,) 360.

,LAKE

SHORE &c. "RAILWAY CO. v,. PRENTICE. 105
Argument for Defendant in Error.

H-. Authority by the principal is implied when the servant
is acting within the scope of his employment. It is not
necessary to show express authority by th6 corporation. Was
the act done in the interest of the company ? This is the
only question. Denver & Rio Grande Railway v. -Harris,
122 U. S. 597.
III. Punitive damages were properly allowed in the case at
bar. The authorities cited by counsel for plaintiff in error
denying punitive damages are either distinguishable from the
case at bar upon the facts, or are from exceptional States that
have adopted a different rule of damages from the great majority of courts, and from the rule adopted by this court. See
Craker v. Chicago & fforthwestern Railway, 36 Wisconsin,
657; Aftilwaukee & St. Paul Railway v. Arms, 91 U. S.489;
Galena v. H~ot 8prings Railroad,1.3 Fed. Rep. 116.
The plaintiff was a passenger without a question as to his
right to be carried and protected from insult or indignity.
There was no question with reference to his ticket, he had
violated no rule of the company, was guilty of no crime, nor
had he demeaned himself in any improper manner, nor was he
in any way obnoxious to his fellow-passengers. The treatment that he received was worse than that bestowed upon the
ordinary felon. He was publicly pointed out, and a command
for his arrest given in tones which alled attention to him
from all occupants of the car. He was searched for weapons
publicly, as if he:were a desperado. He was pushed through
cars like a thief, separated from his wife, as if to prevent a
conspiracy to escape, guarded like a murderer and carried to
the station in the rain without leave to obtain his overcoat, as
one who had forfeited all right to considerations of humanity.
IV. These acts of the conductor were within the scope of
his employment. Ramsden v. Boston & Albany Railroad,
104 Mass. !11; Rowe v. Newmarch, 12 Allen, 49; .impus v.
Iondon Gen.eral Omnibus Co., 1 H. & 0. 526; Seymour v.
Greenwood, 6 H. & N. 859; Garretsenv. Duonckel, 50 Mis.
souri, 104; Camfpbell v. Pullman Palace Car Co., 42 Fed.
Rep. 484; Chamberlain v. Chandler, 3 Mason, 242; Craker
w y, -86 Wisconsin, 657-i.
v.
Chiago & N.orthwestern Ralv'

OCTOBER TERM, 1892:
Opinion of the Court.

Denver & _Rio Grande Railway v. Harris,122 V. S. 597;
-Milwaukee& St. Paul Railway v. Arms, 91 1. S. 489; EYrulevitz v. Eastern Railroad,140 Mass. 573.
:M_. JUSTICE GIAY, after stating the case as above, delivered
the opinion of the court.

The only exceptions taken to the instructiohs at the trial,
which have been argued in this court, are to those on the subject of punitive damages.
The single question presented.for our decision, therefore, is
whether a zailroad crporation can be charged with punitive
or exemplary damages for the illegal, wanton and oppressive conduct of a conductor of one of its trains towards a
passenger.
This question, like others affecting the liability of a railroad
corporation as a common carrier of goods or passengers such as its right to contract for exemption from responsibility
for its own negligence, or its liability beyond its own line, or
its liability to one of its servants for the act of another person
in its employment -is a question, not of local law, but of general jurisprudence, upon which this court, in the absence of
express statute regulating the subject, will exercise its own
judgment, uncontrolled .by the decisions of the courts of the
several States. Railroad Co. v. Lockwood, 17 Wall. 357, 368;
Live2Tool Steam Co. v. Phenix Ins. Co., 129 U. S. 397, 443;
.fyric v. .ickigan Central Railroad. 107 U. S. 102, 109;
Hough v. Railway Co., 100 U. S. 213; 226.
The most distinct suggestion of the doctrine of exemplary
or punitive damages in England before the American Revolution is to be found in the remarks of Chief Justice Pratt
(afterwards Lord Camden)in one of the actions against the
King's messengers for trespass and imprisonment under general warrants of the Secretary of State, in which, the plaintiff's
counsel having asserted, and the defendant's counsel having
denied, the right to.recover "exemplary damages," the Chief
Justice instructed the jury as follows: "I have forrherly delivered it as my, opinion on another occasion, and I still continue

LAKE SHORE &c. RAILWAY CO. v. PRENTICE. 107
Opinion of the Court.

of the same mind, that a jury have it in their power to gie
damages for more than the injury received. Damages are
designed not only as a 'satisfaction to the injured person, but
likewise as a punishment to the guilty, to deter from any such
proceeding for the future, and as a proof of the detestation of
the jury to the action itself." Wilkes v..TFood, Lofft, 1, 18,"
19; S. C. 19 Howell's State Trials, 1153, 1167. See also
Hucle v. _J'oney, 2 Wilson, 205, 207; S. C., Sayer on Damages, 218, 221. The recovery of damages, beyond compensation for the injury received, by way of punishing the guilty,
and as an example to deter others from offending in like
manner, is here clearly recognized.
In this court, the doctrine is well settled, that in actions of
tort the jury, in addition to the sum awarded by way of compensation for the plaintiff's injury, may award exemplary,
punitive or vindictive damages, sometimes called smart money,
if the defendant has acted wantonly, or oppressively, or with
such malice as implies a spirit of mischief or criminal indifference to civil obligations. But such guilty intention on the
part of the defendant is required in order to charge him with
exemplary or punitive damages. The Amiable Nanoy, 3
Wheat. 546, 558, 559; -Day v. Ifoodworth, 13 How. 363, 371;
Philadeplhib &c. Railroad v. Quigley, 21 How. 202, 213,214;
lilwaukee & St. Paul Railway v. A:rms, 91 U. S. 489,493,
195; Missouri Pa7fio ailway v. H7umes, 115 U. S. 512,
521; Barry v. Edmunds, 116 U. S. 550, 562,,563; Denver c
Rio Grande Railway v. Harris, 122 U. S. 597, 609,610;
Minneapqolis & St. Louis Railway v. -Beekwith, 129 U. S.
26, 36.
Exemplary or punitive damages, being awarded,,not, br
way of compensation to the sufferer, but by way of punishment of the offender, and as a warning to others; cau only be
awarded against one who has participated in the offence. A
principal, therefore, though of course liable to make compensation for injuries done by his agent within the scope of his
employment, cannot be held lial~le for exemplary or punitive
damages, merely by reasoli of- wanton, oppressive or mal ious
intent on the part of the ageuqt.: Thislls clearly shown by the

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

judgment of this court in the case of The Amiable Nancy, 3
Wheat. 546.
In that case, upon a libel in admiralty by the owner, master,
supercargo and crew of a neutral vessel againist the owners of
an American privateer, for illegally and wantonly seizing and
plundering the neutral vessel and maltreating her officers and
crew, Mr. Justice Story, speaking for the court, in 1818, laid
down the general rule as to the liability for exemplary or
vindictive damages by way of punishment, as follows: "Upon
the facts disclosed in the evidence this must be pronounced a
case of gross and wanton outrage, without any just provocation or excuse. Under such circumstances, the honor of the
country and the duty of the court equally require that a just
compensation should be made to the unoffending neutrals, for
all the injuries and losses actually sustained by them. And if
this were a suit against the original wrongdoers, it might be
proper to go yet farther, and visit upon them, in the shape of
e6xemplary damages, the proper punishment which belongs
to such lawless miscotiduct. But it is to be cpnsidered that
this is a suit against the owners of the privateer, upon whom
the law has, from motives of policy, devolved a responsibility
-for the conduct of the officers and crew employed by them,
and yet, from the nature of the service, they can scarcely ever
be able to secure to themselves an adequate indemnity in cases
of loss. They are innocent of the demerit of this transaction,
having neither directed it, nor countenanced it, nor participated in it in the slightest degree. Under such circumstances,
we are of the opinion that they are bound to repair all the real
injuries and personal wrongs sustained by the libellants, but
they are not bound to the extent of vindictive damages."
8 Wheat. 558, 559.
The rule thus laid down is not peculiar to courts of admiralty; for, as stated by the same eminent judge two years later,
those courts proceed, in cases of tort, upon-the same principles
as courts of common law, in allowing exemplary damages, as
well as damages by way of compensation or remuneration for
expenses incurred, or injuries or -losses sustained, bythe mis.conduct of the other party. .oston. .Aanuf. Co. . v. Fis7e, 2

LAKE SHORE "&c. RAILWAY CO. v. PRENTICE. 109
Opinion of the Court.

Mason, 119, 121. In Keene v. Lizardi, 8 Louisiana, 26, 33,
Judge Martin said: "It is true, juries sometimes very properly
give what is called smart money. They are often warranted
in giving vindictive damages as a punishment inflicted for outBut this is only .justifiable in an action
rageous conduct.
against the wrongdoer, and not against persons who, on account of their relation to the offender, are only consequentially
liable for his acts, as the principal is responsible for the acts of
his factor or agent." To the same effect are: The State Rights,
Crabbe, 22, 4,7, 48; The Golden Gdte, McAllister, 104; Brardrobe v. California Stage Co., 7 California, 118; Boulard v.
Calhoun, 13 La. Ann. 445; Detroit Post v. .McArthur, 16
Michigan, 447; Grund v. Van Vleck, 69 Illinois, 478, 481;.
Becker v. Dupree, 75 Illinois, 167; Rosenkrans-v,. Barker,
115 Illinois, 331; .Kirksey v. Jones, 7 Alabama, 622, 629; Pollock v. Gantt, 69 Alabama 373, 379; Eviston v. Cramer, 57
Wisconsin, 570; Haines v. Schultz, 21 Vroom, (50 N{. J. Law,)
481 ; Me Carty v. .DeArmit, 99 Penn. St. 63, 72; Clark v. .ewsam, 1 Exch. 131, 140; Clissold v. .Machell, 26 Upper Canada

Q. B. 422.
The rule has the same application to corporations as to individuals. This court has often, in cases of this class, as well as
in other cases, affirmed the doctrine that for acts done by the
agents of a corporation, in the course of its business and of
their employment, the corporation is 'responsible, in the same
manner and to the same extent, as an individual is responsible
under similar ciicumstances. Philadelphia &c. Railroad v.
Quigley, 21 Hlow. 202, 210 ; Nlational Bank v. Graham, 100
U. S. 699, 702; SaltLake City v. Hollister, 118 U. S. 256,261;
Denver & Rio Grande Railway v. Harris,122 U. S. 597, 608.
A corporation is doubtless liable, like an individual' to make
compensation for any tort committed by an agent in the course
of his employment, although the act is dope wantonly and
recklessly, or against the express orders of the principal.
Philadelphia & Reading Railroad v. .Derby, 14 llowi 468;
N7few Jersey Steamboat Co. v. Brockett, 121 U. S. 637; Howe v.
Newmarch, 12 Allen, 49; Ramsden v. Boston & Albany Railroad, 104 Mass. 11"7. A corporation may even be held liable

OCTOBER TER-, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

for a libel, or a malicious prosecution, by its agent within the
scope of his employment; and the malice necessary to support
either action, if proved in the agent, may be imputed to the
corporation. Philadelphia&o. Railroad v. Quigley, 21 How.
202, 211; Salt Lake City v. Hollister, 118 U. S. 256, 262;
Reed v. Home Savings Bank, 130 Mass. 443, 445, and cases
cited; Hrulevitz v. Eastern Railroad, 140 Mass. 573; HcDer nott v. Evening, Journal,14 Vroom, (43 N. J. Law,) 488,
and 15 Vroom, (44 N. J. Law,) 430; Bank of Nrew South TVales
v. Owston, 4 App. Gas. 270. But, as well observed by Mr.
Justice Field, now Chief Justice of Massachusetts: "The
logical difficulty of imputing the actual malice or fraud of an
agent to his principal is perhaps less when the principal is a
person than when it is a corporation; still the foundation of
the imputation is not that it is inferred that the principal
actually participated in the malice or fraud, but, the act having
been done for his benefi by his agent acting within the scope
of his employment in his business, it is just that he should be
held responsible for it .in-damages." Lothrop v. Adams, 133
Mass. 471, 480, 481.
Though the principal is liable to make compensation for a
libel published or a malicious prosecution instituted by his
agent, he is not liable to be punished by exemplary damages
for an intent in which he did not participate. In Detroit Post
v. 2feArthur, in Eiston, v. Cramer, and in Haines v. Schultz,
above cited, it was held that the publisher of a newspaper,
when sued for a libel published, therein by one of his reporters
without his knowledge, was liabie'for compensatory damages
only, and not for punitive damages, unless he approved or
ratified the publication; and in Haines v. SehNltz the Supreme
Court of New Jersey said of punitive damages: "The right to
award them rests primarily upon the single ground - wrongful motive;" "It is the wrongful personal int-ntion to injure
that calls forth the penalty. To this wrongful intent knowledge is an essential prerequisite." "Absence of all proof
bearing on the essential question,*to wit, defendant's motive cannot be permitted to take the .place of evidence, without
leading to a faost dangerous extension of the doctrine resgon-

LAKE SHORE &c. RAILWAY CO. v. PRENTICE. in
Opinion of the Court.

deat su_7qerior." 21 Vroom, (50 N. J. Law,) 484,485. Whether
a principal can be criminally prosecuted for a libel published
by his agent without his participation is a question on which
the authorities are not agreed; and where it has been held
that he can, it is admitted to be an anomaly in the criminal
law. Commonwealth v. Morgan, 107 Mass. 199, 203; Regina
v. Holbrooke, 3 Q. B. D. 60, 63, 64, 70, and 4 Q. B. D. 42, 51, 60.
No doubt, a corporation, like a natural person, may be held
liable in exemplary or punitive dainages for the act of an
agent within the scope of his employment, provided the criminal intent, necessary to warrant the .imposition of such
damages, is brought home to the corporation.- Philadephia
&c. Railroad v. Quigley, .Milwaukee & St. Paul-Railway v.
Arms, and Denver & Rio Grande Railway v. Harris,above
cited; Caldwell v. New Jersey Steamboat Co., 47 N. Y. 282;
Bell v. Mfidland Railway, 10 C. B. (N. S.) 287; 5. C. 4:Law
Times (N. S.) 293.
Independently of this, in the case of a corporation, as of an
individual, if any wantonness or mischief on the part of the
agent, acting within the scope of his employment, causes additional injury to the plaintiff in body or mind, the principal is,
of course, liable to make compensation for the whole injury
suffered. Kennon v. Gilmer,'131 U. S. 22; Meagher v. Driscolt, 99 -Mass. 281, 285; Smith v. Holcomb, 99 Mass. 552;
Hawes v. JKnowle8, 114 Mass. 518; Campbell .v. Pullman
Car Co., 42 Fed. Rep. 484.
In the case at bar, the defendant's counsel having admitted
in open court "that the arrest of the plaintiff was wrongful,
and that he was entitled to recover actual damages therefor,"
the jury were rightly instructed that he was entitled to a verdict which would fully compensate him for the injuries sstained, and that in compensating him the jury were authorized
to go beyond his outlay in and about this suit, and to consider
the humiliation and outrage to which he had been subjected'
by arresting him publicly without warrant and without causei
and by the. conduct of the conductor, such as his remark to
the *plaintiff'swife.
But the court, going beyond this, distinctly instructed the

OCTOBER TER1e, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

jury that "after agreeing upon the amount which'will fully
compensate the 'plaintiff for his outlay and injured feelings,"
they might "add something by way of punitive damages
against the defendant, which is sometimes called smart
money," if they were "satisfied that the conductor's conduct
was illegal, wanton and oppressive."
The jury 'were -thus told; in the plainest terms, that the
corporation was responsible in punitive damages for Wantonness and oppression on the'part of the conductor, although
not actually pai'ticipated in'by the corporation. This ruling
appears to us to be inconsistent with the principles above
stated, unsupported by any' decisi6n of this court, and opposed
to the preponderance of well considered precedents.
In _Philade phi & Reading Railroadv. Derby, which was
an action by' a passenger against a railroad corporation for a
personal injury suffered through the negligence of its servants,
the jury were instructed that "the damages, if any were recoverable, are to be confined to the direct -and immediate
consequences of the injury sustained ;" and no exception was
taken to this instruction. 14 How. 4'10, 4'71.
In P iladelphia &a. Railroad v. Quigley, which was an
action against a railroad corporation for a libel published by
its agents, the jury returned a verdict for the plaintiff under
an instruction that "they are not restricted in giving damages
to the actual positive injury sustained by the plaintiff, but may
give such exemplary damages, if any, as in their opinion are
calld for'and justified, in iiew of all the circumstances in this
case, to render reparation' to the plaintiff, and act as an adequate punishment to the defendant." This court set aside the
verdict, because the instruction' given to the jury did not accurately defifne the measure of the defendant's liability; and,
speaking' by Mr. Justi6e Campbell, stated the rules applicable
to the case in these words : "For acts done by the agents of
the corporation, eithe in contractu or iii delicto, in the course'
of its business and of their employment, the corporation is
responsible, as an individual is responsible under similar circumstances." '"Whenever the injury complained of has been
ificted maliciously or wantonly, and w-ith circumstances of

LAKE SHORE &c. RAILWAY CO. v. PRENTICE. 113
Opinion of the Court.

contumely or indignity, the jury are not limited to the ascertainment of a simple compensation for the wrong committed
against the aggrieved person. But the malice spoken of in
this rule is not merely the doing of an unlawful or injurious
act. The word implies that the act complained of was conceived in the spirit of mischief, or criminal indifference to civil
obligations. Nothing of this kind can be imputed to these
defendants." 21 How. 210, 213, 214.
In Milwaukee & St. Paul Railway v. Arms, which was an
action against a railroad corporation, by a passenger injured
in a collision caused by the negligence of the servants of the
corporation, the jury were instructed thus: "If you find that
the accident was caused by the gross negligence of the defendant's servants controlling the train, you may give to the plaintiff punitive or exemplary damages." This court, speaking by
Mr. Justice Davis, and approving and applying the rule of
exemplary damages, as stated in Quigley's case, held that this
was a misdirection, and that the failure of the employ~s to
use the care that was required to avoid the accident, "whether
called gross or ordinary negligence, did not authorize the jury
to visit the company with damages beyond the limit of compensation for the injury actually inflicted. To do this, there
must have been some wilful misconduct, or that entire want
of care which would raise the presumption 9f a conscious indifference to consequences. Nothing of this kind can be imputed to the persons in charge of the train; and the court,
therefore, misdirected the jury." 91 U. S. 495.
In Denver & Rio Grande Railwa'y v. Harris,.the,-Irilroad
company, as the record showed, by an armed force" of. several
hundred men, acting as its agents and employ6s, and organ..
ized and commanded by its vice-president and assistant general
manager, attacked with deadly weapons the agents and employ~s of another company in possession of a railroad, and
forcibly drove them out, and"in so doing fir~d uporf and injured
one of them, who thereupon brought an action -against the
corporation, and recovered a verdict and judgment under an
instruction that the jury "were not limited to compensatory
damages, but could give punitive or exemplary damages, if it
VOL. cxLvII-8

114 '

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

* was found that the, defendant acted with bad intent, and in
pursuance of aii unlawful purpose to forcibly take possession
of the railway occupied by the other company, and in so doing
shot the -plaintiff." This court, speaking by Mr. Justice Harlan, quoted and approved the rules laid down in Quigley's
caee, and affirmed the judgment, not because any evil intent
on the part of the agents of the defendant corporation could
of itself make the corporation responsible for exemplary or
punitive damages, but upon the single ground that the evidence
clearly showed that the corporation, by its governing officers,
participated in and directed all that was planned and done.
122 U. S. 610:
The president and general manager, or, in his absence, the
vice-president in his place, actually wielding the whole executive power of the corporation, may well be treated as so far
representing the corporation and identified with it, that any
wanton, malicious or oppressive intent of his, in doing wrongful
acts in behalf of the corporation to the injury of others, may
be treated as the intent of the corporation itself. But the
conductor of a train, or other subordinate agent or servant of
a railroad corporation, occupies a very different position, and
is no more identified with his principal, so as to affect .the
latter with his own unlawful and criminal intent, than any
agent or servant standing in a corresponding relation to natural
persons carrying on a manufactory, a mine, or a house of trade
or corhmerce.
The law applicable to this case has been found nowhere
better stated than by Mr. Justice Brayton, afterwards Chief
Justice of Rhode Island, in the earliest reported -case of the
kind, in which a passenger sued a railroad 6orporation for his
wrongful expulsion from a train by the conductor, and recovered a verdict, but excepted to an instruction to the jury that
"punitive or vindictive damages, or smart money, were not
,to be allowed as against the principal, unless the principal
'participated in the wrongful act of the agent, expressly .or
impliedly, by his conduct authorizing it or approving it, either
before or after it was committed.' This instruction was held
td be right, for the following reasons: "In cases where puni-

LAKE SHORE &c. RAILWAY CO. v. PRENTICE. 115
Opinion of the Court.

tive or exemplary damages have been assessed, it has been
done upon evidence of such wilfulness, recklessness or wickedness, on the part of the party at fault, as amounted to criminality, which for the good of society and warning to the
individual ought to be punished. 'If in such cases, or in any
case of a civil nature, it is the policy of the law to visit upon
the off6nder such exemplary damages as will operate as punishment and teach the lesson of'caution to prevent a repetitibri
of criminality, yet we do not see how such damages can be
allowed, where the principal is prosecuted for the tortious act
of his servant, unless there is proof in the cause to implicate
the principal 'and make him particeps oriminis of his agent's
act. No man should be punished for that of which he is not
guilty." "Where the proof does not implicate the principal,
and, however wicked the servant may have been; the principal
neither expressly nor impliedly authorizes- or ratifies the act,
and the criminality of it is as much against him aslagainst
any other member of society, we think it is quite enough, that
he shall be liable in compensatory damages, for the injury
sustafned in consequence of the wrongful act of a person
acting as his servant." Eagan v. Pp'ovidence & Worcester
Railroad,3 :Rhode Island, 88, 91.
The like view was expressed by the Court of Appeals of
New York in an action brought against a railroad corporation
by a passenger for injuries suffered by the neglect of a switchman, who was intoxicated at the time of the accident. It was
held that evidence that the switchman was a man of intemperate habits, which was known to the agent of the company,
having the power to employ and discharge him and other
subordinates, was competent to support a claim for exemplary
damages; but that a direction to the jury in general terms that
in awarding damages they might add to full compensation for
the injury "such sum for exemplary damages as the case calls
for, depending in a great measure of course upon the conduct
of the defendant," entitled the defendant to a new trial; and
Chief Justice'Ohurch, delivering the unanimous judgment of
the' court, stated the rule as follows: "For injuries by the negligence of a servant While engaged in the business of the mas-

OCTOBER TERMv, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

ter, within the scope of his employment, the latter is liable
for compensatory damages.; but for such negligence, however
gross or culpable, he is not liable to be punished in punitive
damages unless he is also chargeable with gross misconduct:

Such'misconduct may be established by showing that the act
of the servant was authorized or ratified, or that the master
employed or retained the servant, knowing that he was incompetent, or, from bad habits, unfit for the position he occupied.
Something more than ordinary negligence is requisite; it must
be reckless and of a criminal nature, and clearly established.
Corporations may incur this liability as well as private persons. If a railroad company, for instance, knowingly and
wantonly employs a drunken engineer or switchman, or retains
one after knowledge of his habits is clearly brought home
to the company, or to a superintending agent authorized to
employ and discharge him, and injury occurs by reason of
such habits, the company may and ought to be amenable to
the severest rule of damages; but I am not aware of any
principle which permits a jury to award exemplary damages
in a case which does not come up to this standard, or to graduate the amount of such damages by their views of the propriety of the conduct of the defendant, unless such conduct is
of the character before specified." Clegorn v. New York
Central Railroad,56 N. Y. 44, 47, 48.
Similar decisions, denying upon like grounds the liability of
railroad companies and other corporations, sought to be charged
wiwth punitive damages for the wanton or oppressive acts of
their agents or servants,-not participated in or ratified by.the
corporation, have been made by the courts of New Jersey,
Pennsylvania, Delaware, Michigan, Wisconsin, California, Louisiana, Alabama Texas and West Virginia.
It -must be admitted that there is a wide divergence in the
decisions of the state courts upon this question, and that
corporations have been held liable for such damages under
similar circumstances in' New Hampshire, in Maine, and in
many of the Western and Southern States. But of the three
leading cases on that side of the question, Ho~pkin v. Atlantic
& &. Lawrence .Railroad,36 N.. H. 9, can hardly be reconciled

LAKE SHORE &c. RAILWAY CO.. v. PRENTICE. 117
Opinion of the Court.

with the later decisions in Fay v. Parker,53 N. H. 342, and
Bixby v. Dunlap, 56 N. H. 456; and' in Goddard v. 'r~nd
Trunk Railway, 57 Maine, 202, 228, and Atilcnlic & Gcreat
Western, Railway v. Dunn, 19 Ohio St. 162; 590, there were
strong dissenting opinions. In many, if not mbst, of the other
cases, either corporations were put upon diffefent grounds ip.
this respect from other principals, or else the distinction between imputing to the corporation such wrongful act and
intent as would render it liable to make compensation to thd
person injured, and imputing to the corporation' tho intent
necessary to be established in order to subject it to exemiiplar.y
damages by way of punishment, was overlooked or disregarded.
Most of the cases on both sides of the'questi6n, not specifically cited above, are collected in 1: -Sedgwick on Damages,
(Sth ed.) ยง 380.
In the case at bar, the plaintiff does not 'appear to have
contended at the trial, or to have "introduced any evidence
tending to show, that the conductor was known to the.defendant to be an unguitable person in any respect, or that the
defendant in any way participated in, approved or ratified
his treatment of the plaintiff; nor did the instructions given
to the jury require them to be satisfied of any such fact before
awarding punitive damages. But the only fact which they
were required to find, in 'order to 'support a claim for punitive
damages against the corporation, was that the conductor's
illegal conduct was wanton and oppressive. For this error,'
as we cannot know how much of the verdict was intended by
the jury as a compensation for the plaintiff's injury, and how
much by way of punishing the corporation for an intent in,
which it had no part, the'
Judgment &ust be reversed, and the ease remanded to the
Circuit Court, with-directionsto set aside the verdict, and
to Order a new trial.
.m. JusTIcE FILD; -MR. Juvsiicn'HARLAwN and MR. JUSTIc
LAVAiR took no part in this-decision.

