DE LA VERGNE MACHINE CO. v. FEATHERSTONE. 209
Syllabus.

proper, are not contributions to the State or to the city for
the purpose of. enabling eithei to carry on its general administration of affairs, but are a charge only and specially for the
cost for a local improvement, supposed to have resulted in an
enhancement of the value of the railroad company's property.
It is not in lieu of such charges that the company pays annually the stipulated per cent of its gross revenues into the state
treasury.
We see no error in the rulings Zf the Supreme Court of
Illinois, and its judgment is
A ffirmed.
MR. JusTIcE BLATC1FORD took no part in the decision of this
case.

DE LA VERGNE REFRIGERATING MACHINE COMPATY

v. FEATHERSTONE.

CERTIFICATE FROM THE' CIRCUIT COURT OF
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.
No. 1099. Argued November 16,17,1892. -Decided

APPEALS FOR THE

January 9,1893.

A patent for an invention issued to the inventor, "his heirs or assigns,"
after his death, is a valid patent, and should be construed in the alternative as a grant to him, or his heirs or assigns.
Such a construction would include a grantee or grantees in being, capable
of taking the patent and to whose benefit the grant would enure,
In such case an executor de son tort may, in Texas, make an assignment of
an interest in the patent which will convey a valid title to the assignee,
If not repudiated by the executor or administrator of the inventor when
duly appointed, or by his children.
An inventor agreed with an associate to give hhn an interest in a patent for
the invention when issued, and the associate agreed to procure its issue.
The patent was issued after the inventor's death to the inventor by,
name, "his heirs or assigns." His administratrix conveyed to the associate the promised interest, 'and subsequently the remaining interest,
and all persons interested in the estate acquiesced in the conveyances.
Held, that the patent should be construed as a grant to the associate as,
assignee, and should be held to have been obtained by, the authority of
the administratrix as well as of the associate.
Failure, in such case, to record title papers in the Patent Office, it appearing
that the administratrix and the in-part equitable owner had obtalneil the
patent, cannot make the patent void.
vOL. CXLvII-14

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.
When an inventor makes oath to an application for a patent, flied in his lifetime, an amendment to it within the scope of the original oath and of
the invention described in the original specification, made after his death
without filing a new oath or a new power of attorney, is valid, and does
not render the patent void.

Tms was a bill in equity charging appellees with infringement of letters patent of the United States No. 175,020, issued
to "James Boyle, his heirs or assigns," March 21, 1876, for an
improvement in gas-liquefying pumps.
The bill set forth, among other things, a full history of the
proceedings before the Patent Office, and alleged that, shortly
after filing his application for the patent, James Boyle died,
*andthat thereafter his administrator, who was also an assignee
of a half interest, prosecuted the application, paid the final fee,
and took out the patent, it being issued in the name of "James
Boyle, his heirs or assigns."
Appellees demurred generally to the bill, and, the cause
having been heard by the Circuit Court thereon, a decision
was announced sustaining appellees' demurrer, on the ground
that Boyle, having previously died, there was no grantee in
being capable of taking at the time the patent was issued, and
hence that the patent never had any validity. The opinion
will be found reported in 49 Fed. Rep. 916.
A decree was thereupon entered dismissing the bill for want
of equity, and complainant appealed to the Circuit Court of
Appeals for the Seventh Circuit, which entered an order certifying several, questions or propositions of law upon which it
desired the instruction of this court for their proper decision.
These quesiions or proposition of law are as follows:

"On October Y9, 1875, James Boyle, of Houston, Texas,
having made an invention in refrigerating machines, executed
an application for a patent therefor in due form and verified
by the proper oath, and appointed Alexander & -Mason his
attorneys fo prosecute the same, which application was filed
in the Patent Office November 24, 1875.
"Thereafter and on the 27th day of Noyember, 1875, and

DE LA VERGNE

ACHIIWE CO. v. FEATHERSTONE. 211
Statement of the Case.

while said application was still pending in the Patent Office,
James Boyle died, leaving him. surviving a widow and four
children.
"Thereafter the said application was prosecuted by the
said attorneys under the direction of Thomas L. Rankin, who
had been appointed temporary administrator of the estate of
James Boyle, deceased March 9, 1876, and who obtained the
said patent and paid all the Patent Office and solicitors'
fees therefor. The patent issued March 21, 1876, and the
grantees therein expressed were 'James Boyle, his heirs or
assigns.'
"On these facts the instruction of the court is desired upon
the question"1. Whether the grant to James Boyle, his heirs or assigns,
was void because of the death of Boyle before the patent was
issued or whether such grant was valid on the ground that it
should be construed in the alternative as a grant to James
Boyle or his heirs or assigns, the words 'heirs or assigns,'
including a grantee or grantees in being capable of'taking
the patent, and the grant enuring to his or their benefit.
" II.

"Prior to the aforesaid application of James Boyle for a
patent he made a contract with said Thomas L. Rankin by
which Rankin agreed to advance money to apply for and
obtain the patent, and Boyle agreed,to assign to Rankin onehalf interest in the inventidn and patent.
"On December 2, 1875, after the death of James Boyle
and while the application for the patent was pending in the
Patent Office, Rankin made an agreement with Theresa
Boyle, the widow of James Boyle, then acting as executriK de
son tort, in the words and figures following:
"'HousTox, TEXAS, December 2, 1875.
"'Artlea of Agreemzent Between, T. I. Rankin and .At8s.
James Boyle.
""T.-L. Rankin of the .1irst part, agrees to complete the ice
ma4chine commenced by himself and James Boyle and to pro-

OCTOBER TERM, -1892.
Statement of the Case.

vide for Mrs. Boyle while said machine is under construction
until next spring, say May first, and also to press the applica-.
tion for patents on the part of said machine claimed by James
Boyle and in case said machine-is a success, and said patents
are obtained, is to use his best efforts to introduce the same,
and to divide with Mrs. Boyle the profits of said business
until she shall have received five thousand dollars for her
share; after which, Airs. James Boyle agrees to release any
further interest in said patents to be obtained and the machines
then in use, and from this date, agrees that the said T. L.
Rankin shall operate and 'control any interest James Boyle
had pertaining to ice machines, together.with his interest
in the Arctic Ice Company. Stock to vote, proxy of same.
"'T.L..RAs:m.
'THERESA BOYLE.

"'Witness: W. T. ScoTT.'

"After the grant of the patent as above stated, and on the
18th day of July, 1876, the issue of temporary letters of
administration to Rankin were superseded by the appointment of the said Theresa Boyle as permanent administratrix.
She thereafter filed an inventory of her husband's estate, in
which she included the patent in question as held and owned
jointly with Thomas L. Rankin.
"Neither Theresa Boyle, nor her children nor Thomas L.
Rankin ever repudiated the proceedings whereby said patent
was obtained, but enjoyed the beneficial ownership thereof,
and sold their interests therein for a valuable consideration.
"On these facts the instruction of the court is desired as to
the fdlowing questions:
SC2. Whether t6e alove-quoted instrument should, under
the above facts, be construed as an assignment to Thomas L.
Rankin.
"3.' Whether the patent should be construed as a grant to
Thomas L. Rankin,as assignee.
"4-. Whether, under the above-recited facts, the patent
sliould- be held to be obtained by the authority of Theresa
Boyle as administratrix as well as of Thomas L. Rankin.

DE LA VERGNE MACHINE CO. v. FEATHERSTONE. 213
Statement of the Case. -

"III.
"During the proceedings in the Patent Office, and after
the death of James Boyle, the specification, originally filed
with said application for a patent was amended within the
scope of the original oath and the invention described in said
original specification and by way of linitation of the claims,
but without the filing of any new oath or power of attorney.
"5. Did such"amendment render the patent void?
"6. Is the patent void because no oath was fl1d after
Boyle's death?
"It also appearing that the cause of action below was dis*pbsed of upon a demurrer filed to appellant's bill and exhibits,
which demurrer the court below sustained and .dismissed the
bill, and no witnesses being examined in said cause, it is
further ordered that the record as printed in this cause be also
certified up as a full statement of facts upon which the questions. and propositions stated for the instruction desired from
the Supreme Court of the United States are -based, and the
clerk of this court is hereby directed to transmit to the clerk
of the Supreme Court of the United States a certified copy of
said record, together with this certificate."7
Sections 4884, 4886, 4895 and 4896 of. the Revised Statutes
are as follows:
"1S~c. 4884. Every patent shall contain a short title or
description of the invention or discovery, correctly indicating
its nature and design, and a grant to the patentee, his heixs or
assigns, for the term of seventeen years, of the exclusive right
to make, use and vend the invention or discovery throughout
the United States, and the Territories thereof, referring to the
specification for the particulars thereof. A copy of the specification and drawings shall be annexed to the patent and be a
parxt thereof."
"1SEc. 4886. Any person who has invented or discovered
any new and useful art, machine, manufacture or composition
of matter, or any new and useful improvement thereof,, not
known or used by others in this country, and not patented or
described in any printed publication in this or any foreign
country, before -his invention or discovery thereof, and not in

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Argument for Appellees.

public use or on sale for more than two years prior to his
application, unless the same is proved to have been abandoned,
may, upon payment of the fees required by law, and other
due proceedings had, obtain a patent therefor."
"S1Ec. 4895. Patents may be granted and issued or reissued
to the assignee of the inventor or discoverer; but the assignment must first be entered of record in the Patent Office.
And in all cases of an application by an assignee for the issue
of a patent, the application shall be made and the specification
sworn to by the inventor or discoverer; and in all cases of an
application for a reissue of any patent, the application must
be made and the corrected specification signed by the inventor
or discoverer, if he is living, unless the patent was issued and
the assignment made before the eighth day of July, eighteen'
hundred and seventy.
"Se. 4896. When any person, having made any new invention or discovery for which a patent might have been granted,
dies before a patent is granted, the right of applying for and
obtaining the patent shall devolve on his executor or administrator, in trust for the beirs at law of the.deceased, in case he
shall have died intestate; or if he shall have left a will, dis.posing of the same, then in trust for his devisees, in as full
manner and on the same terms and conditions as the same
might have been claimed or enjoyed by him in his lifetime;
and when the application is made by such legal representatives, the oath or affirmation required to be made shall be so
varied in form that it can be made by them."
-Mr. E hraim Banning and -Mr. EdM und Wetmore for
appellant. (A r. -HubertA. Banning was with them on the
brief.)
.'.

Solicitor General also. filed a brief for appellant.

.Mr. L; I. Bond, (with whom was -Mr. C.. -. Pickard on
the brief,) for appellees.
L The patent in question is void because it issued in the
usual form to James Boyle, who was dead at the time of the

DE LA VERGNE MACHINE CO. v. FEATHERSTONE. 215
Argument for Appellees.

granting of said letters patent, and the Circuit Court was
right in sustaining the demurrer.
All rights and remedies of inventors are based upon the
constitution and statutes, which must be followed in order to
obtain a valid patent. Gayler v. Tilder, 10 How. 477, 493;
'lRson v. Rousseau, 4 Hnlow. 646, 674.
The statutes of the United States recognize only three
classes of persons to whom letters patent for an invention
may issue: (1) the inventor himself, Rev. Stat. § 4886; (2) an
assignee of the inventor, where an assignment is made before
the issuing of the letters patent, Rev. Stat. § 4895; and
(3) the personal representatives of the inventor, Rev. Stat.

§4896.
It may be claimed that this grant to "James Boyle, his
heirs or assigns," should be construied as a grant to the personal representative of James Boyle, James Boyle having
died pending the application. This cannot be. Eagleton
Manufacturing Co. v. West, 111 U. S. 490, 499. One cannot
obtain by a so-called equitable construction of a grant what
he could not legally obtain by direct grant.
Letters patent for an invention are a grant from the sovereign power, creating a monopoly for a limited period. The
word was originally used in England to describe written instruments, emanating from the king, whereby lands, honors
or franchises were conferred upon individuals. In this respect
the grant of letters patent for inventions are not distinguished
from other grants under the royal prerogative. To be sure, the
property in such letters patent is regarded as personal property. But it is an "incorporeal" property, and differs from
most other personal property in that it "lies in grant and not
-in livery" -it is created by grant, under the great seal of
state, and can be created in no other way, as is the case with
all grants under the royal prerogative.
When created, this property can be transferred only by
grant, i.e., by deed of assignment, and not by delivery of
possession, as is the case with other personal property. While,
therefore, the property right is "personal property" rather
than "real estate," under one of which two heads all property

OCTOBER TERME, 1892.
Argument for Appellees.

is somewhat artificially classed, yet this property more nearly
resembles the so-called "incorporeal hereditaments" of the
law. than the tangible things generally classed as personal
property; the great difference being that one is incorporeal,
the other corporeal; the one can be. created and transferred
only-by deed or grant in writing, the other can be transferred
by mere delivery of possession. Indeed, it was because of the
fact that personal property could be transferred by mere
delivery of possessidn and carried away by the grantee, whose
person it followed, that the old rules of common law as to the
word!" heirs" became inapplicable to the transfer of corporeal
personal property. But in the case of property in a patent,
which can be created and transferred only by grant and deed
of assignment, a kind of property is found which comes in its
nature really between "land" or "real estate" and corporeal
personal property, and which more closely resembles, as we
have said, the "incorporeal hereditaments" of the common
law than it does the tangible things of which personal property was originally made up.
Coming back, then, to a consideration of this proposition,
we insist that a patent for an invention i a grant by the
State of the exclusive privilege of making, using and vending it, and authorizing others to make, use and vend it. It
differs from other letters patent only in the nature of the
subject-matter of the grant. See .Yarbury v. .adison, 1
Oranch, 131, 141, and Butterworth v. foe, 112 U. S, 50,
where the court considered letters patent for inventions and
letters patent for lands together, as being grants of similar
nature, and subject to the same rules and laws.
Now it is, and always has been, requisite to a grant in
prrsenti.(which letters patent for inventions are) that there
should be a grantee in, esse, to take at the time of the grant.
It is absolutely essential to the validity of a grant or deed
that there should be a grantor and a grantee a person
capable of granting and a person capable of taking. A
grant in prmsenti must be to a person in esse at the time of
the grant.
Following this old rule of law, the -Supreme Court of

DE LA VERGNE MACHINE CO. . FEATHERSTONE. 217
Argument for Appellees.

the United States, in the case of Galloway v.Finley, 12 Pet.
264, held that a patent of land to a dead man and his heirs
was void. In the case of, Galt v. Galloway, 4 Pet. 332, the
Supreme Court of the United States, pp. 344, 345, held that
under the laws of the United States the location of land in
the name of a man deceased at the time of the location was
absolutely void. The same ruling was made in the case of"
-McDonald v. Smalley, 6 Pet. 261. Under the principles
which we contend for, if a grant of land to a person not in
emse at the time of the grant is void, the grant of letters
patent to a man not in esse a 5 the time of their issue is void.
It appears from the bill that James Boyle was dead at
the time of the grant of the"letters patent in question; he
was therefore not i,&esse, and under the decisions we submit
that if the letters patent are to be considered'a grant to
James Boyle, there can be no pbssible doubt but that the
patent in question is absolutely void, ab initio. Indeed this
does not seem to be seriously questioned.
The controversy in this case, so far as this point goes, than
turns upon the word "heirs "in the statute and in the letters
patent. What does the word "heirs " mean? Is it descriptive of a class of persons to whom in the alternative the right
shall go, or is it a word which defines the nature of. the
estate which the grantee shall take? Is it a .word of "purchase" or a word in "limitation (i.e., definition) of the
estate?" If the first position be the correct one, then the
patent might be, were it not for the statutes above considered,
valid; if the second, then it is void because the word adds
no new class to take as a "€purchaser," or grantee. We
maintain that the second is the true construction to plade
upon the statute and upon the letters patent; that the word
"his heirs" name no new class to take as grantees in case ofthe inability, from death or otherwise,, of thb patentee to
take; that they are words of "limitation of the estate and
not words of purchase." See Wilson v. Rousseau, 4 How.
646, 65.
The sole purpose of using the word "heirs" in the statute
and the letters patent is, to prevent the grant from being

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Argument for Appellees.

determined by the death of the patentee. Upon no other
construction of the statute can the word "heirs" be giveii any
meaning, and it is a settled principle of statutory construction
that a statute must be construed so as to give effect to every
word, if possible.
Again, that the word "heirs," as used in the :Revised
Statutes, § 48841, and in letters patent themselves, is a word
of "limitation of an estate" and not a word of "purchase,"
is evident from the lofig line of decisions which hold that
upon the death of the patentee the title to the patent goes
not to the heirs themselves, but to the personal representative of the deceased, in trust for his heirs or devisees. If
the word "heirs" were to be construed as a word of purchase, then, being "purchasers," they would be the ones
who would-take the title; and yet it has been universally
held by all the courts that the title goes to the personal
representative in trust for the heirs, and not to the heirs
directly. Shaw Relief 'Vave Co. v. .Vew Bedford, 19" Fed.
Rep. 753; Bradley v. Dull, 19 Fed. Rep. 913; Hodge v.
.North hfissouri Railroad,4 Fish. 161.
It seems clear, therefore, that the patent must be construed
as reading to "James Boyle and his heirs or assigns" - to
"James Boyle and his heirs," if he dies without assigning, or
to his assigns when he shall assign it.
I. The certificate recites an agreement between T. L.
Ranldn and Theresa Boyle, dated December 2, 1875. James
Boyle died November 27, 1875, and at the date of this contract there was no administrator. Rankin was appointed
temporary administrator March 9, 1876, and Mis. Boyle full
administratrix July 5, 1876. The second question upon which
instruction is desired is, "Whether the above quoted instrument should, under the above facts, be construed as an assignment to Thomas L. Rankin."
This does not appear to be a difficult question, if the court
is called to pass upon the contract alone. But it was contended, and doubtless will be again, that under this paper
Rankin was entitled to the patent when it issued, as the
assignee of James Boyle. - We do not see how this contract

DE LA VERGNE MACHINE CO. v. FEATHERSTONE. 219
Argument for Appellees.

can be made available by appellant, because if Rankin was
the assignee, the patent should have issued under section 4895,
which is special to assignees, instead of under the general
clause, section 4884-, as it was.
There is no sense in which this paper can be classed or
treated as an assignment, and there is no allegation in the
bill that Rankin ever paid Mrs. Boyle five thousand dollars;
and therefore, upon the showing of the bill itself, this paper
is null and void; and has never been so far operative as to
enable IRankin to demand an assignment of the patent under
it. Railroad Co. v. Timble,'10 Wall. 367, 382.
As to what constitutes an assignment see Waterman v.
.ffackenzie, 138 U. S. 255. That the Rankin agreement is
not an assignment of that kind is fully supported by that case
and by Rice v. Boss, 46 Fed. Rep..195.
HI. The patent sued on is void, because the application was
amended in the Patent Office, pending allowance, after the
death of James Boyle, without authority, and without any
new application or oath by his personal representatives.
We contend that the patent so issued is void, for the following reasons: (1) Because it was not issued upon any petition
or oath of the personal representative. .Egleton Mfanufacturing Co. V. West Janufacturing Co., 111 U. S. 490; (2) Because the application was changed without authority after the
death of the applicant. Ibid.; (3) Because Alexander &
-Mason acted as attorneys in the application without right
or authority. Hunt v. Rousmanier, 8 Wheat. 174: to 232;
(4) Because acting as attorneys for a dead man is a manifest
absurdity. Ibid.p. 203; (5) Because it does not ekange matters
by reason of the fact that Alexander & Mason signed their owl
names instead of Boyle's to the amendment, as their act, however signed, must be the act of the principal, and having no
principal, the act was void. Ibid. p. 204; (6) Because a changed
or varied specification cannot be related back to the original
specification. Railroad Co. v. Sayle&, 97 U. S. 554, 563;
(7), An application file is a public record which every one is
bound to know. Zoom Co. v. Higgins, -105 U. S. 580, 5941;
(8) Because the appellant is as much bound by the record as

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

the "appellees are, and both parties are presumed to have
acted with full knowledge that they were dealing with or
operating under a void patent; (9) Becauseequity does not
relieve against mistake of law except in cases where some
legal right is ignorantly surrendered, which rule cannot apply
here, as the statute provides a remedy and clearly points out
the manner of procedure; (10) Because all rights to a patent
are purely statutory, and no common law rights attach until
the patent itself is actually issued.
M .CHIEF JusTIcE FULLEB, after stating the case, delivered
the opinion of the court:
The grant was to "James Boyle, his heirs or assigns," and
in this followed the language of section 4884 of the Revised
Statutes. But although Boyle made the application, be was
dead at the time the patent issued, and it was therefore held
by the Circuit Court that the patent was utterly void for
want of a grantee.
The reasoning of the court was that all the rights and
remedies of inventors to the exclusive property in' their inventions.come from the statute, and that under' sections 4886,
4895 and 4896 only three classes of persons are recognized to
whom a patent for an invention can issue, namely: The inventor himself; the assignee of the inventor, when the assignment is made before the issue of the patent; and the executor
or administrator of the inventor if he dies before the patent is
granted; that a patent for an invention is a grant for the
exclusive privilege of making, using and vending, and authorizing others to make, use and vend, an invention; and that just as
the term was originally used in England, to describe written
instruments emanating from the King, sealed with the great
seal, whereby lands, honors or franchises were conferred upon
individuals, so it is used in this country as descriptive of an
instrument whereby some exclusive right is granted by the
sove~eigo power to the person named therein. Hence, continued the court, a patent for an invention is a grant and must
have a grantor and a grantee. It must grant the franchise

DE LA VERGNE -MACHINE CO. -v. FEATHEERSTONE. 221
Opinion of the Court.

or monopoly to a person named and who is capable of taling,
and in this respect a patent does not differ from a patent or
deed for lands. And as a deed to a person not then living
and his heirs would be void, since, the word heirs being one
of limitation and not of purchase, there is no person to take
under it, so a patent for an invention to a dead man is wholly
inoperative, and such must be the construction of a patent
issued.under section 4884 to the patentee his,"heirs or assigns,
when the patentee thus named is dead, at the date of the
grant.,
The conclusion reached re~ts upon the astumption that the
form of grant specified in section 4881 can only be pursued
when the inventor is living, and that the intention of Congress
was that the personal representatives of the inventor could
not be treated as grantees under that section.
We are to remember that it is to be assumed that James
Boyle had made a useful invention and taken all the necessary
steps to secure the benefits to be derived therefrom, and that
in view of the policy of the government to encourage genius
and promote the progress of the useful arts, by securing to
the inventor a fair and reasonable remuneration, a liberal
construction in favor of those who claim .under him must -be
adopted in the solution of the principal question before us.
It is - also to be observed that, under the practice of the
Patent Office, a considerable time necessarily elapses after a
patent for an invention is allowed before it actually issues;
that the applicants often reside at a great distance; that the
cases when an-inventor dies between the date of the application and the allowance, and the allowance and the issue, must
be of frequent occurrence; and that this may happen when
neither the office nor the inventor's solicitors are aware of the
death. The reflection is a natural one that Congress, which,
in framing the provisions of the patent laws, must be presumed to have had these possible. occurrences in mind, did
not contemplate that all patents issued'under such -circumstances should be invalidated by the death of the inventor.
What, then, was the intention of Congress in providing for
a grant to the "1patentee, his heirs or assigns ?" Must. it be

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

construed as merely a personal grant to the individual, or may
his personal representatives be treated as grantees ?
'"The words ' heirs,' and 'heirs of his body,'" says Mr.
Williams, "are quite inapplicable to personal estate; the heir,
as heir, has nothing to do with the. personal property of his
ancestor. Such property has nothing hereditary in its nature,
but simply belongs to its owner for the time being. Hence,
a gift of personal property to A. simply, without more, is
sufficient to vest in him the absolute interest. Whilst, under
the very same words, he would acquire a life interest only in
real estate, he will become absolutely entitled to personal
property." Williams' Pers. Prop. 297.
The privileges granted by letters patent are plainly an
instance of an incorporeal kind of personal property, which,
as personalty, in.the absence of context to the contrary,
would go to the executor or administrator in trust for the
next of kin. Williams' Executdrs, 817; Schouler's Executors,
§ 200; Williams' Pers. Prop. 271; Pattersonv. .:entucky, 97
U. S. 501; Zlillar v. Taylor, 4 Burrow, 2303; Shaw Belief
Valve Co. v. New -Redford,19 Fed. Rep. 753.
The rule in Shelley's Case was that when an estate of freehold is limited to a person for life, and the same instrument
contains a limitation either mediate or immediate to his heirs
or the heirs of his body, the word heirs is a word of linfiftation,
and the grantee takes the whole estate either in fee tail or fee
simple. This is a rule -of law, and not a. rule of construction.
Evans v. Evans, [1892], 2 Oh. 173, 184, 188. It applies to
nothing- but real estate, and if resorted to in connection with
personal estate, it is only by way of analogy, and as a rule of
construction in order to promote the intention.
We do not perceive any sound reason for holding that the
word "h eirs" in a patent for an invention should be regarded
the patentee's own interest in
as a definition of the extent
the patent. There is nothing technical in the word as used.
It indicates persons who are to have the benefit in the event
of death, but the absolute character of the interest of the
patentee is not attributable to it. The words in the statute,
"the patentee, his heirs or assigns," whether construed accord-of

DE LA VERGNE MACHINE CO. v.FEATH-ERSTONE. 223
Opinion of the Court.

ingto the rules of grammar, or to the evident intent of Congress, mean "the patentee or his heirs or assigns." They
comprehend the legal representatives, assignees in law and
assignees in fact, and the phraseology raises no limitation in
the sense of the strict common-law rule applied to realty.
It is said that if the word "heirs" were not used in the
grant, the patent would end with the life of the patentee, and
would have no descendible or inheritable quality, but we are
not persuaded that this would be so, any more than- that the
omission of the word from any transfer of personal property
would have that effect. The exercise of the right vested is
not in its nature dependent upon 'the continued existence of
the person whose merit earned the reward.. The statute has
long been that "the patentee" may obtain an extension in
certain cases, without adding that his executors or administrators may do this, (Act 1836, 5 Stat. 117, 124, c. 357, § 18 ;
Act 1870, 16 Stat. 198, 208, c. 230, § 63; Rev. Stat. § 4924;)
yet it was decided that an executor or administrator can
obtain an exifension, TMilson v. Rousseau, 4 How. 646; and
that the extended term is assignable, although not expressly
so provided. Nicolson .Pavement Co. v. Jenkins, 14 Wall.
452; Railroad 0o. v. T'imble, 10 Wall. 367. And so, that a
patent issued to an inventor after an assignment of his entire
interest has been entered of record, immediately and by operation oa law enures to the benefit of his assignee. Gayler v.
Wilder, 10 How.*477.
If the patent had issued to Boyle when living, although an
assignment of his entire interest had been recorded before,
the patent would have enured to the benefit of the assignee,
and it is difficult to see why, if Boyle died prior to the issue
of the patent and after he had made the application and
assigned his interest, the assignee should lose the benefit of
the assignment because of the death.
Under section 4896, when the inventor dies before the
patent is granted, the right of applying for and obtaining the
patent devolves upon his executor or administrator in trust
for his heirs at law or legatees, and doubt'has been. suggested
as to the applicability of the section when the death transpires

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

after the application has been filed, but the rulings and practice
of the Patent Office are to the effect that in -the latter contingency no new application need be made or new fee be paid,
but the executor or administrator may file his letters and the
case be disposed of as if the applicant had not died. Rice v.
Burt, Dec. Com. Pat. 1879, p. 291; Ex 2 arte Smith, Dec.
'Com. Pat. 1888, p. 24.
Neither this section nor section 4895, providing that patents
may be granted and issued, or reissued, to the assignee of the
inventor or discoverer, prescribe any form of grant, which is
alone to be found in section 4884. The statute does not require
the patent to issue under section 4896 to the executor or administrator, and inasmuch as a patent is personal propierty,
and as such goes to the executor or administrator, in trust for
the next of kin, it would appear that this result would follow
where the grant is to the patentee, his heirs or assigns.
Sections 4895 and 4896 cover cases where the application is
made by the legal representatives or assignees, but where the
application is made by the inventor, and he dies, a grant in
the terms stated apparently accomplishes all the objects aimed
at by both these sections.
Section 1 of the act of 1790 provided for a grant to "the
petitioner or petitioners, his, her or their heirs, administrators
or assigns," (1 Stat. 109, 110,) and the act of February 21,
1793, was in the same language. (1 Stat. 318, 321.) Section
5 of the act of 1836 read that the patent should "in its terms
grant to the applicant or applicants, his or their heirs, administrators, executors, or assigns," etc. (5" Stat. 117, 119.) The
statute of 1870 required the patent to contain "a grant to the
patentee, his heirs or assigns," (16 Stat. 198, 201,) which is
carried forward into section 4884 of the Revised Statutes.
As rermarked by Judge Lowell in Shiaw Belief VFalve Co.
v. Ihew Bedford, ubi supra, the omission of the word "executors" prior to 1836 did not affect the title of the executors,
nor did the omission of "administrators and executors" from
the act of 1870 make any difference. "The law- was not
changed by it." . Taking the sections together, the legislative
intent seems to have been that a grant to the patentee, his

DE LA VERGNE MACHINE CO. v. FEATHERSTONE. 225
Opinion of the Court.

heirs or assigns, should vest title in the executor or administratr where the death occurred pending the application. If
there be no executor or administrator, or letters of such are
not recorded, still the general form of grant prescribed in
section 4884 is applicable, and the patent may run to "the
patentee, his heirs or assigns." The statute does not make it
imperative that the patent shall issue in the name of the executor or administrator, the grant under section 4884 being
sufficient to vest title in the patentee's legal representative,
whether he be administrator, executor or assignee. If there
are adverse claims of heirs and legatees, they may be left to
be determined by the courts in whose jurisdiction they arise,
rather than hy the Patent'Office. It is enough if it is found
that the patent is proper to be granted, and it is so granted
to'the personal representatives of the deceased.
Sections 4895 and 4896 designate who should make the oath
in case of death or assignment, but where the application has
been made in the lifetime of the inventor, and remains in
effect unchanged, there is no necessity for a new application
or oath, except, of course, in the case of a reissue; and, as we
have seen, a grant to the patentee, his heirs or assigns, sufficiently designates in whom the title to the patent shall vest
in case of assignment or death.
In view of these considerations, as the language of the
statute admits of a construction which, 'in sustaining the
grant, effectuate; the settled policy 'of the government in
favor of inventors, our judgment is that that construction
should be adopted, and that the statute should be read in the
alternative, and the grant be treated as made to the patentee
or his heirs or assigns. This conclusion is supported by the
practice advisedly adopted in the Land Office, (another braiich
of the Executive department known as -that of the Interior,)
of using disjunctive terms for the purpose of preventing the
defeat of grants by the death of the original grantee. 'In
Hogan v.'Page, 2 Wall. 605, 607, the court, speaking through
Mr. Justice Nelson,' said:
"A difficulty had occurred at the Land Office, at an early
day, in respect to the form of patent certificates and .of
voL. cxLvi-15

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

patents, arising out of applications to have them issued in the
name of the assignee, or present claimant, thereby imposing,
upon the office the burden of inquiring into the derivative
title presented by the applicant. This difficulty, also, existed
in respect to the boards of commissioners under the acts of
Congress for the settlement of French and Spanish claims.
The result seems to have been, afte consulting the Attorney
General, that the Comhissioner of the Land Office recommended a formula that has since been very generally observed,
namely, the issuing of the patent certificate, and even the
patent, to the original grantee, or his legal representatives,
and the same has been adopted by the several boards of commissioners.- This formula, 'or his legal representatives;' embraces representatives of the original grantee in the land, by
contract, such as assignees or grantees, as well as by operation
of law, and leaves the question open to inquiry in a court of
justice as to the party to whom the certificate, patent or
confirmation should enure."
And see Carpenter v. Rannels, 19 Wall. 138; Bowman v.
Long, 89 Illinois, 19; Warnec76 -. Lembec, 71 Illinois, 91;
Read v. Kearsley, 14 Michigan, 215, 225 ; Grand Guo -Railroad v. Bryan, 8 Sm. & Marsh. 234.
The action spoken of by Mr. Jutice Nelson was evidently
taken in order to prevent hardships occurring under the old
form of land grants, as indicated in Galloway v. -inley, 12
Pet. 264, and other cases; but no such action was considered
necessary in reference to invention patents, although the same
reason might have existed if the same form had originally
been prescribed.
•It appears from the certificate that James Boyle died on
November 27, 1875, and that the application was thereafter
.prosecuted by the attorneys who had been previously appointed by him for that purpose, under the direction4 of
Thomas 1. Rankin, who had been appointed temporary administrator of Boyle's estate, March 9, 1876, and who obtained
the patent and paid all the Patent Office and solicitors' fees
therefor. It is also stated that prior to Boyle's application
he had made a contract with Rankin, by which it was agreed

DE LA VERGNE MACHINE CO. v. FEATHERSTOAKE. 227
Opinion of the Court.

that the latter should advance the money to apply for and
obtain the patent, and Boyle should assign to'Rankin a onehalf interest in the invention and patent; and that -on December 2, 1875, Rankin made an agreement with Theresa Boyle,
the widow of James Boyle, "then acting as executrix de son
tort," by virtue of which R~ankin was to acquire the right to
the whole patent. Under the statutes of Texas a temporary
administrator possesses the rights and powers of a general
administrator so far as expressly confided to him by the order
of appointment. 1 Sayles' Tex. Civ. Stat. 584.
The failure to record the title papers in the Patent Office,
it appearing that the administrator and equitable, owner in
part obtained the patent, cannot, in the view we take of the
case, make the patent void. The identity of the grantee
might be determined by extrinsic testimony. If the grant
be construed as made directly to the heirs, executors, administrators or assigns of Boyle, there can be no doubt as to its
validity, even though when the patent issued it was not made
to appear who they were.
The case of Eagleton .Manufacturing Co. v. TFest, 111 U. S.
490, is cited to the proposition that, where the inventor dies, a
patent is invalid when not issued upon the application and oath
of his personal representative, but in that case the application
was so amended after the inventor's death that it was equivalent to a new application, yet none such had been made, nor
had the adminitratrix made the oath rendered necessary
under such circumstances. In the case at bar the application
remained in substance unchanged and no new application or
oath was essential to jurisdiction.
We ought, perhaps, to add that in our opinion the patent
would not be absolutely void, even if the objections takeii by
appellees were better founded than we hold they are. If the
proceedings in the Patent Office may be considered as analogous to the condition of a pending suit at law upon the death
of the plaintiff, the great weight of authority in this country
is to the effect that where the court has acquired jurisdiction
of the subject-matter and the person during the lifetime of a
party, a judgment for or against a dead man is not wholly

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

void or open to collateral attack. It is very rarely that pro.
ceedings are wholly void and without force or effect as to all
persons.and for all purposes, and therefore incapable of being
or being made otherwise; and we are entirely clear that this
patent cannot be treated as falling within that class.
The record shows, as we have said, the -existence. of a con'tract between iankin and Boyle, by which -the latterjwa&toadvance the money to apply for. and obtain the pateot for ah'lf interest, and that Rankin carried. out the contract -on his
part. The agreement between 'Rankin and the ,widow, then
acting as'having a '-olorable right, to administer,isalso set
out, under which Mrs. Boyle a-e'e-d -tht as goon as she sLouldreceive five thousand 'd6liars in the wayspecified she would
"reIease any frlrtber interest in said patents. to be obtained,
and the machines then in use." Rankin was appointed tenporary- administrator, karch 9, 1876,-anid on 'Jbly 18, 1876;the tem-pOrary letters of - -cin-itration issu6d" to R~nkin
"were superseded by the appointment of the saidkTheresa
Boyle as permanent administratrix. She thereafter Medan-inventory, of her husband's estate, in_which she .included the
-latent inquestion as held and oivned-jointly with Thomas L.
iRankin. INeitfer Theresa-Boyle, nor her children nor Thomas
L. Rankin ever repudiated'the proceedings whereby said-patent
was obtained, but enjoyed the beneficial ownership-th-ereof,
and sold their interest therein for a valuable consideration...
When Mrs. Boyle "took out the letters of administration,
her prior acts, presumably upon this record beneficial to the
-estate and certainly not such as appellees have any right to
* complain of, should be viewed in the same light as 'though
she had been made administratrix upon the death of -her -husband. And upon' the facts stated, without disciissing th6e
particular nature of the instrument of December' 2, 1875, we
conclude that Ranldn acquired under'the two contracts the
equitable title to the patent; and the circumstance that
there was no record evidence of the transaction in the Patent
Office made no difference, in the absence of question as to
the rights of third parties. The patent, therefore, enured to
his benefit. Itartshorn v. Day, 19 Hlow. 211; Day v. Union

DE LA VERGNE MACHINE CO. v. FEATHERSTONE. 229
Opinion of the Court.

Indi4 Rubber Co., 20 How. 16; Gayler v. .ilder,,10 How.
477.
Boyle made the oath to the application filed in his lifetime
in accordance with section 4892 of the Revised Statutes, and
the certificate states that after his death "the specification
originally filed with said application for a patent was amended
within the scope of the original oath and the invention described in said original specification, and by way of limitation
of the claims, but without the filing of any new oath or power
of attorney." In Eagletom Xanufactuiing Co. v. West .Aknufaeturing Co., 111 U. S. 490, 498, before referred to, the patent
was held invalid because the authority given to Eagleton's
attorneys ended at his death, and the patent was granted upon
amendments made by the attorneys without any new oath by
the administratrix. And Mr. Justice Blatchford, speaking
for the court, said that the file wrapper showed, "beyond
doubt, that there was no suggestion, in the specification signed
and sworn to by Eagleton, of the invention described in the
amendment," and that "in view of the entire change in the
specification, as to: the invention described, the patent, to be
valid, should have been granted on an application made and
sworn to by the administratrix. The specification,: as issued,
bears the signature of Eagleton and not of the administratrix,
and it is sufficiently shown that the patent was granted on the
application and oath of Eagleton, and for -an invention which,
he never made." •
In the case at bar, there was not only no amplification of
the original application by the- amendment, but it was within
the scope of the original specification and a limitation and
narrowing of the original claim, so- that it was the identical
invention sworn to by Boyle, and there was no more reason
for requiring a new oath from his administratrix than there
would have been for req'uiring it from Boyle himself. The
attorneys who had acted for Boyle continued to act under
Rankin's direction, and although it is not shown that their
'authority was conferred in writing by a power of attorney
executed and filed. in accordance with the rules of the office,
that is not a fatal objection, since-the attorneys had authority.

