UNITED STATES v. PAYNE.
Syllabus.

he becomes entitled, under another clause of the section, to an
additional fee of from $5 to $50.
It is insisted, however, that Rev. Stat. ยง 831, prohibiting a
double per-diem or other allowance for attendance "when the
Circuit and District Courts sit at the same time," should be
construed as indicating that Congress intended to legislate
against double per-diems in all cases, and that it should be
extended to cases like this where the per-diem is claimed for
services before a commissioner, on the same day that it is
allowed for attendance upon the court. Upon the contrary,
we think it clear'that Congress did not intend to forbid a
double per-diem in such cases, and that the maxim, expressw
'unsus est exclusw altermus, should apply Indeed, we- have
just held in United States v Zing, (ante, 676,) that this statute should be limited to Circuit and District Courts sitting not
only at the same time, but at the same place, and that where
the Circuit Court was sitting at one place in the district and
the District Court at'another, the clerk was entitled.to his perdiem ih the one case, and his deputy to a per-diem in the other.
The relative importance of the service rendered by the District
Attorney in court and before a com, issioner is of no significance. In the one case the per-diem is for attendance. though
no service be rendered, in the other there must be an examination conducted or a proceeding taken incidental thereto, as
was held in Unzted States v .Zing, last above cited.
The judgment of the court below is, therefore,
A'pvmedl.

UNITED STATES v. PAYNE.
APPEAL F OM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
Wo. 673. Submitted January 9, 1893.

Decided March 6, 1893.

A clerk of a Circuit or District Court is entitled to fees for making dockets
and indexes, taxing costs, etc., in suits upon manufacturers' bonds under
the- internal revenue law where issue was joined and testimony given.

OCTOBER TERMf, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.
also for entering orders of court for alias f. fa. and for venditioni.
exponas, one folio each. also for making record entries of recognizances
of defendants, or of entering and filing such recognizances, but not for
both. also for making docket entries and indexes in cases of set.fa. and
other proceedings where issue was joined. also for entering orders
approvung the accounts of officers of the court, and filing duplicate
accounts also for entering separate orders of court excusing jurors,
entering orders of court to issue subpoenas, and entering an order for
aliascalp as when such orders are made by the court aild the fees allowed,
and also for drawing recogaizances of defendants.
He is not entitled to fees for filing vouchers nor for making dockets and
indexing where no indictment is found nor for attendance upon the
District Court as a jury commissioner in drawing jurors.

Tais was a petition for fees by the clerk of the District
and Circuit Courts of the United States for the Western
District of North Carolina. The petition averred that the
accounts had been duly presented to the accounting officers
of the Treasury, and payment thereof refused, although such
accounts had been duly presented and approved by the court
in accordance with law The court found the facts in favor
of the petitioner and directed judgment in his behalf for
$538.50, and the United States appealed. As the court found
a large number of items in favor of the petitioner, the allowance of which is not now disputed, it is unnecessary to set
forth the finding in full.
.Mrn Felix Brannigan and _Yr
appellants.

Solicitor General for

.Mr Charles . Iancaster for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE

BRowN delivered the opinion of the court.

The assignments of error in this case relate to several petty
items claimed to have been illegally allowed by the court
below
1. For making dockets and indexes, taxing costs, etc., m
various suits, upon manufacturers' bonds under the internal
revenue law, where issue was joined and testimony given, for
which petitioner claimed $3 in each case. Revised Statutes,

UNITED STATES v. PAYNE.
Opmion of the Court.

ยง 828, allows a fee of $3 "for making dockets and indexes,
issuing venire, taxing costs, and all other services, on the trial
or argument of a cause where issue is joined and testimony
given,"' and $2 for similar services "in a cause where issue is
joined, but no testimony is given," and $1 "in a cause which
is dismissed or discontinued, or where judgment. or decree is
made or rendered without issue." Objection is made to the
taxation of three dollars in this case upon the ground that it
does not appear that the testimony was given "on the trial
or argument 2"of the cause. If the allowance depended upon
the first clause alone, it might. be claimed with reason that it
would be no hardship upon a public officer, who is entirely
familiar with the statute, to bring himself within its terms,
and to make it clearly appear that the services were rendered
on the trial or argument of the cause, but as the second
clause is limited to cases where issue has been joined, but no
testimony is given, and as, in this case, the issue was joined
and testimony was given, we think it a reasonable inference
that it was the intention of Congress to allow $3 in such casei
or that it may be assumed that the testimony was given upon
the trial or argument of the case, as required by the first
clause. This item should, therefore, be allowed.
2. For entering orders of court for alias ยง. /a., and for
venditioni eapon=, one folio each. While a writ of aliasft.
fa. is ordinarily issued upon a simple precipe, it is perfectly
competent for the district attorney to apply to the court for
an order for that purpose, and, if such an order be made, the
clerk is clearly bound to enter it, and is entitled to his fee
therefor, whether such order be-necessary or not, or, indeed,
whether the court had any right to enter it or not. The
propriety of such an order cannot be tested upon the application of the clerk for his fee for entering it.
3. For making record entries of recoguizances o.f defendants and entering and filing said recogizances. Recognizances may be taken either in open court, m which case a
record entry of the fact is made upon the journal, or by
a separate instrument, signed and acknowledged before a
proper officer. In the one case the clerk is entitled to a fee
VOL. cXLVII-41

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

for making the entry, and in the other for drawing and filing
the recogmzance, (United States v Barber, 140 U S. 164,
166, T 3,) but not for both. A deduction should, therefore,
be made from this item.
4. For making docket entries and indexes in cases of sc.
fa. and other proceedings, where issue was joined but no
testimony given. This item was disallowed upon the ground
that docket fees were only taxable in "causes," and that a
scare factas is not "a cause" within the meaning of the
section.
While a sevre facas to revive a judgment is merely a continuation of the original suit, (FTzerson v

Harrs, 94 Am.

Dec. 223, notes,) a sire fazas upon a recogmzance, or to
annul a patent, or for other similar purposes, is as much an
original cause as an action of debt upon a recognizance, or a
bill in equity to annul a patent. Winder v. Caldwell, 14
How 434, 443, United States v Stone, 2 Wall. 525, 535.
6. Items 8 and 9 are for entering orders approving the
accounts of officers of the court, filing duplicate accounts and
vouchers. All of these are allowable under United States v
Jones, just decided, (ante, 672,) except the fees for filing
vouchers, which should be disallowed.
6. Per-diem fee for attendance on the District Court with
the jury commissioner in drawing jurors, is disallowed upon the
authority of United States v. King, just decided. Ante, 676.
7. For entering separate orders of court excusing jurors,
entering orders of court to issue subpoenas, entering order for
alias cqtpas. As these orders appear to have been made by
the court, and the fees for entering them allowed by the
court, the charges must be sustained.
8. Item 15, for making dockets and indexing, where no
indictment is found, but the same is ignored by the grand
jury, should be disallowed. "A cause" in a criminal case is
begun by filing an indictment which has been found, but not
by one which has been ignored.
9. Item 20, for drawing recognzances of defendants, is
allowed upon the authority of United States v. Barber, 140
U. S. 164, 166, - 3.

