OCTOBER TERMf, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

Virginia statutes should be construed according to their views,
be treated as the equivalent of the express assertion of a right
'arising under the Constitution or laws of the United States.

Trit of em'or dism-issed.

WALTER v. TORTHEASTERIN RAILROAD
COMPANY.
APPEIL''FRO

THE CICUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE DISTRIOT OF SOUTH CAOLINA.

No.-1209.

Argued and submitted January 11, 12, 1893.-Decided January 23,1893.

A Circuit Court- of the United States nas no urisdiction over a-bill in
equity to enjoin the collection of taxes from I railroad company, -when
distinct assessments, in separate counties, n, 'one of which amounts to
$2000, and for which, in case of payment under protest, separate suits
must be brought to recover back the amounts paid, are joined in the bill
and make an aggregate of over $2000.

Tins was a bill in equity filed by the Northeastern Railroad
Cormpany of South Carolina against the treasurer and sheriff
of Charleston, Berkeley, Williamsburg and Florence Counties,
through which the plaintiff's road passes, to enjoin them from
issuing executions against or seizing the property of the plaintiff for the purpose of collecting a tax based upon an assessment alleged to be-unconstitutional and void.
The substance of the bill was that the constitution of the
State provided for a uniform and equal rate of assessment and
taxation, that real estate is assessed- for taxation once in five
years at a.uniform rate of from fifty to sixty per cent of its
actual value, that personal property isassessed every year at
the same rate or less, that this rate has become a uniform
.rule, and was accepted and acted upon by the assessing officers
and boards of the State, that plaintiff returned its property
at a valuation of from sixty to sixty-five per cent of its actual
value, and that the State Board of Equalization for railroads
arbitrarily assessed the property of this company at a much

WALTER v. NORTHEASTERN RAILROAD CO. 371
Opinion of the Court.

higher rate, although, prior to the year 1891, it had accepted
and acted upon a uniform rule of assessment; but that, at its
meeting in 1891, it abandoned the rule theretofore accepted,
and assessed railroad property at a rate exceeding its actual
value, and in some cases doubled and trebled the" previous
rate, with intent to cast upon it a greater proportion of taxation, although no change was made in the assessment of other
real and personal property; that the plaintiff, in common
with the other railroads of the State, tendered' in "paymentof
its taxes the amount due under the levy estimated upon the
value of its property as theretofore assessed, under the rule
prevailing in that State, and set forth in its sworrn-return;
and brought this bill to enjoin the taking possession of or
selling its property under a tax execution to collect the excess.
Defendants demurred to this bill upon the ground: 1. That
the court had no jurisdiction by reason of the insufficient
amount in controversy. 2. That the plaintiffs had a complete
and adequate remedy at law. 3. For want of equity. The
case was heard upon this demurrer, and a decree was rendered
overruling the demurrer and enjoining the collection of the
&e. Railroad v. Blake, 49 Fed. -Rep.
'
taxes, See Richmond
901. Defendant appealed to this Court under the 5th section
of the Court of Appeals Act of -March 3, 1891, 26 Stat. 826,

827, c. 517.
.Mi. Saamuel lard for appellants. .Mr. -D. A. Tqwnsend,
Attorney General of the State of South Carolina, and -Yfr. Ira
B. Jones were with him on the brief.
.Y,. -enry
for appellee.

A. f. Smitk and .

I.T

l uger Fitzsimmons

MIR. JUsTIcE BRoww, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

Objection was takea to the jurisdiction, of the court below
upon the grounds, first, that the matter in controversy with
each of the defendants was less than $2000; and second, be-

00TOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

cause the plaintiff had a complete aid adequate remedy at law.'
•With regard to the amount in controversy, it is averred in
the bill that the plaintiff retrued, as required by law, its real
and personal proper.ty for taxation at a "valuation of the
same according to and undek the uniform rules and methods
of valuation adopted for the taxation of similar real and persofial'property," and tendered to the county treasurers of the
several counties'tihe amounts due for taxes upon such valuation
as returnedi such amounts aggregating over $18,000, and, in
addition thereto,, tendered to the county treasurer of Charleston County, $813.87,.for the expenses of the railway commission; biut .that. the defendants -refused to receive the same
unless plaintiff would also pay the taxes claimed to be due in
excess of the amount so tendered, which were as follows: In
Charleston .County, $177.67; in Berkeley County, $1511.16;
in Williamsburg County, $1332.50; and in Florence County,
.$571.33; making the total amount claimed $3592.66. It was
further alleged. that of these taxes, 4- mills were levied for
State purposes; 2 mills for school purposes; and from 1J
mills to 51 mills in the different counties, for county and all
other purposes. It appears, then, that, while the total amount
involved in this litigation is $3592.66, there is no claim made
by the county treasurer of either county which is not less than
$2000, and that of the entire claim of $3592.66, the State
taxes represent but $1473.38. The residue is assessed for
school and local purposes, is disbutsed by the county commissioners, and is never paid into the state treasury at all. In
short, the amount in dispute in each county is not only less
than.$2000, but is compounded of a state, school, and county
tax, most of which is collected and paid oit by the county
authorities for local purposes.
-Unlder these circumstances, it is entirely clear that, had
these taxes been paid under protest and the plaintiff had
sought to recover: them back, it would. have been obliged to
bring separate actions in each county. As the amount reco.verable from each county would be different, no joint judgment
coul, possibly be'rendered So, had a bill for injunction been
filed in a,state court, and. the practice had permitted, as in

WALTER v. NORTHEASTERN RAILROAD CO.

373

Opinion of the Court.

some States, a chancery subpcena to be served in any county
of the State, these defendants could -not have been joined in
one bill, but a separate bill would have had to be filed in each
county.
Is the plaintiff entitled to join them all in a single suit in a
Federal court, and, sustain the jurisdiction by reason of the
fact that the total amount involved exceeds $2000? We
think not. It is well settled in this court that when two or
more plaintiffs, having several interests, unite for the convenience of litigation in a single suit, it can only be sustained in
the court of original jurisdiction, or on appeal in this court,
as to those whose claims exceed the jurisdictional amount;
and that when two or more defendants are sued by the same
plaintiff in one suit the test of jurisdiction is. the joint or
several character of the liability to the plaintiff. This was
the distinct ruling of this court in Seaver v. Bigelows, 5 Wall.
208; Russell v. Stansell, 105 U. S. 303 ; Farmers' -Loan and
Trust Co. v. l aterman, 106 U. S. 265; Mawley v. Fairbanks,
108 U. S. 543; Stewart v. Dbunham, 115 U. S. 61; Gibson v.
Shufeldt, 122 U. S. 27; Clay v. Field, 138 U. S. 464.
As illustrative of the rule as applied to cases of joint defendants, it was held in Stratton v. Jarvis,8 Pet. 4, that,, where a
libel for salvage was filed against, several packages of .merchandise, and a decree was rendered against each consignment
for an amount not sufficient in itself to authorize an appeal by
any one claimant, the appeal of each claimant must be treated
as a separate one, and, the amount in each case being insufficient, this court had no jurisdiction of the appeal of any claimant. A similar ruling was made in Spear v. Place, 11 How.
522. In Paving Co. v. 21fulord, 100 U. S. 147, a bill, filed
against two defendants, alleging that each held certificates of
indebtedness belonging to the plaintiff, was dismissed on final
hearing, and plaintiff appealed, and it was held that, as the
recovery, if any, must be against the defendahits severally, and
as the amount claimed from each did not exceed the requisite
sum, this court had no jurisdiction. In Schwed vi Smith, 106
U. S. 188, 190, certain creditors recovered separate judgments
against a debtor amounting in the aggregate to more than

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

$5000, but none of which exceeded that sum, and filed a bill
against him and 'a preferred creditor to subject to the payment
of their judgment goods which had been seized upon a prior
judgment, in which they succeeded, and defendant appealed.
The appeal was dismissed, the court holding that if the decree
were several as to the creditors, it was equally so as to their
adversaries. "The theory is, that, although the proceeding is in
form but one suit, its legal effect is the same as though separate
suits had been begun on each of the separate causes of action."
So in Henderson v. Wadsworth, 115 U. S. 264, it was held that
where a suit was brought against several heirs to enforce their
liability for the payment of a note on which their ancestor
was boifrd, and separate judgments were rendered against
each for his proportionate share, this court had jurisdiction in
error only over such judgments as exceeded $5000; and, again, in
Exyarte Phconix Ins. Co., 117 U. S. 367, that distinct decrees
against different parties on a single cause of action in which
there were distinct liabilities, could not be joined to give this
court jurisdiction on appeal. In that case the suit was brought
upon a single policy of insurance written by four different
companies, and the decree was against each company severally
for its separate obligation.
In short, the rule applicable to several plaintiffs having
separate claims, that each must represent an amount sufficient
to give the court jurisdiction, is equally applicable to several
liabilities of different defendants to the same plaintiff. The
disposition we have made of this question renders it unnecessary to consider the others.
I Upon the whole, we are of opinion that this bill ought not
to have been sustained, and the decree of the oourt must, therefore, be
Reversed, and the case remanded, with directions to dismiss
the billfor want ofjurisdition.
KEELS V. CENTRAL RAILROAD COPANY.
Appeal from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of South Carolina.
No.1207. Argued with lNo. 1206. MR. JUSTWCE BRowN. As the

