242

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

BERNIER' v. BERNIER
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT' OP TE

STATE OF MUCHIGAN.

Xo. 102, Argued January 3,4,1893.-D.Decided January 16,1893..

When a person makes a homestead entry of a tract of public land, and
enters into occupation of it with his family, and dies a widower, and
without acquiring a patent, the right to complete the proofs and acquire
the patent-passes, under Rev. Stat. ยง 2291, to all his children equally, as
well those who are adults as those who are infants; and not, under Rev.
Stat. ยง 2292, to such children only as are minors at the time of his death,
to the exclusion of those who: had then attained their majority.
Section 2292 of the Revised Statutes was only intended to give to infant
children the benefit of the homestead entry and to relieve them, because
of their infancy, from the necessity of proving the conditions required
when there are only adults, or adults and minors, mentioned in ยง 2291,
'and to allow a sale of the land within a prescribed period for their
b'enefit.'.

Tms'was a 'suit in equity to determine the respective rights
of the adhilt and minor heirs of Edward Bernier,.at the' time of
his" death, to certain -real property in Michigan, held by him
under a homestead dutry, and to compel the conveyance from
the minor heirs, and the defendant who has acquired an interest
from 6ne of them, of'an uindivided half of the premises, to.the
coi-plainants. It atose out of the following facts:
On the 24th 'of May, 1875, Edward Bernier made a homesidad entry on the lands in controversy under the provisions of
the homestead law of 'the United States. At the time he was
a widower'.his Wife having-died in April, 1872. He occupied
the lreniises as a homestead until his 'death, June 17, 1876.
He left 'ten children surviving him, five of whom were, at the
time, over twentylone years of age, and they are the complainants in this qase, 'aud five Were, at the time, under twenty-one
years'df age, and they, with one John H. Goff, who acquired, in
1885, by a quitclaim deed the interest of one of them, are the
defendants. One of the defendants and minor heirs, Joseph
Bernier, before suit, conveyed his interest to his sister and co-

BERNIER -. BERNIER...

--4a

Statement of the Case.

defendant, and filed, a disclaimer. She, representing both his
and her own share, Was willing to dividethe property on the
basis:claimed by the'complaipants, -and has permitted a decree
to pass .against her by default.

-

In -October, 18.76, some

month "after the death of Edward Berni.er, Samuel -F. Bernier,
one of the adult heirs, on behalf of all the ten heirs, made the
requited proof 'for commuting the homestead entry,. paid the
minimum price for'the land, and received a certificate entitling
him to a patent therefor.- This certificate was never cancelled,
nor was any proceeding taken for its. cancellation; nor was any
notice given of a contest.respecting it; nor was any irregularity
in its issue alleged. The only proof of occupation and-improvement was made by Samuel F. Bernier, and the. only sums
paid fbr the land were advanded by him, on behla of all the
heirs. But notwithstanding these facts, some time in April,
1877, a second* certificate vas issued to the minbr heirs of
Edward Bernier, which was made upon the commutation.
proofs presented by Samuel F. Bernier, as- above stated,. and
on the 25th of the same mouth a patent was issuedto them.
The bill alleged that this was'issued to them by mistake, that
it should have been issued to the heirs of Edward -Bernier, and
that it was issued .to the minors without the knowledge, consent or procurement of the complainants; and in violation of
their legal and equitable rights in the premises, and that by
its terms the title -in fee simple of 'the premises was in themf,
but it claimed that they held the same subje't to the rights of
the complainants therein.
The bill further alleged that all the steps to change the filing
on the lands. from a preemption claim to a -honmestead entry,
and in commuting the homestead entry and securing a patent
for the lands, were taken ihrough an attorney at law, who was
a6ting for the said Edward Bernier's heirs; that when he received the patent he supposed the same ran to those heirs, and,
witho, t xamining it or discovering his mistake, he placed the
same on record, and the mistake was only recently discovered;
that for many years previous to such discovery all the heirs,
including the minors, treated the lands as their joint pioperty,
but that since the discovery of. the mistake, and only-since, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

minor heirs pretended to claim that they were the sole and
only heirs, and that the complainants had no interest, right or
title in the lands, which claim and pretence the complainants
charged were a fraud upon their rights, and worked a manifest
wrong and injury to them; hence the institution of this suit.
The Circuit Court in Mlichigan which heard the case decided
in favor of the complainants, and adjudged that the defendants execute, acknowledge and deliver to them a sufficient
deed or deeds to convey and vest in each one an undivided
tenth part of the lands and premises. On appeal, the Supreme
Court of the State reversed the decree and ordered the bill to
be dismissed. From the latter decree the case was brought by
writ of error to this court.'
.M . John C. Donnelly for plaintiffs in error.
.Mr. JoAhn
MR.

JusTic-

Gof for defendants in. error.
FI.L,

after stating the case, delivered the opin-

ion of the court.
It would seem that the patent to the minor heirs was issued
without the knowledge or consent of any of the heirs; and
that their attention was first brought to it when the defendant
Goff obtained the interest of one of the defendants in 1886.
The property wqs always treated as a part of the estate of.
Edward Bernier, deceased. It was assessed as such from his.
death until -1885, and George E. Bernier, one of the heirs, took
charge of .the whole estate, including the land in controversy,
paid taxes thereon, and took care of the minors. He remained
ift possession of the premises in controversy until this suit was
brought. All the parties, of course, claim through a common
source, and the question for decision is whether all the heirs
of the deceased took this land jointly and are equally entitled
to it, or whether the whole of the land went to the minor heirs
of the deceased. And this question depends for its solution
upon the construction given to the provisions of the Homestead
Act, contained in sections 2291 and 2292 of the Revised Stat-

BERNIER v. BERNIER.
Opinion of the Court.

utes of the United States, which embody the provisions of the
act of Congress, on that subject, of May 2'0, 1862, and of subsequent acts which have any bearing upon the question. After
providing for the entry of lands, which under other provisions
of law might be afterwards commuted into ahomestead,.section 2291 declares that "no certificate, however, shall be
given, or patent issued therefor,.until the expiration of five
years from the date of such entry; and if at the expiration of
such time, or at- any time within two years thereafter, the
person making such entry.; of if he be de.ad, his widow; or in
case of her death, his heirs or devisee.; or in case of a widow
making such entry, her heirs or devisee, in case of her 'dbath,
proves by two credible witnesses that lie, she or they have
resided upon or cultivated the same-for the term of five years
immediately succeeding the time of filing the affidavit, and
makes affidavit that no part of such land has been alienated,
except as provided in section.2288, and that he, she or they
will bear true allegiance to the. government of the United
States; then, in such case, he, she or they, if at that time
citizens of the United States, shall be entitled to a patent, as
in other cases provided by law." Section 2292 provides that
"in* case -of the death of both father and mother, leaving an
infant child or children under twenty-one years of age, the
right and fee shall enure to the benefit. of such infant child or
children; and the executor, administrator or guardian may, at
any time within two years after the death of the surviving
parent, and in accordance with the laws of the State in which
such children, for the time being, have their domicil; sell the
land for the benefit of such'infants, but for no other purpose;and the purchaser shall acquire the absolute title by the purchase, and be entitled to a patent from the United States on
the payment of the office fees and sum of money above
specified."
The contention of the complainants is that under section
9291 the whole premises which the deceased, Edward Bernier,
died claiming as his homestead, upon the completion of. the
proofs required, passed equally to the ten children, as his heirs.
On the other hand, it is insisted by the defendants that, under

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

section 2292, when the father and mother both died, the fee
of the land enured to the minor children to the exclusion of

those who had attained their majority, and that they alone
were entitled to the certificate and patent.
We are of opinion that the construction claimed by the complainants is the true one. Section 2291 provides that the certificate and patent, in case of the death of father and mother,
shall, upon the proofs required being made, be issued to the
heirs of the deceased party making the entry, a provision which
'embraces children that are minors as well as adults. Section
2292, in providing only for minor heirs, must be construed
not as iepealing the provisions of section 2291, but as .in harmony with them, and as only intended to give the fee of the
land to the minor children exclusively when there are no'
other heirs. This construction will give effect to both sections;
and it is a general rule, without exception, in construing statutes, that effect must be given to all their provisions if such a
-construction is consistent with the general purposes of the act
and the.provisions are not necessarily conflicting. All acts of
the legislature should be so construed, if practicable, that one
section will not defeat or destroy another, but explain and
support it. When a provision admits of more than one' construction, that one will be adopted which best serves to carry
out the purposes of the act. The object of 'the sections in
question was, as well observed by counsel, to provide the
method of completing the homestead claim and obtaining a
patent therefor, and not to establish a line of descent or rules
of distribution of the deceased entryman's estate. They point
out the conditions on which the homestead claim may be perfected and a-patent. obtained; and these conditions differ with
the different positions in which the family of the deceased.
entiyman, is left upon his death: If there are adults as well
as minor heirs, the conditions under which such claim will be
perfected and patent issued are different from the conditions
required where there are only mninor heirs and both parents
are deceased. In the one case the proof is to extend to that
of rogidence upon the.property, or its cultivation for the alienterm
has been
of five yeais, and show that no part of the land

BERNIER v. BERNIER.
Opinion of the Court.

ated except in the instances specified, and the applicant's
citizenship and loyalty to the government of the United States;
but in the other case, where there are no adult heirs and only
minor heirs, and both parents are deceased, the requirements
exacted in the first case are omitted, and a sale of the land
within two years after the death of the surviving parent is
authorized for the benefit of the infants. The fact of their
being infant children and the death of their parents is all that
is required to establish their. right and title to the premises
and to a patent.
Section 2292 was, in our judgment, only intended to give
to infant children the benefit of the homestead entry and to
relieve them, because of their infancy, from the necessity of
proving the conditions required when there are only adults,
or adults and minors, mentioned in the previous section, and to
allow a sale of the land within a prescribed period for their
benefit.
We are of opinion, therefore, that the right to the premises
in controversy, covered by the homestead entry, vested in all
the heirs of Edward Bernier at his death, the adult as well as
the minor heirs, and that the subsequent patent issued to the
latter should have been issued to them all jointly, or a separate
patent should have been issued for an undivided tenth to each
heir. The minor heirs holding under the patent issued, and
the defendant Goff, who received a quitclaim for an interest
from one of them should, therefore, be required to execute
proper conveyances to the complainants, so as to transfer to
them an undivided half-interest in the whole, or to each comnplainant an undivided tenth interest in such lands. This is\in
conformity with the well-settled law that where a patent for
land is issued by mistake, inadvertence, or other cause, tp
parties not entitled to it, they will be declared trustees of tlie
true owner, and decreed to convey the title to him. Stazrk v.
Sqrs, 6 Wall. 402, 419.

The decree of the Supreme Court of -lichigam must, therefore, be reversed, and the cause remanded to that cburt for
furtherproceedings not inconaistentwith ihis opinion.

