OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court

UNITED STATES v. FLETOEER.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE EASTERN DISTRICT OF ARKA.NSAS.
No. 783. Submitted January 3, 1893.-Declded March 6,1893.

When, for convenience in making up accounts, an outgoing marshal relinquishes to his successor his right to expenses incurred in endeavoring
to arrest persons for offences against the United States, the incoming
marshal may charge these fees in bis accounts, and they should be allowed.
A marshal of a district into which an offender, who has committed a orime
in another district, comes, may deputize the marshal of the district in
which the offence was committed, or his deputy, to execute the warrant
of removal, and relinquish to him the fees therefor.
The treasury officers have a right to reqmre of a marshal items of expenses
incurred in endeavoring to arrest persons charged with the commission
of crime.
When claims against the United States are presented to the proper department for allowance, and the department suspends action until proper
vouchers are furnished, or other reasonable requirements are complied
with, the courts should not 'assume jurisdiction until final action is
taken.
A marshal may charge mileage upon as many writs as he may have in his
hands, where the writs are against different persons.

THE case is stated in the opinion.

.Mir Solicitor General and Mr Felix Brann'gan for appellant.
Mr William W Dudley, fP Loum T Xichener, and Mr
.Zwhard B. M.Mahon for appellee.
MR. JUSTICE

Bnowx delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action to recover certain fees alleged to be due
the plaintiff as marshal of the United States for the Eastern
District of Arkansas. The court below directed judgment to
be entered in his favor for $3069.16, "45Fed. Rep. 213, and the
United States appealed.

UNITED STATES v. FLETCHER.
Opmon of the Court.

A part only of the items in controversy are included in the
assignments of error. Those to which objection was made
in this court are as follows
1. Expenses incurred by a deputy of the plaintiff's predecessor while endeavoring to arrest persons for offences against
the United States, $16.
This item was disallowed by the comptroller upon the
ground that the same was due to the former marshal, and that
the plaintiff was not authorized to pay expenses incurred by
his predecessor. As a general rule, this is entirely true, but it
appears in this case that the writs were issued before the plaintiff qualified for office, but were not returned until after he
had qualified, and that, by an arrangement between the outgoing and incoming marshal, the latter was to have the fees
earned upon all writs in the hands of the deputies of the
former at the date the office changed hands. It further appeared that the outgoing marshal made no claim to these fees.
Properly speaking, the outgoing marshal was entitled to these
fees under Rev Stat. § 790, which allows him to execute all
such precepts as may be in his hands at the time of his removal
or the expiration of his term. But if, for the convenience of
making up accounts, the outgoing marshal is content to relinquish his right to these fees, we see nothing but a technical
objection in the way of the incoming marshal charging them
up in his accounts. Did the outgoing marshal claim these fees
as a debt justly due him, a different question would arise, but
in view of his relinquishment of them, we think they should
have been allowed to his successor, the plaintiff.
2. An item of $1804.73, for travel and other fees in pursuing
into other judicial districts, and there arresting persons charged
with crime in the Eastern District of Arkansas, and bringing
the persons so arrested into the latter district, was disallowed
by the comptroller upon the ground that the marshal -had no
authority to arrest a prisoner in any district but his own.
It appears, however, that where arrests were so made, the
marshals of the foreign districts deputized the plaintiff or his
deputy to execute the orders of removal to the Eastern District of Arkansas, and relinquished in favor of the plaintiff all

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

claim against. the United States for the mileage or fees so
accrued. It appears to have been the custom for the marshals
of this district to pursue fugitives from justice into other districts, to procure a deputation from the marshals of such other
districts, and in such cases it was the practice of the Treasury
Department up to 1885 to allow the mileage and other fees to
the pursuing marshal, when the marshals of the foreign districts -relinquished their claams for the same in his favor.
When a person is arrested in one district for an offence alleged
to have been committed in another, Rev. Stat. § 1014 requires
the judge of the district within which he is arrested to execute
a warrant to the marshal for his removal to the district where
the trial is to be had. No good reason is perceived why the
marshal of that district may not deputize the marshal of the
district within which the crime was committed, or his deputy,
to execute-such warrant of removal, and relinquish to him his
legal fees therefor.
Under such circumstances, we think the latter mir properly
charge these fees in his own account to the government, and
that they 'should be allowed to him.
3. Expenses incurred to the amount of $130.50 in endeavoring to arrest in his own district persons charged with crime
therein. The sum did not exceed the rate of $2 per day, the
maximum amount allowed by law, and was not disallowed
by the accounting officers in the settlement of his accounts,
but was. merely suspended for an itemized statement of the
expenses.
Objection was made to this item upon the ground that the
account was still in process of settlement in the department,
and had not been finally passed upon or disallowed. Rev
Stat. § 829 allows to a marshal "for expenses while employed
in.endeavoring to arrest, under process, any person charged
with or convicted of a crime, the sum actually expended, not
to exceed two dollars a day" The finding of the court was
that the services had been performed, and that the expenses
equalled the amount charged, and sometimes exceeded the
$2 a day allowed by law. The Comptroller, however, had a
right to require items of these expenses to be furnished. The

UNITED STATES v. FLETCHER.
Opinion of the Court.

smallness of the amount allowable under the statute does not
affect the principle, unless at least a showing be made that it
is impossible to furnish the particulars.
With regard to the power of the court to allow these items
pending the settlement of the marshal's account by the officers
of the Treasury Department, Rev Stat. § 951 provides that
"in suits brought by the United States against individuals, .no
claim for a credit shall be admitted, upon trial, except such as
appear to have been presented to the accounting officers of the
Treasury, for their examination, and to have been by them
disallowed, in whole or in part," etc. This was, prior to the
establishment of the Court of Claims, the only method provided by law for obtaining a judicial allowance of claims
against the government. It is true that it was held by this
court, under the Court of Claims act, in Clyde v Uinsted States,
13 Wall. 38, that a rule of that court, requiring parties to present their claims to an executive department before suing, was
unauthorized and void, the court holding that this was a jurisdictional requirement which Congress alone had the power to
establish, and, inferentially at least, that no action of the
executive department was required before suit could be begun
in that court under the act establishing it. This was also the
ruling in United States v Enox, 128 U. S. 230, 234, which was
a suit in the Court of Claims by a commissioner of the Circuit
Court for fees. In delivering the opinion of the court, Mr.
Justice Miller remarked "We understand the court to have
decided," (in Clyde v. United States,) "in substance, that the
action of the auditifig department, either in allowing or rejecting such a claim, was not an essential prerequisite to the jurisdiction of the Court of Claims to hear it." But if such claibms
are presented to -the department for allowance, and the department, in the exercise of its discretion, suspends action upo:
them until proper vouchers are furnished, or other reasonable
requirements are complied with, the courts should not assume
jurisdiction until final action is taken. So long as the claim is
pending and awaiting final determination in the department,
courts should not be called upon to interfere, at least, unless
it ignores such claim or fails to pass upon it within a reason-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

able time. This was the rule applied by this court with respect
to a pending survey of lands in -New Orleans v Pane,147
U. S. 261.
4. The last assignment of error relates to a claim of
$1565.16, for more than one mileage on the service of two
or more writs against different persons for different causes,
when the service was made in the course of one trip, and also
for mileage on more than one writ where more than one writ
was served at the same time and place upon different persons.
Rev Stat. § 829 allows six cents a mile for travelling in the
service of process, with a proviso that, "when more than two
writs of any kind required to be served in behalf of the same
party on the same person might be served at the same time,
the marshal shall be entitled to compensation for travel on
only two of such writs." There is here a clear implication that
there is no restriction upon the right of the marshal to charge
mileage upon as many writs as he may have in his hands
where the writs are against diferent persons.
The proviso in the act of February 22, 1875, § 7, 18 Stat.
834, that no person shall be entitled to an "allowance for
mileage or travel not actually and necessarily performed,"
evidently refers to cases where process is sent by mail to a
deputy to be served at a place remote from the office whence
the process has issued. The reasons for this allowance, however, are fully stated in United States v Harmon, ante, 268,
and this item is allowed upon the authority of that case.
This disposes of all the questions raised by the assignments
of error, and the judgment of the court below is, therefore,
Reversed; andthe ease remanded,with tnstructions to enter a
new judgmentn conformity with thzs optnton.

