OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

ANIENEY v. HANNON.
APPEAL

FROM

THE CIRCUIT COURT

OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR

THE SOlY liERN DISTRICT OF OHIO.
Io. 91. Argued and submitted December 12,1892.-Decided January 3, 1893.

In Ohio the separate property of a married woman is not charged, either in
law or in equity, by her contracts executed previous to its existence.
The cases in Ohio, in New York, and in England on this subject, examined.

Tmis was a suit in equity to charge the separate estate of a
married woman with the paynient of certain notes of which'
her husband was one of the makers, such estate having been
acquired subsequently to their execution. It arose out of, the
following facts: On the 25th of March, 1880, Joseph E.
Hannon, Clara M. Hfannon, and William H. Hannon executed
their three promissory notes, aggregating $14,969.31, dated at
Xenia, Ohio, and payable to the order of Joseph E. Hannon,
one of the makers. They were subsequently transferred to
the complainants before maturity for a valuable consideration.
Clara ML. Hannon is the wife of Joseph E. Hannon, and at the
time the notes were signed she possessed a small separate
estate; and in each of the notes she inserted the following provision: "Mrs. Clara M. Hannon signs this note with the intention of charging her separate estate both real and personal."
As appears from the statement of counsel, a general demurrer
was filed to the original bill, and in disposing of it the court
expressed an opinion that the complainantscould charge the
separate estate in existence when the notes were given, but
intimated that the after-acquired property could not .be thus
charged. The separate estate existing at the time of the execution of th6 notes was of small value, and the complainants
desired to present the question of the liability of the afteracquired estate of the wife for the payment of the notes.
They, therefore,, amended their bill so as to show that Mrs.
Hannon was not, at its filing, or thereafter, possessed of any

ANKENEY u. HANNOIN.
Argument for Appellants.

of the property which she owned at the time of the execution
of the notes, but that she had subsequently acquired by inheritance from the estate of her father, who died in 1882, property
of the value of more than two hundred thousand dpllars. The
amended bill also alleged that Clara M. Hannon signed the
notes with the intention to bind her separate estate, whether
then in possession or thereafter acquired. To the bill as thus
amended a general demurrer was also filed and sustained by
the court, and a decree entered that the bill be dismissed.
From this decree the appeal was taken.
The case thus presented the single question, whether the
separate estate of the wife, Mrs. Clara M. Hannon, acquired
by her by inheritance from her father, in 1882, was chargeable
with the payment of the notes described, executed and delivered by her and others in March, 1880.
Mr'. A. B. Cummins for appellants, submitted on his brief.
I. The appeal presents a single question of law. It will be
conceded that, under the laws of Ohio as, construed by its
Supreme Court, when a married woman signs a note containing
the provision already quoted, whether as principal debtor or
as surety, she charges her separate property with its payment.
The sole inquiry arising upon this record is: -Under the laws
of Ohio existing in 1880, had a married woman the power to
make the payment of a debt a charge upon a separate estate
acquired after the creation of the indebtedness?
I. The legislation of Ohio respecting married women, their
separate estate, their power to enter into contracts, and the
remedies to be employed in enforcing their obligations, as it
existed in 1880, will be found in sections 3108, 3109, 4496 and
5319 of the code as it then was. [These sections will be found
in the opinion of the court, infra.]
III. Asto the effect of these statutes upon the obligation
of a married woman, with respect to her separate property,
and upon the procedure to enforce the obligation: it is sufficient now to state (1) that in the absence of legislation the
estate is created by contract, conveyance or devise, and is

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Argument for Appellants.

therefore always conditioned by the terms of the instrument
under which it arises; (2) that whatever remedy is sought
against it is administered by a court of equity; (3) that all
contracts of married women are, at law, nullities.
As we view it, these sections of the code effect three changes.
(1) The separate estate is created by law, not by individual
act, and is held by legal, not equitable title. All the property,
real or personal, owned at marriage or thereafter acquired, by
conveyance, gift, devise, inheritance, purchase or labor, becomes at once separate estate, without limitation or restriction.
(2) A limited power to make contracts is conferred. It
will be observed that the enumeration of the instances in
which the married woman is given the right to bind herself
personally is an enlargement of her contractual power, and
not a limitation upon her right to deal with her separate
estate. Levi v. Earl, 30 Ohio St. 147.
(3) All that a woman has at marriage, or acquires thereafter, is her separate property. She may make certain valid
personal contracts (not material here) upon which she stands
before the law precisely as a fene sole. She may charge her
separate property with the payment of a debt, and the charge
is made effective by ordinary proceedings at law, terminating
in a general execution, leviable upon all her separate property.
IV. We do not question the rule thai the practice of the
courts of the United States in chancery cannot be changed by
state legislation. We,*however, affirm that rights, privileges
and obligations may be created or imposed by the States
which will be recognized and enforced through the appropriate procedure in the courts of the United States. Bank of
HMamilton v. Dudley, 2 Pet. 492; Clark v. Smith,.13 Pet. 195;
Ex parte _Oe&Yiel, 13 Wall. 236 ;-. Case of Broderick's Will, 21
Wall..503, 520; Holland v. Challen, 110 U. S. 15; Reynolds
v. Crawfordsville Bank, 112 U. S 405. And we maintain
tfati from the propositions above laid down it follows: (1)
That whatever may have been the rule in equity, under the
legislation of Ohid, we are entitled to reach all the separate
property Mri. Hannon may have at the time the decree is
entered, Patrick v. Littell, 36 Ohio. St. q9; and (2) that

ANKENEY v. HANNON.
Argument for Appellants.

assuming that the statutes of Ohio have modified the doctrine
-of the courts of chancery no further than to create and defihe

the separate estate, an intent to charge property thereafter
acquired is as effective as an intent to charge existing property.
Under the common law, prior to the expansion of the court
of chancery, separate property of women, during coverture,
was unknown. The law did not recognize any dominion
whatsoever in property on the part of married women. The
obvious injustice of the results of this doctrine at length
secured a remedy, not in the common law nor from the
legislative branch of the government, bat from the courts of
equity. To accomplish the reform, the chancellors invoked
the well known principles of trust, and held that, through the
intervention of a trustee, property might be held to the sole
and separate use of the wife as a cestui que trust. It will be
obsrved that this trust estate was one necessarily created by
contract or devise, as distinguished from mere operation of
the law, and the courts of equity did no more than give effect
to the expressed desire of the parties. .When such separate
estate was thus brought into existence the power of the wife
over it was, with a few exceptions not important here, as
absolute and extensive as though she were an unmarried
woman. She might sell, or mortgage, or otherwise incumber
it, subject alwiays of course, to such restraint upon her power
as was enjoined in the instrument creating the estate.
The recognition of the separate estate necessarily involved
the recognition of a contractual power on the part of a married
woman. The separate estate was created that the married
woman might enjoy its fruits. This was impossible, unless
she were given the right to deal with it, to use it, to sell and
incumber it. To these things contracts were necessary; and
it was equally necessary that she should be bound by agreements concerning the property with which she had a right to
deal. Courts of equity, for the purpose of effecting the object
of the separate estate, enforced her contracts relating to that
separate estate unless they were forbidden by the instrument
creating it. Speedily there 'arose other questi"us. ,Itis sufficient to say that the cases exhibit the same v: lety of opinion

OCTOBER.TERM, 1892.
Argument for Appellants.

observable during the growth of any new doctrine. The
principal questions in dispute have been, first, the theory upon
which the estate is to be charged; second, how the intent to
charge it must be evidenced; and third, the construction and
effect of the instrument creating it. See Bank of Australia
v. _Lemprire, L. R. 4 P. C. 572; Johnson v. Gallagher, 3
De G. F. & J. 494, 519; .ulme v. Tenant, 1 Bro. 'Oh. 16;
Owens v. -Dickenson, Cr. & Ph. 48; Murray v. Baree, 3
Iffyin. & K. 209; Yale v. .Dederer, 22 N. Y. 450; S. 0. 78
Am. Dec. 216; Todd v. Lee, 15 Wisconsin, 365; M axon v.
Scott,.55 N. Y. 247.
Whatever divergence from the line of English opinions may
exist in America, it is to be noted that it relates, not to the
general doctrine, viz.: that the intention to charge the separate
estate is the foundation of enforcing the obligation, but to the
character or form of contract which does thus evidence an
intent to create a charge. -The question has been met in all
its phases by the Supreme Court of Ohio, and the rule of that
State has long been, that general engagements furnish sufficient
evidence of an intent to charge, and that the obligation of a
surety does not differ in this respect from promises made for
her own advantage, provided (as claimed by some of the
cases) an intent to charge be affirmatively shown. Avery v.
Vansickle, 35 Ohio St. 270; Wlliams v. -rmston,35 Ohio St.
296; Rice v. -IailroadZ Co., 32 Ohio St. 380; Levi v. Earl,30
Ohio St. 147; Pillips v. Graves, 20 Ohio St: 371 ; Patrick
v. Littelt, 36 Ohio St. 79; .Fallis v. Keys, 35 Ohio St. 265;
Swasey'v. Antram, 24 Ohio St. 87; Jenz v. Gugel, 26 Ohio
St. 527; Ikeiley v. Butler, 26 Ohio St. 535; TWesterman. v.
Westerman, 25 Ohio St. 500.
Concerning the construction which shall be given to the
-instrument creating the separate estate, we do not deem it
material to determine which view is supported by the greater
authority of reason or adjudication. In Ohio the difficulty has
been entirely eliminated by the legislation which makes all the
property of a married woman separate estate, and qualifies her
to hold the legal title to whatever she" may owfi. Levi v.
Earl, 30 Ohio St. 147; Patrick v. Zittell, 36 Ohio St. 79.

ANKENEY v. HANNON.
Opinion of the Court.

We are aware that thero is an English case that may seem,
upon casual reading, to hold a.contrary view. It is Pike v.
Fitzgibbon, 17 Oh. D. 454. It is not difficult however to show
that it is not an authority against our Position.
Ii'st. The separate estate was created by an instrument
that expressly forbade anticipation; it was the intent of the
donor that under no circumstances should the donee have the
right to use more than the current income from the property.
Under such terms it was legally impossible for the married
woman to charge it with a debt created prior to the existence
of the separate estate.
Second. There was neither allegation nor proof that there
was an intent to charge after acquired property. The sole
evidence of any intent was the execution of a general engagement to pay a sum of money.
It will not be forgotten that in the case at bar the estate is
statutory, unfettered by conditions or-restrictions. The legal
title is in IMrs. Hannon. The averments of the bill are, that
this is the property which she especially intended to charge.
The American authorities upon the point are few, but they
are with us. Todd v. Lee, 16 Wisconsin, 365; .faxon v. Scott,
55 N. Y. 247; Todd v. Ames, 60 Barb. 454, 462; 'Fan .Metre
v. Wof, 27 Iowa, 341; TFallis v. Ieys, 35 Ohio St. 265.
Mr. -awrence .Maxwell, Jr., (with whom was Mr. Wilnim
.M. Ramsey on the brief,) for appellees.
Mit. J'usTicE FIELD, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

At common law, a married woman is disabled from executing any promissory notes, either alone or in conjunction with
her husband. A note or other contract signed by both is the
obligation of the husband alone. And in the absence of legislation a separate estate to her can only be created by conveyance, devise or contract, and remedies against such estate can
be enforced only in equity. At the time Mrs. Hannon signed
the notes in controversy, married women in Ohio were subject

OCTOBER TER,

1892.

Opinion of the. Court.

to their common law disabilities, except with respect to certain
statutory contracts, and had power to charge their separate
estates only in accordance with the ordinaryrules of equity.
Subsequently, in 1884, the laws of Ohio were amended, authorizing married women, during coverture, to contract to the
same extent and in the same manner as if they were unmarried. (Amendatory sections Rev. Stats. 3108, 3109, 3110 and
3111.) And in March, 1887, it was further provided that" a
husband or wife may enter into any engagement or transaction with the other, or with any other person, which either
might if unmarried; subject, in transactions between themselves, to the general rules whi.eh control the actions of persons occupying confidential relations with each other." But
at the time the notes in question were signed by Mrs. Hannon
the rights and liabilities of married women in Ohio, so far as
they differed from the doctrine of the common law, were determined by the following sections of the Revised Statutes,
which embodied the provisions of the act-known as the Keys
act, passed in April, 1861. These sections are as follows:
"SEac. 3108. An estate or interest, legal or equitable, in real
property belonging to a woman at her marriage, or which
may have come to her during coverture, by conveyance, gift,
devise or inheritance, or by purchase with her separate mneans
or money, shall, together with all rents and issues thereof, be
and remain her separate property,-and under her control; and
she may, in her own name, during coverture, make contracts
for labor and materials for improving, repairing and cultivating the same, and also lease the same for any period not exceeding three years. This section shall not affect the estate
by the curt'sy of a husband in the real property of his wife
after her decease ; but during the life of such wife, or any
heir of her body, such estate shall not be taken by any process
of law for the payment of his debts, or be conveyed or incumbered by him, unless. she join therein with him in the manner
prescribed by law in regard to her own estate.
. "SEo. 3109. The personal property, including rights in
action belonging to a woman -at her marriage, or coming to
-her during coverture, by gift, bequest or inheritance, or. by

ANKENEY -v. HANNON1.
Opinion of the Court.

purchase with her separate money or means, or due as the
wages of her separate labor, or growing out of any violation
increase
of her personal rights, shall, together with all' income,
and profit thereof, be and 'remain her separate property and
under her sole .controk and shall not be liable to be taken by
any process of law for the debts of her husband. This section
shall not affect the title of a husband to personal property
reduced to his possession with the express assent of his wife;
but personal property shall not be 'deemed to have been reduced to possession by'the husband by higs use, occupancy,
care or protection thereof, but the same shall remain her separate property, unless, by the terms of said assent, full authority is given by the wife to the husband to sell, incumber or
otherwise dispose of the same for his own use and benefit.
"SEc. 3110. The separate property of the wife shall be
liable to be taken for any judgment rendered in an action
against husband and wife upon a cause existing against her at
their marriage, or for a tort committed by her during 'coverture, or upon a contract-made by her concerning her separate
property, as provided in section thirty-one hundred and eight.
"S~c. 3111. A married woman, whose husband deserts her,
or from intemperance or other cause becomes incapacitated,
or neglects to provide for his family, may, in her own name,
make contracts for'her own labor,' and the labor of her minor
children, and in her own name sue for'and collect her own or
their earnings; and she may file a -petition against her hdsband, in the Court of Common Pleas' of the county in which
she resides, alleging such desertion, incapacity or neglect, and
upon proof thereof theL court may enter a judgment vesting'
her with the rights, privileges and liabilities of afene sole, s to
acquiring, possessing and disposing of property, real and personal,;-paking contracts, and being liable thereon, and suing
and being sued in her own name; but after such judgment the
husband shall not be liable 'upon-any contract so made by her
in her own name, or for any tort thereafter committed by her."'
Sections 4996 and 5319 should also be quoted, as they are
supposed 'by the appellants to' have some bearing upon the'
questions presented.'

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

Section 4996 is as follows:
"A married woman cannot prosecute or defend by next
friend, but her husband must be joined with, her, unless the
action concerns her separate property, is upon her written
obligation, concerns business in which she is a partner, is
brought to set aside a deed orwill, or to collect a legacy, or is
between her and her husband."
J
Section 5319 is as follows:
"When a married Woman sues or is sued alone, like proceedings shall be had, and judgment may be rendered and enforced
as if she were unmarried, and her separate property and estate
shall be liable for the judgment against her, but she shall be
entitled to the benefit of all exemptions to heads of families."
These last two sections originally were parts of an act passed
in 1874.
It has been held by the Supreme Court of Ohio that the
legislation contained in these provisions, considered either by
itself or in connection with the act of March 30, 1874, the
provisions of which are embraced in sections 4996 and 5319 of
the Revised Statutes, does not enlarge the capacity of married
women to make contracts except in the instances specifically
mentioned. The case of Levi v. Earl, 30 Ohio St. 117, maintains this position, after an elaborate analysis and consideration
of the legislation on the powers and disabilities of married
women in the State. That case was decided, it is true, by the
Supreme Court commission of Ohio and not by the Supreme
Court of the State, but that commission was appointed by the
Governor of the State, under dn amendment of the constitution
adopted to dispose of such part of the business on the docket
of the Supreme Court as should by arrangement between the
commission and the court be transferred to the commission.
The amendment declares that the commission shall have like
jurisdiction and power in respect to such business as may be
vested in the court. A decision of the commission upon aquestion properly presented to it in a judicial proceeding is,
therefore, entitled to the like consideration and weight as a
decision upon the same question by the court itself, and is
equally authoritative.

ANKENEY v. HANNON.
Opinion of the Court.

The case cited, among other things, adjudges and declares
(1) that by the provisions of law quoted the wife is authorized
to make contracts in her own name for labor and materials
for improving, repairing and cultivating her separate estate
as defined by them, and for leasing the same for a term not
exceeding three years, and that upon such contracts the wife is
liable to an action at law and to a judgment and execution as
a feme sole, but that all her other engagements, debts or obligations are void at common law the same as before the adoption of the provisions mentioned; (2) that by those provisions
the marital rights of the husband were divested as to the wife's
general estate, and the wife was invested with the control of
the same, and could bind it not only by the contracts which
she was authorized to make in her own name, but to the same
extent as she could charge her separate estate in equity before
the provisions were adopted; (3) that the power of a court of
equity to charge the separate estate of a married woman as
existing and exercised before those provisions were adopted
still existed not only as to such separate property but also as
to her separate property as defined by those provisions, except
as to such contracts as she was authorized to make in her own
name, upon which a remedy at law was given by the statute.
It has also been held by the Supreme Court of Ohio that
sections 4996 and 531 of the Revised Statutes, which embody
the provisions of the act of March 30, 1874, were intended
siImply as an amendment to the Code of Civil Procedure, and
did not affect or enlarge the rights or liabilities of married
women, but related merely to the remedy. Jenz v. Gugel, 26
Ohio St. 527; Allison v. Porter,29 Ohio St. 136; Avery v.
lFansiclde, 35 Ohio St. 270.
The powers and liabilities of married women not being'
affected in any particulars, except those mentioned, by the
legislation of Ohio previous to the execution of the notes in
controversy, the defendant, Mrs. Hannon, did not charge her
subsequently acquired estate at law for their payment when
she signed them in connection with her husband. Even if
under the legislation in question she would, by the decision in
Williams v. Upmston, 35 Ohio St. 296, which is said to qual-

OCTOBER TERI,

1892.

Opinion of the Court.

ify, in some respects, the decisions in _Lvi v. Earl, have
charged at law her separate estate existing at the time of the
execution of the notes in the absence of the express statement
in them that she intended thus to charge it, there is nothing
in the legislative provisions adopted which enlarges her power
at law to charge any future-acquired estate. The question
then remains to be considered whether her after-acquired
estate is chargeable in equity. That is to be determined by
the ordinary rules of equity, and "wethink it is clear that the
contracts of iarried women are not chargeable in equity upon
their subsequently acquired estates.
The separate estate of a married woman, as we have stated,
is, in the absence of legislation on the subject, created by conveyance, devise or contract. Its creation gives to her the
beneficial use of the property which otherwise would not be
brought under her control. As to such property she is regarded in.equity as afeme 8oe and it was, therefore, formerly
held that her general engagements, though not personally
binding upon her, 'could be enforced against the property.
This doctrine, however, has been modified in modern times.
It is now held that to charge her separate estate, with her
engagement, it must have been made with an intention on her
part to create a charge upon such estate; that is, with reference to the property, either for its improvement or for her
benefit upon its credit. There has been much divergency of
opinion and some conflict both in the courts of England and
of this country as to what is.
necessary to establish such intention on the part of the iiife to charge hei separate estate for
her contract. It is conceded that there must have been an
intention on her part to effect such a charge, otherwise her
engagement will not have that effect.
The numerous, decisions in the High Court of Chancery of
England have shown this divergency and conflict in a marked
degree. Lord Thurlow placed the right of the wife to charge
the property upon her right as owner to dispose of it without
other authority. .Hulme v. Tenant, 1 Bro. C. C. -16; .Fettiylad v. Gorges, 3 Bro. C. C. 8. But this theory was afterwards' rejected by Lord Loughborough, who denied the

ANKENEY v. HANNON.
Opinion of the Court.

liability of a married woman's s~parate estate for her general
parol engagements, and explained the previous cases upon
the ground that the securities which the wife had executed
operated as appointments ,of her separate property. Bolton
v. Williams, 2 Yes. Jun. 138.
This doctrine proceeded upon the assumption that the wife's
separate estate was not liable for her general engagements,
but only for such as were specifically charged in writing upon
it. This theory Lord Brougham rejected, holding that there
was no valid distinction between a written security, which the
married woman was incapable of executing, and a promise by
parol, and that mere parol engagement of the wife was equally
effective to create a charge as her bond or note. .urray v.
Barlee, 3 Myln. & K. 209.
The reasoning of Lord Brougham to establish his views was
afterwards met and rejected by Lord Cottenham. Owens v.
Dickenson, 1 Craig & Ph. 48.
The Court of Appeals of*New York in the case of Yale v.,
Dederer, 22 N., Y. 450, considered very fully the evidence
which would be required to charge the separate estate of the
wife upon her contract, and in its -examination reviewed the
various decisions of the English Court of Chancery, pointing
out their many differences and conflicts, and placed its decision
upon this ground, that such estate could not be charged by
contract unless tl~e intention to charge it was stated in the contract itself or the consideration was one going to the direct
benefit of the estate. In that case a married woman signed a
promissory note as a surety for her husband, and it was held,
though it was her intention to charge such estate, that such
intention did not take effect, as it was not expressed in the
contract itself.
In the cas-e cL Willard v. Eastham, t5 Gray, 328, 335, the
same question was elaborately considered by the Supreme
Judicial Court of Massachusetts. In that case a debt was contracted by a married woman for the accommodation-of another
person without consideration received by her, and it was held
that the contract could not be enforced in equity against her
separate estate unless made a charge upon it by an express
VOL. cxLvn-9

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

instrument.

And the court concludes, after a full considera-

tion. of the subject, by observing that the whole doctiine of
the liability of a married woman's separate estate to discharge
her general engagements rests upon grounds whichare artificial
and which depend upon implications, too subtle and refined;
and that "the true limitations upon the authority of a court of
equity in relation to the subject are stated with great clearness and precision in the elaborate and well-reasoned opinions
of the Court of Appeals of New York in the case of -ale v.
_Dederer," which we have cited and says: "Our conclusion is
that when by the contract the debt is made expressly a charge
upon the separate estate, or is expressly contracted upon its
credit or when the consideration goes to the benefit of iuch
estate or to enhance its value, then equity will decree that it
shall be paid from such estate or its income, to the extent to
which the power of disposal by the married woman may go.
But where she is a mere surety or makes the contract for the
accommodation of another, without consideration received by
her, the contract being void at law, equity will not enforce it
against her estate, unless an express instrument makes the debt
a charge upon it."
We concur in these views as to the limitation on the authority
of a court of equity in relation to the subject. In this case the
amended bill avers that the defendant, Mrs. Hannon, executed
the notes in question with the intention of charging her afteracquired property; but inasmuch as her contract is in writing,
the averment can be regarded only as the pleader's conclusion,
which must be determined by the application of the law to the
undertaking itself. There is nothing in the written agreement
which makes any reference to an after-acquired estate.
In Pike v. Fitzgbbon, 17 Oh. D. 454, 460, the question as
to the power of a married woman to bind her subsequentlyacquired estate was considered. In that case Lord Justice
James said: ' Another point also has been raised,. of which we
must dispose, and which has arisen, as it seems to me, from a
misapprehension of some of the cases. It is said that a married
woman having separate estate has not merely a power of contracting a debt to be paid out of that separate estate, but,"

A.-KENEY v. HANNON.
Opinion of the Court.

having a separate estate, has acquired a sort of equitable stati
of capacity to contract debts, not in respect only of that separate estate, but in respect of any separate estate which she
may thereafter hi any way ftcquire. It is contended that because equity enables her, having estate settled to her separate
use, to charge that estate and to contract debts payable out of
it, therefore she is released altogether in the contemplation of
equity from the disability of coverture, and is enabled in a
court of equity to contract debts to be paid and satisfied -out
of any es ate settled to her separate use which she may afterwards a aire, or, to carry the argument to its logical consequences, out of any property which. may afterwards come to
her. In my opinion there is no authority for that contention,
which appears to arise entirely, from a misapprehension of the
case of -Picard.v. .ine, L. R. 5 Oh. 274, and one or two
other cases which follow it, in Which this point was never
suggested.

.

.

.

I desire to have it distinctly understood as

my opinion and the opinion of my colleagues, and, therefore,
as the decision of this court, that in any future case the proper
inquiry to be inserted is what was the separate estate which
thp married woman had At the time of contracting the debt
or engagement, and whether, that separate estate or any part
of it still remains capable of being reached by the judgment
and execution of the court. That is all that the court can
apply, in payment of the debt." Lord Justice Brett in his
concurring opinioh said: "The decisions appear to me to come
to this: 'that certain promises (I use the word 'promises' in
order.to show that in my opinion they are not contracts) -made.
by a married woman, and acted upon by the persons to whom
they are made, on the faith of the fact known to them of her
being possessed at the time of a separate estate, will be enforced'
against such separate estate as she was possessed of at that
time, or so much of it as remains at the time of judgment
recovered, whether such- judgment be recovered during or
after the cessation of the coverture. That proposition so
stated does not apply to separate estate coming into existence
,after the promise which it is. sought to enforce." p. 462.
It is true. that -in that- case, (Pike v. Fitzgibbon,) as stated

OCTOBER TERM,-1892.
Opinion of the court.

by Lord Justice James, it did not appear that the appellant
had, since the date of her engagement, acquired any property
settled to her separate use, and had not asked by the appeal to
vary the judgment as regards subsequently acquired property.
"It is therefore sufficient," said the Lord Justice, "to state, as
a warning in any future case, that the only separate property
which can be reached is the separate property, or the residue
of the separate property, that a married woman had at the
time of contracting the engagements which it is sought to
enforce." But in Zing v. wucas, 23 Ch. D. 712, 721, in the
Court of Appeal, the question, whether the engagements of a
married woman could be charged upon her subsequently
acquired estate, was actually involved, and the decision in
Pike v. Fitzgibon was held conclusive. Said Cotton, L. J.:
"With respect to her separate estate she is treated as a fene
sole, but it has been decided that it must be separate estate
which belonged to her at the time of the making of the contract, and is still remaining at the time when the contract is
enforced and judgment obtained., In Pike v. Fitzgibbon it
was held by a learned judge that all separate .property could
be charged which belonged to the riarried woman at the time
when the contract was enforced, but that was held to be
erroneous by the Court of Appeal, and the rule was laid down
that the contract could be enforced only against the separate
estate existing at the date of the contract. In the present
case, therefore, there is no question as to any principle; the
only question is whether certain property was the separate
property of the lady when she made the contract."
In view of the considerations stated and the decisions mentioned, and numerous others which might be cited, we are of
opinion that in Ohio the separate property of a married woman
could not be charged in equity by contracts executed previous
to its existence, for the obvious reason that in reference to such
property the contracts could not be made. The after-acquired
estate was not at the time available in a court of equity to
meet the contracts, for at their date it had no existence.
The English Married Woman's Property Act of 1882 provided that "every contract entered into by a married woman

