CLEMENT v. FIELD.
Statement of the Case.

an indictment should be found, and that it was not proper for
this court on the appeal, or for the Circuit Court on the writ
of habeas cor2us, to determine the question as to whether the
scheme was a lottery. We have now considered that question,
and are clearly of opinion that ยง 3894: applies to the transaction.
.Thethree questions certifled must each of them be answered
in the af rmative, and it is so ordered.

CLEMENT v. FIELD.
ROR

TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FoR THE
DISTRICT OF XKANSAS.
No.1U.

Submitted January 3, 1S93.-Decided January 30,1693.

In 1 ansas, in an action of replevin to enforce a chattel mortgage of a
machine sold to the defendant by the plaintiff, and mortgaged back- to
secure the purchase money, the defendant may set up, as a defence,
failure of the machine to do the work guaranteed and damage to'him
from delay in the delivery; and if the jury pass upon these issues, the
judgment on th 9 ir verdict is a bar to a subsequent action by the pur,
chaser of the machine against the vendor, to recover damages for such
failure and such delay.
Gardner v. Risher, 35 Kansas, 93, distinguished from
Kansas, 211.

ennett v.

-ickeZ, 41

Tins action was commenced in the District Court of :Rice
County, Kansas, August 10, 1885, by the plaintiffs in error, and
in the following month, after the pleadings were filed, was
removed into the Circuit Court of the United States for the
District of Kansas. The essential averments of the petition
are that on or before June 22, 1883, W. P. Clement, -. B:
Clement, and Charles Eustis, partners doing business under
the firm name of Clement, Eustis & Co., were engaged in raising sorghum cane, and manufacturing sugar and molasses
therefrom, in Rice County, Kansas, and that J. A. Field and
Alexander :McGee, of St. Louis, Missouri, partners doing busi-

O.TOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

ness under the firm name of J.A. Field & Co., were engaged in
making cane mills; that on or about that date Clement, Eustis
& Co., the plaintiffs, employed J. A. Field & Co., the defendants, to make for them a certain kind of cane mill, to be delivered on board the cars in St. Louis on or before August 1,1883,
and agreed to pay for the same the sum of $1850- $500 cash
in hand, 8500 on November 1, 1883, and $850 on November 1,
1884, with interest at six per cent per annum on the second
deferred payment from the said date of shipment, and that
promissory notes were given by the plaintiffs for the deferred
payments, secured by a chattel mortgage on the mill. The
plaintiffs averred that the defendants warranted the mill to be
as good and to be capable of doing as much work and as good
work as any mill made, and promised, in case of its failure to
operate as warranted, to replace it at their own expense with a
mill that would so operate, or refund the purchase money; that
the mill proved not to be as warranted ; that the defendants
failed, neglected and refused to perform their contract regarding the said warranty, and that the mill was not delivered on
board the cars in St. Louis until August 15, 1883, by reason of
which delay, as well as by the said breach of warranty, the
plaintiffs were deprived of profits which they should have
realized, and were compelled to incur, certain expenses,
whereby they sustained damages which they sought in the
action to recover.
The answer denied generally the averments of the petition,
and contained several special defences, one of which was, that
on October 2, 1884, the said defendants brought ai action
against the said plaintiffs in the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Kansas, to recover possession of the
said mill, alleging that they were entitld thereto by reason of
an alleged breach of the conditibns of said dhattel mortgage,
and that their interest in the mill aknounted to the valte of
the said promissory notes, with interest, or $1450;- that the
plaintiffs filed an answer to that petition, alleging that the
defendants had no interest in the mill, and that nothing was
due on account of the notes for the reason that the mill was
not shipped on August.1, 1883, and that it did not prove to be

CLEMENT v. FIELD.
Statement of the Case.

as warranted, whereby the defendants became liable to the
plaintiffs for damages in a sum greater than the amount of the
notes and interest, and asking that the alleged damages might
be set off against the notes and interest, and that the plaintiffs
might have judgment for such balance over the amount of the
defendants' claim.
The answer averred that the action of replevin was tried
upon its merits before the court and a jury; that the jury found
that the defendants were .entitled to possession of the mill, and
that the value of their interest therein was $1151.20; that, in
accordance with the verdict, judgment was duly entered, and
that by reason thereof the plaintiffs had had a former recovery
against the defendants upon the cause of action set out.in the
petition to which the answer is addressed.
The reply of the plaintiffs admitted that the defendants
brought the action of replevin, and that the plaintiffs appeared therein and sought to have judgment for their damages
sustained by reason of the said breach of contract and warranty, but averred that they were not permitted by the court
to make such defence -to the action, and that their damages
were not therein adjudicated.
The case came on for trial December 7,1887, in said Circuit
Court of the United States, and, a jury being waived, was
tried by the court. The defendants produced for the inspection of the court the record in the replevin action., and offerbd
other evidence, which, in the opinion of the court, showed
that the property sought to be recovered in that action was
the same property mentioned in the petition in the present
case; that the notes and- chattel mortgage in the action of
replevin were the same notes and mortgage described in the
said petition; that the clains-or damages in that action were
based upon the same grounds as .the causes of action set out
in the said petition; that the replevin action was tried upon
its merits and submitted to a jury upon the evidence and the
instructions of the court, and determined as stated in the
answer in the present suit; that the defendants in that action
(plaintiffs in this case in the court below) introduced evidence
tending to establish their said claim for damages, and that

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

none of the evidence offered in support of such claim for damages was ruled out by the court or excluded from the jury.
The court thereupon decided that the plaintiffs had had
a former recovery against the defendants upon the cause
of action set up and tried in the replevin proceedings; that
the proceedings and judgment therein constituted a complete
bar to the plaintiffs' cause of action herein, and gave judgment
for the defendants.
The plaintiffs then moved for a new trial. This motion
was overruled, whereupon they brought the case before this
court upon a writ of error.
Xr. A. B. Jetmore and XM.A. P. Jetmore for plaintiffs
in error.
The evidence offered by the defendants below upon their
plea of former recovery, under the fourth defence of their
answer, constitutes no bar to the right of recovery of the
plaintiffs in error. The most that can be claimed, if anything,
is, that it constitutes only a partial bar. Spencer v. -earth,
43 Vermont, 98, 105. The rule of res judicata is, that if
a fact has been once directly tried and determined by a court
of competent jurisdiction, the same parties cannot properly
be again allowed to contest the same matters, either in that
court or any other. Holcomb v. Pheps, 16 Connecticut, 127,
131; Johnson v. WFite, 13 Sm. & Marsh. 581. But this rule
does not apply to matters which come only collaterally under
consideration, or are only incidentally considered, or. can only
be argumentatively inferred from the judgment. Ropkins v..
Lee, 6 Wheat. 109.
The jury in the replevin action may have found a verdict in
favor of the defendants below without considering the question of damages. Bullen v. Shannon, 14 Gray, 433, 439;
lFood v. Jackson, 8 Wend. 1; Aiken v. Peck, 22 Vermont,
255; Smith v. Weeks, 26 Barb. 463; Ridgley v. Stillwell, 27
Missouri, 128; Wfashington Steam Packet Co. v. Sickles, 21
fHow. 333; L-awrence v. Hunt, 10 Wend. 80; . C. 25 Am.
Dec. 539; Il"orton v. Huxley, 13 Gray, 285; Finley v. Hanbest, 30 Penn. St. 190.

CLEB

T v. FIELD.

Argument for Plaintiffs in Error.

The fact that the defendants in the replevin action set up
specially breaches of contract and of warranty, and asked
damages therefor, did not entitle them to any affirmative relief, or any relief. The same evidence was admissible for the
defendants below under the general denial of their answer in
said replevin action. It is only the matter upon which the
plaintiffs prevailed in their replevin action, to wit, the possession of the property under the chattel mortgage, that was in
issue. Bailey v. Bayne, 20 Kansas, 657; Ifhite v. Gemeny,
47 Kansas, 741.
Whether the action of the plaintiffs in error is necessarily
barred by the result of the replevin action, would seem to
depend upon whether, if both actions had been brought simultaneously, one could have been pleaded in abatement of the
other; for, if it could not, they cannot be regarded as absolutely identical in law.
The defendants in error, in their brief of points and authorities, lay down the following proposition: "The defendants
in an action of replevin, brought by plaintiffs to enforce a
special lien against property covered by chattel mortgage
given to secure part of the jurchase-money, may, when plaintiffs sold said property with a warranty to defendants, if there
has been a breach of said warranty, plead the same as a setoff, and recoup damages in reduction of plaintiffs' special
claim upon such property; and if such damages equal plaintiffs' claim, it will defeat their recovery."
To sustain the above, they cite and urge the case of
Gardnerv. Riser, 35 Kansas, 93. That case, while it seems
to partially sustain the contention of the defendants in error,
it will be remembered, was decided by a divided- court. Mr.
Justice Johnston in that case dissented from the majority of
the court, and insisted that a replevin action is in 'the nature
of a tort, aifd that a set-off can 6nly be pleaded in an action
founded on contract.
That court, in the case of Kennett v. Fickel, 41 Kansas, 211,
lks adopted the doctrine announced by Mr. Justice Johnston
in his dissenting opinion above referred to. The court in that
case lays down'the following doctrine, Mr. Justice Johnston

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

delivering the opinion of the court: "The court ruled correctly in striking this count from the answer. The second
cause of action, setting forth a set-off, cannot be pleaded as a
defence in an action of replevin. Such an action is founded
upon the tort or wrong of the defendant, and not upon contract; and ยง 98 of the code specifically provides that ' a set-off
can only be pleaded in an action founded on contract.' If
either of the parties named owned and had the right of
possession to the property, and the' plaintiff wished to rely
upon that fact, he could have shown it under the general
denial.
Yilson v. .F ler, 9 Kansas, 1I6; Yandle v. Crane,
13 Kansas, 344; Bailey v. Bayne, 20 Kansas, 657; Holmberg
v. Dean, 21 Kansas, 73."
.Mr. Seneca XA.Taylor for defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE SnrmAs, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
This was an action to recover damages for an alleged
breach of warranty, and we are called upon to consider the
legal effect of a plea to the action, setting up a former recovery
by the plaintiffs.
The traiisaction out of which the controversy arose was a
sale by J, A. Field & Co., defendants in error, to Clement,
Eustis & Co., plaintiffs in error, of a cane mill for the sum of
$1850, whereof $500 was payable in cash, and the rest in
notes secured by a chattel mortgage on the mill. One of the
terms of the sale was a warranty by the vendors that the mill
would do as- good wofk as any other mill for a similar purpose,'and should be of good material and workmanship.
Payment of the notes not having been made, J. A. Field &
Co. brought an action of replevin, under the provisions of the
chattel mortgage, to recover possession of the mill, or, in
default of recovering actual possession, to recover a money
judgment for the unpaid purchase money, amounting, to
$1350 with interest. To the declaration in replevin, Clement, Eustis & Co. pleaded that, by reason of delay in deliver-

CLEMENT v. -FIELD.
Opinion of the Court.

ing the mill and of its failure to come up to the terms of the
warranty, they had been damaged in an amount largely in
excess of the unpaid purchase money.
The issue thus raised was submitted to a jury, with the following instructions:
"The defendants' damages would be, if entitled "to damages, the whole of the cane lost by the delay caused by plaintiffs' fault and failure of the mill to work up to its capacity,
and also the loss of juice during that time caused by the fault
of the mill in not properly pressing it from the cane, and any
expenses incurred in repairs.
"And should you find damages for defendants, and that
such damages equalled or exceeded the entire debt due on the
mill, then you will find for the defendants.
"If you find" damages, but they do not equal plaintiffs'
debt, then you will find for plaintiffs and state the value of
plaintiffs' interest in the mill, which would be their debt and
interest, less the damages."
Under ,tliese instructions the jury found for the plaintiffs,
and assessed the value of the plaintiffs' special interest in the
property at the sum of $1151.20.
As the amount of plaintiffs' unpaid purchase money, at the
time of the trial, was ' $1350 with interest, it is obvious that
the jury allowed the defendants, as a set-off, damages in an
amount of between two hundred and three hundred dollars.
Subsequently, Clement, Eustis & Co. brought the action
which is now before us, claiming damages in a large sum of
money arising out of an alleged delay in the delivery of the
mill, and by reason of an alleged breach of the warranty that
the mill would do its work as well as any other mill, and be
of good material and workmanship.
To this action, J.A. Field & Co., the defendants therein,
pleaded a formqr recovery by Clement, Eustis & Co., in that
in the previous suit in replevin, they had set up the same
claims for damages asserted in the present action, and had been
allowed credit for them by the jury in finding their verdict.
The parties waived a jury, and agreed that the action might
be tried by the court.

OCTOBER TERM,, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

Thereupon, J. A. Field & Co., to sustain their plea of a
former recovery, put in evidence the record of the suit in
replevin. The court was of opinion that the record of the
proceedings in the replevin suit sustained defendants' plea of a
former recovery, and was a complete bar to the plaintiffs'
cause of action in the present case, and entered judgment
accordingly in defendants' favor.
It is claimed in this court that the court below erred in its
judgment sustaining the plea of a former recovery, because the
record in the replevin suit shows that the question of damages
for breach of contract and of warranty was withdrawn from
the jury by the court, except to prevent a recovery therein.
We do not so read the record. On the contrary, it plainly
appears that the court instructed the jury that they were at
liberty to find damages in defendants' favor, and to set off thq
amount of such damages against the plaintiffs' debt. It is
true that the court told the jury that should they find damages for defendants equalling or exceeding the entire debt due
on the mill, they.should then find for the defendants. This
instruction may have been understood to mean that, if defendants' damages exceeded the amount of plaintiffs' claim, the
jury could not go further 'and find a verdict in defendants'
favor for the amount of such excess. And in such an event
it may be that, so far as defendants' damages exceeded the
plaintiffs' debt, the defendants would not have been precluded
from maintaining a subsequent action for such excess.
But the jury's verdict shows that, while they allowed damages in defendants' favor, they found such damages to have
been far less than the amount of plaintiffs' debt, and, accordIingly, if the defendants were bound by that finding of the
jury, there was no excess of danages on which they could
base a shbsequent suit.
In Burnett v. Smith, 4 Gray, 50, it was ruled that, in an
action to recover damages for a false representation as to the
value of certain corporation stock, it was competent for the
plaintiff to avail himself of such false representation in reduction of damages in the action on the note given for the stock.
Another objection urged to the judgment of the court below

CLEUDNT -v. FIELD.
Opinion of the Court.

is that the action in replevin was an action founded upon tort,
and not upon contract, that a set-off can, under the Code of
Kansas, only be pleaded in an action founded on contract, and
that hence the defendants in the replevin suit in question
could not legally plead a set-off of the damages caused by the
breach of warranty.
The Supreme Court of Kansas- disposed of this contention in
Gardner v. Risher, 35 Kansas, 93, which, like the present,
was a case wherein the plaintiff sought, by a writ of replevin,
to enforce the provisions of a chattel mortgage, and the defendant set off against the notes secured by. the mortgage
certain damages incurred by reason of breaches of a contract.
The court held tbat, as the plaintiff's claim was reallyfounded
on contract, the defendant could, notwithstanding that the
form of the action was replevin, avail himself, by way of setoff, of damages caused by the failure of the other party to the
chattel mortgage to comply with his contract.
The later case of lennett v. Fickel, 41 Ka)gs, 211, is cited
on behalf of plaintiffs in error as holdifig tht a set-off cannot
be pleaded as a defence in an action of replevin, because such
an action is founded upon the tort or wrong of the defendant,
and not upon contract. An examination of these two cases
satisfies us. that they are not irreconcilable. They were both
suits in replevin, but, in -the earlier case,, the plaintiff's cause
of action originated in the provisions, of a chattel mortgage,
and the suit in replevin was resorted to in pursuance of one of
those provisions, and was regarded by the court as, in substance, founded on contract. The later case was founded on a
wrongful taking by the defendant of property of the plaintiff,
and was, therefore, in substance as well as form an action
ex delicto.
The replevin suit pleaded in answer in the present case was
substantially a proceeding in enforcement of contract provisions, and therefore within the decision in Gardnerv. Risher,
35 Kaiisas, 93.
Moreover, the record shows that, in point of fact, the de'fendants did plead a set-off in the replevin suit, and had the
benefit of, such a plea, and it seems to us that they 'cannot

