OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Syllabus.

upon the same footing as if the judge were actually present,
and business were actually transacted. The restriction of perdiems to days when the court is actually in session was probably intended to be construed and explaiaedm -connection
with section 831, which provides that ii6&per:diem or 'thern
allowance shall be made for attendance at rule days.
There was no obligation on the part of plaintiff to prove
that the District Court was not in session on the days allowed
for attendance at the place of holding~the Circuit Court, or
that the Circuit Conrt was not in session on the days allowed
for attendance at the place of holding the District Court.
The findings of fact, however, show that the plaintiff is entitled to but 98 days' attendance, instead. of 99, and the
judgment should, therefore, be reduced $5.
This deduction being made, the judgment of the court
below is
Affrmed.

UNITED STATES v. JONES.
.APPEAL FROM

THE DISTRICT
THE SOUTHERN

No. 312.

COURT

OF THE

UNITED

STATES

FOR

DISTRICT OF ALAEAPEA.

Submitted January 6, 1893. -Decided

March 6,1893.

A clerk of a District Court is entitled to charge for entering orders approv-ing marshals' accounts. Unitedi States v. Van Duzee, 140 U. S. 109,
approved.
He is also entitled to charge for certifying copies of such orders to be
-forwarded to the department with the accounts, but not for the seals
affixed to suc i copies unless such authentication is required by the
Treasury Department.
He is also entitled to charge for copies of orders for marshals to pay
supervisors'of elections, without regard to the necessity for such orders,
or the power of the court to make them.
He is als6 entitled to a fee for filing a marshal's account with vouchers
attached, but not to a separate fee for filing each voucher.
He is also entitled to fees for recording; after the determination of a
prosecution, all the proceedings relating to it, including the order of
commitment.
-

UNITED STATES v. JONES.
Opinion of the Court.
United States v. Harmon, 147 U. S. 268, affirmed to the point of the power
of the Treasdry to determine whether the several allowances increase
his salary beyond the maximum compensation.

THE

case is stated in the opinion.

.Mr Solicitor General and Mr1
appellants.

Felix Brannsgan for

.JAf William IV .Dudley, X' -LousT X'ichener and -Hr
Richard ?. A.Meahon for appellee.
MR.

JusTic

Bnowx delivered the opinion of the court.

This was an action for fees alleged to be due the petitioner
Jones for services rendered by him as clerk of the District
Court for the Southern District of Alabama, the items of
which were set out in a bill of particulars annexed to his
petition. Judgment having been rendered in favor of the
petitioner for $292.35, C39 Fed. :Rep. 410, the United States
appealed to this court.
The government assigns as error in this case the allowance
of certain items 1. For entering orders of the court approving marshals'
accounts, making copies thereof, and attaching certificates
under seal to such copies.
2. For copies of orders for marshals to pay supervisors of
election.
3. For filing marshals' accounts current with vouchers
thereto attached.
4.. For making final records, recording bonds and commitments.
1. Charges for entering orders approving marshals' accounts
were allowed in the case of United States v Van -Duzee,140
U. S. 169, 171, and we have seen no reason to change the
opinion there expressed. The labor of preparing one's own
accounts for services or fees is a mere incident to the rendition
of the service, and is universally assumed by the creditor as
his own burden, but the approval of the account of another
VOL. cxLvir-43

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

stands upon a different footing and if performed at the
request of the government, or under a statute requiring it to
be performed for the protection of the government, there is
no reason why the clerk should not receive such fees therefor
as he receives for analogous services in other matters.
We are referred to Revised Statutes, ยง 1765, as expressly
'inhibiting compensation for such services. This section provides that "no officer in any branch of the public service, or
any other person whose salary, pay or emoluments are fixed
by law or regulations, shall receive any additional pay, extra
allowance or compensation in any form whatever,
for any other service or 'duty whatever, unless the same is
authorized by law," etc. It is sufficient to observe of this
that the service charged by the clerk in entering these orders
is strictly in the line of his duty as clerk, that his per folio
fees for such orders are expressly allowed by section 828, and
are not "additional pay, extra allowance or compensation in
any form whatever."
The clerk is also entitled to charge for certifying copies of
such orders to be forwarded to the department, with the
accounts, but not for seals affixed to such copies, unless, as
was held in 7'a Duzee'8 cae, page 174, the Treasury Department i 3quired the copy of such order to be authenticated, not
only by the signature of the clerk, but under seal. The
charge for seals does not seem to have been allowed.
2. The charge for copies of orders for marshals to pay
supervisors of election is objected to on the ground that there
is no law authorizing courts to issue orders to the marshal to
pay supervisors of election or special deputies. The act of
February 22, 1875,18 Stat. 333, c. 95, does require, however, that
"before
any account payable out of the mone'y of
the United States shall be allowed
in favor of clerks,
marshals or district attorneysthe party claiming such account
shall render the same
to a United States Cirdtiit or
District Court,
and. the court shall thereupon cause
to be entered of record an order approving or disapproving
the account," etc. The account in question is clearly within
this section. Supposing it, however, to be a question of doubt,

UNITED STATES v. JONES.
Opinion of the Court.

if the court assumed jurisdiction to make such order, and tne
clerk obeyed it by entering it upon the journal, he is entitled
to his fee therefor, irrespective of the necessity for such order
being made. In fact, he would be guilty of contempt in
refusing to make such entry The government cannot, in this
collateral proceeding, attack the power of the court to make
this order.
3. The charges for filing marshals' accounts current, with
vouchers attached thereto, was objected to upon the ground
that the filing of each voucher separately was not only unnecessary, but improper, since vouchers belong to and are part
of the account to which they pertain. The act of 1875, above
cited, requires the accounts and vouchers of marshals and
other .judicial officers to be made in duplicate, one copy of
which must be forwarded by the clerk to the accounting officers of the Treasury, and the other is to be retained in his
office. Of course, he is entitled to his fee for filfng this
account, but not for filing the vouchers, which are usually
attached to the account, or, if not physically attached to it,
are deemed to be a part of it, and as constituting, with the
account, one paper. The clerk would be as much entitled to
a separate fee for recording each coupon attached to a bond
as for recording each voucher to an account as- a separate
paper.
4. The items for making final records, recording bonds and
commitments. The court below held it to be the duty of the
clerk to record, after the determination of any prosecution, all
the proceedings of the court relating thereto. This record
includes the indictment and other pleadings, the processes,
journal entries, and we think it also includes the order of
commitment, which, as held by the court below, is an
important part of the proceedings in a criminal case, and
should be made a matter of record, where, by the rules or
practice of the court, a record of criminal cases is made up. As
the court held the remainder of the charges included in these
items, for the recording of bail bonds and justification of
sureties, to be no part of the proceedings of the court, and
their entry upon the record as unauthorized and unnecessary,

