OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

SCHUNK

v. MOLINE, MILBURN AND STODDART
COMPANY.

ERRoR TO THE CIRCurr COURT OF THE UNITED STATES FOR THE
DISTRICT OF NEBRASKA.
No. 1153. Submitted January 9,1893.-Decided February 6,1893.

A statute of the State of Nebraska authorizes a creditor in certain cases to
bring an action on a claim before it is due and to have an attachment
against the property of the debtor. A citizen of Ohio brought an action
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the district of Nebraska
against a citizen of Nebraska, to recover $530.09 which was overdue,
and -$1664.04 which was to become payable in the following month, and
an attachment was issued under the statute against the defendant's property. The Circuit Court sustained its jurisdiction and gave judgment in
plaintiff's favor for both sums. Hreld,
(1) That the Circuit Court had jurisdiction, notwithstanding the fact
that a part of the sum sued for was not due and payable when the
action was commenced, and the amount actually due and payable
was less than $2000;
(2) That if there were any error in the decision, on which this court
expresses no opinion, the defendant, if desiring to have it reviewed
should have taken the case to the Circuit Court of Appeals.

Ox the 14th of November, 1891, defendant in error commenced a suit against 3. A. Schunk in the Circuit Court of
the United States for the District of Nebraska on several
notes, some of which, amounting to $530.09, were past due,
while the others, amounting to $1664.04, were not then due.
The prayer of the petition was in these words:
"Wherefore the plaintiff prays judgment against the said
defendant for the said sum of $530.09, with interest thereon
from the respective dates of the notes which are now past due,
together with the further sum of $1664.04, which will become
due, and payable the*1st and,8th days of December, 1891,
with interest thereon from the respective dates of said promissory notes, and the plaintiff prays that it recover a judgment
for all of its costs paid out and expended in this action, and

SCHUTNK v. MOLINE, MILBURN & STODDART CO.

501

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

plaintiff further prays for a judgment against said defendant
for all reasonable costi of collection of the above-mentioned
indebtedness,, and "for a judgment including plaintiff's attprney's fees in the sum of $250."
Under the provisions of the state statutes, an attachment
was issued against the property of the defendant. The section
authorizing this is in these words:
"Sec. 23(. A creditor may bring an action on a claim before
it is due, and have an attachment against the property of the
debtor, in the following cases: -First.Where a debtor has
sold, conveyed, or otherwise disposed of his property, with
the fraudulent intent to cheat or defraud his creditors, or to
hinder or delay them in the collection of their debts. Second..
Where he is about to make such sale, conveyance, or disposition of his property, with such fradulent intent. TAird.
Where he is about to remove his property, or a material part
thereof, with the intent or to the effect of cheating or defrauding his creditors, or of hindering and delaying them in the
collection of their debts." Cobbey's Consolidated Statutes,
1891, p. 1003; Compiled Stats. Neb. 1891, p. 884.
Subsequent sections prescribe the proceedings to be pursued,
the regularity of which in this case is not challenged. A
demurrer to the petition on the ground, among others, that
no cause of action was stated was overruled, a motion to
discharge the attachment denied, and judgment rendered on
May 21, 1892,. for the sum of $2347.50, together with $100
as an attorney's fee. To reverse this judgment the defendant
below, as plaintiff in error, has. sued out a writ of error from
this court.
.MY. Walter J. Lamb, MAr. ,Arnott C. Ricketts and Mr.
Henry H Wilson, for plaintiff in error.
An attachment upon a claim not yet due is a different thing
from an attachment upon a claim already due. In the former
the attachment is an original process; in the latter an ancillary
process, arising out of the jurisdiction over the principal cause
of action. Where jurisdiction has been obtained over a cause
of action on a claim already due, it is in no way affected by

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

the success or failure of the attachment proceeding. That
proceeding is merely ancillary to the principal case, and the
court still exercises its jurisdiction over the principal case
regardless of the fate of the attachment proceeding. It was
clearly this ancillary proceeding, ,in no way affecting the
original jurisdiction of* the court, that must have bedu contemplated by section 915 of the Revised Statutes. It is,
however, entirely different when an attachment is issued upon
a demand before due. There the court has no jurisdiction to
hear and determine the principal case except by virtue of the
jurisdiction obtained by the. seizure of the property. There
the original and substantial jurisdiction is the power to attach
and sequester the defendant's property and to hold it to answer the plaintiff's demand when-the same shall become due.
In such a proceeding, the right to maintain the action at all
rests wholly upon the success of the attachment proceeding.
No suit can be maintained in any court upon such a demand
under the Nebraska statute except by virtue of the seizure of
the property. Green v. Raymond, 9 Nebraska, 295.
In the event that the attachment proceedings are wrongfully
brought and on motion the attachment is dissolved, the court
loses jurisdiction over the whole matter and cannot enter
judgment on the claim after it becomes due if it was not due
at the commencement of the suit. In other words, in this
class of attachments the jurisdiction over the claim, not yet
due, is incidental and ancillary to the original and independent
jurisdiction to issue the attachment, seize and sequester the
property. Pierce v. .Afyers, 28 Kansas, 364. Gowan v. Ranse1.
55 Wisconsin, 341.
It will be noticed that sec. 915 of the Revised Statutes of
the United States restricts remedies by attachment to "co m mon law causes," while the Nebraska code authorizes such an
attachment in the state court in any civil action, whether it be
at common law, in equity, or founded upon a statute. The
Federal statute cannot be held to carry into Federal jurisprudence the whole state law of attachments. At common law
an action upon a claim not yet due was unknown. No suit
could Jbe maintained except upon a present obligation to pay.

SCHUNK ,v.
MOLINE, MILBURN & STODDART CO.

503

Opinion of the Court.

This action, being a purely statutory proceeding, not primarily to liquidate a demand about which a controversy has
arisen, but to seize and hold defendant's property to answer a
claim to mature in the future about which no controversy has
or could have yet arisen, does not come within the class of
"common law causes" mentioned in Rev. Stat. ยง 915. Strictly
speaking, it is not an action on the debt at all but a statutory
proceeding to seize and hold property till a cause of action
arises. That being the nature of this proceeding, the Circuit
Court acquired no jurisdiction over it, and had no power to
order the seizure of such property in a case where it had no
jurisdiction of the subject matter without such seizure. The
jurisdiction must exist in order to give the power to make the
seizure. Such jurisdiction cannot be founded upon the seizure.
The state, and not the Federal legislature, has conferred the
jurisdiction to issue an original attachment, and the state legislature has power to confer it upon the State but not upon
the national tribunals.
Mr.Jon L. Wstebr, -Mr. Warren Switzler and -Mr.James
.ftlontosh for defendant in error.
MR. JusTicE BREWBR, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.
In this case the only question that can be considered 'is,
under section 5 of the Court of Appeals act of Iffarch 3, 18.91,
26 Stat. 826, c. 517, that of the jurisdiction of the Circuit
Court. Milisk v. ]?of, 141 U. S.661.
The- errors assigned are, first, in overruling the demurrer;
second, in holding that the court had jurisdiction to seize and
sequester the property to secure the payment of a debt not yet
due; third, in holding'that it had jurisdiction to issue an attachment upon a demand not yet due; and, fourth, in allowing an
attorney's fee. Of course, the latter matter presents no question of jurisdiction.
With respect to the other assignments, the plaintiff was a
corporation created by and a citizen of the State of Ohio, and

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

the defendant a citizen of Nebraska. The jurisdiction of the
Circuit Court was, therefore, invokead on the ground of diverse
citizenship. By the act of March 3, 1887, 24 Stat. 552, c. 373,
as corrected by the act of August 13, 1888, 25 Stat. 433, c.866,
jurisdiction is given to the Citcuit Courts over controversies
"between citizens of different States, in which the matter in
dispute exceeds" the sum or value of two thousand dollars.
The claim of the plaintiff was to recover $2194.13 and interest. The right to recover this, or any part thereof, was. challenged by the demurrer.
In Gaines v. Fuentes et al., 92 U. S.10, 20, this court said:
"A controversy was involved, in the sense of the statute,
whenever any property or claim of the parties capable of
pecuniary estimation was the subject of litigation and was
presented by the pleadings for judicial determination."
Hilton v. Dickinson, 108 U. S.165.
Within the letter of the statute there was, therefore, a
controversy between citizens of different States, in which the
matter in dispute was over the sum or value of two thousand
dollars.
It matters not that, by the showing in the petition, part of
this sum was not yet due. Plaintiff insisted that it had a
right to recover all. That was its claim, and the claim which
was disputed by the defendant. Suppose there were no statute in Nebraska like that referred to, and the plaintiff filed a
petition exactly like the one before us, excepting that no
attachment was asked for, and the right to recover anything
was challenged by demurrer, would not the matter in dispute be the amount claimed in the petition? Although there
might be a perfect defence to the suit for at least the amount
not yet due, yet the -fact of a defence, and a good defence,
too, would not affect the question as to what was the amount
in dispute. Suppose an action were brought on a non-negotiable note for $2500, the consideration for which was fully
stated in the petition, and which was a sale of lottery tickets,
or any other matter distinctly prohibited by statute, can there
be a doubt that the Circuit Court would have jurisdiction?
There would be presented a claim to recover the $2500 ; and

SCK1J1NK v. MOLINE, MILBURN & STODDART CO.

505

Opinion of the Court.

whether that claim was sustainable or not, that would be the
real sum in dispute. In short, the fact of a valid defence to
a cause of action, although apparent on the face of the petition, does not diminish the amount that is claimed, nor determine what is the matter in dispute; for wh'o can say in advance
that that defence will be presented by the defendant, or, if
presented sustained by the court . We do not mean that a
claim, evidently fictitious, and alleged simply to create a jurisdictional amount, is sufficient to give jurisdiction. In Bowman v. Chicago &c. Railway, 115 U. S. 611, the damages as
originally stated in the declaration were $1!"00. By amendment they were raised to $10,000 ; but it being evident that the
increase was simply to give this court jurisdiction on error, and
not because there was really a claim for any such damages, the
case was dismissed for want of jurisdiction. The authorities
on this question are collected in the opinion of Chief Justice
Waite; and it may be laid down as a general proposition, that
no mere pretence as to the amount in dispute will avail to
create jurisdiction. But here there was no pretence. The
plaintiff in evident good faith, and relying upon the express
language of a statute, asserted a right to recover over $2000;
and that its claim was not merely specious, is shown by the
fact that after a contest it did recover a judgment for the full
amount that it claimed, A case much in point is that of
Upton v. fcLaugklin, 10.5 U. S. 640, 644. That was a suit
brought by an assignee in bankruptcy more than two years
after the cause of action accrued, and it was claimed that the
trial court had no jurisdiction, because of a provision of section
5057 of the .Revised Statutes of the United States, that "no
suit, either at law or in equity, shall be maintainable in ahy
court between an assignee in bankruptcy.and a person claiming an adverse interest, touching any property or rights of
property transferable to or vested in such assignee, unless
brought within two years from the time when the cause of
action accrued for or against such assignee." But it was held
that the court did have jurisdiction, and this, notwithstanding
sections 55 and 57 of the Code of Civil Procedure of Wyoming,
the Territory in which that litigation took place, authorized.

OCTOBER TERX, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

a defendant to demur to the petition when it appeared upon
its face either that the court had no jurisdiction or that
the petition did not state facts sufficient to constitute a
cause of action, and also proyided that these objections
were not waived by not taking them by either demurrer
or answer, Speaking for the court, Mr. Justice Blatchford said: "It is contended that a petition which shows
upon its face that the cause of action is barred by a statute
of limitation, is a petition which does not state facts sufficient
to constitute a cause of action; and that that objection, though
not taken by demurrer or answer, may be taken at any time.
But we are of opinion that the statutory provisions referred
to cannot properly be construed as allowing the defence of
a bar by a statute of limitation to be raised for the first time
in an appellate court, even though the petition might have
been demurred to as showing on its face that the cause of
action is so barred, and thus as not stating facts sufficient to
constitute a cause of action." In other words, it was held
that although there was a perfect defence apparent upon the
face of the petition, yet the court had jurisdiction -i.e., the
right to hear and determine; and further, in that case, that
the defence was not available when suggested for the first
time in the appellate court. So, here, the Circuit Court had
jurisdiction, because the amount claimed was over two thousand dollars; and although it appeared upon the face of the
petition that a part of the claim was not yet due, still the
right to hear and determine
court had jurisdiction -the
whether this matter constituted a good defence to any part
of the amount claimed.
But it is said that the plaintiff, in a Federal court, cannot
avail himself of the right given by a state statute, to attach
for a claim not yet due; that state statutes can confer no
jurisdiction on the Federal courts; and that, therefore, the
Circuit Court had no jurisdiction to issue the attachment in
this case. Even if it were conceded that such contention were
well founded, (and we express no opinion in that matter,) the
result would not be as claimed, that the Circuit Court was
ousted"of all jurisdiction. It would be simply an instance in

SCHUNK v. MOLINE, MIL13URN & STObDART CO.

507

Opinion of the Court.

which a court having jurisdiction gave to a party greater
relief than he was entitled to. Surely, the court, the matter
in dispute being over two thousand dollars,, and therefore
a controversy within its jurisdiction, has a right to hear and
d.termine, in the exercise of jurisdiction, whether the plaintiff
was entitled to this extraordinary relief. If it be conceded
that it erred in granting such relief, it would be simply
a matter of error, and not one of jurisdiction.
But was it error? Section 915, Revised Statutes, provides
that "in common law causes in the Circuit and District Courts
the plaintiff shall be entitled to similar remedies, by attachment or other process, against the property of the defendant,
which are now provided by the laws of the State in which
such court is held for the courts thereof; and such Circuit or
District Courts may, from time to time, by general rules,
adopt such state laws as may be in force in the States where
they are held in relation to attachments and other process:
.Provided,That, similar preliminary affidavits or. proofs, and,
similar security, as required by such state laws, shall be first
furnished by the party seeking such attachment or other
remedy."
It is sufficient to say that this section of the statute makes
it clear that a question was presented worthy at least of the
consideration of the Circuit Court, and whose determination,
even though erroneous, was not sufficient to oust the court of
jurisdiction.
Unquestionably, the Circuit Court had jurisdiction; and if
-the defendant sought to have any matter of error considered,
it should have-taken the case to the Circuit Court of Appeals.
Judgment a irmed.
MR.JusTICE FraIn dissented.

