MONROE CATTLE COMPATY v. BECKER.
Syllabus.

limited time provided by law. If such proceedings are not
so begun, the lien would be valid and effectual. How, then,
can it be construed to be actual fraud to pursue a legal remedy
which may be efficacious, and especially when no action of
the bankrupt debtor gives the creditor the obnoxious preference?" [Record. This case is not reported. See 36 Hun,
640.]
It follows that, as the bank was noi precluded from proving
its claim, Streeter, the endorser, coufd, by paying and lifting
the notes, have participated in the distribution of the bankrupt
estate, and hence, has failed to show any defence to the suit
of the bank. Thejudgment of the court below is therefore
Afflhmed.

MONROE CATTLE COMPANY v. BECKER.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT' OF THE UNITED STATES FOR
THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.
No., 87. Submitted December 9, 1892. -Decfded

January 3, 1893.

During the ninety days allowed by the statutes of Texas concerning the
purchase of school lands to a purchaser to make his first payment, (Laws.
of 1879, special session, p. 23, Laws of 1881, p, 119,) it 16 not cZmpetentfor the surveyor to permit a person who had filed an application for a
designated tract to treat the application as withdrawn and abandoned,
and to make another application -for the same tract in the name -of a
different person.
During that period of ninety days the land is in the position of'reserved
lands under railroad grant acts, to which it is well settled that the grant
does not attach if the land is in any way segregated from the public
lanids.
The issue of a patent of public land to a person who is not equitably
entitled to it does not preclude the owner of the equitable title from
enforcing it in a court of equity against claimants under the patent.
Where the defendant in a suit in equity answers under oath denying charges
of fraud, and no other evidence is offered, the charges are not sustained.
.Vharges of fraud made upon information 'and belief and not sustained by
proof must be treated as not sustained.
Under the laws of Texas regulating the sale of the school lands, a purchaser who makes the first payment called for, who executes the obliga:

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.
tions for subsequent payments as called for, and complies with those
obligations as they mature, is protected against forfeiture.
The act of the legislature of Texas of April 14, 1883, concerning purchases
of school lands, had no effect 'upon the vested rights of the plaintiff in
this case.
It is bad pleading to describe a party by the initials only of his Christi'an
name, but, when no advantage is taken of the defect in the court below,
it will not be considered here.

-Tnis Was a bill in equity to enjoin an action at law for the
recovery of the possession -of eleven sections of school lands
-in Shackleford County, Texas, and for the cancellation and
annulment of certain patents for the same issued to the
defendant Becker.
By an act of the legislature of Texas of July 8, 1879, Laws,
1879, Special Session, p. 23, as amended by a subsequent act of
April 6,.1881, Gen. Laws, 1881, p. 119, provision was made for
the sale of lands set apart for the benefit of the school fund,
and for a method of bringing such lands into the market.
This method is described in sections 6, 1, and 8 of the amended
act, and sections 9, 10, and 15 6f the original act, and is substantially as follows:
1. The purchaser applies to the surveyor of the county in
which the land is situated, describing the land he proposes to
purchase, which must not exceed seven sections, and pays the
surveyor one dollar.
2. The surveyor records the application in a book kept for
the purpose, and endorses such ,application, "recorded," giving
the date, page and volume of the record, signs his name thereto,
and delivers the application to the proposed purchaser.
3. The purchaser immediately forwards the application to
the State Treasurer, together with one-twentieth of the appraised value of the land.
4. The treasurer enters a credit in his books for the amount
received, giving a description of the land, and then issues his
receipt for the money, and forwards it, with the application,
to the Commissioner of the General Land Office.
5. The Commissioner of the General Land Office files the
application and receipt inhis office, and issues his own receipt

MONROE CATTLE COMPANY v. BECKER.
Statement of the Case.

in lieu thereof, setting forth the amount paid to the treasurer
and the quantity and valuation of the land applied for.
6. This certificate or receipt authorizes the surveyor to survey the land embraced in the original application.
7. The surveyor is then required to enter the same on his
books as sold, and is forbidden to entertain another application
for such land until notified of the forfeiture.
8. The applicant is required t5 nmake his first payment of
one-twentieth, or the whole, as the *case may be, of the value
of the land, and present the receipt of the Commissioner of the
General Land Office to the surveyor within nintey days from the
date of the record of his application, and, if he fail to do this,
the land is again treated-fs for sale, and the surveyor is authorized to receive applications for its purchase.
9. No person can renew his file, nor file- on the same land
more than once in twelve months, nor can he renew his file in
the name of any other person. All applications for the .purchase of lands areirequired to be made in -the real name of
the person intending to be the a9tual purchaser thereof.
10. Upon the receipt of the application by the surveyor,
the purchaser is required to execute his promissory note payable to the governor, for the biance of the appraised value
of the land, which note is forwalded to the Commissioner of
the General Land Office and registered in a book, and then
delivered to the treasurer of the State to be filed in his office.
Under the provisions of these acts no one person could purchase more than seven sections of land.
On November 25, 1882, one J. A. Rhomberg, (whose Christian name does not appear,) a resident of Iowa, but engaged
in the construction and operation of a railroad in Texas, made
application for the purchase of seven sections of the land in
questioh on behalf of Maggie L. Rhomberg, and also made
application for the remaining four sections on behalf of one
Frank Robinson, and filed the same with the surveyor of the
county pursuant to these .acts. The surveyor received and
recorded the applications, endorsed them as recorded, and
returned them duly endorsed to Rhomberg, who was acting
as agent of both of these applicants.
VOL. XLVII-

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Statement of the Case.

Prior to this time, however, and as early as February 28"of

the same year, Rhomberg had made application for the same
land in the name of different persons; had allowed these ap'
plications to lapse by the non-payment of the twentieth of
their value withii. ninety days; and on the 29th and 30th of
May had made other applications in the name of other persons, and had also allowed these to lapse by non-payment;
and, again, on the 28th of August had made other applications in still other names,, and in this way had kept the lands
out; of the -market, ufltil November 25, when he made the
final applications above stated.
Before any further action was taken upon the last applications, and on January 2, 1883, one F. B. Jacobs, and on Jannary 8 one Maliftda Fisher, filed their applications with the
surveyor for the purchase of the same lands. The surveyor
recorded these applications, endorsed upon them a memorandum bf such record, and returned them duly endorsed to the
applicant.
On January 9 these applications of Jacobs were delivered
to the State Treasurer and first payments were made on each
of the sections applied for in his name. The applications of
Malindit Fisher were also 'delivered to the State Treasurer, the
'date of which does not exactly appear, but the first payments
were-also made upon these applications before January 18.
The treasurer received the applications and first payments of
Jacobs and Fisher, made the proper entries in his books, issued
his receipts for the money, ahd forwarded the receipts and applications to' the Commissioner of the General Land Office.
The Commissioner received and filed the applications and
receipts, made the proper entries upon his- books, and delivered his certificates in lieu of said receipts, all within less
than ninety days from the original applications of N'ovember
25.
On January 18, a few days after the applications of Jacobs
and Fisher, but less than ninety days after his last application
of November 25, Rhomberg presented his applications duly
endorsed to the State Treasurer, and tendered to him the first
payments required by the act to be made upon each of the

MONROE CATTLE COMPAY v. BECKER.
Statement of the Case.

eleven sections. The treasurer refused to receive sqch applications, or to accept the money, giving as -his reason for such
refusal that previous payments had been made upon these sections in the names of Jacobs and Fisher.
Rhomberg did not abandon these applications, but continued
to press them and made repeated tenders to the State Treasurer,
who, after several refusals, finally, on February 17, 1885, received the applications, accepted the :first payments, made all
the entries required by law regarding the same, issued his
receipts for the payments, and forwarded the applications
wvith the receipts to the Commissioner of the General Land
Office. The Commissioner of the General Land Office ruled at
first that first payments could not be received from two different applicants for the same sections, but finally withdrew
this ruling and accepted the tender made by Rhomberg on
February 17, 1885.
The title of Maggie L. Rhomberg and Frank Robinson-became subsequently vested by intermediate conveyances in the
defendant Becker, who, in May and June, 1886, made full and
final payments to the State Treasurer of the purchase money,
and letters patent were subsequently, and in the years 1886
and 1987, issued to him by the proper officers of the State of
Texas for the whole eleven sections.
-On -arch 12, 1883, Jacobs and Fisher conveyed the sections for which they had applied to the Monroe Cattle Company, which,enclosed the land in controversy in its pastures,
used and occupied the same and paid taxes thereon, but made
no further effort to perfect its claim to the land, nor -made
any further payments of purchase money, either of principal
or of interest, although, under the acts of 1878 and 1881, payments of interest were required to be made on or before the
first day of March of each-year upon all purchases of school
lands, the appraised value of which had not been fully paid.On February 14, 18ST, the defendant Becker began an
action of ejectment against the Monroe Cattle Conpany, and
on February 1, 1888, the latter filed this bill to restrain Becker.
from further prosecuting, his action at law, to remove the
cloud upon its title to the land, and for the cancellation of

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

the patents granted to the defendant. Upon a hearing on
the pleadings paid proofs, the court entered a decree dismissing the bill, and the plaintiff appealed to this court.,

.M'. A. -. Gcrland and XMr'. H. J _May for appellant.
.Mr.William D. Williams for appellee.
Mn. JusTic. BnoWv,
opinion of the court.

after stating the case, delivered the

This case involves the construction of the statutes of Texas
with regard to the purchase of school lands, and depends upon,
the question whether, during the ninety days allowed to the
proposed purchaser to make his first, payment, it is competent
for the surveyor to receive another application for the same
land, or rather to permit a person, who had theretofore filed
applications for two parties, to treat such applications as withdrawn and abandoned, ana to make other applications in the
name of different persons within the ninety days.
,No one can examine critically the provisions of the statutes
in question without noticing the solicitude of the legislature
to prevent a monopoly of these lands by capitalists, or their
withdrawal from the market by fictitious applications. To
secure a measurably equal allotment to each purchaser it was
provided:
1. That no one should purchase more than three sections
within five miles of the centre of any county or upon any
water front, nor more than seven sections in any case. 2. That he should make his first payment within ninety
days of his application.
3. That applications should be made in the real name of
the actual purchaser.
4. That no one should reiew his application nor file on the
same land more than once in twelve months.
5. "That no one should renew his file in the name of another.
In this case there were circumstances calculated to arouse
suspicion in the conduct of both parties. Upon the one hand,

MONROE CATTLE COMPANY v. BECKER.
Opinion of the Court.

Rhomberg made application on February 28, 1882, for the
purchase of these eleven sections in the names of F. Becker.
S. L. Rhomberg and Conrad Becker. These applications
were suffered to lapse, and on the ninetieth day thereafter,
namely, May 29, he made application for seven sections of the
same lands in the name of J. M. Beechem, and on the following day for four sections in the name of X. B. Thompson.
These applications were also suffered to lapse, and ninety-two
days thereafter, namely, August 28 he applied for the same
sections, except section 66, in the narhe of Margaretta Rhomberg and F. M. Robinson. He also seems to have intended
that these should lapse, but as the ninetieth day, November
26, fell on Sunday, he wrote his attorneys on the 22d,: "The
old file expires on Sunday next. You will, therefore, probably
have to refile on Saturday." A new application was, therefore,
made on Saturday, November 25, in the name of Maggie 1.
Rhomberg and Frank Robinson. In this connection, the bill
charged that Rhomberg made these applications.in the names
of other persons, who did not intend to be actual purchasers,
for his own .use and benefit, in order to acquire more than he
was permitted to purchase directly from the State; that he
further determined, in violation of the provision against renewing files in the names of other persons, to take advantage of
the ninety-day limit, to allow the applications to be forfeited,
and to make new applications in the, names of other persons,
not intending to be actual purchasers, and thus to hold the
lands for a longer period than was permitted by the law; and,
for the time being, to avoid the payment of any part of the
purchase money and of the taxes, which would be assessed
after the first payments had been made.
An answer under oath being required, the defendant denied
the fraudulent purposes and designs charged against Rhomberg in the bill, and, in his testimony, Rhomberg swore that
Margaretta and Maggie L. Rhomberg were different persons,
as were also F. M. Robinson and Frank Robinson, and that
they were each of them bonctfde living persons, three of themn
livifig in Iowa, and one in Chicago; that Margaretta Rhomberg was his sister-in-law; that he was only distantly related

OCTOBER TERM~f, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

S-to the husband' of Maggie L- Rhomberg, and that he was not
ielated to either-of the Robin~ons; that he was not interested
in any of the purchases himself; that he considered invest.menti in Texas school lands good, and made his views known
to many of his relatives and friends, and advised them to buy;
that, as he was making his headquarters in Texas, many of
them confided their interests to him; that he looked after them
without dema'nding or e~pecting any pay for his services; and
that the persons for whom he acted furnished the money to
pay 'for the lands. He admitted making. several applications
to purchase the lands in question, and that these were abandoned without making the first payments; that the different
applications were not renewals, but were for different persons;
and that they were not intended to keep other persons from
purchasing, the lands. In short, that the applications were
made bona)F& for the benefit of the applicants, and that he
.had no personal interest in any of them. As there was no
testimony contradictory of this, .homberg being the only
witness exanined on the subject the charges of fraud must
be regarded as not sustained, if, indeed, the answer be not sufficient for that purpose without other testimony, Hughe v.
Blake, 6 Wheat. 453; VFigel v. Hropp, 104: U. S: 441; .Beal8
v. ll1lnoiq, _fi88oui & Texas Railroad,133 U. S. 2"90.
Upon the other hand, the answer charges that one H. 0.
Jacobs 'was county surveyor, and J. L. Fisher was county
judge of Shackleford County; that they were partners as
real estate agents, transacting business under the name of
Jacobs & Fisher; that the F. B. Jacobs, who made application in January, was a brother of H. C. Jacobs; and postmaster at-Albany, the county seat of Shackleford County, and
that Malinda Fishr who applied for the remainder of the
lands, was the wife of one John A. Fisher, deputy surveyor of
the county, and brother of the other member of the firm of
Jacobs & Fisher; that they entered into a conspiracy to levy
a contribution upon all the purchasers of school lands in the
county, and to control the same for their own benefit; that
the firm of Jacobs & Fisher wrote letters' to Rhomberg soliciting his business, promising to sell his lands at an advance,

MONROE CATTLE COMPANY

. BECKER.

Opinion of the Court.

and offered to make files of applications, promising special
favors and attention, to all who should employ them. It
seems that Rhomberg did employ them in this connection,
and had some correspondence with'them. As these charges
were made upon, information and belief only, and as there is
-noevidence to support them, except the similarity of names,
they must also be treated as not sustained.
I. The case resolves itsejf, then, into the simple question
whether the surveyor was authorized to receive the applications of November 25, and whether the plaintiff is in a position
to take advantage of his failur of jurisdiction in this particular.
The language of the act is somewhat ambiguous, but the intent
of the legislature that no application shall be entertained within
the ninety days is entirely clear. It provides that the State
Treasurer "shall then issue his receipt for said amount and
forward it, with the above named application, to the Commissioner of the General Land Office, who shall file said application and receipt in his office, and issue his receipt in
lieu thereof,
.
.
which certificate shall authorize the
. surveyor to survey the land . . . and enter the

same on his books as sold, and 8ealZ not entertain another
a_"licaticnto purchase said land until notified of the forfeiture as hereinafter specified." Grammatically, the words "shall
not entertain" refer to the Commissioner of the Land Office;
but the proviso that "should the applicant fail to make his
first payment . . . and present the certificate of the Commissioner of the General Land Office to the surveyor or his
'deputy within ninety days from the date of the record of his
application, then and in that case the said lands shall be again
for sale, and the surveyor shall be authorized to receive applications for the same,". indicate that the. words, "shall not
entertain another application," refer to the surveyor and no6.
to the commissioner. As more than ninety days had elapsed
from May 29 and 30, the applications of August 28 are admitted
to have been regular, and no other application could have been
lawfully entertained within ninety days thereafter. As the
ninetieth day fell on Sunday, the lands were not open to another application until Monday, the general rule being that,

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

when an act is to be performed within a certain number of
days, and the last day falls on Sunday, the person charged'
with the performance of the act has the following day to
comply with his obligation. Endlich on Statutes, ยง, 393;
Salter v. Burt, 20 Wend.'205; Hammond v. Ameiican Life
Ins. Co., 10 Gray, 306. The defendant claims that, while the
act prohibited the entertaining of a second application in
less than ninety days from the prior application, IRhomberg
in fact had the right to withdraw and abandon the application
and make another at any time within the ninety days. As no
record exists of its abandonment, and no allusion is made to it
in Rhomberg's letter of November 22, such abandonment can
only be presumed from the fact that the new application was
made November 25. There is nothing, however, to distinguish
this from the prior applications in that particular. A construction of the act, too, which would permit such an abandonment
would defeat the very object of the legislature, which was to fix
a time within which no other application should be entertained,
so that parties desiring to purchase the land would be apprised
of the day when it would be open to an application. Such persons, however, could never know when an application would be
abandoned, and such proceedings would permit an applicant,
by a simple change of name of the person he represents, to
keep the lands 'ut of the market for an indefinite period. It
is true that in Afartim v. Brown, 62 Texas, 467, it Was held
that a fictitious application to purchase would not have the
effect of preventing another person from applying before the
expiration of the ninety days, but it certainly does not lie in
the mouth of the defendant to claim that Rhomberg's first
application was fictitious, since his whole case depends upon
the propriety and legality of his action. In 3lartin v. Brown
the demurrer admitted that the first application was fictitious
and made by an agent for his own benefit, for the purpose of
withholding the lands from the market. In this case the
defendant claims, and proves by the testimony of Rhomberg,
that the application was made by him in good faith for the
benefit of the applicants, and not fbr his own.
During the ninety days allo~ved by law for the first payment

MON1ROE CATTLE COMPANgY v. BECKER.
Opinion of the Court.

the land is in the position of reserved lands under railroad
grant acts. The grant does not attach to them, if, at the
time, they are preempted or otherwise segregated from the
public lands. This principle is established by a large number
of cases in this court. TFilcox v. Jackson, 13 Pet. 498; Leavenworth, Lawrence &c. Railroad v. United States, 92 U. S.
733; -a nsas Paciic Railway V. Dunmeyer, 113 U. S. 629;
Hastings c Dakota Railroad v. Whitney, 132 U. S. 357;
Bardon v. .Yortherm Pacific Railroad,145 U. S. 535; United
ailroa, 146 U. S. 570.
States v. Southern Pao;.Rc
Defendant's position that the subsequent issuing of a patent
put an endto the equitable rights of the appellant, cannot be
sustained either under the decisions of this court or that of
the Supreme Court of Texas. In the case of Garland v.
Wynn, 20 How. 6, 8, the general rule was stated to be "that
where several parties set up conflicting claims to property,
with which a special tribunal may deal, as between one party
and the government, regardless of the rights of others, the
latter may come into the ordinary coirts of justice and litigate their conflicting claims." To the same effect are Gunninghamn v. Ashley, 14 How. 377 ; Lytle v. Arkansas, 22 How.
193, 203; Berthold v. .2ecDonald, 22 How. 334; Lindsey v.
H.Jawes, 2 Black, 551; Shepley v. Cowan, 91 U. S. 330; BoIhall
v. .Dilla,114 U. S. 47; Sturr v. Beck, 133 U. S. 541, 550. In
the case of Stark v. Starrs,6 Wall. 402, 419, these cases are
said to be "-only applications of the well-established doctrine,
that where one party has acquired the legal title to property
to which another has a better right, a court of equity will
convert him into a trustee of the true owner, and compel him
to convey the legal title." And in Silver v. Ladd, 7 Wall.
219, it was held that the proper relief was not the annulment
and cancellation of the patent wrongfully issued, but was ono
founded upon the theory that the title which had passed from
the United States to the defendant enured in equity to the
benefit of the plaintiff, and that the decree should compel him
to convey to the plaintiff, or to have such conveyance made
in his name by a commissioner appointed by the court for that
purpose. See also Johnson v. Towsley, 13 Wall. 72. It seems

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

that this is also the law of Texas. Todd v. .ff7sher, 26 Texas,
239; .Mitchell v. Bass, 26 Texas, 376; League v. Rogan,
59 Texas, 427; Sherwood v. Flemming, 25 Texas, 408, 427;
1V'igkt v. Hawkins, 28 Texas, 452.
IL It is no defence that plaintiff has not complied with the
law as to making the final payments. It appears that Jacobs
and Fisher executed their obligations, as required by the
act, for the balance of the appraised value, and that such
obligations as have matured have been discharged and paid
off, as well as the matured interest thereon. In any event,
the defendant is in no position to claim a forfeiture on this
ground. Canales v. .Perez, 65 Texas, 291; . . 69 Texas,
676.
III. The act of the legislature of Texas, approved April
14, 1883; for the appointment of a land board to investigate
all purchases of state school lands held under the acts of 1879
and 1881, cuts no figure in this case. Such an act could operate only as between the State and the purchaser. It would
be beyond the competency of the legislature to affect the
vested rights of the plaintiff as between him and the defendant
by the passage of the act in question.
IV. Section 66 was not included in the applications of
August 28, but was jncluded in one of those of N7ovember 25,
and, therefore, as to this section the defendant has shown the
better right.
I V. Defendant was impleaded by the -name of "A. W.
Becker." Initials are no legal part of a name, the authorities
holding the full Christian name to be essential. Wilson v.
S7annon, 6 Arkansas,"196; Hfrris v. Graves, 4 Strob. (Law,)
32; iSeeby v. Boon, Coxe, N. J. (1 N. J. Law,) 138; Chappellv.
Proctor,.Harp.S. C. (Law,) 49; Hinneisley v. KYnott, 7.C. B.
980; Turner v. Fitt, 3 C. B. 701 ; Oakley v. Pegler, 46 N. W.
:Rep. 920; Knox v. Starcs, 4 Minnesota, 20; Kenyon v. Semon,
45 N. W. IRep. 10; Beggs v. IFellman, 82 Alabama, 391; lgash
.v. Collier, 5 DowL & L. 341; ]?ewlass v. Abbott, -28 Michigan,
270. This loose method of pleading is not one to be commended, but as no -advantage was taken of it in the court
below, it will not be considered here.

