OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Syllabus.

and as no appeal was taken by the petitioner, we are not
called upon to express an opinion with regard to them.
5. The judgment is further claimed to be erroneous upon
the ground that it does not appear that the amount of the
judgment, together with the compensation already paid to
petitioner as clerk of the court, would increase his emoluments beyond the limits prescribed by law for his office.
this objection, however, does not apply to any particular
iteh, but i' a matter to be considered by the officers of the
department when the whole account is stated and settled.
If the maximum compensation has already been allowed and
paid, perhaps it might be matter of defence to be pleaded and
proven by the government, but we are clearly of the opinion
that it cannot be raised in this manner, and so held in the
case of United States v -Harmon,ante, 268, decided at the
present term.
The judgment of the court -below is, therefore,
Reversed, and the oase remanded, with directions to -reduce
the judgment sm conformity with thts opznzon.

UNITED STATES v. KING.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT

COURT OF THE UNITED STATES

FOR

THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF GEORGIA.
No. 628.

Submitted January 9, 1893.-Peclded March 6, 1893.

A clerk of a Circuit Court is not entitled to a per-diem pay for services in
selecting juries in connection with the jury commissioner.
When a statute increases the duties of an officer by the addition of other
duties germane to the office, he must perform them without extra compensation; but if he is employed to render services in an independent
employment, not -incidental to his official duties, he may recover for such
services.

When a clerk of a Circuit Court attends the court personally at one place
within the district, and appoints a deputy to attend it at another place or
in a different division of the same judicial district, he is entitled, under
Rev. Stat. § 831, to make a per-diem charge for attendancp at each.

UNITED STATES v. KING.
Opinion of the Court.
A clerk of a Circuit Court is not entitled to charge for docketing and indorsing an order for the removal of a prisoner for trial in another
district.
Charges by a clerk for making separate reports of the amount of fees due
each juror and witness and filing separate orders for their payment are
disallowed, also charges for making separate recognizances for witnesses
in a criminal case, it not appearing that the witnesses -could not have
conveniently recognized together.
The clerk of a Circuit Court is not entitled to a fee for entering upon the
final record the proceedings before a committing magistrate, as, although
they may be properly filed, and a-fee charged for the filing, they form no
part of the record.

THis was a petition by H. H. King, whose Christian name
is not given, to recover certain fees as clerk of the Circuit
Court of the United States for the Southern District of
Georgia. To his petition was annexed a schedule of 23 items,
running through four years of service, which had been disallowed by the accounting officers of the Treasury, amounting
in the aggregate to $595.65. The case was tried upon an
agreed statement of facts, and a judgment rendered against
the United States for $586.15 and costs. See Erwwzm v.
United States, 37 Fed. Rep. 470. The United States appealed.
.Mr

Feix Brannsgan, and

Afr

Solicitor GeneraZ fdr

appellants.
Xr Charles C. Lancaster for appellee.
MR. Jusicio BiaowN delivered the opinion of the court.

The agreed statement of facts shows that petitioner was
appointed clerk on March 17, 1883, and has continued to hold
that office.until the present time, that his accounts were duly
presented and approved by the court, that the accounting
officers disallowed some of the items charged, that the claimant made up an account for these disallowances from the date
of his appointment, including therein similar items for services rendered, which had not been included m his accounts,

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

because of adverse rulings upon the legality of the charges.
This account was presented and sworn to in open court for
the purpose of bringing this suit. The several items, the
allowance of which is assigned by the government as error,
will be considered in their order.
1. Per-diem charges of $5 for services as clerk in selecting
,juries in connection with the jury commissioner are objected
to upon the ground that no compensation is provided by law
for such services.
Prior to 1879, juries to serve in the courts -of the United
States were, under Revised Statutes, § 800, designated by
ballot, lot or otherwise, according to the mode of forming
such juries practised in the several States, and the courts were
authorized to adopt rules conforming the method of designating and impanelling juries to the laws and usages of the State.
By the act of June 30, 1879, however, (21 Stat. 43, c. 52,) a
new system was inaugurated, and it was provided in'substance that the names of not less than 300 persons should
be placed in the jury box by the clerk of the court and a
commissioner to be appointed by the judge, who should be of
opposite politics to the clerk, and that the clerk and commissioner should each place one name in the box alternately,
without reference to party affiliations. The clerk was not by
this statute made a jury commissioner, but a new duty was
imposed upon him as clerk, and no provision was made for his
compensation. That Congress has the right to impose additional duties upon a public officer without additional compensation is not denied, but it is insisted that under the sundry
civil appropriation bill of March 3, 1885, .(23 Stat. 478, 511,
c. V60,) and under subsequent appropriation bills, a provision
for 1"
compensation for jury commissioners, five dollars per day,
not exceeding three days for any one term of court," should
be equitably held to include the clerk, who performs the same
duties as a jury commissioner. As the clerk is not a jury
commissioner eo nomne, it is difficult to see how he could be
paid out of an appropriation for jury commissioners, or how
these appropriation bills enlarge his rights, and unless he is
entitled to extra compensation a8 clerk for these duties, there

UNITED STATES v. KING.
Opimon of the Court.

would seem to be no appropriation from which he could be
paid. While the duties of the clerk are similar to those of
the commissioner, there is nothing in the language to indicate
that the clerk did not act as clerk in performing such duties,
or that he became ex offlo a jury commissioner.
The question of compensation for extra services has been
the subject of considerable discussion in this court and of some
legislation by Congress. The ordinary rule, in the absence of
legislation, is that, if the statute increases the duties of an
officer by the addition of other duties germane to his office,
he must perform them without extra compensation, but if he
is employed to render services in an independent employment,
not incidental to his official duties, he may recover for such
services. Mechem on Public Officers, secs. 862, 863. Acting
upon this principle, it was held by this court in 1833 that, in
an action brought by the United States against a public officer,
the court might allow by way of offset an equitable claim for
the disbursement of public moneys and other services rendered
to the government under orders of the head of a department,
though there were no act of .Congress providing for the case.
United States v. Maedantel, 7 Pet. 1, Unrted States v 1Riley,
7 Pet. 18, Untted States v. Fillebrown,7 Pet. 28. See also
Gratiot v. United States, 15 Pet. 336, 5. C. 4 How 80.
Apparently in consequence of these decisions, Congress, on
Mfarch 3, 1839, passed an act; (5 Stat. 339, 349, c. 82, § 3,)
which, as amended August 23, 18412, (5 Stat. 508, 510, c. 183,
§ 2,) provided "that no officer in any branch of the public
service, or.any other person whose salary, pay or emoluments
is or are fixed by law or regulations, shall receive any additional -pay, extra allowance or compensation, in any form
whatever, for the disbursement of public money, or for any
other service or duty whatsoever, unless the same shall be
authorized by law, and the appropriation therefor explicitly
set forth that it is for such additional pay, extra allowance or
compensation." This provision was subsequently carried into
the Revised Statutes, § 1765. Of this statute, it was said by
this court in Hoyt v United States, 10 How., 109, 141 "It
cuts up by the roots these claims by public officers for extra

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opmion of the Court.

compensation, on the ground of extra services. There is no
discretion left in any officer or tribunal to make the allowance,
unless it is authorized by some law of Congress. The prohibitionis general, and applies to all public officers, or quasipublic
officers, who have a fixed compensation." This language was
somewhat limited by Chief Justice Taney in Converse v Unted
States, 21 How 463,,471, wherein he says of tbese provisions
"They can by no fair interpretation be held to embrace an
employment which has no affinity or connection, either in its
character or by'law or usage, with the line of his official duty
and where the service to be performed is of a different character and for a different place, and the amount of compensation
regulated by law" An allowance was made by the court in
this case (three of its members dissenting) to a collector of
customs as commission for the purchase of supplies for the
light-house service throughout the United States, so far as
such purchases were made for light-houses outside of his district, and beyond the limits to which his duties extended. See
also United States v Brzndle, 110 U. S. 688.
Further construing this statute, it was held in - ted States
v. Shoemaker, 7TWall. 338, that a collector of customs was not
entitled to offset, in a suit against him by the United States,
compensation for disbursements made for building a customhouse and marine hospital at the port where he was collector.
See. also Hall v. Unted States, 91 U. S. 559, wherein items for
set-off for extra services and expenses were exclu'led, and
..Badeau v United States, 130 U. S. 439, in which a retired army
officer accepting pay under an appointment in the consular
servie was held to be precluded from receiving salary as an
officer in the army
In United States v. Saunders, 120 U. S. 126,. it was held
that this act had no application to two distinct places, offices
or employments, each with its own duties and compensation,
but both held by one person at the same time. In delivering
the opinion of the court, in this case, Mr. Justice Miller observed
that "the purpose of this legislation was to prevent a person
hO.ding an office or appointment, for which the law provides
a definite compensation by Way of salary or otherwise, which

UNITED STATES v. X]gG.
Opinion of the Court.

is intended to cover all the services which, as such officer, he
may be called upon to render, from receiving extra compensation, additional allowances or pay for other services which
may be required of him either by act of Congress or by order of
the head of his Department, or in any other mode, added to or
connected with the regular duties of the place which he holds."
We think that the construction given to this section in these
cases is conclusive against the claim of the clerk for per-diem
services in the drawing of juries, or for such services as are
not taxable; as orders, certificates or the like, under sec. 828,
fixing the compensation of clerks. These services are not
rendered in a distinct capacity as jury commissioner, but are
incidental and germane to his regular duties as clerk.
2. An item for attendance on the Circuit Court at Macon
by deputy for several days was disallowed by the Comptroller
upon the ground that the clerk had been allowed a per-diem
for his personal attendance upon the court at Savannah upon
the same day, the Comptroller holding that the clerk was
entitled to but one per-diem for any one day, although the
court might be in session at two gr more places, and the clerk
be represented at one of those p aces by a deputy By Revised Statutes, § 624, the Circuit Court is authorized to appoint deputies of the clerk upon his application, and provision.
is made by sections 626 and 839 for compensation to such
deputies to be paid by the clerk, and allowed in the same
manner as other expenses of his office are paid and allowed.
By section 96 the legal responsibility of the clerk for the acts
of his deputy is recognized. Under such circumstances, when
the law provides expressly for the appointment of a deputy,
and authorizes the clerk to pay his compensation as a part of
his office expenses, there can be no question that his acts as
such deputy should be recognized as the acts of the clerk himself, and that the clerk is entitled to like fees for the performance
of such acts. It would not be claimed that the clerk would
not be entitled to his fee for clerical services in entering orders,
etc., performed by his deputy No valid distinction can be
made in this particular between such charges and the ordinary
per-diem charges for attendance.

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opimon of the Court.

Among the fees provided for the clerk by section 828 are $5
a day-for his attendance upon the court "while actually in
session," with a qualification contained in section 831, that
" when the Circuit and District Courts sit at the same time,
no greater per-diem or other allowance shall be made to any
such officer than for an attendance on one court." As the
Circuit and District Courts are ordinarily held together at the
same time and place by the District Judge sitting both as
judge of the District and of the Circuit Court, and cases in
both courts are disposed of indifferently, and without reference
to the court in which they are pending, the obvious purpose of
this proviso was to limit the officials to a single per-diem for
attendance upon both courts. Where, however, the two courts
are held in different places, or, as in this case, in different divisions of the same judicial district, upon the same day, or
where a court is held by the regular District Judge at one
place, and a different, branch or division of the same court is
held at another place by the Circuit Judge or a District Judge
designated under the statute for that purpose, the- reason of
the rule does not apply In such a case a separate staff of
officers is necessary for each place, and equitably each is entitled to fees for attendance. We think the last clause of
section 831 should be limited to cases where the court sits not
only at the same time, but at the same place. It is unnecessary
to decide whether, when the district consists of two divisions,
and courts are held in both divisions by the same judge and
officers, they are one court or two. It is sufficient for the
purpose of this case to hold that the sessions are separate, and
that the clerk is entitled to charge for his own attendance at
one place and for'that of his deputy at another.
3. The eighth item relates to the case of one Clayton, who
was removed under Revisid Statutes, .sec. 1014, by order of
the judge to the Northern District of Georgia for trial. No
objection is made to the particulars of this item, except to the
charge for docketing and indexing, which cannot be allowed,
as the proceeding is not a "cause " within the meaning of
section 828, providing for docket fees. The application to the
judge is a summary one, and accompanied by a copy of the

UINITED STATES v. KING.
Opinion of the Court.
indictmmenb information or commitment of the commissioper
before whom he has been examined, and ordinarily no evidence is required except as to the identity of the accused,
when the judge issues a warrant for his removal, and no
papers are required to be filed with the clerk.
4. Items 10 and. 11, for entering orders approving the
accounts of marshals and other officers, are alloweol upon the
authority of United States v Jones, ante, 672, just decided.
5. Item 13 is for making reports of the amount of fees due
by the United States to jurors and witnesses for travelling and
attendance, and for filing orders of the court to pay the same.
The practice in the Southern District of Georgia, with regard
to the payment of fees due by the United States to witnesses
and jurors is stated by the court below to be as follows
(Erwzn v Unitel States, 37 Fed. Rep. VTQ, 483.) "When a
case has been disposed of and the witnesses are discharged
by the district attorney from further attendance, they report
to the clerk's office. The clerk then ascertains the exact
amount due them for attendance and mileage, by examination
of their subpcenas, questioning them as to the place from
which they have travelled, and comparing their statements
with a table of distances kept in his office for that purpose,
and the witness is sworn on a jurat drawn on his subpcena
ticket to the correctness of his claim. If any doubtful question
arises it is referred to the presiding judge for his decision.
The days attended, mileage and amounts due the respective
witnesses are then entered on a report, which is signed by the
clerk and submitted to the court for its approval." If the
court adjudge the report correct, he endorses upon it an order
for the payment of the witnesses and jurors. The only criticism to be made upon this practice is in requiring separate
orders to be made in each case.
The practice in most districts allows the witness.or juror to
appear before the clerk, make oath to his mileage and attendance, and receive a ticket or memorandum of the amount due
him, which he presents to the marshal, who takes his receipt
upon a large roll opened for the signature of all such jurors
and witnesses as are paid off during the term. One order is

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

then raade to pay all persons whose names are on the roll,
and the expense' of a separate order in each case is thereby
avoided. In the Southern District of Georgia the practice
seems. to have been for each witness or juror, as he was discharged, to appear separately or in small numbers before the
clerk, who administered the oath, for which he charged 10
cents, drew a report, for which he charged 30 cents, entered
an order on the minutes, 30 cents; filed copy of the same, 10
cents, made a copy of the same to accompany the marshal's
accounts, 20 cents, and annexed his certificate thereto, 15
cents. The clerk's charges thus aggregated $1.15 for the
payment ;of a witness, who~e fees may not have exceeded
$1.50, or of a single juror, whose fees may not have exceeded
$2. Any practice which puts the government to such an
expense is burdensome, vexatious and oppressive. In the
present case, a separate report seems to have been made, and
a separate order issued whenever a juror or witness was dicharged, or a small number were discharged together, and
the item contains charges for drawing 332 reports at 30 cents
each, and filing 358 orders at 10 cents each, the Comptroller
allowing the items for entering the orders and making copies
of the same for the marshal. In -view of the petty character
of these claims, if the clerk be competent, it would seem that
the practice usually pursued would sufficiently protect the
government, and would render unnecessary a scheme which
seems to have been skilfully devised for the multiplication of
fees. This charge must be disallowed.
6. Item 18 is for drawing three recognizances in a single
criminal case, and was disallowed by the Comptroller upon the
ground that one recognizance for all the witnesses would have
been sufficient. We agree with this conclusion, and the item
will, therefore, be disallowed, uiiless it be made to appear that
the witnesses could not conveniently have recognized together.
7. Item 17 is for entering upon the final record the proceedings before the committing magistrate, namely, affidavit,
warrant of arrest, marshal's return, and finding of the commissioner of probable cause of defendant's guilt, upon which
the information is founded, commitment to jail in default of

