UNITED STATES v. ERWIN.
Statemert of the Case.

bond, recogmizance where given, and justification of surety,
and waiver of homestead exemption, where it is waived, petition and order for subpenas on part of defendant at the expense of the government, commitment under sentence, and
marshaPs return $60.75.
While we held in the case of United Statesv. Van .Duzee, 140
U S. 169, 170, IF 1, that the clerk was entitled to a fee for
filing papers sent up by the commissioner, they evidently form
no part of the record in the Circuit Court and the clerk is not
entitled to a fee for entering them. The record proper begins
with the indictment or information and ends with the sentence
and commitment. The proceedings before a commissioner are
principally for the information of the district attorney In
United States v. Van -Dazee,140 U S. 169, 176, I 9, the clerk
was allowed to recover for so much of the record as included
the order of the commissioner binding the party to appear before the grand jury, on account of a rule of the court in that
case requiring this order to appear in the final record.
This disposes of all the questions raised in the brief of the
Attorney General, and the judgment of the court below will,
therefore, be
Reversed, and the case remanded,wita directions to redue
theyudgment r, conformity winth this o nion.

UNITED STATES v. ERWIN.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 1194. Submitted January 3,1893. -Decided

March 6, 1893.

A District Attorney is entitled to charge a per-diem for services before a
United States commissioner upon the same day that he is allowed a perdiem for attendance upon the court.

Tmis was a petition by the District Attorney of* the United
States for the Southern District of Georgia for services rendered

OCTOBER TERM, 1892.
Opinion of the Court.

in conducting examinations of persons charged with crime before United States commissioners upon the same days that
attendance upon the Circuit or District Courts was charged.
The court found as a conclusion of law that the plaintiff was
entitled to recover, and awarded judgment in his favor for
$215. The United States appealed.
_Mr Feix Brannsgan for appellants.
.Mr IVilliam If Dudley, TIr ,oua T Xieener and Xr
Richard 1?. .Mc. fahon for appellee.
MPt. JUsTIcE 13iBowx, after stating the case, delivered the
opinion of the court.

This case depends upon the single question whether a District Attorney is entitled to charge a per-diem for services
before a United States commissioner upon the same day that
he is allowed a per-diem for attendance upon the court.
By Rev. Stat. ยง 824, he is allowed $5 "for each. dayof his
necessary attendance in a court of the United States, on the
business of the United States, when the court is held at the
place of his abode,
and for his attendance when
the court is held elsewhere, $5 for each day of the term," and
also "for examination by a District Attorney before a judge
or commissioner, of persons .charged with crime, $5 a day for
the time necessarily employed." There is certainly no necessary incompatibility between these t)vo clauses. In neither
case is it required that he spend the entire day in attendance.
If his attendance before the court be necessary, he is. entitled
to his per-diem, though it may only be necessary to remain a
few minutes, and if he attend before a United States commissioner, and the case be disposed of without.requiring his presence the entire day, there is no reason why he is not as much
entitled to his fees as the commissioner. Un-ed State v
Jones, 134: U.. S.483. In neither event can he draw more
than $5, though he be engaged for the entire day, unless a
'ease be in some manner finally disposed of by the court when

