310

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Statement of the Case.

275 U. S.

the present case when the owner recovers upon a contract
for damage and delay. The Winkfield, [1902] P. 42.
Brewster v. Warner, 136 Mass. 57, 59.
Decree reversed.

GAMBINO ET AL. v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 226.

Argued October 12, 13, 1927.-Decided December 12, 1927.

1. The term "any officer of the law" in § 26, Title II of the National Prohibition Act, refers only to federal officers. P. 313.
2. If it appears from the evidence or from facts of which the Court
will take judicial notice, that, in making a search and seizure, state
officers were acting solely on behalf of the United States, evidence
thus obtained is inadmissible in a prosecution in a federal court if
the circumstances of the search and seizure were such as to render
it unlawful. P. 314.
3. Defendants were arrested by New York State troopers, their automobile (while occupied by one of them and therefore within the
protection accorded to his person) was searched without a warrant,
intoxicating liquor found therein was seized, and defendants and
liquor were immediately turned over to federal authorities for
prosecution under the National Prohibition Act. The troopers
acted without probable cause, and made the arrest, search and seizure solely on behalf of the United States. Held, that the admission
in evidence of the liquor in such prosecution violated the Fourth
and Fifth Amendments. P. 316.
4. A conviction in a federal court resting wholly upon evidence obtained through a violation of the defendants' constitutional rights
may be reversed although the point was not properly presented in
the courts below. P. 319.
16 F. (2d) 1016, reversed.

CERTIORARI, 274 U. S. 733, to a judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals, affirming a conviction in the District
Court for conspiracy to import and transport liquor in
violation of the National Prohibition Act.
Mr. Irving K. Baxter for petitioners.

GAMBINO v. UNITED STATES.
310

Argument for the United States.

Assistant Attorney General Willebrandt, with whom
Solicitor General Mitchell, and Mr. Norman J. Morrisson,
Attorney in the Department of Justice, were on the brief,
for the United States.
State officers, acting independently, are not agents of
the United States, and if they obtained evidence illegally,
it was nevertheless admissible in the prosecution in a
federal court.
It is urged that the state officers are made agents of the
United States for the purpose of enforcing the National
Prohibition Act and that, under a mandate from Congress,
it was their duty to enforce that Act. This claim is predicated upon § 26, Title II, of the National Prohibition Act
and particularly upon the words "any officer of the law."
U. S. v. Story, 294- Fed. 517, the first decision construing
this phase of § 26, concludes that Congress contemplated
the enforcement of the National Prohibition Act through
state officers as well as through federal officers. But the
Story case stands alone on this point. Though they have
considered it, other lower federal courts have refused to
follow that conclusion. U. S. v. Loomis, 297 Fed. 359; The
Ray of Block Island, 7 F. (2d) 189, affirmed, 11 F. (2d)
522; Dodge v. U. S., 272 U. S. 530.
All that was done by officers of the United States in
this case was done long after the seizure had been completed. Acceptance of the things seized was not an act
which deprived petitioners of any right under the Fourth
and Fifth Amendments. The Government might, with
equal propriety, have allowed the seized articles to remain with the state officers and later secured their production by a subpoena duces tecum. Neither course
would have encountered constitutional objection. Burdeau v. McDowell, 256 U. S. 465. Certainly the acceptance of this property by the government officer was not
a ratification of an unconstitutional act, for the arresting
officers, acting independently of federal agents, did not

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

have the capacity to commit an act violative of the Fourth
and Fifth Amendments. It being well established that
these Amendments do not apply to state officers, the act
of the government officers, if it be a ratification of anything, must be considered as an adoption of an act constitutionally unobjectionable. Robinson v. U. S., 292 Fed.
683.
Since there was no federal co6peration in the making
of this search and seizure, the rule announced in Byars v.
U. S., 273 U. S. 28, does not apply. It appears, therefore,
that this case falls within the rule, long regarded as settled, that the use by prosecuting officers of evidence illegally acquired by others than government officers does
not necessarily violate the Constitution of the United
States, nor affect the admissibility of such evidence in a
federal court. Weeks v. U. S., 232 U. S. 383; Adams v.
New York, 192 U. S. 585; Burdeau v. McDowell, 256
U. S. 465; McGuire v. U. S., 273 U. S. 95. See also, Twining v. N. J., 211 U. S. 78.
Under the circumstances of this case, absent any participation by federal officers, the District Court was under
no obligation to inquire into the legality of the acts of the
state officers. McGrew v. U. S., 281 Fed. 809; Coates v.
U. S., 290 Fed. 134; Schroeder v. U. S., 7 F. (2d) 60;
Elam v. U. S., 7 F. (2d) 887.
There was probable cause for the search.
MR. JusTIcE BRANDEIS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.

On August 1, 1924, Gambino and Lima were arrested
by two New York state troopers, near the Canadian border; their automobile (while occupied by Gambino and
therefore within the protection accorded to his person)
was searched without a warrant; and intoxicating liquor
found therein was seized. They, the liquor and other

GAMBINO v. UNITED STATES.
310

Opinion of the Court.

property taken were immediately turned over to a federal deputy collector of customs for prosecution in the
federal court for northern New York. There, the defendants were promptly indicted for conspiracy to import and
transport liquor in violation of the National Prohibition
Act. They moved seasonably, in advance of the trial and
again later, for the suppression of the liquor as evidence
and for its return, on the ground that the arrest, the
search and the seizure were without a warrant and without probable cause, in violation of the Fourth, Fifth and
Sixth Amendments of the Federal Constitution. The
motion was denied; the evidence was introduced at the
trial; the defendants were found guilty; and they were
sentenced to fine and imprisonment. The Court of Appeals affirmed the judgment. Neither court delivered an
opinion. This Court granted a writ of certiorari, 274
U. S.733.
The Government contends that the evidence was admissible, because there was probable cause, Carroll v. United
States, 267 U. S. 132, 153, and also because it was not
shown that the state troopers were, at the time of the
arrest, search and seizure, agents of the United States.
The defendants contend that there was not probable cause
and that the state troopers are to be deemed agents of the
United States, because § 26 of Title II of the National
Prohibition Act imposes the duty of arrest and seizure
where liquor is being illegally transported, not only upon
the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, his assistants and
inspectors, but also upon'" any officer of the law." We are
of opinion on the facts, which it is unnecessary to detail,
that there was not probable cause. We are also of opinion that the term "any officer of the law" used in § 26
refers only to federal officers, and that the troopers were
not, at the time of the arrest and seizure, agents of the
United States. Compare Dodge v. United States, 272
U. S.530, 531.

314

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

But the National Prohibition Act, October 28, 1919,
c. 85, Title II, § 2, 41 Stat. 305, 308, contemplated some
co~peration between the state and the federal governments
in the enforcement of the Act. Thus, § 2 made applicable
the provisions of § 1014 of the Revised Statutes whereby
state magistrates were authorized "agreeably to the usual
mode of process against offenders in such State, and at
the expense of the United States," to arrest and imprison,
or bail, offenders against any lAw of the United States for
trial before the federal court, and to require "recognizances of witnesses for their appearance to testify in the
case." Section 2 also gave specific authority to the state
magistrates to issue search warrants under the limitations
fixed by the federal statutes. Act of June 15, 1917, c. 30,
Title XI, 40 Stat. 217, 228. Evidence obtained through
wrongful search and seizure by state officers who are
co~perating with federal officials must be excluded. See
Flagg v. United States, 233 Fed. 481, 483, approved in
Silverthorne v. United States, 251 U. S. 385, 392. In
Byars v. United States, 273 U. S. 28, 34, evidence obtained by state officers through search and seizure made
without a warrant and without probable cause, but in the
presence of a federal official, was held inadmissible. The
question here is whether, although the state troopers were
not agents of the United States, their relation to the federal prosecution was such as to require the exclusion of
the evidence wrongfully obtained.
The Mullan-Gage Law-the state prohibition act-had
been repealed in 1923. Act of June 1, 1923, c. 871, 1923
N. Y. Laws, p. 1690. There is no suggestion that the
defendants were committing, at the time of the arrest,
search and seizure, any state offense; or that they had
done so in the past; or that the troopers believed that they
had. Unless the troopers were authorized to make the
arrest, search and seizure because they were aiding in the
enforcement of a law of the United States, their action

GAMBINO v. UNITED STATES.
310

Opinion of the Court.

would clearly have been wrongful even if they had had
positive knowledge that the defendants were 'violating the
federal law. No federal official was present at the search
hnd seizure; and the defendants made no attempt to establish that the particular search and seizure was made in
co6peration with federal officials. But facts of which we
take judicial notice, compare Tempel v. United States,
248 U. S. 121, 130, make it clear that the state troopers
believed that they were required by law to aid in enforcing the National Prohibition Act; and that they made
this arrest, search and seizure, in the performance of that
supposed duty, solely for the purpose of aiding in the
federal prosecution.
In the memorandum filed by the Governor approving
the Act which repealed the Mullan-Gage law, he declared
that all peace officers, thus including state troopers, are
required to aid in the enforcement of the federal law "with
as much force and as much vigor as they would enforce
any State law or local ordinance "; and that the repeal
of the Mullan-Gage law should make no difference in their
action, except that thereafter the peace officers must take
the offender to the federal court for prosecution.1 Aid so
given was accepted and acted on by the federal officials.2
1 Memorandum filed with Assembly Bill, Introductory No. 1614,
Printed No. 1817, p. 2. See also Messages of Jan. 2, 1924, N. Y. Leg.
Doe., 147th Sess., 1924, No. 3, p. 40, and Jan. 7, 1925, N. Y. Leg. Doe.,
148th "Sess. 1925, No. 3, pp. 39-40; Report of the Department of
State Police for 1924, N. Y. Leg. Doe., 148th Sess., 1925, No. 50, p. 13.
2 Immediately after the repeal of the Mullan-Gage law the Federal
Prohibition Director in New York City announced that he would call
upon the Superintendent of State Troopers, the sheriff of each county,
and every chief of police to aid in arresting violators of the National
Prohibition Act. In February, 1924, he attended a conference of state
and federal enforcement agencies at Albany, where he reiterated the
need for co-operation. That arrests for violation of the Volstead Act
in northern New York were commonly made by state troopers, during
1924, see testimony of federal prohibition agents in Hearings before
the Committee on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives,

316

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

It appears that one of the troopers who made the arrest
and seizure "here in question had been stationed at the
Canadian border for eighteen months prior thereto, the
greater part of that period being after the repeal of the
Mullan-Gage law. It was also shown that immediately
after the arrest and seizure, the defendants, their car and
the liquor were, after they had been taken to the committing magistrate, turned over to the federal officers. In
view of these facts, the statement, in the affidavit of one
of the troopers, that at the time of the arrest and search
" there were no federal officers present, and that we were
not working in conjunction with federal officers" must be
taken to mean merely that the specific arrest and search
was not directly participated in by any federal officer.
We are of opinion that the admission in evidence of the
liquor wrongfully seized violated rights of the defendants
guaranteed by the Fourth and Fifth Amendments. The
wrongful arrest, search and seizure were made solely on
behalf of the United States. The evidence so secured was
the foundation for the prosecution and supplied the only
evidence of guilt. It is true that the troopers were not
shown to have acted under the directions of the federal
officials in making the arrest and seizure. But the rights
guaranteed by the Fourth and Fifth Amendments may be
invaded as effectively by such co6peration, as by the
state officers' acting under direction of the federal officials.
Compare Silverthorne v. United States, 251 U. S. 385, 392.
The prosecution thereupon instituted by the federal au69th Cong., 2d Sess., on H. Res. 398 and H. Res. 415, pp. 37, 71, 79, 88,
100. For the part played by the New York City police in enforcement
of the National Prohibition Act long after the repeal of the MullanGage law, see testimony of the United States Attorney for the Southern District of New York, Hearings before the Subcommittee of the
Committee on the Judiciary, U. S. Senate, 69th Cong., 1st Sess., on
S. 33, S. 34, S. 591, S. 592, S. 3118, S. J. Res. 34, S. J. Res. 81, S. J.
Res. 85, S. 3823, S. 3411, and S. 3891, pp. 96, 99, 103, 107.

GAMBINO v. UNITED STATES.
310

Opinion of the Court.

thorities was, as conducted, in effect a ratification of the
arrest, search and seizure made by the troopers on behalf
of the United States. Whether the laws of the state actually imposed upon the troopers the duty of aiding the
federal officials in the enforcement of the National Prohibition Act we have no occasion to enquire.
The conclusion here reached is not in conflict with any
of the earlier decisions of this Court in which evidence
wrongfully secured by persons other than federal officers
has been held admissible in prosecutions for federal crimes.
For in none of those cases did it appear that the search and
seizure was made solely for the purpose of aiding the
United States in the enforcement of its laws. In Weeks
v. United States, 232 U. S. 383, the papers not ordered
returned had been obtained by a policeman who searched
the defendant's home after his arrest by another state
officer. Pp. 386, 398. It was not shown there that either
the arrest or the search was made solely for the purpose
of aiding in the prosecution of the federal offense. A law
of the State made criminal the acts with which the defendant was charged; ' and the seizure may have been
made in enforcing the state law. In Center v. United
States, 267 U. S. 575 (Per Curiam), the liquor admitted
in evidence had been taken by the state officials for immediate use as evidence in the state courts. Proceedings
against the defendant, the car and the liquor were instituted there four months before the prosecution in the
federal court was begun. In Dodge v. United States, 272
U. S.530, a libel to forfeit a vessel which had originally
been seized by a state officer, the question presented was
one of jurisdiction. The Court in sustaining the jurisdiction, although the original seizure had been made by the
state officer without authority, said, p. 532: "The exclusion of evidence obtained by an unlawful search and seiz3

Missouri Revised Statutes, 1909, §§ 4770, 4771.

318

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

ure stands on a different ground." In Burdeau v. McDowell, 256 U. S. 465, the books and papers admitted had
been taken by private detectives. The District Court
ordered the return "solely upon the ground that the Government should not use stolen property for any purpose
after demand made for its return." P. 472. This Court
based its reversal on the finding that "the record clearly
shows that no official of the Federal Government had anything to do with the wrongful seizure of the petitioner's
property, or any knowledge thereof until several months
after the property had been taken from him and was in
the possession of the Cities Service Company." P. 475.
There have been many instances in which the lower federal courts have admitted evidence obtained by state officers through wrongful search and seizure, but only three
reported cases have been found in which it could have
been seriously contended, in view of the law of the State
and the facts appearing in the opinion, that the search
and seizure had been made solely for the purpose of aiding
in the enforcement of the federal law. Schroederv. United
States, 7 F. (2d) 60; Greenbergv. United States, 7 F. (2d)
65; Katz v. United Stlates, 7 F. (2d) 67. These cases, like
the present one, were decisions of the Court of Appeals
for the Second Circuit, and -involved searches and seizures
made by officers of New York subsequent to the repeal of
the Mullan-Gage law.' An examination of the record in
the Schroeder case discloses that the sergeant of police who
made the search and seizure was not acting solely to
enforce the National Prohibition Act. He was a confidential investigator, charged with the task of detecting cor4 Compare United States v. Bush, 269 Fed. 455; In re Schuetze, 299
Fed. 827; United States v. Dossi, 12 F. (2d) 956; and United States v.
Costanzo, 13 F. (2d) 259--in all of which the District Court for
Western New York refused to permit the use of evidence obtained by
state officials, on a finding that they were acting in co6peration with
the federal authorities,

TEMCO CO. v. APCO CO.
310

Syllabus.

ruption and other derelictions of duty on the part of police
officers; the defendant was likewise a police officer; and
the sergeant, on making the search and seizure, informed
the defendant that he was acting in pursuance of his
regular duties. These facts were relied upon by the Government in both the trial and the appellate court. In the
Greenberg and Katz cases the situation was wholly different. The Court of Appeals, failing to note the difference,
treated its decision in the Schroeder case as controlling,
and did not give adequate consideration to the peculiar
relation borne in New York, then as now, by state officers
to federal prohibition enforcement, although the point
was made by the defendant and a decision thereon was
urgently sought by the United States Attorney.
The record in the case at bar does not show that the
relation between the state troopers and the federal agencies for prohibition enforcement was called by counsel to
the attention of the court. But as the conviction of these
defendants rests wholly upon evidence obtained by invasion of their constitutional rights, we are of opinion that
the judgment should be reversed and the case remanded
for further proceedings. Compare Wiborg v. United
States, 163 U. S. 632, 658-660; Clyatt v. United States,
197 U. S. 207, 221-222.
Reversed.
TEMCO ELECTRIC MOTOR COMPANY v. APCO
MANUFACTURING COMPANY.
CERTIORARI

TO THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
FIFTH

No. 37.

THE

CIRCUIT.

Argued October 18, 1927.-Decided January 3, 1928.

1. Large public demand for, and commercial success of, a patented
article is evidence of invention. P. 324.
2. The specifications and drawings of a patent may be referred to a's
an aid in construing a claim. P. 330.

