OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Counsel for Parties.

275 U. S.

BOTHWELL ET AL. v. BUCKBEE, MEARS COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF MINNESOTA.

No. 169. Submitted October 3, 1927.-Decided December 5, 1927.
1. Since a contract of insurance, although made with a corporation
having its office in a State other than that in which the insured
resides and in which the interest insured is located, is not interstate
commerce, a State may prohibit a foreign insurance company from
doing business within its borders without first obtaining a license.
P. 276.
2. While a State may not forbid a resident from making a contract
with a foreign insurance company outside the State, it may forbid
the solicitation of such contract within the State by a company
which has not complied with its laws, and may refuse the aid of its
courts in enforcing a contract made in another State but growing
out of such solicitation. P. 276.
3. A State may refuse to enforce a contract made by one of its residents in another State with a foreign insurance company, where the
contract contemplates the performance by the company within the
State of acts forbidden by its laws. P. 278.
4. On writ of error or certiorari to a State court, this court will not
take judicial notice of statutes of another State not proved or judicially noticed in the court below. P. 279.
169 Minn. 516, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 273 U. S. 689, to a judgment of the Supreme
Court of Minnesota affirming dismissal of an action
brought by the receivers of a Maryland insurance company to recover the amount of an assessment made on
the respondents under a policy for strike insurance. See
also 166 Minn: 285.

Messrs. Morton Barrows, George P. Metcalf, and Wal-

ter L. Clark were on the brief for petitioners.
Messrs. William H.

Oppenheimer and Montreville J.

Brown were on the brief for respondent.

BOTHWELL v. BUCKBEE, MEARS CO.
274

MR.

275

Opinion of the Court,
JUSTICE BRANDEIS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This action was brought in a court of Minnesota. The
plaintiffs below, petitioners here, are the receivers of the
Employers' Mutual Insurance and Service Company, a
Maryland corporation. The defendant, Buckbee, Mears
Co., a Minnesota corporation, is a printing concern with
its plant and only place of business in that State. The
action is brought for the amount of an assessment made
upon the insured pursuant to a policy for "strike insurance" issued by the Company. The only defense relied
upon below, or open here, is that the Company (and hence
its receivers) cannot maintain a suit in a court of Minnesota, because it did not, before writing the policy, comply
with the provisions of the Minnesota law relating to
foreign insurance companies doing business within the
State. After proceedings which it is unnecessary to detail, 166 Minn. 285, the trial court sustained that defense.
Compare Seamans v. Christian Bros. Mill Co., 66 Minn.
205. Its judgment was affirmed by the highest court of
the State. 169 Minn. 516. This Court granted a writ of
certiorari. 273 U. S. 689.
The statutes of Minnesota provide that a foreign insurance company shall not do business within the State
unless it secures a license so to do; and that to this end it
must file a copy of its charter and by-laws and a statement
showing its financial condition; must appoint the Insurance Commissioner its attorney in fact upon whom proofs
of loss and process in'any action may be served; and
must make a deposit of securities (or its equivalent) for
the protection of Minnesota policy holders, G. S. 1923,
§§ 3313, 3318, 3319, 3711, 3713, 3716. The statutes further require that all persons engaged in the solicitation of
applications of insurance shall be licensed; and they declare specifically that it shall be unlawful for any person,

276'

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U.S.

firm or corporation to solicit or make or aid in the solicit-

ing or making of any contract of insurance not authorized
by the laws of the State, and that any person, firm or
corporation not complying with the requirements as to the
licensing of agents and solicitors shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, G. S. 1923, §§ 3314, 3348, 3349, 3366.
It is stipulated that the Company did not comply with
the requirements of the Minnesota law; and that the
contract was effected by the Company's sending a representative into the State who solicited the insurance there,
by the defendant's filling out in Minnesota one of the
blank forms for application distributed by the Company's
agent there, and by the defendant's then mailing it, together with a check for the first premium, to the Company's office in Maryland, upon receipt of which the
policy was signed by the Company in Maryland and
mailed to the defendant.
The receivers rely upon Allgeyer v. Louisiana,165 U. S.
578, and St. Louis Cotton Compress Co. v. Arkansas, 260
U. S. 346. Their contention is that, since the contract
was made in Maryland, it was not subject- to the prohibitions of the Minnesota law; that the contract was
valid where made; and that, hence, Minnesota may not
refuse .the aid of its courts for enforcing it. Those cases
are not applicable. They hold that a State may not
prohibit either a citizen or a resident from making a
contract-in other words, doing an act-in another State.
The defense here rests upon a wholly different ground.
It is that the making of the contract involved, and the
performance of the contract required, the doing in Minnesota of acts which its laws prohibited; and that the contract contemplated the Company's doing there still other
forbidden acts.
A contract of insurance, although made with a corporation having its office in a State other than that in which
the insured resides and in which the interest insured is

BOTHWELL v. BUCKBEE, MEARS CO.
274

277

Opinion of the Court.

located, is not interstate commerce. New York Life Insurance Co. v. Deer Lodge County, 231 U. S. 495; National Union Fire Insurance Co. v. Wanberg, 260 U. S.
71, 75. Hence, Minnesota had the power to prohibit the
Employers' Mutual Company from doing business within
the State without first complying with the prescribed
conditions; and could refuse the aid of its courts in enforcing a contract which involved violation of its laws,
ChattanoogaBuilding & Loan Assoc. v. Denson, 189 U. S.
408; Interstate Amusement Co. v. Albert, 239 U. S. 560.
See also Munday v. Wisconsin Trust Co., 252 U. S. 499.
The parties had, under the Allgeyer and Cotton Compress
cases, the constitutional right to make in Maryland a
contract of insurance despite a prohibition of the Minnesota law. But the Company, a foreign corporation, had
no constitutional right to solicit the insurance in Minnesota by means of an agent present within that State. For
the act of solicitation there the State might have punished the agent; and also the Company as principal.
Hooper v. California,155 U. S. 648; Nutting v. Massachusetts, 183 U. S. 533. Compare Commonwealth v. Nutting,
175 Mass. 154. As the contract was not a later independent act, but grew immediately out of the illegal solicitation, and was a. part of the same transaction, being inseparably tied to it by the use of the application blank
illegally distributed, the. contract was tainted with the
illegality. Armstrong v. Toler, 11 Wheat. 258. Because
of such taint the State, under rules of general application,
would have had the right to refuse to enforce it, although
made in Maryland, even if it had been wholly unobjectionable in its provisions. Compare Delamater v. South
Dakota, 205 U. S. 93, 97-103; American Fire Insurance
Co. v. King Lumber Co., 250 U. S. 2, 11-12.
But the contract was also in its terms obnoxious to the
Minnesota law. It required the Company to perform, in
Minnesota, acts which it was prohibited from doing there.

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

The Company agreed to defend, on behalf of the insured,
any suits or other legal proceedings brought by striking
employees against the insured to enforce claims arising
out of any strike, and to pay any expenses incurred by the
Company in so doing. This covenant necessarily involved performance in Minnesota, as suits against the
insured would be brought in that State, among other reasons, because it was a Minnesota corporation and had no
place of business elsewhere. The Company also covenanted to indemnify the insured for "direct loss of average daily net profits and fixed charges" due to strikes.
The contract did not specify the place where payment
for the loss should be made, so that under the common
rule the insurer would be required to make the payment
in Minnesota, the domicile of the insured. Pennsylvania
Mutual Fire Insurance Co. v. Meyer, 197 U. S. 407, 416.
Besides these acts which the Company bound itself to
perform in Minnesota, the contract reserved to it the
right to do, in Minnesota, and the Company contemplated doing there, others acts forbidden by its laws,
namely, the right to inspect the plant and the books of
account and papers of the business; and the right to interrogate persons connected with it. Moreover, the contract clearly contemplates that not only these examinations, but the appraisals and other acts provided to be
done by the Company in the course of the adjustment of
losses, shall be done in Minnesota. All these things were
activities of the insurance business which the Company
was prohibited by valid statutes from doing within the
State. Pennsylvania Lumbermen's Mutual Fire Insurance Co. v. Meyer, supra, pp. 414-5. Compare Commercial Mutual Accident Co. v. Davis, 213 U. S. 245, 256.
Under rules of law generally applicable a State may refuse
to enforce a contract which provides for doing within it
an act prohibited by its laws. Compare The Kensington,
183 U. S. 263, 269; Bond v. flume, 243 U. S. 15, 21; Union

BOTHWELL v. BUCKBEE, MEARS CO.
274

271)

Opinion of the Court.

Trust Co. v. Grosman, 245 U. S. 412, 416; Grell v. Levy,

16 C. B. (N. S.) 73.
It is suggested that under a Maryland statute the petitioners are not mere equity receivers but quasi-assignees,
and that this places them on a different footing from that
which the insurance company would have occupied if the

suit had been brought by it.

In support of this conten-

tion, the full faith and credit clause of the Constitution

and cases such as Converse v. Hamilton, 224 U. S. 243,
are invoked.

But the Maryland statute was not set up

in the state courts, and as they did not take judicial notice
of it, it will not be noticed here. Hanley v. Donoghue,
116 U. S. 1; Gasquet v. Lapeyre, 242 U. S. 367, 371. For
this and other reasons we have no occasion to enquire
into its effect.
Affirmed.

NEW MEXICO v. TEXAS.
IN EQUITY.

No. 2, Original, Argued December 2, 1924-Decided December 5,
1927.
1. A copy of memoranda and field notes of a survey of part of the
boundary between Mexico and Texas, made in 1852 by a Mexican
engineer by order of the Mexican Member of the Joint Boundary
Commission, under the Treaty of Guadalupe-Hidalgo, was admissible in evidence upon authentication by the Mexican Boundary
Commissioner having custody of the original. P. 296.
2. A motion, by the party who produced it, to strike out an authenticated copy, accompanied by evidence adduced to prove that the
party had been mistaken in believing that there was any original
in the place from which the authentication was made, comes too
late, when deferred until the day when the taking of testimony is
closed by mutual agreement, two years after the copy was introduced by the opposite party and treated by both sides as evidence
in the case. P. 297.
3. The New Mexico-Texas boundary, in the area involved in this suit,
is the middle of the main channel of th3 Rio Grande, as that river

