OCTOBER TERM, 192.
Statement of the Case.

275 U. S.

In the first, we distinctly stated that "in computing the
damages recoverable for the deprivation of future benefits, the principle of limiting the recovery to compensation requires that adequate allowance be made, according
to circumstances, for the earning power of money; in
short, that when future payments or other pecuniary
benefits are to be anticipated, the verdict should be made
upon the basis of their present value only." The interpretation approved by us has become an integral part of
the statute. It should be accepted and followed.
The judgment below is reversed; and the cause will be
remanded to the Court of Civil Appeals, Third Supreme
Judicial District, State of Texas, for further proceedings
not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
NORTHWESTERN MUTUAL LIFE INSURANCE
COMPANY v. WISCONSIN.
SAME v. SAME.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF WISCONSIN.

Nos. 75, 76. Argued October 27, 1927.-Decided November 21, 1927.
A state tax on domestic insurance companies, called an annual license
fee, which consists of three per cent. annually of the gross income
of the corporation, save rents from land otherwise taxed and premiums, is void pro tanto where the income is in part interest from
United States bonds. P. 140.
189 Wis. 103, 114 reversed.
ERROR to the judgments of the Supreme Court of Wisconsin, in two cases, sustaining taxes on the gross income
of the Insurance Company. The Company sued in the
state circuit court to recover portions of the taxes paid,
upon the ground that, pro tanto, the tax fell on-the income
from United States bonds. Judgments of the circuit

NORTHWESTERN INS. CO. v. WISCONSIN. 137
136

Argument for Wisconsin.

court dismissing the complaints on demurrer were affirmed
by the court below.
Messrs. Sam T. Swansen and George Lines for plaintiff
inerror.
Mr. Franklin E. Bump, Assistant Attorney General of
Wisconsin, with whom Mr. John W. Reynolds, Attorney
General, was on the brief, for the State of Wisconsin.
The license fee is a privilege or franchise tax, and not a
tax on property or income from property. Northwestern
Ins. Co. v. State, 163 Wis. 484; Northwestern Ins. Co. v.
Wisconsin, 247 U. S. 132. It clearly is not intended as a
tax on United States bonds or anything else not taxable
by the State.
The inducements or considerations for the privilege tax
are local, special, privileges clearly within the power of
the State to grant or withhold altogether, and, when
granted, are clearly within the jurisdiction of the State to
tax as such, the tax being lawfully measured by reference
to property, business, or income of the corporation which,
itself, is beyond the power of the State to tax. Northwestern Ins. Co. v. Wisconsin, supra; Home Ins. Co. v.
New York, 134 U. S. 594; Flint v. Stone Co., 220 U. S.
107; Gillespie v. Oklahoma, 257 U. S. 501; U. S. Grain
Corp. v. Phillips, 261 U. S. 106; Baltic Min. Co. v. Mass.,
231 U. S. 68; Adams Exp. Co. v. Ohio, 165 ,U. S. 194;
Cleve. &c. Ry. v. Backus, 154 U. S. 438; Delaware R. R.
Tax Case, 18 Wall. 206; Hamilton Co. v. Mass., 6 Wall.
632; State Tax on Ry. Receipts, 15 Wall. 284; Kansas
City R. R. v. Botkin, 240 U. S. 227; Maine v. Gr. Trunk
Ry., 142 U. S. 217; Horn Co. v. New York, 143 U. S. 305;
Kan. City &c. R. R. v. Stiles, 242 U. S. 111; Provident
Inst. v. Massachusetts,6 Wall. 611; Society for Savings v.
Coite, 6 Wall. 594; Van Allen v. Assessors, 3 Wall. 573;
Securities Bank v. District,279 Fed. 185.

138

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JUSTICE

275 U. S.

MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
These two causes, originally brought in the Circuit
Court of Dane County, present the same question. The
plaintiff company, a corporation under the laws of Wisconsin, has long carried on therein the business of insuring lives. It seeks to recover excess taxes exacted by the
State for the five years, 1918-1923. The courts below
held that the exaction was proper under ยง 76.34, Wisconsin Statutes, 1923 (ยง 1211-35, Stat. 1919; ยง 51.32, Stat.
1917). And they definitely denied the contention that
so construed and applied the statute conflicted with the
Constitution or laws of -the United States.
Section 76.34 provides"Life insurance companies to pay annual license.
Every company, corporation or association transacting
the business of life insurance within this state, excepting
only such fraternal societies as have lodge organizations
and insure the lives of their own members, and no others,
shall,, on or before the first day of March, in each year,
pay into the state treasury as an annual license fee for
transacting such business the amounts following:
"(1) Domestic Companies; Three per cent of Gross Income. If such company, corporation or association is
organized under the laws of this state, three per centum
of its gross income from all sources for the year ending
December thirty-first, next prior to said first day of March
excepting therefrom income from rents of real estate upon
which said company, corporation or association has paid
the taxes assessed thereon, and excepting also premiums
collected on policies of insurance and contracts for
annuities.
"(3) Power Granted by License; License Fee in Lieu
of Other Taxes. Such license, when granted shall author-

NORTHWESTERN INS. CO. v. WISCONSIN. 139
136

Opinion of the Court.

ize the company, corporation or association to whom it is
issued to transact business until the first day of March
of the ensuing year, unless sooner revoked or forfeited.
The payment of such license fee shall be in lieu of all
taxes for any purpose authorized by the laws of this state,
except taxes on such real estate as may be owned by such
company, corporation or association."
In annual reports the Company disclosed all receipts
derived from interest on United States bonds and claimed
they were exempt from taxation under the Constitution
and laws of the United States. The revenue officers
acted upon another view, and both courts below have
held that they rightly disregarded the source of the receipts and properly assessed sums reckoned upon the
Company's entire gross income.
Counsel for the State maintain that the effect of ยง 76.34
is to impose upon domestic insurance companies a privilege or franchise tax, and not one on property or income;
that no charge is laid upon bonds of the United States,
but the fee exacted is for granted privileges, including
exemption from personal property taxation and right to
do business; that the State may require domestic corporations to pay privilege, franchise or license taxes measured
by gross income, although partly derived from United
States bonds; and that in no proper sense can the' challenged tax be regarded as one directly imposed upon gross
income.

They also suggest that this Court has interpreted the
statute and pointed out its real nature. Northwestern
Mutual Life Ins. Co. v. State of Wisconsin, 247 U. S. 132,

137. Speaking there of this same statute we did declare:
"The tax in question is, therefore, not only one for the
privilege of doing life insurance business within the State,
but is in effect a commutation tax, levied by the State in
place of all other taxation upon the personal property of

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

the company in the State of Wisconsin." But no question was then raised concerning taxation of income derived
from United States bonds. The point now presented was
not involved.
It cannot be denied (and denial is not attempted) that
bonds of the United States are beyond the taxing power
of the states. Home Savings Bank v. City of Des Moines,
205 U. S: 503, 509; Farmers & Mechanics Bank v. Minnesota, 232 U. S.516; and FirstNational Bank v. Anderson, 269 U. S. 341, 347. Certainly since Gillespie v.
Oklahoma, 257 U. S.501, 505, it has been the settled doctrine here that where the principal is absolutely immune,
no valid tax can be laid upon income arising therefrom.
To tax this would amount practically to laying a burden
on the exempted principal. Accordingly, if the challenged Act, whatever called, really imposes a direct charge
upon interest derived from United States bonds, it is pro
taitto void.
The fundamental question, often presented in cases
similar to these, is whether by the true construction of
the statute the assessment must be regarded as a tax upon
property or one on privileges or franchise of the corporation. Society for Savings v. Coite, 6 Wall. 594; Home
Insurance Co. v. New York, 134 U. S.594.
Section 76.34 undertakes to impose a charge not measured by dividends paid, as in Home Insurance Co. v. New
York, 134 U. S. 594, nor by net income, as in Flint v.
Stone Tracy Co., 220 U. S. 107; and those cases are not
controlling. The distinction between an imposition the
amount of which depends upon dividends or net receipts
and one measured by gross returns is clear. U. S. Glue
Co. v. Town of Oak Creek, 247 U. S.321, 328, and earlier
opinions there cited.
It is important to observe that although a state statute
may properly impose a charge which materially affects in-

NORTHWESTERN INS. CO. v. WISCONSIN.
136

141

Opinion of the Court.

terstate commerce, without so unreasonably burdening it
as to become a regulation within the :meaning of the
Constitution, no state can lay any charge on bonds of the
United States. This distinction was adverted to in
Gillespie v. Oklahoma, 257 U. S. 501, 505, and the principle found application in Choctaw & Gulf R. R. Co. v.
Harrison,235 U. S. 292, and Indian Territory Ill. Oil Co.
v. Oklahoma, 240 U. S. 522. The power to tax property
necessary to the conduct of interstate commerce has been
often upheld; and without doubt the states by apt enactments may tax the ordinary property, franchises or business of their own corporations.
A taxing act which requires payment of a certain percentage of the gross earnings of an interstate carrier but
which practically imposes no more than the ordinary
charge upon local property may be sustained. U. S. Express Co. v. Minnesota, 223 U. S. 335, Cudahy Packing Co.
v. Minnesota, 246 U. S. 450. But if the enactment goes
further and burdens property beyond the state, as in
Union Tank Line Co. v. Wright, 249 U. S. 275, or amounts
to a direct imposition upon interstate commerce itself, as
in Galveston Ry. Co. v. Texas, 210 U. S. 217, or lays an
impost upon exports, as in Crew Levick Co. v. Pennsylvania, 245 U. S. 292, it violates the Federal Constitution.
Here the statute undertook to impose a charge of 3 per
cent. upon every dollar of interest received by the Company from United States bonds. So much, in any event,
the State took from these very receipts. This amounts,
we think, to an imposition upon the bonds themselves and
goes beyond the power of the State.
The judgment below is reversed; and the cause will be
remanded to the Supreme Court of the State of Wisconsin
for further proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.

