164

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Statement of the Case.

275 U. S.

an action brought immediately. If it had been so
brought, it would have been for the benefit solely of the
mother; and no other action would have lain. The failure to bring the action in the mother's lifetime did not
result in creating a new cause of action after her death
for the benefit of the sister.
Reversed.
CITY OF HAMMOND v. SCHAPPI BUS LINE, INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 67. Argued October 25, 26, 1927.-Decided November 21, 1927.
1. In a suit in the federal courts to enjoin enforcement of a city
ordinance, its validity under the Federal Constitution is not properly
to be considered if it be found void under the State law; and
questions involving the application of that law should be discussed
and determined by the two courts below preliminary to their consideration here. P. 169.
2. Before novel and important questions of constitutional law in a
suit in the lower federal courts are passed upon by this Court, the
facts essential to their decision should be found by those courts
upon adequate evidence; this Court will not attempt to find the
facts from an inadequate record consisting of pleadings and affidavits used on an application for a temporary injunction. P. 171.
3. When a suit to enjoin enforcement of a city ordinance has gone no
farther in the District Court than an order overruling an application for a preliminary injunction based on pleadings and affidavits,
and reaches the Circuit Court of Appeals by appeal from that
order, it is not ripe for final disposition by a decree of the latter
court directing a permanent injunction. P. 172.
4. Under the circumstances, without costs to either party, the decree
of the Circuit Court of Appeals directing a permanent injunction
is modified by directing an injunction pending the suit, and by
remanding the cause to the District Court for proceedings on final
hearing with liberty to allow amendment of pleadings. P. 172.
11 F. (2d) 940, modified.
CERTIORARI, 273 U. S. 675, to a decree of the Circuit
Court of Appeals rendered on appeal from an order of the

HAMMOND v. SCHAPPI BUS LINE.
164

165

Opinion of the Court.

District Court overruling an application for an interlocutory injunction in a suit to restrain the City from
enforcing against the petitioner an ordinance concerning
the operation of motor busses. The Circuit Court of
Appeals reversed the District Court and directed a decree
granting the injunction, without specifying its scope.
Compare City of Hammond v. Farina Bus Line, post,
p. 173.
Mr. C. B. Tinkham, with whom Messrs. Louis T. Michener and Gerald Gillett were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. William J. Whinery for respondent.
MR. JU TICE BRANDEIS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This suit, which was commenced in the federal court
for Indiana in July, 1925, is here on certiorari to the
Circuit Court of Appeals. 273 U. S. 675. Schappi Bus
Line, Incorporated, an Illinois corporation, seeks to enjoin
the City of Hammond, Indiana, from enforcing its ordinance No. 1945 concerning the operation of motor busses,
adopted May 23, 1925.1 Section 1 prohibits the operation
1

No. 1945.

An Ordinance Regulating and Routing Certain Vehicles for Hire and
Prohibiting Their Use of Certain Streets Within the City of
Hammond.
Section 1. Be It Ordained by the Common Council of the City of
Hammond, Indiana, that in order to promote public safety and order
and to diminish the congestion of vehicular travel within said City,
from and after the taking effect of this Ordinance, it shall be unlawful
for any person, firm, or corporation owning or operating any motor
vehicle engaged in transporting passengers for hire, to move or run
such vehicle on, upon, or over any of the following parts of streets
within said City of Hammond, to-wit:
On -Hohman Street from Russell Street to Michigan Avenue;
On State Street from Morton Court to Calumet Avenue;

166

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
275 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

of any busses (with an exception to be noted) on certain
streets which lead into and through the business district.
Section 2 prohibits any busses (with the same exception)
from stopping anywhere on any street in the City, either
On Sibley Street from the easterly line of the right-of-way of the
Chicago, Indianapolis & Louisville Railway Company where the same
crosses Sibley Street westerly to Morton Court;
On Fayette Street from Hohman Street to Oakley Avenue.
Section 2. From and after the taking effect of this Ordinance, it
shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation, owning or
operating any motor vehicle carrying passengers for hire, to stop
such vehicle for the purpose of receiving or discharging passengers
upon any street, alley, or other public place within said City; provided, that the Board of Public Works may, for any period not
exceeding six months or successions thereof, permit such operation
on any or all of the following designated parts of streets: Columbia
Avenue between the South city limits and the right-of-way of the
Michigan Central Railroad where the same crosses said Columbia
Avenue; Sibley Street from Columbia Avenue to the Easterly line of
the right-of-way of the Chicago, Indianapolis & Louisville Railway
Company; State Line Street from its Southerly terminus to its Northerly terminus at or near the right-of-way of said Michigan Central
Railroad aforesaid; Rimbach Avenue from State Line Street to Ann
Street; Ann Street from Rimbach Avenue to Russell Street; Russell
Street from Ann Street to State Line Street, and for vehicles engaged
strictly in interstate commerce any street or other public place North
of 122nd Street and East of Calumet Avenue.
Section 3. Whoever violates any of the provisions of Sections 1 and
2 of this Ordinance shall, upon conviction, be fined in any sum not
exceeding Fifty ($50.00) Dollars for each and every offense, but
nothing in this Ordinance shall be construed to impair the obligation
of any contract to which the City is a party under which such motor
vehicles are now operated for hire within said City. Nothing herein
shall apply to taxicabs.
Section 4. This Ordinance shall supplement such ordinances as are
now in force, and repeal only so much of them or any part thereof
as may be in direct conflict herewith.
GEO. J.

Attest:

WOLF,

President.

ARNOLD H. KUNERT,

City Clerk.

HAMMOND v. SCHAPPI BUS LINE.
164

Opinion of the Court.

to load or to discharge passengers, but reserves to the
Board of Public Works authority to grant, from time to
time, permission, for periods not exceeding six months, to
stop on portions of a few designated streets.
For some time prior to the adoption of the ordinance,
Schappi, Incorporated, had owned and operated a line of
motor busses between Chicago and Hammond; another
between Calumet City, Illinois, and Hammond; and one
from Calumet City through Hammond to East Chicago,
Indiana. The business is chiefly interstate; and on at
least one of the lines is wholly interstate. The bill
charges that for reasons there set forth the ordinance is
void; and alleges that, if enforced, it will compel abandonment of all existing bus lines operated by the plaintiff.
The case was heard upon an application for an interlocutory injunction. The District Court denied it without
making any finding of fact and without an opinion or
other statement of the reasons for its action. The decree
was reversed by the Court of Appeals, which remanded
the case "with directions to enter a decree granting the
injunction," without specifying its scope. 11 F. (2d) 940.
That court, also, made no finding on any controverted
fact, save that it stated in its opinion " that the record
does not show any valid reason for the passage of such an
ordinance because of congestion in the streets. The record shows that there was a parking privilege on both sides
of the streets in question of not less than an hour's limit,
very generally availed of."
The City of Hammond has an area of about 35 square
miles; much of it sparsely settled. It has 250 miles of
streets. Its population is 60,000. The terminal of the
three Schappi lines is on private property in the heart
of the business district. Schappi claims that the ordinance not only denies access to its existing terminal, but
practically prevents its busses from coming within miles
of the business section. The City concedes that the ordi-

168

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U.S.

nance prohibits the continued operation of Schappi busses
over their existing routes. It urges that, despite the prohibition of ยง 1 of the ordinance, Schappi busses might use
other streets which would bring them within a short distance of the business district-and that it might, under
ยง 2, secure permits to stop for loading and unloading
which would adequately serve its purposes.
The City asserts that the purpose of the ordinance is
to prevent congestion of traffic and to promote safety.
Schappi insists that there is no congestion, even in the
business district, except such as results, at times, from the
passing of railroad trains at grade and from the allowance
of unreasonable parking privileges; that the prohibition
by ยง 2 of stopping to load or unload passengers is obviously arbitrary; and that the real purpose of the ordinance
is disclosed by ยง 3 which provides that it shall not "be
construed to impair the obligation of any contract to
which the City is a party under which motor vehicles are
now operated for hire within the City." It appears that,
under a contract made by the City in 1924, the Calumet
Motor Coach Company is authorized, for a period of
twenty-five years, to run its coaches on any street of the
City and to stop on any street in order to load or discharge passengers. Schappi asserts that the only purpose of the City in adopting the ordinance was to protect
the Calumet Company from the competition of other bus
lines. That company has, among other lines, one between Chicago and the business district of Hammond.
The issues of law are as serious and as numerous as
those of fact. Schappi contends that the City lacked
power to adopt any ordinance dealing with the subject,
because by Act of March 4, 1925, Indiana General Assembly,' pp. 138-142, and Act of March 14, 1925, Indiana
General Assembly, pp. 570-607, the power to authorize
use of the highways by motor busses was vested in the

HAMMOND v. SCHAPPI BUS LINE.
164

169

Opinion of the Court.

Public Service Commission and Schappi had obtained
from it certificates of public convenience and necessity
specifically authorizing the use of the existing routes.
Schappi contends further that, even if the City possessed
the power to deal with the general subject, this ordinance
is void, under other state statutes and under the constitution of the State, because it is unreasonable, arbitrary,
and grossly discriminatory. And Schappi claims that,
regardless of any power which state statutes may have
purported to confer upon the City, the ordinance is void
under the Commerce Clause, because all of its busses are
operated in interstate commerce and the business is chiefly
interstate, although some of the busses carry some intrastate passengers. Rights under the Fourteenth Amendment also were asserted.
The opinion of the Court of Appeals states that the
ordinance must be sustained, if at all, as a police regulation; that, as such, it was clearly discriminatory; and that
it must be held void on that ground. Whether the invalidity results from the provisions of a state statute, or
from the constitution of the State, or from the Fourteenth Amendment is not stated. The court did not discuss the statutory powers of the City; declined to consider
the effect of the recent state legislation particularly relied
upon by the plaintiff; and did not even mention claims
urged under the Commerce Clause. If, as Schappi contends, the ordinance is void under the state law, there is
no occasion to consider whether it violates the Federal
Constitution and there could be no propriety in doing so.
Whether it is void under the law of Indiana involves questions upon which this Court should not be called upon to
pass without the aid which discussion by members of the
lower courts familiar with the local law would afford.
On the other hand, if it should become necessary to consider Schappi's rights under the Commerce Clause, it is

170

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

not fitting that these should be passed upon by this Court
upon the present record and at this stage of the proceedings. The general principles governing the rights of motor vehicles to use the highways in interstate commerce,
Michigan.Public Utilities Commission v. Duke, 266 U. S.
570; Buck v. Kuykendall, 267 U. S.307; George W. Bush
& Sons Co. v. Maloy, 267 U. S. 317; the power of the State
to regulate their use, Kane v. New Jersey, 242 U. S. 160;
Interstate Busses Corporationv. Holyoke Street Ry. Co.,
273 U. S. 45; Morris v. Duby, 274 U. S.135, 143; and its
power to require users to contribute to the cost and upkeep, Hendrick v. Maryland, 235 U. S.610; Clark v. Poor,
274 U. S. 554, have been settled by these recent decisions.' But the facts here alleged may, if established,
require the application of those principles to conditions
differing materially from any heretofore passed upon by
this Court.
The contentions made in the briefs and arguments suggest, among other questions, the following: Where there
is congestion of city streets sufficient to justify some limitation of the number of motor vehicles to be operated
thereon as common carriers, or some prohibition of stops
to load or unload passengers, may the limitation or prohibition be applied to some vehicles used wholly or partly
in interstate commerce while, at the same time, vehicles
of like character, including many that are engaged solely
in local, or intrastate, commerce are not subjected thereto? Is the right in the premises to which interstate carriers would otherwise be entitled, affected by the fact
that, prior to the establishment of the interstate lines,
2The protection afforded by the Fourteenth Amendment to motor
carriers for hire using the highways exclusively in intrastate commerce
was considered in Packard v. Banton, 264 U. S. 140, and in Frost &
Frost Trucking Co. v. Railroad Comnission, 271 U. S. 583. See
also Hess v. Pawloski, 274 U. S.352.

HAMMOND v. SCHAPPI BUS LINE.
164

Opinion of the Court.

the City had granted to a local carrier, by contract or
franchise, the unlimited right to use all the streets of the
City, and that elimination of the interstate vehicles would
put an end to the congestion experienced? May the
City's right to limit the number of vehicles, and to prohibit stops to load or unload passengers, be exercised in
such a way as to allocate streets on which motor traffic
is more profitable exclusively to the local lines and to
allocate streets on which the traffic is less profitable to
the lines engaged wholly, or partly, in interstate commerce? Is limitation of the number of vehicles, or prohibition of stops to load or unload passengers, of carriers
engaged wholly, or partly, in interstate commerce, justifiable, where the congestion could be obviated by denying
to private carriers existing parking privileges or by curtailing those so enjoyed? Are the rights of the interstate
carrier in the premises dependent, in any respect, upon
the dates of the establishment of its lines, as compared
with the dates of the establishment of the lines of the
local carrier?
These questions have not, so far as appears, been considered by either of the lower courts. The facts essential
to their determination have not been found by either
court. And the evidence in the record is not of such a
character that findings could now be made with confidence. The answer denied many of the material allegations of the bill. The evidence consists of the pleadings
and affidavits. The pleadings are confusing. The affidavits are silent as to some facts of legal significance; lack
definiteness as to some matters; and present serious conflicts on issues of facts that may be decisive. For aught
that appears, the lower courts may have differed in their
decisions solely because they differed as to conclusions of
fact. Before any of the questions suggested, which are
both novel and of far reaching importance, are passed

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

upon by this Court, the facts essential to their decision
should be definitely found by the lower courts upon
adequate evidence.
There is an added reason why this Court should not
now make the findings of fact or rulings of law involved
in these contentions. The Court of Appeals erred in
assuming, as its opinion discloses, that the case had been
submitted below as upon final hearing; and that the
appeal before it was from a final decree dismissing the
bill. The appeal was from the interlocutory decree denying the preliminary injunction; and the record discloses
no later proceedings in the District Court. The case was
not yet ripe for final disposition by the Court of Appeals.
Compare Eagle Glass & Mfg. Co. v. Rowe, 245 U. S. 275,

283. Findings and rulings if now made on the basis of
the evidence presented at the hearing on the application
for the temporary injunction, might be rendered of no
avail by the presentation of other or additional evidence
when the case comes on for final hearing.
Under these circumstances, we deem it proper that,
without costs in this Court to either party, the decree of
the Circuit Court of Appeals be modified by recognizing
that the decree in the District Court was only interlocutory, by directing an injunction pending the suit, and by
remanding the cause to the District Court for proceedings
on final hearing, with liberty to that court, among other
things, to allow amendment of the pleadings.'
Decree modified and cause remanded to District Court.
Compare Estho v. Lear, 7 Pet. 130; Chicago, Milwaukee & St.
Paul Ry. Co. v. Tompkins, 176 U. S. 167, 179; United States v. Rio
Grande Dam & Irrigation Co., 184 U. S. 416, 423; Lincoln Gas &
Electric Light Co. v. Lincoln, 223 U. S. 349, 364.

