COMPAR4iA DE TABACOS v. COLLECTOR.

87

Syllabus.

78

a state constitutional injunction of equal protection, the
same as the Fourteenth Amendment, was then referred
to, and this Court continued:
"Similar laws have been enacted by Congress under
its general power of legislation over the District of
Columbia, Rev. Stat. D. C. §§ 281, 282, 283, 310, 319, as
well as by the legislatures of many of the States, and have
been generally, if not uniformly, sustained by the
Courts," citing many of the cases above named.
Most of the cases cited arose, it is true, over the establishment of separate schools as between white pupils and
black pupils, but we can not think that the question is
any different or that any different result can be reached,
assuming the cases above cited to be rightly decided,
where the issue is as between white pupils and the pupils
of the yellow races. The decision is within the discretion
of the state in regulating its public schools and does not
conflict with the Fourteenth Amendment. The judgment
of the Supreme Court of Mississippi is
Affirmed.
COMPANIA GENERAL DE TABACOS DE FILIPINAS v. COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI

TO THE

SUPREME

COURT OF THE PHILIPPINE

ISLANDS.

No. 42. Argued October 18, 19, 1927.-Decided November 21, 1927.
1. A foreign corporation which has property and does business
through agents in the Philippine Islands is subject to the taxing
power of the Island government as a quasi sovereign, but the
power is limited by the Organic Act. P. 92.
2. The liberty secured by the Organic Act embraces the right to
make contracts and accumulate property and do business outside
of the Philippine Islands and beyond its jurisdiction without prohibition, regulation, or governmental exaction. P. 92.

88

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

3. A merchandising corporation organized and having its headquarters in a foreign country, with property and local agents in the
Philippines, can not be taxed by the Philippine government upon
the premiums for the insurance of its goods shipped from the
Islands, paid abroad upon a marine policy entered into abroad
with a foreign insurance company having no license or agent in the
Islands, and to be performed abroad. P. 92.
4. This is true whether the imposition be regarded as a penalty or
as a tax, and regardless of its amount. The purpose in either case
is to discourage insurance in outside companies by regulating the
conduct of the insured not within the local jurisdiction. P. 95.
5. Where a foreign corporation doing business in the Philippine
Islands insures goods in the Islands against fire, in a foreign insurance company which is licensed to do business there, the premiums
paid are subject to taxation by the Philippine government, even
though the policy was executed and the payments made in a foreign country where the assured had its headquarters. P. 98.
48 P. I. 35, reversed in part; affirmed in part.

CERTIORARI, 271 U. S. 655, to a judgment of the
Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands which affirmed
a judgment dismissing an action brought by the present
petitioner to recover the money demanded of it by the
respondent as taxes on insurance premiums, and which
the petitioner paid under protest.
Messrs. W. F. Williamson, B. M. Aikins, and Barry
Mohun for petitioner, submitted.
Mr. William Cattron Rigby, with whom Messrs. Delfin
Jaranilla,Attorney General of the Philippine Islands, and
A. R. Stallings were on the brief, for respondent.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The Compaiia General de Tabacos de Filipinas, hereafter to be called the Tobacco Company, brought this suit
in the Court of First Instance in Manila to recover from
the Philippine Collector of Internal Revenue certain sums
paid under protest as internal revenue taxes on insurance

COMPAMtA DE TABACOS v. COLLECTOR.
87

89

Opinion of the Court.

premiums which the Tobacco Company during the year
1922, through its head office in Barcelona, Spain, paid to
the Guardian Insurance Company of London, England,
and to Le Comit6 des Assurances Maritimes de Paris of
Paris, France. These two insurance companies we shall
hereafter designate as the London Company and the Paris
Company. The case was heard on an agreed statement of
facts. The Tobacco Company is a corporation, duly
organized under the laws of the Kingdom of Spain, and
licensed to do business in the Philippine Islands, maintaining its chief office in the Islands in the city of Manila.
During the year 1922 the Tobacco Company purchased
and placed in its warehouses in the Philippines, merchandise, and from time to time notified its head office in Barcelona of its value. The Tobacco Company at its head
office in Barcelona then insured the merchandise against
fire under open and running policies of insurance carried
by it with the London Company, and paid premiums of
forty-eight hundred and thirty-five and 32/100 pesos.
Subsequent to the purchase of the merchandise, the Tobacco Company from time to time shipped it to Europe,
and by cable notified its head office in Barcelona of the
value of the shipments. The head office thereupon insured with the Paris Company these shipments for and on
behalf of the Tobacco Company against marine risks under
open and running policies, premiums on which amounted
during the year 1922 to 100,050.44 pesos, and the premiums thus paid were charged to the expense of the Tobacco
Company at Manila. The London Company is licensed to
do insurance business in the Philippine Islands and has an
agent there. The Paris Company is not licensed to do
business in the Philippines and has no agent there. Losses,
if any, on these policies were to be paid to the Tobacco
Company by the London Company in London and by the
Paris Company in Paris. The insurance effected was
secured without the use of any agent, company, corpora-

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

tion or other representative of the companies doing business in the Philippine Islands. The collector in 1923
assessed and collected from the Tobacco Company a tax
of one per cent. upon the premiums paid by it to the London Company of 4832.25 pesos, or 48 32/100 pesos, and
on those paid by it to the Paris Company 100,050 44/100
pesos, or 1000 50/100 pesos. These sums were paid under
protest in writing. The protests were overruled on the
27th day of July, 1923, and on the 16th of August the
plaintiff filed this action for the recovery of the taxes.
The taxes were collected under § 192 of Act No. 2427,
as amended by Act No. 2430, of the Statutes of the Philippines. 9 Public Laws 292. That section provides that
it shall be unlawful for any person or corporation in the
Philippines to procure, receive or forward applications for
insurance in, or to issue or to deliver or accept policies of,
or for, any company or companies not having been legally
authorized to transact business in the Philippine Islands,
and that any person or company violating this section
shall be guilty of a penal offense and upon conviction
shall be punished by a fine of two hundred pesos, or
imprisonment for two months, or both in the discretion of
the court. The section contains a proviso that insurance
may be placed by authority of a certificate of the insurance commissioner to any regularly authorized fire or
marine insurance agent of the Islands, subject to revocation at any time, permitting the person named therein to
procure policies of insurance on risks located in the Philippine Islands in companies not authorized to transact
business in the Philippine Islands. Before the agent named
in the certificate shall procure any insurance in such company, it must be shown by affidavit that the person desiring insurance after diligent effort has been unable to procure in any of the companies authorized to do business in
the Philippine Islands the amount of insurance necessary.

COMPAM A DE TABACOS v. COLLECTOR.
87

91

Opinion of the Court.

The agent is to make a yearly report to the Collector of
Internal Revenue of all premiums received by the company he represents under the previous authority, and he
is to pay to the collector of internal revenue a tax equal
to twice the tax imposed by § 79 of Act No. 2339, [i. e.,
1% thereof] which tax shall be paid at the same time and
be subject to the same penalty for delinquency as the tax
imposed by Act No. 2339. 9 Public Laws of Philippine
Islands, February 27, 1914, p. 296. It is provided further
that the prohibitions of the section shall not prevent an
owner of property from applying for and obtaining for
himself policies in foreign- companies in cases where he
does not make use of an agent residing in the Philippine
Islands. In such cases it shall be his duty to report to the
Insurance Commissioner each case where the insurance
has been effected and shall pay a tax of one per centum on
premiums paid in the manner required by law of insurance companies, and shall be subject to the same penalties
for failure to do so.
The court of first instance sustained the validity of the
tax as to each insurance company. The Supreme Court
of the Philippines affirmed the judgment. Two judges
of the latter court dissented on the ground that the tax
violated the rule of uniformity, and was a denial of the
equal protection of the law.
The Philippine Organic Act (39 Stat. 545, 546, c. 416,
§ 3) imposes upon the legislature of the Philippine
Islands the same limitation by which the Fourteenth
Amendment restrains the States of the Union, to wit, that
no law shall be enacted in said Islands which shall deprive any person of life, liberty or property without due
process of law, or deny to any person the equal protection
of the laws. The question of the validity of the tax on
the premiums differs in respect to those paid the two
insurance companies.

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

Coming then to the tax on the premiums paid to the
Paris .Company, the contract of insurance on which the
premium was paid was made at Barcelona, in Spain, the
headquarters of the Tobacco Company, between the
Tobacco Com'pany and the Paris Company, and any
losses arising thereunder were to be paid in Paris. The
Paris Company had no communication whatever with
anyone in the Philippine Islands. The collection of this
tax involves an exaction upon a company of Spain, lawfully doing business in the Philippine Islands, effected by
reason of a contract made by that company with a company in Paris on merchandise shipped from the Philippine Islands for delivery in Barcelona. It is an imposition upon a contract not made in the Philippines and
having no situs there, and to be measured by money paid
as premium in Paris, with the place of payment of loss,
if any, in Paris. We are very clear that the contract and
the premiums paid under it are not within the jurisdiction of the government of the Philippine Islands. The
taxpayer, however, is resident in the Philippine Islands
and within the governmental jurisdiction of those Islands.
Its property in the Islands and its agents doing business
there are within the reach of the government of the
Islands. The Company may be compelled to pay what
the government in its quasi sovereignty chooses to exact
as a matter of power, unless restrained by law. A legal
restriction upon the taxing power of the Philippine
government over citizens and residents of the Islands is
found in the liberty secured by the Organic Act, which
embraces the right to make contracts and accumulate
property, and do business outside of the Philippine
Islands and beyond its jurisdiction, without prohibition,
regulation, or governmental exaction.
In Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165 U. S. 578, a law of
Louisiana provided that any person who should do any
act in Louisiana to effect for himself or for another,

COMPAIRIA DE TABACOS v. COLLECTOR.
87

93

Opinion of the Court.

insurance on property then in that state, in any marine
insurance company which had not complied in all respects
with the laws of the state, should be subject to a fine of
$1,000 for each offense. Allgeyer was sued for violating
the statute, because he had mailed a letter in New
Orleans to the Atlantic Mutual Insurance Company of
New York, advising that company of a shipment of 100
bales of cotton to foreign ports, with bill of lading and
an insurance certificate in accordance with the terms of
an open marine policy of its issuing. Action was brought
to recover for three such violations of the act the sum
of $3,000. The answer was that the act was unconstitutional, in that it deprived the defendant of its liberty
without due process of law; that the business concerning
which the defendants were sought to be made liable and
the contracts made in reference to such business were
beyond the jurisdiction of the state, because the contract
of insurance was made with an insurance company in the
State of New York, where the premiums were to be paid
and where the losses thereunder, if any, were to be paid.
This Court held that citizens of a state had a right to
contract outside the state for insurance on their property, a right of which the state legislature could not
deprive them, because coming within the" liberty" protected by the Fourteenth Amendment, and that the letter
sent to the company was a proper act, which the state
legislature had no right to prevent, this even though the
property which was the subject of the insurance had been
within the state.
On the authority of the Allgeyer case, this Court decided
St. Louis Cotton Compress Company v. State of Arkansas,
260 U. S. 346. That was a siit by the State of Arkansas
against the Compress Company, a corporation of Missouri, authorized to do business in Arkansas. It was
brought to recover 5 per cent. on the gross premiums paid
by the Compress Company for insurance upon its property

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

in Arkansas to companies not authorized to do business in
that state. A statute of Arkansas in terms imposed a
liability for this 5 per cent. as a tax. The answer alleged,
and the proof showed, that the policies were contracted
for, delivered and paid in St. Louis, Missouri, where the
rates were less than those charged by companies authorized to do business in Arkansas. The plaintiff demurred.
The Supreme Court of the State justified the imposition
as an occupation tax. This Court said:
" The short question is whether this so-called tax is
saved because of the name given to it by statute when it
has been decided in Allgeyer v. Louisiana, 165 U. S. 578,
that the imposition of a round sum, called a fine, for doing
the same thing, called an offense, is invalid under the
Fourteenth Amendment. It is argued that there is a distinction because the Louisiana statute prohibits (by implication) what this statute permits. But that distinction,
apart from some relatively insignificant collateral consequences, is merely in the amount of the detriment imposed
upon doing the act. . . . Here it is five per cent. upon
the premiums-which is three per cent. more than is
charged for insuring in authorized companies. Each is
a prohibition to the extent of the payment required. The
Arkansas tax manifests no less plainly than the Louisiana
fine. a purpose to discourage insuring in companies that
do not pay tribute to the State. The case is stronger than
that of Allgeyer in that here no act was done within the
State, whereas there a letter constituting a step in the
contract was posted within the jurisdiction. Ii is true
that the State may regulate the activities of foreign corporations within the State but it cannot regulate or interfere with what they do outside."
The authority of these cases is controlling in disposing
of the one before us. The effect of them is that, as a state
is forbidden to deprive a person of his liberty without due
process of law, it may not compel any one within its juris-

COMPAI fA DE TABACOS v. COLLECTOR.
87

95

Opinion of the Court.

diction to pay tribute to it for contracts or money paid to
secure the benefit of contracts made and to be performed
outside of the state.
But it is said that these two cases were really cases of
penalties, although in the Compress Company case the
law called the imposition an occupation tax. We are
unable to see any sound distinction between the imposition of a so-called tax and the imposition of a fine in
such a case. A so-called tax is just as much an interference with the liberty of contract as is a penalty by
fine, where the subject matter giving rise to the imposition is beyond the jurisdiction of the state. Reference
was made in the Compress case to the fact that that
which was imposed was larger than would have been
the tax in the state if all parties had been in the state and
the contract had been made there, but the decision itself
clearly does not depend for its basis upon discrimination
as between a tax and a prohibition or the amount of it.
This Court said, in comparing the Allgeyer case and the
Compress case:
"In Louisiana the detriment was $1,000. Here it is five
per cent. upon the premiums-which is three per cent.
more than is charged for insuring in authorized companies.
Each is a prohibition to the extent of the payment required. The Arkansas tax manifests no less plainly than
the Louisiana fine a purpose to discourage insuring in companies that do not pay tribute to the State."
And that is just what this tax is for. Even though it is
only equal to the tax upon normal premiums paid in the
Philippine Islands, it is imposed for the purpose of discouraging insurance in companies that do not pay tribute
to the state because out of its taxing or penalizing jurisdiction. As the language above quoted from the opinion
in the Compress case shows, the action of Arkansas was
invalid, because of its attempt " to regulate" the conduct
of the Compress Company in respect of a matter not

96

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

within its local jurisdiction. Taxation is regulation just
as prohibition is.
It is sought to take this case out of the Allgeyer and the
Compress cases by reference to Equitable Life Assurance
Society v. Pennsylvania, 238 U. S. 143. The Equitable
Life Assurance Society of New York did business in
Pennsylvania. The Legislature levied an annual tax of
2 per cent. upon the gross premiums of every character
received from business done by it within the state during
the preceding year. The company paid large taxes, but
appealed to the state courts to relieve it from charges for
such of the premiums for five years as had been paid
outside the state by residents of Pennsylvania. It was
contended by the company that such taxation was of
property beyond the jurisdiction of the state, relying on
the Allgeyer case. This Court held that the tax was a
tax for the privilege of doing business in Pennsylvania,
and that the fact that the state could not prevent the
contracts did not interfere with its right to consider the
benefit annually extended to the Assurance Society by
Pennsylvania in measuring the value of the privileges so
extended; that the tax was a tax upon a privilege actually
used, and the only question -concerned the mode of measuring the tax. This Court said as to that:
"A certain latitude must be allowed. It is obvious that
many incidents of the contract are likely to be attended
to in Pennsylvania, such as payment of dividends when
received in cash, sending an adjuster into the State in
case of dispute, or making proof of death. See Connecticut Mut. Life Ins. Co. v. Spratley, 172 U. S. 602, 611;
Pennsylvania Lumbermem's Mut. Fire Ins. Co. v. Meyer,
179 U. S. 407, 415. It is not unnatural to take the policy
holders residing in the State as a measure without going
into nicer if not impracticable details. Taxation has to
be determined by general principles, and it seems to us

•COMPANIA DE TABACOS v. COLLECTOR.
87

97

Opinion of the Court.

impossible to say that the rule adopted in Pennsylvania
goes beyond what the Constitution allows."
The case is not in conflict either with the Allgeyer case
or with the Compress case, decided as late as December,
1922. It turns entirely on the fact that the taxpayer had
subjected itself to the jurisdiction of Pennsylvania in
doing business there, and it was for the state to say what
the condition of its doing that business in the matter of
the payment of taxes should be. This Court said that
the Equitable Society was doing business in Pennsylvania
when it was annually paying dividends in Pennsylvania,
or sending an adjuster into the state in case of dispute,
or making proof of death, and therefore that it was not
improper to measure the tax for doing business in the
state by the number of individuals whose lives had been
insured and with respect to whom, and the execution of
whose contracts, the company was necessarily doing business in the state, even if the premiums paid by some of
them had not been paid in the state.
It is true that, in considering the question of the
measure of the tax, this Court referred to the argument
of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania that the tax might
be properly measured by New York contracts because
Pennsylvania protected the individuals insured therein
during their lives in Pennsylvania. Our Court accepted
this as one of several reasons for including such individuals in the measure of the tax, because of the incidental business done by the Insurance Company in Pennsylvania which the living of such individuals in that state,
after the making of the contract, brought into its performance and consummation. But such reference can
not be made a basis for an argument that such protection
as the Government of the Philippine Islands gave to the
merchandise while being shipped at Manila furnished any
jurisdiction for a tax by that Government on the premiums paid in Barcelona upon the insurance contract.
83583°-28--7

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

If that were to be admitted, then neither the Allgeyer nor
the Compress case could be sustained, for the property in
each of those cases was protected by the government
seeking to impose the forbidden exactions upon the
owner, who obtained the insurance out of the state, on
that property within it. The tax here is not on the property insured. It is a tax on the contract, or its proceeds,
which were not in the Philippines, or expected to be
there. The Equitable Society case does not control or
affect the question we are considering. Unless we are to
reverse the Compress and Allgeyer cases, the judgment of
the Supreme Court of the Philippines in respect of the
tax on the premiums paid to the Paris Company must be
held to be erroneous.
Second. We come now to the question of the tax upon
the premiums paid to the London Company, which was
licensed and presumably was doing business in the
Philippine Islands. Does the fact that, while the Tobacco
Company and the London Company were within the
jurisdiction of the Philippines, they made a contract outside of the Philippines for the insurance of merchandise
in the Philippines, prevent the imposition upon the
assured of a tax of one per cent. upon the money paid
by it as a premium to the London Company? We may
properly assume that this tax, placed upon the assured,
must ultimately be paid by the insurer, and treating its
real incidence as such, the question arises whether making and carrying out the policy does not involve an
exercise or use of the right of the London Company to do
business in the Philippine Islands under its license, because the policy covers fire risks on property within the
Philippine Islands which may require adjustment, and
the activities of agents in the Philippine Islands with
respect to settlement of losses arising thereunder. This
we think must be answered affirmatively under Equitable
Life Society v. Pennsylvania, 238 U. S. 143. The case
is a close one, but in deference to the conclusion we

COMPAIRfA DE TABACOS v. COLLECTOR.
87

99

HOLMES AND BRANDEIs, J.J. dissenting.

reached in the latter case, we affirm the judgment of the
court below in respect to the tax upon the premium paid
to the London Company.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of the
Islands is reversed in part and affirmed in part.
MR. JUSTICE HOLMES,

dissenting.

This is a suit to recover the amount of a tax alleged to
have been illegally imposed. The plaintiff is a Spanish
corporation licensed to do business in the Philippine
Islands and having an office in Manila. in 1922 from
time to time it bought goods and put them into its Philippine warehouses. It notified its head office in Barcelona,
Spain, of the value of the goods and that office thereupon
insured them under open policies issued by a company of
London. From time to time also the Philippine branch
shipped the goods abroad for sale and secured insurance
upon the shipments in the same manner, the premiums
being charged to it in both cases. By § 192 of the Philippine Insurance Act, No. 2427, as amended by Act No.
2430, where owners of property obtain insurance directly with foreign companies, the owners are required to
report each case to the Collector of Internal Revenue and
to 'pay the tax of one per centum on premium paid, in
the manner required by law of insurance companies.'
The defendant Collector collected this tax on the above
mentioned premiums from the plaintiff against its protest.
The plaintiff bases its suit upon the contentions that the
statute is contrary to the Act of Congress of August 29,
1916, c. 416, § 3, (the Jones Act); 39 Stat. 545, 546, 547, as
depriving it of its property without due process of law,
and also as departing from the requirement in the same
section that the rules of taxation shall be uniform. The
Supreme Court of the Philippines upheld the tax. A writ
of certiorari was granted by this Court. 271 U. S. 655.

100

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
HOLMES AND BRANDEIS,

J.J. dissenting.

275 U. S.

The plaintiff's reliance is upon Allgeyer v. Louisiana,
165 U. S. 578, in which it was held that a fine could not
be imposed by the State -for sending a notice similar to
the present to an insuranc4 company out of the State.
But it seems to me that the tax was justified and that this
case is distinguished from that of Allgeyer and from St.
Louis Cotton Compress Co. v. Arkansas, 260 U. S. 346,
by the difference between a penalty and a tax. It is true,
as indicated in the last cited case, that every exaction of
money for an act is a discouragement to the extent of the
payment required, but that, which in its immediacy is a
discouragement may be part of an encouragement when
seen in its organic connection with the whole. Taxes
are what we pay for civilized society, including the chance
to insure. A penalty on the other hand is intended altogether to prevent the thing punished. It readily may be
seen that a State may tax things that under the Constitution as interpreted it can not prevent. The constitutional right asserted in Allgeyer v. Louisiana to earn one's
livelihood by any lawful calling certainly is consistent,
as we all know, with the calling being taxed.
Sometimes there may be a difficulty in deciding whether
an imposition is a tax or a penalty, but generally the
intent to prohibit when it exists is plainly expressed.
Sometimes even when it is called a tax the requirement is
shown to be a penalty by its excess in amount over the
tax in similar cases, as in St. Louis Cotton Compress Co.
v. Arkansas. But in the present instance there is no
room for doubt. The charge not only is called a tax but
is the same in amount as that imposed where the right
to impose it is not denied.
The Government has the insured within its jurisdiction.
I can see no ground for denying its right to use its power
to tax unless it can be shown that it has conferred no
benefit of a kind that would justify the tax, as is held
with regard to prolerty 'outside of a State belonging to
one within it. Frick v. Pennsylvania, 268 U. S. 473, 489.

WICKWIRE v. REINECkE.
87

Syllabus.

But here an act was done in the Islands that was intended
by the plaintiff to be and was an essential step towards
the insurance, and, if that is not enough, the Government
of the Islands was protecting the property at the very
moment in respect of which it levied the tax. Precisely
this question was met and disposed of in Equitable Life
Assurance Co. v. Pennsylvania, 238 U. S. 143, 147.
The result of upholding the Government's action is
just. When it taxes domestic insurance it reasonably
may endeavor not to let the foreign insurance escape. If
it does not discriminate against the latter, it naturally
does not want to discriminate against its own.
The suggestion that the rule of taxation is not uniform
may be disposed of in a few words. The uniformity
required is uniformity in substance, not in form. The
insurance is taxed uniformly, and although in the case
of domestic insurance the tax is laid upon the Company
whereas here it is laid upon the insured, it must be
presumed that in the former case the Company passes
the tax on to the insured as an element in the premium
charged.

For these reasons Mr. Justice

BRANDEIS

and I are of

the opinion that the judgment of the Supreme Court of
the Islands should be affirmed.
WICKWIRE, INDIVIDUALLY AND AS EXECUTRIX, v. REINECKE, COLLECTOR OF INTERNAL REVENUE.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT

No. 149.

Submitted October 3, 1927.-Decided November 21, 1927.

1. A decision of the Commissioner of Internal Revenue that property
of a decedent was transferred by him in contemplation of death,
within the meaning of § 402-c, Revenue Act of 1918, (estate tax),
is not conclusive, but the burden of proving it incorrect is on the
party suing the collector to recover taxes based upon it. P. 105.

