220

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Syllabus.

275 U. S.

way of increase over the original capital stock," and that
the provision including "paid in or earned surplus and
undivided profits used or employed in the business" recognized "that in some cases contributions are received
from stockholders in money or its equivalent for the
specific purpose of creating an actual excess capital over
and above the par value of the stock." And see Appeal
of Valdosta Grocery Co., 2 B. T..A. 727, 729, and Appeal
of Gould Copper Co., 5 B. T. A. 499, 517.
The fact that under Title II of the Revenue Act of
1918 providing for an income tax, a corporation, as was
held in Long Beach Improvement Co. v. Commissioner
of InternalRevenue, 5 B. T. A. 590, was subject to a tax
upon its net income despite an impairment of its capital,
is not of moment. The deductions from gross income
allowed by that Title do not refer to invested capital,
surplus or undivided profits, and its provisions throw no
light upon the meaning of those terms as used in Title
III providing for an excess-profits tax.
The judgment of the District Court is affirmed; and
that of the Circuit Court of Appeals
Reversed.
BLAIR, COMMISSIONER, v. OESTERLEIN MACHINE COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 210. Argued October 10, 1927.-Decided November 21, 1927.
1. The Board of Tax Appeals, in reviewing a refusal by the Commissioner of Internal Revenue to apply special assessment provisions
of the Revenue Act of 1918, may subpoena the Commissioner to
answer interrogatories and furnish information from returns of
other taxpayers relevant to the inquiry. P. 224.
2. The authority of the Board of Tax Appeals to review a determination of the Commissioner finding a deficiency in respect of a tax,
Revenue Act, 1924, §§ 900 (e), 273, 274, extends to determinations

BLAIR v. OESTERLEIN CO.
220

Opinion of the Court.

under §§ 327 and 328 of 'the Revenue Act of 1918, which provide
for computation of the excess-profits tax of a corporation, in certain cases, upon the basis of a comparison with tax returns of other
corporate taxpayers similarly situated. P. 226.
3. The Board's appellate powers are not limited by § 1018 of the
Act, prohibiting the publication by Collectors of information gained
in the course of their duties. P. 227.
4. In his final determination of the taxpayer's taxes for 1918 and 1919
the Commissioner considered the returns for those years together,
reduced the 1918 tax and increased the 1919 tax, and found the net
balance as a deficiency. The question whether under § 274, authorizing review by the Board only of the Commissioner's determination
of a "deficiency," the Board was empowered to consider his treatment of the 1918 tax was not raised before the Board or the courts
below and not specified in the petition for certiorari. Held, that it
will not be considered by this Court. P. 225.
17 F. (2d) 663, affirmed as modified.

CERTIORARI, 274 U. S. 730, to a decree of the Court
of Appeals of the District of Columbia, which affirmed a
decree of the Supreme Court of the District of Columbia,
commanding the Commissioner of Internal Revenue to
respond to a subpoena of the Board of Tax Appeals.
Assistant to the Attorney GeneralDonovan, with whom
Solicitor General Mitchell and Messrs. A. W. Gregg, General Counsel, and Charles T. Hendler, Special Attorney,
Bureau of Internal Revenue, were on the brief, for
petitioner.
Mr. J. Robert Sherrod, with whom Messrs. John J.
Hamilton and Robert N. Miller were on the brief, for
respondent.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.

This is a proceeding brought in the Supreme Court of
the District of Columbia under § 1025 (a) of the Revenue
Act of 1924 (c. 234, 43 Stat. 253, 348; U. S. C., Title 26,
§ 1258) to compel the Commissioner of Internal Revenue
to respond to a subpoena of the Board of Tax Appeals
issued under § 900 (i) requiring him to answer interroga-

222

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

tories, and to furnish information contained in the tax
returns of twelve corporations. The Commissioner denied the authority of the Board to require a response to
the subpcena. A decree upholding the jurisdiction of the
Board and ordering the Commissioner to obey was affirmed by the Court of Appeals of the District, 17 Fed.
(2d) 663. The case is here on certiorari. 274 U. S. 730.
Respondent corporation returned and paid excess profits taxes for the years 1918, 1919 and 1920. In the final
determination of these taxes the Commissioner considered
together the returns for all three years. He reduced the
1918 tax, increased the 1919 tax, and found the net balance as a deficiency. In fixing the amount of the tax for
1918, the Commissioner, as requested by the taxpayer in
an amended return for that year, made a special assessment under §§ 327 and 328 of the Revenue Act of 1918
(c. 18, 40 Stat. 1057, 1093), but decided that no grounds
existed for a special assessment for the year 1919, and so
determined the tax for that year using the ordinary assessment method provided by §§ 301, 311 and 312.
The invested capital of the corporation taxed is one of
the necessary factors in the computation of the tax under
those sections. In evident anticipation that in some cases
the Commissioner might find it difficult or impossible to
ascertain the invested capital, or that in the disturbed
economic conditions left by the war, the tax in some cases
might be harsh in comparison with others, a special method
of assessment for those cases (enumerated in § 327) was
provided by § 328. These sections, printed in the margin,1 authorize the computation of the excess profits tax
I Sec. 327. That in the following cases the tax shall be determined
as provided in section 328:
(a) Where the Commissioner is unable to determine the invested
capital as provided in section 326;
(b) In the case of a foreign corporation;
(c) Where a mixed aggregate of tangible property and intangible
property has been paid in for stock or for stock and bonds and the
Commissioner is unable satisfactorily to determine the respective

BLAIR v. OESTERLEIN CO.
220

Opinion of the Court.

on the basis of a comparison with the data contained in
the tax returns of other corporate taxpayers similarly
situated.
Respondent, on appeal to the Board of Tax Appeals,
assailed the determination of the Commissioner on the
ground that although the 1918 tax had been assessed
under § 328, the standard of comparison applied was erroneous and resulted in an excessive assessment, and on the
values of the several classes of property at the time of payment, or
to distinguish the classes of property paid in for stock and for bonds,
respectively;
(d) Where upon application by the corporation the Commissioner
finds and so declares of record that the tax if determined without
benefit of this section would, owing to abnormal conditions affecting
the capital or income of the corporation, work upon the corporation
an exceptional hardship evidenced by gross disproportion between the
tax computed without benefit of this section and the tax computed
by reference to the representative corporations specified in section 328.
This subdivision shall not apply to any case (1) in which the tax
(computed without benefit of this section) is high merely because the
corporation earned within the taxable year a high rate of profit upon
a normal invested capital, nor (2) in which 50 per centum or more
of the gross income of the corporation for the taxable year (computed
under section 233 of Title II) consists of gains, profits, commissions,
or other income, derived on a cost-plus basis from a Government contract or contracts made between April 6, 1917, and November 11,
1918, both dates inclusive.
Sec. 328 (a) In the cases specified in section 327 the tax shall be the
amount which bears the same ratio to the net income of the taxpayer
(in excess of the specific exemption of $3,000) for the taxable year,
as the average tax of representative corporations engaged in a like or
similar trade or business, bears to their average net income (in excess
of the specific exemption of $3,000) for such year. In the case of a
foreign corporation the tax shall be computed without deducting the
specific exemption of $3,000 either for the taxpayer or the representative corporations.
In computing the tax under this section the Commissioner shall
compare the taxpayer only with representative corporations whose
invested capital can be satisfactorily determined under section 326
and which are, as nearly as may be, similarly circumstanced with
respect to gross income, net income, profits per unit of business trans-

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

ground that the tax for 1919 should have been assessed
'under § 328. As to the latter contention it set up that as
the Commissioner had been unable satisfactorily to determine respondent's invested capital for 1917 and 1918, he
could not have done so for 1919, and that, since the net
income for 1919 was abnormal, its profits tax, if assessed
by the ordinary method, would be found excessive compared with the tax assessed on other representative
corporations.
The subpoena called for information concededly relevant to these contentions, and was properly issued if the
Board of Tax Appeals had authority to make the inquiry.
The Commissioner denies generally that any determinations made by him under § § 327 and 328 may be appealed,
and in any case objects that the appeal as to the year 1918
was not properly taken.
The aplieal was authorized if at all by § 900 (e) of the
Revenue Act of 1924 (c. 234, 43 Stat. 253, 337; U. S. C.,
Title 26, § 1216) under § 274 of that Act. Section 274
permits an appeal by the taxpayer only if " the Commissioner determines that there is a deficiency in respect of
acted and capital employed, the amount and rate of war profits or
excess profits, and all other relevant facts and circumstances.
(b) For the purposes of subdivision (a) the ratios between the
average tax and the average net income of representative corporations
shall be determined by the Commissioner in accordance with regulatians prescribed by him with the approval of the Secretary.
(c) The Commissioner shall keep a record of all cases in which the
tax is determined in the manner prescribed in subdivision (a), containing the name and address of each taxpayer, the business in which
engaged, the amount of invested capital and net income shown by the
return, and the amount of invested capital as determined under such
subdivision. The Commissioner shall furnish a copy of such record
and other detailed information with respect to such cases when
required by.resolution of either House of Congress, without regard to
the restrictions contained in section 257.

BLAIR v. OESTERLEIN CO.
220

225

Opinion of the Court.

the tax" which has been returned. " Deficiency" is defined by § 273 as "(1) The amount by which the tax
imposed . . . exceeds the amount shown as the tax
by the taxpayer upon his return; . . . (2) If no
amount is shown as the tax by the taxpayer on his
return, . . . then the amount by which the tax
exceeds the amounts previously assessed . . . as a
deficiency .
.
It is argued that although there was a deficiency for
1918 and 1919, as considered together by the Commissioner, the years must be treated separately in determining
whether a deficiency existed within the meaning of § 274,
for purposes of appeal. So treated there was no deficiency in the year 1918, since the Commissioner had
reduced the amount of the tax returned and paid for
that year. This argument was rejected in Appeal of E. J.
Barry, 1 B. T. A. 156, and the Commissioner appears
formally to have announced his acquiescence in its rejection. Int. Rev. Cum. Bull. IV-2-1.
We think the question suggested is not properly before
us. It was not specifically raised on the record before
the Board or either court below and, so far as appears,
was not considered by any of them. We were asked to
grant certiorari only to pass upon the question whether
the Commissioner's determinations under §§ 327 and 328
may be appealed to the Board of Tax Appeals. This
Court sits as a court of review. It is only in exceptional
cases, and then only in cases from the federal courts, that
questions not pressed or passed upon below are considered
here. Duignan v. United States, 274 U. S. 195. There
are specially cogent reasons why this rule should be adhered to when the question involves a practice of one of
the great departments of the government. Hence we do
not pass upon this aspect of the case with respect either
to the return or the amended return for 1918, and our
decision is without prejudice to the disposition of the
question wherever appropriately presented.
83583°-28----15

226

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

The Commissioner's objection that as to both years the
Board of Tax Appeals is without authority to review his
action is based not on any limitations to be found in the
sections of the act defining the jurisdiction of the Board,
but upon the peculiar provisions of §§ 327 and 328 themselves. These, it is argued, vest in the Commissioner the
exercise of a judgment and discretion in their nature not
subject to appellate review. It is pointed out that by
§ 327 assessments in the manner provided in § 328 are
permitted "where the Commissioner is unable to determine " the invested capital of the taxpayer, or where
"the Commissioner is unable satisfactorily to determine "
the value of a mixed aggregate of tangible and intangible
property paid in as capital, or where the Commissioner
"finds and so declares of record that the tax if determined without benefit of this section" would, owing to
abnormal conditions, work a hardship on the taxpayer.
And it is urged that this phraseology, evidences an intention to make his decision final. The conclusion is said to
be fortified by the confidential nature of the returns of
taxpayers with which comparison must be made in order
to make the assessment under § 328. Their privileged
character is thought to preclude a construction of the
appeal statute that would result in giving publicity to
tax returns and confidential information so carefully
guarded by other provisions of the revenue acts.
But there is no inherent impossibility or, indeed, serious
difficulty in reviewing judicially any determination authorized by §§ 327 and 328. The determination is to be
made upon prescribed and ascertainable data and is to
conform to standards set. up by the statute, all defined
with sufficient definiteness and clarity to be susceptible of
judicial scrutiny. We cannot assume that it is to be
either arbitrary or unrelated to the appropriate data in
the Commissioner's office, or that he is more qualified
to make it tha the Board established to review his deci-

BLAIR v. OESTERLEIN CO.
220

Opinion of the Court.

sions. An examination of the sections creating the Board
and investing it with power can leave no doubt that they
were intended to confer upon it appellate powers which
are judicial in character. Not only is it required by
§ 900 (e) to hear and determine appeals taken under
§ 274, which in terms allows an appeal in every case
where a deficiency is found by the Commissioner, but it
is empowered to administer oaths and to compel the
attendance of witnesses and the production of documents
and records. It may investigate anew the issues between
the government and the taxpayer and upon the determination of the appeal it may affirm, set aside or modify the
findings and decision of the Commissioner. In the light
of such provisions there is plainly no sufficient ground for
reading ihto § 274, allowing an appeal wherever a deficiency is found by the Commissioner, an exception based
on the supposedly sacrosanct character of his determinations under §§ 327 and 328.
But little weight can be given to the suggestion that
the Board's appellate powers are limited by the section of
the Act prohibiting the publication by collectors of information gained in the course of their duties. § 1018,
reenacting § 3167 of the Revised Statutes (U. S. C., Title
18, § 216). The prohibition is limited to disclosures made
"in any other manner than may be provided by law."
It cannot be deemed to forbid disclosures made in obedience to process lawfully issued in a judicial or quasijudicial proceeding, as has, indeed, been recognized by the
Treasury Department itself in Treasury Decision No.
2962, directing that copies of returns may be furnished
for the government's use as evidence in court. Neither
the statute nor the practice of the Department suggests
the existence of any governmental policy with respect to
the use of the returns as evidence in any way inconsistent
with the provisions of the statute authorizing the Board
of Tax Appeals to hear appeals and conduct proceedings
which are judicial in character.

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Counsel for Parties.

275 U. S.

As we do not pass upon the question whether the Board
of Tax Appeals had jurisdiction of the appeal, excepi
insofar as it is involved in our decision that the determinations of the Commissioner under §§ 327 and 328 are
subject to review by the Board, the decree will be so
modified as to be without prejudice to the petitioner's
presenting in any appropriate manner to the Board or
the Supreme Court of the District the questions whether
the Board of Tax Appeals had in other respects jurisdiction of the appeal as to the tax for 1918 and, if not, to
what extent the information called for by the subpoena
is relevant and admissible upon the hearing of the appeal
as to the tax for 1919.
Affirmed as modified.
TUCKER v. ALEXANDER, COLLECTOR.

.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 167.
In a suit
plaintiff
Stats. §
was not

Argued October 7, 1927.-Decided November 21, 1927.
to recover a tax brought against a Collector after the
has filed a claim for refund, made prerequisite by Rev.
3226, the objection that the ground of recovery relied on
sufficiently specified in the claim as required by Treasury

Regulations and the statute, is an objection that may be waived by
stipulation of the parties. P. 230.
15 F. (2d) 356, reversed.

CERTIORARI,

273 U. S. 689, to a judgment of the Cir-

cuit Court of Appeals which affirmed a judgment of the
District Court against the petitioner in a suit to recover
a tax from the respondent Collector.
Mr. Charles H. Garnett for petitioner.
Solicitor General Mitchell, with whom Messrs. A. W.
Gregg, General Counsel, and F. W. Dewart, Special At-

