C., B. & Q.R. R. v. WELLS-DICKEY TRUST CO. 161
Opinion of the Court.

CHICAGO, BURLINGTON & QUINCY RAILROAD
COMPANY v. WELLS-DICKEY TRUST COMPANY, ADMINISTRATOR.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE
MINNESOTA.

OF

No. 57. Argued October 20, 1927.-Decided November 21, 1927.
Under the Federal Employers' Liability Act, the cause of action for
death of an employee, upon which suit is to be brought by the
decedent's personal representative, accrues, (a) to the widow and
children if any survive, (b) to the parents, if neither widow nor
children survive, or (c) to dependent next of kin, if there be no
surviving widow, child or parent; but the liability is to one of the
three classes, not to the several classes collectively; and if the person, e. g., the mother, entitled at the death of the employee dies
thereafter before a recovery of the compensation, the cause of
action dies also, and suit may not be brought on behalf of the
class next in line. P. 162.

159 Minn. 417; 166 Id. 79, 83, reversed.

271 U. S. 657, to a judgment of the
Supreme Court of Minnesota, affirming a recovery of
damages in a suit under the Federal Employers' Liability
Act, brought by the special administrator of a deceased
railroad employee on behalf of his sister, as dependent
next of kin.
CERTIORARI,

Mr. J. C. James, with whom Messrs. J. A. Connell and
Bruce Scott were on the brief, for petitioner.
Messrs. F. M. Miner and Robert J. McDonald for
respondent, submitted.

MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Anderson was killed instantly while employed in interstate commerce by the Chicago, Burlington & Quincy
83583°-28-

11

162

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

Railroad. Wells-Dickey Trust Company.was appointed
special administrator and brought, in a state court of
Minnesota, this action under the Federal Employers' Liability Act, April 22, 1908, c. 149, § 1, 35 Stat. 65; United
States Code, Title 45, c. 2, § 51, for the benefit of a sister
alleged to be dependent. Anderson had not left surviving
widow, child, or father. His mother had survived him,
but died before the administrator was appointed. No
action was brought on her behalf. After proceedings
which it is unnecessary to detail, the Railroad moved for
a directed verdict, upon the ground that, since the mother
had survived, the cause of action vested in her; and that
when she died, the cause of action died with her. The
direction was denied; the plaintiff got a verdict; and the
judgment for the plaintiff entered thereon was affirmed
by the highest court of the State. 159 Minn. 417; 166
Minn. 79; 166 Minn. 83. This Court granted a writ of
certiorari. 271 U. S. 657.
Whether the action lies, depends upon the construction
to be given § 1 of the Federal Employers' Liability Act
and presents a novel question. That section provides:
"Every common carrier by railroad . . shall be
liable in damages to any person suffering injury while he
is employed by such carrier in such commerce, or, in case
of the death of such employee, to his or her personal
representative, for the benefit of the surviving widow or
husband and children of such employee; and, if none,
then of such employee's parents; and, if none, then of the
next of kin dependent upon such employee."
For an injury resulting in death the Act gives two
distinct causes of action. One is to compensate the injured person for his loss and suffering while he lives.
Under the original Act, that cause of action did not
survive. Michigan Central R. R. Co. v. Vreeland, 227
U. S. 59, 67-68. Now, under the amendment added as
§ 9 by Act of April 5, 1910, c. 143, 36 Stat. 291, it survives
to the personal representative. St. Louis, Iron Mountain

C., B. & Q. R. R. v. WELLS-DICKEY TRUST CO.
161

163

Opinion of the Court.

& Southern Ry. Co. v. Craft, 237 U. S. 648. Theosecond
cause of action is to compensate persons other than the
injured employee for pecuniary loss suffered by them
through the employee's death. While the suit thereon
must be brought by the personal representative of the
employee, he sues as trustee for the person or persons on
whose behalf the Act authorizes recovery. The question
is whether the sister, being, but for the short survival of
the mother, "next of kin, dependent upon such employee" is, under the circumstances, entitled to compensation.
The language of § 1 makes it clear that she is not. The
cause of action as there expressed, accrues to the widow
and children, if either survives. It accrues to the parents
if neither widow nor child survives. It accrues to the
next of kin dependent upon the employee, only if there is
no surviving widow, child or parent. There are, thus,
three classes of possible beneficiaries. But the liability is
in the alternative. It is to one of the three; not to the
several classes collectively. The contention is that if
the one entitled at the death of the employee to the compensation dies thereafter before a recovery, the action
may be brought on behalf of the class next in line. There
is no basis in the Act for such a shifting of the beneficiary.
The statute does not provide for a life interest in one,
with remainder over to others in the line of distribution.
Nor does it provide for vesting the right to compensation
in the one, with a conditional limitation to another, in
case the one entitled at the death happens to die thereafter without having secured recovery.
The cause of action accrues at the death. Reading Co.
v. Koons, 271 U. S. 58. When it accrues, there is an
immediate, final and absolute vesting; and the vesting is
in that one of the several possible beneficiaries who,
according to the express provision in the statute, is
declared entitled to be compensated. Upon Anderson's
death, an administrator might have been appointed and

164

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Statement of the Case.

275 U. S.

an action brought immediately. If it had been so
brought, it would have been for the benefit solely of the
mother; and no other action would have lain. The failure to bring the action in the mother's lifetime did not
result in creating a new cause of action after her death
for the benefit of the sister.
Reversed.
CITY OF HAMMOND v. SCHAPPI BUS LINE, INC.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 67. Argued October 25, 26, 1927.-Decided November 21, 1927.
1. In a suit in the federal courts to enjoin enforcement of a city
ordinance, its validity under the Federal Constitution is not properly
to be considered if it be found void under the State law; and
questions involving the application of that law should be discussed
and determined by the two courts below preliminary to their consideration here. P. 169.
2. Before novel and important questions of constitutional law in a
suit in the lower federal courts are passed upon by this Court, the
facts essential to their decision should be found by those courts
upon adequate evidence; this Court will not attempt to find the
facts from an inadequate record consisting of pleadings and affidavits used on an application for a temporary injunction. P. 171.
3. When a suit to enjoin enforcement of a city ordinance has gone no
farther in the District Court than an order overruling an application for a preliminary injunction based on pleadings and affidavits,
and reaches the Circuit Court of Appeals by appeal from that
order, it is not ripe for final disposition by a decree of the latter
court directing a permanent injunction. P. 172.
4. Under the circumstances, without costs to either party, the decree
of the Circuit Court of Appeals directing a permanent injunction
is modified by directing an injunction pending the suit, and by
remanding the cause to the District Court for proceedings on final
hearing with liberty to allow amendment of pleadings. P. 172.
11 F. (2d) 940, modified.
CERTIORARI, 273 U. S. 675, to a decree of the Circuit
Court of Appeals rendered on appeal from an order of the

