OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Counsel for Parties.

275 i. S.

MARRON v. UNITED STATES
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT

No. 185.

Argued October 12, 1927.-Decided November 21, 1927.

1. The requirement of the Fourth Amendment that warrants shall
particularly describe the things to be seized makes general searches
under them impossible and prevents the seizure of one thing under
a warrant describing another. As to what is to be taken, nothing
is left to the discretion of the officer executing the warrant. P. 195.
2. Under the Fourth Amendment and Title 18, U. S. Code, a search
warrant describing intoxicating liquors and articles for their manufacture does not authorize the seizure of a ledger and bills of account
found in a search of the premises specified in the warrant. P. 196.
3. Officers, in making a lawful search of premises where intoxicating
liquors are being unlawfully sold, may lawfully arrest, without a
warrant, a person there actually in charge of the premises and
actually engaged, in the presence of the officers, in a conspiracy to
maintain them, and may contemporaneously, as an incident to the
arrest, seize account books and papers not described in the search
warrant, but which are used in carrying on the criminal enterprise
and are found on the premises and in the immediate possession
and control of the person arrested. P. 198.
18 F. (2d) 218, affirmed.
CERTIORARI, 274 U. S. 727, to a judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals affirming the conviction of Marron on a
second trial for conspiracy to maintain a nuisance in
violation of the Prohibition Act. See also 8 F. (2d) 251.

Mr. Hugh L. Smith, with whom Mr. Benjamin L. McKinley was on the brief, for petitioner.
Assistant Attorney General Willebrandt, with whom
Solicitor General Mitchell and Mr. John J. Byrne, Attorney in the Department of Justice, were on the brief,
for the United States.

MARRON v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

192

MR. JUSTICE BUTLER delivered the opinion of the

Court.
October 17, 1924, the above named petitioner, one
Birdsall, and five others were indicted in the southern
division of the northern district of California. It was
charged that they conspired to commit various offenses
against the National Prohibition Act, including the maintenance of a nuisance at 1249 Polk Street, San Francisco.
§ 37 Criminal Code (U. S. C., Tit. 18, § 88). One defendant was never apprehended; one was acquitted; the
rest were found guilty. Of these, Marron, Birdsall, and
two others obtained review in the Circuit Court of Appeals. The judgment was affirmed as to all except petitioner. He secured reversal and a new trial. 8 F. (2d)
251. He was again found guilty; and the conviction was
affirmed. 18 F. (2d) 218.
Petitioner insists that a ledger and certain bills were
obtained through an illegal search and seizure and put in
evidence against him in violation of the Fourth and Fifth
Amendments. The question arose at the first trial. The
Circuit Court of Appeals held that the book and papers
were lawfully seized and admissible. When the second
conviction was before it, that court held the earlier decision governed the trial, established the law of the case,
and foreclosed further consideration.
For some time prior to October 1, 1924, petitioner was
the lessee of the entire second floor of 1249 Polk Street.
On that day a prohibition agent obtained from a Unifed
States commissioner a warrant for the search of that
place, particularly describing the things to be seizedintoxicating liquors and articles for their manufacture.
The next day, four prohibition agents went to the place
and secured admission by causing the doorbell to be rung.
There were six or seven rooms containing slot machines,
83583-28-13

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 I. S.

an ice box, tables, chairs and a cash register. The evidence shows that the place was used for retailing and
drinking intoxicating liquors. About a dozen men and
women were there and some of them were being furnished
intoxicating liquors. The petitioner was not there; Birdsall was in charge. The agents handed him the warrant
and put him under arrest. They searched for and found
large quantities of liquor, some of which was in a closet.
While in the closet, they noticed a ledger showing inventories of liquors, receipts, expenses, including gifts to
police officers, and other things relating to the business.
And they found beside the cash register a number of bills
against petitioner for gas, electric light, water and telephone service furnished on the premises. They seized
the ledger and bills. The return made on the search warrant showed only the seizure of the intoxicating liquors.,
It did not show the discovery or seizure of the ledger or
bills. After indictment and before trial, petitioner applied to the court for the return of the ledger and bills
and to suppress evidence concerning them. The application was denied. At the trial there was evidence to
show that petitioner made most of the entries in the
ledger and that he was concerned as proprietor or partner
in carrying on the business of selling intoxicating liquors.
It has long been settled that the Fifth Amendment protects every person against incrimination by the use of
evidence obtained through search or seizure made in violation of his rights under the Fourth Amendment. Agnello v. United States, 269 U. S. 20, 34, and cases cited.
The petitioner insists that because the ledger and bills
were not described in the warrant and as he was not arrested with them on his person, their seizure violated the
Fourth Amendment. The United States contends that
the seizure may be justified either as an incident to the
execution of the search warrant, or as an incident to the

MARRON v. UNITED STATES.
192

Opinion of the Court.

right of search arising from the arrest of Birdsall while
in charge of the saloon. Both questions are presented.
Lower courts have expressed divers views in respect of
searches in similar cases. The brief for the Government
states that the facts of this case present one of the most
frequent causes of appeals in current cases. And for these
reasons we deal with both contentions.
1. The Fourth Amendment declares that the right
to be secure against unreasonable searches shall not be
violated, and it further declares that "no Warrants shall
issue, but upon probable cause, supported by Oath or
affirmation, and particularly describing the place to be
searched and the persons or things to be seized." General searches have long been deemed to violate fundamental rights. It is plain that the Amnendment forbids
them. In Boyd v. United States, 116 U. S. 616, Mr.
Justice Bradley, writing for the court, said (p. 624):
"In order to ascertain the nature of the proceedings intended by the Fourth Amendment to the Constitution
under the terms 'unreasonable searches and seizures,' it
is only necessary to recall the contemporary or then recent history of the controversies on the subject, both in
this country and in England. The practice had obtained in the colonies of issuing writs of assistance to the
revenue officers, empowering them, in their discretion,
to search suspected places for smuggled goods, which
James Otis pronounced 'the worst instrument of arbitrary power, the most destructive of English liberty,
and the fundamental principles of law, that ever was
found in an English law book;' since they placed 'the
liberty of every man in the hands of every petty
officer.' " And in Weeks v. United States, 232 U. S. 383,
Mr. Justice Day, writing for the court, said (p. 391):
"The effect of the Fourth Amendment is to put the
courts of the United States and Federal officials, in the

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

exercise of their power and authority, under limitations
and restraints as to the exercise of such power and authority, and to forever secure the people, their persons,
houses, papers and effects against all unreasonable
searches and seizures under the guise of law. This protection reaches all alike, whether accused of crime or not,
and the duty of giving to, it force and effect is obligatory
upon all entrusted under our Federal system with the
enforcement of the laws. The tendency of those who
execute the criminal laws of the country to obtain conviction by means of unlawful seizures and enforced conshould find no sanction in the judgfessions
.
ments of the courts which are charged at all times with
the support of the Constitution and to which people of
all conditions have a right to appeal for the maintenance
of such fundamental rights."
The requirement that warrants shall particularly describe the things to be seized makes general searches
under them impossible and prevents the seizure of one
thing under a warrant describing another. As to what
is to be taken, nothing is left to the discretion of the
officer executing the warrant.
And the Congress in enacting the laws governing the
issue and execution of this search warrant was diligent
to limit seizures to things particularly described. Section 39 of Title 27, U. S. C., provides that such warrant
may issue as provided in Title 18, §§ 611 to 631 and
Section 613 provides that a search warrant can§ 633.
not be issued but upon probable cause, supported by affidavit naming or describing the person, and particularly
describing property and place to be searched. Section
*Section 25, Title II, Act of October 28, 1919, c. 85, 41 Stat. 305,
315, is § 39, Title 27, U. S. C. It provides that a search warrant
may issue as provided in Title XI of the Espionage Act (June 15,
1917), 40 Stat. 217, 228. Title XI is §§ 611 to 631 and § 633, Title

18, U. S. C.

MARRON v. UNITED STATES.
192

Opinion of the Court.

622 requires the officer executing the warrant to give to
the person in whose possession the property taken was
found a receipt specifying it in detail. Section 623 requires him forthwith to return the warrant to the judge
or commissioner with a verified inventory and detailed
account of the property taken. Section 624 gives the
person from whom the property is taken a right to have
a copy of the inventory. Section 626 provides that, if
it appears that the property or paper taken is not the
same as that described in the warrant, the judge or commissioner must cause it to be returned to the person from
whom it was taken. And § 631 provides for punishment of an officer who willfully exceeds his authority in
executing a search warrant.
The Government relies on Adams v. New York, 192
U. S. 585. That was a prosecution in a state court.
It involved no search or seizure under a law, or by an
officer, of the United States. Adams was convicted of
having gambling paraphernalia in violation of the Penal
Code of New York. It appeared that he occupied an
office where were his desk, trunk, tin boxes and other
articles. Officers came and stated that they had a
search warrant. He said it was not his office. They
arrested him, searched the place, found "policy slips,"
etc., and also papers relating to his private affairs. The
policy papers were introduced in evidence. There were
endorsements in his handwriting on some of them. Over
his objection, the private papers were received to furnish
specimens of his writing and to show that he occupied
the office. He had taken no steps to secure the return
of his private papers or to prevent their use as evidence.
But at the trial he contended their seizure violated his
right to be secure against unreasonable searches, and
that their use as evidence compelled him to be a witness
against himself in violation of the Fourth and Fifth
Amendments, and in violation of similar provisions of

198

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

the state constitution. The Court of Appeals (176 N.
Y. 351) held that the provisions of the Federal Constitution did not apply; that the use of the private papers as
evidence did not violate the state constitution; declared
that it expressed no opinion as to the seizure, and applied the rule that a court, when engaged in trying a
criminal case, will not take notice of the manner in
which the witnesses obtained papers offered in evidence.
And this court, assuming without deciding that the
Fourth and Fifth Amendments were applicable, held the
use of the private papers as evidence did not violate any
right safeguarded by these Amendments; and, after reference to the procedure at the trial, declared that
"courts do not stop to inquire as to the means by which
the evidence was obtained." The court did not decide
whether the seizure violated the Fourth Amendment.
It decided that the admission in evidence of the private
papers did not infringe the Fourth or Fifth Amendments. The case does not support the Government's
contention. And see Weeks v. United States, supra,394396; Silverthorne Lumber Co. v. United States, 251 U. S.
385, 392; Agnello v. United States, supra, 34. And it
is clear that the seizure of the ledger and bills, in the
case now under consideration, was not authorized by
the warrant. Cf. Kirvin v. United States, 5 F. (2d) 282,
285; United States v. Kirschenblatt, 16 F. (2d) 202;
Steele v. United States, 267 U. S. 498.
2. When arrested, Birdsall was actually engaged in a
conspiracy to maintain, and was actually in charge of, the
premises where intoxicating liquors were being unlawfully
sold. Every such place is by the National Prohibition
Act declared to be a common nuisance, the maintenance
of which is punishable by fine, imprisonment or both.
§ 21, Tit. II, Act of October 28, 1919, c. 85, 41 Stat. 305,
314 (U. S. C., Tit. 27, § 33). The officers were authorized
to arrest for crime being committed in their presence, and

STEELE v. DRUMMOND.
192

Syllabus.

they lawfully arrested Birdsall. They had a right without a warrant contemporaneously to search the place in
order to find and seize the things used to carry on the
criminal enterprise. Agnello v. United States, supra,30;
Carroll v. United States, 267 U. S. 132, 158; Weeks v.
United States, supra., 392. The closet in which liquor
and the ledger were found was used as a part of the saloon.
And, if the ledger was not as essential to the maintenance
of the establishment as were bottles, liquors and glasses,
it was none the less a part of the outfit or equipment
actually used to commit the offense. And, while it was
not on Birdsall's person at the time of his arrest, it was
in his immediate possession and control. The authority

of officers to search and seize the things by which the
nuisance was being maintained, extended to all parts of
the premises used for the unlawful purpose. Cf. Sayers
v. United States, 2 F. (2d) 146; Kirvin v. United States,
supra; United States v. Kirschenblatt, supra. The bills
for gas, electric light, water and telephone services disclosed items of expense; they were convenient, if not in
fact necessary, for the keeping of the accounts; and, as
they were so closely related to the business, it is not unreasonable to consider them as used to carry it on. It
follows that the ledger and bills were lawfully seized as
an incident of the arrest.
Judgment affirmed.
STEELE, EXECUTOR, v. DRUMMOND.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 60.

Argued October 20, 1927.-Decided November 21, 1927.

1. Review by certiorari will be confined to the question on which the
petition for the writ was based. P. 203.
2. It is only because of the dominant public interest that one who has
had the benefit of performance by the other party, is permitted to

