TEMCO CO. v. APCO CO.
310

Syllabus.

ruption and other derelictions of duty on the part of police
officers; the defendant was likewise a police officer; and
the sergeant, on making the search and seizure, informed
the defendant that he was acting in pursuance of his
regular duties. These facts were relied upon by the Government in both the trial and the appellate court. In the
Greenberg and Katz cases the situation was wholly different. The Court of Appeals, failing to note the difference,
treated its decision in the Schroeder case as controlling,
and did not give adequate consideration to the peculiar
relation borne in New York, then as now, by state officers
to federal prohibition enforcement, although the point
was made by the defendant and a decision thereon was
urgently sought by the United States Attorney.
The record in the case at bar does not show that the
relation between the state troopers and the federal agencies for prohibition enforcement was called by counsel to
the attention of the court. But as the conviction of these
defendants rests wholly upon evidence obtained by invasion of their constitutional rights, we are of opinion that
the judgment should be reversed and the case remanded
for further proceedings. Compare Wiborg v. United
States, 163 U. S. 632, 658-660; Clyatt v. United States,
197 U. S. 207, 221-222.
Reversed.
TEMCO ELECTRIC MOTOR COMPANY v. APCO
MANUFACTURING COMPANY.
CERTIORARI

TO THE

CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
FIFTH

No. 37.

THE

CIRCUIT.

Argued October 18, 1927.-Decided January 3, 1928.

1. Large public demand for, and commercial success of, a patented
article is evidence of invention. P. 324.
2. The specifications and drawings of a patent may be referred to a's
an aid in construing a claim. P. 330.

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Statement of the Case.

275 U. S.

3. A claim in a patent should be construed liberally, so as to uphold
and not destroy the right of the inventor. P. 330.
4. An improver who appropriates, without license, the basic patent
of another, is an infringer and suable as such. P. 328.
5. Patentee who applied for a second patent as an improvement
" over" the first, characterizing the new device as different in
mechanical construction and functional results, held not estopped
to insist on the old invention as against one who secured patent to
the improvement through interference proceedings. P. 328.
6. The Thompson patent, No. 1,072,791, issued September 9, 1913,
for a shock-absorber attachable to motor cars which have their
leaf springs above and along their axles and attached at the middle
to the car body above and at the ends to the axles near the wheels,
is valid, including claim No. 3, and is infringed by defendant's device, made under patent No. 1,279,035, granted to Storrie, September 17, 1918. P. 326.
The Thompson patent is for a combination of old elements, consisting (1) of a spiral spring, resting upon and in part guided by
(2) a stanchion, attached to the top of the axle near the wheel;
(3) a hanger bearing on the top of the spiral spring, in one form
encasing it, in another passing through it, capable of moving up
and down with the spring and attached below to (6) a link attached in turn to (7) the end of the leaf spring. The gist of the
invention (besides its peculiar application as a separable part to
the Ford car) is-in the arrangement of its parts, so that all shocks
and vibrations from the wheels are imparted first to the spiral
springs before reaching the leaf springs, and thus are the more
effectively absorbed or dampened due to the different responses of
the two kinds of springs.
7. The radius link employed in the Storrie patent is a mere improvement on the Thompson combination. P. 325.
11 F. (2d) 109, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 271 U. S. 653, to a decree of the Circuit
Court of Appeals which reversed a decree of the District
Court sustaining, on three claims, the above named petitioner's patent in its suit for infringement. Another of
the patent claims, No. 3, was held void by the District
Court, a ruling which was sustained by the court below
on petitioner's cross appeal.

TEMCO CO. v. APCO CO.
319

Opinion of the Court.

Messrs. H. A. Toulmin and H. A. Toulmin, Jr., with
whom Messrs. J. J. Spalding, H. MacDougald and J. A.
Sibley were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. Clifford L. Anderson, with whom Messrs. James A.
Branch and Moseley A. Keller were on the brief, for
respondent.
MR. CHIEF JUSTIcE TAFT

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The Temco Electric Company, a corporation of the
State of Ohio, filed this bill in equity against the Apco
Manufacturing Company, a corporation of the State, of
Rhode Island, charging that the Apco Company had
wronged the Temco Company by infringement of a patent
for a shock absorber fitted for a Ford motor car, issued to
Ralph P. and Win. S. Thompson, assignors of one-third
to Oliver P. Edwards, and assigned by them to the Temco
Company and owned by it. The Apco Company answered denying the validity of the patent and its infringement, averring that it was inoperative and that the shock
absorber which the Apeo Company was making was made
under a patent to one William Storrie, applied for March
18th, granted September 17, 1918, 'and numbered
1,279,035. The answer further set out the names of certain patents which were said to be anticipations of the
patent upon which the suit was brought.
The district court held that the patent was a very narrow patent, and that claim No. 3 was invalid because it
lacked words of description enough to make it operative.
Deferring, however, to the decision of the district judges
and of the Circuit Court of Appeals of the Sixth Circuit,
it sustained three other claims of the patent but declined
to grant a preliminary injunction. Though of opinion that
the infringement had not been shown, nevertheless it en83583 -28-21

322

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

tered a decree in favor of the appellee out of deference to
two decisions of the Circuit Court of Appeals, K-W Ignition Company v. Temco Electric Motor Company, 243
Fed. 588, and the same case reported again in 283 Fed.
873. The Circuit Court of Appeals of the Fifth Circuit
declined to follow the two decisions, of the Circuit Court
of Appeals of the Sixth Circuit, and reversed the judgment
of the district court. There had been a cross appeal
brought by the appellee to reverse the district court in its
holding that the third claim was invalid, and that cross
appeal was denied, 11 Fed. (2d) 109. The case has
been brought here by certiorari. 271 U. S. 653.
The patent sued on was issued to Ralph P. Thompson
and William S. Thompson, of Leipsic, Ohio, assignors of
one-third to Oliver P. Edwards, of Leipsic, Ohio. The
application was filed October 10, 1912, and the patent was
issued September 9, 1913, and numbered 1,072,791, and
has since been assigned by the patentees to the Temco
Company. The object of the patentees was to provide a
shock absorber which would make riding in an automobile
easy. They professed to accomplish this by supplying a
set of quick-acting coiled springs in connection with the
set of slow-acting and friction-retarded leaf springs originally built into -the vehicle. The compression and recoil
of the two sets of springs occurred at different times, in
consequence of which their respective pulsations were not
synchronous. The result was said, in the specifications,
to be that the shock to the road wheel and axle was first
absorbed by the coiled spring, and therefrom was transmitted to the body of the car and to the occupants through
the slow-acting leaf spring. As the compression and recoil
of the leaf spring were not the same as those of the coiled
spring, the recoil of the coiled spring began to take place
before the full effect of the shock to the road wheel could
be transmitted through the leaf spring. This see-sawing
action, as it were, between the quick-acting coiled spring

TEMCO CO. v. APCO CO.
319

323

Opinion of the 'Court.

and the slow-acting leaf spring, the' specifications said,
caused a large portion of the effect from vibrations to be
nullified by the action of one and reaction of the other
of these springs taking place simultaneously, thus absorbing within the spring element the sharper vibrations.
The device was intended to be specially adapted for attachment to Ford automobiles. Its availability was
claimed to be such that the owner of a Ford car, without
the services of a mechanic and without disturbing the
operation or construction of the car, might, with slight
instruction, remove the usual hanger which supported
each end of each leaf spring and insert in its stead the
plaintiff's attachment.
The absorber consisted of an upright metal guide, whose
lower end was rigidly attached to the car axle, and provided a platform for the lower end of a coiled or torsion
spring, inclosed in a cylindrical metal casing or hanger,
bearing against and supported by the upper end of the
coiled spring, and so capable of upward and downward
sliding movement on the guides, the stanchions or guides
being adapted to maintain the vertical direction of the
sliding movement of the absorber or torsional spring, and
to limit the end movements of the leaf springs along the
axle.
When the patent was issued there was a great demand
to purchase the device and use it, and under the patentees,
or under the K-W Ignition Company, which had a contract with the patentees, there were made and sold upwards of 134,000 sets of the shock absorbers, and about
$2,250,000 was from time to time paid to the patentees
for these absorbers, so that from 1912 for ten years or more
a very large business was done in the sale and use of the
patented device. There was litigation over it, especially
in the districts of the Sixth Circuit, where the validity of
the patent was generally sustained, the first case having
been heard by a former Justice of this Court while a dis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

trict judge of the Northern District of Ohio. His opinion
is recorded in the record. The case involved not only
the validity of the patent, which after some hesitation he
sustained because of its general adoption and success, but
also presented a question whether the defendants in that
case, the K-W Ignition Company, were not so bound by
contract with the patentees as to estop them from defending against the patent. The district judge held, however,
that the contract had expired and the obligations growing
out of it had also expired, so that the issue tried was that
of the validity of the patent. The district court's decree
was affirmed by the Court of Appeals and the case was sent
back for an accounting, and an accounting was had against
the defendant in that case and a judgment given for
$292,938 against the K-W Ignition Company, which was a
defendant there. In the present suit the bill set up this
litigation in Ohio as evidence of the validity of the patent,
but a straight issue of validity was also made and all the
defenses known were advanced.
The district judge in Ohio in the K-W Ignition case was
affected in his decision, that the Thompson patent involved invention, by the way in which the public eagerly
took it and its marked success, and so, indeed, was the
Circuit Court of Appeals of the Sixth Circuit. So are we.
The attack now made upon the patent is that it has
been proved to be ineffective by ten years' actual use, some
injuries to the shock absorbers resulting from striking
of the parts of the motor machine against the metal guides
and cylindrical metal hangers in which the torsional spring
is moved up and down. It appears that the real owners
of the patent, realizing that there were defects in the
operation of the absorber that should be remedied, applied
to the Patent Office for a patent which should substitute
for the stanchions or guides, on which the hanger around
the torsional spring moved up and down in a vertical
direction, a fixed radius link. The torsional spring of the

TEMCO CO. v. APCO CO.
319

325

Opinion of the Court.

patent enclosed within the casing or hanger attached to
the upright guide did not, in moving or sliding up and
down, retain a vertical direction but was sometimes tilted
over by the weight of the car and its load. The change
proposed, in regard to this, was that while the spring
should be placed outside the upright or stanchion at the
bottom of the spring, the upright stem or guide or stanchion inside the spring should be maintained in a vertical
position by the addition of a radius link united to another
by a toggle joint which fixed the guide rigidly and would
hold the coil spring up permanently in a vertical position.
This permitted a widening of the coil spring at the bottom
so as to make it conical and gave the spring more stability
in its vertical position. The difference between a conical
coil spring and one that is not conical does not make the
two structures different in any respect but in degree of
stability only.
The proposal of the plaintiff patentees to remove a defect by the substitution of the radius link for the metal
guide and casing and hanger led to an interference proceeding with one William Storrie who claimed to have hit
upon this change first, and in that interference proceeding
in the Patent Office, Storrie was given a patent for the
absorber with that radius link. Except for the radius
link there is no difference in operation and result. The
springs in a Ford car equipped with the defendant's device
receive the shocks in the same order, operate in the same
manner and produce the same results as those in a Ford
car on which the springs of the plaintiff's patent are used.
The function which the casing of the torsional spring and
the hanger perform is exactly the same as that of the
torsional spring and the radius link introduced in the
Storrie patent under which the answer and the facts show
the defendant's device was licensed and operates.
Storrie as patentee said in his specifications that his
invention related to means for absorbing the vibrations

326

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

and shocks in vehicle springs to such an extent as not to
cause annoyance to the rider and strain to the springs of
the vehicle, which would tend to cause such springs to
crack or otherwise become disabled; that the invention
provided a shock absorber embodying an expansible helical
spring and supporting means therefor of novel formation,
one of such supports being secured to the axle and the
other being shackled or otherwise attached to the vehicle
spring, the parts being arranged to control the vibrations
or shocks not taken up quick enough by the main spring
and thereby overcome the objectionable features therein
mentioned. And then follow twelve different claims,
most of which refer to a radius link pivoted to the support between the torsional spring and the main or laminated spring of the vehicle.
The claim made for the invention is that the real gist
of it is in the arrangement of the parts, all of which were
old, so that the first vibration and shock would be taken
up from the axle by the torsional spring, and then, having
been divided up into vibrations, would be communicated
through the torsional spring and the absorber to the leaf
spring and "dampened down," as the expression is, by
its slower action, so as really to take up and absorb and
make to disappear the shocks otherwise directly communicated from the road and the axle to the leaf spring. It is
argued that, as these were all old parts, there was nothing
new in the patent. We have examined the art with a view
to considering that particular point. We think that the
theory, that the Thompson patent had and has its real
value in the function of the torsional spring directly to
take up all the vibrations from the road and axle and
quickly to divide them for the dampening effect of the
slow moving leaf spring of the car, was a sound one.
There have been citations of early patents showing previous attempts of the same kind, but we have not been
pointed to one in which .the torsional spring was so

TEMCO CO. v. APCO CO.
319

Opinion of the Court.

arranged as to take all the road vibrations and divide
them up before reaching the main car spring, except those
which have come after the Thompson original patent.
This is true of the Bussing, whether German, English or
French patents, the Peugeot patent and the Cosset patent.
It is true that by taking some of these structures or devices,
notably the Bussing English patent, it may be possible to
show how, by turning over on its back the specified device,
the torsional spring could be made partly and ineffectively
to perform this function, but as described in this or other
cited patents there is no suggestion or recommendation of
the arrangement in Thompsons'. They-all of themuse the main or leaf spring to take directly all or part of
the vibrations from the axle and rely on the torsional
spring to soften vibrations after they have passed or are
passing through the main spring. The leaf spring in the
Warner patent not only takes the greater road shocks
directly but the entire spring arrangement is primarily
built and put in at the factory while the axle is split into
two parts, and the device is not made a separate or separable part, a feature which is an important and needed
advantage to adapt the absorber to use in a Ford car.
We may properly note, 'as bearing upon the issue
whether there was something substantial in the elaborated
claim of the Thompson specifications, that the defendant
below called as a witness Mr. Storrie and that upon cross
examination he said that the defendant's device was within
the Storrie patent, and he made it clear that without the
torsional spring to divide and neutralize the vibrations
from the axle and ground, the good effect of the leaf spring
to " dampen out" the vibrations from the road could
not be gained.
With respect to the Storrie patent, it is said that the
patent in suit is not broad enough to justify an allowance
of equivalents which would make the radius link an equivalent to the casing and hanger of the Thompson absorber.

328

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

It is urged that if it is not an equivalent, it is at least an
improvement on the Thompson patent in suit and that
this is what Thompson was seeking when the interference
proceedings were had. It was upon that theory, that the
Storrie patent was an improvement on the Thompson
patent, that the Circuit Court of Appeals of the Sixth
Circuit in the suit between the Temco Company and the
K. W. Ignition Company decided that it could allow
only recovery for royalties and not for profits, 283 Fed.
873, 876, 877. It is well established that an improver
can not appropriate the basic patent of another and that
the improver without a license is an infringer and may
be sued as such. Cochrane v. Deener, 94 U. S. 780, 787;
Cantrellv. Wallick, 117 U. S. 689, 694; Yancey v. Enright,
230 Fed. 641, 647; Reed v. Hughes Tool Company, 261
Fed. 192, 194.
We cannot concur with the district judge in this case
or with the Circuit Court of Appeals of the Fifth Circuit
in the conclusion that there was no merit in this patent,
when its usefulness was demonstrated by ten years' use
in such large numbers and by such profitable business.
We must consider that the Storrie patent was really an
appropriation of the original design of the Thompson
patent whether it be, as we think it was, a patentable
improvement thereon or the mere equivalent of the casing
and hanger.
It is argued that an estoppel works as against the
Temco Company by the action of one of the Thompsons,
an assignor of its patent, because, in applying for the
second patent in what turned out to be the interference
proceeding, he had said that the radius link device which
was applied for related to an improvement "over" the
construction disclosed in the original patent granted to
them. If Thompson had said it was an improvement
"upon" it would have been satisfactory, but the word
over" is supposed to indicate that he was making an

TEMCO CO. v. APCO CO.
319

Opinion of the Court.

application for a different patent. This is too fine a turn
in language. In attempting to distinguish the new invention which he was seeking to have patented, he had said
that the claims of the new patent were "obviously different in mechanical construction and functional results."
This is said to estop the plaintiff from claiming that the
Storrie radius link, which won in the interference proceeding, is only an improvement on the patent in suit as
the basic patent upon which the Storrie patent was an
improvement. But it was said in the Thompson application for a second patent in the Patent Office that the
invention sought was of the general type disclosed, possessing certain advantages not possessed by the construction of the prior patent, and it was specifically stated
therein that the radius link form was an improvement
over a construction disclosed in the first Thompson patent,
No. 1,072,791.
We have had to depend for knowledge of the contents
of .the application by Thompson for his second patent on
the quotations in the briefs. This record has been so
badly prepared and so much has been omitted in the
printing that we should really reject the argument by the
defendants as to estoppel altogether because the record
as printed contains nothing upon which it can be based.
The district court and the Circuit Court of Appeals in
this case held that claim No. 3 of the patent in suit was
void because inoperative and having no description upon
which it could be properly used as a claim. The claim is
as follows:
"In automobile construction, wherein coiled springs are
used auxiliary to leaf springs for absorbing shock to the
road wheels, the combination of upright stanchions with
the axle of the ground wheels, said stanchions being attached to the outer ends of said axle, leaf springs extending above the axle and between the stanchions, and
supporting the chassis frame, the said stanchions being

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

adapted to limit the end motion of the leaf springs and
thereby prevent side sway of the chassis frame, hangers
for the outer ends of said leaf springs, said hangers having
a vertical movement and being guided therein by said
stanchions, and coiled springs interposed between said leaf
spring hangers and said axle of the ground wheels."
The district court in its opinion said: "For want of any
statement as to how the leaf spring and helical spring are
to be connected to and guided by the stanchions, I think
Claim 3 is incomplete and void."
The Circuit Court of Appeals of the Fifth Circuit said
of the claim: "Appellee [the petitioner] has filed a crossappeal and insists that the claim which the district court
disallowed is valid. That claim is about as vague as it
could be made. As pointed out by the district judge it
fails to specify the means by which the leaf and helical
springs can be connected to and guided by the stanchion.
To sustain a claim as general as this is would be to allow
a patent for a 'result and not for the mechanism producing it '."
Reading the claim with the specifications and the drawings, which are both clear (Howe Machine Co. v. National
Needle Co., 134 U. S. 388, 394) its addition to the combination of coiled springs interposed between the leaf spring
hangers having vertical movement and guided by stanchions, comprehends the link as shown in the drawings, or
any suitable connection between each leaf spring and its
hanger and casing surrounding the coiled spring which is
interposed between the leaf spring and the axle and
ground wheel. It does not seem to us that the claim is
vague; nor do we find nullifying incompleteness in it.
Turrill v. Railroad Company, 1 Wall. 491, 510; Rubber
Company v. Goodyear, 9 Wall. 788, 795; McClain v. Ortmayer, 141 U. S. 419, 425; Walker on Patents (5th ed.)
ยง 185. Neither did the Court of Appeals of the Sixth Circuit, nor did the district courts of that circuit so find.

RICHMOND CO. v. UNITED STATES.
319

331

Syllabus.

Our conclusion requires a reversal of the decree of the
Circuit Court of Appeals including its ruling on the cross
appeal as to claim No. 3 and a remanding of the case to
the district court for further proceedings in accord with
this opinion.
Reversed.
RICHMOND SCREW ANCHOR COMPANY v.
UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF CLAIMS

No. 99. Argued December 1, 1927.-Decided January 3, 1928.
1. Patent No. 1,228,120, issued May 29, 1917, to Lenke for a cargo
beam capable of moving on a horizontal axis so as to present its
full strength in the line of stress, thus permitting the use of less
metal than was required for the fixed beam of the prior art, and
saving expense in installation-held valid. P. 339.
2. Where two reasons are given in an opinion for the same decision,
neither is obiter dictum. P. 340.
3. Rev. Stat. ยง 3477, forbidding assignments of claims against the
United States prior to allowance, liquidation and issuance of a
warrant for payment, applied to claims for infringement of a.
patent. P. 340.
4. The right to recover for past infringement of a patent by a private
party is assignable with the patent. P. 344.
5. Under the Act of June 25, 1910, where a patented article was made
for the United States by a contractor, unauthorized by the patent
owner, and used by the United States, the patent owner had an
assignable right of action for the infringement against the contractor; and a claim against the United States for reasonable compensation for the use, assertable in the Court of Claims, but subject
to the provisions of Rev. Stats. ยง 3477 forbidding assignments.
Pp. 341, 344, 346.
6. Under the Act of July 1, 1918, which did away with the remedy
against the contractor in such cases, and confined the patent owner
to a suit against the United States in the Court of Claims for
" recovery of his reasonable and entire compensation for such use
and manufacture," the claim of the patent owner against the

