NEWS SYNDICATE CO. v. N. Y. C. R. R.

179

Syllabus.

NEWS SYNDICATE COMPANY v. NEW YORK
CENTRAL RAILROAD COMPANY ET AL.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SEVENTH CIRCUIT.

No. 235.

Argued October 5, 6, 1927.-Decided November 21, 1927.

1. Where a railroad of the United States and a railroad of the
Dominion of Canada unite in the publication of a joint through
rate from a point within the Dominion of Canada to a point within
the United States, the rate covering transportation both in Canada
and in the United States, the Interstate Commerce Commission
has jurisdiction, on complaint of a shipper or consignee made
against the United States railroad alone, to determine the reasonableness of such joint through rate, for the ascertainment of
damages. P. 186.
2. Where a shipper or consignee of freight shipped to it at a destination in the United States from such point in the Dominion
of Canada has paid at destination to the United States railroad
the full published joint through freight rate thereon, the Interstate
Commerce Commission, upon a finding by it that such joint
through rate was unreasonable and unjust, but in the absence of a
finding that the charges for the transportation in so far as it took
place within the United States were unjust and unreasonable, has
jurisdiction to make an order for the payment of damages to such
shipper or consignee in the amount that the entire transportation
charges on the basis of the joint through freight rate exceeded the
charges which would have been assessed on the basis of the joint
through freight rate found by the Commission to have been
reasonable. P. 187.
3. When the Interstate Commerce Commission has made such an
order against the United States carrier alone for the payment of
damages arising from its finding of the unreasonableness of such
published joint through rate, a suit thereon can be maintained
solely against the United States carrier. P. 188.
4. An inquiry from the Circuit Court of Appeals (Jud. Code § 239)
which is not specific or confined to any distinct question or proposition of law, need not be answered. P. 188.

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for the News Syndicate Co.

275 U. S.

RESPONSE to questions propounded by the Circuit
Court of Appeals on review of a judgment from the
District Court dismissing a suit on a reparation order.

Mr. Luther M. Walter, with whom Messrs. John S.
Burchmore and Nuel D. Belnap were on the brief, for
the News Syndicate Co.
Congress has power to make carriers operating in the
United States and subject to its laws liable for damages
resulting from the exaction of an unreasonable joint
through rate maintained by the joint action of American and Canadian lines and applied to a transportation
service rendered from a point in Canada to a point in
the United States. Gibbons v. Ogden, 9 Wheat. 1.
The Interstate Commerce Commission has uniformly
upheld its own jurisdiction to award reparation for damages resulting from the application of an unreasonable
joint through rate from a point in Canada to a point in
the United States. Baer Bros. Mercantile Co. v. Denver
& R. G. R. R. Co., 233 U. S. 479; 15 Ruling Case Law, 124,
130; Internat. Nickel Co. v. Director General, 66 I. C. C.
627; Broedel-Donovan Lumber Mills v. Director General,
68 I. C. C. 96; American Cyanamid Co. v. Director Generlal, 69 I. C. C. 337; Arnhold Brothers v. DirectorGeneral,
69 I. C. C. 685; United States Graphite Co. v. Director
General, 88 I. C. C. 157; Texas & Pacific R. R. Co. v.
Abilene Cotton Oil Co., 204 U. S. 426; Southern Pacific
v. Railroad Commission, 194 Cal. 734.
The courts have repeatedly construed the Interstate
Commerce Act as applying to commerce between the
United States and foreign countries. United States v.
Grand Trunk Ry., 225 Fed. 283; Galveston, H. & San
Antonio Ry. v. Woodbury, 254 U. S. 357; Western Union
v. Esteve Brothers & Co., 256 U. S. 566; Armour & Co. v.
United Sfates, 153 Fed. 1; aff'd. 209 U. S. 56.
The Commission and the courts can compel the payment of damages by carriers operating within the United

NEWS SYNDICATE CO. v. N. Y. C. R. R.
179

181

Argument for the Railroad Company.

States, even though the Canadian carriers can not be
reached. Louisville & Nashville R. Co. v. Sloss-Sheffield
S. & I. Co., 269 U. S. 217; Internat. Nickel Co. v. Director
General, 66 I. C. C. 627; I. C. C. v. L. & N. R. R. Co., 118
Fed. 613.
The jurisdiction of the Commission does not depend
on the form of rate publication. C., N. 0. & T. P. R. R.
v. I. C. C., 162 U. S. 184; Illinois Central v. I. C. C., 206
U. S. 441; Minneapolis & St. Louis Ry. v. Minnesota, ex
rel. Railroad & Warehouse Commission, 186 U. S. 257;
Elkins Act, 32 Stat. 847; 34 Stat. 584.
The joint through rate was carried in tariffs lawfully
on file with the Commission, and shippers could not lawfully pay any other or different rate. Interstate Commerce Act, § 6, Par. 7; Elkins Act, § 1, 32 Stat. 847; 34
Stat. 584; United States v. Grand Trunk Railway, 225
Fed. 283; Galveston, Harrisburg & San Antonio,Ry. Co.
v. Woodbury, 254 U. S. 357; Armour & Co. v. United
States, 209 U. S. 56.
The whole amount by which the joint through rate
was unreasonable accrued to the carriers operating within the United States in excess of the amount which
would have accrued to said carriers if the rate found
reasonable by the Commission had been in effect.
Mr. Parker McCollester, with whom Mr. F. D. McKenney was on the brief, for The New York Central
Railroad Company.
Section 13 of Interstate Commerce Act provides for
complaint only "of anything done

.

.

.

in contra-

vention of the provisions" of the Act.
Sections 15 and 16 of Interstate Commerce Act authorize Commission to make findings and orders only with
respect to violations of provisions of the Act.
A statute cannot ordinarily have extraterritorial effect.
Gal., H. & S. A. Ry. v. Wallace, 223 U. S. 481; N. Y. Cent.
R. R. v. Chisholm, 268 U. S. 29.

182

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for the Railroad Company.

275 U. S.

Application of the Act's provisions with respect to
transportation between United States and a foreign
country is limited to transportation " only in so far as
such transportation . . . takes places within the
United States." § 1.
That the rate for through transportation from a point
in Canada to a point in the United States is published
as a joint through rate, rather than as separate charges
for the portions of the transportation on both sides of
the international boundary, does not operate to extend
the Commission's jurisdiction. The Commission would
not have jurisdiction of through rate if portion for
Canadian part of transportation were separately published.
That the portion of joint rate covering.transportation
in the United States is not separately shown in tariffs,
does not prevent Commission from determining reasonableness thereof when facts as to such portion of the
charge are presented to it. The Commission exercises
similar authority in determining reasonableness of divisions under Section 15 of Interstate Commerce Act.
New England Divisions Case, 261 U. S. 184.
The Commission has itself recognized this limitation
of the application of the Act and of its jurisdiction, except
in recent reparation cases. Payment of Charges, 59
I. C. C. 263; Int. Paper Co. v. D. & H. Co., 33 I. C. C.
270; Carey Co. v. G. T. W. Ry. Co., 36 I. C. C. 203;
Carlowitz & Co. v. C. P. Ry. Co., 46 I. C. C. 290; Good
v. G. N. Ry. Co., 48 I. C. C. 435; Eastern Car Co. v. C. G.
Ry., 511. C. C. 627; Booth Fisheries Co. v. Am. Exp. Co.,
53 I. C. C. 735; American Cyanamid Co. v. Director General, 69 I. C. C. 337; Southern Acid etc. Co. v. A. &
N. M. Ry. Co., 74 I. C. C. 641; Eliminationfrom Certain
Routes, 115 I. C. C. 609; Rates on Petroleum, I. & S.
Docket No. 2871.

NEWS SYNDICATE CO. v. N. Y. C. R. R.
179

183

Argument for the Railroad Company.

The only two classes of cases in which the Commission
has attempted to deal with joint through rates to or
from a foreign country are, first, cases in which it has
ordered American carriers to cease from joining in rates
believed by it to be unreasonable (Publishers' Assoc. v.
B. & 0. R. R. Co., 98 I. C. C. 339; Pulp & Paper Mills,
Ltd. v. A. & W. Ry. Co., 120 I. C. C. 251), and second,
cases in which it has awarded reparation to basis of lower
joint through rates. Int. Nickel Co. v. Director General,
66 I. C. C. 627.
The Commission's authority to make a reparation order
depends upon a determination by it of a violation of the
Interstate Commerce Act, and only to the extent of the
damages caused by such violation.
Section 8 of the Act imposes liability on a carrier only
for damages caused by violation of its provisions. Louisville & Nashville R. R. v. Sloss-Sheffield Company, 269
U. S. 217; Atlantic Coast Line v. Riverside Mills, 219 U. S.
186.
The Commission has held itself without jurisdiction to
award damages where conduct complained of did not violate the act. Rosser & Fitch v. A. C. L. R. R. Co., 91
I. C. C. 611; National Traffic League v. A. & R. R. R. Co.,
61 I. C. C. 120; Guyton & HarringtonCo. v. L. & N. R. R.
Co., 50 I. C. C. 546; Bus Co. v. N. Y. C. R. R. Co.; 45
I. C. C. 161; Atlas PortlandCement Co. v. L. V. R. R. Co.,
32 I. C. C. 487.
Since Section 1 of the Interstate Commerce Act limits
the application of the provisions of the Act to transportation from Canada in so far as such transportation takes
place within the United States, a determination that
joint through rate covering the entire transportation is
unreasonable is not a determination of a violation of the
Act.
The difference between the functions of the Commission in awarding reparation and in prescribing rates for

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

the future, pointed out in decision in Baer Brothers v.
Denver & R. G. R. R., 233 U. S. 479, does not sustain
difference in territorial extent of Commission's authority
in the two classes of cases.
A finding of a violation of the Act is a prerequisite to
an order prescribing rates for the future, as well as to an
order for reparation. I. C. C. v. L. & N. R. R. Co., 227
U. S. 88; Wichita R. R. v. Pub. Util. Comm., 260
U. S. 48..
If, as is conceded, the Commission could not in advance have prescribed lower rates to be charged on shipments here involved, it is inconsistent to hold that after
shipments have moved it can accomplish same result
and effect a retroactive reduction of rates by a reparation
order. N. Y. Cent. R. R. v. N. Y. & Penna. Co., 271
U. S. 124.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Plaintiff in error sued for amounts of reparation
awarded by the Interstate Commerce Commission. Defendants in error demurred to the complaint, asserting
that it failed to state a cause of action, and that the Commission's order was void for want of jurisdiction because
it dealt solely with charges for transportation from a point
in Canada to a point in the United States. The district
court sustained the demurrer and gave judgment of dismissal. The case was taken to the Circuit Court of Appeals; and, after hearing the parties, that court certified
certain questions concerning which it desires instructions
for the proper decision of the cause. § 239, Judicial Code.
U. S. C. Tit. 28, § 346.
The certificate shows that, June 28, 1923, plaintiff in
error complained to the Interstate Commerce Commission
against defendants in error and others that during the
preceding two years it shipped numerous carloads of news-

NEWS SYNDICATE CO. v. N. Y. C. R. R.
179

185

Opinion of the Court.

print paper from Thorold, Ontario, to New York City, and
bore charges exacted by defendants in error based on
through rates of 37 cents per hundredweight prior to July
1, 1922, and 33.5 cents thereafter, and that these rates and
the portions thereof applicable to the* transportation
within the United States were excessive, unduly discriminatory and unjustly prejudicial in violation of the
Interstate Commerce Act; that the Commission found the
rate in force between August 26, 1920, and July 1, 1922,
unreasonable to the extent it exceeded 32 cents and the
rate thereafter applied unreasonable to the extent that it
exceeded 29.5 cents, and that plaintiff in error suffered
damages in respect of its shipments after July 2, 1921, in
the amounts by which the charges were so found to be unreasonable and was entitled to reparation from the carriers that "engaged in the transportation of those shipments within the United States."
The reports of the Commission set out in the certificate
(95 I. C. C. 66; 102 I. C. C. 365) show that Thorold is a
place in Ontario on the Canadian National Railways 30
miles from Black Rock, New York, where connection is
made with the New York Central, the Delaware, Lackawanna and Western and other lines, and 12 miles from
Suspension Bridge, New York, where connection is made
with the New York Central, Lehigh Valley and other lines,
and that Black Rock is 414 miles and Suspension Bridge
is 447 miles from New York City. The rates complained
of applied over several railroads from each of these junctions. No rates were made or published for the transportation from the international boundary to New York
City. The Commission did not determine what would be
just and reasonable rates for this transportation.
The questions certified follow.
" 1. Where a railroad of the United States and a railroad of the Dominion of Canada unite in the publication

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

of a joint through rate from a point within the Dominion
of Canada to a point within the United States, the rate
covering transportation both in Canada and in the United
States, has the Interstate Commerce Commission of the
United States 'jurisdiction, on complaint of a shipper or
consignee made against the United States railroad alone,
to determine the reasonableness of such joint through
rate?
"2. Where a shipper or consignee of freight shipped to
it at a destination in the United States from such point
in the Dominion of Canada has paid at destination to the
United States railroad the full published joint through
freight rate thereon, has the Interstate Commerce Commission, upon a finding by it that such joint through rate
was unreasonable and unjust, but in the absence of a finding that the charges for the transportation in so far as
it took place within the United States were unjust and
unreasonable, jurisdiction to make an order for the payment of damages to such shipper or consignee in the
amount that the entire transportation charges on the basis
of the joint through freight rate exceeded the charges
which would have been assessed on the basis of the joint
through freight rate found by the Commission to have
been reasonable?
"3. When the Interstate Commerce Commission has
made such an order against the United States carrier
alone for the payment of damages arising from its finding of the unreasonableness of such published joint
through rate, can a suit thereon, under section 16 of the
Interstate Commerce Act, be maintained solely against
the United States carrier?
"4. Did the District Court err in sustaining the demurrer to the said petition?"
As to question 1.-The Interstate Commerce Act applies to the lines that carried, and to the transportation
of, the paper from the international boundary to New

NEWS SYNDICATE CO. v. N. Y. C. R. R.
179

187

Opinion of the Court.

York City. § 1 (1) and (2).* It was the duty of defendants in error to establish just and reasonable rates
for that service. § 1 (5), § 6 (1) and (7). They failed
to make or publish any rate applicable to that part of
the transportation. Section 8 makes them liable for
damages sustained in consequence of such failure. Had
the through rate been just and reasonable, no damages
would have resulted to plaintiff in error. Its right to
reparation does not depend upon the amounts retained
by defendants in error pursuant to agreed divisions.
Louisville & Nashville R. R. v. Sloss-Sheffield Co., 269
U. S.217, 231. Their breach of the statutory duty was
a proximate cause of the losses complained of. The failure to establish rates covering the transportation from
the international boundary contravened the provisions
of the Act and compelled plaintiff in error to pay the
through charges complained of. The Commission had
jurisdiction to determine whether plaintiff in error was
entitled to an "award of damages under the provisions
of this Act for a violation thereof." § 16 (1). And it
was the duty of the Commission to ascertain the damages sustained. It is obvious that, in the ascertainment
of damages, the Commission had jurisdiction to determine the reasonableness of the charges exacted.
As to question 2.-The Commission did not specifically find whether the portions of the charges fairly attributable to transportation' within the United States
were excessive to the extent that the through rates were
found unreasonable. While the findings seem to indicate that the Commission held the entire excess should
be charged against the American lines, we shall consider
the question on the basis therein stated. The Canadian
lines furnishing the transportation from Thorold to the
international boundary were not before the Commission
*United

States Code, Title 49, chapter 1, contains the Interstate

Commerce Act, preserving the section numbers.

188

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Syllabus.

275 U. S.

and were not sued. The defendants in error participated in the making of the through rate and actually
collected the excessive charges. By their failure to
comply with the Act, plaintiff in error was compelled to
pay charges based on the through rates. On the facts
stated, the Commission was authorized to hear the complaint, § 13 (1), and had jurisdiction to make the order.
§ 16 (1). The question should be answered in the
affirmative.
As to question 3.-The statement of the case and what
has been said as to questions 1 and 2 make it plain that
this question should be answered in the affirmative.
As to question 4.-Section 239 authorizes the Circuit
Court of Appeals to certify to this court "any questions
or propositions of law concerning which instructions are
desired for the proper decision of the cause." It is wellsettled that this statute does not authorize the lower
court to make, or require this court to accept, a transfer
of the case. The inquiry calls for decision of the whole
case. It is not specific or confined to any distinct question or proposition of law, and therefore need not be
answered. The Folmina, 212 U. S. 354, 363; United
States v. Bailey, 9 Pet. 267, 273-274; United States v.
Mayer, 235 U. S. 55, 66, and cases cited.
Question 1 is answered " Yes, for the ascertainment of damages."
Question 2 is answered "Yes."
Question 3 is answered " Yes."
Question 4 is not answered.
ATWATER & COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 17.

Submitted October 12, 1927.-Decided November 21, 1927.

1. Mere delays in crediting the owner with coal pooled in a coal exchange in obedience to an order made under the Lever Act for the

