OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Counsel for Parties.

275 U. S.

As we do not pass upon the question whether the Board
of Tax Appeals had jurisdiction of the appeal, excepi
insofar as it is involved in our decision that the determinations of the Commissioner under §§ 327 and 328 are
subject to review by the Board, the decree will be so
modified as to be without prejudice to the petitioner's
presenting in any appropriate manner to the Board or
the Supreme Court of the District the questions whether
the Board of Tax Appeals had in other respects jurisdiction of the appeal as to the tax for 1918 and, if not, to
what extent the information called for by the subpoena
is relevant and admissible upon the hearing of the appeal
as to the tax for 1919.
Affirmed as modified.
TUCKER v. ALEXANDER, COLLECTOR.

.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 167.
In a suit
plaintiff
Stats. §
was not

Argued October 7, 1927.-Decided November 21, 1927.
to recover a tax brought against a Collector after the
has filed a claim for refund, made prerequisite by Rev.
3226, the objection that the ground of recovery relied on
sufficiently specified in the claim as required by Treasury

Regulations and the statute, is an objection that may be waived by
stipulation of the parties. P. 230.
15 F. (2d) 356, reversed.

CERTIORARI,

273 U. S. 689, to a judgment of the Cir-

cuit Court of Appeals which affirmed a judgment of the
District Court against the petitioner in a suit to recover
a tax from the respondent Collector.
Mr. Charles H. Garnett for petitioner.
Solicitor General Mitchell, with whom Messrs. A. W.
Gregg, General Counsel, and F. W. Dewart, Special At-

TUCKER v. ALEXANDER.
228

229

Opinion of the Court.

torney, Bureau of Internal Revenue, were on the brief,
for respondent, presented the case in deference to the
views of the court below.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
Petitioner, from March 1, 1913, and in 1920, was the
owner of shares of stock in a corporation which in the
latter year was dissolved and liquidated. A distribution
of some portion of its assets to the stockholders had been
made in May, 1913. The Commissioner of Internal
Revenue taxed as income on dissolution the difference
between the value of the property received by petitioner
as a liquidating dividend, and the value of his stock on
March 1, 1913, less the value of the distribution of May,
1913, which was treated as a return of capital. Petitioner paid the tax under protest, setting up that it was
excessive, and after filing a claim for refund brought the
present suit in the district court for western Oklahoma
to recover the excess. In his claim for refund petitioner
assigned as reasons for it (1) the Commissioner's erroneous computation of the value of the stock on March 1,
1913, and (2) his failure to deduct from the capital and
surplus of the company at the date of liquidation the
amount of certain outstanding debts which were assumed
by the stockholders, but no explicit statement was made
that the Commissioner had erred in decreasing the March
1, 1913 value, by the value of the property distributed in
May, 1913, nor was that point raised by the petition in
the district court which in effect merely repeated the
allegations of the claim for refund.
In the course of the trial, petitioner, without objection
by the government, abandoned the grounds of recovery
stated in the petition and attacked only the Commissioner's deduction of the return of capital from the March
1, 1913 value. That issue alone was litigated. At the
close of the trial counsel stipulated that, if the court

230

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

found the deduction to have been erroneously made, the
petitioner should have judgment in a sum named. The
district court's judgment against petitioner was affirmed
by the court of appeals for the eighth circuit, 15 Fed.
(2d) 356, which held that a recovery on grounds different from those set up in the claim for refund was
precluded by § 3226 of the Revised Statutes, as amended
by § 1014 of the Revenue Act of 1924 (c. 234, 43 Stat. 253,
343; U. S. C., Title 26, § 156). The case was brought
here on certiorari to review this determination. 273 U. S.
689.
Section 3226 provides that "No suit or proceeding shall
be maintained

.

.

.

for the recovery of any internal-

revenue tax alleged to have been erroneously or illegally
assessed or collected

.

.

.

until a claim for refund or

credit has been duly filed with the Commissioner of Internal Revenue, according to the provisions of law in that
regard, and the regulations of the Secretary of the Treasury established in pursuance thereof;

.

.

."

And ar-

ticle 1036 of Treasury Regulations No. 45 (1920 ed.), in
force when the claim for refund was filed, requires that
such claims "shall be made on Form 46 (revised)," and

that "all the facts relied upon in support of the claim
shall be clearly set forth under oath." In the form referred to a space was provided for the claimant to set out
the reasons why his application should be allowed'.
In our view of the case, the question considered by the
circuit court of appeals was not properly before it, and it
should have passed upon the merits. During the entire
course of the trial no question was raised as to the sufficiency of the claim for refund. The only substantial issue
litigated was the correctness of the Commissioner's deduction of the distribution of May, 1913. All other questions
were taken out of the case by stipulation.
If the Collector and counsel for the government had
power to waive an objection to the sufficiency of the de-

TUCKER v. ALEXANDER.
228

Opinion of the Court.

scription of the claim filed, it was waived here, and we
need not consider the precise extent of the requirements
prescribed by statute and regulations, nor whether petitioner's claim for refund fell short of satisfying them.
The Solicitor General does not urge that the government's
possible objection could not be waived but submits the
question for our decision.
Literal compliance with statutory requirements that a
claim or appeal be filed with the Commissioner before
suit is brought for a tax refund may be insisted upon by
the defendant, whether the Collector or the United States.
Kings County Savings Institutionv. Blair, 116 U. S.200;
Maryland Casualty Co. v. United States, 251 U. S. 342,
353, 354; Nichols v. United States, 7 Wall. 122, 130. But
no case appears to have held that such objections as that
urged here may not be dispensed with by stipulation in
open court on the trial. The statute and the regulations
must be read in the light of their purpose. They are
devised, not as traps for the unwary, but for the convenience of government officials in passing upon claims
for refund and in preparing for trial. Failure to observe
them does not necessarily preclude recovery. Ifcompliance is insisted upon, dismissal of the suit may be followed
by a new claim for refund and another suit within the
period of limitations. If the Commissioner is not deceived or misled by the failure to describe accurately the
claim, as obviously he was not here, it may be more convenient for the government, and decidedly in the interest
of an orderly administrative procedure, that the claim
should be disposed of upon its merits on a first trial without imposing upon government and taxpayer the necessity of further legal proceedings. We can perceive no
valid reason why the requirements of the regulations may
not be waived for that purpose. We are not unmindful
of those cases holding that in suits against the government no officer of the government may waive statutes of

232

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Counsel for Parties.

275 U. S.

limitations. Finn v. United States, 123 U. S. 227. Such
waivers, if allowed, would defeat the only purpose of the
statute and impose a liability upon the United States
which otherwise would not exist-consequences which do
not attach to the waiver here.
Reversed.
HEINER, COLLECTOR, v. COLONIAL TRUST COMPANY, EXECUTOR.
LEWELLYN, FORMER COLLECTOR, v. COLONIAL
TRUST COMPANY, EXECUTOR.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

Nos. 219, 220. Argued October 7,1927.-Decided November 21, 1927.
The net income derived by a non-Indian from a lease made to him by
a tribe of Indians with the approval of the Secretary of the Interior,
is taxable under the Revenue Acts of 1916 and following years.
P. 234.
17 F. (2d) 36, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 274 U. S. 731, to judgments of the Circuit
Court of Appeals which affirmed judgments of the District Court, 12 F. (2d) 481, in favor of the respondent
trust company in suits to recover income taxes collected
from the respondent's testator.

Solicitor General Mitchell, with whom Assistant Attorney General Willebrandt and Messrs. A. W. Gregg, General Counsel, and A. J. Ward, Special Attorney, Bureau
of Internal Revenue, were CA the brief, for petitioners.
Mr. John W. Davis, with whom Messrs. R. C. Allen,
C. A. Jones, M. W. Acheson, Jr., James R. Sterrett, and
I. J. Underwood were on the brief, for respondent.
Messrs. James M. Beck and T. J. Leahy filed a brief as
amici curiae, by special leave of Court.

