404

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Syllabus.

275 U. S.

CLEVELAND, CINCINNATI, CHICAGO & ST.
LOUIS RAILWAY COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 95. Argued November 30, 1927.-Decided January 3, 1928.
1. Paragraph 22 of § 1 of the amended Interstate Commerce Act
(added by Transportation Act, 1920) which declares that the
authority of the Commission conferred by paragraphs 18-21 shall
not extend to the construction or abandonment of spur, industrial,
team, switching or side tracks, located or to be located wholly
within one State, refers to tracks built by the carrier as part of its
railroad and does not destroy the power of the Commission under
paragraph 9 (from Act of June 29, 1906) to require switch connections with private sidings built by shippers. P. 407.
2. The mere fact that a shipper's side track with which a connection
is sought extends to an industry located on another railroad will
not make the switch connection or the track of the shipper, or both
combined, an extension of the railroad with which the connection
is sought, within the meaning of paragraphs 18 to 21. P. 408.
3. The possibility that in the future a shipper's side track may be
used by carriers whose lines it crosses does not render its mere
construction and operation an extension of the lines of those carriers within the meaning of paragraph 18. P. 409.
4. A rule of state law that a side track crossing a highway is a part
of railroads with which it connects and subject to public use, does
not require the Interstate Commerce Commission, when ordering
a railroad to establish a switch connection with such a side track
for use in interstate commerce, to make the findings of public
convenience and necessity which are necessary in proceedings under
paragraphs 18 to 21. P. 410.
5. A state court annulled an order of a state commission which
required an interstate carrier to establish a switch connection with
a shipper's side track on the ground that the character of the
side track brought the case within the provisions of paragraphs
18 to 21, and the exclusive jurisdiction of the Interstate Commerce
Commission. Held that this did not preclude the shipper from
seeking relief, or the Commission from proceeding, under para-

CLEVELAND,

ETC.,

RY. v. UNITED STATES.

405

Opinion of the Court.

404

graph 9 rather than paragraphs 18 to 21, where the case properly
fell within the former paragraph. P. 411.
6. A shipper may be entitled to a switch connection with an interstate railroad under paragraph 9, although his siding track is already connected with another interstate railroad. P. 412.
7. The right of a shipper who has built his siding to compel a switch
connection under paragraph 9, is not dependent on his having
shipped over the line to be connected with. P. 413.
8. The question whether the building of a private side track by a
coal corporation was in excess of its powers under the state law, is
not open in a suit to set aside an order of the Interstate Commerce
Commission made under paragraph 9, requiring a railroad to make
a switch connection with the side track. P. 413.
9. It is the duty of the District Courts to deliver opinions expressing
the grounds of their decisions in cases of this character. P. 414.
Affirmed.
APPEAL from a decree of the District Court dismissing
a bill to set aside an order of 'the Interstate Commerce
Commission, requiring the Railway Company to construct
a switch connection with a private siding or spur of a
coal company.

Mr. George B. Gillespie, with whom Messrs. H. N.
Quigley and S. W. Baxter were on the brief, for appellant.
Mr. Blackburn Esterline,Assistant to the Solicitor General, with whom Solicitor General Mitchell was on the
brief, for the United States.
Mr. Patrick J. Farrell, with whom Mr. E. M. Reidy
was on the brief, for the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Messrs. James M. Sheean and Clarence B. Cardy were
on the brief for J. K. Dering Coal Company.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Paragraph 9 of § 1 of the Interstate Commerce Act as

amended provides that "Any common carrier subject to

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

any
the provisions of this Act, upon application of
shipper tendering interstate traffic for transportation,
shall construct, maintain, and operate upon reasonable
terms a switch connection with any . . private side
track which may be constructed to connect with its railroad, where such connection is reasonably practicable and
can be put in with safety and will furnish sufficient business to justify the construction and maintenance of the
same "; and it authorizes the Interstate Commerce Commission upon complaint and hearing to enforce performance of that duty. Act of June 29, 1906, c. 3591, § 1, 34
Stat. 584, 585; Act of June 18, 1910, c. 309, § 7, 36 Stat.
539, 547; Act of Feb. 28, 1920, c. 91, § 401, 41 Stat. 456,
475.
J. K. Dering Coal Company, which owns a large mine
located on the Illinois Central Railroad, desired a direct
connection also with the railroad commonly known as the
Big Four. To this end, it built a private track, about
three and a half miles long, from its mine to the right of
way of the Big Four. Thereafter, it applied to the Interstate Commerce Commission, under paragraph 9 of § 1,
for an order requiring the Big Four to construct, maintain
and operate the desired switch connection. The mine, its
track and the proposed connection are wholly Within the
State of Illinois. Upon full hearing, the Commission
found the facts which, under that paragraph, must exist
before a shipper can require the railroad to construct a
connection. That is, it found that the Coal Company
had built its track up to the right of way of the railroad;
that it had made application in writing for the connection;
that it had tendered interstate traffic; that the business
was sufficient to justify the construction and maintenance
of the proposed. connection; that the connection is reasonably practicable and can be put in with safety; and that
the connection should be constructed and maintained by

CLEVELAND,
404

ETC.,

RY. v. UNITED STATES.

407

Opinion of the Court.

the railroad. Thereupon, the Commission entered the
order prayed for. J. K. Dering Coal Co. v. Cleveland,
Cincinnati, Chicago & St. Louis Ry. Co., 96 I. C. C. 143;
109 I. C. C. 55.
The Big Four brought this suit against the United
States and the Coal Company in the federal court for
northern Illinois to set aside that order. The Commission
intervened as defendant.' The case was heard before
three judges upon motion for an interlocutory injunction, which was denied. Later, upon final hearing, a
decree was entered dismissing the bill. That decree is
here on appeal, under Urgent Deficiencies Act, October 22,
1913, c. 32, 38 Stat. 208, 220, and § 238 of the Judicial
Code as amended by Act of February 13, 1925, c. 229, 43
Stat. 936, 938.
The District Court did not make findings of facts,
render an opinion, or indicate by recital in the decree the
grounds of its decision. The abridged record occupies 492
printed pages, besides numerous exhibits. There are 21
assignments of error. And the appellant's briefs fill more
than 200 pages. No irregularity in the proceedings before
the Commission is suggested. It is urged that some essential findings of fact made by the Commission are without support; but the evidence is clearly ample. The
claim of invalidity is rested mainly upon contentions of
an entirely different nature. These are numerous; and
all are groundless. But, because they are peculiar in
character and novel, they must be stated in detail.
First. It is contended that the power of the Commission, under paragraph 9, to require the construction of a
switch connection with a side track built by a shipper and
1 The Illinois Central Railroad Company and the Southern Illinois
Railway and Power Company were also joined as defendants; but as
to them the bill was dismissed, on motion of plaintiff, before entry of
the decree under appeal.

408

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

located wholly within one State, was abrogated by paragraph 22, which was added to § 1 of the Interstate Commerce Act by Transportation Act, 1920. Act of February
28, 1920, c. 91, § 402, 41 Stat. 456, 478. Paragraph 22
declares: "The authority of the Commission conferred
by paragraphs (18) to (21), both inclusive, shall not
extend to the construction or abandonment of spur, industrial, team, switching or side tracks, located or to be
located wholly within one State.
"
Paragraph 22 in no way affects the power conferred by
paragraph 9. By its terms, it operates as a limitation
only upon the authority conferred upon the Commission
in 1920 by paragraphs 18 to 21. These paragraphs relate
to the construction, acquisition, extension and abandonment of a railroad. They deal primarily with rights
sought to be exercised by the carrier. Compare Railroad
Commission v. Southern Pacific Co., 264 U. S. 331, 345;
Texas'& Pacific Ry. Co. v. Gulf, Colorado & Santa Fe Ry.
Co., 270 U. S.266; Alabama & Vicksburg Ry. Ca.v. Jackson & Eastern Ry. Co., 271 U. S. 244, 249. In denying
their application to side tracks or spurs, paragraph 22 refers to tracks built by the carrier as a part of its railroad.
Compare Swift & Co. v. Hocking Valley Ry. Co., 243 U. S.
281, 285, 290. Paragraph 9, on the other hand, relates to
switch connections with private sidings built by the shipper. The power to compel such had been granted to the
Commission by the Act of June 29, 1906, c. 3591, § 1, 34
Stat. 584, 585. Furthermore, Congress gave explicit proof
that in adding paragraph 22 to § 1, it meant to leave paragraph 9 unaffected. For Transportation Act, 1920, provided specifically that the paragraph concerning switch
connections, which as it then stood was unnumbered,
should (without change) be numbered 9. Act of February 28, 1920, c. 91, § 401, 41 Stat. 456, 475.
Second. It is contended that if the authority given the
Commission by paragraph 9 was not abrogated by the en-

CLEVELAND,
404

ETC.,

RY. v. UNITED STATES.

409

Opinion of the Court.

actment of paragraph 22, its exercise in the present case
was subject to the requirements of paragraphs 18 to 21,
and that the Commission's order is void for non-compliance therewith. The contention has two phases. In the
first place, it is said that if the switch connection is made,
the side track, by enabling the Big Four to .reach into
territory hitherto served wholly by another carrier, will
become an extension of its lines within the meaning of
paragraph 18. Compare Texas & Pacific Ry. Co. v. Gulf,
Colorado & Santa Fe Ry. Co., 270 U. S. 266; Marion &
Eastern R. R. Co. v. Missouri Pacific R. R. Co., 318 Ill.
436, certiorari denied, 271 U. S. 661. This argument proceeds from the same misconception of the purpose of
paragraphs 18 to 21 as does the argument discussed above.
These paragraphs deal with construction and abandonment on the part of the carrier, not with side tracks built
by the shipper. Furthermore the order gave the Big Four
no trackage rights over the Coal Company's track. The
mere fact that a side track with which a connection is
sought extends to an industry located on another railroad
does not make the switch connection or the track of the
shipper, or both combined, an extension of the railroad
within the meaning of paragraphs 18 to 21.
The Big Four appears to place greater reliance on the
other phase of the contention. The Coal Company's
track crosses at grade, in addition to three highways, the
tracks of the Illinois Central and the Southern Illinois.
There is an agreement between these carriers and the
Coal Company under which, by means of appropriate
switch connections which it is physically possible to make,
trains from these other lines could pass over the track, and
thus, as is contended, tap territory now tributary to the
Big Four. The argument is that because of the possibilities of the use of the track by these other carriers, it is an
extension within the meaning of paragraph 18. Texas &
Pacific Ry. Co. v. Gulf, Colorado & Santa Fe Ry. Co.,

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

supra. But no such connection has been made or attempted or threatened; and neither the Illinois Commerce
Commission nor the Interstate Commerce Commission has
authorized such connection or use. If the track is used
by the Illinois Central or the Southern Illinois in the
manner described, paragraph 20 of § 1 furnishes the appellant with an appropriate remedy. Texas & Pacific Ry.
Co. v. Gulf, Colorado & Santa Fe Ry. Co., supra.
Third. It is contended that, regardless of the fact that
the order of the Commission provides only for a switch
connection with the siding of the Coal Company, the
siding must be regarded as an extension within the meaning of paragraphs 18 to 21, because under the law of Illinois, all tracks which cross highways are deemed public
tracks, and this track crosses highways. It is true that,
under § 45 of the Public Utilities Act of the State, Cahill's
Illinois Revised Statutes (1925), Chap. lila, par. 60, a
switch track, though built by an industry and used in
connection with it, is a part of the railroad subject to
public use. Public Utilities Commission v. Smith, 298 Ill.
151; St. Louis, Springfield & Peoria R. R. v. Commerce
Commission, 309 Ill. 621. But, obviously, a State cannot,
in respect to the regulation of interstate commerce, override the-will of Congress. Napier v. Atlantic Coast Line,
272 U. S. 605. The Commission was given the authority
to compel an interstate carrier to construct a switch connection with a side track built by an industry. The State
cannot curtail the Commission's power over interstate
commerce by denying it authority to compel a connection
with such a side track unless the circumstances are such
that public necessity and convenience require an extension
of the railroad under paragraphs 18 to 21. Compare
Colorado v. United States, 271 U. S. 153; Alabama &
Vicksburg Ry. Co. v. Jackson & Eastern Ry. Co., 271
U. S. 244. As the Commission said, when making the

CLEVELAND,
404

ETC.,

RY. v. UNITED STATES.

411

Opinion of the Court.

order: "We, of course, are not concerned with the character of the track with respect to intrastate commerce."
109 I. C. C. 55, 57.
Fourth. It is contended that the Coal Company is
estopped by certain proceedings in the state courts from
denying that the track from the mine to the right of way
of the Big Four is an extension, within the meaning of
paragraphs 18 to 21. The facts relied upon, so far as
material, are these. In 1922, the Coal Company applied
to the Illinois Commerce Commission for leave to build
this track, and later prayed that its use be limited to a
private minelead track. The Big Four challenged the
Commission's jurisdiction, on the ground that the proceeding was one to compel the connection or extension
of interstate carriers and was within the exclusive control
of the Interstate Commerce Commission. The Illinois
Commerce Commission overruled the challenge, found for
the petitioners on the merits, and, at their request, provided in its orders that the track when built and connected
with the Big Four should not be used for any other purpose than to serve the mine of the Coal Company, until
permission for further use should be granted by the Illinois
Commission. Thereupon, the Big Four assailed the orders
of the state commission in the circuit court for Saline
County and was defeated there. After the validity of the
orders had been affirmed by that court the track was constructed. Later, the Supreme Court of the State, reviewing the circuit court's decision, held the order of the state
commission void, on the ground, urged by the Big Four,
that, in spite of the limitation in the orders, the track
would be, under the law of IlrInois, a public track, and,
hence an extension of the railroads within the meaning
of paragraphs 18 to 21; and that since the carrier was
engaged in interstate commerce, the jurisdiction to compel construction of the switch vested in the Interstate

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

Commerce Commission, C., C., C. & St. L. Ry. Co. v. Commerce Commission, 315 Ill. 461, 476. That court said:
"This section [45 of the State Utilities Act] cannot be
held to apply to situations coming under the Federal
Transportation act. As to such the latter act is supreme.
Nor can it be said that the legislature in enacting section
45 sought to confer on the Illinois Commerce Commission
jurisdiction of those matters coming under the Federal
Transportation act. The steam railways involved here
are interstate carriers. That which amounts to an extension of their lines is under the sole jurisdiction of the
Interstate Commerce Commission, and the Illinois Com.merce Commission is without jurisdiction."The Big Four, having, thus, convinced the state court
that the order of the state commission was void because
the matter is one within the jurisdiction of the federal
commission, insists now that the latter cannot act because
of the state decision. The judgment of the highest court
of the State is, of course, conclusive in so far as it declares
that the state commission exceeded its statutory powers.
But, obviously, neither the legislature nor the courts of a
State can limit the power of the Interstate Commerce
Commission to compel connections with private side
tracks. . The declaration of the state court that the track
which the federal authority determines is private, shall be
deemed public, can not affect the validity of the order
of the Interstate Commerce Commission. If it could, construction by the railroad of the switch connection with the
shipper's track would not be compellable under either
state or federal law. Compare United States v. New
York Central R. R. Co., '72 U. S. 457, 459.
Fifth. It is contended that the Coal Company is not,
within the meaning of paragraph 9, a "shipper" on the
Big Four, because its mine was already connected with the
Illinois Central. The argument is that Congress did not
intend to give a shipper the right to a direct connection

CLEVELAND,
404

ETC.,

RY. v. UNITED STATES.

413

Opinion of the Court.

with more than one railroad. There is nothing in the
Interstate Commerce Act which justifies such a limitation
of the general language of paragraph 9. Coal mines are
often connected with more than one railroad. Compare
United States v. New River Co., 265 U. S. 533; In re
Irregularities in Mine Ratings, 25 I. C. C. 286, 287;
Dering Mines Co. v. Director General, 62 I. C. C. 265;
Fairmont& Cleveland Coal Co. v. Baltimore & Ohio R. R.
Co., 62 I. C. C. 269; Bell & Zoller Coal Co. v. Baltimore
& Ohio Southwestern R. R. Co., 74 I. C. C. 433.
Sixth. It is contended that the Coal Company is not a
shipper on the Big Four, within the meaning of paragraph
9, because up to the time of the application to the Conmission it had not actually shipped coal by this route over
the Big Four. The argument is that no one, unless he is
already a shipper at the time of the application to the
Commission, is entitled to a switch connection. Congress
imposed no such limitation. It safeguarded the expenditures of the carrier by other provisions. It limited the
railroad's obligation to the building of the switch connection, leaving the burden of building the side track upon
the shipper. Winters Metallic Paint Co. v. Chicago, Milwaukee & St. Paul Ry. Co., 16 1. C. C. 587; Ralston Townsite Co. v. Missouri Pacific Ry. Co., 22 I. C. C. 354;
National Industrial Traffic League v. Aberdeen & Rockfish R. R. Co., 61 I. C. C. 120, 121; Certain-Teed Products
Co. v. Chicago, R. I. & Pac. Ry. Co., 68 I. C. C. 260, 263.
And the railroad cannot be ordered to build the switch
until after the shipper has built the private siding. Virginia Coal & Fuel Co. v. Norfolk & Western Ry. Co., 55
I. C. C. 61; Schlicher v. Director General, 62 I. C. C.
181,186.
Seventh. It is contended that the Coal Company is not
a shipper on the Big Four, within the meaning of paragraph 9, because the railroad can be compelled to build
the connection only with a "private side track which may

414

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

be constructed to connect with its railroad," and the track
of the Coal Company, if a private track, could not be
legally constructed. The argument is that, under the law
of Illinois, only a public track may cross a highway; that
an Illinois mining corporation has no power to build a
public track; that since the Coal Company is an Illinois
corporation the construction of the track was ultra vires;
that hence, whether the track be public or private, it is
an illegal structure; and that consequently it is not a
track "which may be constructed" within the meaning
of paragraph 9. Congress obviously did not impose upon
the Interstate Commerce Commission the duty of determining, before issuing an order, whether or not a private
track actually in existence had been constructed by the
shipper ultra vires. Whether in so acting, the shipper
transgressed powers conferred upon it by the State is a
question which cannot be raised in this suit. If the State
concludes to question the legality of the shipper's acts, it
must do so in a direct proceeding instituted by it for that
purpose, Kerfoot v. Farmers& Merchants Bank, 218 U. S.
281, 287.
Thus, all the contentions of the Big Four are clearly
unfounded. The District Court properly refused to grant
a stay of the Commission's order pending an appeal. It
is difficult to believe that the appeal would have been persisted in, if that court had delivered an opinion setting
forth its reasons for dismissing the bill. Where the trial
court omits to state the grounds of its decision, the appellate court is denied an important aid in the consideration
of the case; and the defeated party is often unable to
determine whether the case presents a question worthy
of consideration by the appellate court. Thus, both the
litigants and this Court are subjected to unnecessary
labor. Virginian Ry. Co. v. United States, 272 U. S. 658,
675. See also Lawrence v. St. Louis-San Francisco Ry.
Co., 274 U. S. 588; Arkansas Railroad Commission v. Chi-

EMER. FLEET CORP. v. WEST. UNION.
404

415

Statement of the Case.

cago, Rock Island &Pacific R. R. Co., 274 U. S. 597; City
of Hammond v. Schappi Bus Line, ante, p. 164; City of

Hammond v. Farina Bus Line & Transportation Co.,

ante, p. 173.
Affirmed.

EMERGENCY

FLEET CORPORATION,

UNITED

STATES SHIPPING BOARD v. WESTERN UNION
TELEGRAPH COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA.

No. 113.

Argued December 2, 5, 1927.-Decided January 3, 1928.

1. The Fleet Corporation is a department of the government within
the meaning of the Post Roads Act, and therefore entitled to the
reduced rates fixed by the Postmaster General for telegraphic messages sent over the lines of companies which accepted its provisions,
to officials and agents of government departments or to private
parties on government business. Pp. 417, 426.
2. The practical construction of the Act in this regard is decisive of
its meaning. P. 418.
3. The facts that the Fleet Corporation is in form a private corporation, that in sending messages it contracted on its own behalf
and is suable on such contracts by the telegraph company, and
that it competes in some of its operations with private shipping,
held not inconsistent with its being a department of the government
within the Post Roads Act in view of its relations, functional and
fiscal, to the United States and considering that, if it paid full commercial rates, the burden would fall upon the government. Pp.
422-24.
4. The Act of June 18, 1910, in broadening the Interstate Commerce
Act so as to include telegraph companies, did not abrogate or
modify the scope or effect of the Post Roads Act with respect to
the allowance of reduced rates to the government. P. 425.
13 F. (2d) 308, reversed.
CERTIORARI, 273 U. S. 681, to a judgment of the Court
of Appeals of the District of Columbia, which affirmed a
judgment recovered by the Telegraph Company from the
Fleet Corporation in the Supreme Court of the District

