LEWELLYN v. ELEC. REDUCTION CO.
236

243

Syllabus.

The respondent suggests here numerous other objections to the charge as given. We have considered them
and find that they present no substantial question requiring further comment. The judgment of the district
court is affirmed and that of the court of appeals is
Reversed.
LEWELLYN, COLLECTOR, v. ELECTRIC REDUCTION COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF-APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 71.

Argued October 26, 1927.-Decided November 21, 1927.

1. The rights of a buyer who has prepaid a seller for merchandise
which the latter has failed to deliver are upon contract and are
not a "debt" where neither party has abandoned the contract;
the prepayment is therefore not deductible, in arriving at net
income under Revenue Act of 1918, § 234 (5), as a "debt ascertained to be worthless and eharged off within the taxable year."
P. 246.
2. When the seller proved to be irresponsible, the buyer's loss could
be deducted under § 234 (4) as a "loss sustained during -the taxable
year," i. e., the year in which his claim proved to be worthiess.
P. 246.
3. Plaintiff, in 1918, paid in advance for goods which were never delivered. He did not charge off the amount in that year on his books,
but continued to carry it in a "bills receivable" account. The
worthlessness of the claim was proved by the outcome of litigation
two years after the payment. He then sought, under Subsection
(4), § 234, Revenue Act of 1918, to deduct the amount of the payment in an amended tax return for 1918. Held, that the deduction
was not allowable because the loss was not "sustained" during that
taxable year. P. 247.
4. Trial by jury having been waived in writing, review of this case
is limited to the sufficiency of the facts specially found to support
the judgment and to the rulings excepted to and presented by the
bill of exceptions, Rev. Stat. §§ 649, 700. The Court is without
power to grant a new trial except for error thus presented. P. 248,
11 F. (2d) 493, reversed,

244

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

CERTIORARI,

275 U. S.

273 U. S. 676, to a judgment of the Circuit

Court of Appeals which reversed a judgment of the District Court for the Collector in an action brought by
the Reduction Company to recover income taxes. 8 F.
(2d) 91.
Assistant Attorney General Galloway, with whom
Solicitor General Mitchell, Assistant Attorney General
Willebrandt, and Messrs. Clarence M. hcarest, General
Counsel, and Irwin R. Blaisdell, Special Attorney, Bureau
of Internal Revenue, were on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. S. Leo Ruslander,with whom Mr. George R. Beneman was on the brief, for respondent.
Mr. Donald Home, filed a brief as amicus curia, by
special leave of Court.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

This case is here on writ of certiorari to the Circuit
Court of Appeals for the third circuit, to review its judgment, 11 Fed. (2d) 493, reversing the judgment of the

district court for western Pennsylvania, 8 Fed. (2d) 91,
and awarding a new trial. The action was brought by
respondent to recover income taxes paid by it for the year
1918. By written stipulation a jury was waived and the
case was tried to the court, which made special findings
and on them gave judgment for defendant. The principal question to be determined is the right of the respondent, upheld below, to deduct an admitted business
loss from its gross income for 1918 in determining its tax
for that year, rather than from gross income for a later
year.
Ih July, 1918, respondent contracted with one Jouravleff
for the sale and delivery to it in monthly installments of
a quantity of tungsten ore. The contract required the
buyer immediately to accept a bill of exchange drawn on

LEWELLYN v. ELEC. REDUCTION CO.
243

245

Opinion of the Court.

it by the seller in the sum of $30,000, which was to be
applied against the purchase price of the first carload of
ore shipped. Respondent accepted the draft and the seller
negotiated it through bankers associated with him in the
transaction. Respondent paid it at maturity, in advance
of any actual shipment of ore, having received from the
broker who had negotiated the sale, a telegram saying:
"Shipment one car will be made today." Only a small
quantity of ore was ever shipped. This was received in
the following December and after being credited upon the
amount of the draft left a balance of more than $27,000.
In March of the following year respondent began three
separate suits to recover the $27,000-one against the
seller, the second against the broker as an alleged surety
or guarantor of the seller, and the third against the bankers. Judgment secured against the seller in 1919 remains
unsatisfied. The suit against the broker resulted in a
judgment for the defendant in November, 1922. The suit
against the bankers was discontinued in 1921 as useless
after they had been adjudged bankrupt. Respondent did
not charge off the $27,000 on its books in 1918, but continued to carry it as an item in its "bills receivable"
account. It claimed no loss on account of the payment
in its tax return for that year. Upon the termination of
the litigation in 1922 it filed an amended tax return for
1918, deducting the uncollected balance as a loss, and
brought the present suit to recover the alleged overpayment of tax.
Section 234 of the Revenue Act of 1918, c. 18, 40 Stat.
1057, 1078, provides that in arriving at taxable income
there may be deducted:
"(4) Losses sustained during the taxable year and not
compensated for by insurance or otherwise;
"(5) Debts ascertained to be worthless and charged off
within the taxable year."

OCTOBER TERM, 1927..
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

The district court held that the loss was upon a worthless debt deductible under subdivision (5) and not
deductible for 1918 because not charged off in that year.
The respondent contends and the court below held that
the loss was not one upon a worthless debt, deductible
under sub-section (5), but was deductible when "sustained" under sub-section (4), and concludes that the loss
was rightly deducted as of 1918 since the loss was sustained
when respondent paid out the money for which it received
no return.
We assume without deciding, as was assumed by both
courts below, that sub-section (4) and sub-section (5) are
mutually exclusive so that a loss deductible under one
may not be deducted under the other. We may assume
also that upon the abandonment of the contract by the
seller the buyer might have maintained an action to recover the balance of the money which he had paid. But
so far as appears from the record there had been no
abandonment by the seller in 1918. Throughout that
period the buyer was calling for deliveries and some were
made as late as in December. The buyer's rights were
upon a contract for the delivery of merchandise and were
not a "debt" in either a technical or a colloquial sense.
We conclude that if respondent's contract rights became
worthless in 1918 he was not required to deduct his loss as
a worthless debt under sub-section (5), but was entitled
to deduct it under sub-section (4) as a loss sustained in
that year.
But we do not think that a loss resulting from
a buyer's
prepayment to a seller who proves to be irresponsible is
necessarily sustained, in the statutory meaning, as soon as
the money is paid. The statute was intended to apply
not only to losses resulting from the physical destruction
of articles of value but to those occurring in the operations
of trade and business, where the business man has yen-

LEWELLYN v. ELEC. REDUCTION CO.
243

247

Opinion of the Court.

tured on a course of action in the reasonable expectation
that the promised conduct of another will come to pass.
Not only the future success of the business but its present
solvency depends on the probable accuracy of his prophecy. Only when events prove the prophecy to have
been false can it be said that he has suffered. His case is
not like that of a man who fails to learn of the theft of
his bonds or the burning of his house until a year after
the occurrence; but rather resembles the position of a
merchant who buys in one year, for sale in the next, merchandise which shifting fashion renders unsaleable in the
latter. It may well be that he whose house has been
burned has sustained a loss whether he knows it or not
and may recover a tax paid in ignorance of that material
fact. But we cannot say that the merchant whose action
has been based not merely on ignorance of a fact but on
faith in a prophecy--even though the prophecy is made
without full knowledge of the facts-can claim to have
sustained a loss before the future fails to justify his
hopes.
Here the only fact relied upon to show a loss is the outcome of the litigations two years after respondent's payment to Jouravleff. There is nothing in the findings from
which we could conclude that the respondent in 1918 had
ceased to regard his rights under the contract as having
value or that there was then reasonable ground to suppose
that efforts to enforce them would be fruitless. On the
findings respondent is not entitled to recover.
At the trial respondent offered evidence that it had conducted, in 1918, an investigation which tended to show
the irresponsibility of Jouravleff. Inquiries, variously
phrased, to elicit this fact were excluded by the trial judge
both because they were irrelevant and because the evidence offered was inadmissible as hearsay. An examination of the bill of exceptions discloses that the proffered
testimony was rightly excluded on this latter ground.

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Syllabus.

275 U. S.

Hence no error was committed by the trial court in its
rulings. A trial by jury having been waived in writing,
our review in this case is limited to the sufficiency of the
facts specially found to support the judgment, and to the
rulings excepted to and presented by the bill of exceptions,
Rev. Stat. §§ 649, 700; Fleischmann Co. v. United States,
270 U. S. 349, and we are without power to grant a new
trial except for error thus presented. Mueller Grain, Co.
v. American State Bank, post, p. 493, reversing 15 Fed.
(2d) 899. The judgment of the district court was right,
for reasons other than those assigned by it. It is affirmed
and the judgment of the court of appeals is
Reversed.
EQUITABLE TRUST COMPANY, TRUSTEE, v.

ROCHLING

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.
No. 34.

Argued October 14, 17, 1927.-Decided November 21, 1927.

1. Where a bank, before the filing of a petition in bankruptcy against
it, received deposits of checks, the proceeds of which were later collected by its trustee in bankruptcy, the depositor is entitled to claim
the proceeds of the deposit only if the bank received the checks
as an agent for collection, but must stand as an ordinary creditor
if ownership of the paper passed to the bank. P. 252.
2. Respondents, who were bankers of Frankfort-on-Main, desired in
the course of their international business, to arrange a credit at
New York. Pursuant to instructions issued at their request by
London connections, New York banks delivered to a New York
banking firm (afterwards bankrupt) their cashier's checks drawn
payable to the order of that firm "for account of" respondents.
On the same day, the firm, in following a course of dealing previously established with respondents, credited the checks to respondents' account, made book entries indicating that respondents were
entitled to interest on the amount from that date, and deposited
them to its own credit in other banks. Before collection of the
checks, the petition in bankruptcy was filed. Held-That the

