HOPKINS v. SOUTHERN CAL. TEL. CO.

393

Syllabus.

HOPKINS, ASSESSOR, ET AL. v. SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA TELEPHONE COMPANY ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 133.

Argued December 8, 1927.-Decided January 3, 1928.

1. Where a bill in the District Court to enjoin state officials from
enforcing a property tax raises substantial questions as to it
validity under the Fourteenth Amendment, the court has jurisdiction even though its validity under the state law is also questioned
and has not been decided by the courts of the State. P. 398.
2. The District Court, having thus acquired jurisdiction as a federal
ccurt, all material questions, state or federal, are open for decision.
Id.
3. The equity jurisdiction, also, exists in such a case if the legal
remedy of paying the tax and suing to recover is doubtful under
the state law, would not include interest, and would involve a
multiplicity of suits. P. 399.
4. A rehearing granted by the Supreme Court of California vacates
the previous opinion and judgment, and sets the whole matter atb
large. P. 400.
5. Under the constitution (Art. XIII, § 14) and statutes of Califor.nia, telephone companies pay a state property tax upon their
franchises, poles, wires and other property used exclusively in the
operation of their business in the State, computed at certain percentages upon the gross receipts from such operation, and such
taxes are in lieu of all other taxes upon such property of such com.
panies. The percentages are adjusted so that this tax shall equal
the average burden of taxation on other classes of property, which
are subject to local taxation by counties and municipalities, and
not by the State. Double taxation is forbidden. A telephone
company was assessed, and paid, the full percentage of the gross
receipts from the property operated by it, part of which was leased
from another company. Held, that the leased property was not
subject to county and municipal taxes assessed against the lessor.

P. 400.
6. Construction of a state constitution and statutes which may create
serious questions under the Federal Constitution, is to be avoided
if possible. P. 403.
13 F. (2d) 817, affirmed.

394

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Argument for Petitioners.

275 U. S.

CERTiORARI, 273 U. S. 685, to a decree of the Circuit
Court of Appeals reversing a decree of the District Court
and directing an injunction in a suit brought by the
Telephone Company to enjoin the County of Los Angeles
and certain of its officers from seizing and sellipg some
308,200 telephone "talking sets" in satisfaction of a local
tax. The District Court had dismissed the bill for lack
of jurisdiction.
Messrs. Everett W. Mattoon and W. Sumner Holbrook,
Jr., for petitioners.
A substantial federal question is alleged only when it
appears that some right of plaintiff, upon which his recovery depends, will be defeated by one construction of
the Federal Constitution or statute and will be sustained
upon the opposite. Starin v. New York, 115 U. S. 248;
Wagner Electric Co. v. Lyndon, 262 U. S. 226; Matters v.
Ryan, 249 U. S. 375; Devine v. Los Angeles, 202 U. S.
313; Bankers Casualty Co. v. Minn. St. P. etc., Ry., 192
U. S. 371; New Orleans v. Benjamin, 153 U. S. 411.
Inasmuch as the Fourteenth Amendment does not
make questions of state law a constitutional right, allegations in the bill as to the validity of the tax under the
State Constitution, are immaterial in so far as a federal
question and jurisdiction are concerned, if the tax itself
complies with the universal test of the Fourteenth
Amendment.
The bill fails to allege a substantial ground of invalidity
under the Fourteenth Amendment, since a double tax on
the "talking sets," and consequent discrimination against
property leased to public utilities, does not constitute a
violation of either the Due Process Clause or the Equal
Protection Clause of the Amendment. Double taxation
does not of itself constitute a violation ef the Fourteenth
Amendment. Swiss Oil Corp. v. Shanks, 273 U. S. 407;
Shaffer v. Carter, 252 U. S. 37; Cream of Wheat Co. v.

HOPKINS v. SOUTHERN CAL. TEL. CO.
393

395

Opinion of the Court.

Grand Forks, 253 U. S. 325; Citizens Nat'l Bank v. Durr,
257 U. S. 99; St. Louis, etc., Ry. v. Arkansas, 235 U. S.
350; Tennessee v. Whitworth, 117 U. S. 129; Fidelity &
Col. Tr. Co. v. Louisville, 245 U. S. 54; Kidd v. Alabama,
188 U. S. 730; Coe v. Errol, 116 U. S. 517.
A system of taxation discriminating between property
leased to an operating public utility and that owned and
operated by the public utility is not so arbitrary as to be
in violation of the Fourteenth Amendment. Citizens
Telephone Co. v. Fuller, 229 U. S. 322; Watson v. Comptroller, 254 U. S. 122; District of Columbia v. Brooke, 214
U. S. 138; Middleton v. Texas Power Co., 249 U. S. 152;
Stebbins v. Riley, 268 U. S. 137; National Paper Co. v.
Bowers, 266 U. S. 373; Heisler v. Thomas Colliery Co.,
260 U. S. 245; Maxwell v. Bugbee, 250 U. S. 525; Northwestern Mut. Ins. Co. v. Wisconsin, 247 U. S. 132; Kidd
v. Alabama, 188 U. S. 730.
Mr. Alfred Sutro, with whom Messrs. Oscar Lawler and
Eugene M. Prince were on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Petitioners are Los Angeles County, and its tax officials-assessor, deputy assessor, collector, and auditor.
Respondents are incorporated under the laws of California and in that State operate telephone systems for the
transmission of local and long distance messages. For the
use of patrons in Los Angeles County, they supply and
maintain more than 300,000 telephone instruments. The
component parts of these instruments are the receiver,
transmitter and induction coil, known as the "talking
set "; metal (desk) stand or wooden cabinet (for attachment to wall) which support, connect or house the
talking devices; and necessary wire connections.
Talking sets are essential to the operation of any telephone system. Those associated with instruments sup-

396

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

plied by respondents are leased by them from the American Telephone & Telegraph Company, a New York corporation, which holds title thereto. The remaining parts
of these instruments-stands, cabinets, etc.-and perhaps
all other operating property in the systems-poles, wires,
conduits, etc.-are owned by respondents.
As the statute directs, respondents made regular reports
to the State Board of Equalization showing their operative
property (including telephone instruments) and their
gross receipts from every source. They paid to the State
in lieu of taxes, or were ready to pay when due, the prescribed portions of these receipts. Without making formal
objection to the inclusion in such reports of telephone
instruments as operating property, the petitioning tax
officers, purporting to act for the county and sixteen municipalities therein, for local purposes, assessed against the
American Telephone & Telegraph Company, as owner, the
value of all talking sets within that County (more than
300,000) and demanded payment of taxes thereon for 1925
at the rate borne by ordinary tangible personalty. This
was not complied with and they threatened to disconnect the sets, and sell them, and thereby disrupt the
systems.
Thereupon, July 17, 1925, respondents filed the original
bill-afterwards amended-in the United States District
Court, Southern District of California. They set forth the
above stated facts, referred to the constitution and statutes
of California and said no tax properly could be laid upon
the leased speaking sets since all possible claim against
them had been discharged through due payment to the
State of the prescribed portion of gross receipts, partly
derived therefrom. They alleged that these sets were not
subject to local taxation; to disconnect them from respondents' systems would do irreparable harm; to enforce
the demand for local taxes would violate rights guaranteed
by the Fourteenth Amendment; there was no adequate

HOPKINS v. SOUTHERN CAL. TEL. CO.
393

397

Opinion of the Court.

remedy at law through payment and suit to recover, or
otherwise. And they asked for an injunction restraining
the threatened wrong.
It appeared that for the fiscal year 1924-1925 respondent telephone companies paid to the State, out of their
gross receipts, $2,080,005.72; and for the year ending
June 30, 1926, would pay $2,340,075.12.
The cause was submitted "upon defendants' motion
to dismiss and, in the event that said motion should be
denied, then, without further hearing, for final determination upon the application for a permanent injunction as
prayed in their complaint."
The District Court dismissed the bill, February 3, 1926,
for want of jurisdiction. The Circuit Court of Appeals
concluded correctly, we think, that there was jurisdiction;
the California statutes afforded no certain adequate remedy through payment of the demanded taxes followed by
suit at law to recover; the talking sets were not subject
to local taxation, having been wholly relieved by payment
of the gross receipts tax to the State. It accordingly reversed the decree of the trial court and directed an injunction as prayed.
Section 14, Article XIII, Constitution of California provides"Taxes levied, assessed and collected as hereinafter pro-.
vided upon railroads, . . . ; telegraph companies;
telephone companies; . . . shall be entirely and exclusively for State purposes, and shall be levied, assessed
and collected in the manner hereinafter provided. .
"(a) . . . all telegraph and telephone companies;
and all companies engaged in the transmission or sale of
gas or electricity shall annually pay to the State a tax upon
their franchises, roadways, roadbeds, rails, rolling stock,
poles, wires, pipes, canals, conduits, rights of way, and
other property, or any part thereof used exclusively in the
operation of their business in this State, computed as fol-

398

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

lows: Said tax shall be equal to the percentages hereinafter fixed upon the gross receipts from operation of such
companies, and each thereof within this State.
"The percentages above mentioned shall be as follows:
. . . on all telegraph and telephone companies, three
and one-half per cent.; [by later Legislative action increased to 5 %]. Such taxes shall be in lieu of all other
taxes and licenses, State, county and municipal, upon the
property above enumerated of such companies except as
otherwise in this section provided; . .
Pertinent provisions of the Political Code are in the
margin.*
Considering what this Court said in Raymond, Treasurer, v. Chicago Traction Co., 207 U. S. 20; Home Telephone Company v. County of Los Angeles, 227 U. S. 278,.
*

California Political Code--

Sec. 3664a. 1. All railroad companies,
; all telegraph and
telephone companies; . . . shall annually pay to the state a tax

upon their franchises, roadways, roadbeds, rails, rolling stock, poles,
wires, pipes, canals, conduits, rights of way, and other property, or
any part thereof, used exclusively in the operation of their business in
this state, computed as follows: Said tax shall be equal to the percentages hereinafter fixed upon the gross receipts from operation of such
companies and each thereof within this state.
4. Such taxes shall be in lieu of all other taxes and licenses, state,
county, and municipal, upon the property above enumerated of such
companies except as otherwise provided in section fourteen of article
thirteen of the constitution of this state.
Sec. 3665a. 1. The term "gross receipts from operation " as used
in section three thousand six hundred sixty-four a of this code is
hereby defined to include all sums received from business done within
this state, during the year ending the thirty-first day of December
last preceding, including the company's proportion of gross receipts
from any and all sources on account of business done by it within this
state, in connection with other companies described in said section.
Sec. 3665b. The term "operative property" as used in any section
of this code shall include:
(d) In the case of telegraph and telephone companies doing business in this state: The franchises, rights of way, poles, wires, pipes,

HOPKINS v. SOUTHERN CAL. TEL. CO. 399
393

Opinion of the Court.

and Binderup v. Pathe Exchange, 263 U. S. 291, we must
conclude that the bill set forth claims of right under the
Federal Constitution sufficiently substantial to give the
trial court jurisdiction of the cause. As it acquired jurisdiction, all material questions were open for decision.
Greene, Auditor, v. Louisville, etc. Co., 244 U. S. 499.
Petitioners maintain that under §§ 3804 and 3819,
California Political Code, respondents could have protected their rights by paying the assessed tax and bringing actions to recover. But whether either of these sections applies in circumstances like those here presented is
far from certain. Section 3819 gives a remedy to the
owner; and Warren v. San Francisco, 150 Cal. 167, intimates quite strongly that it applies only to actual owners.
Whether the lessee who has paid taxes upon the owners'
property can recover under § 3804 is also questionable.
Counsel differ widely concerning the meaning of these
sections and no opinion of the State court removes
the doubt. In no permitted proceeding at law could inconduits, cables, switchboards, telegraph and telephone instruments,
batteries, generators, and other electrical appliances, and exchange
and other buildings used in the telegraph and telephone business and
so much of the land on which said buildings are situate as may be
required for the convenient use and occupation of said buildings.
Sec. 3666. 1. If any assessor finds in the report of the operative
property in his county, city and county, municipality, or district,
furnished to him by any of the companies as required in section three
thousand six hundred sixty-five c of this code, any piece or parcel of
property which he regards as nonoperative property, or partially
operative and partially nonoperative, he shall, within thirty days after
receiving such report, notify the state board of equalization thereof
by mail, which notice shall contain a general description of the property and the assessor's reasons for regarding the same.as nonoperative
property. [The Board must pass upon the contest.] . . . Said
decision shall be binding upon all parties, the state, the county, city
and county, municipality, or district, and the company unless set
aside by a court of competent jurisdiction, and each such assessor
must note the decision on his assessment-roll, and must assess such
property accordingly.

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

terest upon payments be recovered for the time necessary
to obtain judgments. The County and sixteen municipalities were interested in the taxes demanded and if petitioners had received payments, it would have been incumbent upon them to make prompt distribution. Considering all the circumstances, weqfnd no clear, adequate remedy at law. The equity proceeling was permissible.
Unquestionably the talking sets would have been free
from local assessments if the title had been in respondents;
but petitioners stoutly maintain that the gross receipts
tax prescribed by the Constitution is not in lieu of local
taxes upon leased property.
No ruling of the California Supreme Court authoritatively determines whether personal property leased by a
telephone company and actually used for operating purposes is relieved from local taxation by payment to the
State of the prescribed percentage of the lessee's gross
receipts. July 2, 1927,-after the decision below-that
court handed down an opinion which declared leased improved real estate, although actually used as operating
property, was subject to local taxation. Pacific Telephone
& Telegraph Co. v. State Board of Equalization, 74 Cal.
Dec. 96. But rehearing was granted and this vacated
"the previous opinion and judgment and set the whole
matter at large." Miller & Lux Incorporatedv. James,
180 Cal. 38, 48.
The argument against exemption of leased property
from local taxation rests chiefly upon literal and narrow
interpretation of words in § 14, Article XIII, California Constitution--". . . all telegraph and telephone
companies . . . shall annually pay to the State a
tax upon their franchises, . . .
poles, wires, pipes,
canals, conduits, rights of way, and other property .
used exclusively in the operation of their business "; and
"such taxes shall be in lieu of all other taxes and licenses,

HOPKINS v. SOUTHERN CAL. TEL. CO.
393

401

Opinion of the Court.

State, county and municipal, upon the property above
enumerated of such companies."
But the Constitution plainly directs, "taxes levied,
assessed and collected as hereinafter provided upon
telephone companies

.

.

.

shall be entirely and ex-

clusively for State purposes" and such companies "shall
annually pay to the State a tax upon their poles,
and other property, or any part thereof, used exclusively
in- the operation of their business." And the Political
Code provides [Sec. 3664] that "taxes levied, assessed
and collected as hereinafter provided upon telephone companies shall be entirely and exclusively for State purposes
and shall be assessed and levied by the State Board of
Equalization "; [Sec. 3664a] that "all . . . telegraph
and telephone companies . .
shall annually pay to
the State a tax upon their . . . poles, wires,

and any other property, or any part thereof, used exclusively in the operation of their business

.

.

.;" [Sec.

3664a-4] "such taxes shall be in lieu of all other taxes and
licenses, state, county, and municipal, upon the property
above enumerated of such companies except

.

; "

[Sec. 3665a] "the term 'gross receipts from operation' as
used in Sec. 3664a of this Code is hereby defined to include
all sums received from business done within this State; "
[Sec. 3666] if an assessor finds reported as operative property in his county any which he regards as nonoperative,
he shall notify the Board of Equalization within thirty
days; and [Sec. 3607] "nothing in this Code shall be
construed to require or permit double taxation."
Sec. 14, Article XIII, (adopted 1910) was proposed by
a Commission which gave the matter much consideration
and made an elaborate report. It is the result of an
earnest effort to provide for enforcement of adequate contributions from public service and some other corporations
while avoiding double and unjust taxation. Payment of
83583 -28-26

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

specified percentages (subject to change by the Legislature) of gross receipts was directed upon the theory that
the value of operative property could be fairly measured
by considering receipts therefrom. Also, that by paying
to the State a portion of these, the corporation would, in
effect, contribute for its operative property the substantial
equivalent of all taxes laid upon other property. The
Commission (Rep. 1910, p. 19) said-" In explanation of
the above rates it may be stated that they are fixed on the
theory that these proportions of the gross receipts will in
each case equal the average burden of taxation on other
classes of property. The method of arriving at the different rates is explained in detail in the 1906 report of
this commission."
The Supreme Court of the State has declared the gross
*receipts tax is essentially one on property, Pullman Company v. Richardson, 185 Cal. 484, 487; and it appar,ently approves the vie v that "a fair tax upon gross earnings bore such a relation to the values of these properties
under their unity of use as to justify such a tax upon
revenue as being a legal and commutated or substituted
tax for other taxes which were or might have been levied."
Pacific Gas & Electric Co. v. Roberts, 168 Cal. 420, 425.
See Southern Pacific Co. v. Levee District No. 1, 172 Cal.
345; Great Western Power Co. v. City of Oakland, 189
Cal. 649.
The State received from respondents a sum equal to five
and one-half per centum of the gross revenues derived
from all operative property under their control-leased
as well as owned. These did not depend upon ownership;
and rent paid out was not considered.
If payment of the prescribed part of the gross receipts
only relieves from local taxation property actually owned
and leaves all held under lease subject thereto, inequalities
with possible confiscation, would certainly result. Under
that theory a corporation with title to half (in value) of
its operative property, the remainder being leased, would

HOPKINS v. SOUTHERN CAL. TEL. CO.
393

403

Opinion of the Court.

really pay on account of the portion owned at twice the
rate required of another corporation operating the same
amount of property and having equal receipts, but holding
nothing by lease. And if the ratio between property
owned and leased were less, the difference in rate would
be still greater. A telephone company which leased
everything it used would release no property from taxation by paying the gross receipts tax, while a competitor
with equal receipts, by paying the same amount, might
absolve from local assessments property of very large
value.
These difficultiesan not be avoided by saying the lessee
will not pay assessments against the lessor and therefore
can not complain. Leases are commonly made with reference to taxation. When the lessor discharges the tax
the lessee pays rent accordingly. And the Fourteenth
Amendment protects those within the same class against
unequal taxation; all are entitled to like treatment.
Here respondents have surrendered out of gross receipts
the equivalent of the burden imposed upon other property
not less valuable than all the operating property in their
systems; and now, unless more is paid, disruption is
threatened through seizure and sale of essential instrumentalities actually employed to produce those receipts.
We think the purpose of the 1910 Amendment is to tax
all operating property of a telephone company by ascertaining the gross receipts and taking therefrom the specified percentage. Thus, the imposition becomes approximately equal to what other property bears. Unless the
gross receipts tax be so treated, some very serious questions under the Federal Constitution are almost certain to
arise. Without an authoritative holding by the State
Supreme Court to the contrary, we must conclude the
leased speaking sets are not subject to local taxation.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE took no part in the consideration or
decision of this case.

