ROCHE v. McDONALD.
Statement of the Case.

ROCHE v. McDONALD.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
WASHINGTON.

No. 38. Submitted October 14, 1927.-Decided January 3, 1928.
1. A writ of error will not lie under Jud. Code, § 237 (a), to review
the judgment of a state court upon the ground that it failed to
give full faith and credit, as required by Art. IV, § 1, of the Constitution, to the judgment of a court of another State, but the
papers may be treated as an application for certiorari, and that
writ may be issued thereon. P. 450.
2. The Full Faith and Credit Clause requires .that the judgment of
a state court which had jurisdiction of the parties and the subjectmatter, shall be given in the courts of every other State the same
credit, validity and effect as it has in the State where it was
rendered, and be equally conclusive upon the merits; and that
only such defenses as would be good to a suit thereon in that State
can be relied on in the courts of any other State. P. 451.
3. R. recovered a judgment by default against M in an action on a
Washington judgment in an Oregon Court in which M, after being
personally served while temporarily in Oregon, had appeared and
demurred to the complaint but had elected not to plead further
when the demurrer was overruled. In a subsequent action on the
Oregon judgment in Washington, the Washington court refused to
enforce 'it, upon the ground that the original Washington judgment
had expired and become a nullity by lapse of time under the statutes of that State, before the Oregon judgment was rendered, so
that the latter was without legal foundation, and, as it would have
been void if rendered under like circumstances in a court of Washington, could be given no force or effect when sued upon in
Washington. Held, error, since the Oregon judgment, even though
erroneous, was valid and conclusive between the parties in Oregon,
and under the Full Faith and Credit Clause, was equally conclusive
in Washington.
136 Wash. 322, reversed.

Certiorari to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Washington, denying relief in an action on an Oregon judgment. The writ of error is dismissed and certiQrari
granted.
83583 -28-

29

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

Messrs. Beverly C. Mosby and Lucius G. Nash were
on the brief for petitioner.
Mr. W. G. Graves was on the brief for respondent.
MR. JUSTICE SANFORD delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This writ of error is brought to review a judgment of the
Supreme Court of the State of Washington which is challenged on the ground that the full faith and credit prescribed by § 1 of Art. IV of the Constitution was not
given to a judgment of a court of the State of Oregon on
which the plaintiff in error relied. As this does not present a ground for the writ of error under § 237 (a) of the
Judicial Code, as amended by the Jurisdictional Act of
1925,' this writ is dismissed for want of jurisdiction.
But since the papers show adequate reason for invoking
a review by a petition for certiorari, that writ is granted,2
and we proceed to the consideration of the case on the
merits.
The parties to this suit have been for many years residents of Washington. On June 24, 1918, one Dart recovered a judgment for $12,500 against McDonald in a
superior court of Washington. In February, 1924, Dart
assigned this judgment to Roche. In March, McDonald
being then temporarily employed in Oregon, Roche
brought suit against him upon this judgment in a circuit
court of that State. He was personally served with a
summons, appeared and demurred to the complaint. This
demurrer was overruled. He then elected to plead no
further and did not answer the complaint. Subsequently,
in October, 1924-more than six years after the rendition
of the Washington judgment-judgment was rendered
143 Stat. 936, c. 229; printed as an Appendix to the Revised Rules
of this Court, 266 U. S. 687.
2Sec. 237(c) of the Judicial Code, as amended.

ROCHE v. McDONALD.
449

Opinion of the Court.

against him in default of answer for the amount of the
original judgment, with interest.
Shortly thereafter, Roche brought this suit against
McDonald, upon the Oregon judgment, in the superior
court of Washington. McDonald answered, denying the
validity of the Oregon judgment under a Washington
statute which provided that after six years from the rendition of any judgment it should cease to be a charge
against the judgment debtor, and no suit should be had
extending its duration or continuing it in force beyond
such six years.' Roche replied, setting up and relying
upon the full faith and credit clause of the Constitution.
.The superior court entered judgment for McDonald.
This was affirmed by the Supreme Court of Washington,
which held that under the Washington statute the original
judgment expired at the end of six years from its rendition and could not be extended by another suit; that
having been rendered when the original judgment 'had
become a nullity, the Oregon judgment had no legal
foundation, and, as it'
would have been void and of no
effect if rendered under like circumstances by a court of
Washington, could be given no force or effect when sued
upon in Washington; and that under the full faith and
credit clause the courts of Washington "are not bound to
give fulf faith and credit to the Oregon judgment according to its literal terms, but are privileged and have the
duty to view that judgment in the light of the foundation
upon which it rests and the judgment law of our own
state." 136 Wash. 322.
It is settled by repeated decisions of this Court that
the full faith and credit clause of the Constitution requires
that the judgment of a State court which had jurisdiction
of the parties and the subject-matter in suit, shall be
given in the courts of every other State the same credit,
validity and effect which it has in the State where it was
3Laws of 1897, c. 29; Remington's Compiled Statutes, §§ 459-460.

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

rendered, and be equally conclusive upon the merits; and
that only such defenses as would be good to a suit thereon
in that State can be relied on in the courts of any other
State. Mills v. Duryee, 7 Cranch 481, 484; Hampton v.
McConnel, 3 Wheat. 234, 235; D'Arcy v. Ketchum, 11
How. 165, 175; Cheever v. Wilson, 9 Wall. 108, 123;
Hancock National Bank v. Farnum, 176 U. S. 640, 643;
Tilt v. Kelsey, 207 U. S. 43, 57; Converse v. Hamilton,
224 U. S. 243, 259. This rule is applicable where a judgment in one State is based upon a cause of action which
arose in the State in which it is sought to be enforced, as
well as in other cases; and the judgment, if valid where
rendered, must be enforced in such other State although
repugnant to its own statutes. Christmas v. Russell, 5
Wall. 290, 302; Fauntleroy v. Lum, 210 U. S. 230, 236;
Kenney v. Supreme Lodge, 252 U. S. 411, 415.
In Christmas v. Russell, supra, the defendant, a resident
of Mississippi, executed there a promissory note, which
was endorsed by the payee to the plaintiff, a resident of
Kentucky. After action on this note had been barred by
the Mississippi statute of limitation, the defendant having
come into Kentucky on a visit, was there sued on the note.
His defense on the statute of limitations of Mississippi
was overruled, and judgment was entered for the plaintiff.
The plaintiff then brought suit upon this Kentucky judgment in the Federal circuit court of Mississippi, where the
defendant made defense under another statute of Mississippi, which provided that no action should be maintained
on any judgment rendered against a resident of the State
by any court without the State where the cause of action
would have been barred by limitation if the suit had been
brought within the State. The defense was overruled,
and judgment entered for the plaintiff. This was affirmed
here on the ground that under the full' faith and credit
clause this Mississippi statute was unconstitutional and
void as affecting the right of the plaintiff to enforce the

ROCHE v. McDONALD.
449

Opinion of the Court.

Kentucky judgment; the Court saying that since that
judgment was valid in Kentucky and conclusive between
the parties there, it was not competent for any other
State to authorize its courts to open the merits and review
the cause, or to enact that such a judgment should not
receive the same faith and credit that by law it had in the
courts of the State from which it was taken.
In Fauntleroyv. Lur, supra,the original cause of action
arose in Mississippi out of a gambling contract in cotton
futures. The laws of Mississippi made dealing in futures
a misdemeanor, and provided that such contracts should
"not be enforced by any court." The controversy had
been submitted to arbitration, and an award made against
the defendant. Thereafter, finding the defendant temporarily in Missouri, the plaintiff brought suit there upon
the award. The court refused to allow the defendant to
show the nature of the transaction and its illegality Under
the laws of Mississippi, and entered judgment for the
plaintiff. Suit was then brought upon this Missouri judgment in a court of Mississippi. Judgment was entered
for the defendant which was affirmed by the Supreme
Court of Mississippi. This Court, in reversing that judgment, said: " The doctrine laid down by Chief Justice
Marshall was 'that the judgment of a state court should
have the same credit, validity, and effect, in every other
court in the United States, which it had in the State where
it was pronounced, and that whatever pleas would be good
to a suit thereon in such State, and none others, could be
pleaded in any other court in the United States.' Hampton v. McConnel, 3 Wheat. 234. . . . Whether the
award would or would not have been conclusive, and
whether the ruling of the Missouri court upon that matter was right or wrong, there can be no question that the
judgment was conclusive in Missouri on the validity of
A judgment is conclusive as
. .
the cause of action.
to all the media concludendi, United States v. California

454

OCTOBER TERM, 1927.
Opinion of the Court.

275 U. S.

& Oregon Land Co., 192 U. S. 355; and it needs no authority to show that it cannot be impeached either in or out
of the State by showing that it was based upon a mistake
of law. Of course a want of jurisdiction over either the
person or the subject-matter might be shown. Andrews
v. Andrews, 188 U. S. 14; Clarke v. Clarke, 178 U. S. 186.
But as the jurisdiction of the Missouri court is not open
to dispute the judgment cannot be impeached in Mississippi even if it went upon a misapprehension of the Mississippi law." This case was cited and followed in American Express Company v. Mullins, 212 U. S. 311, 314, holding that under the full faith and credit clause a judgment
in one State was conclusive as to all the media concludendi, and could not be impeached in another State by
showing that it was based upon a mistake of law.
In Kenney v. Supreme Lodge, 252 U. S. 411, a suit was
brought in Illinois upon an Alabama judgment based upon
a cause of action which under an Illinois statute could
not be brought or prosecuted in that State. This Court,
in holding that the Illinois statute was repugnant to the
full faith and credit clause, said: " In Fauntleroy v. Lum,
210 U. S. 230, it was held that the courts of Mississippi
were bound to enforce a judgment rendered in Missouri
upon a cause of action arising in Mississippi and illegal
and void there. The policy of Mississippi was more actively contravened in that case than the policy of Illinois'
is in this. Therefore the fact that here the original cause
of action could not have been maintained in Illinois is not
an answer to a suit upon the judgment. See Christmas
v. Russell, 5 Wall. 290; Converse v. Hamilton, 224 U. S.
243."
The Fauntleroy case is directly controlling here. The
court of Oregon had jurisdiction of the parties and of the
subject-matter of the suit. Its judgment was valid and
conclusive in that State. The objection made to enforce-

GULF,
449

R. R. v. WELLS.

ETC.,

Syllabus.

ment of that judgment in Washington is, in substance,
that it must there be denied validity because it contravenes the Washington statute and would have been void
if rendered in a court of Washington; that is, in effect,
that it was based upon an error of law. It cannot be impeached upon that ground. If McDonald desired to rely
upon the Washington statute as a protection from any
judgment that would extend the force of the Washington
judgment beyond six years from its rendition, he should
have set up that statute in the court of Oregon and submitted to that court the question of its construction and
effect. And even if this had been done, he could not
thereafter have impeached the validity of the judgment
because of a misapprehension of the Washington law. In
short, the Oregon judgment, being valid and conclusive
between the parties in that State, was equally conclusive
in the courts of Washington, and under the full faith and
credit clause should have been enforced by them.
The judgment of the Supreme Court of Washington is
reversed; and the case remanded for further proceedings
not inconsistent with this opinion.
Writ of error dismissed; certiorari granted; reversed.
GULF,

MOBILE

AND

NORTHERN

RAILROAD

COMPANY v. WELLS.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF MISSISSIPPI.

No. 39.

Argued October 18, 1927.-Decided January 3, 1928.

1. A judgment for damages cannot stand in an action under the Federal Employers' Liability Act if, under the applicable principles of
law as interpreted by the federal courts, the evidence was not suffi-

cient in kind- or amount to warrant a finding that the negligence
alleged was the cause of the injury. P. 457.
2. A brakeman, in seeking to board the caboose of a local freight
train moving at ten miles per hour, ran to it from where he had

