THE DECISIONS
OF

THE

SUPREME COURT OF THE UNITED STATES,
AT

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

ALEXANDER

G.

McNuTT, GOVERNOR OF MIeSISSIPPI, WHO SUES FOR

THE USE OF LEGoETT, SmITH, AND LAWRENCE, V. RICHARD
AND BENAxIN

G.

J.

BLAND

HumPHREY8.

By a law of 'the state of Mississippi,,sheriffis are required to give bond to the
governor for the faithful performance of their duty.
A citizen of another state has a right to sue upo'n this bond, the fact that the
governor and party sued are citizens of the same state, will not oust the
jurisdiction of the Circuit Court of the United States, provided the party, for
whose use'the suit is brought, is a citizen of another state.
Under the resolution -passed by Congress in 1789, relating to the use of state
jails, and the law of Mississippi passed in 1822, a sheriff has no right-to discharge a prisoner in custody by process from the Circuit Court, unless such
discharge is sanctioned by an act of Congress, or the mode of it adopted as a
rule by the Circuit Court of the United States.

THis case 'was.brQught up by writ of error from the Circuit Cojirt
of the United States for the Southern District of Mississippi.
It was a suit upon a sheriff's bond, given by Bland, sheriff of
Claiborne county, dated 10th November, 1837, and in the penalty
of $15,000.
At the May term, 1837, of the Circuit Court of the United States
for the Southern Ditrct of Mississippi, Leggett, Smith, and Lawrence, citizens of New- York, instituted a suit against George W.
McNider, a citizen of Mississippi, and in November following
obtained a judgment for $3910 78.
On the 30th December, 1837,'Leggett,'Smith, and Lawrence sued
out a writ of capu= ad satisflacndurm, against the body of the said
VOL. U.-2
9

10

SUPREME COURT.
'McNutt v. Bland et al.

George McNider, which was directed to the marshal of the state of
Mississippi. The writ was executed, and McNider taken into custody.
The marshal handed him over for safe keeping to Blaid, the sheriff
of Claiborne county.
Whilst thus in custody, McNider applied to McDougall, a judge
of probate, duly commissioned in and for the county of Claibome,
for the benefit of the insolvent law of the state of Mississippi, passed
in June, 1822. The forms of that law being complied -withr, the
judge directed McNider to be discharged from imprisonment, and
the sheriff accordingly discharged him.
At May term, 1839, Leggett, Smith, and Lawrence brought suit
against the sheriff and his securities, of whom Humphreys was one,
using for this purpose the name of the governor of Mississippi,
to whom the bond had been given. The breach assigned was
that the said Bralnd, in violation of his duty as sheriff, did discharge, release, and set at liberty his said prisoner, not by force or
operation of law or in pursuance of any power or process emanating
therefrom, but in violation thereof, and without the license or consent of said plaintiffs, or of their lawful agent or attorneys, and.against
their Will, they the said plaintiffs being wholly unsatisfied and unpaid,
and sdid judgment aforesaid being then and there iA full force and
effect, and not in any respect reversed or annulled, paid off, or discharged.
The defendants pleaded two pleas:
1. That the act of June, 1822, passed by the legislature of
Mississippi, provided amongst other things that where an insolvent
person should not be able to satisfy or pay his ordinary prison fees,
if the creditor, upon .notice given to him or her, his or her attorney
or agent,, should refuse to give security to the jailer or slieriff for the
payment of such prison fees, or shbuld fail to pay the same vhen
remaided, the sheriff or jailer should discharge such debtor out of
prison ; and it was further provided that whereas it 'vas unreasonable
that sheriffs-should be obliged to go out of their counties to give
notice to creditors at whose suit "anyperson might be in custody of
such sheriff, where any execution should be delivered to ttfe sheriff
of any other county than that where any creditor resided, such creditor should name some person in the county where the execution
whs to be levied, to be his, her, or their -gent for the particular purpose of giving to and receiving from- the sheriff any notices wY%,ch
might be necessary relating thereto; and if any creditor should i-0

J ANUARY

TE AM,

1844.

11

McNutt v. Bland e t'aL

to appoint such agent, the sheriff should not be obliged to give
notice previous to the discharge of such,prisoner'for want of security
horis
prison feds, but such prisoner should be discharged without
any notice to be given to the creditor so failing.
The defendants then averred that LZggett, Smith, and Lawrence,
at the time of the commitment, were not residents of 'Claiborne
county, nor were they ever so afterwards, and that they failedoto
appoint any agent or att6rney to receive a notice from the sheriff;
that McNider was unable to pay his prison fees, and t6at the plaintiffs wholly failed to give security to the sheriff for the payment of
..
t ..
the said prison fees.
2. That McNider was regularly, and according to the provisions
of the acts of the legislature of Missigsippi for the relief of insolvent
debtors, brought before McDougall, a judge of probate, and then
and there, by the order and warrant of the said -judge, discharged
from -the custody of the said sheriff.
The replication of the'plaintifts to the first plea was, that at the
time of the discharge of,McNider, they had an agent residing within
the state of Mississippi, to wit, in the county of Warren, and that no
application whatever was made to the plaintiffs or their agent, for
'the payment pf jail fees, or to give security for the same; nor was
any notice whatever given to the plaintiffs or their agent or attorney
of an intention to discharge the prisoner, or of his application to be
discharged, either for that cause or any other.
The replication to the second pla was, that the prisoner was, by
virtue of process legally issuing from the Circuit Court of the United
States, taken into custody by the nrarshal of the district,-and by him
was delivered to the defendant, Bland, for 'safe keeping, who was
then sheriff of the' county in which the 'prisoner was taken. That,
the prisoner was not,discharged fiom custody aforesaid -by virtue of
any process emanating fiom any court of the United States or judge
thereof, nor by virtue of any law of the 'United States, but that he
was discharged contrary to the provisions of the several. acts of Congress made and provided, prescribing the mode and manner of dis,"
charging prisoners confined under process fromthe courts--of the
United States. .- I
To both these replications the defendant demurred. There was
a joinder in demurrer as to the first; whatwas'done'with the-second,
the record did not show.
The court below sustained both demurrers.

12

SUPREME COURT.
McNutt v. Bland et al.

Joe, for the plainffs in error.
Walker, for the defendants.
Jones contended
1. That the laws of the-United States and of Mlississippi, and the
bond of the sheriffT, bound the defendant to receive and hold McNider
as a prisoner, under the laws and jurisdiction of the United States,
-not of the state of Mississippi.
2. That the pleas of the defendant were insufficient, and'whether
the replications were good or not, the court would 'look to the first
error in the pleadings, the insufficiency of the pleas.
3. That the United States and Mississippi have each separate
systems for insolvent debtors; that they cannot be reconciled with
each other.
4. That the courts of the United States and of the states can each
look only to their respective systems and act upon them.
5. That the state courtA cannot discharge a debtor in confinement
undei execution from a court of the United States, either under the
laws of insolvency, or by any other state authority.
He considered this- case as coming fully within the principle established by this court in Duncan v. Darst, 1 Howard, 301. No
state can change the laws of ihe United States. The insolvent law
of Mississippi is confined to cases where persons are under execution
by process issued by any court of. record withih the state. 1 Howard and Hutchinson, 637.. It provides also, that no creditor shall
receive any thing- unles§ -he shall have obtained a judgment. The
discharge by the sheriff in consequence of not being indemnified is
also a branch of the state system. - The ,marshal. could not have
discharged the prisoner, and the sheriff was pro hac vice the marshal.
The latter. was responsible to the former for.the fees.
Walker contended that the equity of the case was with the defendants, inasmuch aa the discharge had been ordered by a court of
competent jurisdiction, which would have enforced its order by an
attachment. The first replication averred that the plaintith had an
agent in an adjoining county, which was tendering 'an immateriar
issue. The demurrer to this was therefore properly sustained There
was no question raised below as to the pow.r of the state. But the
court below had no jurisdietioD in the case, as it was between citizens'of the same state. Although this court hqs decided that where'
the real. party is out of the itate, he -may use.'the name of a nominal'

JANrUARY TERMi 1844..

13

McNutt r. Bland et-al.

plaintiff within'it, yet it has also decided that where the assignment
-is by oLeation of law, such a plaintiff cannot 'sue. The law of
Mississippi gives no right of action on a sheriff's bond, but provides
other remedies! Howard and Hutchinson,. 625 et seq. They are
by motion against the sheriff and his securities.
Jones, in reply.
The replication must be overlooked, if the plea itself is bad,
which is the case here; It is settled thatthe real party to a suit is
the party for whose use it is brought. The governor's name is only
used proform, If the argument on the bther side be sound, .there
is no remedy on the bond at all; for'an escape could not be tried
upon motion. The object of requiring a bond was to secure the
interest of all the citizens of the state, and yet the bond would become
of no use in cases of escape. The law of, Mississippi accepting the
Resolutions of 1789, gives a remedy-to all parties concerned Howard and Hutchinson, 49.
Mr. Justice BALDWIN delivered the opinion of the court.
As the judgment, below was rendered on a general demurrer, it
is necessary to ascertain in what part of the pleadings the first demurmbl defect occurred, which the defendant here alleges was in the
declaration, inasmuchi as it appears that the plaintiffis and defendants
were citizens of Mississippi, and consequently the court below had
not.jurisdiction of the case.
By the law of that state, How. and Hut. 290, 291, all sheriffs must
give a bond to the governor of the state for the time being, and his.
successoir, conditioned for the faithful performance of the duties of
his office; which bond may be put in suit "and prosecuted from
time to time at the costs and charges of any party injured, until the
whole amount of the penalty thereof be recovered. This suit was
accordi.gly brought in the name of the governor, -for the use of Leg-;
get, Smith, and Lawrence, citizens of New York.
The parties in interest, therefore, had a right to sue the defendants
in"
the Circuit Court in their own iames, by a bill, in equity in ai
appropriate use, or by an action of debt, of for an escape against
the sheriff' himself, as in Darst v. Duncan, 1 How. 301, if he made
out a cause of action in either form, and we can perceive no sound
reason for denying the right of prosecuting the same cause of action
against the sheriff and his sureties in the bond, by and in the name
of the governor, who is a purely naked trustee f'r any party injured.
B

14

SUPREME COURT.
McNutt v. Bland et al.

He is a mere conduit through whom the law afiords a remedy to the
person injured by the acts or omissions of the sheriff; the governor
cannot prevent the institution or prosecution of the suit, nor has he
any control over it. The real and only 'plaintiffs are the plaintiffs in
the exeoution, who have a legal right to make the bond available for
their indemnity, which right could not be contested in a suit in a
state court of Mississippi, nor in a Circuit Court of the United States,
in any other mode of proceeding than on the sheriff's bond.
It would "bea glaring defect in the jurisprudence of the United
States, if aliens or citizens of other states should be deprived of the
right of suit on sherifl' bonds in the federal courts sitting in Mississippi, merely because they were taken in the name of the governor
for the use of the plaintiffs in mesne or final process, who are in law
and equity the beneficiary obligees; we think this defect does not exist.
The constitution extends the judicial power to controversies between
citizens of different states; the 11th section of the Judiciary act
gives jurisdiction tW the Circuit Courts, of suits between a citizen of
the state where the suit is brought, and a citizen of another state.
In this case there is a controversy and suit between citizens of New
York and Mississippi; there is neither between the governor and the
defendants: as the instrument of the state law to afford a remedy
against the sheriff and his sureties, his name is in the bond and to
the suit upon it, but in no just 'view of the constitution or law can
he.be.considered as a litigant party: both look to things not namesto the actors in controversies and suits, not to the mere forms or inactive instruments used in conducting them, in virtue of some
positive law.
This court must have acted on these principles in Browne et al. v.
Strode, 5 Cranch, 303, which was a suit on an administration bond of an
executor, for the faithful execution of the testator's will, in conformity
with a law of Virginiai 5 Hen. st. 461, which requires all such bonds to
be payable to the justices of the county court, where administration
is granted, but may be put in suit and prosecuted by, and at the
costs of the party injured. The object of that suit was to recover a
debt due by the testator to a British subject; the defendant was a
citizen of Virginia; the persons named in the declaration as plaintiffs
were the justices of the~county, who were also citizens of'Virginia,
yet it was held that the Circuit Court of that state had jurisdiction.
We 'are aware of no subsequent decision of this court, which in the
least impairs the authority of that case, or contravenes the principle

JANUARY

TERM, 1844..

15

McNatt v. Bland ot al.

on which it was decided ; that where the real and only controversy
is between citizens of different states, or an alien and a citizen, and
the plaintiff is by some positive law compelled to use-the name of a
public officer who has not, or ever had any interest in, or control
over it, the courts of the United" States will not consider any others
as parties to the suit, than the persons between whom the litigation
before them ekists.
Executors and administrators are not. in this position, they are
the actors in suits brought by them; the personal property of the
decedent is vested in them; the persons to whom they are accountable, for whose benefit they act, can bring no suit to assert their
rights against third persons, be the cause of action what it may; nor
can they interfere with the conducting of 'the suit to assert their
rights to the property of the decedent, which do not vest .in them.
The personal representative is, therefore, the real party ii iterest
before the court, 12 Pet. 171,-and succeeds to all the rights of those
they represent, by operation of law; ,and no other lersons are capable, as representatives of the personalty, of suing or being sued.
They are contradistinguished, -therefore, from assignees who claim
by the act of the parties, and may sue inwthe federal courts- in cases
where the decedent could not. 8 Wheat. 668; 4 Cranch, 308, S. P.
By the 11th section of the Judiciary act, assignees cannot sue where
the assignor could not, nor can they sue in their own names if the
assignor could, unless.the assignees werl aliens or citizens of another
state than that of the defendant, and the instrument sued, on was so
assigned as to vest the right of action in the assignees, in -which
latter case, the suit must be by the party originally entitled to sue.
Thus where the payee of a promissory note, -which was' neither
negotiable nor assignable, so as to sustain an action by the assignees,
sued for the use of a corporation incapable of suing in the federal
courts, this court held that the- Circuit Court had jurisdiction, on the
ground that the suit was on a contract between the plaintiff and defendant. The legal right of acting being inthe plainfiff,.it mattered
not for -whose use the suit was brought, the parties being -citizens of different states. Irvine v. Lowry, i4 Pet. 298. In that
case the decision in 5 Cranch was reviewed and affirmed; and as-it
is in all respects analogous toit must govern this and similarcases,
-wherethe cause of action is not founded on a contract between the
parties or their legal representatives.
The objection to the jurisdiction cannot, therefore,-be sustained.

16

SUPREME COURT.
McNutt v. Bland et aL

The next question arises on the defendants' first plea in bar, which
sets up a discharge of the prisoner by the sheriff, in default of the
plaintiff in 'the execution paying.the prison fees due, pursuant to the
act of 22d June, 1822, sects. 35j 47 ; Hut. and How. 640--644.
This law, by its-own force, cannot apply'to persons committed on
-executions from the courts of the United States, it must first be
adopted by-act 6f Congr-ss, or some rule of court under the authority
coierred on the courts 6f the United States bylaw. It is apeculiar
mupicipal regulation, applicable and intended to apply only to persons committed under state process, as -clearly appears by the 132 seetion of the-same law, in the-revised code, as to process of the United
States. How. and Hut. 649, 650. Afier reciting in full the reso.lution of Congress'relating to, jails, passed in 1789, 1 Story, 70, it
proceeds, cc"And.whereas it is just and reasonable to aid the United
States therein, on the terms aforesaid, until other provisions shall be
made in the premises, it is enacted, That all sheriffs, &c., within
this state, to whom any person or persons shall be senf or committed
by virtue of legal process, issued by oy under the authority of the
United States, shall be, and are hereby -required to receive such
prisoners into ctistody, and to keep the same safely until they shall
be discharged by due,course of law, and be liable to the same pains
and penalties, and the parties aggrieved be entitled' to the same
remedies, as if such prisoners had been committed under the authority
of the state. The sheriff may.require of the marshal the fulfilment
of the proposals of the geneial government, with regard to rent and
sustenance, at least quarter yearly; and on the discharge of the
prisoner shall make a stateiment of charges, &c., to enable him to
make his return to the proper department of the general government.?'
Taldng this section of- the law in connection -with. the resolution
of. 1789, there appears an evident intention in the legislature, that
the law',should cover the whole resolution, so as ts carry it into effect
in all its parts and, provisions. Hence the terms in-each must.be
*made to harmonize; whereby the. phrase in the 62d'section,. cc and
tb keep the same safely until they shall be discharged by due course
of law," will be referred to the corresponding phrase in the.resolution, Cuntil they skall.be discharged by due course of the law. thereof," (the United States,) so as to authorize no discharge by virtue of
any state law, incompatible with the resolution. If any doubt could
arise on these words in the resdlution, ;c all prisoners committed under
the authority of the United States," whether they applied to cases

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

IT

MeNutt %;Blenid et al.

between individuals, itis removed by the exjlicit language.of -the
law, -cc
any person -or-persons who shall be sent or committed by
virtue of legal process, issued by, or under the guthority of the United'
States,"'&c., "cand the parties, aggrieved shall be entitled to the
,same remedies," &c., Which necessarily embrace all cases, civil or
criminal:
As it would be wholly inconsistent with this view of the resolution and law, for the kgislature to anthoriie the sheriff to .dischargeany person from. custody, otherwis6 than-.by-the due course of the
lawg of the United States, -we cannot attribute such an .intention to
them, unless the words of their act clearly indicate it;, but there is
nothing in the act to that effect, or any words *hich admit of such
construction. On the- contrary, as the resolution of Congress posiiively requires it, a4 the prpemble to the- 9tate law'declares it to be
cjujst.and reasonable t.aid the United States therein," the enacting
part must be. takef-.accordingly; otherwise the7 law,wduld conflict
with the resolution.
The act of Congress passedn 1800 provides for th(I mode
6f discharging .insolvent *debtors," dobimitted under .process from
the courts of the United States, and the, cases in which -it
may be
dbhe; it is obligatory on the sheriffs' i" every county of the :states
-who have acceded to the resoluti6n of 1789, and no dishargd
under any state law not acopted by Congress, or a rule 6f cour4
can exonerate the officer.
ide l Story, 115 "3 Story, 1932,-1939;
Suydam v. Broadnak; 14 Pet. 75; 10 Wheat 36,37., From the time
of Palmer and Allen, 7 Cianch). 554, to Darst v. Duncan, the 'Ianguage'and dectsions of thi]s court have been, uniform for more than
forty years, that a state'law, -whish is ,ea peculiar municipal regulatign, not'hMving any immediate relation tO the'progress of a suit, but
imposing a restraint 'on state officers in the execution of the process
of their courts, is altogether inoperative *upoi the officers of the
United-States i the-exieution of the mandates'-which-issue to them.

'Bythe process acts of 1789,1792, and 1828; Congress hay'e adopted
such dtate laws as prescribe the modes of process -and proceedings
in'suits at common law, as are not in. conflict .with the 'laws of the
United'States, 'which can he executed by the coui of the United
States; which impdse no restraint-on; or obstruction of their process
from its incepiov ill ultimate satisfaction from the defendant, or the"
marshal, sheri., or other ofcer, infusted with its execution." 2 Pet.
525J. 10.Wheat. 40, 56, &-c." Congress, however, did not intend
VOL. 3.-3
'32

.

18

SUPREME COURT.
McNutt v. Bland et a].

to defeat the execution of judgments rendered in the courts of the
United States, but meant they should have full effect by force of the
state laws adopted, and therefbre all state laws regulating proceedings affectigg isolvent persons," or that are addressed to state courts
or magistrates in other respects, which confer peculiar powers on
such courts and magistrates, do not bind the federal courts, because,
they have no power to execute such laws. 1 How. 306 ; 14 Pet.
74, S. P. For these reasons we are of opinion that the defendants'
first plea is defective, in not setting.forth a case which juslifies the
discharge of the person committed on the execution.
The. second plea sets up a discharge of the prisoner pursuant to
the laws of Mississippi, as an insolvent debtor, by order of a judge
of probate; which presents a ease -covered by the decision of this
court in Darst v. Duncan, that such a discharge by a sheriff was
no defence to an action of debt for an escape. I How. 304. The
judgment of the court below .must therefore be reversed, and
judgment rendered for the plaintiff.
Mr.. Justice DANIEL dissented.
From the opinion just pronounced on.the part of the court in this
cause, I am constrained to differ. Although'it ever must be with
unaffected diffidence that-I. sball find myself opposed to a majority
of my brethren, still a feeling like that just adverted to, should not,
and properly cannot, induce in me a relinquishment of conclusions
formed from examinations carefully made, and upon decisions which
appear to be distinctly, as they have been repeatedly announced.
My opinion. is, that the judgment of the Circuit Court against the
plaintiff below, ought to be affirmed, for the reason that the court
could not properly take cognisance of his cause. Under systems of
polity compounded as are the federal and state governments of this
Union, instances of conflicting power and jurisdiction, real or apparent, will frequently arise, and will sometimes run into niceties cal-culated to perplex the most astute and practised expositors. For
myself, 'I must believe that the surest preventive of such instances,
their safest and most effectual remedy when they shall occur, will
be found in an adherence to 'limits which language in its generally
received acceptation prescribes, and in shunning not merely that
which such acceptation may palpably forbid; but, as lar as possible,
whatever is ambiguous or artifidial. In adopting or commending the
rule thus indicated, I undertake to propound no new principle of

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

19

McNutt v.. Bfa.d et. al.

construction to this court, to essay no innovation upon its dbotrines.
I plant myself, on the contrary, upon its oft repeated' decisions, and
invoke their protection for the inteipretation now insisted upon..
.The action in the Circuit Court was instituted in the name of
Alexander McNutt, governor of the state of Mississippi, (who was
the successor of Charles Lynch,) who -sues for the -use of Thomas
Leggett and others, citizens of the state of New York, against Bland,
Humphreys, and Geissen, citizens of the state of Mississippi. It was
founded on a bond executed by Bland, as sheriff of the county of
-Claiborne in fhe.stat above mentioned. The -pleadings, so far-as
they relate to the conduct. of the. sheriff in fulflment, of his .duties, or
in dereliction ,thereofy are irrelevant to the question here raised, and
need not therefore be examined. The proper question. for consideration here is this-whether upon -the case as presented upon the declaration, the Circuit Court-of Mississippi could take jurisdiction.
McNutt is the party, plaintiff upon the record, in whom iI the legal
right of action. Leggett and others, who are said to be th6 benefi,ciaries in the suit, and in whom is the equitable interest, are not the
legal parties to- the. suiit at law, and could not:maintain an action
lipon the bond to which they*were, aot parties.
Is McNutt to be considered as suing in his -private individual
character, and the addition c governor of the state of Mississippi," to be
regarded as merely. a-phrase of descripti6n ? .Oris he to be viewed
as the representative of the ptte of Mississippi, or rather as identified
with the sovereignty'Qf that- state, and having vested- in him Ihe
exercise of her executive authority ?-Let both branches of this
inquiry be cursorily pursded. If McNutt is to be regarded-as a private party to the action, whether 'nhis cwn interest, or as the private
agent of the state for cbrtain purposes.,'t would indeed seem to be too
late, and entirely supererogatory, to -construct an argument to prove,
that to warrant either the. commencement or prosecution of a suit in
his name in"
a Circuit Court of the United States, his citizenship must
be 'averred and shown upon the record.- Decisions to this effect.may
be said to have been piled'upon the.question, for tey may be traced
from aperiod coeval almost with the passage of the judicial act, down
to a comparatively recent .day; rangingthrough at least ten vdlumes
of the decisions of.this court: and ruling, it is believed without an
exception, that wherever jurisdiction is to be claimed from the citizenship or alienage of paL-ies, such citizenship or alienage -must be
expressly- set forth.: ruling moteover, that wherever juisdictio,. is

f ,

SUPREME CO.URT.
McNutt v. Bland et a].

claimed from the'character of parties, it-must he understood as meaning the parties to the record.
. The first case in support of these positions, is that of Bingham v.
Cabof et al., from 3 Dall. 382, instituted.in 1797,in which the plain-.
tiffs were styled in nar. as-John Cabot, (with the co.paintil, ) described as being " all of our said district of Massachusetts," and-as
complaining that "said William at Boston being indebted, &c-.--Lee, attorney-general, insisted "that there was n6t a'suffcient 41Uegation in the record of the citizenship of the parties to maintain the
jurisdiction of. the Circuit Courti -which is of limited jurisdiction."
Dexter., on the,6ther hand, urged- *that stating in the declaration the
party to be of a particular place,, designates his honie, and of course
his citizenship." The court were clearly of opinion, " that it was necessary to set forth the citizenship (or alienage where a foreigner was
concerned) of te respective.parties, in. order to bring the case'within
the jurisdiction of the Circuii Court." In the year 1797, were decided in the Supreme Court the cases.of Turner v. Eurille, and of
Tuiner, idmin , &c., v. The Bank of North America, .reported in
4 Dall., the former at pp. 7 ad8, the latter.on pp. 8, 9, 10 and, 11.
The declaretion in the former case set dut a demand by the Marquis
, against Stanley nd
de Casa Eurille, of --- , in the island of the intestate of Turner and Greene, merchants and partners at Newbern in -the said 4istrict. Upon objection to the jurisdiction for want
'of a proper descriptidn of parties--By the court-" The decision in
the case of Bingham v. Cabot et al. 'rust~govem the present case;'
.'let - the judgment.be reversed with costs." Tiner, admin. of Stanley, v. The Bank of North America was an action upon a promissory
note drawi at Philadelphia by Stanley, endorsed by'Biddle and Company to the Bank of North Airerica. The nar. stated that the president and. directors were citizens 'of the state-of Pennsylvania, that
'Turner the administrator, and Stanley.the intestate:were:citizens of
tbe state.of North Carolina; but of Biddle and Company, the payers
anid endorsers, there wns no other descriptioz, than " that they used
trade and merchandise at Philadelphii or North Carolina." Ells.,worth, chief justice in delivering the .opinion of the court; after
remarking that the Bank of NorthAmerica) a" well as the 'drawer
of the -no e, was properly described, proceeds thus: " The: error
*ssigned is, that it does not -appea ftrom the record that Biddle and
Cbmpany, the, promisees, or any of them, are citizens of.a state other
than that 'of North Carolina., The Circuit'Court, though an.inferior
-

JANUARY

TERM, 1844.

21

McNutt v. Bland -et al.

court in the language of the Constitution is not -soin the language
of the common law; A .Circuit Court, however, is of limited jurisdiction, and has cognisance not of cases generally, but only of a few
specially circumstanced; and a fair priesumption is, not (as -with
regard to a court of general jurisdiction)-that a cause is'within its"
jurisdiction unless the contrary appears, but rather that a cause is
-without its jurisdictidn till the contrary appears. 'This, renders it
necessary to set forth, upon the record of a -Circuit Court, the facts
and circumstaices Which give jurisdiction, either exprissly or in
such manner as to render them certain by Jpga[ intendment. Among
those circumstances, it is neeessary, where .th defendant is a itizen
of one state, to show that the plaintiff ii a citizen of some other
state, or an alien. Here the description of the promisee, only is, that
he used trade at Philadelphia 'or North Carolina, which contains no
averment that he was-a.citizdn of a state other thai North Carolina,
or an alien. We must theiefore say there was error . " InMossman
v. Higginsorf, 4' Dall. 14, the same'doctrifie is affirmed,' and the
court -conclude their opinion with the following explicit language:

"cNeither the Constitution; nor the. act of Congress, regards, on this
point, fhe subject of the suit, but the parties. A descriptioi of the
parties is therefore indispensable to the exercise of jurisdiction.
There is, here no such description." The case of Course et al. V,.
Stearl et ux,, 4.Dall. p. 22, is marked by one trait. which peculiarly
illustrates and enfordes .he principle rifled in the cases previously
cited. In this last, case,.a supplementa bill wis'filed making a new
party to a suit previously pending, but in the supplemental bill no
description :of the citizenship of this new defendant Was giveiv: ihe
absence of. such description having been. assigned for error, it was'
contended that such a description -was'not necessary in the supplemental suit, which is merely an incident of 'the original bill biought
in the same court; but the Supreme Court sustainea the objecti6nand reversed the decree of the Circuit Court on the ground of jtuisdiction. Next in the order of time is the ca.e of Wood v. Wagnon,
2 Cranch, 9. Where the statement i4 the pleadings'was that Wagnon, a citizenof Penniylvania, slioweth, that James1Nloa 1 of Georgia,"
&c. The judgment was reversed for the'defect that the plaintiff and
defendant were not shown by the pleadings to be citizens of different
states.
In- Hepburn and Dundas v. Elzey, 2 Cranch, 445, the decision
tumed upon a defeet in the description of. a party necessary to give

22

SUPREME COURT.
McNutt v. Bland et al.

jurisdiction. Winchester v. Jackson, 3 Cranch, 515. The writ
of error was dismissed for want of jurisdiction, the parties not appearing upon the record to be citizens of different states. In Kemp's
Lessee v. Xennedy, this court declare, that c"the courts of the United
States are all of limited jurisdiction, and their proceedings are erroneous if the jurisdiction be not shown upon them." 5 Crancb, 185.
The same in effect, the same indeed in terms, is the decision of this
court in Montalet v. Murray, 4 Cranch, 46. Again, the principle
that the character which authorizes access to the Circuit Court must
be apparent upon the record, is strikingly exemplified in, Chappedelaine et al. v. Dechenaux, 4 Cranch, 306. In this case, the plaintifif
were trustees, not suing in their own interest; yet as they were aliens
.and as such entitled to sue in the Circuit Courts of the United States,
this court, in virtue of that character, and their .itle flowing therefrom apparent on the record, sustained the jurisdiction" of the Circuit
Court. Passing, with a mere mention of them, the cases of the Hope
Insurance Company v. Boardman et al.,5 Cranch, 57; Hodgson and
Thompson v. Bowerbank et al., 5 Cranchr, 303; Skilmern's Ex'rs v.
May's Ex'rs, 6 Cranch, 267; The Corporation of New Orleans v.
Winter, I Wheaton, 91, all full io the .point; I will quote an emphatic and more comprehensive affirmation, of Judge Washington in
reference to the powers of the Circuit Courts, expressed in the opinion
of that judge in McCormick and Sullivant, 10 Wheat. 199: " They
are all (says he) of limited jurisdiction. If the jurisdiction be not
alleged in'the proceedings, their judgments and decrees are erroneous,
and may upon a writ of error 6r appeal be reversed for that cause."
But the fullest and clearest exposition and vindication of the doctrine
contended for in this opinion, will be found in the reasoning of Chief
Justice Marshall, in delivering the decision in the case of Osborn v.
The Bank of the United -States. -Theportion of the reasoning, particularly referred to commences on the 856th page of the 9th volume
of 'Wheaton: "The judicial power of the Union," says the chief
"justice, " is also'extended to-controversies between citizens of different states; -and it has been decided, that the character of the parties
must be shown on the record. Does this provision depend on the
character of those whose mterest is litigated, or of those who are
parties on the record ? In a suit, for example, brought by or -against
an executor, the creditors or legatees of his testator are the persons
really concerned in interest: but it has never been-suspected that, if
the execiator be a resident of another. state 'he jurisdiction of the

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

. 23

McNutt v. Bland et al.

federal courts could be ousted by the.fact that the creditors or legatees
were citizens of the same state with the opposite party. The universally received construction in this case is, that the jurisdiction is
neither given. nor ousted by. the relative situation of the parties -concerned in interest, but by the relative situation of the parties namedon the record., Why is this construction univeksal ? No case can*
be imagined in which' th6 existence of an interest out of the party onthe record is more unequivocal than in that which has been stated.
Why then is it universally admitted, that this interest in no manner
affects the jurisdiction of the court? The plain and obvious answer
is, because the jurisdiction-of the court depends not upon this interest,
but upon the actual party on the record." Again he remarks, p. 857,
-It may, we think, be laid down as a rule which admits of no
exception, that in all cases where jurisdiction depends on the party,
it is the party named in the record. Consequently, the 11th amendment, which restrains. the jurisdiction granted by the Constitution
over suits against states, is of necessity limited to those suii, in which
a state is a party on-the record."
This reasoning of the late chief justice seems to meet the present
case in every aspect of which it is' susceptible, and' to dispel every
shade of doubt that could - possibly be cast upon it. The doctrine
-thisreasoning so well sustains is reaffimned by the same judge, in
the still later case of the State of Georgia .v. Juan Madrazo,
1 Peters, 122; and-amongst other authorities there cited, the principles ruled as above mentioned in Osborne v. The Bank of the United
States are referred to and approved.
ide also Keary.et al. v. Tho
Farmers' and Mechanics' Bank of Memphis, 16 Pet. 90.
Alexander McNutt, in the case under examination, must b6 regarded as a private person acting in a private capacity; at most as. a mere
agent under a law of Mississippi, in whom the interests of other individuals inay to a particulai extent have been vested, and through whom
they were authorized to sue. He represented or was identified -with
no political or fiscal rights or interests, of the state of Mississippi.
That state had no interest involved in the conducting of that suit by
McNutt, and much less was' she a party to.the record. in that suit.
Standing then in the relation of a mere-agent in the transaction, aia
there being no law of the United States investing the federal courts
with jurisdiction as incident-to such agency, he could have access to.
those courts, and the courts themselves could have jurisdiction, solely
in virtue of his character of citizen of a.state different from that in
-

24

SUPREME COURT
MeNutt v. Bland et al.

which the defendants resided, and that character it was indispensable
should appear upon the record. These are positions which it has
seemed to me impossible successfully to assail; positions encompassed with a chain of authorities comprehending the entire existence and duration of the government itself. This, however, is said
to have been broken by the act of this court, and by that act an
opening made for farther power and jurisdiction in the Circuit CourtsThe'mean by which such important consequences are supposed to
have been effected, is the decision of the case of Browne et al. v.
Strode, to be found in 5 Cranch, 303. In this case, -which was submitted -without argument, and in which the certificate directed to the
Circuit Court is comprised in two lines, no reason whatever is assigned for the concluhion at which the court appear to have arrived.
The facts of the case5 as presinted iii the short abstract of it, are thus
stated: , ,,It was an action upon an executor's bond given in conformity with the laws of 'Virginia. The object of the suit was tb
recover a debt due from the testator in his lifetime to a British sub-.
ject. The defendant was a citizen of Virginia. The persons named
in.the declaration as plaintiTs, were the justices of the peace for the
county of Stafford, -and were all citizens of Virginia." - The court
ordered it to be certified aI. their opinion "cthat the court below has
jurisdiction in the case." This is the whole case, and it is confidently believed to stand entirely solitary; without support, and without
a likeness in the whole history of our jurisprudence: and, in -commenting upon this case, it maybe safely asserted, that if the court in
iheif certificate have intended to affinm, that the holders of equitable
interests, cestui ge trusts, who are not the holders of the legal interests, or rights of action at law, are in actions at law the regular and
proper parties to the -record, then; indeed, they have not merely
overtumed the series of decisions in this court, fiP.m he case of
Bingham v. Cabot, in 3 Dal, decided in 1798, down to the cse
of the Governor of Georgia v. Madrazo, 1 Peters. 110 ;-they have
reversed, moreover, what is believed has been regarded as a candn
df the law, wherever the principles of the common law have been
adopted; and this they have accomplished by one short sentence,
and without a single word to explain this mighty revolution. Bat
can it be reasonably presumed that this court have in so cursory a
mode intended to reverse its own well-considered, well-reasoned,
and oft-repeated decisions; and this, too,'without professing to review
them-nay, without one word of reference to them of any kind? A

JANUARY TERM, 1e44.

25

McNut-t v. Bland et aL

presumption like this seems scarcely compaible.-ith that cautious
reluctance with which innovation on settled principles is always admitted by the courts. Is it not far more probable, that the short and
isolated abstract i- question, exhibits 'an imperfect picture of 'the'
action and purposes of the court as applicable to some particular
state -of case which may -not 'be fully and accurately given, for the
record of the case. in the court below is not set out in extenso. But
let it be supposed that the objects and the language of the 'court,,in
the.ca.e of Browne and Strode, .e accurately givin; still the inquiry
recurs, does that case establish the law' of this cause at the present
day? Browne and Strode was decided in '1809. Trning, Tbi the
moment, from the decisions of this court -pridr to 1809, suppo'sed
(strong, and explcit, and numerous as they are) to have been silenfly
demolished by Browne. and- Strode, 'what must be understood with
respect to the decisiohs of Skillern's Ex'rs v. Mhy's Ex'rs, 6 Cranch,
267 - of Osborne v. he Bank of the United States, 9 Wheat. 733;
of 'McC6rmick v:.Sulivant, 10 Wheat. 199, and of The Governor of
Georgia v.Madtazo, I Peters, 110-all posterior in date to 1809?
If these cases are to be, received upon the import solely of their own
teims,, uninfluenced by any reference to prior decisions, till as they
are posteridrin -time to Browne and Strode, and are wholly irrecbncilable therewith, theyshould be' understood as controlling and
reversing that, decision. How much stronger then, nay how irresistible appears this c6nclusion, when it is ascertained that the seveial decisions subsequeit to '1809 refer expressly to those of 'previous
date, rely upori them as forming their'own foundation, and reaffirm
them as the law of the federal courts.
The only decision in this court which would appear, upon a superficial view, of it, to, give colour to the decision *ofBrowne. et al. v.
Strdde, is the case of Irvine v. Lowry reported in 14 Peters, 293.
An attentive examoination of the latter case, however, wil show that,
so far from resembling Browne and Strode, the facts of the two cases
differ essentially; and that the former does n6it sustain, but, in effect,
contradicts the latter. In Irvine v. Lowry the actiofr was in the
name of Irvine the payee of 'the note, for the benefit of the Lumberman's Bank. On behalf of Lowry' the defendant, excepton was
taken to the juisdiction upon the ground that the Lumberman's
Bank, the beneficiaries in the suit, consisted, in part, of persons who
were citizens of the same state to which the' defendant belonged.
The case of Browne et al. v Strode was 'relied on to show 'that these
VOL. 1.-4
C

SUPREME COURT.
McNutt v. Bland et al.

beneficiaries and not the nominal parties or those who held the legal
interest, should be considered the true parties on the record. This
exception was overruled, and the jurisdiction sustained in the name
of the party holding the legal right, in conformity -with the cmrent
of authoritie' before cited. 'Tis true that, in the opinion delivered
in this case, the decision in 'Browne et al. v. Strode is mentioned,
and accounted for upon an hypothesis which by no means divests it
ofits anomalous character, any more than it rests the case of Irvine
v. Lowry upon any real similitude with it. The argument is this,
hat although in 'Browne "etal. v.- Strode the plaintiffs and defendant
were citizens of the- same state, yet the -statute of Virginia, which
requires the' executor's bond for the protection of creditors and
legatees, passes the legal right to those whose interests the bond is
designed to protect. To this reasoning several answers at once present themselves, either of which appears to be sufficient. 1. If this
cauld be so understoodit would leave the objection precisely where
it stood before. The parties to the action would still be all citizens
to the some state, whereas the judicial act declares they shall be
(that is the plaintiffs and defendants) of different states. 2. The
Virginia statute professes to effect no such transmutation of legal
rights. 3. It confers no right of action. on the beneficiaries under
the bond. 4. It orders the pose~ution of the suit in the names of
the justices the obligees) and by consequence' forbids such proceeding in the names of any other persons. 5. In point of fact, in the
case commented on, (as doubtless would be found to be the fact in
every suit ever instituted under the statute,) the action was'brought
in the names of the justices, so that those whose interets were designed to be protected by.the bond, were never parties to the suit at
all, much less the real or only parties representing the right of action
under the bond.
My mind, then, is impelled, by considerations like these, to the
deductions, that Browne v. Strbde does not finish the rule for .the
decision of this cause; and that, if it ever was a rule for the federal
courts, it has been- clearly and emphatically annulled. As a'corollary
from the above reasoning and 'the ca.es adduced in support thereof,
it, follows, that Alexander McNutt, without appeaing as. the, party
plaintiff upon the record to be a citizen of some state other than that
ta which the defendants belong, could have no standing in the Circuit CQort ;. and that failing so to appear, the Circuit Court could
have no jufisditetiexi over the cause.

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

27

McNutt, v. Bland et aL

It cannot be requisite here to meet any argument, should my be
attempted, designed to maintain the right of McNutt to sue in virtue
of his character of governor of Mississippi, and as such representing
the sovereign or supreme executive power of that state. - In -that
aspect, the suit would be virtually by the state herself, and not be
the suit of Alexander McNutt; such a suit, too, could take place only
where some direct right or interest of the state should be involved.
Of such a controversy, the Circuit Court could unquestionably have
no jurisdiction; this having been settled as one of those instances,
the cognisance whereof belongs exclusively to the Sfipreme Court.
Vide The State of Georgia u, Brailsford, 2 Dall. 402, and The Governor of Georgia v. Miidrazo, 1 Peters, 110; Fowler et al. v. Lindsay et al. 3 Dall. 411.
To any argument, ab inconvenenie, which may be urged in support
of the jurisdiction in this case, I would simply oppose the observa-tions of two distinguished members of this bench, in reply to a similar argument addressed-to them in the case of Turner, admin., &c. v.
The Bank of North America, 4 Dall. 10; in which Chief Justice
Ellsworth inquired: "cHow far is it intended to carry this argument?
*Will it be affirmed that, in every case to which the judicial power
of the United States-extends, the federal courts may exercise jurisdiction without the intervention of the legislature to distribute and
regulate the power?" And Chase, justice, remarked: ,cIf Congress
has given the power to this court, we possess it, not otherwise; -and,
if Congress has not given the power to this or any other court, it
still remains at the legislative disposal." Est boni judicis ampliare
jursdctionem was once quoted as a vwse judicial maxim; how far
thi' may accord with systems differently constituted from ours, and
having their foundations in a large and almost undefinable discretion,
it is, perhaps, unnecessary here to inquire; it seems, however, scarcely
compatible with institutions under which the political and civil state
i,, referred, almost exclusively, to legislative or express regulation.
Upon the views above given, I conclude that the judgment of the
Circuit Coinr should be affirmed.
ORDER.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District
of Mississippi, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof,
It is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment'

28

SUPREME COURT.
McNutt v. Bland et al.

of the said-Circuit Court in this cause be, and the same is hereby
reversed, with costs; and that this cause be, and the same is hereby
remanded to the said Circuit C6urt, with directions to that court, to
enter judgmaent in this case for the plaintiff in that court.
Mr. Justice STORY;
The decree'of the Circuit Court in this case.was reversed on the
30th of January, 1844, and the cause remanded, with directions to
enter judgment for the plaintiff. fOn the 31st of January, Jones, for
the plaintiff in error, suggested the. death of Bland, and moved that
the writ of error stand against the survivoi, Humphreys, and that
judgment be-entered against him alone.
Mr. Justice STORY, in delivering the opinion of the court said,
that if Bland died since the commencement of the teim, the judgment might be entered against both dfendants, on a day prior to the
death of Bland, nunc pro tunc. If he died before the Commencement
of the term=. fhen upon the suggestion. of his death before the 'term.
being entered of record, the cause of action surviving, the judgment
might' be entered -against the .surviviig defendant, Humphreys.
There certainly is no objection in this case, under all the circumstances,
to granting the application as asked for by the plaintiff's counsel; that
is, to enter the suggestion of Bland's.death upon the record, and. then
entering judgment- against Humphreys alone, as the survivor; and it
is accordingly so ordered b the court.'
Alexander McNutt, Gov., &c., plaintiff in eror,
V.

Richard J. Bland et al.

Mr. Jones, of counsel for the plaintiff in error, havn'g ,suggested
the death of Richard J. Bland, 'one of the co-defendants, since the
last continuance of this cause,.now here -moved the court that his
writ of error stand as against the surviving defendant.. Whereupon
this court not being now here sufficiently advised of and concerning
what order to render in.the premises, took time to consider.
January31,1844.
Alexander McNutt, Gov, &c., plaintiff in error,
b.

Richard J. Bland et al.

On consideration -of the, motion made in this case on a prior day
of the present. term of this court, to wit: on Wednesday, the 31st
day of January, it is now here ordered by this court that- the suggestion of Bland's death be entered-on the record, and' that then judg-

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

29

Gwin v. Breedlove.

ment be entered against Humphreys alone, as the survivor, and that
the mandate of this court direct the Circuit Court to enter judgment
for the plaintiff against -enjamin G.Humphreys alone as the survivor.
.March12th, 1844.

Wujiux M. GwiN v. JAis W.

B-REpDLOVE.

A statute of the stale of Mississippi, passed on the 15th of February, 1828, provided that if a sheriff should fail to pay over to a plaintiff money collected by
execution, the amount collected, with 25 per cent. damages, and 8 per cent.
interest, might be recovered against such sheriff and his sureties, by motion
before the court to which such execution was returnable.
A marshal and his sureties cannot be proceeded against, jointly, in this-summary way, but the must be sued as directed by the act of Congress.
But the marshal himself'was always liableto an attachment, under which he
could be compelled to bring'the money into court; and by the process act.of
Congress, of May, 1828, was also liable, in Mississippi, Io have a judgment
entered against himself by motion.
This motion is not a new suit, but an incident of the prior one; .and hence,
residence of the parties in different states need not be averred in order to
give jurisdiction -to the c6urL
Such parts only of the laws of a state as are applicable to the courts of the
United States are adopted by the process act of Pongress; a penalty is not
adopted, and the 25 per cent. damages cannot be enforced
A marshal who receives bank-notes in satisfaction of an execution, when the
return has not been set aside at the instance of the plaintiff, or amended by
the marshal himself, must account to the plaintiff in-gold or silver; the Constitution of the United States recoguising only gold and silver as a legal
tender.

This case was brought'up by writ of error, from the Circuit Court
of the United States for the southern district of Mississippf, nd
arose upoh the following statement of facts.
At some period prior to the 13th day of February, 1839, James
W. Breedlove, the defendant in error, had recovered a judgment in,
the Circuit. Court of the United States for the southern district of
Mississippi, against certain persons there, for the sum of "$12,976,
with interest at the rate of 8 per cent. per annum, from the 24th of
May, 1838, until paid; and on the'said 13th of February, an execuion was issued upon the judgment, and placed in the hands of
Gwin, the marshal. The sum of $5000 was collected in anexcep-

