JANUARY TERM, -1844.

319

OF ROBERT GRIGNON, PETER B. GRIGNON, 'AND MORGAN L.
MARTIN, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V. JOHN J. ASTOR, RAMSAY CROOKS,
ROBERT STUART, AND LrN~s THOMPSON.

LzssEi

By a law of Michigan, passed in 1818, the County Courts had pov, er, under certain circumstances, to order the sale of the real estate of a deceased person
for the payment of debts and legacies.
It was for that court to decide upon the existence of the facts which gave jurisdiction: and the exercis6 of the jurisdiction warrants the presumption "that
the facts which were necessary to be proved were proved.
The distinction examined between courts of limited jurisdiction, where the.
record must show that jurisdiction was rightfully exercised; -and courts of
general jurisdiction, where the record being silent upon the subject, it will be
presumed that jurisdiction existed.
A title to land becomes a legal title. when a claim is confirmed, by Congress.
Such confirmation is a higher evidence of title than a patent, because'it is a
direct grant of the fee, which had been previously in the United States.

THrs case was brought up by writ of error from the Supreme Court
of the territory of Wisconsin, under the 25th section of the Judiciary
act of 1789.

It was an ejectmdnt to recover certain lands in the possession of
Linns Thompson; the tenant in possession,. at Green Bay, in" the
county of Brown and territoryof Wisconsin.. The plaintiffs in error
were also plaintiffs below.
Both parties derived title from Pierre Grignon,-deceased 2 who was

one-eighth Indian and seven-eighths French. He died in March,
1823, leaving Robert, born in 1803, and Peter, born in 1805 or 1806,'
-his only children by an Indian woman, to whom it was, alleged he
had been married. They made a conveyance of one-third of the

'lands to Morgan L. Martin, by deed, 15th November, 1834, who,
togethr with the two gons of Pierre, were the lessors of the plaintiff
below.

-A patent was issued by the United States, on the 21st day of
December, 1829, to Pierre Grignon and'his heirs, reciting, that by
the 3d 'section of the act of Congress, approved on-the 21st of February, 1823,' Pierre Grignon was confirmed in his claim to the ,tract of

land containing 230 acres, bounded, &c., and granting said land accordingly.
This was the case made out for the plaintiffs in the court below,.
The defendants' title was thls.

Pierre Grignon died -intestate in March, 1823. Letters of adminis-

32D0

SUPREME COURT.
.Grignon's Lessee v. Astor et aL

tration upon his estate were granted by the judge of probate of Brown
county, on the 21st June, 1824, to Paul Grignon, who applied under
the laws of Michigan, to the County Court of Brown county for power
to- sell the real estate of the deceased. The authority was granted
and the sale made, under which the title passed through Augustine
Grignon, to Astor, Crooks, tnd Stuart, the defendants-in the court.
below. The case turned on the validity of these proceedings, to
which sundry objections were made. Before stating them, it is proper to insert so much of the law of Michigan as bears upon the various
points.
.dct July 27, 1818, sect. 1. "Be it enacted, &c., that, when the
goods and chattels belonging to the estate of any person deceased, or
that may hereafter decease, shall not be sufficient to answer the just
debts which the deceased owed,.&c., upon representation thereof,
and the same being made to appear to the Supreme Judicial Court,
at any term or sitting of said court, or to the County Court in. the
county where the deceased person last dwelt, or in the county in
which the real estate lies, the said courts are severally and respectively authorized to empower 'and license the executors or administrators of such estate, to make sale of all or any part of the house,
lands, or tenements, of the deceased, so far as shall be necessary to
satisfy the just debts which the deceased owed at the time of his
death, and legacies bequeathed in and by the last will and testament
of the deceased, -with the inciden'tal charges.
,Arid every executor or administrator being so licensed and authorized, shall and may, by virtue of su'ch authority, make, sign, and execute in due form of law, deeds and conveyances for such houses, &c.,
as they shall so sell; which instrument shall make as good a title to
the purchaser, his heirs and assigns for ever, as the testator or intestate,'being of full age, of sane mind and memory, in his or her lifetime, might or could for a valuable consideration.
,"Provided always, that the executor or administrator, before.sale
be made as aforesaid,.give thirty days! public notide, by posting up
notifications of such sale in the township where the lands lie, as well
as where the deceased person last dwelt, and in the. two next adjoin.
ing townships, and also in the county town of the county, &c.
,, Sect. 2. Whereas, by the partial sale of real estates for the pay-°
ment of debts or legacies as aforesaid, it often happens that the
remainder t$ereof is much injured: Ble it therefore enacted, &c.,
that whenever it shall be necessary that executors and administrators

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

321

Grignon's" Lessee v. Astor et al.

shall be empowered to sell some part of the real estate of' testators or
intestates, or for guardians to sell some part of the real estate of minors
or persons non compos mentis, for the payment of just debts, legacies,
or taxes, or for the support or legal expenses of minors or persons no
compos mendis, and by such partial sale the residue would be greatly
injuredi and the same shall be represented and made to appear to
either of the aforesaid courts, on petition and declaration, filed and
duly proved therein by the said executors, administrators, or guardians,
the aforesaid courts respectively may authorize and empower such
executors, administrators, 'or guardians, &c., to sell and convey the
whole, or sQ much of said real estate as shall be most for the interest
and benefit of the parties concerned therein, at. public auction, and
good and sufficient deeds of conveyance therefor to make and execute: which deed or deeds, when duly acknowledged and recorded
in the registers of deeds for the county where the said real-estate lies,
shall make a complete and legal title in fee to the purchaser or purchasers thereof.
cc Providea the said executors, administrators, &c., give thirty days'
public notice of such intended sale, in manner and form hereinbefore
prescribed.
c ud provided, also, that they first give bonds, with suffieieat sureties, to the judge of probate for the county where the deceased testa-t
tor or intestate last dwelt and his estate was inventoried, that he or
she will obserte the rules and directions of law for the sale pf real
estate by executors or administrators; and the proceeds of such
sale, after the payment of just. debts, legacies, taxes, and just
debts for the support of minors, and other legal expenses and
incidental charges, shall be put on interest, on good securities,
and that the same shall be disposed of agreeably to the rules
of law.
c Sect. 3. That every representation to be made as aforesaid, shall
be accompanied with a certificate from the judge of probate of the
ebunty where the deceased perspn's estate was inventoried, certifying
the value.of the real estate and of the personal estate of such deceased
person, and the amount of his or her just debts, and also his opinion
whether it be necessary that the whole or a part of the estate should
be sold; and if part only, what part.
",And the said courts, previous to their passing on the said re-presentation, shall order due notice to be given to all parties concerned,
or their guardians, who do not signify their assent to such sale, to
VoL. 11.--41

322

SUPREME. COURT.
Grignon's Lessee

v. Astor et aL

show cause at such time and place as they shall appoint, why such
license should not be granted.
" And in case any petson concerned be not an inhabitaht of this
territory, nor have any guardian, agent, or attorney therein, who may
represent him or her, the said justices may cause the said petition to
be cbntinued for a reasonable time; and the petitioners shall give
personal notice of the petition to such absent person, hi . or her agent,
attorney, or guardian, or cause the same to be ublished in some one
of the newspapers in this territory three weeks successively.
"Aud the said courts, -when they think it expedient, may examine
the said petitioner on oath, touching the truth of facts set forth in the
said petition, and the circumstances attending the same.
" Sect. 7. That real estate is and shall be liable to be taken and
levied upon by any execution issuing upon judgments recovered
against executors or administrators in such capacity, being the proper
debts of the testator or intestate ; and that the method of levying,
appraising, and recording, shall be the same as by law is provided
respecting other real estates levied upon and taken in execution, and
may be redeemed by the executor, administrator, or heir, in like time

and manner."
.Act to direct Descents, sect. 17. "Whereas it sonmetimes happens,
that for want of prudent .Management in executors, administrators,
&c.,'who are empowered to sell real estates, such estates are disppsed
of below their true value, to the great injury of heirs and creditors:
therefore every executbr, administrator, &c., who may obtain a lggal
order for elling real estate,-shall, previous to the sale, before the judge
of probate, or some justice of the peace, take the following. oath:
'I, A. B., do solemnly swear, that in disposing of the estate belonging to
-,
nqw deceased, I will use my best skill and judgment in fixing on the time and place of sale, and that I will exert my
utmost endeavours to dispose of the same in such manner as will
produce the greatest .advantage to all persons interested therein, and
that without any sinister views whatever,'
•°And the said executor, administrator, &c,,shall return to thejudge
of probate. a certificate of the samej under the hand, of "the justice
beforeo'hom such oath was taken."
The defendants then called Charles C. P. Arndt as a witness, who
testified that he was the judge of probate f6r the county of Brown,
and produced the record of letters of administration granted by John
Lawe,-judge of probate of said county, to Paul Grignon, on the 21st

JANUA.RY TERM, 1844.

323

Grig.nou's Lessee v. Astor et al.

day of June, A. D. 1824, on the estate of Pierre Grignon, deceased;
and also the record of the bond. given by the administrator, filed and
approved by the said judge of probate on the 21st day of Junfe, 1824,
whicli were read in evidence.
The defendants then offered t6 rdad in evidence the following
extract or order from a book purporting to be the bobk'0f the minutes
of theproceedings of the County Court for the county of
Brown, which
book, Gardner Childs, the clerk of this court; testified that he had
received as the record of said County Court, viz.:,
"At a session of the County Court for the county of Brown, begun
and held at the township. of Green Bay, in the school housei on Tuesday, the "tenth day of January, one thousand eight hundred and
twen?-sx.
"Present: the Hon. James Porlier, chief justice, and John Lawe,
Esq., associate justice. The court was opened by George fJohnston.
sheriff.
"tThe petition.of Paul Grignon, administrator on the estate of
Pierre Grignon, late of the county of Bro'n, (deceased,) Was filed
by his attorney, H. S. Baird, praying for an order from the court to
auth6rize him to'dispose of the real estate of said"Pierre."
-,Ia consideration of the facts alleged in said petition, and for
divers other good and sufficient, reasons, it .is ordered that- he be
empowered as aforesaid."
" Minutes read, corrected- and signed by order of the court.
cc RoniiT .RWw, Jun., Clerk.".
The reading of "which said ' extract or. order in evidence was
objected to by the lessors of plaintiff on the ground that it does not
appear that there -was any petition presented to the court, nor any
certificate of the judge of proate certifying as to the value of the
'pr6perty and the'riec'ssity of the sale ; nor is there ariy thing to show
the reasons by which the court could be invested with power to order
the sale of the real estate 6f the intestate according to the statute ; and
that no ziotice was given to the parties concerned to show cause
according to the requisites of the statute; nor does the order specify
what lands of the intestate were to be sold; which objections were
o~erhiled by the court,'and the said extiact or order was read, in
evidence. To which decision the lessors of the plaintiff excepted.
The defendants then offered in evidence a bond and oath.of said'
administrator to make sale of the real estate of the intestate according
to the statute, dated and filed ifithe' priobate office of the .20th of

SUPREME COURT.
Grignon's Lessee v. Astor et al.

April, 1826, which were objected to by the lessors of th6 plaintifi
The objection overruled by the court, who decided that the same
might be read in evidenice. To which decision the lessors of the
plaintiff excepted.
The defendants then introduced Henry S. Baird as a -witness, who,
being sworn, says, he thinks the notice of sale by the administrator
was written and printed. The printed notice is in court, contained
in a newspaper called the "cMichigan Herald," printed at Detroit, in
seven weekly numbers, commencing on the 16th of March, 1826,
and ending on the 26th of April, in the same year. Defendants
offered to read the notice from the papers, and to prove by parol that
notice of sale was also given in writing, all which.evidence was
objected to by lessors of plaintiff; which objection waM overruled
by the court, and the testimony admitted. To which decision the
lessors of the plaintiff excepted.
The witness then testified - " I cannot state that I put up any notices
of sale, but that I drew the notices, I am positive. I think, I am
positive, I drew five copies of the notice which has been read from
the newspaper. I c6nnot say that they were put up in the township
at this distance of time-13 years. I cannot recollect. There was,
at that time, but one township' in this countyof Brown, and two
counties in what is now the Territory of Wisconsin."
John P. Arndt was called again by the defendants, and testified
that he saw-a notice of sale of lands of Pierre Grignon posted up in
the township, and thinks it was at his house in Green ]Bay, in the fore
part of the season of 1826.
The foregoing testimony of the witnesses, Baird and Amdt, was
objected to by lessors of the plaintiff at the time the same was offered.
The objection was Qverruled by the court, and testimony admitted.
To which decision the lessors of the plaintiff excepted.
. The defendants then offered in evidence a deed from Paul Grignon,
as adniinistrator on the estate of Pierre Grignon, deceased, to Augustin Grignon, dated the 13th day of June, A. D. 1826, and recorded
on the 5th of February, 1828, in the register's office of Brown county,
in book B, page 34, for land, coverifig the land in dispute, which
was objected to by the lessors of the plaintiff on. the following.
ground, viz.:
1. No title appeared to be in Pierre Grignon, at the time of his
death, -orat the date of the deed, to the lands in question.
2. There was no, certificate of the judge of probate, as required by

JANUARY

TERM,

1844.

325

Grign on's Lessee v. Astor- et al.
the statute, to the County Court of the necessity of the sale of said
lands for the payment of debts, and the order for sale, by the County
Court, was void.
3. There is no evidence on record that the property- was sold, or
ordered to be sold, for the payment of the debts of the intestate..
4. The sale was not advertised according to law, nor is th~ere any.
record that the County Court made any order how the estate should
be advertised.
5. No order was made by the County Court to show cause why
the sale should not be made before granting the order.
In connection with the above deed from Paul. Grignon, the
defendants offered in evidence the following license, the reading of
which was objected to, on the ground that it could have no greater
.effect than the order upon which it purported to be founded, but the
court overruled the objectio 'and permitted it to bhrtead.
TERRITORY OF MICHIGA'N
ss.
Brown county,
The United States of America, to Paul Grignon, administrator of
Pierre Grignon, deceased:
Beit known to all to whom it may concern, that at-a term of the
County Court of the county of Brown, continued and held at the
township of Green Bay, on Tuesday, the tenth of January, A. D.
1826, before the Hon. James Porlier, chief justice, and John Lawe,
Esq., associate justice, Paul Grignon, administrator of all and singular the goods, &c. &c., lands and tenements of Pierre Grignon;
deceased, late. of the county of Brown aforesaid, represents to this
court, then and there in'session, that the said Pierre died intestate at
Green Bay, in said county of Brown, on the fourth day of Marcr,
A. D.1823.'
That at the time of his death the said Pierre was seised in'-his
demesne as of fee, in and to the following tracts or lots of land,
situated at Green Bay aforesaid, to wit:
(Here follows a description of the.lands.)
And it has been ascertained by the petitioner, that the goods and
chattels belonging to the estate of the said deceased are insufficient
to pay all 'the just debts wlbich he owed at the time of his death, but
that his estate will be insolvent; and therefore piays that leave may
be granted to him to dispose of the tracts and lots of land aforesaid.
Now, therefore, for the causes aforesaid, and for divers other
2E

326

SUPREME COURT.
Grignons, Lesseeov. Astor et aL

good and sufficient-'reasons, the court thereunto moving, they do
hereby authorize and empower you, the said administrator, to dispose of all the right, title,' and interest of the deceased, in and to the
above described tracts and lots of land, in such manner as will best
.serve the interest of all concerned in said estate: requiring of you a
due observance of the statute in such case.made and provided.
Wirss, James Porlier, chief justice of the County Court -of
the county of Brown, at the township of, Green Bay, on the
28th of March, A. D.1826.
ROBERT

ITwra', Jun., Ckrk, B. C.

The counsel for the- lessors of plaintiff thereupon requested the
court to give the jury the following instructions, viz. :
Instruction 1st. If the jury believe from the evidence that the lessors of the plaintiff are the heirs-at-law of Pierre Grignon," or have
sho~vn a regular conveyance from the heirs-at-law to themselves of
the premises in question, before the commencement of this suit; that
then the defendants can claim no. title under the sale of the premises
in question, made by Paul Grignon, as administrator of the estate of
Pierre Grignon, by virtue of the order made by the County Court of
Brown county, made on the 10th day of January, 1826; unless the
jury are satisfied that the representation made by the said administrator to the said court to obtain the order for license of the said court
for the sale of the said prenises was accompanied by a certificate of
the judge of probate of the cou::y where the said deceased person's
estate was 'inventoried, certifying the value of the real estate, and
the value of the pefsonal estate of the said deceased person, and the
amount of his just debts, and also his opinion whether it be necessary
that the whole or a part of the 'estate should be sold, and, if a part
only, what part, a:sdirected by the third section of an act entitled
"cAn act directing the setflemeht- of the estates of persons deceased,
and for the conveyance of real estate in certain cases," as adopted
by th governor and judges of the Territory of Michigan, on the 27th
day of July, 1818,
Instruction 2d. That the said order or license of the said County
Court, for the said sale, unless the said court had been furnished with
the said certificate of the said judge of probate, 'is null and void as
against the heirs-at-law of Pierre Grignon, who have not acquiesced
in the said sale made by the administratoi, under and 'by virtue of
the said order.

'JANUARY TERM, 1844.
Grigno.n's Lessee

327

v. Astor et al.

To the two preceding instructions the court decided and directed
the jury as follows, to wit:
"cThe two preceding instructions are answered, as the County Court
had jurisdiction of this subject, we are bound to infer that these things
were shown to said court."
Instruction 3d. That the said County Court had no power or jurisdiction to make the said order for sale, without the said certificate of
the said judge of probate.
To which said instruction the said court decided and- dirtcted the
jury as follows, viz.:,
"cThe court answer that the certificate of the judge of probate was
not necessary to give the court jurisdiction. It was required' as evidence.""Instruction 4th. It must appear affimatively to, the jury that the
said County Court at the time of the making the said order for sale of
the said premises, had before them the said certificate of the said
judge of probate at the time of making the said order, or granting the
said license for the sale of the premises in question, or the said orde r
for sale is void as against the heirs-at-law of Pierre Grignon, deceased,
who had not acquiesced in the sale, and those claiming under them..
To which said instruction the court decided and directed the jury
as follows, viz.:
tc This is answered. The judgment of the County Coiut having
jurisdiction is conclusive upon this point."
Instruction 5th. Unless it appears affirmatively to th jury that the
said County Court, previous to their passing on said representation for
the sale of said premises, ordered due notice to be given to all parties concerned, or their guardians, who did not signify their assent to
such sale, to show cause, at such time and place as the court appoint,
why such license should not be granted agreeably to the provisions
of the said third section of said act in the first instruction referred to ;
that then the said order or license for sale was void as against the
heirs of Pierre Grignon, who have not acquiesced in such sale, and
the defendants can acquire no title by virtue of the sale made by the
administrator, under the said order, as against the heirs-at-law of the
said Pierre Grignon, deceased.
To which said instruction the court decided and directed the jury
as follows, to wit:
"9This is ansWered. We state that the County Court having jursidiction on the subject, their judgment is conclusive."
-

M .

SUPREME

C OUR.T.

Grignons Lessee v.'Astor et al.

Instruction 6.th. Unless the jury believe from the evidence that the
said administrator, before .te sale of the said, premises, gave thirty
days' public notice, by posting up notifications of such sale, in the
township where the lands lie; as well as where the said deceased
last dwelt, and in the two next adjoining townships, or caused the
printing of such notifications for .three weeks successively in such.
gazette or newspaper as the court who authorized the sale ordered
and directed, the said sale was void as against the heirs of the deceased, and those claiming under them.
To which said instruction the court decided and directed the jury
as follows, to,wit:
" This is a fact for the jury, and you must find that the advertisement given subs'antially complied with the law, on the sale is
void."
Instruction 7th. That the publishing of said notice of sale in .a
newspaper, without the order or direction of the court who authorized
the sale, was a nullity.
To which said instruction the court decided and directed the jury
.as follows, to.wit:
"cThis is answered in the affirmative."
Instruction 8th. That it must appear affirmatively that the administrator, before- making sale of the said premises, lid literally and
strictly comply with the provisions of the said statute in relation to
the posting up or publishing the said notice of sale, or the said sale
was void as against the heirs of Pierre Grignon, who have not acquiesced in the same.
To which said instruction the court decided and directed the juryas follows, viz.:
",Asubstanl compliance with the requisites of the law on this
subject is sufficient."
Instruction 9th. If the jury believe from the evidence that Peter
B. Grignon, one of the lessors of plaintiff is one of the heirs-at-law
of the deceased; and-was a minor at the time of the making of the
said drder for sale, and at the time of the said sale, a guardian should
have been appointed to represent him, according to law;. and if no
such guardian was appointed, the said sale was void as to him and
those claiming under him.
To which said instruction the court decided and directed the jury
as follows; to wit:
"cIt was necessary and-proper that, if a minor, he should be noti-

JANUARY 'IERM, 1844.
Grignon's Lessee

v. Astor et al.

fled by guardian, but in this issue the presumption is, that he was.
This is a fact that he might controvert on appeal."
Instruction 10th. Unless the defendants in this case have proven
affirmatively to the jury that the administrator of the said deceased
strictly complied with all the provisions of the*said statute, in obtaining the order for sale, and in making the said sale, that the defendants in this suit can acquire no title to the premises in question under
said sale, as against the lessors of the plaintiff, if the jury believe
from the evidence that'the lessors of the plaintiff are the heirs-at-law
of the said Pierre Grignon, deceased, or derived title from the heirsat-law.
To which said instruction the court decided and directed the jury
as follows, to wit:
" Answer. That the court charge the jury that they are bound to
corksider,.in this collateral issue, that the judgment or order of the
County Court of Btown county, ordering the sale, was made upon
sufficient and proper evidence, and that they had every, thing
requisite before them to authorize them to make the order for the
sale, and that the judgment of. that court is conclusive until
reversed."
To all which foregoing decisions and answers, given by the said
court to each and every of the said instructions, and for refusing to
give the said instructions, respectively, as the same -were asked, and
to the said charge to the jury, and every part thereof, the'said lessors
of; the said plaintiff except, and tender this bill of exceptions to the
court for its signature, and bill sealed.
AkNnw G. M-m, Judge, 4rc. [L. s.]
October 21, 1839.
Choate, for the plaintiffs in error.
Crittenden and Lord, for the defendants in error.
Choate, for the plaintiffs in error, made.the following points:
1. The plaintiff contended first, and now contends, that the defendants did not offer competent proof, sufficient to show, even primu0
fade, that the said County Court, under whose alleged order the said
administrator made the sale, ever acquired jurisdiction of the matter
in relation io which it was alleged to have made the order; and that,
therefore, the order was a nullity.
The jurisdiction of that court depends on a law of the territory of
2E2
VOL. I. -42

330

SUPREME COURT.
Grignon's Lessee v. Astor et al.

Michigan, made on the 27th day of July, A. D. 1818. (Laws
Michigan, vol. i. p..37.) By that law it is enacted; in section 1,
that when the goods and chattels of a parson deceased shal not be
sufficient to pay his debts, then, cc upon representation thereof, and
the same being made to appear, to the Supreme Judicial Court, or to
the Ctunty Court in the county where the deceased last dwelt, or
where his real estate lies,",the said courts are authorized to license
the executor or administrator to sell his real estate, 'iso far as shall
be necessary to satisfy, the just debts of the deceased."
The same law enacts, in section 3, c that every representation
made as aforesaid shall be accompanied by a certificate from the
judge of probate." The coxtents of which certificate are particularly
prescribed.
It also enacts in the same section, that cc the said courts, previous
to their passing on the said representation, 'shall order due notice to
be given to all pare's or their guardians, "toshow cause against the
granting of the license. And-in case any person concerned be not
an inhabitant of this republic, nor have any guardian, agent, or at,
torney therein, who ma y.epresent- him or her, the said justices may
cause the said petition to be continued for a reasonable time; and
the petitioner shall give .personal notice of the said petition to such
absent person, his .agent, attorney, or guardian, or cause the same to
be published ,in some one of the newspapers in this territory three
weeks successively."
And it enacts, in the first section, in these words: "Provided always, that the executor or administrator before sale made, give thirty
days' public notice,.by posting up nbtifications of such sale in the
township where the lands lie, as well as where the deceased person
last dwelt, and in the two next adjoining townships, and also in the
county town of the county."
To prove the jurisdiction and order of the Court of Common Pleas,
the defendants offered in evidence an extract from a book purporting
to be the book of the minutes of the proceedings of-the said court.
To this the plaintiff objected as incompetent; and he contends that
it was incompetent and inadmissible for any purpose.
' st. :Because it was not such a record, nor parcel of such a record,
as by the law of Michigan, passed April 21, A. D; 1825, and by the
Jaw of evidence, is competent and admissible to proye any act of a
court. The 24th and 25th sections of that law are as follows:

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

. 331

Grignon's Lessee v. Astor -et aL

An act concerning the Supreme and County Courts.ofthe territ6iyof
.A'higan, defining their jurisdictionand powers, and directing the
pleadings andpractice therein in certain cases.
Sect. 24. And be it further enacted, that for preventing 6rrors. in
entering the judgments, orders, and decrees, of the Supreme and
County Courts, the judges and justices of the said courts respectively,
before every adjournment, shall cause the minutes of their proceedings during the preceding day to be publicly read by the clerk, and
corrected when necessary, and then the same shall be signed by tha
presiding judge of the said court; which minutes, so signed, shall be
taken in a book, and carefully preserved among the records.
Sect. 25. And be it further enacted, that whenever any civil caus ,
of whatever nature it be, shall be finally determined, the clerk of any
of said courts shall, during the next vacation, enter the warrants of
attorney, driginal writ or writs, declaration, pleadings, proceedings,.
and judgment, in such cause, so as to make a complete record thereof,
in a separate book to be kept for that purpose, -with a complete alphabetical index to the same; which records, after being examined and
compared with warraits of attorney, writ or.writs,,declaration, pleadings, proceedings, and judgraent, and being found coirect, .shall, at,
the next term, be signed by the presiding judge of the court.
Sect. 10. And be it further enacted, that this act shall take effect
from and after the third Monday of September next.
Approved April 21, 1825.
The said extracted passag is not signed by the presiding judge;
it is not, therefore, even legally authenticate.d minutes of the proceedit were, it is not a record, or parcel of
ings of the court; and 'if
record, 'nor admissible in. evidence.
2d. Because, even if it were unobjectionable in pbint of formal
authentication, it does not prove, nor tend to prove, that the court have jurisdiction, or that the order -was made, bya court having.
jurisdiction, or that it was an order relating .tothe lands described in
the declaration. It does not record or recite the making of a-representationi by petitioh,'or otherwise, aleging any indebtment of the
said 'Pierre, nor any other ground for asking.or 'granting the license
on which the court had jurisdiction to act, as was necessary in point
of law. It . loes not record or recite any certificate of the judge of
probafe, nor any notice to anybody, to show cause against the grant
of the license, nor does it point. out which, or how much, estate is to
be sold, as was'necessary in point of law.

332

SUPREME COURT.
Grignon's Lessee v.Astor et al.

-

The District Court, however, admitted this evidence, and this
decision was erroneous.
And if the said extracted passage be competent and admissible
evidence, the plaintiff contends, for the reasons aforesaid, that it is
wholly inoperative and ineffectual, and insufficient to prove that the
court had any jurisdiction to- act, or that the order was the act of a
court having any jurisdiction, or that it was 6f any legal validity or
effect whatever, or communicated. any authority whatever to the
administrator,
The District Coiut decided against the proposition, and that decision was erroneous.
3d. He contends that the paper purporting to be a license, issued
by the clerk of the said court, was incompetent and inadmissible as
evidence; and that, if competent; itwas ihoperative and ineffectual,
and communicated no authority to tle administritor.
It is not a record, noi evidence of any fact. It is not signed by
-the presiding justice. It is not recorded. It is the mere act of the
clerk in vacation. It presupposes and requires, as a condition of
admissibility andv-lidity, -a valid order of a court having jurisdic-tion, of which there is no evidence.
It was not issued nor made during a session of the court, yet the
'District Court admitted this evidence, and declared it to be effectual
and sufficient. to prove jurisdiction.
This decision was erroneous.
4th. The- plaintiff coitends, that even if the evidence aforesaid
was competent ana1 admissible,'andeven if it were sufficient to show,
.prima'fade,that the court ever had or began to have jurisdiction,
yet that it was competent for him on the trial to encounter it by
proof; that no certificate of tlie'judge of probate was furnished to the
said court; that no notice was ordered by the court, previous to the
making of the alleged order of sale, to any person to 'show cause
against the grant of the license, or that an 'application for leave to sell
was pending; that no n&ice was given to, or had by either of, thi
heirs of said Pierre, or any one acting for them, that such application
was pending; that ohe of the heirs was a minor at the time of the
sale, and had-no guardian; and that proof of these facts, or of either
of them; would have disproved or put an end'to, and ousted the jurisdiction of the court, and would have shown in point of law that the
order'of sale, and theoalleged license, were wholly invalid, anctineffectual.and inoperative.

JANUARY TERM, 1844.
Grignon's Lessee v: Astor et aL

But the said District Court decided, that the judgment or order of
the County Court was conclusive evidence of the jurisdiction of the
court, and of all proofs and things necessary to the making of the
said order of sale, and is a valid and effectual order of sale.
This decision, the plaintiff contends, was erroneous.
5th. The plaintiff contends, that in order to give to the administrator's deed any legal validity and effebt, it was necessary to prove
that notice of the notifications described and required in the said 1st
s9ction of the laws of Michigan, and that the evidence to prove this
of Baird's and Arndt, was incompetent and wholly insufficient for the
purpose. And he cofitends, that the decisidas of the District Court
upon this matter were erroneous on several grounds.
1. In admitting incompetent proof.
2. In deciding as matter of law a mere point 6f evidenoe, to wit:
that the proof aforesaid established a substantial compliance with the
laiv, instead of declaring to the jury what the law required to have
done; and then submitting th6 question of fact and evidence to the
jury whether it had been done.
3. In refusing to instruct the jury that the administrator must
literally and strictly comply with the provisions of the statfite in the
matter, by ppsting up notifications, and instructing them that a sub.
stantial compliance with-the requests' of the law was sufficient,
without insfructing them what acts would constitute a substantial
compliance therewith.
6th. The plaintiff contenddd" at the trial, and contends here, thaf
the lands claimed in the action could not legally be sold by the
administrator under any order or judgment of any court, as the real
estate of Pierre Grignon, for the payment of his debts. And that
the patent passes a perfect title to plaintiff's lessors.
The law of Michigan above referred to, and in part set forth,
authorizes the sale of the "houses, lands or tenements,, of the deceased." The estate in question was not such. Thetitle'of Pierre
Grignon at his death, if any, was equitable only, resting on the
pleasure or justice of government, afid could not be taken in execution or -sold for his debts. The patent of 21st December, 1829,
vested the title directly in the heirs. But the District Court decided
otherwise.
7th. The plaintiff contends that if the license has any effect, it
proves that the administrator represented that .the said Pierre was
seised, at the time of his death, as in his demesne, as of fee of the

SUPREME COURT.
Grignon's Lessee v. Astor et al

estate claimed in the action ; that the said representation was untrue;
that the order of sale was founded in part upon that representation,
and affirms it; and is for' that cause erroneous and invalid, and does
not support the administrator's deed.
Lord and Crittenden, for the defendants in error, made the following points:
1. By the act of Michigan, of July 27, 1818, the County Court of
Brown county had jurisdiction to order the sale of the lands of an
intestate for payment of debts, whenever the goods and chattels
should not be sufficient to answer the same " and such jurisdiction
was to be exercised upon representation of such insufficiency, and
the same being' made to appear to the County Court.
2. The court thus having jurisdiction, the want of evidence,
however necessary and essential that evidence, to warrant its order,
was merely, error: and it-cannot be shown by strangers to the order,
%tooVerturn the title of-a purchaser. The order cannot be impeached
collaterally.
3. The license, which is the order exemplified for the purchaser's
protection,' and the minutes, show every fact on which the jurisdiction of the court rests, and show such an order as the court was by
law authorized to make:
4. The jurisdiction being shown, not only is the order unimpeachable collaterally for errors in making it, but every proper requisite to
the act of jurisdiction is to bepresumed as a conclusion of law; and
it is to be presumed, in 6very, collateral suit, that there was no error
or irregularity; no want of.citation, notice or evidence.
5. There is no express saving of the fights of infants. The statute
authorizes the sale as.a proceeding in rem. The lands were lihbleto
be sold under judgments recbvered against the administrator for the
intestate's debt, so that the sale by the administrator was merely a
conversion from real to personal estate; in reference to the sale of
which, in either mode, he -was accountable. There is, therefore, no
ground to impeach the order, on the supposition that infnts. were
interested, and were not notified, even if such supposition was not
precluded by the presumption of law.
6. .The acts in Pais, after the order of sale, were left by the court
to be found by the jury, considering all the evidence. Such acts
could not be- required to be established, at the distance of thirteen'
years, except by showing a substantial compliance .with the law.

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

835

Grignon's Lessee v. Astor et al.

A substantial compliance is all which is at any time necessary in
carrying out a sale by order of a court.
7. The plaintiff did not attempt by any: evidence directly. to impeach the proceedings, by showing want of notice, want of evidence,
want of strict conformity to lavi,'although Paul Grignon, the administrator, and Augustine Grignon, the, purchaser, had both united to
defeat the sale- under the order by a subsequent conveyance, and
were both produced as witnesses for the plaintiff. The plaintiff must
therefore fail if the order and license are evidence at all, although not
,conclusive: as a presumption subject to contradiction, it must be
taken against the plaintiff, who might contradict it if false, -and does
not.
8. The interest of Pierre Grignon in these lands, at the time ofhis death, was an interest existing at the date of the act of Congress
of February 21, 1823, and so liable to be sold by his administrator,
as goods, chattels, lands, or. tenements. The purchaser, by the ad-'
ministrator's salei acquired as good 'title as the intestate could in
his lifetime convey for a v~luable contideration.
The patent issued after his death enured. to the benefit of *his
assigns, the defendants deriving their title-under him.
Numerous authorities were cited by the counsel upon each side,
in, support of their respective points: but the reporter was necessarily
absent during the argument of the cause, and-is therefore unable to
cite them.
Mr. Justice BALDWIN delivered the opinion of the court.
This case comes here on a writ of error from the Supreme Court of
the Territory of Wisconsin, the premises in controversy were for-.
merly'owned by one.Peter Grignon, to whom they were confirmed by
an act of Congress, passed 21st February, 1823, to be found in
3 Story's Laws, 1877. He died in Marchfollowing, intestate, indebted,
and leaving two sons who are lessors of the plaintiff, one born, in
'1803, the other in 1806. They conveyed one-third to Martin, the
other lessor, in.
1834. The lessors claim as heirs-at-laW of Peter Grignon, and the conveyance from them to Martin.
In 1824, letters of administration on .the estate of Peter Grignon.
were duly granted to Paul Grignon, the brother of the dedeas"ed, whogave bond for the performance of 'the trust, according to law. In'
January, 1826, he presented his petition to the County Couit of'
Brown county, then in the Territory of Michigan, praying for an"

336

SUPREME COURT.
Grignon's Lessee v. Astor et.al.

order from the court, to authorize him to dispose of the real estate of
the said Peter, which was granted, a license issued to the'administrator to sell in March, 1826. A sale was accordingly made to Augustin G rignon, to whom a'deed was executed by the administrator in
June, 1826, ahd duly recorded. The defendants claim title under this
sale, by sundry mesne conveyances from the purchaser.
The law of Michigan is set forth in the statement of the 6ase by
the reporter.
In the County Court the following proceedings were had:
,,At a session of the County Court for the county of Brown, begun
and held, at the township of Green Bay, in the school-house, on
Tuesday, the tenth day of January, one thousand eight hundred and
twenty-six.
&C
Present: the Hon. James Porlier, chief justice, and John Lawe,
Esq., associate justice. The court was opened by George Johnston,
sheriff
"The petition of Paul Grignon, administrator on the estate
of
Pierre Grignon, late of the county of Brown, (deceased,) was filed by
his attorney, H. S. Baird, praying for an order from the court to
authorize him to dispose'of the real estate of said Pierre.
- CIn consideration.of the facts alleged in kaid petition, and for
divers other good and sufficient reasons, it is ordered that he be
empowered as aforesaid.
"Minutes read, corrected, and signed by order of the court.

Ro.BrnT I i, Jun., Cler."

"TERMTORYOF MICmaGrs,

Brown county,
The United States-of America, to Paul Grignon, administ ator of
Pierre Grignon, deceased.
Be it known, to all whom it may concern, that at a term of the
County Court of the county of Brown, continued and held at the township of Green Bay, in said county, on Tuesday, the tenth day of
January,.in the year of our Lord; one thousand eight hundred and
twenty-six, before the Hon. James Porlier, chief justice, and John
Lawe, Esq., associatejustice, Paul Grignon, administrator of all and
singular the goods and chattels, rights and credits, lands and tenements of Pierre Grignon; deceased, late of the county of Brown
aforesaid, represents to this court, then and there in session, that the
said Pierre died intestate, at Green Bay, I said county of Brown, on
the fourth day of March, A. D. 1823; that at the time of his death,

3ANUARY

TERM, 1844.

837

Grignon's Les.see v. Astor et- aL.

the said Pierre was seised- in his demesne as of fee in and to the
following tracts or lots of land, situated at Green Bay aforesaid,
to wit:
Lot number three, on the east side of Fox river, bounded north by
land claimed by the estate of Dometile Longevin. south by Augustin
Grignon, and four-and-a-half arpens in front, and eighty arpens rear.
Also, lot numbei five, on the same side of said river, bounded north
by Augustin Grignon's claim, and south by land- cahimed and occupied by John Lawe, Esq., being frur acres and sixteen. feet wide,
and extending back eighty acres.
Also, lot number three, in dispute between said deceased and
George Johnston, on the west side of said Fox river, lately occupied
by said George Johnston, bounded north by Louis Grignon, and
south by land of said deceased, being eight chains and.sixty-two
links wide, and' eighty arpens deep.

Also, lot number four, on the same side ofsaid river, bounded
north by the last mentioned claim, and south by land claimed by
John Lawe, Esq., being eight chains and fifty links wide, and
extending back eighty arpens.
And that it has been ascertained by the petitioner that the .goods
and chattels belonging to the estate of ,the said deceased are insufficient to pay all the just debts.which he owed at the time of his ileath,
but that the estate will be jinsolvent; -and therefore prays that leave
may be granted him to dispose of the tracts.and lots of land aforesaid.
* Now, therefore, for the causes aforesaid,_and for divers other good
and sufficient reasons, the court thereunto moving, they do hereby
authorize and eipower'you the said administrator, to dispose of all
the right, title, and interest of the -deceased in and to the above
described tracts and lots of laid in such manner as will best serve
the interest of. all concerned in said estate, requiring of -you a due
observance of the statute in such cahe made and provided.
Wrrn'ss, James Porlier, chief justice of .the County Court of the
county of Brown, at the township of Green Bay,. on the
28th of March, A.'D. 1826.
ROBEnT IRIwr, J-1m., Clrk B C.
At the trial numerous questions of evidence arose, and many
instructions were asked of the court, to whose opinion the plaintiffs
excepted; but we do not deem-it necessary to notice them in detail, as in oar opinion the whole merits of the controversy depend on one
2F
Vo. I.--43

338

SUPREME COURT.
Grignon's' Less-ee v. Astor et..aL

single question, had the County Court of Brown county jurisdiction of
the subject on which they acted?
Jurisdiction has been thus defined by this court.
" The power to hear and determine a cause is jurisdiction; it is
coram judice-whenever a case is presented which brings this power
into action; if the petitioner presents such a case.in his petition, that
on a demurrer the court would'render a judgment in his favour, it is
an undoubted case of jurisdiction; whether on an answer denying
and putting'in issue the allegations of the petition, the petitioner
-makes out his case, is the exercise of jurisdiction, conferred by the
filing a Petition containing all the requisites, and in the manner
required by law." 6 Peters, 709. cAny movement by a court
is necesshrily the exercise of jurisdiction; so, to exercise any judicial
power over the subject-matter and the parties, the question is whether,
on the case before a court, their action'is judicial, or extra-judicial,
with, or without the authority of law, to render a judgment or decree
upon the rights of the litigant parties. If the law confers the power
to render a judgment'or decree, then the court has jurisdiction, what
shall-be adjudged or decreed between the parties, and with which is
the rightof the case, is judicial action by hearing and determining it."
12 Peters, 718;. S. P. 3 Peters, 20i- It.is a case of judicial cognisance, and the proceedings are judicial. 12 Peters, 623.
This is the line which denotes jurisdiction 'and its exercise, in cases
in. personam, where there. are adverse parties, the court must have
power over the subject-matter and the parties; but on a proceeding
to sell the real estate of an indebted intestate, there are no adversary
p ries, the proceeding is in rem, ,the administrator represents the
land, (11 S.,and R. 432;) they are analogous to proceedings in the
admiralty, where the only question of jurisdiction is the power of.the
court over the thing, the subject-matter before them, without regard
to the persons who may have ,aninterest in it; all the world aie parties. In -the Orphans' Court, and all courts who have power to sell
the estates of intestates, their action operates on the estate, not on the
heirs of the intestate, a plurchaser claims not their title, but one para,mount. 11 S. and R. 426. The estate passes to~him by operation
of law. 11 S. and R. 428. The sale is a proceeding in.rem, to
,which'all claiming under the intestate are parties, (11 S. and R. 429,)
which directs the title of the deceased. 11S.. andR. 430.
A§ the jurisdiction of such courts is irrespective of the parties in

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

389

Grignon's Lessee v.'Astor et al.

intetest, our inquiry in this case is whether the County Court of Brown
county had power to act in the estate of Peter Grignon, on the petition of the administrator under the law of Michigan, providing, that,
where the goods and chattels of a decedent are not sufficient to answer
his just debts on representation thereof, and the same being made
to. apptar to the County Court where he dwelt, or where his real
estate lies, it may license the executor or administrator to make sale
of so much as will satisfy the debts and'legacies.
No other requisites to th jurisdiction of the County Cdurt are prescribed than the death of Grignon, the insufficiency of his personal
estatetto payhis debts, and a representation thereof to the ,County
Court where he dwelt ok his rel estate"was situate, making these
facts appear to the court. Their decision was the exercise'ofjurisdiction, which was conferred by the representation ; for whenever that
was before the court, they must hear and determine whether it was
true or not; it was a subject on which there might be judicial actidn.
The-record of the County Cbirt shows that -there was a petiti~n representing some facts by the administrator,.who prayed an order of sale;
that the court 'took 'those" facts which weei alleged ih the petition
into consideration,, and for these adid divers other' good reasons
ordered that he be empowered to:sell. 'It did -then appear -to. the
coart that'there wer6 facts and 'reasons before them which brought
their power into 'action, and that it was exercised by. granting the
prayer'of the petitioner,. and the decree- of the court does not specify
the facts and rearSis, or' refer to the .evidence'-on which they were
made to appear to' the judibial eye; they must have been, and the law
presumes that they were such a's to justify their action. 14 Peters, 458.
But though- the order of the toiirt sets forth no facts on which-it was.
founded, the license to the administrator is ful and explicit, showing
what was considered:and adjudicated oft the petition and evidence,
and that every requisition of ihe la* had been complied with before.
the order was made, by -proof of the existence 'of all the factoon
which the power to make it dpended. 3 Peter , 202.; 2Peters, 165.
We all know that even in: the old states, the records of these and
similar proceedings are very imperfectly kept, that where it consists
of separate pidces of paper, they are ofteir mislaid or lost by the c'arelessness of clerks. and their frequent changes; regular entries of the
proceedings are not entered on .thdocket as in adversary cases, -nr
are the -facts set- forth hi .the petition'-enterd'd at'large; and it is no
matter of surprise'that in so nev and remote part of the country'as

340

SUPREME COURT
Grignon's Lessee v. Astoi

et al.

the place where these proceedings were had, this state of things
.should exist. Nor is it necessary that a full or perfect acccunt should
appear in the records of the-contents of papers on files, or me judgment of the court on matters preliminary to a final order; it is enough
that there be something of record which shows the subject-matter
before the -court, and their action upon it, that their judicial power
arose and was exercised by a definitive order, sentence, or decree.
2 Peters, 165. The petition in the present case called for a-decision
of the court that the facts represented did or did not appear to them
to be sufficiently proved; they decided that they did so appear,
whereby their power was exercised by the authority of the law, and it
became their duty to order the sale, unless in a case -under the 3d
section. The subsequent provisions of the act of Michigan relate
exclusively to acts and proceedings in the execution of the order of
sale or are directory to the administrator to accompany the representation with a certificate of the judge of probate, and to the-court, before
passing on such representation, to order notice to be given to the
.parties concerned, to show cause Why the license should not be
granted; but these provisions do not affect the jurisdiction of the
court, they apply only to its exercise. After the court has passed on
the representation of the-administrator, the law presumes that it was
accompanied by the certificate of the judge of probate; as that was.a
requisite to the action of the court; their order of sale is evidence of
that or any fact which was necessary to give them power to make it,
and the same remark applies to the order to give notice to the-parties.
This is a familiar principle in ordinary adversary actions, in which
it is presumed after verdict, that the plaintiff has proved every fact
which is indispensable to his recovery, though na evidence appears
on the record-to show it; and the principle is of more universal application in proceedings in rera after a final decree by a court of competent jurisdiction over the subject-iatter.
The granting, the- license to -sell is an adjudication upon all the
fa,cs necessary to give jurisdiction, and whether they existed or not
is wholly imniaterial, if no appeal -is taken; the rule is the same
wbether the law.gives an appeal or not; if none is given from the final
decree, it is conclusive on all whom it concerns. The record is absolute
verity, to contradict which there can be no averment or evidence; .the
court having power to make the decree, it can be impeached only by
fraud in the piarty Who obtains it,6 Peters, 729. A purchaser under
itis not bound to look beyond the decree; if thereAs error in it, of the

JANUARY TERM, 1844.
Grignons Lessee

v. Astol

341

et al.

most-palpable kind, if the court which rendered it have, in the exercise of jurisdiction, disregarded, misconstrued, or disobeyed the plain
provisions of the law which gave them the. power to hear and deter-.
mine the case before Ahem, the title of a purchaser is as much protected as if the adjudication -would, stand the test of a writ of error_
so where an: appeal is given but iot taken in the time prescribed by
law. These principles are settled as to all courts of record which
heve an'original general jurisdiction, over any particular subjects;.
they are not, courts of special or limited jurisdiction, they are not
inferior courts, in the technical sense of the term, because an appeal
lies from their decisions. That applies to "courts of special and
limited.jurisdiction, which are 'created on such principles 'that their'
judgments, taken alone, are entirely disregarded, and the proceedings
must show their jurisdiction.;" that 'of the courtsof the-United States
is limited and special, and their -proceedings are reversible on error,
but are not nullities, which m~y be dntirely disregarded. 3 Peters, 205.
They have power ,torender.final judgments and decrees which bind.
tle persons and things before them conclusively, in criminal as well
as civil causes, unless- revised on error or by appeal. The true line
of distinction between courts whose "decisions are conclusive if not
removed to .an appellate ,court, and those *whoseproceedings are nullities 'if their jurisdiction does not appear on their .face, is this: a
court which is competent by its constitution to aecide on its own
jurisdiction, ad-t6 exercise.it toa finaljttdguient, without setting forth
in their proceedings the facts and evidence.on which it is rendered,
whose record.is absolute verity, not to be impugned by averment'or
proof to the contrar, is of the first descrilition; there .can be no judicial inspection behind. tle judgment save -by appellate power. A
court which is' so constituted that its judgment can be Iqoked through
fQr the facts and evidence.which are-necessary to sustain it; whose
decision is.not evidence of itself to show.jurisdiction and its lawful
exercise, is of the latter descriptio ; every requisite for either must
appear on the tce of their proceedings, or they are nullities. The
Circuit Court of this district has original, exclusive, and final jurisdictioh in criminal cases, its judg ient is a sufficient cause on'a retun
to a writ of hlieas vorp s; " on this writ 'this court cannot look
behind: the judgment and re-examine the charges on :which it was
rendered. A judgment in its nature concludes the subject in which.
it is rendered, and pronounces the, law of the.case. The judgment
of a court of record, whose jurisdiction is final, is as c6nalusive on'
2F2

342

SUPREME COURT.
Grignon's Lessee v. Astor et aL

all the world as the judgment of this court would be. It is as conclusive in this court as it is on. other courts. It puts an end to all inquiry
into the fact by deciding it." 3. Peters, 204, 205.
cc.To determine whether the offence charged in the indictment'be
legally punishable or not, is among the most unquestionable of its
(the Circuit Court) powers-and duties; the decision of the question
ia the exercise ofjurisdiction, whether the judgment be for or against
the prisor er, it is equally. Binding and remains in full force until.
reversed." 3 Peters,,204, 205.
If the jurisdiction of the court jn a civil case.is-not alleged in the
cc pleadings, the judgment is not a nullity, but though erroneous, is
obligatory as one, (3 Peters, 206,).and in a proceeding in e'em, an
erroneous judgment binds. the property on-which it acts, it will not
bind it the less because the error is apparent, and the judgment is
of complete obligation." 3, Peters, 207. The judgaient of the Circuit Conit, in a criminal case, "is of itself-evidence of its own legality, and requires for its support no inspection of the indictments on
which it is founded. The-law trusts that court'vith the whole subsect, and has not confided to this -court the power of revising its
decision." 3 Peters, 207.
..'These -principles have been applied by this court to. sales made
under the decrees of Orphans' Courts: ,wheretheyhave power to judge
of a matter of ficf, cthey are not required to 'enter on record the
evidence on which they, decided that. fact. And how can we now
say but that the court had- satisfactory.evidence before it, that one of
the heirs -was of age? "If it W's so stated in terms on the face of the
proceedings, and even if the jurisdiction of the court depended on
that fact; it is by- no means clear, that it would be permitted to contradict it, oi' a direct proceeding to reverse any order oi dectee made
by the court. But to permit that fact to be drawn in question in this
collateral way, is certainly not warranted by any principle of law."
2 Peters, 165, Thompsonv. Tolmie,
,"If the purchaser (under a decree, of the Orphans' Court) was
responsible for their mistakes -in point of fact, after they had'adjudicated upon the facts, and acted upon -them, those sales would be
snares for honest men.' 2 Peters, 169, cited 11 S. and R. 429.
"cThe purchaser is not bound' to'look farther back than, the order
of the court. - He is not to see whether the court were mistaken in
the facts of debts and children. The. decree of an Orphans' Court
in a case within its jurisdiction is reversible only on appeal, and not

JANUARY

TERM, 1844.

Grignon's Lessee

43

v. Astor et a].

collaterally in another suit. A title under a license to the administrator to sell real estate, "cis good against the heirs of the intestate,
although the license was granted upon the certificate of the juage of
probate, not warranted by the circumstance of the case."
cc The license was granted by a court having jurisdiction of the
subject: if it was improvidently exercised, or in a manner not-warranted by the evidence from the probate c(urts I yet it 'is not to be
corrected at the expense of the purchaser, -who had a right to rely
upon the order of the court, as an authority emanating from a court
of.competent jurisdiction." 2 Peters, 169, and 11 Mass. 227, cited.
In that case the jurisdiction of the court was held to attach, "cwhen
the acceptor dies intestate, and any of the" persons entitled to his
estate is a minor, (2 Peters, 165 ;)-so in this case it attaches on the
decease of any person indebted beyond the personal estate he leaves,
and when jurisdiction is once attached to a subject, or exists over a
person, this court has adopted as a .rule applicable to all courts of
:records that their decisions are conclusive; ,,it has a right to decide
.every question which occurs in a cause, and whether its decision be
,correct or otherwise, its judgment, until reversed, is binding on every
other court." 1 Peters, 340. In Voorhees v. The Bank of the United
States the same principle is applied to sales or executions under
judgments on adversary process, and such must hereafter be taken
to be the established law of judicial sales, as well relating to those
made in proceedings in rem, as i7i ersonam. 10 Peters, 473.
We do not deem it necessary, now or liereatter, to retrace the
reasons or the authorities on which the decisions of this court in that,
or the cases which preceded it, rested ; they are founded on the oldest
and most sacred principles of the common law. Time has consecrated them; the courts of the states have followed, and this court'
has never departed from them. They are rules of property, on which
the repose of the country depends; titles acquired under the proceedings of courts of competent jurisdiction must be deemed inviolable
in collateral action, or none can know what is his own; and there
are no judicial sales around which greater sanctity ought to be placed,
than those made of the estates of decedents, by-order.of those courts
to whom the laws of the states confide full jurisdiction over the subjects.
These sales are less expensive than when Jiade on executions;
more time is allowed to make them; the discretion of the court is
exercised as to time, manner, and the terms of sale; whereas on sales

344

SUPREM'E COURT.
Chouteau v. Eckhart.

by a sheriff, all is by compulsion and no credit is allowed; he cannot
offer one entire piece of property for sale in parcels ; the administrator
can divide and sell as best subserves the interest of the heirs, and sell
only so muchk as the emergency of the case requires.
It has been contended by the plaintiff's counsel, that the sale in
the present case is not valid, because Peter-Grignon had not such an
estate in the premises as could be sold under the order of the County
Cou t, it being only an equitable one before the patent issued in 1829 ;
but'the title became a legal one by its confirmation by the act of
Congress of.February, 1823, which -was equivalent to a patent. It
-was a higher e-idenbe of title, as it was the direct grant of the fee
which had been in the United States by the government itself,whereas
the patent was only -the act of its ministerial officers.
. These views of this case decide it, without examining the exceptions to the admission of evidence, the ruling of the court on the
insfruction prayed, or their charge to the jury. So far as either were
unfavourable to the plaintiff, they- are most fully sustained by the
foregoing principles 'afid cases; the County Court of Brown county
had undoubted jurisdiction of:(he subject; their proceedings are irreversible; the title of the purchaser'cannot be questioned ; and the
judgment'of the-court below must be affirmed with costs.
This cause came on to -be heard on the transcript of the record
from the. Supreme Court of the Territory of- Wisconsin, and was
argued by counsel On donsideration whereof, It is now here ordered
and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the said Supreme
Court of the Teiritory of Wisconsin in this cause be, and the same is
hereby'affirmed with costs.

PmnitE CHorTAv, SEN., PLi9YiFv- nq E

oR,.v. WLLAtN ECKHART.

This coutrt has jurisdiction, under the twenty-fifth section of Ihe Judiciary act,
in a Missouri land cause, where the title- is not to be determined by Spanish
jaws alone, but where the cnstruction of an act of Congress is involved to
sustain thp title.
The obligation of perfecting titles under Spanish concessions, which was as-

