344

SUPREM'E COURT.
Chouteau v. Eckhart.

by a sheriff, all is by compulsion and no credit is allowed; he cannot
offer one entire piece of property for sale in parcels ; the administrator
can divide and sell as best subserves the interest of the heirs, and sell
only so muchk as the emergency of the case requires.
It has been contended by the plaintiff's counsel, that the sale in
the present case is not valid, because Peter-Grignon had not such an
estate in the premises as could be sold under the order of the County
Cou t, it being only an equitable one before the patent issued in 1829 ;
but'the title became a legal one by its confirmation by the act of
Congress of.February, 1823, which -was equivalent to a patent. It
-was a higher e-idenbe of title, as it was the direct grant of the fee
which had been in the United States by the government itself,whereas
the patent was only -the act of its ministerial officers.
. These views of this case decide it, without examining the exceptions to the admission of evidence, the ruling of the court on the
insfruction prayed, or their charge to the jury. So far as either were
unfavourable to the plaintiff, they- are most fully sustained by the
foregoing principles 'afid cases; the County Court of Brown county
had undoubted jurisdiction of:(he subject; their proceedings are irreversible; the title of the purchaser'cannot be questioned ; and the
judgment'of the-court below must be affirmed with costs.
This cause came on to -be heard on the transcript of the record
from the. Supreme Court of the Territory of- Wisconsin, and was
argued by counsel On donsideration whereof, It is now here ordered
and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the said Supreme
Court of the Teiritory of Wisconsin in this cause be, and the same is
hereby'affirmed with costs.

PmnitE CHorTAv, SEN., PLi9YiFv- nq E

oR,.v. WLLAtN ECKHART.

This coutrt has jurisdiction, under the twenty-fifth section of Ihe Judiciary act,
in a Missouri land cause, where the title- is not to be determined by Spanish
jaws alone, but where the cnstruction of an act of Congress is involved to
sustain thp title.
The obligation of perfecting titles under Spanish concessions, which was as-

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

846

Chouteau v. Eckhart.

sumed by the United States in the Louisiana treaty, was a political obliga.
tion,,to be carried out by the legislative department of the government. Congress, in confirming or rejecting claims, acted as the successor of the intendantgeneral; and both exercised, in this respect, a portion of sovereign power.
The act'of Congress, passed on the 13th of June, 1812, confirming the titles and
claims of certain towns and villages to village lots and commons, gave a title'
which is paramount to a title held under an old Spanish concession, confirmed
by Congress in 1836.

Tins case was brought up from the Supreme Court of the state of
Missouri, by a writ of error issued inder the 25th section of the
Judiciary act of 1789.
The facts were these:,
On the 11th of January, 1797, Charles Tayon presented the following petition:
To Don Zenon 'Trudeau, lieutenant-govemor of the western' part of
Illinois, at St. Louis:
Charles Tayon, sub-lieutenant of infantry, pensioned by the king,
captain of militia, commandant, under your orders, of the village of
St. Charles, of Missouri, has the honour to pray you to grant him a.
tract of timbered land of six arpens in width, fronting .on the (mar-,
cies croche de la prairie bass6) Crooked swamp, in the row prairie,
and extending to the Missouri, adjoining, on one side, to Mr. Ant.
Janis, and on the other side, to lands not heretofore granted; favour
CHAniLEs TAYON.
which he expects of your justice. (Signed)
St. Louis, 11th January, 1797.
On the 23d of January, Trudeau returned the following answer:
St. Louis, January 23, 1-797.
Having been informed that the land asked for, in order to procure.
timber, is in no way fit to be improved, on account of the-inundations to which it is subject every year, and that the timber thereon is
only good tp bum, and will renew itself in a short time, and therefore cannot be ruined, as the timber growing on the hills, which experience has shown will never grow up again; and the said land
being in the vicinity of the village of St. Charles and of various
farms, in the prairie of its 'dependency, which would have to go a
great deal further tq procure wood; said tract shall remain (as well
as all others. adjoining, either in ascending or descending the Missouri, and which have been asked-for by sundry pptitions, addressed
to .us, together with the present, by Mr. Tayon) to the royal domain,
VOL. II.--44

346-

SUPREME COURT.
Chout-eau-v. Eckhart.

and for the common use of the said village of St. Charles, and for
the jlands already granted in the prairies, or to be granted hereafter:
all which Mr. Tayon shall make known to all the inhabitants, and
especially to those who have asked for land, and whose petitions I
Z-oN Tntm-.Au.
(Signed)
herewith return.
applied for an
Chouteau
Pierre
On the -17th of November, 1800,
follows:
as
concession,
of
a
previous
augmentation
To Don Carlos Dehault Delassus, lieutenant-colonel attached to the
stationary regiment of Louisiana, and lieutenant-governor of the
upper part of the same province:
Peter Chouteau, lieutenant of militia and commandant of the fort
of Carondelet, in the Osage nation, has the honour to represent to
you, that formerly he obtained of Don Manuel Perez, lieutenantgovernor of this part of Illinois, a concession for a tract of land of 10
arpens in front by as many in depth, to be taken on the left side of
the Missouri, at about 20 arpens above St. Charles, upon which concession your petitioner has made all preparatory works for the construction of a water grist-mill, which was to be built on the creek
comprised in his concession. The lieutenant-governor, Don Zenon
Trudeau, -was pleased to grant to your petitioner an augmentation to
the'said tract of 30 arpens in depth, all which is proven by the
authentic documents necessary to this object.. The desire of profiting of the favour which the general government granted to all those,:
who presented their titles to obtain their ratification, caused your
petitioner to address those same bove-mentioned documents to a
friend at New Orleans, to whom probably they have not been remitted, since.he could not effectuate their pre o.ntation; the said original
documents having not been registered in the archives of this government, your petitioner would be in great perplexity had he not to offer
to you-the attestation of Don Carlos Tayon, captain commanding te
village of St. Charles, of Miss6uri, who at that time had a perfect
knowledge of the original documents here above-mentioned, by virtue
of which your petitioner was authorized to begin an establishment
for which he has made considerable sacrifice.
Full of onfidence in the justice and generosity of the government,
he hopes that after the attestation you may be pleased to take from
the commandant of- St. Charles, you will have the goodness to ratify
"(o him, and in 'the place, the security of a property which he has
been enjoying for more than'tonu years by virtue of the titles to -him

JANUARY

TERM, 1844.

347

Chouteau v. Eckhart.
expedited by your predecessors, and of which he should wish that
you would be pleased to order the surveyor of the Upper Louisiana
to put him in possession in the following manner: to take two arpens
below the creek comprised in his concessioli, and above said creek
all the space which is between the said creek and the next plantation,
by the depth of forty arpens, in order' that, being possessed of the
certificate of survey which shall be delivered to him, he may, if
needed, have recourse to the superior authorities to obtain the- ratification of the said title. The petitioner presumes to hope every thing
fronil your justice in the decision of the case which he has the honour
to submit to your tribunal.
PIE.RE CHOUTEAU.
St. Louis of Illinois, 17th of November, 1800.
On the 18th of November, 1800, Delassus referred the matter to
Tayon, who replied as follows:
St. Louis of Illino s, 17th of JVvember,
1800.
Cognisance being taken of the foregoing statement, the sub-lieutenant in the royal army and captain of militia, commandant of the'
post of St. Charles, shall give, in continuation, information of all he
knows upon what is here asked.
DELAssus:
In compliance with the foregoing order, I 'd6 inform the lieutenant-governor that the statement of Don Pierre Chouteau is in all
conformable to truth, having had full knowledge of the titles mentioned by him in his petition, as well as of the considerable works he
has done on said land, of Which he has always been ackndwledged
as the proprietor.
CHARLES TAYON.
St. Louis, 25th November, 1800.
On the next day, the 26th of November, 1800, Delassus issued
the following order:St. Louis of llinois, 26th .November, 1800.
Having seen the foregoing informatio: and the just rights stated,
by Don Pedro Chouteau, to whom an unexpected accident has deprived of his title of concessibn, and considering that he has been
for a long time proprietor of the land in.question, the surveyor-of this'
Upper Louisiana, Don Antonio Soulard, shall put him in possession,
in the manner solicited, of the tract of land he petitions for; and the
survey being executed, he shall draw a plat of said survey, which he
shall deliver to the interested party, to serve to the said party to obtain
the title in form from the general intendencv, to which tribunal alone

348

SUPREME COURT.
Chouteau v. Eckhart.

corresponds, by royal order, the distributing and granting all classes
oflands of the royal domain.

CaRLos DEHAULT DELwssus.

On the 18th of January, 1801, the inhabitants of the village
of St. Charles had a meeting and adopted the following proceedings:
cc In the year eighteen hundred and one, on the 18th of January,
at the request of Mr, Louis Barrada, syndic for the fences of this parish,
we, Charles Tayon, captain-commandant of the said St. Charles, have
given-notice at the door of this said church, that all the inhabitants
of this place should have to assemble this day in our government
(house), in order to detbrmine vhether the commons at the lower end
should be increased or not., The said inhabitants being then assembled, and the question being under deliberation, they all unanimously
agreed, that for the interest of the said parish, the enclosed of the
lands shall begin (acorn) by the side of Mr. Antoine Lamarche,
and it shall be continued in descending to. the Crooked swvamp,
all the way through the woods, to nearly opposite the house of
the late Louis Hunault; thence it shall run in a straight line to the
Missouri.
cc The said inhabitants having thus determined on this head, it was
agreed that the syndic on duty this year shall cause to be measured
the quantity of arpens of land which are included in the new augmentation of the commons, in order to (separter)distribute to each
inhabitant what he is to do with it, according to the usages which
have always been observed, without wronging any one whosoevu
in the said distribution.
cc It has been further agreed in the said assembly, that if hereafter
the commons of the upper end should need to be enlarged, in order
to procure more pasturage for the cattlh, all the said inhabitants (s'y
porterons) shall help in'doing the same, as thi! day they bind themselves to do for the lower end; always without prejudice to any one
whosoever. And as the said inhabitants -will not undertake- any
thing without the consent of the lieutenant-governor, they have judged
proper that the present deliberation should be communicated to him,
and that he be supplicated to preserve to the .said inhabitants.of St.
Charles, of Missouri, their ul'per and lower commons, in their whole
and entire state, and they will bind themselves to enclose the same
as they have done heretofore, in order to preserve their grain and
other property.

JANUARY TERM; 1844.

349

Chouteau v. Eckhart.

",Done and agreed upon in our govemrent (house), day and year
as above. And all the said inhabitants have signed or made their
customary marks."
On the 26th of February, 1801, Delassus made the following reply:
St. Louis of llinois, Feruaiy206th, 1801.
All concessions and augmentations of property must be granted
by the intendant of these provinces, on a petition which is to be presented by those persons claiming lands , but if the comnons of the
inhabitafits of St. Charles is not sufficient for their cultivation, we do
permit them, provisionally, to enlarge the same according to their
wishes, without insuring to them the right of property, which they
are to apply for as above mentioned. And the provisional lines of
the said augmentation shall be drawn by Captain Antoine Soulard,
surveyor of Upper L6uisiana, who is the only person authorized to
survey under our orders. It being well understood that nothing
shall be done to-the prejudice of any person.
(Signed)
CiALos DnH WL.DELAssus.
On the 23d of February, 1804, Delassus issued another order as
follows:
C.-In consequence of the representation of the inhablitants of
your post, which appears to me very just and well founded, after my
decree of 26th February, in the year 1801, by which.the auginentation therein mentioned is granted to them, and for which they'have
asked a survey by their petition of 27th April of the same yearwhich petition you have kept to this day without making it known
to me, for which I hold you responsible-I apprize yon-that the surveys made in the said place cannot belong to any individual, but to
the commons of St. Charles. Therefore you shall notify those who
have had surveys made in the said place of this disposition, and you
shall take the necessary measures for the execution of the whole survey asked fbr by the said petition of 27th April, according to the
aforesaid decree of 26th February, in the.year 1801.
May God have.you in his holy keeping.
Signed in the original,

CAPLOS DEHAULT DEr.Assus.

Mr. Charles' Tayon.
St. Louis of Illnois, 23d February, 1804.
I certify that the above is a copy of the original, (official litter,)
addressed to Mr. Charles Tayon by the ex-commander-in-chief of
2G

SUPREME COURT.

350

Cho'uteau v. Eckhart.

Upper
Louisiana, Don Carlos Dehault Delassus, and presented to
me by the
citizens of note.of the village of St. Charles, while I
was
commandant of the said village.
(Signed)

JAMs MACKAY.

On the 2d of March, 1804, the surveydr-general, Soulard, having
made a survey and plat in conformity with the above order, issued
the following certificate:"
I, Anthony Soulard, surveyor-general of Upper Louisiana, do
hefeby certify, that a tract of land was surveyed, meted, and bounded
for, and in presence of, the -syndic and inhabitants of St. Charles,
(Missouri,) with th6 assistance of many of the inhabitants of said
village, such as is represented in the plan hereto annexed, according
to their petition "therefore, dated January 18th, 1801, and the decree
of the lieutenant governor, by which I am ordered to put them in
possession of a sufficient quantity of land to serve them as a common;
which'surveys being completed, I find the said tract of land to contain
14,000 arpens, (superficial measure,) the admeasurement being made
with the perch of Paris, of 18 pies in length, also Paris measure according to the usages or customs of this country, which tract of land
is situate on the left side of the Missouri river, at about twenty-one
miles from the town of St. Louis, bounded as follows, viz.: N. E.,
lands of the royal domain; S. E., the river Missouri; S. W., partly
by land of St. James dIEglise ; N. W., by sundries, namely, Francis
Duquettei the inhabitants.of Marias Croche, lands at the Mamelles,
lands of various proprietors, and lastly, by lands of Frs. Dugette,
Joseph Tayon, John Tayon, and royal domain. This survey and
admeasurement made without noticing the variation magnetic needle,
which is (now) 7' 301 E.;. the whole as represented in the plan
hereto prefixed, in which the courses, distances, metes, bohnds, &c.,
are noted.

This survey made in conformity to the decree of the late lieutenant
governor, Ch. D. Delassus, dated February 26th, 1801, which is
hereto annexed, the whole' laid down from the field-notes of my
deputy, James Mackay, dated on the 27th (day following) of the
month. of February, of this present year, which I signed.
ANTHONY SOULARD.
St. Louis, March 2d, 1804.
.. otes.-AU the metes and comers are designated in the plan. All
the trees in the lines are blazed, with two notches below the blaze.
Tne trees on the right and left of the lines are merely blazed. A. is

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

351

Chouteau v. Eckhart

a, tract of land subdivided among several persons, and called the Cul
de Sac lands. C. is a tract also granted to several persons, and
called the Grand Prairie.
I, Anthony Soulard, surveyor-general of Upper Louisiana, do
hereby certify, that the above plan and notes of a survey agree in
every part with'the originals, which are filed in my office.
ANTUONY.-SOULAD,

Surv. Gen.

St. Louis of Illinois, March 2d, 1804.
On the 2d of March, 1805, Congress passed an act " for ascertaining and adjusting the titles and claims to land within the territory of
Orleans and the district of Louisiana ;" the general purport of which
was to .recognise all existing grants. It further provided for the
appointment of three persons who should examine and decide on all
claims submitted to them and report the result to the secretary of the
treasury, who was directed to communicate it to Congress.
On the 3d of February, 1806, the inhabitants of the village of St.
Charles laid such of the above papers as relate to their title before
the commissioners appointed under the act of 1805, and claimed a
common for the general benefit'of the inhabitants.
On the 3d of March, 1807, Congress passed another act relating
to these land-titles, explanatory and corrective of the preceding act.
Both claims, that of Chouteau and the inhabitants of the village,
were presented to the commissioners, who rejected Chouteau's and
took-no notice of the claim of the inhabitants of the village.
On the 13th of June, 1812, Congress passed another act c making
firther provision for settling the claims to land in the territory of
Missburi ;" in which, amongst other things, it is enacted, " That the
rights, titles, and claims to town or village lots, out-lots, common
field lots, and commons, in, adjoining, and belonging to the several
towns or villages of Portage des Sioux, St. Charles, &c., &c., &c.,
which lots have been inhabited, cultivated, or possessed priorto the
20th day of December, 1803, shall be, and the same are hereby confirmed to the inhabitants of the respective towns or.villages aforesaid,
according to their several right.or rights in common thereto : provided,
that nothing herein contained shall be construed to affect the rights
of any persons claiming the s ame lands, or any part thereof, whose.
claims have been confirmed by the board of commissioners for adjust-.
ing and settling claims to land in the said territory."
In 1813 another act was passed upon the subject, which does not
appear to have any materialbearing upon the case.

1 52

SUPREME

COURT.

Chouteau v. Eckhart.

On the 26th of May, 1824, Congress passed another act cc enabling
the claimants to lands within the limits of the state of Missouri and
territory of Arkansas, to institute proceedings to try the validity of
their claims." It allowed any -persons claiming lands under old
grants or surveys, under certain circumstances, to present a petition
to the District Court of the state of Missouri, which court was authorized to give a decree in the matter, reviewable, if need be, by the
Supreme Court of the United States. The 5th section provided that
a claim not before the District Court in two years, or not prosecuted
to final judgment in three years, should be for ever barred, both at
law and in equity; and the 7th section directed that where a claim
tried under the provisions of. the act, should be finally decided
against the claimant, or barred by virtue of any of the provisions
of the act, the land specified in such claim, should, forthwith, be
held and taken as part of the public lands of the United States,
subject to the same disposition as -any other public land in the same
district.
This act was continued in force by the act of the 26th lay,
1826, for two years; and by the act of 24th May, 1828, it was continued in force for the purpose of filing petitions, until the 26th day
of May, 1829, and for the purpose of adjudicating upon the claims,.
until the 26th day of May, 1830.
Neither the claim of Chouteau nor the inhabitants of the village of
St. Chairles appears to have been presented to the District Court
under any of these acts.
On the 27th of January, 1831, Congress passed another act, being
a supplement to the act of 1812, in which it was declared, "cThat the
United States do hereby relinquish to the inhabitants of the several
towns or villages of Portage des Sioux, St. Charles, &c., &c., &c.,
all the right, title, and interest of the United States, in and to the town
or village lots, out-lots, common field lots, and commons, in, adjoining, and belonging to the said towns or vilages, confirmed to them
respectively by the first section of the act of Congress, entitled, &c.,
passed on the 13th 'day of June, 1812."
On the 9th of July, 1832, Congress passed "can act for the final
adjustment of 'rivate' land-claims in Missouri," which authorized
commissioners to examine all the unconfirmed claims to land in that
state, &c. &c., to class them, and at the commencement of each session of Congress during said term of-examination, lay before the commissioner of the general.land-office a report of the claims so classed,

JANUARY

TERM, 1844.

358

Chouteau v. Eckhar.t.

&c., to be laid before Congress for their final decision upon the
claims contained in the first class.
On the 9th of November, 1832I,Choutean presented his claim to
these commissioners, who, on the 2d of November, 1833M, unanimously determined that the claim ought to be confirmed to the said
Peter Chouteau, or to his legal representatives, according to the concession. Before this decision- was made, Congress, by an act passed
on the 2d of March, 1833, had directed the comnissioners to embrace every claim to a dcfnatior of land, held in virtue of settlement
and cultivation.
On the 4th of July, 1836, Congress passed another act confirming
elaim:4 to land in the state of Missouri, by which it was declared that
the decisions in favour of land-laimimts, made by the above commissioners were confirmed, savingand reserving, however, to all adverse
claimants, the right to assert the validity of their claims in a court or
courts of justice; and the second section declared that-if it should be
found that any tract or tracts thus confirmed, or any part thereof, had
been previously located by any other person or persons under any
law of the United States, or had been surveyed or sold by the United
States, the present act should confer no title to such.lands in opposition to the rights acquired by- such location or purchase, &c. &c.
In Jariuary and February, 1837, Chouteau had the land surveyed,
which he claimed under the above confirmation, and it was admitted
upon the trial that- this survey included the land in possession of
Eckhart' for which the present ejectment was brought
Chouteau having brought an ejectment, the cause came on to be
tried in May, 1840. The defendant, Eckhird, endeavoured to show
an outstanding title in the inhabitants of the village of St. Charles,
under the grant for a common.
Upon the trial, the plaintiff, Chouteau, offered in evidence such of
the facts above detailed as bear upon his title, and the defendrnt, in'
addition, gave the following evidence:
He then proved, by Judge Spencer, that he (witness) came to St,'
Louis in the winter of i796 ; that he came to St. Charles in the winter of 1798; when he.came to St. Charles, the town was surrounded
by a fence. The witness, looking on the plat of the survey of the
commons, said that the claim of Spencer under Rybolt was granted
to cbnform to the fence of the commons, and to have the fence of the
commons as its northern line; and, looking upon the plat of survey
given in evidence by the plaintiff; says the whole of the land covered.
VOL. I.-45
2 G2

354

SUPREME COURT;Chouteau v. Eckhart.

by the plaintiff's claim, as laid down on that plat, was included in
the commons fence, which was standing when he came, here, and
remained until after 1804.
Mr. Cunningham, another witness of the defendant, said that he
was a deputy-surveyor of the United States, and, as such, he has
surveyed the.exterior lines of the commons of the town of St. Charles;
that, in making such survey, he in some places found the lines of the
Spanish survey, in others the timber was cut down, and, in prairie
land, no lines of courses could be found; and that the Spanish survey
conformed to the plat given in evidence in this cause.
This being all the evidence, the court, on motion of the defendant,
instructed the jury, that, "cif they believed, from the evidence, that
the premises in controversy are included in the tract of land surveyed
under the authority of the Spanish lieutenant-governor of Upper
Louisiana, for the commons of the town of St. Charles, and held by
the inhabitants of said town, and enclosed by them as their commons,
ander the Spanish government, the plaintiff cannot recover in this
action;" to which instruction the plaintiff, by his counsel, excepts,.
and prays the court to sign this his bill of exceptions, which is done,
and the same is 'Made part of the record.
Both plaintiff and defendant gave in evidence sundry acts of Congress, and defendant gave in evidence a private act of the legislature
of the state of Missouri, which they.agree shall not be set out in the
bill of exceptions, but may be read, and considered evidence in the
Supreme Court, as if here inserted.
The jury, under this instruction found a verdict for the defendant.
The case was carried to the Supreme Court of Missouri, where the
judgment was affirmed, from *bich it was brought, by writ of error,
to this court.
Lawless and Bogg, for the plaintiff in error.
Gamble, for the defendant in error.
The counsel for the plaintiff made the following points:
Ist. That his title to the land in question is protected by the treaty
of cession of 1803, article 3d, and confirmed by the Congress of the
United States as such.
2d, That the title attempted to be shown in the town of St.
Charles has not been sustained by any proof of grant by Spain or
France, or by any grant or act of Congress since the treaty of cession.
3d. That the defendant having shown no title in himself, and no

JANUARY

TERM, '1844.

255

Chouteau v. Eckhart.

outstanding legal estate, the decision of the Supreme Court of Mis-"
souri, overruling a claim, right, and title derived from the Spanish
government, guarantied by the treaty of cession and confirmed by
Congress, iserroneous and ought to be reversed.
In support of the first point, they cited the cases of Delassus and
Ch6uteau and Mackay, reported in 9 Peters, and contrasted those
cases with the present.
Assuming then, as demonstrated, that the plaintiff's title wa§
.prima facie good, his counsel will proceed to analyze that set up by
the defendant, which the court will have already observed, is simply
an attempt to show an outstanding legal estate, in the tract confirmed
to Peter Couteau, in the town of St. Charles, or in the trustees of that
town. The defendant has not shown any derivative title in him to
the land in question, nor any colour for his possession thereof.
The question then, before the court is, whether the title of the
town of St. Charles to their commons is paramount to that of the
plaintiff, and includes the land which, as has been shown, was
granted by the Spanish authorities to Peter Chouteau. If this question be resolved negatively, it must follow, that the decision of the
Supreme Court of Missouri has been erroneously given against the
itle and right of Chouteau specially set up under the treaty of cession
and the acts of Congress, and'the repeated decision's of the Supreme
Court in analogous cases.
The court will please to observe that no specifi. grant has been"
given in evidence by the defendant, of land as commons to the
village of St. Charles.
The documents which have been given in evidence by thd defendant will be seen, not only not to constitute a grant of commons, but
specifically to refute the presumption of, and to negative such a grant.
In order to arrive at the conclusion that the town of St. Charles
had title to a tract of land as commons, and that the land in question
formed part of that tract, and that a legal estate in the whole of that
common tract was outstanding against.the plaintiff in ejectment, the
counsel for the defendant were compelled to contend that the act of
Congress of the 13th June, 1812, entitled "can act making further
provision for settling the claims to land in the territory of Missouri,"
had the effect, proapio vigore, of confirming to the town (or village)
of St. Charles, the title to the whole of the 14,000 acres included in
the survey given in evidence by the defendant as common ccadjoining and belonging to" that town, (village).

:356

SUPREME COURT.
Chouteau v. Eckhart.

This interpretation of the act of 1812 has been adopted by the
Supreme Court of Missouri, and, as a corollary or consequence of
this construction, it has been decided by that court that a confirmation by the act of 1812 of commons, necessarily annuls or neutralizes,
as against the inhabitants of the town or village, all grants or surveys
made under the French or Spanish government, no matter of what
date, which previous to the passage of the act of 1812 had not been
"cconfirmed by the board of commissioners for adjusting and settling
claims to land" in the then territory of Missouri.
The first section of the act of 1812-is relied on by defendant and
by the Supreme Court of Missouri for the above operation. The
counsel for the plaintiff in error submits that such a construction of
the act of 1812, sect. 1st, is in opposition to the terms 'of the act
itself, and would also be violatory of rights vested at the date of the
treaty of. cession, and protected by that treaty and by acts of Congress;
The first*section of the act (the only part of that law which bears
on the subject) enacts,, "cthat the rights, titles, and claims to, in town
or yillage lots, out-lots, common field lots and commons, or adjoining
and belonging to the several towns or villages of Portage des Sioux3
St. Charles, St. Louis and others in the Territory of Missouri, which
lots have been inhabited, cultivated; and possessed prior to the 20th
day of December, 1803, shall be, and the same are hereby confirmed
to the inhabitants of the respective towns or villages aforesaid, according to their several right or rights in common thereto, provided that
nothing herein shall be construed to affect the rights of any persons
claiming the same lands, or any part thereof, whose claims have
been confirmed by the board of commissioners for adjusting and
settling claims to land in said territory."
It is manifest from the terms of this section, that it was not the
intention of Congress to confirm any lots or commons which did not
on the 20th of December' 1803, belong to the several towns or
villages mentioned respectively. The words "ein, adjoining, and
belonging to the several towns and villages" are surely significant
and explicit terms-the words c which lots have been inhabited,
cultivated, or possessed prior to the 20th December, .1803," are not
more explicit and significant than, the former 'words cc in adjoining
and belonging to"--yet the Supreme Court of Missouri have solemnly
decided in the case of Jonas Newman v. L. E. Lawless, Missouri
Reports, 279, that the first section of the act of 1812 could have no

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

357

Chouteau v. Ejokhart.

confirmatory operation, in. the case of a town lot in St. Louis, unless
it were distinctly proved that on the 20th December, 1803, the lot
existed as a St. Louis town lot. In that case the plaintiff Newman
having failed to prove that essential fact, the judgment rendered
against him in the Circuit Court was affirmed by the Supreme Court
of Missouri. The Supreme Court of Missouri based their decision
on the terms of the act which manifestly call for the existence of a
town lot, and the possession of it as such on the*20th December,
1803, as essential to the confirmatory operation of the law.
It is submitted that precisely the same sound principle of 'construction ought to have been applied by the Supreme Court of Missouri
to the case b'rfore the court, and it is contended that if it had been
so applied, it would have led the Supreme Court to a decision in
favour of the plaintiff. There could be no greater reason or justice
for the confirmation of a title to a piece of ground as common, which
did. not belong as common to a village; than for the confirmation of a
lot which. did not exist or did not belong to anybody on the 20th
December, 1803.
The Supreme Court of Missouri, in the present case, -observe that
there seem to be no questions arising in this case which were not
involved inthe case of Byrd v. Montgomery, 6 Missouri Rep.'510.
With great respect for the Supreme Court of Missouri, the counsel
for' the plahitiff in error contend that the facts in the case of
Byrd v. Montgomery. are totally different from those of the -present
case.
In the case of Byrd. v. Montgomery, there was no grant of the
specific tract of land to the person under whom the defendant claimed
title. The defendant in that case set up, (as against the title of the
town under the act of 1812,) a concession to one Francis Giguiere,
dated 14th May, 1800, which was what is termed a floating concession, authorizing (a location and survey on any part of the royal domain. No survey was made under' this concession during the Spanish government, and the confirmation was reported by the recorder
in 1815, on the. ground of settlement right, arising out of improvement.

The Supreme Court of Missouri were of opinion, that this confirmation in 1815, by the recorder, was subordinate to the confirmation
of' the commons of St. Charles by the act of 13th June, 1812,
section 1st.
It is by no means the intenti9n of the counsel for the plaintiff in

358

SUPREME COURT.
Chouteau v. Eckhar.t.

error, to assent to the correctness of, the doctrines laid down in the
case of Bird v. Montgomery. Quite the reverse; but the counsel for
the plaintiff in error contend, that the title of the plaintiff in error in
this case is totally different from that of Montgomery.
in the present case the grant to Chouteau, as has been observed,
was special--it required no survey to locate it or ascertain its metes
and bounds-these were specially described in the grant to Chouteau.
Again, in Siguin's case, there was no possession--no improvementno expenditure of money, skill, or labour in compliance with, and
upon the condition imposed in the grant. In Giguiere's case there
was no severance effected in favour of the grantee, of'the land granted
from the public domain. The treaty of cession, therefore, did not
specially guaranty the land as it clearly did in the present case.
The'confirmation by the recorder in 1815 was based on cultivation
in or prior to 20th December, 1803, and by virtue of the donation
law of 1805, and the 3d section of the act of 1812. The report of
the recorder of the lst November, 1815, which embraced Siguin's
settlement, was affirmed by the act of 29th April, 1816. It is manifest, therefore, that Giguiere's title emanated'from a donation law of
Congress, and not from an ancient and paramount Spanish grant,
which, as in the. principal case, severed the land from the royal domain, and as such was protected by the treaty as private property.
It certainly has not been said or decided in.the Supreme Court of
Missouri, that a~mere claim, without any shadow of right, could be
enforced by Congress to the prejudice of an existing right and titleparticularly such a right and title as that vested in the plaintiff in
error.
The very reverse has. been laid down by the Supreme Court of
Missouri in the case of the widow and heirs of Mackay v. Dillon,
7 'Missouri Rep. 7. The language of that court in- that case'is
unambiguous on this point. They say, "that only such claims as
were founded on right were designed to be confirmed. A mere
claim, unaccompanied by any shadow of right, is clearly not such a
claim as any act of Congress could donfirm. The force of the term
confirmation, of itself, implies some sort of a title in previous existence."
It is true that the Supreme Court of Missouri, in the above case,
came to the conclusion that the title of the inhabitants under the 1st
section of the act of 1812, june 13th, to commons, was paramount
to that of the plaintiff, who claimed under a grant and survey made

JANUARY

TERM, 1844.

359

Chouteaun v. ,Eckhart.

under the Spanish government to their ancestor, and a grant ,anil
survey recognised by ihe claimants of the commons, and laid down
specially on the .plot of survey, made in 1806 by Mackay himself,
and submitted in support of the claim.
While the counsel for the plaintiff in error protest against the conclusi6n to which te Supreme Court of Missouri has arrived in the
above case, as illogical, and utterly illegal and unconstitutional; they
nevertheless feel ju'stified in availing themselves.of the admissions of
that court, as above cited, to demonstrate thAt the doctrine insisted
on by the defendant in this case, namely: that the act of 1812 confirmed to the people of St. Charles 14,000 acres of land, including
the tract granted to the plaintiff, cannot be sound unless he previously
establish that the tract claimed by the plaintiff constituted a part of
the commons of St. Charles, on the 20th December, 1803. The
words of the 1st section of the act of 13th June, 1812, would re.lly
seem to preclude all doubt on this point. According to those words,
no rights, titles, or claim. to commons are confirmed but those cto
commons adjoining and belonging" to the several towns 'and villages.
named, and "caccording to theii right in common thereto.' To contend that this act could confirm or grant commons which were "cnot?'
adjoining and belonging to, those towns or villages, and to which the
inhabitants had no "cright in.common," would be to make a new
law, and positively repeal that of 1812.
When we examine the action of Congress, on the French and
Spanish unconfirmed titles at the date of the passage of the act of
1812, it must be manifest that it could not havd been the intention
of Congress "to interfere with or transfer" (to use the language of
Chief Justice Marshall in the above-cited cae of Delassus under
Deluzieres) to the town of St. Charles, the. tract claimed by Pierre
•ChQuteau. As has been, shpwn, the claim of the plaintiff in error
under his grant, had been placed before the first- board of commissioners, under the act of 1805, was duly filed with the United
States recorder, and had been, previously to the treaty of cession,
actually registered among the archives of the Spanish government at
St. Louis, as appears by the certificate of the surveyor-general Soulard,
and by the book of Spanish record in St. Louis, to which he refers.
This court will please to direct its attention to the act oi Cbngress,
approved February 15, 1811. 2 Story's Laws, 1178.
It will be seen that Congress by the 6th and 10th sections of that
act, specially provided that no land should be disposed of at public or

SUPREME COURT.
Chouteau v. Eckhart.

private sale, "the. claim to which has been in due time and according
to law presented to the recorder of land-titles and filed in his-officefor
the purpose of being investigated by the commissioners." The court
will also see that in no case was the decision of the commissioners in
Missouri final, when that decision was against the claimant. Congress uniformly, in all the, acts passed from 1805, to 13th June,
1812, inclusive, reserved the power to pass finally on those claims.
It is not contended that the act of 1812 amounted to a final disposition by Congress of the claim, right, and title, of Pierre Chouteau,
Sen:, to the land now in question.
The acts of Congress, since passed for the relief of claimants
under French and Spanish unconfirmed titles in Missouri ,and
Arkansas, demonstrate that Congress considered Chouteau's title as
still in being, and not destroyed or even weakened by any antecedent law.
If this be not so, it must follow that the act of Congress of May
26, 1824, tie act of 1828 continuing the act of 1824, the acts of
i832 and 1833; and lastly the act of 4th July, 1836, specifically confirming the- title of the plaintiff in error, -must have been all of them
absurd and without a subject-matter to act-upon. If the right, title,
and claim of Chouteau to the tract now in question,,had been extinguished by the confirmation to the towni of St. Charles, it would seem
that it, thencefoi-ward, must have ceased to exist. It would be, it
is submitted, a solecism, a contradictionin terms, to contend that
Chouteau's title, though a nullity as against the titic of the town of
St.-Charles, could have any being or validity as against the United
States.
It seems, therefore, manifest that the utmost operation that can be
given to the act of 1812 in'favour of tho towns and villages mentioned
is, that of a transfer by the United States to those towns and villages
of the right, title; and claim of the United States to ail such land adjoining -these towns and villages as belonged to these towns or
villages as-commons, and had not ibeen granted to private individuals. and were not protected by existing laws or treaties.
HaVing said this much on the general principles upon which the
1st 'section of the act of 1812:bught to be-construed and administered, and having'shown, that excluding from our consideration the
title set up by the defendant under the. town of.-St.; Charles, the
plaintiff has established his -prima.fade case, the counsel for the
plaintiff in error will now 'proceed, as summarily as they can, to

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

861

Chouteau v. Eckhart

examine the grounds of the claim of the town of St. Charles to the
tract in question as forming part of its common, and hope to be able
to satisfy the court that the very documents given in evidence by the
defendant negative,, most positively, the claim of the inhabitants to
the land for which this action was brought against the defendant
William Eckhatt.
(The counsel then examined Tayon's petition and Trudeau's
answer, which are set fortl in the statement of the case, and contended that the land of the plaintiff was not included, because the
Marais Croche was situated below the town of St. Charles, and the
grant of the plaintiff above the town; 'and also that the character of
the land did not accord with that claimed by the plaintiff.)
Again, in the response of the lieutenant-governor there is no grant
at all of common to the village ofSt. Charles. There is only a declaration that the wooded and low ground asked- for by Tayon shall
remain royal domain, and that the inhabitants of St. Charles may
use it to obtain fuel. It is manifest that at the date of this answer of
the lieutenant-governor to Tayon no grant had ever previously been
made or even asked'for of common. 'rayon in his petition treats the
land he asks for as land of the domain, and the lieutenant-governor
in his reply affirms this view of it, and at the utmost assents to the
use of it, until further order,'by the inhabitants. It is difficult to
imagine why or how this document can be relied on or used to
establish the existence, in favour of the village of St. Charles on the
20th December, 1803, of any-common right to the Chouteau tract,
or indeed of any definite commons at all, upon which the 1st section
of the act of 13th June, 1812, can possibly operate.
(The counsel then 'examined the proceedings of the inhabitants of
the village, as detailed in the statement and observed,)
It is manifest from the above proceedings of the inhabitants of St.
Charles, that at its date they bad but a small tract which they used
as common, or for the purpose of fuel, and that that part must have
been the same referred to by Don Zenon Trudeau, in his answer to
Tayon, and therefore situated on the Marais Croche below St. Charles.
It is also manifest that the inhabitants at the date of said proceedings
had no grant of commons from the Spanish government of any land
adjoining the village; and that the 1lnguage of Zenon Trudeau,
treating the woodland as royal domain, was assented to by the inhabitants of St. Charles, not only in 1797, but on the 18th of January,
1801, the date of the proceedings.
VOL. I.--46
2 H-

SUPREME COURT.
Chouteau v. Eckhart.

It is manifest also, that those simple people never intended by the
extension of the common to interfere with any private vested interest
or right. They pledge themselves to exert themselves, but-" always
without prejudice .to the interests of any person." They evidently
never intended.to deprive Pierre Chouteau of his property. They
must al of them have been perfectly acquainted with Chouteau's
land. The works executed by Chouteau and his ancient possession
must have been notorious, and it is not to be supposed that the
inhabitants of the village who were employed by Chouteau on his
land, could have been ignorant of his claim to it. This view of
those proceedings is submitted in, order the better to understand the
effect and import of the other documents, and evidence offered in
suiport of the claim of commons in this case.
(The counsel then examined the effect of the meeting of the
inhabitants which took place in January, 1801, and the order consequent upon it; and argued that no grant could be inferred from that
order. Thei-then examined the survey of Mackay, and contended,
1. This survey is totally unauthorized by the decree in obedience
to'which it is recited to be made.
2. This survey,, admitting its exterior lines to have been correctly
run, arnd in conformity to the order of the lieutenant-governor, does
not conflict at all with. the. grant of the plaintiff in error, but is
consistent with its existence andvalidity.
Whichpoints were argue, at length.)
In conclusion, the fQllowing were, stated as the points which t.:
-agument was considered as establishing,
1st. That the title of the plaintiff- in 'error to the tract granted to
him on the 25th of November, 1800, by the lieutenant-governor of
Upper Louisiana, is protected and guarantied by the treaty of cession,
article 3, and has been specifically confirmed by the act of the 4th
July,. 1836.
2d. That the United States survey, No. 2982, given in evidence
by the plaintiff, identifies the' land so granted.
3d That by virtue of said grant and survey so guarantied by
treaty and confirmed by act of Congress, the plaintiff in error is
entitled to the possession -of'the whole of the land included in said
grant aoid survey.
4th. Thatthe act of June 13, 1812, did not operate as a grant of the
land, included in the grant and survey of the plaintiff in error, to the
town of St, Charles fok commons, or for any other purpose.

JANUARY

TERM, 1844.

363

Chouteau v. Eckhart.

5th. That neither the town of St. Charles nor the defendant'has
shown any title whatever, to the land included in the United States
survey, No. 2982, given in evidence on behalf of the plaintiff in
error.
6th. That the survey and certificate offered in evidence by the
defendant, are erroneous, iltegai,, and on the face of them void.
. 7th. That admitting the survey, No. 2982, to be within the exterior lines of the survey given in evidence by the defendant, of the
commons of St. Charles, it does not follow that the grant and survey
of'the plaintiff in erro r are absorbed and annulled.
8th. That tie town of St. Charles is estopped from denying' the
plaintiff's title.
9th. That the title of the plaintiff in error to the land included in
survey, No. 2982, is clear, definite, and specific, and clothed with all
possible documentary form, coupled with a possession of upwards of
twenty years.
10th. That the title set up by the town -of St. Charles' is; in its
inception, uncertain, illegal, and even fraudulent.
11th. That the instruction given to the jury who tried the. ejectment, by the Circuit Court of Missouri, on motion of the defendant,
to wit: "cThat if"
the- jury believed from the evidence that the premises in controversy are included in the tract of land surveyed under
the authority of the Spanish lieutenant-governor'of Upper Louisiana
for the commons of the town of St. Charles, and held by said town,
and enclosed by them 9s their common, under the Spanish govern:
ment, the plaintiff cannot recover in this action," were, illegal and
unjust instructions, inasmuch as they assume facts as proved which
were not proved, and leave matters of pure law to be'decided by the
jury, and were calculated to lead the jury into a mistake and misapprehension of fact and of law.
Gamble, for the defendant in error.'It appears that both parties 'claim the land, under titles originating
under the Spanish goyernment in Louisiana. 'So far as there is a
confllct between these Spanish titles, and so far as the court of 'Mis:
souri have decided between the parties on the relative merits of these
titles, it is believed that the Supreme Court .ofthe-United States have
not the jurisdiction to review the judgments of the state courts.
The courts of Missouri, in deciding upon the rights of parties, as
they existed under the Spanish government, are governed by the

364

SUPREME COURT.
Chouteau v. Eckhart

Spanish law, and neither the treaty of cession, nor the laws of the
United States, are drawn in question in such decisions. If either
party, by invoking the treaty as the guaranty of his rights, could
draw his case within the cognisance of the Supreme Court (: the
United States, then all questions which may arise about property in
Missouri, Arkansas, or Louisiana, claimed by title originating under
the former governments, may be brought before this court. This
question may, however, be regarded as settled, by the decision of
this court
the case of the City of New Orleans v. De Armas and
Cucullu, 9 Peters, 224. So far, then, as the state courts have decided this case, upon the comparative merits of the two Spanish titles
exhibited by the parties, that decision will be regarded as conclusive
by this court, uless, in making that decision, the state courts have
improperly disregarded the claim of the plaintiff, as it may have been
asserted under an act of Congress.
The plaintiff, in this case, exhibits his claim to the land in question, as commencing under the Spanish authorities, and then produces
the act of Congress of the -4th of July, 1836, (4 Story's Laws of
the United States, 2515,) as the confirmation of his title.
The defendant exhibits the title of the inhabitants of the town of
St. Clarles, under whom he claims this same land, as also commencing under the Spanish government, and as confirmed by the act of
Congress of the 13th June, 1812. 2 Story's Laws of the United
States, 1257.
The court of -St. Charles decides, between these two itles, in
favour of that set up by the'defendant.
If the question were between the tiles, only as Spanish titles, the
state courts would have the exclusive right to determine it, but here
are two acts of Congress, under which the parties severally claim,
as the completion of their respective incomplete Spanish titles, and
the state courts have supported the title of the defendant, under the
confirmation by the act of 13th June, 1812.
The instruction given by the Circuit Court leaves to the jury to
decide, from the evidence, " whether the land in question is included
in the tract surveyed, under the authority of the Spanish lieutenantgovernor, for the c6mmon of the town of St. Charles, and held by
the inhabitants of said town, and enclosed by them as their common,
under the Spanish government ;' and pronounces the law, that if the
land is embraced in such claim of common, then the plaintiff cannot
recover in this action. The jury have found that the land is included
-,

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

365"

Chouteau v. Eckhart.

in the tract thus surveyed, thus held and enclosed as a common,
under the Spanish government.
The instruction of the court is founded upon a comparison of the
Spanish title to the commons, confirmed by the act of 1812, -with the
Spanish title of the plaintiff, as confirmed by the act of 1836; and
is a decision in favour of the commons' title.
As this case fairly presents the question between two confirmations, by different acts of Congress, it becomes proper to consider the
effect of such confirmations upon the legal title. It is to be borne in
mind, that the act of Jme, 1812, confirms the claims to commons,
as the final act of the government, and contemplates no other evi-.
dence of title to be thereafter given by the government; it is not a
confirmation in the future, or dependent upon any condition; its
language is, " the claims to commons," &c., " shall be, axid the
same are hereby confirmed."
It is believed to be clear, upon principle and authority, that when
an act of Congress of this character has passed, and nothing remains
to be done by any officer of the government to convey the title,
the title passes by the act itself, and no shadow of title remains
in the government to be conveyed subsequently to another individual.
The Supreme Court of Missouri has uniformly maintained this
doctrine, and. although the decisions of that court are not of binding
authority in this tribunal, -when construing an act of Congress, yet
they are entitled to much consideration in a case like the present,
when we reflect that such acts of Congress operate on.a class of landtitles with which that court is 'familiar, and in which the citizens ofthe state are largely interested; and that acts of this description are
always passed at the instance, and utpon the urgent solicitation of the
citizens of the state in which the lands to be affected lie. Under
such circumstances, the proper m'eaning and effect of -such acts are
at once presented to the legal mind of the state, and are kept before
*that mind, until the acts receive a construction founded upon an
acquaintance with the whole subject on which the acts. operate.
This construction is to be found in the decisions of the courts.
While, therefore, this court, in examining a statute designed to
operate throughout the United States, or through many of the states,
(as do all general laws in relation to the public' lands,) will be but
little influenced by the authority of a state decision ; it will be persuasively influenced by such a decision giving the interpretation of
212

366

SUPREME COURT.
Chouteau v. Eckhart-

an act of Congress which is local, and is applicable to a subject
peculiarly within the acquaintance of the state tribunal.
(The counsel here commented on the decisions -of tha Supreme
Conrt of Missouri in the cases Vasseur v. Benton, 1 Mo. Rep. 296 ;
Bird v. Montgomery, 6 Mo. Rep. 510.; Mackay's heirs v. Dillon,
7 Mo. Rep. 7; and also Strother v. Lucas, 12 Peters, 454.)
It is submitted to the court that in whatever light a confirmation
by act of Congress is to be viewed, whether as a new grant, or as
connecting itself with the original title or claim of the confirmee, it
must have the effect of passing the title of the United States, so that
no subsequent grant or confirmation can give a legal title to the subsequent grantee.
If this conclusion be correct, the next question for consideration is,
wlether the confirmation of the common of the town of St. Charles,
by the act of 18.12, passed the title to the land in controversy? On
this question, the counsel for the plain.iff have argued, that the title,
or claim, of the town to this land was not such a title as Congre'.
could have intended to confirm by the act of 1812.
As the attempt is made, in this case, to escape from the obvious
meaning of the act, by a critical examination of its language, it is
properr to consider'its terms with some care. The confirning section
enacts, "That the rights, titles, and claims to .town or village lots,
out-lots, common field lots, and commons, in5 adjoining, and belonging to the several towns or villages of Portage de Sioux, St. Charles,
St. Louis, &c., which lots have been inhabited, cultivated, or possessed Frior to the 20th day of December, 1803, shall be, and the
same are Jiereby confirmed to the inhabitants of the respective towns
or villages aforesaid, according to their several right or rights in
common thereto.'
(The counsel th~n refeired, for the history of the act, to Am. St.
Papers, Public Lands, pp. 377, 549, and to the communication of
Mr. Penrose to Mr. Gallatin; also that of Mr. Riddick to the chairman of the Committee on Public Lands; and then entered into a
comparison of the titles of the plaintiff and defendant respectively.)
I proceed now, to exaniine the plaintiff's claim, as it has been
acted upon by the legislation of the United States.
In the remarks that have been made upon the confirmation of the
plaintiff's title by the act of 4th July, 1836, it has been considered
as if it were a general confirmation, without any restriction, and it
has been attempted to be shown, and it is believed successfully, that

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

367

Chouteau v. Eckhart.

even regarded in that light, it cannot prevail in this action over the
confirmatioff of the commons. But I will proceed to show, from-the
laws of the United States, that tlis claim of the plaintiff has at one
period been extinguished, as having any colour of title to the land,
and that the subsequent act of confirmation, which was amere gratuity,'
was not intended by the government to interfere with the titles which
it bad previously granted or recognised.
From the time the United States took possession of Louisiana- theie'
has always been manifested a strong desire to adjust -the claims of
indi*iduals to any land in the territory; -with,great promptitude, and
upon the.fairest trinciples. Tribunals have, from time to time, been
established, to investigate the claims, with power, in some instances,
to decide on the merits of the claims upon the most enlarged principles of equity, and in other instances, with authority to report their
opinions to Congress for its final action. The desire to have all the
claims promptly settled, isshown in the provisions of the various
laws imposing penalties on those who should fail to exhibit their
claims for investigation within the times prescribed.. The following
is a brief statement of these enactments:The proviso to the 4th section .Qf the act of 2d March, 1805,
(2 Story's Laws United States, 967,) declares, "that any incomplete
grant, warrant, or order of survey, deed of conveyance, or other
written evidence, which shall not be recorded as -above directed,
shall never after beconsidered, oradmitted as evidence in any court of
the United States, against any grant derived from the United States."
The 5th section of the act of 3d March, 1807, (2 Story's Laws
United States, 1060,) contains a similar provision.
The '7th section of.the act of 13th June, 1812, extends the time
for filing. notices by actual settlers on the land claimed, under a
similar penalty. 2 Story, 1260.
The 1st section of the act of 3d.March, 1813, authorizes those
who have filed notices to file the evidences bf title, under the same.
penalty.
These earlier acts are referred to, not as having any direct operation on the plaintiff's claim,,but to showthe uniformity of the legislation in kelation to these claims, and to show that the provisions of
subsequent acts, which do affect the plaintiff's claim, aie not new
or extraordinary provisions.
The act of 26thMay, 1824, (3 Story, 1959,) which created a special
jurisdiction in the courts of the United States, was designed to bring

368

SUPREME COURT.
Choutean v. Eckhart.

these claims to a final close. The 5th section of that act provides,
that a claim not brought before the District Court in two years, or
not prosecuted to final judgment in three years, shall be for ever barred,
both at law and in equity. The 'th section provides, that where a
claim isbarred, by being decreed aggainst, " or by any of the provisions of the act, the lands shall forthwith be held and taken as a part
of the public lands of the United States, subject to the same disposition as any other public lands."
This act was continued in force by the act of the 26th May, 1826,
for two years, and by the act of 24th May, 1828, it was continued in
force, for the purpose of filing petitions, until the 26th day of May,
1829, and for the purpose of adjudicating upon the claims, until the
26th day of May, 1830.
The record in. this case shows no presentation of this claim to the
District Court; and for the purpose of the question now under consideration, it is to be assumed, that it was not presented, or if presented, was decided against; the effect being the same in either case.
It is certain, that it has not been confirmed by the courts, as the only
confirmation relied on by the plaintiff is that of 1836.
Now, the right of the government to require a diligent prosecfition
of these claims, and to impose penalties upon the claimants for their
negligence, is not to be questioned. This court, in speaking of
these provisions of law, in Strother v. Lucas, 12 Peter, 448,. says:
"c These are laws analogous to acts of limitation, for recording deeds
or givirig effect to. the awards of commissioners for settling claims to
lands under the laws of the states; the time and manner of iheir
operations, and the exceptions to them, depend on the sound discretion of the legislature, according to the nature of the titles, the situation of the country, and the emergency which calls for their enactment.
Reasons of sound policy have led to the general adoption of laws of
both descriptions, and their validity cannot be questioned- Cases
may occur where the provisions of a law-may be such as to call for
the interposition of the courts; but these under consideration do not."
In this case, then, the fifth and seventh sections of the act of 1824
had full operation on this claim of the plaintiff, at least from the 26th
May, 1830, until the passage of the act establishing the last board,
on the 9th July, 1832, and during that period the claim was barred,
both at law and in equity; and the land, as far as this claim was concerned, was puiblic land. During that period, while the claim of the
plaintiff was thus, by his own neglect, extinguished, the land was

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

369

Chouteau v. Eckhart.

held by the town of St. Charles, as confirmed to its inhabitants by an
act of Congress, with no shadow upon its title : and it is now submitted to the court, that no subsequent action of the government
could operate to affect the title, thus complete and unclouded, in the
town of St. Charles.
If it be said, as it has often been said, that the government can
waive any such forfeiture, I am free to admit that the United States
are competent to waive any advantage which they might claim under
such enactments, but I deny, that the- claimant, having neglected to
comply with the terms ot d law, and being thus barred, cc at law and
in equity," 'can, as against an individual citizen, be restored to any
right of action by any act of the United States.
- At this point, I will call the attention of the court to another act
of Congress, which seems designed to cut off all questions between
titles of the description of those now before the court.
It has been before observed, that the last day allowed for presenting petitions to the District Court was the 26th May, 1829, and a
year was allowed for prosecuting them to final decision. If there
was a failure to pursue the action thus offered to the claimant, the
5th and 7th sections of the act of 1824 barred the claim. Now,
between the expiration of the time thus given for presenting the claim,
and the passage of the act of 9th July, 1832, establishing the last
board of commissioners, the Congress of the United States, on the
27th January, 1831, passed an act, by w.hich the United States relinquished to the inhabitants of St. Charles all the right, title, and
interest of the United States in and to the lots and commons. 4 Story,
2220.
If it should be supposed, that after the act of 13th June, 1812, the
technical fee still remained in the United States, here is an act of
C6ngress equally efficacious with a patent, to transfer that fee, and
this act is passed when the claim of the plaintiff was barred, both at
law and in equity, by his own negligence.
There is still another feature in the plaintiff's confirmation which
requires notice, although, for the purposes of this defence, I think
enough has been already said.
It will be seen, by reference to the various acts of Congre~s in relation to these claims, that while the government was disposed to treat
the claimants with the utmost liberality, it was regarded as a duty
which the government owed to*those who held adverse titles to the
land, that they should be protected from any disturbance which might
VOL. I.-47

370

S.UPREME COURT.
Ch-outeau v. Eckhart.

be attempted under these later confirmations. The eleventh.section
of the act of 26th May, 1824, (3 Story, 196.3,) provides, ccthat if, in
any case, it should so happen, that the lands, tenements, or hereditaments decreed to any claimant, urnder the provisions of this act, shall
have been sold by the United States, or otherwise disposed of, in
each .and every such, case it shall and may be lawful for the party
interested to enter the like quantity of-land," &c.
The last clause of the second section of the act of 24th May, 1828,
which c6ntinues the act of 26th May, 1824, in force, provides, ccthat
the confirmations had by virtue of said act, and the patents issued
thereon, shall operate only as relinquishment of the title on the part
of the United States, and shall in nowise affect the right or title,
either in law or in equity, of adverse claimants of the same land."
These provisions, intended to apply to confirmations which should
be made by the decrees of the highest tribunal in the land, show the
fixed determination of the government to protect the rights of those
holding the land under any title adverse to the confirmation".
In the same spirit, and with the same purpose, a like provision
was inserted in the 2d section of the act of 4th July, 1836, under
which the plaintiff claims. That section enacts, "that if it shall be
found that any tract or tracts, confirmed as "aforesaid, or any part
thereof, had-been previously located by any other person or persons,
under any law of- the United States, or had been surveyed and sold
by the United States, this act shall confer no title to such lands, in
opposition to the right acquired by such location or purchase, but the
-individual or individuals, whose claims are hereby confirmed, shall
be permitted to locate so much thereof as interferes with such location or purchase, on any unappropriated larrtd," &c.
Although the most obvious application of the words, cc previously
located under any law of the United States," is, to the class of titles
in Missouri which originated in the act fbr the relief of.the inhabitants of New Madrid who suffered by the earthquake, and who were
authorized to locate other lands in lieu of those- injured; still it is
plain, that all titles which had received the sanction of government
were equally deserving of protection against disturbance from these
confirmations. The language used in the 11th section of the act of
1824, " sold or otherwise disposed of," would have embraced every
description of title conferred by the government, by which the land
was disposed of, and would have protected the town of St. Charles
against the plaintiff's claim, if it had been presented to the court

JANUARY TERM,; 1844.

371

Choutean v. Eckhart.

under that act, and had been confirmed. The spirit of the legislation is to secure these- prior titles; and unless there is some absolute
necessity to construe the 2d section of the act of 1836 with the
greatest strictness, and tQ exclude from its protection all titles which
can by such construction be excluded, it is believed that the title of
the town of St. Charles may receive the benefit of this'section, as a
complete defence igainst the plaintiff.
If, then, the commons of the town can with any propriety be said
to ",have been previously located, under any law of the United
States," the act of 1836 confers no title against the claim of the town.
On this question it is hot thought necessary to-remark, as it is to be
determined -by an examination of the section referred to. The effect
of the section is, to leave the claim of the plaintiff unconfirmed, so
far as it'interferes with the titles designed to be protected.
If I have conveyed my ideas intelligibly, I think I have maintained
the following propositions:
1. That between two confirraations'by different acts of Congress,
where no other 'evidence of title is contemplated by the confirming
acts,.the elder confirmation passes the legal title.
2. That the confirmation of the commons of St. Charles, by the
act of 13th Jpne- 1812, is a confirmation of the claim, as it was spread
on the records of the government.
3. That the claim, as evidenced by the survey and by actual pos-session, was adverse to the claim of the plaintiff,
4. That if the confirmations were to have effect, with relation to
the merits of the orignal Spanish titles, then the title'of the town of
St. Charles, to'the land in 4tuestion, as part of the common, is an
older and better title than that of the plaintiff.
5. That the claim of the plaintiff to-the land in question was extinguisl;ed. by his neglect -to' present and prosecute it, under the act
of 26th MVay, 1824, as that'Ect was continued in force by the,acts of
1826 and 1828.
6. That if the fee did not pass. by-the confirmation, it did pass-by
the.act of 27th January, 1831.
7. That the confirmatior of the plaintiff's claim by the act of the
4th July, 1836, did not operate to confer any title; as against the title
of the town.
These points present, as it is believed, several distinct and complete defences-to this action
-

372

SUPREME COURT.
Chouteau v. Eckhart.

Mr. Justice CATRON delivered the opinion of the court.
For the statement of the facts the report is referred to.
It is insisted this court has no jurisdiction to look into the plaintiff's concession of 1800; or to pass on it, under the 25th section of
the Judiciary act-and the case in 9 Peters, 244, of New Orleans v.
De Armis, is referred to as settling the question. If the plaintiff relied
alone on a complete Spanish title, then the argument would be sound,
but each party claims by force of an act of Congress; the plaintiff under -thatof 1836, and the defendant under the Act of 1812, confirming
to the inhabitants of St. Charles the village commons; and which is
fortified by another act. for the same purpose, of 1831. The decision
of the Supreme Court of Missouri was opposed to the title set up
under the act of 1836 by the plaintiff From this decision he prosecuted a writ of error to this court.
Construction is called for on the acts on which both
titles are
founded; and as no occasion can arise in any instance involving
construction, aside from a contest, making a case; the facts giving
rise to it must be ascertained before the construction can be applied.
To hold otherwise, would render the 25th section a dead letter in a
majority of instances. The same question arose in the case of.Pollard's heirs v. Kibbie, 14 Peters, 254, and again in that of The City
of Mobile v. Eslava, 16 Peters, 234, both involiing property at the
city of Mobile; the first is not distinguishable from the present in its
material features, so far as th question of jurisdiction is involved;
and the latter cbvers the whole ground before us. In the cases cited,
as in this, the record set out the titles on each side, together with
the facts and charge of the court; from which it appeared the decision of the Supreme Cburt of Alabama was opposed to the plaintiff's
title; the judgment below having been affirmed. This court did not
then doubt its powers to look behind the act of Congress, into the
Spanish concession of Pollard, for the purposes of construing the act,
and comparing it with that under which the defendant claimed: not
with the intention of setting up the concession as an antecedent title
to the act, that would support an action, but for the purposes of the
construction and applica'ion of the acts on which the controversy
depends. And the same rules apply here.
The plaintiff's title is primafacie a good legal title, and will support an ejectment on the act of 1836, standing alone, if the land can
be identified, as confirmed, without resort to the patent. This court
held, in Strother v. Lucas, 12 Peters, 454: "cThat a grant may be

JA'NUARY TERM, 1844.

373

Chouteau v. Eckhart.

made by a law as well as a patent pursuant to a law, is undoubted,
and a confirmation by a law is as fully, to all intents and purposes, a
grant, as if it contained, in terms, a grant de noro." And as, according to the laws of Missouri, an action of ejectment could be proseeuted on Chouteau's title, by force of the confirmatidn, the construction
of the acts of Congress, under which the respective parties claim,
will decide the controversy.
The character and- naturd of the village right, in this country, is
somewhat peculiar. The inhabitants of Upper Louisiana resided in
villages, almost exclusively, and cultivated common fields, enclosed
by only one fence; each person who cultivated the soil having
assigned to him, by the syndic-of the town, a certain portion of land
to' cultivate. In this manner the chief tillage of the soil was carried
on; the other parts of the couintry being in the forest state.
The villages also required commons for pasturage for their homed
cattle and 'horses; and for Afuel and timber; this part not being
enclosed. The quantity included in the. field, for pasturage, timber
and-wood, was regulated by the nature of the-soil and timber, and
accommodated to the wants of the inhabitants; and conceded at the
discretion of the government; usually to very liberal extent.
As the principal support of the population was derived from agri.
culture and pasturage, the Village commons were deemed of primary
importance by the people and goyernment, and, as a common title
more fav ured than individual titles in cases of conflict.
In this situation the United States found the country when they
came into possession of it, in March, 1804, as the successor of
France; or rather Spain, in virtue of the treaty of cession. So great
has been the change by the introduction of a population with different habits, and modes of agriculture, that it is difficult to estimate at
this day the former importance of the village common to the French
inhabitants: It was the basis on which their society -was formed to
so material an extent, that the early acts of Congress could not be
well understood, without a reference to this important circumstance;
and especially not the sweeping act of 1812.
The lieutenant-goveror of Upper Louisiana, (usually the military
commandant,) made concessions for ,lands founded on such considerations as to him seemed just, and according to the policy of the
province; ordered it to be surveyed by the public surveyor, who
put the interested party into possession, pursuant to the lieutenantgovernor's order, and delivered a plat of the. survey to the party, in

874

SUPREME COURT.
Choutean v. Eckhart

order that -he might obtain a title in form from the general intendency
at New Orleans ; to which tribunal alone appertained, by royal order,
the distributing and granting all classes of lands of the royal domain.
The intendent-geneml had the power to adjudge on the equity of the
claim, and to exercise the sovereign authority, by making the grant,
as the king's deputy.
After the country changed owners, this government had imposed
on it, as the successor of Spain, the duties previously performed by
the general intendency, of perfecting titles to concessions made by
the lieutenant-governors of St. Louis, Illinois.
Shortly after the United States came into possession, a tribunal
was instituted consisting of a board of conimissioners to investigate
claims of this description according to thelaws and usages of Spain,
as they existed among the French population in Upper Louisiana,
and to report to Congress, such as were by the tribunal deemed wellfounded, just, and equitable, and that ought to have been confirmed
by the general intendency, had no change of government taken place;
and such as ought not to have been confirmed: On these reports
coming before Congress, it acted directly by statute, on such titles as
were by the legislature considered well4ounded and just claims. In
all such instances it-acted as the successor of the general intendency,
and had the same discretion to confirm; -and the sovereign power to
perfect the incipient right; or to reject it, that the intendent-general
had: Each exercising sovereign tower, in regard to the claim, with
full authority to award, or to refuse, a perfect title,
As the board of commissioners had no capacity to grant, but only
to ascertain facts, and report their opinions; and their powers to
examine, not extending to every description of claim, Congress acted
in some instances independent of any recommendation: necessarily
in cases where the board had no right to interfere.
Chouteau's claim-had been presented to the board early in 1809:
In July, 1810, the board declared the opinion that this claim ought
not to be confirmed; and no action was had on it by Congress on
the return of the report of 1810.
In 1812, Cdngress confirmed the village claims as follows:
"That the rights, titles, and claims to town or village.lots, outlots, common field lots and commons, in, adjoining, and belonging"
to the several -towns-or villages of Portage de Sioux, St. Charles, St.
Louis, &c., which lots have been inhabited, cultivated, or possessed
prior to the'20th day of December, 1803, shall be, and the same are

JANUARY

TERM, 1844.

376

Chouteau v. Eckhart

hereby confirmed to the inhabitants of the respective towns or villages aforesaid, according to their several rights or right in common
thereto."
A new board was organized according -t6 an act of 1832, with
powers to re-examine the claims (with others) deemed unworthy of
confirmation by the former board. The new board was of a diflerent
opinion from the former in'.regard t' Chouteau's claim, and in November, 1833, recommended it for confirmation, according to his
concission: and it was confirmed by the-act of.the 4th of July, 1836;
'corresponding to a recent survey, made in conformity to the concession. The whole of the claim is included in the village common of
St. Charles, as it existed.on the 20th day of- December, 1803 ; and
under which the defendantprote.cted his possession, as. an outstand.
ing title. The State Circuit Court in Missouri held the village right
the better, and so charged the jury-; which opinion was sustained in
the Supreme Court of that state, on their former decisions: especially
in the cases of Byrd v.Montgomery, 6 Mo. Rep. 514, and Mackay
v. Dillon, '7 Mo. Rep. 10. The last involved a .contest in which
title was claimed by one party under the, St. Louis common.
'These cases maintain in substance, that such inchoate 'claims (as
that of Chouteau was in 1812, when the community of St.- Charles
took its title, previously also inchoate) were not changed in their
character, by the treaty by which Louisiana was acquired 'that the
treaty imposed on this government only a political obligation to perfect them': that this obligation, sacred as it may be, in afiy instance,.'
cannot be- enforced by any action of the judicial tribunal§: and that
the legislation of Congress from 1804, to the preserit time, has proceeded upon this construction of -the treaty, ds is manifested Jby.the
modes adopted'to investigate the claims through: boards of ecmmissidners, and then acting on them by legislation. .This court held
likewise, in the United States v. Wiggins, 14 Peters, 350.
We think- this reasoning cofrect, and necessarily following the
nature of the claim as above set -forth; -itnot having been perfected
b.y the general intendency before the change of governments.
2. That court in substance also held, in the cases cited; that the
federal gdverment, being unable to confirm the same land to two
adverse claimant , must then, to some extent, determine. betwee i
the conflictilbg titles. Each claimant depends upon the justice or
comity of the present government; and when the government exer-

376

SUPREME COURT.
Catts

v. Phalen et al.

cises its powers and confirms the land to one, it must necessarily be
considered in a court of law the paramount and better title.
We think this position also sound, and that it is conclusive against
the validity of the plaintiff's title; and therefore order the judgment
of the Supreme Court of Missouri to be affirmed.
ORDER.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Supreme Court of'the state of Missouri, and was argued
by counsel. On consideration whereof, It is now here ordered and
adjudged by this pourt, that the judgment of the said Supreme Court
of the state of Missouri, in this cause be, and the same is hereby
affirmed with costs.

JOHN CkTTs, PLAINTIFF IN EIRROR, V. JArs PHALEN; AND FRAcIs
MoRRs, DEFENDANTS IN ERROR.
A person who receives the prize money, in a loitery, for a ticket which he had
caused to be fraudulently drawn as a prize, is liable to the lottery contractors
* in. an action for money had and received for heir use. So far as he is concerned, the law annuls the pretended drawing of the prize; and he is in the
same situation as if he had received the money of the contractors by means
of any other false pretence.

Tins case was brought .up by writ of error, from the Circuit
Court of the United Stjes, for the District of Columbia and county
of Alexandria.
The facts were these:
The state of Virginia, in and prior to the year 1834, passed several acts authorizing a lottery to be drawn for the .improvement of the
Fauquier and Alexandria turnpike road.
In 1839, certain persons, acting as commissioners,,made a contract
'.ith James Phalen and Francis Moriis, of the city of New York, by
which Phalen and Morris were authorized, upon the terms therein
mentioned, to draw these lotteries. They proceeded to do so, and
employed Carts to draw the tickets from the wheel. The following
extract from the bil of exceptions sets forth the other' facts in
the case.

