SUPREME COURT.

426

Lawrence v. McCalmont et al.

from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District
of Pennsylvania, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, It. is now here ordered and decreed by this court, that the
decree of the said Circuit Court be, and the same is hereby reversed
with costs; and that this cause be, and the same is hereby remanded
to the said Circuit Court, with directions to that court to enter a
decree for the complainant, conformably to the opinion of this
court, and that the defendant pay thecosts in both courts.
ORDER.
Brown v. Randel.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Eastern District
of Pennsylvania, and was argued by counsel.
On consideration
whereof, It is nowhere ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this court,
that this appeal be, and the same is hereby dismissed with costs;
and that this cause be, and the same is hereby remanded to the said
Circuit Court with directions to that court to proceed therein conformably to the opinion of this court in.this case on the appeal of the
complainant.

SUSAN LAWRENCE, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, v. ROBERT McCA MONT, HGH
MCCALMIONT, AND WILLIAMI JOHNSON NEWELL, DEFENDANTS.
The following guarantee, viz.:
"In consideration of Messrs. 3. and A. Lawrence having a credit with your
house, and in further consideration of $1 paid me by yourselves, receipt of
which I hereby acknowledge, I engage to you that they shall fulfil the engagements they have made and shall make with yon, for meeting and reimbursing
the payments which you may 'assume under such credit at their request,
together with your charges; and I guaranty you from all payments and
damages by reason of their default.
"You are to consider this'as a standing and continuing guarantee, without the
necessity of your apprizing me, from time to time, of your engagements-and
advances for their house; alid in case of a change of partners in your firm
or theirs, the guarantee is to apply and continue to transactions afterwards,
between the firms as changed, until notified by me to the contrary."
Is a continuing .guarantee, and includes not only transactions under a letter of
credit existing at the date of the guarantee, but also transactions which arose
under a second letter granted at the expiration of the first; although the
-econd credit contained a proviso "that the bills be drawn by, or in favour

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

427

Lawrence v. McCalmont et al.
of parties permanently resident in Europe; and if made from the continent,
they be made at the customary date, say three months."
The principles laid down in the case of Bell v.Bruen, 1 Howard, 169, 186,
which should govern the construction of commercial guarantees, reviewed
and confirmed.
A valuable consideration, however small or nominal, if given or tpulated for
in good faith, is, in the absence of fraud, sufficient to support an action on,
-any parol contract, and this is equally true as .to contracts of guarantee as to
others.
The consideration in this case was not past.
The question, whether or not the guarantor had sufficient notice of the failure
of the principals to pay the debt was a question of fact for'the jury.
Where notes are deposited for collection by way of collateral security for an
existing debt, the case dnes not fall within the strict rules of commercial law,
applicable to negotiable pape
It falls under -the general law of agency;
and the agents are only bound to use due diligence to collect the debts.

Tins case was brought up by writ of error, from the Circuit Court
of the United States for the southern district of New'York.
The facts were these:
Robert McCalmont and the other defendants in error, were copartners in trade, in London, trading under the name of McCalmont,
Brothers and Company.
In the year 1838, J. and A. Lawrence were merchants who resided
at Brooklyn, near New York, in the same house with their mother,'
Susan Lawrence, the plaintiff in error. Their counting-house was
in the city. McCalmont, Brothers and Co. had agents, J. GihoP
and Co., also residing in New York.
On the 21st of November, 1888, J. and A. Lawrence obtained
from the agents at New York the following letter:
Juew York, 21st .N'ov., 1838.
Messrs. McCalmont, Brothers and Co., London:
Gent. :-We have granted to Messrs. J. and A. Lawrence of this
city, a credit with you of £10,000, say ten thousand pounds sterling,
to be availed of within six months from this time, in such drafts as
they may direct, at four months' date, against actual shipments of
goods for their account, and coming to their address; said goods fo
be forwarded through- you or your agents.
The above credit is granted under their engagement to cover -your
acceptances before maturity, by direct remittances from this country
of approved sixty day bills- seconds of exchange to be handed to
us for traxismission to you. You are to charge one per cent. com-

428

SUPREME COURT.
Lawrence v. McCalmont et aL

mission on the amount accepted, and to keep the account at five per
We are, gents., your ob. st.,
cent. interest per annum.
Jon- GmoN and Co.
In the course of the trial, William Davidson being under examination, the plaintiff's counsel asked the witness whether the letter of
credit, of 21st November, 1838, was delivered on an agreement for
the guarantee. To this evidence the defendant's counsel objected, as
irrelevant and inadmissible. The judge decided that it was admissible for the purpose of showing the nature and character of the plaintiff's claim on J. and A. Lawrence, but not to vary the construction
of the guarantee, and admitted the evidence; to which the defendant's
counsel excepted.
The witness then testified that the said letter of 21st November,
1838, was delivered on Mr. Lawrence's proposal of his mother's
security for the credit, which will be presently'mentioned.
On the 22d of Novehber, 1838, this letter was transmitted to
England with the following endorsement:
.New York, .Xov. 22, 1838.
Messrs, McCalmont, Bros. and Co.
Gent. :-You will please accept our, Mr. A. T. Lawrence's, dfts.
for amount of within credit, in such amounts, and at such times, as
J. and A. LAWivENCE.
he may draw.
Your ob. st.,
On the 10th of December, 1838, Mr. A. T. Lawrence, being then
in England, received the above letter, and forwarded it to London,
accompanied by the following letter from himselfJottingham, Dec'r 10th, 1838.
Messrs. McCalmont, Bros. and Co., London:
Gent. :-I now hand you enclosed, Messrs. J. Gihon and Co.'s
letter of credit on you, in favour of my house, J. and A. Lawrence,
endorsed over to me for £10,000 sterling, and will you please write
me, giving authority to draw for the amount? I observe that one of
the conditions of the credit is, that goods to the amount of the same
shall be shipped through your agents. Will you please inform me
the names of the houses in Liverpool and London, through whom you
would wish the shipments made? Please address me at this place..
A. T. LAwRF cE.
Respectfully, your obt. servts.,
On the 11th of December, 1838, Mc~almont, Brothers and Co.,
acknowledged the receipt of the above letter as follows:

JANUARY

TERM, 1844.

429

Lawrence v. McCalmont et al.

-

Lond, llth Dec. 1838.
A. T. Lawrence, Esq., Nottingham:
Sir :-We have to acknowledge receipt of yours of yesterday's
date, covering the letter of credit in your house's favour, opened by
our mutual friends, Messrs. John Gihon and Co., say to the extent
of ten thousand pounds sterling, to be availed of by drafts on us at
four months against actual shipments of goods for their account, and
going to their address; said, goods, if shipped from Liveipool, to be
forwarded'through our agent.there, Nathan Caims, Esq., India Buildings, or from hence through us, or such shipping agent as you may
appoint; but in that case, a copy of the bill.of lading to be lodged
with us prior to presentation of your drafts, and such drafts to appear
within thirty days from date bf shipment. This credit to be availed
of within six months from the 21st ulto., and your house-undertaking
to comply with the other stipulations stated in it by Messrs. J. Gihon
and Co., viz.: that they engage to cover, our acceptances before
maturity, by direct remittances from United States by approved: bills
of sixty d ys, the seconds to be forwarded to us through ouragents,
Messrs. John Gihon and Co., your house to pay. us one per cent.
commission on -the amount of our acceptances and disbursements;
the account to be kept at five per cent. interest per annumn whichcredit we hereby confirm to you, trusting'that in opening an account
with your respectable firm it *ill lead to a mutually agreeable and
profitable correspondence.
We remain, sir, your most obedt. servt.,
McCA r oNT, Bos. and Co.
It is to be understood that the above credit is 6 e only one you
have in Europe.
McC., BRos. and Co.
On- the 17th of December, 1838, Susan Lawrence, the plaintiff in
error, wrote the following letter: .
Messrs. McCalmont, Brothers and Co., London:
Gent. :-Ia consideration -of Messrs. J. and A. Lawrence having
a credit with your house, and in further consideration of one dollar
paid me by yourselves, receipt of which 'I hereby acknowledge,1
engage to you that they shall fulfil the engagements they have mnade
and shall make with you, for meeting and reimbursing-the payments
w1hich you may assume under such credit-at their request; together
with your charges, and I guaranty you 'from all payments and
damages by reason of their default.

SUPREME COURT.
Lawrence v. MAeCalmont et-al.

You are to consider this a standing and continuing guarantee without the. necessity of your apprizing me, from time to time, of your
engagements and advances for their house; and in case of a change
of partners in your firm or theirs, the guarantee is to apply and continue to transactions afterwards -between the firins as changed, until
notified by-me to the contrary.
Yours, respectfully, ,
I
S s& L'wIEcE.
Under these documents, advances were made and settled; and for
-the transactions within the six months, from November 21, 1838,
nothing vas claimed.
At the'expiration of the six months the credit was renewed by the
following letter:
NAew York, June 12th, 1839.
.Messrs. McCalmont, Brothers and Co., London:
Gent. :-With reference to our letter of 21st November last, opening a credit on your good selves, favour Messrs. I. and A. Lawrence
for X10,000, to be drawn within six months from that date, and
which expired by limitation last month. We herebyrenew the same
for a like period from the date hereof, and under the -same stipulations, with this proviso, that the bills be drawn by, or in favour of
parties permanently resident in Europe; and if made from the continent, they be made at the customary date, say three months.
Jorn Ginor and Co.
We remain, &c.,
In tiae course of the trial William Davidson, again called by the
plaintiff's counsel, was asked, whether at the time of the renewal of
the credit -in June, 1839, a conversation took place with Mr. Lawrence respecting the application of the guarantee to it; to-which the
defendant's counsel objected; but the judge admitted the same, to
show the nature and character of the plaintiff's claim on J. and A.
Lawrence, but not to aflect the construction of the guarantee; to which
the defendant's counsel excepted. The witness then testified that
Mr. Lawrence, on that occasion, called on him, and asked if it was
agreeable for witness' firm to continue the credit for £10,000. Witness replied, that he had no objection to continue it onthe same
terms - before; stating that it was to be on his mother's guarantee
attached to the previous credit; he answered that he did not expect
it on any other terms, or without the guarantee. Witness was in a
hui6, 'and said that he should refer to it, to find out whether the
guarantee was- for a particular credit, or was a continuing guarantee.

JANUARY

TERM, 1844.

481

La-wrence v. McCalmont et al.

Witness afterwards referred to the letter of guarantee, and subsequently
drew up the letter continuing the credit, and delivered it to Mr. J. D.
Lawrence, and exhibited to him his mother's letter; he read it
The plaintiffs' counsel then, offered to prove, that both the house
of J. Gihon and Co., and J. and .A. Lawrence acted upon the guarantee as a -continuing guarantee. To this, the defendant's counsel
objected; but the judge admitted the evidence, for the purpose of
showing that both acted upon it as a continuing guarantee, but not to
vary the construction of the guarantee itself; to which the defendant's
counsel excepted. The witness then testified, that Mr. Lawrence.
and he both agreed that it was a continuing guarantee, and as such
no new letter was needed.
Witness testified that their house received sundry bills, receivable,
understood and represented to be business paper, not at maturity
when received, to be collected and realized, as far as they could do
it, and the proceeds to be remitted to the plaintiffs for the credit. It
was a distinct understanding between witness' firm and J. and A.
Lawrence, that they received this paper subject to its encashment, on
being paid at maturity. Witness has had a statement made of the
proceeds of the paper thus deposited. Witness' firm h4d realized
from it, and remitted £1309, 16s. 6d. The amount due on the plain-tiffs' said account -with J. and A. Lawrence, crediting those remittances, and charging interest to the third day of May, instant, is
£9712, 11s. 4d.-amounting in.dollars, at $4 85 to the pound sterling, to $47,105 95.
On the 28th June, 1839, this letter was received by Mr. A. T.
Lawrence, being still in England, and forwarded with the following
letter from himself.
N'oltingzham, June 28, 1839..
Messrs. McCalmont, Bros. and Co.
Dear Sirs:-By the steamer " Great Western," I have received a
letter of credit for £10,000, granted to our house by your friends
Messrs. J. Gihon and Co., on your house, which I now hand you
enclosed. £5000 of the same I wish you to hold subject to the
drafts of Messrs. Jones, Gibson and Ord, of Manchester, drawn :at
such times and for such amounts as they may deem proper. The
balance you will hold subject to my draft, or the drafts of such parties"
as I may advise at the time of their drawing.
I am, gent., your ob1t. serv't.
A. T. ULUWENCE.
It is understood, of course, in case of your confirming the above

SUPREME COURT.
Lawrence v. McCalmont et aL

named credit, that the remittances to meet the drafts drawn against it,
shall be in such bills as are approved of by your friends in New
York.
On the 5th of July, 1839, the receipt of the above was acknowledged by the following letter addressed to the house in New York.
London, 5th July, 1839.
Messrs. J. and A. Lawrence, New York:
Gent..-Your favours of 6th and 24th May, were duly received
with their enclosed remittances, which you will find at your credit m.
the annexed statement of your account current to 30th ulto.
This accoupt we hope you will find correct, and the bills about
coming due will, we doubt not, have your usual attention.
The further credit for .X10,000on your account opened by Messrs.
J. Gihon and Co., we have confirmed to your Mr. A. Lawrence, on
the understanding that it is to be met by remittances from New York,
satisfactory to J. Gihon and Co.
We are gent., your most obd't, serv't.,
McCAr&roNT, Buos. and Co.
Upon this credit J. and A. Lawrence drew several drafts in the
months of July and August, 1839.
On the 31st of October, 1839, J. and A. Lawrence addressed the
following letter to the London bankers:
Vew York, 31st Oct.,, 1839.
Messrs. McCalmont, Bros. and Co., London:
Gent. :-We -were in hopes that we should have been enabled, ere
this, to have made yon a remittance to meet your acqeptances for our
account, due 13th and 19th Nov., but such is the state of our money
market, that it is almost impossible to get money at any rate., The
best of our commercial paper is offered freely at three and four per cent.
per month disrount; and owing to the deranged state of our internal
exchanges, it is impossible to collect amounts due us in other cities,
except at a ruinous rate. Exchange on Philadelphia, 6nly 96 miles
from thisis 15 per cent. discount to-day. Under all these circumstances, we have to beg a little indulgence on your part. * We shall
remit you the moment it is in our power. We have offered your
friends, Messrs. John Gihon and Co., to place our business paper in
their-hands in settlement, but they have declined atpresent. Browns
and other bankers are settling in this way..
3. and A. LAwpxNcE.
We are gent'n, resp'y, &c.

JANUARY TERM, 1844.
Lawrence

v. MeCalmont et al.

On the 24th of January, 1840, McCalmont, Brothers and Co.
transmitted their account current to the Messrs. Lawrence, the receipt
of which was acknowledged in the following letter:
JNew York, .May 30, 1840.
Messrs. McCalmont, Bros. and Co., London:
Gent. :-Your favour of 24th January came duly to hand, enclosing
your account current with us to 31st December last, showing balance
due you on that day of £10,349 8s. 5d.-say ten thousand three
hundred and forty-nine pounds 8s. 5d. which vwe find correct. On 18th
March last, we made a payment on your account to Messrs. J. Gihon
and Co., of $11,822 26-say eleven thousand eight" hundred and
twenty-two 16 dollars, for which we have their acknowledgment
as your agents.
J. and A. LAWnAmFNCE.
Respectfully, your obd't. serv't.
On the 29th of May, 1840, John Gihon and Co. addressed the
following letter to Susan Lawrence:
JNew York, .May29th, 1840.
Mrs. Susan Lawrence:
Madam :-We enclose on behalf of Messrs. McCalmont, Bros. and
Co., a cupy of the account of Messrs. J. and A. Lawrence with them,
showing a balance due of £10,349 8s. 5d.-say ten thousand three
hundred and forty-nine pounds eight shillings and five pence sterling,
on first January last, with interest. -These gentlemen not having
fulfilled their engagements to reimburse this account, we claim payment of you under your guarantee to Messrs. McCalmont, Bros. and
J. GmoN and Co.,
Company.
Respectfully, yours,
Agents of McCalmont, Bros. and Co., of Londo"
In July, 1840, an action of trespass on the case. was brought i
the Circuit Court by McCalmont, Brothers dnd Co., against Su.-,
Lawrence upon the guarantee; who pleaded the general issue.
Evidence was given by the plaintiff, upon the trial, to sustain the
above facts. The defendant offered evidence that sundry notes were
deposited in the hands of John Gihon and Co., by J. and A. La*rence for collection, and that due notice of' their not being paid was
not given to them and to Stsan Lawrence.
The counsel for the defendant then asked the court to charge*the
jury upon the points of law arising in the-casQ, as follows, viz.:
1st. That the said credit of 21st November, 1838, is a standing
and continuing credit during the six.months.
20
Vo,. [.--55

424

SUPREME COURT.
Lawrence v. McCalmont et al.

2d. That defendant's guarahtee of 17th December, 1838, is confined to the said credit, both as to time and amoint.
3d. That the acceptances and claims of the plaintiffs demanded in
their declaration in this suit, are not covered by the guarantee of the
-defendant aforesaid.
4th. That the new credit aforesaid of the 12th of June, 1839, is
not a continuance or repetition of the first credit, but a departure
from it, and is not covered by or embraced in the defendant's said
guarantee.
5th. That the nominal consideration of one dollar, and the past
consideration stdted in defendant's said guarantee, are not, nor is
either of them, sufficient to sustain the said guarantee.
6th. That the evidence that the said J. and A. Lawrence agreed
to give a guarantee at the time said credit of 21st November, 1838,
was given, is not sufficient in law to render valid the consideration
expressed -in defendant's said guarantee, or to sustain the said
guarantee.
7th. The facts being ascertained, the question whether the notice
given to the defendant by the plaintiffs of the failure of the said J.
and A. Lawrence to remit to cover the plaintiffs' acceptances -was
reasonable, is a question of law, and no notice, sufficient in law, was
given of such failure to the defendant.
8th. If the sufficiency of such notice be a question exclusively of
fact, a reasonable and sufficient notice was not given to her of such
failure of J. and A. Lawrence to remit as aforesaid.
9th. The notes received by the plaintiffs, through their agents to
collect, ought, when there was a failure of payment, to have been:
regularly protested, and due notice thereof served on the defendant
and J. and A. Lawrence; and, on failure thereof, a credit should be
allowed for the same.
The judge thereupon charged the jury, that the plaintifif were not
precluded from recovering under the guarantee in evidence by reason
of-any supppsed vant of consideration therefor; and the same was
not without sufficient consideration.
That the said guarantee of the 17th December, 1838, was not
limited to the credit of November 21, 1838, but was a standing and
continuing guarantee, and did apply to, and was sufficient to embrace, transactions arising after the said credit of November, 18"8,
was expired.
That the new credit of June 12, 1839, and the advances and

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

435

Lawrence v. McCalmont et al.

transactions under it, were not in law without the scope of the guarantee of December 17, 1838; and that the plaintiffs were, under the
evidence, entitled to recover for the same under the said guarntee.
That the defendant was entitled to a reasonable notice of the
default of the principal debtors, to enable her to take measures for her
indemnity; that it was for the jury to consider, whether under all the
circumstances in evidence, the defendant had not had such notice.
That 'as to the notes turned over by the principal debtors to J.
Gihon and Co., as the same were merely lodged with the latter, on
their engagement that the proceeds of them, when received; were to
be passed to their credit, the want 'of protest of any such notes as
were dishonoured, or of notice thereof to the said J. and A. Lawrence would not entitle the defendant to charge the plaintiffs with the
amount of such notes, or to claim a deduction for that amount.
And with that charge left the said cause to the jury: unto which
charge, and to'the refusal of the judge to charge otherwise, and as
requested by defendant as aforesaid, the defendant's counsel then and
there excepted.
The jury found a verdict for the plaintiffs for $47,105 97.
The cause was argued by Mr. Wood, for the plaintiff in error,
(Susan Lawrence,) and was to have been. argued by Mr. Lord and
Vr. Sergeant, for the defendants iii, error; but after Mr. Lord. had
finished his argument, the court declined hearing further counsel on
that side. Mr. Wood replied; and his two arguments are consolidated.
Wood madelhe following points:
1. Supposing the defendants' guarantee might extend to a new continuing credit; it did not'cover the credit of June 12, 1839, there being
a variance from the first, in requiring a permanent resident in Europe,
to draw or endorse the bills t6 be a6cepted, and in requiring the bills,
if drawn from the continent, to be drawn at three months.
*2. These variances might have impaired the means of J.and A.
Lawrence to meet their payments, a,'d thus increased the risk of the
defendant.
3. But whether the vaiances were detrimental or not, they so"
changed the terms of the credit as to put it without the scope of the
guarantee, and to warrant the defendant in saying, c non hac in fodera'veni," and the charge was in this' particular erroneous.
4. The credit, or letter of ,eret of the 21st November, 1838, is

436

SUPREME COURT.
Lawrence v. McCalmont et al.

the exclusive subject-matter of the guarantee of the defendant below,
declared upor, and said guarantee does not extend to any future or
other credit. Because,
Ist. It recites such credit as the subject-matter to be covered by it.
2d. It guaranties the fulfilment by J. and A. Lawrence of their
agreements made and to be made for reimbursing the payments
assumed by the plaintiffs below, under that and no other credit.
3d. Said credit being a continuing credit for six months, and
extending to renewals within that period, the guarantee is satisfied,
as -a standing and continuing one, by confining it to that credit alone.
4th. The provision in the guarantee that it is to stand and continue
without notice of engagements and advances, and notwithstanding a
change of partners in the plaintiff's firm, was designed, not to extend
the guarantee beyond the first credit, but to modify it as a continuing
guarantee, by dispensing with some of the qualities of such a guarantee.
6th. This satisfies the language of the guarantee without extending
by a forced construction the credit beyond the original six months.
6th. The judge erred, therefore, in inferring and charging that said
guarantee was not confined to the first credit, because it was a standing and continuing guarantee.
5. There is no valid consideration to support this guarantee.
Because,
1st. By the law of New York the consideration must be substantial, and be set forth in the written instrument of guarantee.
2d. Of the considerations expressed in this instrument, one is
nominal and the other past, and without any previous request on the.
part of the defendant, either proved or set forth in the instrument.
3d. If the evidence to show the consideration nominal was not
conclusive, it should have been left to the jury to pass upon.
6. There was a total failure to prove a reasonable notice by the
plaintiffs to the defendant of the failure of J. and A. Lawrence to
remit, and the justice erred in leaving it to the jury to infer such
notice. Because,
1st. The reasonableness of the notice -when the facts are ascertained, is a question of law, and the court should have charged the
jury that the notice shown was, in point of law, unreasonable.
2d. Supposing it a question of fact, the verdict was, in this particular, without evidence to support it.
7. The justice erred in chargi.ng the jury that 3. and A. Law-

JANUARY

TERM, 1844.

437

Lawrence v. McCalmont et al.

rence were not entitled to notice of the dishonour of the notes, lodged
with the plaintiffs or their agents, and by them received for collection.
8. The judgment being erroneous in the above and other particulars ought iobe reversed.
Wood then stated that the first and main ground relied upon for
reversing the judgment below, was the variance between the first
and second credit, which took the second out of the scope of the
guarantee. This ground assumes that the first credit is confined to
one transaction of £10,000, and covers assumptions only to. that
amount.
This guarantee consists of two parts. The first part is clearly confined tb the first credit, and does not authorize any change in the
mode ofcredit. It recites that credit, and guaranties the reimbursement of the plaintiffs below under such credit, meaning that credit.
The second part of the guarantee provides that it shall be standing
and continuing. This of course, upon the above assumption, extendsit to future and.other credits. But the general rule is/,that where a
party guaranties a dealing and then provides for the guarantee to continue, it extends to other dealings only of the same kind and character.
Any variance is fatal. Russel v, Perkins, 1 Mason, 368; Ludlow
v. Simond, 2 Caines's Cases in Error, 1 ; Walsh v. Baillie, 10 Johns.
Rep. 189; 1 B. and P. 34; Hunt v. Smith, 17 Wend. 179.
The following cases are more particularly in point, as they show a
variance in paper and credit. Dobbins v.Bradley, 17 Wend. 422
Edmonston v. Drake, 5 Peters, 637, 639; Hoff v. Hadley, 5 Bing.
54; Campbell v. French, 6 Term Rep. 200; Barstow v. Bennet,
3 Campb. N. P. R. 221.
These cases fully show that the variance, even when supposed to
be beneficial, takes the case out of the guarantee.
The requirements in the second credit of a permanent drawer or
endorser in Europe was material. It subjected J. and A. Lawrence
to the necessity of giving a premium or reci!irocating the favour. If
the person of whom they bought should draw or endorse, he must
guaranty to the bank out of -hich the money should be raised the
solvency of the plaintiffs below.
The extension of the credit on bills from the continent to four
months instead of three, to which they were restricted in the second
credit, straitened their, operations. It is no answer, to say that no
such paper was made under the second credit. It was a part of that
2o2

438

SUPREME COURT.
Lawrence v. McCalmont et ILL

contract of credit and varied from the firt, and, as such, it took the
case out of the guarantee. This very variance may have caused
J. and A. Lawrence to withdraw their operations from the continent
and confined -them to England, and this may have caused their
failure.
But it is maintained that the peculiar language of this guarantee
takes it out of this general rule'and sanctions the variance.
In the first part of the guarantee; she stipulates that J. and A. Lawrence shall fulfil the agreements they have made and shall make, &c.
This is relied upon as sanctioning th" variance. Assuming that this
authorizes not only future but different agreements, it is manifest it
can have no such result. The agreements there spoken of,.are not
the assumptions of the plaintiffs below which are guarantied, but the
arrangements of J. and A. Lawrence for reimbursing the plaintiff}.
And this shows the whole fallacy of the argument. The credit ,f
21st November has two important objects. 1st. The acceptances,
assumptions, and advances on the part of the plaintiffi. 2d. The
arrangements on the part of J. and A. Lawrence for reimbursing
them on account of such advances. - The above clause in the guarantee refers to the latter and not the former. Of course it does- not
authorize a change in the former. Inthe next place, much reliance is placed on the qualifying language in the second part df the guarantee. Here itdispenses with a
notice to her from the plaintiffs below of their engagements and
advances to J. and A. Lawrence. 'Hence it is inferred that there
may be not only new but diferent engagements and advances by
these plaintiffs from those embraced in the first credit. But this conclusion is entirely too broad. The whole object of the provision is
not to vary the kind of engagements and advances, but to dispense
with notice. It has been a moot point whether there ought to be
notice to the guarantor of ne-0 transactions, though now settled otherwise in this court. The.character of the engagements and advances
isnot affected at au by this qualifying clause, but is left'subjected to
the general rule l31icabl~to a guarantee continuing.
Lastly, the clause authorizing a change in the firmg is relied upon.
It is difficult to conceive how this provision for'a change in Jhe firms
can authorize a change in the guarantee in other particulars. The
guarantee is to continue and apply to transactions between the firms
as changed. The words cc to continue and apply" would seem, to
convey the idea that the guarantee is to continue the cc same," except

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

439

Lawrence v. McCalmont et al.

so far as modified by applying it to the firms as changed. A vague
and loose construction of a guarantee under the pretence of liberalizing
it, can only serve to involve the whole subject in uncertainty. A
change in a firm, where the business and good-will continues, leaves
it substantially the same firm. The rule that a continuing guarantee
does not extend where there is a change in the firm, shows the
strength of the principle, which can be impaired only with the prospect of increasing litigation.
General words in an instrument, even wnere they purport to confer a power, are confined to the particular subject. Hogg v. Smith,
1 Taunt 347 ; 8 Wend. 494; 6 East, 507.
The second ground- relied on for reversal is, that the guarantee
extended only to the credit of the 21st of November, 1838. This
depends upon the previous question, whether that credit was continuing, or was confined to one transaction of £10,000. The following cases are relied upon to show that it was a continuing credit for
the period of six months, and if so, the language of the guarantee -is
fully satisfied by confining it to that one credit. There was ample
time to have repeated the transactions under that credit so as to cover
a second sum of £10,000. Mason v. Pritchard, 12 East, 227; Merle
v. Wells, 2 Campb. 413; Douglass v. Reynolds, 7 Peters, 113.
In the third place, it was contended that the consideration was
insufficient to support the guarantee. It was admitted that the court
would not. make. new bargains for the parties, however unequal the
contracts may be. Blit the rule requir;.ng a consideration to support
a parol contract means a substantial and not a nominal consideration.
Two shillings and six-pence may be a-consideration, provided it was
really intended as such; but if designed to be merely nominal, it
would not suffice. One dollar, according to a well-known usage, is
generally inserted for a nominal consideration, it being customary to
insert it in cases where a nominal consideration will suffice, and
therefore a party -is not estopped from showing it was nominal.,
There was evidence in the case to satisfy the jury that -the consideration was nominal, and it ought to have been left to the jury to pass
upon. The credit recited in the guarantee as a -consideration was
clearly meant to be the credit of the 21st of November, which was a
fixed credit for a definite period already established by contract, and
no other credit existed between the parties. It was therefore a part
consideration, and not sufficient to support the guarantee. Chitty's
Contracts, p. 12.

440"

SUPREME COURT.
Lawrence

v. McCalmont -et al.

The plaintiffs below failed to give to the defendants a reasonable
notice of the failure of J. and A. Lawrence to remit, which failure
occurred in October, 1839; notice was given on the 29th of May
following-she living within -a. few minutes' "walk of their agents,
through whom. the whole arrangements of the plaintiffs were effected.
'The reasonableness of the time when the facts are ascertained, as
in this case, is a question of law. There was nothing to be left to
the jury. The facts were clear, and the notice given was manifestly
unreasonable. The notes lodged with the plaintiff by 3. and A.
Lawrence as collateral security, when protested,.should have been
subjected to the like notice. The c strict" notice required to affect
an endorser was not necessary; but a reasonable notice ought to
have been given,. Philip v. Astling, 2 Taunt. 212.
There was nothing in the relationship between the defendant
below and J.and A. Lawrence that shbuld dispense with the ordinary requirements of the law in regard to guarintees. On the contrary, that relationship subjected her the more fully-o that species of
influence which is brought to bear upon those who ordinarily go
sirety for friends.
This court has heretofore been deeply impressed with this consideration. 5 Peters, 637; 9 Wheat. 680.
In 7 Cranch, 90, the court, wvith Chief Justice Marshall as their
organ, say: kIt is the duty of the individual who contracts with one
man on the credit of another, not to trust to ambiguous phrases."
Lord then addressed the court in an argument, of which the fol' lowing is a brief.
The Lawrences were purchasers in English market (not on continent) and wanted credit there to pay. Thei'r mother guarantied; guar-antee in 1838 ;.postage; preferences; credit. it induced; intended to
induce; terms very broad and. liberal. Principle of construction;
original liability, as inducing party to enter into the tGiansaction.
Law. Decisions of this court complete.
Construction. Bell v. Bruen, 1 Howard, 186; Mauran v. Bullus,
16 Peters, 528; Douglass v,Reynolds, 12 Peters, 499, 7 Peters, 122;
Mayer v. Isaac; 6 Mees. and Wels. 612; as to construction, to be according to fair, full import-of terms, without forcing a.construction.
Notice, not requisite; successive advances under a g.neral e'ngagement. 12 Peters, 504.
Explanatory circumstances may be shown. 1 Howard, 186; .Lee

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

441

Lawrence v. McCalmont et al.

v. Dick, 10 Peters, 493; Brooks v. Haigh, 10 Adol. and Ellis, 309,
(37 E. C. L. R.)
Consideration. I0 .Adol.and El. 309; 2 C. and H. Ph. Ev. 216;
5 Bing. New Cases, 577, Dutchman v. Troth.
Notice of default. 1ZPeters.
Construction of papers. Guarantee.
ccHaving a credit with your house." Words capable of embracing
past, present, and future.
"And in further consideration of $1 ;" receipt acknowledged; refers to legality, and to make effectual.
cc I engage they shall fulfil the engagements." Plural words, referring to engagements of J. and A. Lawrence.
cc They have made and shall make with you." cHave," refrs to
past; cc shall," to future.
"cFor meeting and feimbursing the payments." Guarantee for payments.
cc Which you may assume." "cMay," both past and future assumptions--not ",shall," future, but ccmay," indefinite.
ccUnder such credit." Credit with your house; whatever credit
will embrace "csuch" refers to.
c"At their request." That refers both to past and future; least decisive circumstance.
"cYou are to consider this a standing and continuing guarantee."
Evidently decisive of its character; vitally decisive.
cc Without- necessity of your apprizing me, from time to time, of
your engagements and advances for their house." Not a limitation;
for notice of successive advances under the same credit not necessary; an amplification or confirmation, for context is of amplitude, and
notice of renewals might be needful.
cc From time to time," could not refer to drafts under the one credit,
all of which were to be used in a period of six months.
" Of your engagements;" plaintiffs'; only one engagement under
the letter of 21st of November, viz. to honour bills to be drawn, but
the word is plural.
"cAdvances." By letter 21st of November, no advance was to be,
but acceptances covered.
,cAnd in case of a change of partners." cc And" connects with
"cwithout."
,cStanding guarantee," with two explanations, waiving notice,
and with permanency of corporation.
VoL. H.-56

442

SUPREME COURT.
Lawrence

v. MeCalmont et al.

"cChange of partners in your fln or theirs;" not shown change of
firm contemplated in either; such double change not to happen within
the short six months,; evidently contemplated renewal; the guarantee is -to apply to "ctransactions afterwards;" clearly, future dontemplation; not only change of firms, but transactions afterwards.
"Until notified byme to the contrary." Not only ordinary ontinuance umtil notice, but such continuance notwithstanding change of firm.
If no previous letter of credit, undoubtedly this guarantee would
have covered more than one credit.
Is there any thing to limit2 Said letter of November. limits. Not
a question of possibld construction of that letter, but probable. If she
never saw the letter orknew of it; then construction of guarantee
as if no letter. -Ifshe saw the letter or knew it."cA credit of £10,000-to be availed in six months-in such drafts,
&c.-against actual shipments;?' a credit for goods to be purchased;
not repeated purchases in six months of £10,000; the amount a
strong circumstance to qualify..
,cIn such drafts," &c., imports amount of all drafts to £10,000this is the natural and-fair import.
"In six months." Drafts at four months ;takes one-month to buy
and ship-in practice5 took the whole six months; on notice of shipment, see account, time to sell to procure bills to cover. Not anatural construction to have this credit a continuing credit. Suppose
this letter of 21st No-#ember lodged with a Nottingham house.
Not a continuing credit; no contemplation of continuous dealing
expressed on. this lette. Melville v. Hayden, 3 Barn. and Ald. 593;
R9gers v. Warner, 8 Johns. R. 119; Whitney v. Givot, 24 Wendell, 84. The action of -the parties under it; the Lawrences did not
attempt to eke it out 'bydrawing anew; although they showed that
they wanted a new credit.
If not a continuing c.edit, then clearly guarantee cannot be. a standing and continuing guarantee unless it contemplates new letters of credit.
If aked, Why letter to six months if guarantee continuing? Answ.r, It might well-become inconvenient for McCalmont, Bros. and
Co., to ren w so large engagements at such a period.
If letter of 21st of November is a continuing credit for six months,
still the guarantee contemplates no such termination.
1. No limitation of time in guarantee. If intended, itwould have
been expressed-so much expiessed, this -would also have been expressed.

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

448-

Lawrence v. MecCalmont et aL

2. Notice of engagements and advances -waived-only one engagement of McCalmont-no advances here contemplated; the acceptances were to be" covered. "At their request," contemplates a
future request not in this letter of 21st November.
3. "Engagements they have made and shall make -cannot be sat-,
isfied if confined to. the previous letter, for one engagement already
made-no plural, no future.
4. "Payments you may assume," contemplates rather-future than
present-a word indefinite, to embrace both.
5. "From time to time," cannot reasonably be cut down to six
months; or rather to the short time for the new drawing of bills, i. e..
sixty days after the first drafts were drawn and covered.
6. c Change of partners"-tbis obviously contemplated a continuance beyond one set of drafts.
On the wvhole, a fair reading of the paper called for a continuance
and renewal of the credit.
If " continuing and standing guarantee" no objection, that credit
not renewed until after first one terminated.
The reference to the guarantee did not imply a doubf of its meanmg,*but the contrary-it only implied carefulness as lo iti terms.
11. No want of consideration. On face of paper clear considera-.
tion oQfvalue. Opening the paper, is there want of consideration,
Can they open the paper for tlis purpose at law; it is valid on its
face. It is like a sealed bond, as to validity on its face. They may
open the paper as a receipt to recover the consideration if not paid,
but that supposes stipulation valid on our part so as to g;ve them
title to the consideration. Suppose consideration, instead, of $1 to
be $500, would non-payment vitiate the guarantee? 'Dutchman v.
Troth, 5 Bing. N. C. 577; 2 Ph. Ev. (CO.and H.) 216, note.194:
Like bargain and sale of lands; why not identical? The consideration there and here only to give form of law to intent 'of parties;
But the letter of 20th November, delivered on the promise of this
guarantee, was consideration. -.Adoption of previous promise.
Andrews v. Poutrac, 24 Wendell R.-288.
Again, Suppose paper opened: defendant must show actual want
of consideration, so as not to intend to bind. Real consideration;
the promise by her sons, on which defendants acted, she informed.
and confirmed it. Again, if she had refused, defendants' agents
could have countermanded and have protested against part of the
drafts. Having a credit would have ceased.

444

SUPREME COURT.
Lawrence v. McCalmont et al.

3. Guarantee supposed continuing, or no need of this question.
If continuing, having a credit renewed was full consideration.
III. No variance in new credit. The guarantee, in terms of
amplest kind; allowed of any future agreements with J. and A. Lawrence as to reimbursements, either for shorter or longer credit of reimbursement; either for reimbursement by cash or bills; for smaller
amounts, for narrower terms.
Again, the subject guarantied was the engagement of McCalmont
and Co., and their payments. Now if credit were broader or not,
but bills were drawn exactly within the first credit, those engagements guarantied.
'But, the letter 21st November contemplated no drawing from the
conti-ent. Not, presumed to draw except at customary rate, that
three months, (letter'Jan. 12,) but bills uffder old credit four months;
showing no bills, for continent. New credit allowed bills for continent and so broader: but guarantee not broader; only ask to cover
bills within old terms. If we had given two new letters, one for continent, one for England, no ground to contend latter not covered;
the guarantee is not that we shall give the wider credit, but that the
Lawrences shall pay the bills withiji the contemplation of the parties.
No additional security called for. Again, the stipulation as to
parties permanently residing, &c. This declaratory only; just as the
bills-under the credit of November 21 ; it was optional with us, and
not insisted on; it was evidently to guard against an abuse of the
credit in this country; it was merely expressing the previous understanding of the parties as it had, been acted on. It did not and could
not prejudice, the Lawrences or defendants; they were to draw, to
pay for goods to be bought in England; the new letter fully allows
this.
IV. Notice of default. J. D. Lawrence in courty son of defendant,
living with her, united interests to large amount. If any damage
actually, they knew, we did not. If examined, I have shown ability
to provide. Notice, first merely to give sarety notice before suit;
subsequently applied for purpose of giving him opportunity .to
get indemnity. Look to substance, not like notice on a draft.
The court told jury object of this notice; left them to say if notice
was there. Actual notice of demand was proved; knowledge in
season for indemnity was clearly submitted to jury and found by them.
V. Want of protest. The notes turned over, were turned over
not as negotiated but deposited; like notes in a bank for collection.

JANUARY

TERM, 1844.

445

Lawrence v. McCalmont et al.

Not a conditional payment. No liability sought against J. and A.
Lawrence as endorsers. We hold subject to 6ncashment, to be
collected and realized as far as they could, do it, and the proceeds to
be remitted to plaintiffs for the credit. Distinct understanding that
they received this paper subject to its encashment, on being paid at
maturity. Here merely a question of onus; were plaintiffs under the
technical obligation to notify J. and A. Lawrence, who h d already
failed? Evidently a mere deposit for collection, not a negotiation in
way of business.
Mr. Justice STORY delivered the opinion of thecourt.
This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court for the southern district
of New York.
On the 21st of November, 1838, J. and A. Lawrence obtained
from the agents (Messrs. Gihon and Co.) at New York, of McCalmont3 Brothers and Co., of London, the following letter of credit:
.V'ew York, 21st N'ov., 1838.
Messrs. McCalmont, Brothers and Co., London:
Gent. :-We have granted to Messrs. J. and A. Lawrence of this
city, a cgedit with you of £10,000, say ten thousand pounds sterling,
to be availed of within six months from this time, in such drafts as
they may direct, at four months' date, against actual shipments of
goods for their account, and coming to their address; -said goods to
be forwarded through you or your agents.
The above credit is granted under their engagement to cover your
acceptances before maturity, by direct remittances -from this country
of approved sixty day bills-seconds of exchange to be handed to
us for transmission to you. You are to charg6 one per cent, commission on the amount accepted, and to keep the account at five per
cent. interest per annum.
We are, gents., your ob. st.,
JoHN GiHoN and Co.
The letter of credit was delivered on Mr. Lawrence's proposal of
his mother's (the plaintiff in error's) security for the credit. On the
17th of December, 1838, Mrs. Lawrence gave the following guarantee:
Messrs. McCalmont, Brothers and Co., London:
Gent. :-In consideration of Messrs. J. and A. Lawrende having
a credit with your house, and in further consideration of one dollar
2P

446

SUPREME COURT.
Lawrence v. McCalmont

et al.

paid me by yourselves, receipt of which I hereby acknowledge, I
engage to you that they shall fulfil the engagements they have made
and shall make with you, for'meeting and reimbursing the payments
which you may assume under such credit at their request; together
with your charges, and I guaranty you from all payments and
damages by reason of their default.
You are to consider this a standing and continuing guarantee without the necessity of your apprizing me, from ,time to time, of your
engagements and advances for their house; and in case of a change
of partners in your firm or theirs, the guarantee is to apply and continue to transactions 'afterwards between the firms as changed, until
notified by me to thWe contrary.
SusAr LA wENcE.
Yours, respectfully,
Under these documents, McCalmont, Brothers and Co. made the
stipulated advafices, which were ri.paid; and on the transactions
included within the six months from 21st of November, 1838,
nothing has been claimed by the London house. About the expiration of the six months, Mr. Lawrence (one of the firm of 3. and
Lawrence) at New York called on the agents of McCalmoint, Brothers and C6., and asked if it was agreeable for the agents to con,tinue the credit for £10,000. The reply of one of the agents was,
that there *as no objection to continue it on the same terms as
before, stating that it Was to be on the mother's guarantee attached
to the previous credit. Mr. Lawrenc e then answered, that he dl,4
not expect it on any other terms, or without the guarantee. The
agent then wished time to'examine whether the guarantee was for
a particular credit, or was a continuing guarantee; and having referred
to the letter 6f guarkntee, they drew up and delivered to Mr. Lawrence a second letter of credit, (Mr. Lawrence and the agents both
agreeing that itwas a continuing guarantee, and as such no new
letter was needed from the mother.) The'second letter of credit,
dated on 12fh of June, 1839, 'was as follows:
.N3ew York, June 12th, 1839.
Messrs. McCalmont, Brotrers and Co., London:
Gent. .-- With reference to, our letter of 21st November last, opening a Credit on your good selves, favour Messrs. J. and A. Lawrence
for £10,000 to be drawn within six months from that date, and
which expired by limitation last rhonth. We hereby renew the same
for a lIke period from the date hereof, nd under the same stipula-

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

.447

Lawrence v. McCalmont-et al.

tions, with this proviso, that the bills be drawn by, or in favour of
parties permanently resident in Europe; and if made from the continent, they be made at the customary date, say three months.
JonN GmoN and Co.
We remain, &c.,
Under this second letter of credit bills were drawn- and paid by
MeCalmont, Brothers and Co., to an amount exceeding in the whole
the £10,000 stipulated for. The bills being all drawn at four
months. The firm of J. and A. Lawrence not having made any.
remittances to pay the new advances, and firm having failed, the
agents of the London house on the 29th day of May, 1840, addressed
the following letter to Mrs. Susan Lawrence, giving her notice of the
non-payment of the advances.
'ew York, MYfay 29th, 1840.
Mrs. Susan Lawrence:
Madam :-We enclose on behalf of Messrs. McCalmont, Bros. and
Co., a copy of the account of Messrs. J. and A. Lawrence with them,
showing a balance due of £10,349 8s. 5d.--say ten thousand three
hundred and forty-nine pounds eight shillings' and fivepence sterling,
on first January last, with interest. These gentlemen not having
fulfilled their engagements to reimburse this account, we claim payr~ent of you under your guarantee to Messrs. McCalmont, Bros. and
J. GiHoN and. Co.,.
Company.
Respectfully, yours,
Agents of McCalmont, Bros. and Co., of London.
She declinfing to pay the deficit, the present action of assumpsit
was brought against her to enforce the payment. At th& trial
upon the- general issue, in addition to the facts already stated,
it was in evidence that during the whole period of thesd transactions, Mrs. Lawrence resided, at Brooklyn, (New York,) in the same
house with her. sons, J. and A. Lawrence. There was also evidence in the cause to show that McCalmont, Brothers and Co., had
by their agents, certain notes-belonging tbthe firm of J. and A. Lawrence, and endorsed by the firm for collection, and the proceeds when
received were to be applied towards the liquidation of the debt due
to the London house, subject to their encashment on being paid at
maturity, under.which the sum of £1309, 16s. 6d. had been realized.
The notes thus deposited for collection, which were dishonoured at
maturity, were protested accordingly, and the original plaintiffs
offered the protests and notices to J. and A. Lawrence of the dishonour in evidence, but the evidence as to some of the notices was

448

SUPREME COURT.
Lawrence v. M Calmont et 41.

not full. Much other evidence was given at the trial, which, however, it is not necessary to state.
The counsel for Mrs. Lawrence then asked the court to charge the
jury as follows:
1st. That the said credit of 21st November, 1838, is a standing
and continuing credit during the six months.
2d. That defendant's guarantee of 17th December, 1838, is confined to the said credit, both as to time and amount.
3d. That the acceptances and claims of the plaintiffs demanded in
their declaration in this suit, are not covered by the guarantee of the
defendant aforesaid.
4th. That the new credit aforesaid of the 12th of June, 1839, is
not a continuance or repetition of the first credit, but a departure
from it, and is not covered by or embraced in the defendant's said
guarantee.
5th. That the nominal consideration of one dollar, ana1 the past
consideration stated in defendant's said guarantee, are not, nor is
either of them, sufficient to sustain the said guarantee.
6th. That the evidence that the said J. and A. Lawrence agreed
to give a guarantee at the time said credit of 21st November, 1838,
was given, is not sufficient in law to render valid the consideration
expressed in defendant's said guarantee, or to sustain the said
guarantee.
7th. The facts being ascertained, the question whether the notice
given to the defendant by the plaintiffs of the failure of the said 3.
and A. Lawrence to remit to cover the plaintiffs' acceptances was
reasonable, is a question of law, and no notice, sufficient in law, was
given of such failure to the defendant.
8th. If the sufficiency of such notice be a question exclusively of
fact, a reasonable and sufficient notice was not given to her of such
failure of J. and A. Lawrence to remit as aforesaid.
9th.. The notes received by the plaintiffs, through their agents to
collect, ought, when there was a failure of payment, to have been
regularly protested, and due notice thereof served on the defendant
and J. and A. Lawrence; and, on failure thereof, a credit should be
allowed for the same.
The judge thereupon charged the jury, that the plaintiffs were not
precluded from recovering under the guarantee in evidence by reason
of any supposed want of consideration therefor; and the same was
not without sufficient consideration.

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

449

Lawrence v. McCalmont et aL

That the said guarantee of the 17th December, 1838, was not
limited to the credit of November 21, 1838, but -was a standing and
continuing guarantee, and did apply to, and was sufficient to embrace, 'transactions arising after the said credit of November, 1838,
was expired.
That the new credit of June 12, 1839, and the advances and
transactions under it, were not in law without the scope of. the guarantee of December 11/, 1838, and that the plaintiffs were, under the
evidence, entitled to recover for the same under the said guarantee.
That the defendant was entitled to a reasonable notice of the
default of the principal debtors, to enable her to take measires for her
indemnity; that it was for the jury to consideri whether under all the
circumstances in evidence, the defendant had not had such notice.
That as to the notes turned over by the principal debtors to J.
Gihon and Co., as the same were merely lodged with the latter, on
their engagement that the proceeds of them, when received, were to
be passed to their credit, the want of protest of any such notes as
were dishonoured, or of notice thereof to the said J. and A. Lawrence would not entitle.the defendant to charge the plaintiffs with the
amount of such notes, or to claim a deduction for that amount.
And with that charge left the said. cause to the jury: unto which
charge, and to the refusal of the judge to charge otherwise, and as
requested by defendant as aforesaid, the defendant's counsel then and
there excepted.
The-jury found a verdict for the plaintiffs for $47,105 97 cents;
upon-which judgment was rendered for the plaintiffis; and upon that
judgment and. the exceptions taken at the trial the present writ of
error has been brought,
Some remarks have been made on the argument here upon the
point in what manner letters of guarantee are-to be construed; whether
they are to receive a strict or. a liberal, interpretation. We have no .
difficulty whatsoever in saying, that instruments of this sort ought to
receive a liberal interpretation. By a liberal interpretation, we- do
not mean, that the words should be forced out oftheir natural -meaning; but simply that the words should receive a fair and reasonable
interpretation, so as to attain the objects for which the instrument is
designed and the purposes to which it is applied. We should never
forget that letters of guarantee are commercial instruments-generally
drawn up b ' merchants in brief language-sometimes inartificial,
and often loose in their structure and form; and to construe the words
VOL. Hl.-57
2 P2

SUPItEME COURT.
Lawrence v. McCalmont et a].

of such instruments with a nice and te6hnical care would not only
defeat the intentons of the parties, but render them too unsafe a basis
to rely on for extensive credits, so often sought ir the present active
business of commerce throughout the world. The remarks made by
this court in the case of Bell v. Bruen, 1 How. R. 169, 186, meet
our entire approbation. The Same doctrine was asserted in Mason
v. Pritchard,. 12 East R. 227, where a guarantee was given for any
goods he hath or may supply W. P. with, to the amount of £100 ;
and it was held by the court to be a-continuing guarantee for goods
supplied at any time to W. P. until the credit was recalled, although
goods to more than £100 had been first supplied and paid for; and
the court on that occasion distinctly stated that the words were to be
taken as strongly aainst the guarantor as the sense of them would
admit of. The same doctrine was fully recognised in Haigh v.
Brooks, 10 Adol. and El. 309, and in Mayer p. Isaac, 6 Mees.
and Wels. 605, and especially expounded in the opinion of Mr.
Baron Alderson. It was the very ground, in connection with the
accompanying circumstances, upon which this court acted in Lee v.
Dick, 10 Peters, 482, and in Mauran v. Bullus, 16 PNters, 528.
Indeed, if the language used be ambiguous and admits of two fair
interpretations, and the guarantee has advanced his money upon the
faith of the interpretation most favourable to his rights, that interpretation will prevail in his favour; for it does not lie in the mouth of
the guarantor to say that he may, without peril, scatter ambiguous
words, by which the other party is misled to his injury.
Passing from these general considerations, let us now address ourselves to the points made at the argument. , The first point is, that
the second advance was made upon terms and under an agreement
materially variant from that on which the guarantee was given, without any communication with the guarantor* or her consent thereto.
The variances insisted on are two ; first, in requiring the bills to be
drawn by or in favour of parties permanently resident in Europe;
secondly, that if the bills were drawn from the continent of Eurolie,
they should be made at the customary date, say three months. We
think that there is no variance whatsoever, which is not fairly within
the scope of the original guarantee, and was so contemplated by J. and
A. Lawrence, as well as by the agents of the London house. This
is explicitly proved by the evidence; for, upon the question arising,
both the Lawrences and the agents agreed that it was a continuing
guarantee, and as such no new letter ofguarantee was needed. It is

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

451

Lawrence v. McCalmont et a].

true that Mrs. Lawrence was no party to this interpretation of the
instrument; but then it is strong evidence to establish that it was
neither a forced nor unnatural interpretation of the words. ' And the
agents of the London house agreed to make the second advance
upon the faith of it.
Now, looking to the very words of the guarantee, we see that it
contemplated-not a single advance ftd then it was to end-but a
continuing guarantee, and the very words are found in it. It also
contemplated not only agreements which had been already made
between J. and A. Lawrence and the agents, but also.future agreements. The guarantor says: cc I engage that they shall fulfil the
agreements they have made, and shall make with you for meeting
and reimbursing the payments which you may assume." And
again : ", You are to consider this a standing and continuing guarantee
without the necessity of apprizing me from time to time of your
engagements and advances for the house." ccSo that new engagements and new advances were contemplated to be made to which
the-guarantee should attach without notice thereof." And this is not
all-for the girarantee goes on to provide for its continuance in cage
of a change in the partners of either firm, (a change which would
ordinarily be fatal to a guarantee;) and that the guarantee should apply
to and continue upon transactions afterward§ between the firms so.
changed, until notified by her to the contrary. It seems plain from
all this language, that a series of new transactions, new agreements,
and new engagements were within the contemplation of the parties;
not advances for six months alone, but advances from time to time,
for an indefinite period, until notice to the contrary'should be given
by the guarantor. It is difficult to conceive of any language more
definite- and more full to express the real intention of the parties.
The original advance -aso, ihideed, agreed to be made in the manner
stated in the first letter of credit; and if there be any variance between
the terms of the first and the second letter of credit, that was left solely
and exclusively for the immediate parties J. and A. Lawrence and
theagents to adjust and consider. They might enter into any new
engagements as to the-mode of dr-awing the bill, and the time which
they were to run at their pleasure, without breaking in upon the true
intention of the guarantee. All the stipulations of the first letter of
credit were retained in the second, and an additional provision made,
that if bills were drawn from the continent of Europe they should be
made at the customary date and by a permanent resident. But this

452

SUPREME COURT.
Lawrence v. McCalmont et al.

left J. and A. Lawrence at full liberty to draw direct on London at
four months, if they chose; and in point of fact no bills were ever
drawn by them except direct on London, and not from the continent.
The additional liberty given, or condition imposed, was not availed
of; and, if it had been, it would not have in any manner exonerated
the guarantor from her responsibility. Without, therefore, looking
to the question whether these variances might or might not have been
material, if new arrangements and engagements had not been within
the scope of the guarantee, we are of opinion, that the objection is,
in the present case, not maintainable.
This view of the matter disposes also of the second, third, and
fourth points made at the argument.
The fifth point is, that there is no valid consideration to support
the guarantee. This is pressed under two aspects; the first is, that
the consideration was past and not present; for the letter of credit
had been already delivered to J. and A. Lawrence by the agents of
the London house. The second is, that the payment of the one
dollar is merely nominal and not sufficient to sustain the guarantee,
if it had been received; and it is urged that it was not received.
As to this last point, we feel no difficulty. The guarantor acknowledged the receipt of the one dollar, and is now estopped to deny it.
If she has not received it, she would now be entitled to recover it.
A valuable consideration, however small or nominal, if given or stipulated f6r in good faith, is, in the absence of fraud, sufficient to support
an action on any parol contract; and this is equally true as to contracts of guarantee as to other contracts. A stipulation in consideration of one *dollaris just as effectual and valuable a consideration as
a larger sum stipulated for or paid. The very point arose in Dutchman v. Tooth, 5 Bingham's New Cases, 577, where the guarantor
gave a guarantee for the .ayment of the proceeds of the goods the
guarantee had consigned to his brother, and also all future shipments
the guarantee might make in consideration of two shillings and sixpence paid him, the guarantor. And the court held the guarantee
good and the consideration sufficient. In Brooks v. Haigh, 10 Adol.
and El. 09, 323, the court held that a surrender by the guarantee
of a former guarantee, even if it was not of itself binding upon the
guarantor, was a sufficient consideration to take the case out of the
statute of fraud and fo sustain a promise made on the footing thereof.
But, independently of all authority, we should arrive at the same
conclusion. The receipt of the one dollar is acknowledged; no

JANUARY

TERM, 1844.

453

Lawrence v. McCalmont et al.

fraud is pretended or shown; and the consideration, if standing alone
in a bonafide transaction would sustain the present suit.
As to the other point, that the consideration was past, it admits
of several answers,-.each of which is equally decisive. In the first
place, although the Messrs. Lawrence had received the letter of credit
before the guarantee was given, yet it was a part of the originalagreement contemporaneous with the letter -of credit, that it should
be given' and if the guarantee had not been given, the whole advance
might have been recalled as a fraud upon the London house. In the
next.place, it does not appear that all the bills for the £10,000, under
the first letter of credit, were drawn before the guarantee was actually
given; and if they were not, certainly it would attach upon the bills
drawn under the first credit after it was actually given. The contract was then a continuing contract on both, and partially performed
only by one. In the next place, the guarantee itself uses language
susceptible of being treated as a present continuing consideration in,
fleti. It is " in consideration of Messrs. J. and A. Lawrence having
a credit with your house ;" now, the word " having" imports a present or ftiture advance, just as much as a past. The word c having"
is In the present tense; and if the parties then understood the letter
of credit to be inferi, and to be absolute only upon a condition subsequent, viz.: the giving of the guarantee, the word is the most. appropriate which could be used. The case of Haigh v. Brooks,
10 Adel. and El. 309, approaches very near to the p'resent. There
the guarantee was "in consideration of being in advance to L. &c.I
I guaranty, &c.'1 The Court of King's Bench thought that the words
"being in advance" did not necessarily import a past ad,'ance, but
f migbt be applied to a present or future advance.
But that which puts the whole matter in the clearest light and
beyond the reach of legal controversy, is that the advances now sued
for were all made after the second letter of credit was~given; and if
the guarantee applied (as we liold it did) to those subsequent advances
under the new engagements, then the consideratioti was complete
as upon a present and not as upon a past consideration. In every
view, therefore, in which we can contemplate the objection it has no
just foundation in-law.
As to the sixth point on the question, whether due notice of the
ibilure of Messrs. J. and A. Lawrence to repay the advaices had
been given ; it was a mere question of fact for the consideration of the
jury, as to whether the guarantor had reasonable notice or not.

454

SUPREME COURT.
Lawrence

0. McCalmont et al.

They have found a verdict for the plaintiffs, and we are not at liberty
to disturb it in a court of error.
As to the seventh point, the notes having been left for collection
only with the agents of the London house, although endorsed by the
Messrs. Lawrence, they do not fall within the strict rules of commercial law applicable to negotiable paper. Admitting for the sake of
the argument, that notice was not punctiliously given by the agents,
still it resolves itself into a mere question of due diligence on the part
of the agents to collect the notes, and falls under the general law
of agency. No evidence was shown at the trial to establish any loss
or damage on the part of Mrs. Lawrence for want of due protest
and notice, (if they were not made ;) and in the absence of such proof
we are not at liberty to presume that the agents did not do their duty.
The case of 'Swift v. Tyson, 16 Peters, 1, is entirely distinguishable from the pre~ent inits leading circumstances. There, the question was, not whether a persoh receiving a note as collateral security
or for an antecedent debt was not bound to dhe diligence in its collection, otherwise he made it his own, which was not doubted; but,
whether taking it as collateral security or in payment of an antecedent
debt, he was not to be treated as a bona fide holder for a valuable
consideration, unaffected by any unknown equities between the
original parties. This court held that he was.
Upon the whole we are all of opinion that there was no error in
the rulings of the court, and the judgment is, therefore, affirmed with
costs.
ORDER.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States, for the southern district of New York, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, It is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that the
judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be, and the same is
hereby affirmed with costs and damages at the rate of six per cent. per
annum.

