-392

SUPREME COURT.

WUL&X J. MINOR, AND CATHAINK 3IS WIFE, PLAINTIFFS IN ERIOR,
v. SHUBAL TLToTSO.
The distinction between writs of error and appeals cannot be overthrown by an
agreement of counsel in the court below, that all ihb evidence in the cause
shall be introduced and considered as a statement of facts.

Tins case was. brought before the court at the last term, on a
motion t9 dismiss, and is reported'in 1 Howard, 287.
The position of the case is sufficiently set forth in that report. It
now came up on a final hearing.
Walker, for the plaintiffs in error, examined the- title of the plaintiffs as set forth in the papers in the cause, and contended for its
superiority over that of the defendant.
Webster, for the defendant, referred to the decision in 1 H6ward,
and said that it was quite evident that there was no error of law
apparent on the face of the record. There is no ruling of evidence,
no demurrer, go bill of exceptions, no agreed state of facts, no special verdict. Nor is it like any of those cases in which the court has
acted -on undisputed evidence, in cases from Louisiana, as if such
undisputed evidence were equivalent to an agreed- state of facts.
The whole case, law and fact, was submitted to the judge, as a
re±bree or arbitrator. The law was disputed, and the facts were disputed;. and whether judgment was rendered on the facts or .on the
law does -not appear. The judgment is general, for the defendant.
If is plain -that this coukt cannot revise this judgment, without
examining all the evidence, plan, depositions, surveys, &c., just as
they would be examined by a jury.
For Any-thing which the record discloses, every point of law may
have been decided in the plaintiff's favour.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is brought here by a writ of error, to the Circuit Court
for the eastern district of Louisiana.
The action was commenced in the Circuit Court, to recover possession of certain tracts of land specified in the petition, and for
damages, &c.
The defendant set up a title to the premises and pleaded prescription, under the various laws of Louisiana.

3ANUARY

TERM, 1844.

Minor v. Tillotson.

This cause was before this court at January term, 1833, on a writ
of error, and was reversed and sent down for further proceedings.
Irl the court below, the death of, the plainSff was suggested, and a
supplemental. petition was filed, making his heirs and representatives
parties to the suit. The pleadings were amended, and a jury being
called and sworn, evidence was heard by them, and certain exceptions taken to its admissibility by the defendant: But afterwards,
by consent of parties, the jury, before they rendered their verdict,
were discharged. The cause was then submitted to the court, under
an agreement between the counsel, that c the documents filed in the
cause, the plans, and vritten depositions, contain all evidence and
exhibits on which this cause was tried by the court; the whole was
read, subject to all legal exceptions except as to the form of taking
the verbal testimony; and all other objection to the testimony,
accounts, and plans, are to be argued as though the bills of exceptions
were drawn out in form, signed and filed. The agreement is made for
a statement of the facts in the case."
A large mass of evidence was received from both parties, consisting of.concessions and grants under the Spanish government, intermediate conveyances, documents showing proceedings in regard to
the title under the- laws of the United States,. and parol testimony,
involving a great variety of facts, on a consideration of all of.which
a judgment was rendered by the -Circuit Court f6r the defendant.
From the record, it -is impossible for this court to say on what
grounds of law or fact the Circuit Court gave judgment, . No point
as to the admissibility or- effect of- the evidence -was raised on the
record by the plaintiffs 'in error 'inthe Circuit Court. It seems to
have been supposed that the above agreement of the counsel, that the
evidence in the cause should be considered as a statement of facts,
subject to all legal objections) though no ojections.were stated, was
sufficient ground for a writ of error on which a revision of the legal
questions in the case might lie made in this court
In this view, the writ of error must be c6nsidered as bringing all
the facts before this court, as they stood before the Circuit Court.
And this court, exercising a revisory jurisdiction, would be-required
to try the cause on its merits. This' is n'ever done on a writ of error,
which issues according to the course of-the common law. Under the
Louisiana system a different practice. may prevail. But, we had supposed, that since, the decisions of the case of Parsons v. Bedford et
al., 3Peters, 445, there could be no misapprehension in regard to the
VOL.*H.-50

394

SUPREME COURT.
Minor v. Tillotson.

proceedings of this court on a writ of error. In that case, the court
say, cc it was competent for the original defendant to have raised any
poinfs of law growing out of the evidence at the trial, by a proper
application io the court; and to have brought any error of the court
in its instruction or refusal, by a bill of conceptions, before this court
for revision. Nothing of this kind was done or proposed. No bill
of exceptions was tendered to the court, and no points of law are
brought under review." And the court go on to consider the effect.
ofthe act of 1824, in regard to the Louisiana practice, and hold that
that law-does not change the exercise of the appellate power of this
court.
The case referred to had been fried by a jury, but in regard to the
revisory power of this court, on a writ of error, there is np material
difference between that' case and the one under consideration. In
both cases the facts were upon the record, and this court were called
upon to determine the questionp of law arising upon the facts.
In the case of Parsons the court do say, "cthat if the evidence were
before, them it would not 'be competent for the court to reverse the
judgment for any error in the verdict of the jury.' And they say, the
refusal of the coutt, to direct the evidence to be entered on the
record5 as required under -the Louisiana. practice, was not matter
of error.
Whatever opinion, therefore, may have been-entertained in regard
to the effect of the act of 1824, on the practice of the Circuit Court
of the United States, in Louisiana, before the above decision; after
it, there would seem to be no ground for doubt. The practice of the
Circuit Court in Louisiana, since the above case was decided, has
conformed to the rule laid down in that case. But in the present
cause, there is no statement of agreed facts. If the case be revised
on a :writ of error, the evidence on both sides musf be considered
and weighed by the court, as a jury would consider and weigh it;
and after adjusting the balance, the principles of law, not as -they
were presented to the Circuit Court, but as they may arise on the
evidence, must be determined. This is not the province of a court
of error, but of a court of chancery on an appeal from the decree of
an inferior court. On such a review, not.only the competency of the
evidence must be decided, but also the credibility of the witnesses.
The case under consideration was a proceeding at law, and, as the
legal points have not been raised by a bill of exceptions, in the Circuit Court, it is not a case for revision in this cQuit. A judgment of

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

895

Taylor et aL v. Savag'e's Executor.

costs of the plaintiff in
affimance is, herefore, entered, at the
error.
ORDEr.

This cause came on to be heard on the trafiscript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States, 'for the Eastern District of 'Louisiana, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, It is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that the
judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause he, and 'the same is
hereby affirmed with costs.

WIL LIm

TAYLOR AND

OTHERs, APPELLANTS, V. GEORGE M.

EXECUTOR OF SAMUEL SAVAGE,

DECQEASED,

SAVAGE,

DEFENDANT.

The case of Taylor and others v. Savage, 1 Howard, 282, examined and.
confirmed.

THis case came before the court at the last term; and is reported
in 1 Howard, 282.
It was brought up again on a motion to dismiss the appedl.
,Morehead, who made the moti6n, referred to the decision at the
last term, and said that notwithstanding that decision, the case was
still here. He considered the opinion of the court as covering the
whole ground.
C(ittenden, ,contra.
Both partjes. appealed from the decision of the court below;. but
Savage did not perfect his appeal. There is a difficulty in maldng
proper parties, if the case is sent back The law'of Alabama says
that administration of the estate shall be attached to the office of
sheriff, but his official term will soon expire, and we shall have to
litigate -with temporary administrators.
Berrien, on the same side, thought therd was still a case before
the court upon which it could act. It is true that the. decree below
was rendered on the same day that the administrator was removed;
but notwithstanding this, it -was well rendered. If a party dies, the
court will direct a judgment to be entered as on the first
day of:the
term. 2 Peters, 481.

