486

SUPREME

COURT.

Adams et al. v. Roberts.

bill they were both utterly insolvent; that Timberlake was probably
so before the commencement of these transactions, and that Smith
before the maturity of the bill had made an assignment of every thing.
he had claim to, for the benefit of others. and, amongst the creditors
named in that assignment, providing for the plaintiff in error as ranking high amongst the preferred class.
Under such circumstances to have required-notice of the dishonour
of the bill would have been a vain and unreasonable act, such as the
law cannot be presumed to exact of any person. Upon a review of
the whole case, we think that the judgment of the Circuit Court should
be affirmed.
ORDER.

This cause came on to be heard oil the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the district of South
Carolina, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof,
It is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment
of the said Circuit Court in this cause be, and the same is hereby
affirmed with costs and damages at the rate of six per centum.per
annum.

AUSTIN L. ADADIS AND ANN C. HARDING, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V.
JULIA Ro ETS.

On the trial of a petition for freedom, a paper was produced, which was a copy
of a deed of manumission, executed in December, 1801, by the owner of cerrain slaves in Virginia (and amongst them, the mother of the petitioner, to
become free on the 1st of January, 1814,) to which paper the names of two
persons were attached as witnesses. In January, 1802, the grantor went into
court in Fairfax county, Virginia, and ordered it to be recorded; but it did
not appear whether the two witnesses were then with, him or not. The
grantor resided in the District of Cclumbia.
Under these circumstances, and under the statute of Virginia, passed December
17, 1792, a prayer to the court to instruct the ,jury that the petitioner was
not entitled to freedom was properly refused.
The mother of the petitioner becoming free on the tst of January, 1814, the exact
time of the birth of the petitioner, whether before or after that day, was a fact
for the jury; and a prayer to the court which would have exctuded the consideration-of that faLt was properly refused.

JANUARY

TERM. 1844.

487

Adams et al. v. Roberts.

Tins case was brought up by writ of error, from the United States
Circuit Court of the District of Columbia for the county of Alexandria.
Julia Roberts, a coloured woman, sued in the Circuit Court for her
freedom under the follow.ing circumstances.
Anterior to the cession to the United States of that portion of Virginia which is now comprehended within the District of Columbia,
Simon Summers resided in it, and was the -owner of a female slave
named Sarah, who, it was admitted, was th( mother of Julia, the petitioner ir the court below.
On the 30th of-December, 1801, Summner executed a deed of manumigsion of several negroes, and amongst them, Sarah, then about
eighteen years old, to be free on the 1st day of January, 1814; and
the deed further provided that the children of Sarah should be free
at the age of twen ty-five years.
Before the execution of this deed of manumission, Summers had
been transferred, by virtue of the cession from Virginia, to the District of Columbia. The deed concludes as follows:
As witness my hand and seal, this 30th day of December, 1801.
SIMoN SUMMERS, [L. s.]
Test. Ca&xi;Es LITTLE,
HARRISON CLEAVELANDf.

At a court held for Fairfax county, 18th day of January, 1802,
Simon Summers acknowledged this deed of manumission, to the
severl negroes therein mentioned, to be his act and deed, which is
ordered to be recorded.
Test.
WILLIAM Moss, Clerk.
A copy.
Test.
S. M. BALL.
This deed was acknowledged before, and recorded in, the court ofFairfax countyv Virginia, in which county Summers had lived, prior
to .the cession to the United States. After the cession, he became
thereby a resident of Alexandria county, in the District of Columbia.
without changing his. domieil.
The statute of Virginia in force in Alexandria county, is the 36th
section of the act of the General Assembly of Virginia, passed the
17th December, 1792, entitled c an act to reduce into one the seve:.
ral acts concerning slaves, free negroes, and mulattoes.". Sect. 36,
will be found atp. 191 of Pleasant's edition of the laws of Virginia,
published in 1803, and is in the following words:cc It shall be lawful for any person by hWs or her last will and testament, or by any other instrument in wr~ing under his or her hand

488

SUPREME COURT. Adams et al. v. Roberts.

and seal, attested rid.prov&I in the County or Corporation Court by
two witnesses, or acknowledged by the party in the court of the
county where he or she resides, to emancipate and set free his or her
slaves, or any of them, who shall thereupon' be entirely and fully discharged from -the performance of any contract entered into during
servitude, and enjoy as full -freedom as if they had been partieularly
named and freed by this act."
The original deed of manumission, after being recorded, was mislaid or lost, but a paper, admitted to be a true copy, was prodtqced
upon the trial.- It was admitted that the petitionDer, Julia, was the
daughter of Sarah, and was, at the time the suit was brought, over
twenty-five years of age.
The trial took place at May term, 1842. Much evidence was
given which is imbodied in the following bill of exceptions, and
which is set foth at'large, becatise the prayer in the-second-bill of
exceptions refers to, and is based upon it.
1st Bill of Exceptions.
At the trial of this cause, the petitioner having given evidence
tending to show that, previous to the year 1801, Sarah, the mother
of the petitioner; was the property of Simon Summers, and remained
in his possessiofi until about the year 1799, when she wis placed
by said Summers in the possession of Wesley Adams, who about that
time married the daughter of said Summers, and who lived then, and
continued to live for many, years thereafter, in Fairfax county, Virgima; then gave evidence that diligent search had been. made
among the records of Fairfax county, Virginia, for an original deed
of manumission of said petitioner's. mother by said Summers, but no
such original deed could be found, and that the same is lost; but
that there was among said records the enrolment- of a deed, whereof
the annexed paper, marked A, is admitted to -be-a true.copy, and of
the certificates-of acknowledgment-and the -recording-of the same.
And-further offered evidence that. said.deed,was personally acknowledged by the said Simon Summers, in the county court of the said
county- of Fairfax-the said slave Sarah being then there in the said
county, and having always before .resided in-the said county. And
the petitioner then. read in evidence the said papermarked A, purporting to be the copy of a deed of manumission from said Summers,
of the negro woman named Sarah, named therein; and then gave
evidence -tending to show that the p6titioner was- the child of sid

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

489

Adams et al. v. Roberts.

named Sarah, and is now about 38 (28) years-of age; and further
gave evidence tending to show that the defendant Harding makes no
claim to the petitioner in her own right, but solely by the direction
of her co-defendant Adams, who is the son of the Wesley Adams
above named, and his said wife the daughter of said Agummers. And
the petitioner further gave evidence tending to show that, about the
year 1820, the said Wesley Adams brought Sarah, the petitioner's
mother, to the public poor-house in Fairfax county, state of Virginia,
and applied to the overseers of the poor for said county, for alimony
for said Sarah as a free woman of colour, and her two-small children;
and that a levy was made upon said county for their support, and
they were supported until the year 1826, when a levy was made for
the support of said Sarah and the three children which she then had
with her, but among wfom the petitioner was not included; and
that said levy, when raised, was placed in the hands of said Wesley
Adams for their support as aforesaid. And further gave widence
tending to show that Sarah passed as free for a number of years, and
that Wesley Adams, about the year 1826, said that Sarah-and her
children were free, and that the said Adams wanted to sell the petitioner to a witness, to serve him until she should reach .twenty-five
years of age, when she was to go free; and that Simon Summers had
given slaves to him in such a way as to be of no service to him, as
they became free so soon as they became valuable. Abd the petitioner further gave evidence tending to prove, that at the division
of the estate ,of Simon Summers, who died in 1836, the defendant
Adams was present, and that in said division the said Sarah was
brought into hotch-pot-that is, Wesley Adams was charged, as distributee of Simon Summers's estate, with the value'of the.services of
said Sarah, up to the year 1814, when she went free, and up to which
time the, said Summers had allowed her to'serve Wesley Adams. And
the plaintiff further offered evidence to prove, that the said Simon
Summers resided in the county of Fairfax before and until the 27th of
February, 1801, when the county-of Alexandria was erected,.consisting of a part of the said county of Fairfax; and the then residence
of the said Simon Summers fell within the said county of Alexandria,
in the District of Columbia, without any change of his actual residence ; that the slaves mentioned in the deed of emancipation had
always resided in the said. county of Fairfax up to the date of the
said deed, and to the time of its acknowledgment as aforesaid.
Thd defendants then offered evidence tending to prove, that an
VOL. ll1.-62

4-90

SUPREME COURT.
Adams et 'al. v. Roberts.

order was made by the overseers of the poor of the said county of
Fairfax, in 1825, to demand of the said Wesley Adams the $20 advanced him for the support of Sarah's infant children.
The defendants then gave evidence tending to show that said
Sarah died some .years ago, on the land of John Adams, and after
remaining two "daysthere, was 'buried at the expense of the defendant, Austin L. Adams.'
The defendants then- gave evidence tending t.show that.at he
date of the paper, marked A, viz. : 30th December, -18Q1, the said
Simon Summers was a resident of. the county of Alexandria, District
of Columbia,, and -did not reside in Fairfax county, Virginia. But
the witnesses who proved the said residence of said Summers, proved,on cross-examination, that at said'last-mentiQned date, the said Sarah
was in the possession of Wesley- Adams, inFairfax county, Virnia;
and that at said date Simon Summers-owned 200 acres of woodland
in said Fairfax county, and was interested in another tract of land in
said Firfax county, on which th6re was a house, and which was
cultivated. land, but which was tenanted by one Furguon ; add that
said Simon Summers resided-before 1800, in Fairfax'countyin.Vrginia, and never removed from the place where he then resided; but
that the place of, his residence was included within, the lines of the
District of Columbia, and that he continued to-reside in the same
place until his death.
W-hereupon. the defendants, by-their counsel, prayed -the court to
instruct the jury, that if they shall believe, fromthe aboye evidence,
that the said Simon Summers did reside in th cbunty of Alexandria,
District of Columbia, at the time of the executing and acknowledging
the deed aforesaid, and continued so to reside until his death, in
1836, then that the deed of emancipation so, as aforesaid, made, executed, acknowledged, and recQrded in the tOounty. Court of Fairfax
county, Virginia, does not entitle the petitioner to-freedom under the
statute of Virginia, in such cases made and provided, entitled "cAn
act reducing into one the several acts-concerning
slaves, free negroes,
1792.
and mulattoes," passed the 17th December,
But the court refused to give the instruction as prayed, and to
which refusal the defendants except, and pray that this their bill of
-exception may be signed, sealed, and enrolled, and -which is accordingly done, this the 18th of May, 1842.
W,
S.
L
S.]
JAMS S. MoRSEL. [L.. s.]

JANUARY
Adams et a.

T1PRM, 1844.

401"

v. Roberts.

2d Bill of EKceptons.
Be it remembered, that on the trial of this-causd-the petitioner and
defendant-having offered the evidence contained in the first bill of
exceptions, and this being all the evidence adduced on the part of
the petitioner and defendant aforesaid, the defendants,'by their counsel, prayed the court to instruct the jury, that the testimony aforesaid,
although believed*by the jury, is not sufficient in law to maintain the
issue joined; and therefore the law is for the defendants.
But the court refused to give the instruction so prayed, hot being
willing to certify that the evidence so itated as aforesaid is all the
evidence-adduced, by the parties in~the said, cause, and because such
an instruction would take the cause from the donsideration of the
jury, without giving the petitioner the benefit of the presumptibn
which the jury might draw from the facts so given in evidence. To
which-refiusal the defendants except, and this their bill of exceptions.
is signed, sealed, and ordered to.be enrolled, this 18th of May, 1842.

W. CRACII,.

[L. S.]

JAMEs S. MonS_,L. [L. s.]
Upon the refusal of the court below-to grant the prayers -contained
in the first and second bills f exceptions; the case came up before
this court.
JN'ale and Bradley, for the.plaintifi inerror.
Brent, sen., for the defendant.
.N'eale madc the following points:
1. That the court erred, in allowing the deed of manumission to'
be given in evidence on the part of the petitioner for the purpose of
establishing her fight to freedem; .that said deed wag, and is, wholly
imoperative-to establish or vest in -thepetiti6ner any such right.
2. Thit the court erred' in aloiwing evidence to go to the jury
tending to establish a reputation of freedom in Sarah, the.petitioner's
mother, as competent evidence to establish the-petitoner's right of
freedom, the latter basing hdr right 'on thd said deed of manumission.
3. That the court erred in refusing to give the instruction- prayed
for in the second bill of exceptions4. That the court erred in hecompanying their refusal to grant the
prayer, in the second bill, with-a refubal to certify that the evidence
contained in the first bill of exceptions.was all the evidence 'adduced.
in the causie, without at the same time stating that there was other

492

SUPREME

COURT.

Adams et al. r. Raberts.
evidence adduced and not inserted in the first bill, and also showing
what that evidence was,, and what it tended to prove.
5. That .the court erred in the further reason they gave for refusing
the prayer of second bill, yiz. :'" c because such an instruction would
take the cause from the consideration of the jury, without giving the
petitioner the benefit of the presumption which the jury might draw
from thfe facts so given in evidence."
6. That the verdict of the jury is wholly irregular and void, in not
responding to the issue submitted for them to try3 and in not finding
damages for the petitioner, even though they might have been nominal: And was such a verdict on. the issue tried, that the court were
not competent to award a judgment thereon "that the petitioner
recover her freedom'-and that the court erred in entering such a
judgment thereon.
He contended that the deed of manumission was not valid,'because
it was not acknowledged in the place where the grantor resided.
His residence was in the District of Columbia, and the deed was
acknowledged in Fairfax county, Virginia. The law of Virginia
requires it to be .acknowledged in the county where the 'grantor
himself resides. Old Revised Code, act of 1792, p. 191, sect. 36;
2 Leigh, 312.
A nuncupative will cannot emancipate. I Robinson's Practice,

428.
All negroes are presumed to be'slaves.
141; Wheeler on Slavery, 31, 395.

1 Henning and Mumford,

Brent, for defendant in error, said:
The case in Henning and Mumford does not bear out the last
position of the opposite bounsel. He then argued the following
points:
1. That there is no-6rror in the judgment of the court below, as
rendered; and if there be, it cannot be corrected or reversed here, in
the form presented by the record.
"2. That there is no error in' the refusal of the court below to give
the first instruction asked by the plaintiffs in error.
3. That the court below was right in refusing the second instruction.
4. That by the law of Virginia of 1782, in foice in the county of
Alexandria, in theDistrict of Columbia, all negroes are, prirhaizacie,
free, unless. they come within the exceptions of that law; and that

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

4
493:

Adams et al. v. Roberts.

the onus probandi, as to the exceptions, rests upon those who 'laim,
them as slaves.
5. That the defendant here, if not entitled to her freedom under
the law named in the last reason assigned, is entitled to it by birth,:
being the child of a free woman at her birth.
6. That the mother of the defendant m this court was*s free woman,
and passed as such, and was so recognised from the 1st of January,
1814, to her death in 1836-a. period of twenty-two years; and in
the absence of positive proof of emancipation, the law presumes a
-deed of emancipation to have been made, after so long a lapse .of
time.
7. That by the law of Virginia a deed of manumission may be
made by -an instrument of writing under seal, attested by two witnesses, and proved in any court, &c. ; and that there is no time
limited for-its proof, and no form or manner pointed out in which it
is tobe proved ; and that it may be done on the trial of the suit for.
freedom, or At any other tine, or in any other form..
8. That a deed of'manumission, acknowledged by a non-resident'
in the court of the county where the slave resides, is good and binding in law. And
9. That if the defendant, Julia Roberts, was entitled to her freedom in any way. whatever, and the same appears by the evidence in
the record, she is free, and the instruction asked for in the first bill
of exceptions, if it had been given by the court, could not benefit the
plaintiffs in error, and its refusal is no ground for a reversal of the
judgment.
In support of the 5th point, he said that Sarah, the mother of Julia,
was free on the Ist day of January, 1814, and that Julia must-have
been born after that day; because she was twenty-eight years old
when the trial took place, in May, 1842. Besides, the lapse of twelfty
years authorizes a presumption of a deed of manumission. I Hill's
S. C. Rep. 222; 2 Hill's S. C. Rep. 593; 7 Leigh, 702
There is no form prescribed for the instrument itself, the acknowledgment, or the proof. 2 Leigh, 311* 312, 318.
The original deed of manumission was not, produced at the, trial;
but there was what was admitted to be.a true copy. It was permitted to be read in evidence, and it is too late to object to it now.
The bill 'of exceptions does not object to its admissibility as evidence.
The law of Virginia ought to be liberally construed. 6 Randolph,
2T

SUPREME COURT.
Adam-s et al. v. Roberts.

652, 657; 7 Leigh, 701, 714; 4 Leigh, 260, 264; 2 Leigh, 320;
2 Call, 270; 1 Robinson's Practice, 431.
As to Summerss right to emancipate, see 8 Peters, 238; 6 Gill
and Johns. 143.
Bradley, for plaintifls in error; in reply.
Virginia has taken away from non-residents the power of manumitting slaves within the state. There is no one to support them
or provide for them.
If the d~ed was not acknowledged in the court of the county or
corporation, it cannot be evidence. 2 Leigh, 314; 6 Mumford, 201;
7 Leigh, 689.
Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the court.
We think the court below did no err in refusing to give the instructions asked for by the defendants in either the first or second
bill of exceptions.
By the statute of Virgihia two modes are pointed out in which
manumissioh by deed can be accomplished.
1. The instrument in writing under the hand and seal of the party
must be attested and proved in the County or Corporation Court by
two witnesses; or
2. It must be acknowledgdd by the party in the court of the county
where he or she resides.
Either of these modes is effectual. It is stated in the bill-of exceptions, and is not contradicted, that the county of Alexandria was made
on the 27th of February, 1801, being composed of what had been
a part of the county of Fairfax, in Virginia, and that.Summers owned
200 -acres of woodland in Fairfax county, and was interested in
another tract of land also in said county, upon which there was a
house. But it does not appear how far within the line of the District
the actual residence of Summers was thrown, whether the dividing
line ran through his farm, separating the house from the great body
of the land, or whether the land upon which his slaves iesided was
a separate estate, detached from his residence. But it sufficiently
appears that up to February, 1801, Summers had been accustomed to
resort to the court of 'Fairfax county, for the transaction of business
of every description, and that the jurisdiction under which he livedthen
became changed, without its having been done by his removal from
where he had lived before.

JANUARY

TERM, 1844.

4.

Adams et aL v. Roberts.

The claimant in support of her freedom alleges, that Summers
executed an instrument under his hand and seal on the 30th December, 1801, to which'the names. of Charles Little and Harrison Cleaveland are attached' as witnesses. Upon the 18th of January, 1802,'by
a copy admitted to be a copy of that instrument, and not objected to
whenoffered as evidence, it appears that Summers wentinto court in
Fairfax county and acknowledged it to be a deed of manumission.
The court ordered it to be recorded, and it was done. There is
nothing in the record to show whether or not the two witnesses were
present with him in court when he made this acknowledgment. If
they were, the case would clearly fall withn the first miode pointed
out by the statute, being an instrument in writing, under the hand and
seal of the party, attested and proved.in the -County Court by two witnesses.: It is notsaid in what court the attestation and proof must he
made, in the case of a non-resident owning slaves resident in Virginia,
but we presume that in such a case the attestation and proof ought to
be made in the County Court where the slave resides.
It is not necessary hov.ever to decide that question in this case,
because the proof to substantiate and give validity to the instrument
does not exist, but we have recited the preceding.faQts, because they
are evidence in the case, and are connected with the paper purporting
to be a copy of a deed of manumission, which was introduced to sustain the claimant's demand for freedom. This then is the eopy of 'an
original paper not denied to be such by the plaintiffs in error, and
the questibn occurring is, how ought-it to have been considered in
the court below as a part of the evidence in the cause, with reference
to the instructiobs asked? In the first instruction, the court is asked
to put the case, that the deed of emancipation so as. aforesaid made,
executed, and acknowledged and recorded, did not entitle the petitioner to freedom, under the statute in such cases made and provided
by an act, entitled an act reducing into one thd several acts concerning slaves, free negroes, and mulattoes, passed December 17, 1792.
The paper in evidence was the copy of an original, the execution
of which by the grantor was not denied. It was received as evidence
upon proof of the loss of the original. It was forty years old. No
proof of its execution wasnecessary; its antiquity proved it. But, it
is said, the proof and attestation before the court in Virginia, to
give it validity, was wanting, and that it appeared to be so upon the
face of the paper given in evidence. That might, or might not be so.
But it was a fact in controversy between the parties, as much so as

SUPREME COURT.
Adams et q1. v. Roberts.

any other fact in the case, and the court could not be asked to instruct
the jury upon their belief of another single fact, namely, the residence
of Simon Summers in the county of Alexandria, that the party was
.not entitled to freedom under the statute of Virginia. The instruction as -asked excludes all the other evidence, and puts the legal
issue proposed on it upon a single fact. . It excludes also, all presumptions which the jury might make from the other evidence in
connection with the antiquity of the paper which was before them.
The court did not err in refusing to give the first instruction.
The second instruction asked for by the defendants in the court
below was, that the testimony, although believed by the jury. was not
sufficient in law to entitle the petitioner to her freedom.
If 'the jury believed all the evidence offered, the case -would have
stood thus: Susan the mother of Julia was to become free on the first
of'January, 1814. If they believed thatfact, and also believed that
Julia was born after that day, she was the child of a free woman and
of course free herself. The trial took place at May term, 1842. Evidence was offered to show that Julia was then about twenty-eight
years'old. If she was twenty-eightyears of age at any period between
the first of January and May, 1842, of courseshe was born after-her
mother had become free. The instruction asked the court to deprive
the jury of the power of saying, she was born in that interval. This
was a fact especially proper for the consideration of the jury, and the
court could not have giventheinstruction askedby the defendant; that
the testimony was not sufficient in law to entitle the petitioner to her
freedom, without assuming the tact, that Julia was not born in the
interval already mentioned. We think the court did not err in refusing the instruction.
The judgment of the court below is affirmed.
O1WER.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Columbia, holden in and for/the county of Alexandria, and was argued
by counsel. On consideration whereof, It is now here ordered and
adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court
in this cause be, and the same is hereby affirmed with costs.

