2M8

SUPREME COURT.
Buckhannan et al v, Tinnin et al.

in such case made and provided, and was argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, It is the opinion of this court, that satisfaction
should not be entered oh the execution offierifacias, which was sued
out in this case on the 4th of June, 1840, in favour of the said Rbbert
Thompson against the said Thomas Griffin and Hugh Ervin for the
sum of $1740 02, with interest and costs: and farther, that the execution off.fa., which was sued out against the said Thomas Griflin
and Hugh Ervin on the 6th day of November, 1841, should not be
quashed: and that tbe motion of .the plaintiff in the Circuit Court
should be overruled. Whereupon it is now here ordered and ad-'
judged that it be so certified to the said Circuit Court.

BucKuANNA , HAGAN AND CO., FOR TE USE OF GEoio BucxwA.&zN,
PLAINTIFFS, V. WLIAM TrsNm, RALPH CAMPBELL, AND JOHN G.
ANDnEws, DEFENDANTS.
if the marshal receives bank-notes in discharge of an execution, and the plaintiff sanctions rt, either expressedly or impliedly, he is bound by it, and a motion
to quash the return ought to be refused.

THrs teasb came up on a certificate of division in opinion, from the
Circuit Court of the United States for the southem district of Mississippi.
Buckhannan, Hagm and Co. recovermd a judgment in the court
below against Tinnin, and issued afierifadas on the 16th December,
1839. A part of the money was received in bank-notes, under the
circumstances stated , in the motion to quash that part of the return,
upon which motion the judges were divided in opinion.
It was as follows
This was a motion made by plaintiff in the above entitled case, to
qquash so much of the marshal's return on an execution of fieri facias,
which issued from the clerk's office of this court, on the 16th day of
December, 1839, in favour of Buckbannan, Hagan and Co., use of
George Buckhannan, against William Tinnin, Ralph Campbell, and
John G., Andrews, for the sum of $4492 54, with interest from 23d
of May, 1839, until paid, together with costs, as is in the words and
figures following, to wit:

* JANUARY TERM, 1844.

259

Buckhannan et al. v. Tinnin--et al.

"cReceived on this execution thirteen hundred dollars, in Union
money, 17th February, 1840."1
And in suppor of said motiQri, said execution offiri facizs was
read in evidence to the court, which execution offierifacias, together
'with the return and endorsements thereon, which were also read in
evidence to the court, are in the words and figures following,
to wit:_
UN1TED STATES OF AmmICA,

Sidern district of Aississippi.

S

The President of the United States, to the marshal ofthe southern
district df Mississippi, greeting: Whereas, at the Ma. term, 1839,
of tne Circuit CQurt of the United.States for said dstridt, George
Buckhanni.in John Hagan, and. Edward Whittlesey, under the firm
of Buckhanhan, Hagan and Co., for the use"of George Buckhannan,
recovered judgment against William Tinnin for the sum of $4492 54,
with interest thereon at the rate of eight per cent. per annum from
the 23d day of May, A..D. 1839, until paid, together with costs
and charges by said plaintiffs in and about their suit in that behalf
expended, whereof the said defendant -was convicted, -as appears
to us of record. An.d whereas, on the nineteenth day of June,
A. D. 1839, an execution of.fieri facias issued frofn our said court,
directed to the marshal of said district, for the amount of said judgment, interest, and costs as aforesaid, which execution was levied on'
certain property of said defendant, which property was .'suffered 'toremain in possession of said defendant, upon'executing a forthcoming'
bond according to law, with Ralph Campbell and John G, Andrews
as security, wich.said bond was returned to our said court, at the
Novembe term thereof, A. D. 1839, by the marshal "aforesaid forfeited, and thereby has the force and bffect of a judgment, according
to the statute in such case made and provided, as well against the
said sureties as against the defendant to said original execution fbr
said debt, interest and costs. Now. therefore,'you are hereby com-,
manded, that of the goods and chattels, lands and tenements,'of -ilfe
said William Tinnin, Ralph Campbell, and John d. Andrews, late
of your district, you cause to be made the amount of said judgmeAt, interest, and costs, so recovered as aforesaid; also the sum
of $89 67 including" the costs acrrued since the emanation of said
execution, and that you. have the said moneys before our said
Circuit Court, at a term to be held on the first Monday.of May

-260

SUPREME COURT.
Buckhannan et al. v. Tinnin et al.

next, to render to the said plaintiffs; and have, also,'then and there
this writ.
WiTN'ss the Honourable Roger B. Taney, Chief Justice of the
Supreme Court of the United States, at -Jackson, the first
[L. s.] Monday of November, A. "D.1839, and in the 64th year of
the independepee of the United States.
Issued the 16th day of December, 1839.
WM.' Buis, Clerk.
Endorsed. "No security of any kind is to be taken.
Wk. Bvnrxs, Clerk.
MVarshal'; Pieurn.
Received on this execution thirteen hundred dollars in Union
money, 17th February, 1840, and-balance suspended by order of
plaintiffs.
W. M. Gwnr,
arshal,
By J. F. Coox, Depty.'
Fees.
Com'n $1300
.
.
.
$19 00
J corn's on $3282 21 .
.
34 32
Levy, ent'g and ret'g
.
.
6 50
Mileage
.
1 50
$61 32
It was admitted that the words- Union money," in said return,
signified notes of the Mississippi Union Bank, and that on the 17th
day of Febraary, 1840, said notes were worth but seventy-five cents
to the dollar.
Which was all the evidence offered on the trial of said motion,
-Which motion. was contested by the said William, Tinnin, Ralph
Campbell, and John G. Andrews; and on the questio, whether
that portion of said marshal's return, which is in the words and
figures following, to wit:
;Received on this execution thirteen hundred dollars in Union
,
money, 17th February, 1840, ' should be quashed, the judges were
opposed in opinion, which is ordered to be certified to the Supreme
Court of the United States for decision.
The cause was submitted upon printed argument by Duncan and
Holt, for the plaintifis in the court below.
On a certificate to the Supreme Court, from the judges of the

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

261

Buckhannan et al. %'Tinnin et aL

United States Circuit Court for the southern district of Mississippi,'
that idthis case they were opposed in opinion.
Upon afierifaciasfrom said court in favour of the plaintifi against'
the defendants, dated 16th December,. 1839, returnable on the firt
Monday in May, 1840, the marshal, on the 17th day of February,
1840, without the assent of the plaihtith, rdeei.ced $1300 in notes
of the Mississippi Union Bank, then depreciated 25 per cent.
The marshal returned that he bad received'Union m6ney; and the
plaintiffs moved to quash so much .of the return; and it was admitted
on the trial that the Union money ws'bank-notes of the Union Bank,
and that those notes were depreciated twenty-five per tent. The
District Court had uniformly. quashed such returns, and the Supreme
Court of the state has repeatedly quashed such returns. The circuit
judge, differing in opinion, brings the question before this court.
Plaintiffs argue that the.marshal had no right to recei e ,any property in discharge of the execution, because the process required him
to make money. The authority of the marshal was special, and derived from the law of the land, and the defendants and all others had
notipe of the extent of the powers delegated by the law to the.officer;
and if -hetook any thing but dollArs, which in legal infendment must
be gold and silver, he' was abusing his trust and acting without
authority.. The marshal was bound to bring into court the 'dollars,
not property.
Plaintiffs rely on the following authorities:, 4 Howard;40;
5 Howard, 246, 621-624;. 9 .Johns. 26.1, 262; 1 Cowen, 46;
4 Cowen, 553 ; 2 J. J.Marshall, '70, 71; 2 North Carolina Rep.'
529 ; Dudley's Law and Equity R. 356; Martin's L. Acts, 205.
Upon the manner of executing process, and the forms of process
and returns, and their effects.in any state, the decisions of the Supreme
Courts of such state are entitled to great *eight; ifnot conclusive..
Mr. Justice DANIEL delivered the opinion pf the court.
The printiples ruled in the case of.Thompson v. Griffin and Ervin
as those which define the duties and should govern the conduct of
the marshal in levying executions committed to his hands, have been
here,again considered and approved. - They-would be decisive also
of the case now under *consideration, but for two,points of difference
between this and the case of Thompson'. Griffin et al. These two
points- arise, Ist, upon the.time intervening betVein the return of the
marshal and the plaintiff's motion, a tendine, to show an acquies-

SUPREME COURT.
Buckhannan et al. v. Tinnin et al.

cence by the plaintiff; and, secondly, upon the additional evidence
in this case amounting to proof of approbation or sanction by the
plaintiff, express or implied, of the conduct of the marshal. In
Thompson v. Griffin et al. application was made to the cotrt at the
earliest practicable period to set aside the marshal's return, and there
was throughout no fact or circumstance tending to show a recognition, by the party, or a moment's acquiescence by him in the irregularity complained of. In the present case, the return of the marshal
showing the receipt by him of the depreciated bank-notes bears date
on the 17th February, 1840; the motion to 'quash was made in
May, 1842. Thus an interval Qf more than two years was permitted
to elapse between the return and the motion; a period during which
the party must be presumed to have been cognisant of fhe return, a
public and official proceeding to be found amongst the files and records
of the court to which access might at all times have been had. If
this fact stood alone,.unassociated with and unexplained by any
other, it would of itself imply at least, on the part of the plaintiff,
laches and negligence in the prosecution of his interests, if not an
assent by him to the acts of the officer. This fact of time, however,
is by no means solitary or isolated in the evidence in this cause.
The language of the return certainly imports no objection by the
plaintiff or by any other to the receipt of the $1300, or to the medium
in which they were collected: so far from this, when taken altogether, that language strongly implies, if it does not directly declare,
that the plaintiff, or whosoever he was that took control of the matter, approved of the proceeding so far as it had gone, and objected
only to a collection of the residue of the execution at that time. It
should not be lost sight of either, in construing this language, that no
exception to any one kind of medium, or preference for any other, is
indicated in the inhibition as stated; it is a simple direction to proceed no farther. It cannot be objected to the return in question, that
it is the act or declaratiMu of the officer whose conduct in making it
is impeached. Although the act of that officer, it is a sworn return,
and must stand until falsified. It is introduced by the plaintiff himself in support of his motion; is indeed the only evidence he has
adduced to sustain it: he relies on this return, and in so doing must
take it entire; he cannot be permitted to garble it. The return must
be received as stating the truth. It must be received in all its parts;
and if so, it comes (especially when viewed in connection with the
interval between the dates of that return and of the motion in this

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

263

Matheson's Admin. v. Grant's Admin.
case,).on the part of the plaintifi an acquiescence if not a direct sanction, which, at this day, this court is unwilling to disturb. Great
wrong might, by so late an interference, be visited upon the officer,
who may have been reposing upon the conduct of this plaintiff; and
the danger of a result like this is enhanced by the total absence of any
thing like proof to show that.the plaintiff ever refused to receive the
amount collected by the'marshal, and maynot have actually received
and applied it to his own use, or at what rate of value if so received,
This court is of the opinion upon the case certified to them, that the
return of the marshal of the 17th of February, 1840, should not,
under the facts disclosed in this case, be quashed.
ORDER.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the Southern District
of Mississippi, and on the point and question on which the judges
of the said Circuit Court were opposed in opinion, and which was
certified to this court for its opinion, agreeably to the act of Congress
in such case made and provided, and was argued by counsel. On
consideration whereof, It is the opinion of this court that the return
of the marshal of the 17th of February, 1840, should not, under the
facts disclosed in this case, be quashed. Whereupon, it is now here
ordered and adjudged by this court, that it be so certified to the said

Circuit Court.

JOHN MuRPHY AND JoHN DARRINGTON, ADMINISTRATORS OF WILLIAM

MATHtESON, DECEASED, PLA11TIFFS N ERROR, v. ANGuS STEWART,
ADmINIsTRAToR OF ALEXANDER GRANT.
The court below, on motion, arrested a judgment for the plaintiff, after verdict,
but without entering also that he took nothing by his writ.
The declaration contained two counts; in the first, the plaintiff sued as administrator; and in the second, in his own personal right. A general verdict was
given, and the judgment arrested on account of the misjoinder of counts.
Afterwards, and before a writ of .error was brought, a motion was made by the
plaintiff to set aside the order arresting the judgment, and for leave to enter a
voUe prosequi upon the secoiid count.
An affidavit was filed by the plaintiff's counsel, stating that the only evidence
offered on the trial was given on the part of the plaintiff, and that the defend-

