74

SUPREME COURT.
Stockton et al. v. Bishop.

Court was only for .$1720, yet that the interest on that sum added
thereto would make it exceed $2000. To which Mr. Ogden rejoined,
that the right of the party to a writ 'of error, was controlled by the
amount at the rehdition o" the judgment and could not be enlarged
b time. On consideration whereof, It is the opinion of this court
that where the plaintiff in the court below claims $2000 or more, and
the ruling of the court is for a less sum, that he is entitled to a writ o*f
error: but that the defendant in the court below is not entitled to
such writ where the judgment against him is for a less sum than
$2000 Pt the, time of the rendition thereof-that this is the settled
practice of this court. Whereupon it ii now here ordered and
adjudged by this court that this writ of error be and the same is
hereby dismissed for the want of jurisdiction
Feby'uary 3d.

LUcIus

W.. STOcKTON AND DANIEL MOORE, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V.
HARRiET BIsHoP, DEFNDANT.

An execution, issued in the court below, atter a writ of error has been sued out,
a bond given, and a citation issued, all in due time, may be quashed either in
the court below or this.court-these' things operating as a stay of execution.

fN the Circuit Court of the United States for, the western district
of Pennsylvania, Harriet Bishop, the defendant in error aid a citizen
of the state of Ohio, obtained a judgment against Stockton and Moore
for $6500 damages and costs, on the 7th of December, 1843.
On the 15th of December, 1843; Stockton and Moore entered into
a bond with Hugh Campbell as sdr"ety, for the prostcution of a wrii
of error to this court, which, was approved by the judge, and, on the
same day, a wrif of 'error and citation were sued out. -On the 16th
of December, 1843,'the citation was returned served on R. Biddle,
Esq., attorney of defendant in error.
On the 11th of January, 1844, the plaintiff below sued out a writ
of ieri facis Iand placed it in the hands of the marshal, returnable
on the 20th of May.
Coxe moved to quash the writ of fterifacia, as having been irregularly issued.

JANUARY TERM, 1544.
Stockton

et al. v. Bishop.

75
-

Mr. Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the court.
Upon the facts stated in the application, there is no doubt that the
writ of error, bond, and citation, having been given in dud season
according to law, operated as a stay of execution, and that a'suversedeas to thefieii facis ought to issue from this court, to supersede
and quash the same,, as prayed for in the motion. Indeed, the issuing of the execution was wholly irregular, and it might have been
quashed by an application to the court below. But it is equally
competent for this court to do the ,same thing in furtherance of the
purposes of justice. The motion is, therefore, granted, and a supersedeas will be issued accordingly.
ORDER.

UNITED STATES OF AMERcA, ss.:
The President of the United States of .America
To the Honourable the Judges of the Circuit Court of the United
Statesi for the western district of Pennsylvania, anfd to the
Marshal of the United States for the said district, greeting:
WHEREAS, lately in the said Circuit Court,
before you, or
some of you,'in a cause between Harriet Bishop, plaihtiff, and: Lucius
W. Stockton and Daniel Moore, defendants, judgment was rendered
by the said: Circuit Couit on the '7th December, 1843, -infavour of
the said plaintiff and against- the said defendants, fdr the sum of
$.q500 and-1costs of suit, and on the 15th December, 1843, the aforesaid defendants, with sufficient s.ecurity, filed their bond in error,
which was approved by the'judge of the District Court, so as to
operate as a supersedeas, the defendants having sued out a wiit of
error in due form and time, and a citation having been regularly
taken out, served upon, the -defendant in error and duly.retune.d,
as by the -inspection of the transcript of the record, of the.said. Circuit
Couit, which was brought into the Supreme Court -of the United
States, bz virtue of a Writ of error, agreeably to the act of Congress
in such cae made,-ind provided, fully and at large appears. , And
whereas, in the present term of January, in the yea- of our Lord, one
thousand eight hundred and forty-four, it is made to appear on affid'avit to the said Supreme Court of the United States, that, notwithstanding the premises, the aforesaid plaintiff in the said Circuit Court'
caused a writ of fierifacias to be issued on the 11th- day of January,'
1844, upon the judgment obtained in said cauie, and to be placed

SUPREME COURT.

76

Porterfield v. Clark.

in the hands of the aforesaid marshal for servie and satisfaction
thereof: Onr consideration whereof, it'is now here -ordered by this
court that a writ of supersedeas be, and the same is hereby awarded
to.be directed *tothe aforesaid marshal; commanding and enjoining
hin and his deputies, to stay every and all proceedings upon the
said writ of fierzfacias, and that he returnthe said execution with
the writ of supersedeasto the said Circuit Court, and that the judges
of the said Circuit Court do cause the said writ of execution to be
quashed,. the same having been unjustly, improvidently, and errone*ously issued out of the said court, at the instance of the said plaintiff.
You, therefore, the marshal of the United States for the western
district of Pennsylvania, are hereby commanded that, from every
and all proceedings on.the said feri facias or in any -wise molesting
the said defendants on the account aforesaid, you entirely surcease,
as being superseded, and that you do forthwith return the said fieri
faios, together with this supersedecs to the said Circuit Court, as
you will answer the'contrary at your peril. And ydu the judges of
the said Circuit Court are hereby commanded that such futher proceedings be had in the premises, in conformity to ihe order of this
court, and as according to right and justice, and the laws of the
United States ought to 'be had, the said execution notwithstanding.
WITNESS the Honourable Roger B. Taney, Chief Justice of the
said Supreme Court, the 13th day of March, in the year of
our Lord one thousand eight hundred and forty-four.
WM. Taos. CARROLL,
Clerk of the Supreme Court of the United States.

W"uLi& "KiNNEzy AND JAMES J. MECHIE, EXECUTORS AND TRusJTEEE
OF ROBERT PORTERPFIELD, DECEASED, V. .MERIWETHER L. CLARK,
WILLIAM

P.

CLARK,

GEORGE

R. H.

R.
, I; CLARK HIS

CLARK, ANP JEFFERSON

CLARK, A MINOR BY THE AFORESAID GEORGE
GUARDIAN,
AND

HEIRS AND DEVISEES OF

ROBERT 0.,

ANN

WILLIAM CLARK, DECEASED,

C.,- GEORGE

W.,

AND

FRANCES

JANE

WOOLFOLK, HEIRS OF GEORGE WOOLFOLK, DECEASED, AND OTHERS.

An act of the legislature of Virginia, passed in May, 1779, "establishing a landoffice, and, ascertaining the tetms and manner of granting waste and'unap.
propriated lands," contained, amongst other exceptions, the 'following, viz.:

