SUPREME COURT.

NATHANIEL

BURWELL,

CAWOOD, WILLIAM.
.VILEE

AND APPEMLANT, V. DANiEL
GARDNER, EXECUTOR OF JOSEPH MANDE-

COMPLAINANT

0.

DECEASED, AND JOHN WEST, DEFENDANTS.

Although by the general rul6 of law, every partnership is dissolved by the death
'of one of the partners, where the articles of do-par:nership do not stipulate,
otherwise, yet either one may, by his will, providd for the continuance of the
partnership after his death; and in making'this provision, he may bind his
•whole estate 6r only that portion of it already embarked in the t5artnership.
But it will require the most clear and unambiguous language, demoistrating in
the most positive manner that the testator intended to make Lis general assets
liable for-all debts contracted in the continued irade after his death, to justify
the dourt in.arriying at such a-conclusion
Where it appears, fiom the context of a. will, that a testator intended tQ disp6se
of his whole estate, and to give-his residuary legatee a substantial, beneficial
interest, such legatee will take real as well a, personal estate, although the
word "deviseer' be not used.

THis was an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of the.
Ubited States for the District of Columbia, holden in and for the'
county of Alexandria, sitting as a court of equity.
The case was this.
In July, 1836, Joseph Mandeville and Daniel Cawood, both of
the town of Alexandria,'entered into'articles ofco-partnership, under
the firm of Daniel Cawood and Company, -which was to continue
ntil the 1st of September, 1838. Numerous stipulations were made,
whichit is not necessary to-mention.
In June, 1837, Mandeville made hii will, which began thus:
"I, Joseph Mandeville, of' Alexandria, in the District of Columbia, thankful -to Divine Providence, which has ever rewdrded, my
industryan blessed rap with a fair portion of health, do hereby
direct-the disposal which I desire bf my earthly remains, after my
decease; and'of such real and personal property as I may possess
when called hence to a future state."
After sundry legacies, he-said: c If my personal property should
not 'cover the entire amount of legacies I have or may give, my executors'will dispose of so much' of my real estate as-will fullypay
them,?' and then added: ,
"John West, 'formerly of' Alexandria, now of Mobile, I hereby
make my'residuary legatee; recommending him to consult with, and
follow the advice of, my executors in all concerning what I leave to
him."

JANUARY TERM, 1844.
Burwell v. Mandeville's

561

Ejecutor.

Robert J. Taylor and WilliamC. Gardner -were appointed execu-

tors.
In July, 1837, the following codicil was -added:

-

Codicil to the prpeeding will, made this-eleventh day of July,'1837.,
It is my will that my interest in the co-partnership subsisting
between Daniel Cawood and myself, under ,the firm ofDaniel
Cawood and Company, shall be continued therein until the expira-tion of the term limited by the articles betweenus; the business to
be conducted by. the said Daniel Cawood, and,the profit or loss to
.bedistributed inthe manner the said articles provide.
In witness whereof.I have hereto subscribed my name.
JosEPH MANDEVLLE.,

Shortly after adding the above codicil, Mandeville died, in July,
1831. Taylor announced the executorship, and. Gardner obtained
letters testamentary upon the estate.
Cawood and Company continued to carry on the business as-beford.
In July, f838, the following note was given and draft drawn:
Dolls. 80.
th July, 1838.
Thirty days after date, we promise to pay to the order of Mr. N.
Burwell, eight hundred dollars f6r value received, negotiable and
payable at the -Bank of Potomau.
Dnmn CAWOOD and Co.
.Alez 'tdria,289h July, 1838.
Dolls. 1000.
On the 31st inst. pay to the order of Mr.Win. I-Mount.one thousand dollars for ialue received, and charge to account.of yours.NATH'L BtURWLL.

To Daniel Cawood- and Co., Alexandria, D. C. "
,
Accepted,- ..
DA', CA-wooD and Co.
Neither the note nor draft was paid at maturity, and both were
protested.,In December, 1838, Burwell, the appellant ir the present case,
filed a' bill on the equity side' of the Circuit Court' against Cawood
and Gardner, reciting the above facts and praying relief.
In June, 1839i Gardner answered. He admitted those facts, but
denied that the assets in his hands as executor were liable to the
payment of the'debts of the firm of Daniel Cawood lnd Company,
anid required the coninlainant to make proof of it. He furthei alleged
a deficiency of per~bnal assets.
VOL. H.-7i

562

SUPREME COURT.
Burwell v. Mandeville6s

Executor.

In October, 1839, Cawood filed his answer, admitting, in substance, the facts set forth in the bill, but neither admitted nor denied
the insolvency of the firm.
The case was referred to a commissioner with instructions to adjust
the accounts of the executor and also of the firm of Cawood and
Company.
-"In May, 1841, the commissioner made an elaborate report, the
particulars of which it ik not necessary to state.
In November, 1841, on the motion of John West, claiming to be
interested in the subject-matter of the suit, it was ordered by the
court that the complainant have-leave to amend his bill and make
John West a defendant. ,The case was again referred'to a commissioner with instructions to state, settle, and report to the court the
account of William 'C. Gardner as executor of Joseph Mandeville,
-deceased, stating the personal estate of the said Mafdeville left by
him at his death, and how much. thereof has come to the hands of
the executor, the value- of it, and how the same have been disposed
of; particularly whether any of the legacies have been paid out of
the personal estate, and to -vhat amount; and ofso the value of the
personal assets still in the hands of the executor; and that he report
any special matter that he may deem pertinent, or either party may
require.
In December, 1841, the complainant, under the above order, filed
'his amended bill, making West a party.
In April, 1842, West demurred to the bill, because the other legatees of Mandeville were not made defendants, and because the complainant had not, by his bill, shown a case in which he was entitled
to relief.
In May, 1842, the commissioner made a report, under the above
referencei stating that Gardner, as executor, had then in his hands,
assets, amounting to 81036 70.
In June, 1842, the demurrer was argued, and the court being of
opinion that the general assets of the estate of the said Joseph Mandeille, deceased, in the hands of his executor, William C. Gardner,
one of the said d~fendants, are not chargeable with any debt contracted by the defendant Cawood, in the name of the firm of Daniel
Cawood and Co., after the death of the former. partner of the firm,
the said Joseph Mandeville; and being of opinion that the defendant's said demurrer is well taken and fully sustained in argument,
and that the complainant's bill contains no iftatter, allegation, or

JANUARY TERM, 1844.
Burwell v. Mandevii!e's

563

Executor.

charge laying any foundation for equitable relief in the premises, dismissed the bill with costs.
The complainant, Burwell, appealed from this decree.
.Neale and Coxe, for the appellant.
Smith and Jones, for the defendants.
iYeale, fpr the appellant, contended,
1. That all the necessary and proper, parties were bef9re the coart
below.
2. That John West was not a necessary or proper party, he being
the residuary legatee of the late Joseph Mandeville, and the bill only
sought to make the personal estate of Mandeville liable.
3. That the surviving partner being insolvent, the creditors were
well warranted in filing their bill in equity against the executor of
Mandeville and the surviving partner.
4. That the general assets of thle estate of .VMandeville are liable
for the debts contracted, as well after as before Mandeville's death,
by the late firm of Daniel Cawood and Co.
5. That Mandeville's real estate descended. upon his heirs-at-law.
If the surviving partner be insolvent, the effects in the hands of the
legal representatives of the deceased partners are liable in. equity for
the partnership debts. Such debts are both joint and several, and
equally a charge upon the assets of the deceased partner, and against
the person and estate. of the surviving partner. 3 Kent's Commentary, 57'; Hamersly v. Lambert, 2 Johns. Ch. Rep. 508; Devaynes v. Noble, 1 Merivale's Rep. 539; 3 Leigh, 548.
A creditor of a firm may sue the surviving partner and the.legal
representative of a deceased partner, for payment out of the assets of
the deceased partner, without showing the insolvency of thb, surviving partner. Wilkinson and Henderson, 1 Mylne and Keene's Rep.
582.
And relief may be had in equity against the legal representative of
a deceased partner, if the surviving partner be insolvent. Jenkins
and De Groot, 1 Caines's Cases in Error, 122.
In this case, Clawood, the surviving partner, is notoriously insolvent.
A joint creditor may file a bill in equity against the legal representative of a deceased partner, although the stirviving partiner be not
insolvent. 'He is not compelled to sue the survivor in 'the first instance. Mylne and Keene's Rep. 582; I"Merivale's Rep. 529, 563;
Collyer on Partnership, 343, 346.

SUPREME COURT.
Burwell v. Mandeville's Executor.

From the record in the cause, it appears that Mandeville died in
July, 1837, more than a year before the time, when the partnership
by its terms expired, to wit: the 1stSeptember, 1838.
Had Mandeville lived until the 1st September, 1838, and the debt
of the complainant been contracted before that date, there can be no
doubt, that on failure of partnership funds to pay the claim, the separate property of both partners would be liable for the payment of it.
If so, does not the'codicil to Mandeville's will place the creditors
subsequently to his death, and before the 1st September, 1838, (when
the post mortem partnership expired,) on'the same footing that they
would'have been had Mandeville lived until the 1st of September,
1838?
If this was not the intention of Mandeville, when he added the
codicil to his will; then, in effect it was a fraud upon the public; for
it was the general opinion where the post ortem partnership was
carried on, that Mandeville's estate, or the general assets of his estate,
were bound in common 'with the company or social funds.
By the codicil to his will, Mandeville directs that his interest in
the co-parthership of 'Daniel .Cawood and himsel under the firm of
Daniel Cawood and Co., shall be contirued therein until the expiration of the time limited by the articles of co-partnership. The business to be conducted by Daniel Catwood, and the profit and loss to be
distributed in the manner the'articles provide.
The articles of co-partnership do not state what is the amount of
capital put in by either party, all it states is the money or goods then
furnished or that might thereafter be put in by either party, shall stand'
to his credit in account current, and bear interest-ahd all profits and
losses to be equaljy divided:
If, then, the articles of co-partnership would hatve bound the -generail assets of Mandeville had he lived, until the 1st September, 1838,
(assuming that at that time the firm was insolhent,) then we contend
that the codikil makes his estate equally liable for all debts contracted
by Daniel Cawood and Co., prior to the 1st September, 1838,
although Mandeville died-in July, 1837. Because, if he could bind
his estate by deed while living, so could he, by ivill, after his deathand in this case the codicil to his will affirms the' obligation and
continues his liability under the deed of co-parmrship, until the 1st
September, 1838. It is conceded, that he might have limited his
liability, either in the articles of co-partnership or in the codicil to his
will, but not having done so in either', and coupling the two papers

JANUARY TERM, .1844.
Burell

65

v. Mandeville's Executor.

together, the only' fair construction to be put' upon'them both, makes
his estate generally liable for all debts due from the lite firm of Cawood and Co. prior to 'the 1st September, 1838, less what that firm
is able to pay tovwards their discharge., 7 Peters,, 586.
•Had, the firm of the late DanielCaWood and Co. made money, to
whom'Would the profits have belonged, after payment of Mandeville's
debts and legacies? Clearly and beyoid all doubt, to John West,
the residuary legatee; .and who would have claimed those -profits?
the answer is, lohn West; and he could and, he would have successfully claimed them, for as residuary legatee, he, and he alone, would
have bben entitled to them' under Mandeville's will, and bad must be
the rule which 'vorlks only one way. Thatitle'd, theni to the profits,
with the right to demand then, -and, still more, to coerce their payment if refused, he should, upon principles of equality and justice
sustain lossesif any were made. And it is'worthy of remark that
although Mr. West renixbved to the town of Alexandria immediately.
after Mandeville's death-Lwas present when the will was probated in
the Orphans' 'Court of Alexandria bounty,'September 1837,'and well
knew the contents of Mandeville's will and Codicil thereto--and was
also an' eye-witness to Cawood's proceedings under'the-codicil,'-yet
did he remain entirely silent 'upon the subject, thereby acquiescing
therein, as it 'wodld certainly seem, until' the November term,--1841,
of the Circuit Court 6fAlexahdria'county, when,-for the very first time,
'we were informed that he intended to defeat if he could; all claims
on Mandeville's estate, contracted "wvith the 'firm of Daniel Cawood
and-Co. subsequeit to the death of-Mandeville, howevr& just they'
might be. 'Does he thern come into 'court.with clean hnnds -and for
just purposes?
* Had'he intimated'his'intention, as .her.e stated, before the credits
were given, norie would ever have been given-; for it was perfectly
notorious, to,.6vey peis6n dealing'with' the firm of Daniel Cawood
an. eo., that the surviving partner was utterly insolvent from the.
beginning to the ending of his c6nneetion in business with the late'Mr. Mandeville, unless the busiiess should prove a profitable.one.West being, by the will, the 'recipient of the profits, after payment
of. debts and legacies, 'had a direct interest in 'the- business, and
hiving -such interest, may be looked upon as a quas partner therein,
and consequently his 'right-to the'. residuum of Mandeville's estate is
in sujiordination to the param6u'nt'claims of'bonaftde creditors.- *
The essence of a'partnership consists in the mutual participati6n
3B

SUPREME COURT.
Burwell v. Mandeville's Executor.

of profit and loss ; there can be no partnership without this. If the
testator .byhis will continues the partnership, after 'his death, (as in
this case,) he continues it for the benefit of his representatives ; he
makes them partners with the surviving partner; they are entitled to
a joint participation in the profits, and ought they not, in sheer justice,
to bear their portion of all losses ? For if they did not, the distinctive
features of a partnership would be lost sight of.
Mandeville, byh4is will, directs the partnership subsisting between
him and Cawood to be continued for the period fixed by the articles ; and the profit or loss, of the same, to be shared, as provided
by them. The articles are thus made part of the will. The intention of the testator must govern ; it is the " polar star which is to
guide the decision," and the intention must be gathered from the
testator's language. In this case, there is neither a patent nor latent
ambiguity on the face of the will or the articles of co-partnershipit is therefore clear (judging from the language employed in both)
that Mandeville intended a continuance of the partnership, under the
terms and conditions of the articles, according to their expressed as.
well as legal effect.. They expressly provide for an equal participation in the profits, and an equal burden in all losses; their legal effect
is, to renderliable the general estate of both parties,.to the just claims
of creditors, in.the event of losses. Now if the partnership is continued in the same manner after the testator's death'by his express
directions, as it existed- before, must not his estate be liable to the
demands of subsequent-creditois.?"
If this is not so, then in the event of heavy profits his estate is
entitled :to an equal portion, but if there are losses, however large,
.his estate is exonerated-the whole falls on the surviving partnerruirious to him-and unjust and fiaudulent as to creditors! This nega.tives the idea of a partnership, which is a communion, not of profit
-alone, but alsd of loss. This case is distinguishable from that of
Pitkin and Pitkin, 7 Conn. Reports, 307. The testator in that case
directed, that his interest, consisting of so much, to wit: (here he
specifically ernumerates it,) is to be continued in the firm, after his
death, for the term of four years. His interest, which is thus"continued, is clearly defined, and clearly restricted, and is hot a general
direction of the'continuance of the partnership. This language is too
plain for creditors to misunderstand or misinterpret, and if under such
circumstances they'trust the partnership, which finally proves insolvent, they have no right to look to the general, assets o£ 'the testator,

JANUARY TERM, 1844.
Burwell v. Mandeville's

567

Executor.

for he has-only pledged so much for the partnership engagements, of
which the creditors had due notice, and if they suffer, it is the result
of their own imprudence. The distinction is plain and obvious: one
is a general partnership, wherein the separate estate of each party is
liable; the other, a special partnership, of which creditors'had notice,
and therefore they can only look to those funds specially provided to
meet all losses. Were it otherwise, there would be -no difference
between a general and. special partnership.
But the appellee, in the court below, contended that the demurrer
was well taken and would hold, and cited the following authorities
in support thereof, to wit:-Edwards on Bills and'Pleadings, 123;
1 Johns. Chan. Reports, 438; 1 Sch. and Lefroy, 386; 2 Scb.
and Lefroy, 159; 3 Maddock's Chancery Reports, 791; Mylne and
Keene's Reports, 116. And it was further contended, that upon a,
fair construction of Mr. Mandeville's will, John West is residuary
devisee, and not, as declared by the testator, residuary legatee.
As to a fair construction of the will-is Mr. VVest a residuary
devisee, or residuary legatee?
Mandeville, the"testator, by his ill, makes him, in plain terms, his
residuary legatee, and upon a careful inspection of the whole will it
is not perceived how he is to be considered a residuary devisee.
Mr. Mandeville wag a remarkably intelligent man,-well understood
the true import of words, and if he intended to make Mr. West his
residuary devisee, why did he not say so? Why speak of his
"heirs" if he intended that Mr. West should be his residuary
devisee? If residuary devisee, then there was an end to all heirships, and the reason which he assigned for appointing two executors was just as false as it was clearly absurd. Assumingi then, that
he well understood the. technical meaning of "residuary legatee,"
then Mr. West should not have been made a party-and touching
the construction of wills, we find, in the great case of Thelluson and
Woodford, 4 Ves. jun. 329, that the Master of the Rolls, when
deciding upon that case, makes, among others, these remarks:
" The intention is to be collected from the whole will taken together
Every word is to have its effect. Every word, is to be taken accord.
ing to the natural and common import; and.if words of art are used,
they are to be construed according to the technical sense, unless
upon the whole will it is plain the testator did not so intend."
So in Kennon 'and McRoberts and wife," I Wash. Rep. "130,
the president of the court observes: "cIn Hodgson and Ambrose,

568

SUPREME COURT.
Burwell v. Mandeville's Executor.

-

Doug. 323, a distinction is made which seems to be a sensible
one, to wit: c If the testator use legal phrases, his ihtention should
be construed by legal rules: if he'use those that are common, his
intention, according to the common understanding of the words he
uses, shall be the rule.'"
The above are a few of the many cases that might be adduced,
but they are deemed quite sufficient for the present occasion.
A' to the-authorities relied on:
So far from ousting the court of jurisdiction in this case, they most
conclusively establish it; consequently, they must have been cited
and relied on to sustain that part of the demurrer which objects for
want of proper parties, and as iuch we shall shortl r review them.
Edwards on Bills and Pleading, 123. Inthat case it is said: ccIf
a testator directs his debts to be paid out of his personal property,
and'the deficiency to be made up out of his real estate, and the personal property is not sufficient to pay the debts, a judgment creditor
will have .to make the personal representative and heir-at-law parties." IsMr. West'an heir-at-lawin this case? Again, in the same
book and same page, ccneither the heir-at-law nor the personal representative were parties; in fact, the vill had not been proved; there
was no personal estate, and th executor refused to act, but the Master of the'Rolls (Leach) ordered it to stand, over for administration
with the will annexed and with leave to make the administratoi and
heir parties."
In the present case, has pot the will been proved; the personal
estate ascertained and duly administered, and a deficiency of personal
assets clearly shown?
Where, then, is the analogy ? and was this case decided under the
influence of the statute of the 5 Geo. 2, ch. 7, or was it made upon
common, law principles? This would seem to be a necessary inquiry, because that statate enlarges the remedies of judgment creditors
against the real estate of their debtorg.
The cases of Giffard and Hart, reported in 1 Sch. and Lefroy, 386,
and Plunket and Joice, 2"Sch. and Lefroy, 158, have no application
to the present case, unless it shall first be made clearly to-appear that
the appellee occupies the same ground that he would do were he
the heir-at-law of the late Mr. Mandeville.
Wiser v. Blachly et al., 1 Johns. Chan. Rep. 437. In this case
the chancellor permitted the devisee of Vail to be made a party,
because he had a direct interest in the event of the-suit-was devisee;

JANUARI

TERM, 1844.

569

Burwell v. Mandeville's Executor.

and the bill sought to make'liable the timber on the very land devised
to him. But in the present case, is West devisee? Very diffierent
are the rights of devisees and legatees; a difference too well defined.
and understood to need the slightest-notice on our part. But these
principles have no application to the present case, inasmuch as the
bill does not seek to charge the real assets.
The case Ex parte (farland, 10 Ves. jun. 110 et seg. also relied
on to defeat this claim, has -nobearing upon the inerits of this cause.
There a certain sum., to wit X600, was embarked in the trade by
the testator, and no more; and that trade carried on by the widow
and executrix of the testator, and not by a copartner, under original
articles of copartnership with the testator, wherein no sum is named,
as in this case. In that case, distribution had long been made before
the bankruptcy of the executrix; in this case, none has ever been
made-in that case, the profits of the trade were to be applied fo his
widow's use, and for the maintenance and-education of his children ;
but in this case, the profits, (if any) are" to become a part of Mr. Mandeville's personal estate. Where, then, is the similarity between the
two cases? It scarcely deserves, en 'passant, a notice. The Lord
Chancellor in his decree employs the following language:- in this case," he remarks, c I fear I shall be under the necessity of contradicting the authority of a judge I most highly respect, feeling a strong
opinion that only the property declared to be embarked in the trade,
shall be answerable to the creditors of the triade. If Iam not bound
.by decision, the convenience of mankind requires me to hold, that
the creditors of the trade, as such, have not a claim against the distributed assets, in the hands of third persons under the direction of
the same hill which has-authorized the trade to be carried on for the
benefit of other persons. My opinion upon this case is, that it is
impossible to hold that the trade is to be carried on, perhaps for
a century, *and at the euid of that time -the creditors, dealing with
the trade, are, merely because it is directed by the will to be carried
on, to pursue the general assets distributed, perhaps to fifty families."
But in this case, it was to be carried on, for about thirteen or fourteen months only, and without the slightest, inconvenience either 4o
c mankind" generally, or to th6 devisees and legatees of Mr. Mande%ille
in particular'; nor has there been a distribution, either in' part,
or whole, of Mr. Mandeville's personal estate. Wherein, we again
ask, do the cases assimildte?
VOL. II.-72
3 B2

570

SUPREME COURT.
Burwell v. Mandevii1l's Executor.

Exparte Richardson et al. in re Hodgson et al. 3 Maddock's Chan.
Rep. 79.
, This case stands upon the same ground of Ex parte Gariana, and
consequently, this, like that case, is clearly distinguishable from the
case now before the court, for the reasons already stated in regard to
that case. Thompson andAndrews, 1 Mylne and Keene's Rep. 116.
This case bears no analogy whatever to the case now under consideration, and is very similar to the two preceding cases of Ex parte
.Garland, and Ex parte Richardson and others. In this case, the testator merely expresses a wish, that the trade maybe carried on by his
widow and son, after his death, "for their joint benefit and mutual
advantage."_ And in furtherance thereof, gives and bequeaths to
them, all his "stock in trade of what nature or kind soever," by him
" employed or used in said trade," claiming in no manner any future
interest therein; consequently they traded on their own property, for
their own benefit, and not upon the testator's, for he had embarked
nothing .therein, and therefore the creditors must have known upon
whose responsibilitr they dealt, and we are entirely at a loss to imagine how this can be considered a post mortem partnership, and if
not a partnership, by what legal ways and means could the testator's
estate be liable.
In support of the 5th point, Mr. NJeale referred to the following authorities:
3 Bos. and Pul. 620-; 6 Cruise, 206, 207; 3 Mumf. 716,; 3 East,
516; 2 Mod. 313, 314;- 12 Mod. 593; 1 Ves. and Beames, 410;
Doug. 739; 9 Cowp. 657; 1 Swauston,.201.
Smith, for the defendant West, stated the following preliminary
propositions:
1. That by a fair construction of the will, the entire real and personal estate (except the interest in the firm of Cawood and Company)
vested in West. as general residuary devisee and legatee, subject -only
to debts and legacies.
After showing, with some minuteness, how far the courts in England had gone in order to carry out tle intention of the testator, he
referred to the cases of 3-Peters, 346, and 6 Peters, 68.
The introductory words of the will show an intention, in the testator, to part with his whole estate. To show the weight which
courts have attached to the introductory clause of a will, and also
what particular words and expressions, other than words of perpetuity

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

571

Burwell v. Mandeville's Executor.

have been regarded as sufficient in devisees to pass an estate in fee,
he cited, Forrester's Rep. (or Cas. temp. Talbot,) 157; 2 Atk. 37;
3 P. Wins. 295; 1 Wilson, 333; 2 Vern. 690; Preston on Estbtes,
90 et seq. Ist Am. ed. ; 6 Com. Law Rep. 191 ; 1 Johns. Chan. Rep.
494; 3 Cranch, 97; .1 Wash. 96,; 3 Rand..280.
The word "property'. is sufficiently extensive, in connection with
the gencral residuary clause, to pass real and personal estate. 1 Rey.
Code of Va. 369, .chap...99, sect.'27; 11 East, 288, 5].6; 1:4"East,
368, 17 Com..Law Rep. 280, 289; 2 Des. Chan. Rep. 573; 6 Serg. and
Rawle, 452, 1 Wrash.'Va. Rep. 45, 262; 11 East, 321;. 1 Taunt..
288; 2 Vern. 564; 5 Burr. 26, 38; 1 Hen. Bla. 223; 5 Taunt.-268;
[Mr. Smith here analyzed the clauses of the will.]
Even the word clegacy" nlay be applied to real estate, -if the context of the will shows that such was the testator's intention. 1 Burr."
268; 5 Term Rep. 716; 11 East, 245; 15 East, 503.
2. That being directly and materially interested in the subject in
controversy, West is a proper party. 1 Johns. Chan. Rep. "437;
3 Johns. Chan. Rep. 553.
3. -That the general assets of the testator are not liable to the claim
of the plaintiff in error; it being contracted since Mande*ille's death.
And that the testator, by the terms of his will, left nothing more at
stake in the concern of Cawood and Company than his 'interet in the
co-partnership at the time of his death
A testator may sever a portion from the main body of his estate to
follow the hazards of a trade;* and-the general - assets, in such case,
are not r~spofisible.
'
The only case denying this is Hankey v. Hammond, Cooke's
Bankrupt Law, 5th ed. p. 67, cited in a note to 3 Madd. Cban. Rep.
148. But this doctrine is reviewed in-Ex parte Garland, a'leading
ca.se, 10 Ves. jun. 110. The latter case is stipportedfby Ex p 6rte
Richardsoi, 3 Madd. Chan. Rep: 138, "157;'-iflo in 1 M'IAyie* and
Keene, 116, the case of Ex parte Garland is reiiewed 'and sustained.
See also, Pitkin v. Pitkin, 7 Conn. Rep. 307, where there is a strong
analogy to the case at bar.
The doctrine of Ex parte Garldrid has beconie incorporated into.
the elementary books. 3 Com. Dig. 609, pl. 12; 2 Madd. 'Chan.
651; 2 Roberts on.Wills, 123.
[Mr. Smith here compared the case at bar with the cases cited
I " .. "I
above.] 4. The general assets of the testator, not beifg liable t6 the .corn-':

572

SUPREME COURT.
Burwell v. Mandeville's Executor.

plainant's demand, and such liability being the only ground for equitable relief, the-demurrer was properly sustained, and the bill dismissed as to all the defendants. 1 Gallison, 630; 2 Vern. 292;
1 P. Wins. 682; 2 Ves. 101.
Jones, on the same side, said, that West had a right to be a
party. Legateesiaregeperally considered to be represented by executors, but it is not error if a legatee be ifiade a party. Calvert on Parties, 20, 21, 149, 171, 172.
It was a matter of discretion in the court below; and. this court
will not-review it. The executor did not file a proper answer, becduse he impliedly
admitted that the, estate was bound. He is a creditor.
The cas ii 11 Serg. and Ra~wle, 41, relied. on b the other side,
is not in point, because there was an article in the original partnership for'carrying it on.
Coxe, in reply and conclusion.
The counsel on the other -side have not kept within the record.
The surviving partner became insolvent, but the record does not show
hbOw. All parties- considered the firm as the same after the death of
Mandeville as it had been before; the executor, surviving partner and
all; and the bill only charges the personal estate, not the real.
WVTas it necessary to make the devisee a party? The authorities
are collected in Story's Eq. Plea. 135, 140, 141, 148, 150, 155.
The court would not dismiss the bill because the devisee was not
made a party. 4 -Wash. C. 0. R. 202, 208; 3 Cranch, 227.
Cawood is certainly h'able because he contracted the debt. Have
we mistaken our remedy against him? We call upon him to account,
which is a matter peculiarly appropriate to equity. If the bill is good
ag nst him alone, it ought not to have been dismissed.
A pailnership can go on by will,. 7 Peters, 594: 11 Serg. and
Rawle, 41.
Story on Partnership, sect. 195,196. If it is restricted or limited,
the burden of proving it is on the other side.
In Ex parte Garland there was a limited sum left for the use of the
firm.
In 3 Maddock, 145, each party.-put in a specific sum, and the
court ordered an account 'up to the time of the death; and said it
depended on the. will how the business was to be carried on.

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

573

Burwell v. Mandeville's Executor.

Mylne and Keene, 116, is like the case in Maddock. As to the
case ;. 7 Cowen, Rep. 312, limited partnerships are recognised in
that state.
Mr. Justice STORY delivered the opinion, of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of the United
States for the District of Columbia, sitting in equity in -the county
of Alexandria.
Oi the 9th of July, 1836, Joseph Mandeville, deceased, by certain
articles then executed, entered into partnership with Daniel Cawood,
one of the defendants, for the term of three years from the 1st of
September, 1835, under the firm of Daniel Cawood and Company.
On the 3d of June, 1837, Mandeville made his last will, by which
in the introductory clause he 'said: " I do hereby direct the disposal
which I desire of my earthly remains after my decease, and of such
real and personal, property as I may possess when called hence to a
future state." He then proceeded to make sundry bequests of' his'
real and personal estate to different persons; and then added: cc If
my personal property should not cover the entire amount of legacies'
I have or may give, my executors will dispose of so much of my
real estate as will fully pay the same." He immediately added:
"John West, one of the defendants, formerly of Alexandria, now of
Mobil , I hereby make my residuary legatee, recommending him to
6onsult with and follow the advice of my executors in all concerning
what I leave to him.". The testator on the 11th of July, 1837, made
the following codicil to his will. "IIt is my will that my interest in
the copartnership subsisting between Daniel Cawood and myself,
under the firm of Daniel Cawood and Company, shall be continued
thereon until the expiration of the.term limited by the articles between
us; the business to be continued by the said Daniel Cawood, and the
profit or loss to be distributed in the manner the said articles provide." The testator 'appointed Robert J. Taylor and William C*
,Gardner (one of the defendants) executors of his will, and died in
July, 1837. His will and 6odicil were duly proved after his death,
and Taylor having renounced the executorship, Gardner took upon
himself the administration of the estate under letters testamentary
granted-to him by the Orphans'-Court of Alexandria county.
Cawood, after the testator's death, carried on the copartnership in
the name of the firm, and failed in business before the regular expiration thereof, according to the articles.

574

SUPREME COURT.
Burwell v. Mandevifle's Executor.

The present bill was originally brought against (0awood and
Gardner, as executors of Mandeville, by the plaintiff, Burwell, aleging himself to be a creditor of the firm upon debts contracted with
him by Cawood, on"behalf of the firm, after Mandeville's death, viz.
on a promissory note, dated the 28th of July, 1838, for $800, and
on an acceptance of a bill of exchange drawn by Burwell on the
same day for $1000, in favour of one William H. Mount, both of
which remained unpaid. The bill charged the failure of Cawood in
trade, and his inability to pay the debts due fr6m the firm. It also
charged that Gardner, the executor, had assets sufficient to satisfy all
the debts of the testator, and all the debts of Cawood and Company;
and it soughi payment of the debt due to the plaiatiff out of those
assets.
The defendant, Gardner, put in an answer denying that he had
such accurate information as to enable him to say whether the partnership funds in the hands of Cawood were sufficient to pay the
debts of the firm or not; and not admitting that the assets of the
testator in his hands were liable to the payment of the debts of the
firm, and requiring proof of such liability, and alleging that he had
not assets of the testator in his hands sufficient to satisfy the plaintiff's claims, tffter satisfying two specified judgments.
The defendant, Cawood, not having made any answer at this stage
of the cause, the bill was thereupon taken against him pro cofessosubsequently he put in an answer; and thereupon it was, by consent
of the plaintiff; and-Cawood, and Gardner the executor, referred to a
master to take an account of the assets of the testator, of the debts
due to him, of the value- of his real estate, 2nd to settle the accounts
and transactions of the flim of Cawood and Company until its terminaton, and of the individual partners with the firm, to take an account
of the assets of the firm, and the outstanding debts of the firm, and the
debts due thereto, &c. ; and also to ascertain whether the debt due to
the plaintiff arose in the partnership transactions, and is now due.
Cawood, by his answer, admitted generally the facts stated 'in the
bill;. but he also alleged that he neither admitted nor denied the insolvehcy of the firm, averring-that he had satisfied claims against the
firm since it terminated to the amount of about $14,000 from the firm
funds, and was engaged in the collection of the outstanding debts due
thereto, and that the 'firm still owed debts to the amount of about
7000.
The master made his report in May, 1841; the details of which it

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

:-575

Burwell v. Mandeville's Executor.

is not necessary to mention. In November, of thesame year, it was
referred to another commissioner to take an account of the assets of
Mandeville in the hands of his executor, who afterwards-made a.report accordingly. At this stage of the proceedings, John West (the
residuary legatee, so called-in. the -will) claiming, to be interested in
he subject-matter, the bill was amended. by mbking:West- a party;
and he filed a demurrer to the bill. -The demurrer -was afterwards
set d6wn for argument, and thd court being. of opinion that the assets
of Mandeville in the hands of his executor -(Gardner) were not
chargeable with any debt contracted by Cawood in the name of the
firm, after the death of Mandeville, sustained the demurrer, and dismissed the bill with costs. From this decree-of dismissal the present
appeal has been taken to this court.
The argument has spread itself over several topics, which are not
in our judgment now pr6perly before us; whatever ma have been
their relevancy in the court below. The real question, arising before
us upon the record, is, whether the general assets of- the testator,
Mandeville, in the hands of his executor, are liable for the.-payment
of the debt due to the plaintiff, which was contracted after Mandeville's death' If they are not, the bill was properly dismised5
ever might be the remedy of the plaintiff against Cawood, if the suit
had been brought against him alone, for equitable- relief, upon which
we give no opinion. In general the surviving partner is liable at law
only; and no decree can be made against him, although he may be
a proper party to the suit in equity, as being interested to contest the
plaintiff's demand, unless some other equity intervenes ; and so it was
held in Wilkinson v. Hei.Lerson, 1 1fylne and-Keene, 582, 589.
The bill, as framed, states the insolvency of Cawood, and seeks no
separate relief against him, and therefore, if it is maintainable at all, it is
so solely upon the ground of the liability of the general assets of Mandeviyle to pay the plaintiffjointly with the partnership funds in the hands
of Cawood. In respect to another- suggestion, that West was not a
necessary party to the bill, in his character of residuary legatee of the
personalty, that may be admitted; at.the same time it is as cleari
that as he had" an interest in that residue, if Mandeville's general
assets were liable for the-plaintiff's debt ,-:and therefore, the plainiff
might -at his nption join him in the.suit, and if West did not object,
no other person would'avail'himself of the objection of his misjoinder.
Then', as to the liability of the general assett of Mandeville in the
hands of his executor for the payaent of the plaintiff's-debt---vre

576

SUPREME COURT.
Burwell v. Mandeville's Executor.

of opinion that they are not so liable; and shall now proceed to state
the reasons for this opinion.
By the general rule of law, every partnership is dissolved by the
death of one of the partners.(a) It is true that it is competent for the
partners to provide by agreement for the continuance of the partnership after such death; but then it takes place in virtue of such agreement only, as the act of the parties, and not by mere operation of law.
A partner too may by his will provide that the partnership shall continue notwithstanding his death; and if it is consented to by the surviving partner, it becomes obligatory, just as it would, if the testator,
being a sole trader, had provided for the continuance of his trade by
his executor, after his death. But, then, in each case the agreement
or authority must be clearly made out; and third persons, having
notice of the death, are bound to inquire how.far the agreement or
authority to continue it extends, and what funds it binds, and if they
trust the. surviving party bey6nd the reach of such agreement, or
authority, or fund, it is their own fault, and they have no right to
complain that the law does not afford them any satisfactory redress.
A testator, too, directing the continuance of a partnership, may, if
he o choose, bind his general assets for all the debts of the partnership contracted after his death. But he may also limit his responsibility, either to the funds already embarked in the trade, or to any
specific amount to be invested therein for that purpose; and then the
creditors can resort to that fund or amount only, and not to the general assets of the testator's estate, although the partner, or executor,
or other person carrying on the trade may be personally responsible
for all the debts contracted. This is clearly established by the case
Ex parte Garland, 10 Yes. 110, where the subject was very fully discussed by Lord Eldon, and Ex parte Richardson, 3 Madd. 138, -157,
where the like doctrine was affirmed by Sir John Leach, (then Vicechancellor,) and by the same learned judge, when Master of the Rolls,
in Thompson v. Andrews, 1 Mylne and Keene, 116. The case of
Hankey v. Hammockbefore Lord Kenyon, when Master of the Rolls,
reported in Cooke's Bankrupt Law, 67, 5th ed., and more fully in a
note to 3 Madd. Rep. 148; so far as may be.thought to decide that the
testator's assets are generally liable under all circumstances, where
the.trade is directed to be carried on after his death, has been completely overturned by other later cases, and expressly overruled by
Lord Eldon in 10 Ves. 110, 121, 122, where he stated that it stood
(a) See Scholfield v. Eichelberger, 7 Peters, .586.

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

577

Burwell v. Mandeville's Executor.

alone, and he felt compelled to decide against lts authority: ' The
case of Pitkin v. Pitkin, I Conn. Rep. 307, is fully in point-to 'the
same effect, and indeed,. as we shall presently see, runs quator pedibus with the "present.
And this leads us to remark, that nothing but the most dear and
unambiguous language, demonstrating in the most positive manner
that the testator intends to make his general assets. liable for all debts
contracted in the continued tiade" after his death, and not-merely tQ
limit it to the funds embarked in that trade, would justify the court
in arriving at such a conelusion from the manifest inconvenience
thereof, and the utter impossibility of paying off the legacies be-'
queathed by the testator's will, or distributing the residue of.Jais estate, without in effect saying at the same time that the payments may
all be re-called, if the trade should become unsuccessful or ruinous.
Such a result would ordinaril be at war with the testator's intention
in bequeathing such legacies and residue, and would, or might postpone the settlement of the estate for a half-dentury, or until long after
the trade or continued partnership should terminate. Lord Eldon, in
10 Ves. 110, 121j 122, put the inconvenience in a strong light,
by suggesting several cases where the doctrine would create the
most manifest embarrassments, if not utter injustice; and. he said,
that the convenience of mankind required him to hold, that the
creditors of the trade, as such, have not a claim against the distributed
assets in the hands of third persons, under the directions in the same
will, which has authorized the trade to be carried on for the benefit
of other persons. This, also, was manifestly-the opinion of Sir John
Leach in the cases 3 Madd. Rep. 128; 1 Mylne and Keene, 116, and.
was expressly held in the case in 7 Conn. Rep. 307.
Keeping these principles in view, let us now proceed to the examination of the will and codicil in the present case. There can, we
think, be no doubt, that the testator intended by his will to dispose
of the whole of his estate, real and personal. The introductory words
to his will already cited, show such an intention in a clear and expli"cit manner. The testatot -there says: -c I do hereby direct the disposal which I desire of my earthly remains after my decease, and of
such real and personal estate as I may possess, when called hence to
a future state." He, therefore, looks to the disposal of all the estate
he shall die possessed- of. It is said that, admitting such to be his
intention, the testator has not carried it into effect; because the residuary clause declares John West his c residuary legatee" only, and
VoL. IL-73 '3
0

SUPREME COURT.
Burwell v. Mandeville's

Executor.

not his residuary devisee also; and that we are to interpret the words
of the will according to their legal import as confined altogether to
the residue of the personal estate. This is, in our judgment, a very
narrow and technical interpretation. of the words of"the will. The
language used by the testator shows him to have been an unskilful
man and not versed in legal phraseology. The cardinal rule in the
interpretation of wills is, that the language is to be interpreted in subordination to the intention of the testator, and is not to control that
intention, when it is clear and determinate. Thus, for example, the
word ",legacy" may be construed to apply to real estate where the
context of the will shows such to be" the intention of the testator.
Thus in Hope v. Taylor, 1 Burr. Rep. 269, the word "clegacy" was
held to include lands, from the intention of the testator deduced from
the .context. The same doctrine was fully recognised in Hardacre
v. Nash, 5 Term Rep. 716. So, in Doe dem. Tofield v. Tofield,
11 East, 246, a bequest of c all my personal estates" was construed upon the like intention to include real estate. But a case
more directly in point to the present, and differing from it in no
essential circumstances, is Pitman v. Stevens, 15 East, 505. There
the testator, in the introductory clause of his will, said: " I give and
bequeath all that I shall die possessed of, real and personal, of what
nature and kind soever, after my just debts is paid. I hereby appoint
Capt. Robert Preston my residuary legatee and executor." The
testator then proceeded to give certnin pecuniary legacies, and finally
recommended his legatee and executor to be kind and friendly to his
brother-in-law J. C., &c.1 and begs him to do something handsome
for him at his de ath, &. The question was, whether Preston was
entitled to the real estate of the testator, under the will; and the
court held that he was; and that the words " residuary legatee and
executor," coupled with the introductory clause and the recommendation clearly established it. Upon that occasion, Lord Ellenborough,
after referring to the words of the introductory clause, said: c Then
he appoints Capt. P. his residuary legatee and executor-residuary
legatee and executor of what? of all that he should die possessed of,
real and personal, of what nature and kind soever; that-is, of all he
should not otherwise dispose of. The word ' legatee,' according to
the cases, particularly Hardacre v. Nash, may be. applied to real
estate, if the context requires it, as was said by Lord Kenyon upon
the word 'legacy.' Then, in the subsequent parts of the will, he contemplates that his residuary legatee and executor will have the dis-

JANUARY TERM, 1844.
Burwell v. Mandeville's

579

Executor.

position of his whole funds, but after some legacies and annuities, lie
recommends-him to be kind and friendly to his brother-ili-law, &c;"
In'the present case it is plain that the testator contemplated some
positive benefit to West, when he designated him as his iesiduary
legatee; and yet, at the same time, he contemplated that his personal
property might not be sufficient to cover the amount of legacies. given
by his will; and in that event he directs his executors to dispose of
so much of his real estate as will .fully pay his legacies; so that, if
we restrain the words residuary legatee" to the mere personalty, we
shall defeat the very intention of the testator, apparent upon the face
of the will, to give some beneficial interest to West, in an even't
which he yet contemplated as not improbable. On the-other hand,
if we give an elarged and liberal meaning to the residuary clause as
extending'to the real estate, it -will at once satisfy the introductory
claiuse, and upon a deficiency of the personal assets will still leave
an ample amount to the beneficiary, who appears to have been an
object of the testator's bounty. But if this interpretation should be
(as-we think it is not) questionable; -one thing is certaini and that
is, that the .testator did not contemplate that his personal assets would
not be more than sufficient to pay all his debts; - 'for he does nok
charge his, real estate with his debts, but only with his legaci'es, in
case of any deficiency of personal- assets; and the residuary clause,
if it were limited to the mere residue of his personal assets would
also show that 'the" testator did not provide for. any debts which
should ari'e from any subsequent transactions after his death.
If this be so, then 'we are to look to the codicil to see whether
any different intention is there disclosed 'in clear and unambiguous
terms. In the first place, the language of the codicil is just such as
the testator might properly have used, if he intended no more than'
to pledge his funds already embarked in the partnership for the payment of the partnership debts. The codicil says, "cIt is my will that
my interest' in, the epartnership, &c., shall be continued therein
until the expiration of the term limited'. by the articles." Now, his
interest in the -firm then was his share of the capital stock aind profits,'
after the payment of all debts and liabilities due by the firm. It is
this interest, and-not any new capital which he authorizes t6 be
embarked in the fifiu. He does not propose to add any thing to his
existing interest, but simply to continue it as. it then was. How,
then, dan this court say- that he meant to embark all his personal
assets in the hands of his executor as a pledge for the future debts,

580

SUPREME COURT.
.Burwell v. Mandeville's Executor.

or future responsibilities or future capital of the~firm? That would
be to enlarge the meaning of the words used beyond their ordinary and
reasonable signification. And besides, it is plain that the testator did
not mean to have the payment of his legacies indefinitely postponed,
iuntil the expiration of the articles, and the ascertainment and final
adjustment of the concerns of the firm, which might perhaps extend
to ten or twenty years. So that to give such an enlarged interpretation to the terms of the codicil, (as is contended for,) for the codicil
must be construed as if it were incorporated into the will, would be
to subject the legatees to all the fluctuations and uncertainties growing
*out of the future trade, and might deprive the residuary legatee of
every dollar intended for his benefit. There is another consideration
of the matter, which deserves notice. Would the real estate of the
testator, upon a deficiency of his personal assets, be liable for the
debts of the firm contracted after his death, by mere operation of law,
as it would be for such debts a were contracted in his lifetime? If
it would, then it is apparent, that all the legatees and devisees might
in the event of the irretrievable and ruinous insolvency of the firm
be deprived of all their legacies and devises, although the legacies
were charged upon the real estate. If it would not, then it is equally
apparent that the testator did not contemplate any liability of his
general assets, real and personal, for the payment of any debts, excepting those which were subsisting at the time of his death. There is
yet another consideration, not unimportant .to be brought under review.
It is, that the whole business of the firm, is to be conducted by Cawood alone, and that neither the executor nor the legatees are
authorized to interfere with or to scrutinize his transactions. Such
an unlimited power over his whole assets by a person wholly unconnected with the administration of his estate could scarcely be presumed to be within the intention of any prudent testator. If to. all
.these we add the manifest inconveniences of such an interpretation
of the codicil, thus suspending for an indefinite time the settlement
of the estate and the payment of the legacies, it isnot too much to
say, that no court of justice ought upon principle to favour, much
less to adopt it.
And, certainly, there is no authority to support it; at least none,
except Hankey v. Hammock, which cannot now, for the reasons
already stated lie deemed any authority whatsoever. On the other
hand, tie case Ex parte Garland, 10 Ves. 110, and Ex parte Richardson, 3 Madd.. Rep. 138, although distinguishable from the present in

JANUARY

TERM, 1844.

581

Ladiga v. Roland et al.

some of their circumstances, were reasoned out and supported upon
the broad and general principle that the assets of the testator were in
no case bound for the debts contracted after his death by the persons
whom he had authorized to continue his trade, but the rights of such
new creditors were exclusively confined- to the funds embarked in
the trade and to the personal responsibility of the party who continued
it, whether as trustee, or as executor, or as partner-unless, indeed,
the testator had otherwise positively and expressly bound his general
assets. The case of Pitkin v. Pitkin, 7 Conn. Rep. 307, is, however, (as has been already suggested,) directly in point. There, the
testator, by his will directed, "that all his interest and concern in the
hat manufacturing business, &c., as then conducted under said firm,
should be continfed to operate in the same connection for the term
of four years after his decease, &c." The court there held, after
referring to the cases in 10 Ves. 110, and 3 Madd. Rep. 138, that
the general assets of the testator were not liable to the claims of any
creditors of the firm who became such after the testator's death; and
that such creditors had no lien on the estate in the hands of the
devisees under the will, although they might eventually participate
in the profits of the trade. There was another point decided in that
case, upon which we wish to beunderstood as expressing no opinion.
Upon the -whole, our opinion is, that the decree of the Circuit Court
dismissing the bill ought to be affirmed with costs.
ORDER.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the -District of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Alexandria, and was argued by
counsel. On consideration whereof, It is now here ordered and
decreed by this court, that the decree of the said Circuit Court in
this cause be, and the same is hereby affirmed with costs.

SALLY LADiGA, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR,. V. RIcARD Dnj;MARcus ROLAND,
AND PETER HIEFNER, DEFENDANTS.
By a treaty made between the United States and the Creek tribe of Indians,
east of the Mississippi river, on the 24th of March, 1832, it was stipulated.
1.That ninety principal chiefs of the tribe should be allowed to select one section each.

3c2

