JANUARY TERM; 1844.

711

Bank of the United States v. The United States.

noticing them and directs that its opinion should be exclusively confined to the instructions which have been considered.
ORDER.

This cause dame on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the eastern district of
Pennsylvania, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof,
It is now here 'ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be, and the same is hereby reversed, -with costs ; and that' this cause 'be, and the same is
hereby remanded to the said Circuit Court, with directions to award
a venirefaciasde novo.

THE BA K OF THE UNITED STATES, PLAINTIFF

IN 'ERROR,

v. THE

UNITED STATES.
By a treaty between the United States and France, the latter agreed to 'pay to

the former a certain sum of money, the first
instalment of which became due
on the second of February, 1833.
The secretary of the treasury, under a power conferred by Congress, drew a
bill of exchange upon the'Frehch governmeht, which'was purchased by the
Bank of the United States.
Not being paid, upon presentation, it was protested and immediat t!ytaken up
by banker in Paris, for the honour of the bank.
The bill is hot liable to objection as being drawn upon a particular fund.
The United States, is drawers, are responsible to the bank for fifteen per cent.
damages under a statute of Maryland, which allows that amount to the holder
of a f6reign protested bill.
When the bankers in Paris took it up and charged the amount of the bill to the
bank, intheir account with it, the bank became thereby remitted to its briginal
character as holder and payee.
Under the law-merchant, the drawer of a foreign bill of exchange is liable in
case of protest, for costs .and. other incidental charges, and also for reexchange, woether direct or circuitous. *The statute of Maryland, allowing
fifteen per cent., fixes this in lien of fe-ex6hange, to obviate'fhe difliculty of
proving the price of re-exchange.
'When the bank came into possession of the bill; upon its return, the endorse-'
ments were in'effect stricken out, and the bank became, in a commercial and
legal sense, the holder of the bill.

THis case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit Court
of the' United States for the district of Poensylvarfii.

712

SUPREME COURT.
Bank of -the United-States v. The United States.

The facts in the case were these:
By the second article of the .Convention of 4th of July, 1831, between the United States and France, which was ratified on 2d of
February, .18321 25,000,000 of francs, with interest .at the rate of
four per -ent. per annum, were payable, at Paris, in -six annual instalmerits, into. the -hands of such person or persons as should- be
authorized by the govern ment of the United States to receive it, the.
first in~talment to be paid at the expiration of one year next follow-'
ing the exchange of the ratifications. 'It was frther agreed, however,
by the treaty, that the sum of 1,500,000 francs should be reserved
by France for purposes therein stated.
.. On the 13th -of July, 1832, Congress passed an act by which it
was made the duty.of the secretary of the treasury to cause the several
instalments, with the interest thereon, payable to the United States
in virtue of the said convention, to be received from the French
government and transferred to the United States in'such manner as
he might deem best, and the nett proceeds thereof fo be paid into the
treasury.
In October and -November, 1832, and- January, 1833, a correspondence took place between Louis McLane, secretary of the treasury, and Nicholas Biddle, president of the Bank of the United
States,.upon the best means of transferring to the ITnited States the
first instalment,.-which would become.due on the 2d of February,
1833. Mr. Biddle offered to purchase the bill at the rate of five
francs thirty-twb and a' half centimes to the dollar, which would
have yielded to the governmentf$912,050 77, but this offer was declined by the secretary.' Subsequently, on the 30th of January,
183$, a negotiation was concluded at the rate of exchange of five
francs thirty-sevezi and a hdlf centimes to the dollar, and the following
bill was drawn:
[J.s.]

Treasury Department of the United States,
Washington, February7th, 1833.
Sir,- I have -he honour to request, that at the sight of.'this, my
first bill of exctiange, (the. second and third of the same tenor and
date, unpaid,) -you will be -leased to pay to the order of Samuel
Jaudon; cashier of the' Bank of the United States; the sum of
4,856,666 francs and 66 centimes ;"which 'includes.the sum of
$3,916,666 66, being the amount of the first instalment to be paid'

713

JANUARY TERM, 1844.
Bank of the United States v. The United States.

to the United States under the convention concluded between the
United States and France, on the 4th of July, 1831, (after deducting
the amount of the first instalmentito be reservel to France, under the
said convention,) and the additional sum of 940,000 francs, being
one year's interest at four per cent. on all the instalments payable to
the United States, from the day of the exchange of the ratifications
to the 2d of February, 1833.
I have-the honour to be, with great respect, your

obedient servant,
Signed

Louis McLAr.

Mr. Humann,
Minister and Secretary of State for the Department of Finance, Paris.

E. 2682-Mem.
Total amount of indemnity payable to the U. States, 25,000,000 00
Less amount of indemnity to be reserved to France, 1,500,000 00
23,500,000 00
1 year's interest from 2d Feb. 1832, to 2d Feb.
1833, at four per cent.
- I First instalment payable to the United States, -

-

Amount of the bill,

. 4,856,666 66

-

.

.

.

-

940,000 00
3,916,666 66

This bill was purchased by the Bank of the United States on the
11th of February, 1833, at the above-mentioned rate of exchange
of five francs and thirty-seven and a half centimes to the dollar, and
the amounijof $903,365 89 cents carried to the credit 'of the treasurer of the United States, which sum was increased on the 9th of
March, by adding $200 for a short-credit given, thus making altogether the sum of $903,565 89 cents.
The bill was accompanied by a power from the President of -the
United States, authorizing Samuel Jaudon to receive the amount of
the bill, and to give full receipt and acquittance to the government
of France.
The bill was endorsed:
Pay to the order of Messrs. Baring, Brothers and Co., of London.
(Signed,)
S. JAUDON,
Cashierof the Bank of the United States.
VOL. II.-90
3o2

714

SUPREME COURT.
Bank of the United States v. The, United- States.

Pay to the order of N. M. lRothschild, Esq., value received.
(Signed,)
BAtING, BRonmns and Co.
London, 19th March, 1833.
Pay to Messrs. De Rothschild, Brothers, or to their order, value
in account.
(Signed,)
N. M. Ro'mscmLw.
London, 19th March, 1833."
It was presented for payment on the 22d of March, 1833, at the
office of Mr. Humann, the laws of France not allowing any days of"
grace. The answer of the cashier of the central money-chest of the
public treasury was, -that having had' the orders of the minister,
secretary of state for the department of finance, he was instructed
to say that diplomatic treaties, which. impose engagements on. the
French- treasury to be discharged, do not become obligatory upon it
until the Chapibers have sanctioned' the financial dispositions which
are therein embraced. Therefore, the treaty concluded with the
,United States, not being yet sanctioned by 'the legislature, the minister of finance cannot at present make any payment to avail upon the
obligations contracted by the-said treaty."
The *notary farther states, that immediately, after the protest
Messrs. Hdttinguer and Co., bankers, inteitvened for the account of
Mr. Samuel Jaudon, cashier of. the Bank of the United States, and
agreed to pay the amount of the tiU and costs. '
On the 30th of March, 1833, Hottinguer and Co. made up the
following account against the bank.
Statenient of the payinent and charges made by Hottinguer, and Co,;
of Paris, on a bill of 4,856,666 66, drawn by the secretary of the
treasury of the United States upon M. Eumann, minister of finance,
protested for non-payment and which they paid for the honour of
the signature and for account of S. Jaudon, cashier .ofthe Bank ofthe United States of America.
F. 4,856;666 66 amount of th&bill.
24,283 33 commission half per ceiit.
F.

4,880,949 -99
3,399 90
27 65
14, 45
35 00

F. 4,88%427 99.

stamp.
protest and translation.
second, and third of protest and legalization.
paid to American consul at,Havre, expenses for
the document to be copiedupon his books..

715

JANUARY TERM, 1844.
B'ank of the Uni-ted 'States v."The United States.

Say four million eight. hundred andoeighty-for thousand four hundred and. twenty-sevea francs and nifiety-nine centimes, which we
place to the debit of the Bank of the United.States, due 22d March,
,H6TbXGUER.
Errors excepted.
.1833.
Paris, 30t March, 1833.
On the 26th of Apifl 1833, the bank received information of the
fate of th6 bill, and on-the'same day informed the secretary of the
treasury that they would hold him responsib.le for principal, interest,'
costs, damages, and exchange.
On the 13th of 'May, 1833, lhe bank forwarded to -the secretary
the f6llowing account:
Bankof the Uited States, .iy 13, 1833.
protest
for-non-payment, of a bill -ofexchange Account of return,'with
drawn. by Louis McLane, secretary of the treasury, dated Treasury Department of the United States, Washington; February. 7th,
1833, at sight, to the order of Samuel Jaudon, cashier of &e bank
of the United, States, on M. Humanh; -minister ,dsecietary of'
state for the Department -of Finance, Paris:
fi..4,856,6"66 66
.Principal due, March 22, 1833,
Costs of protest, as per Messri. Hottinguer. and
Co.'s account of charges herewith, exclu.,
sive of their commissibn, which is covered
3,478 o.0
by the damag s charged below,
(the date of protest,)
Interest from March 22d
to May 13th, fifty-two days -.
Damages on ft. 4,856,666 66 at, 15 per cent.
-

4,860,14 66
42,121 25
728)500 00

5,630,765 91
Which, at 5 30, the.current rate of exchange for a bill, at 'sight, on'
Paris, is $1,062,408 66' due in.cish this day, with interest until paid.
On the 16th of May, 1833, the secretary replied that the proceeds
-of the bill hid not been brought into the treasury by warrant, and.
his power to return the amount immediately to
therefore he had it in.
the bank; Wlhich.was accotdingly done, and on the 18th of May the
bank. debited the -Uited States upon its books with -the sum lbf
$903,565.89, beihg the exact stim for which the-bill had been
-

bought.

716

SUPREME COURT.
Bank of the United States v. The United States.

On the 24th of May, 1833, the attorney-general of the United
States addressed the following letter to the secretary of the treasury:
.Attorney-General's-Offce, .ay 24, 1833.
Sir-I have carefully examined the claims presented by the Bank
of the United States, on account of the protest of the bill of exchange
drawn by you on the French government for the first instalment and
interest due the United States, under the convention with France of
July 4, 1831.
The account stated by the bank, if supported by proper vouchers,
appears to be correct, with the exception of the claim of fifteen per
cent. damages on the amount of the bill. This item, in my opinion,
has no foundation in law or in equity, and ought not to be paid by
the government. The bank is entitled to indemnity, and to nothing
more.
I will take another occasion to state to you the reasons on which
my opinion is formed, and
Am very respectfully, your 6bedient servant,
(Signed,)
R. B. TANEY.
To the Secretary of the Treasury.
0iz.the 7th of July, 1834, the bank declared a dividend of three
and a half per cent. on its capital stock; which, upon 66,692 shares
held by the United States, amounted to $233,422.
On the 10th of April, 1,835, the secretary of the treasury drew
upon the bank for the difference between this sum and the amount
which the bank claimed to hold for the purpose of paying itself the
damages on the protested bill, being as follows:
Amount of dividend,
$233,422
Claimed by the bank on that day,
170,041 18
Amount drawn for by secretary of the treasury,

$63,380 82

On the 29th of July; 1837, the first auditor of the treasury stated
an account with the bank, in which he sanctioned the principle of all
the claims of the bank, except that for fifteen per cent. damages, saying that the costs and chargesfor stamp, protest, '&c., together with
the charge of Hottinguer for commission, were disallowed ccfor want
of vouchers merely," but, if properly vouched, would be admissible.
The United States brought a suit against, the bank on the second
of March, 1838i for the withheld portion of the dividend, being
$170,041 18, with interest. The bank claimed a set-off as follows:

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

717

Bank of. the United States v. The United States.

Amount claimed in letter of 13th May, 1833,
Refunded by the United States,
-

$1,062,408 66
903,565 89

Amount of set-off,
-w
38- 2$158842
77
with interest from 13th of May;"183.
The bill having been drawn in that part of the..istrict of Columbia where the laws of Maryland, anterior to the cession, were in
forte, the following statute of that state, a knowledgd of which is
necessary to understand the points raised in'the. bill of. exceptions, is
transcribed:
"November, 1785.-Chap. 38.
An act ascertaining what shall be recovered .on protested bills of
exchange, and to repeal an act of Assembly therein"mentioned.
"Be it enacted by the General Asseibly of Maryland, That upon
all bills of exchaige hereafter drawn in this state on any person, corporation, company, or society, in any foreign country, and regularly
protested, the owner,. or holder of such bill, or the person or persons,
company, society, or corporation, entitled to the same, shall have a
right to receive and rdcover so much current money as will purchase
a good bill of exchange of the same time of paymept, and upon the
same place, at the current exchange of such bills, and also fifteen per
cent. damages upon the value of the principal sum mentioned in such
bill, and-costs of 'protest, together with legal interest upon the value
of the principal sum mentioned in such bill from the time of protest,
antil the principal and damages are paid and satisfied: and if any
endorser of such bill shall pay to the holder, or the person or persons,
company, society, or corpoiation, entitled to the- same, the value of
the principal; andtlte damages and interest as aforesaid, such endorser
shall have a right to receive and recover the sum paid, with legal
interest upon the same, from the drawer, or any other person or persons, company, society, or corporation, liable to such endorser upon
suc bill of exchange.'
The court, after instructing the jury that the case was to be
governed, in respect to the set-off or credit claimed by defendants,
by the enactments of the said, statute of Maryland; and that it they
had been the holders of the said bill at the time of its protest, they
would, under the said statute, have been entitled to the set-off or
credit claimed,-the damages being, in such case, made by the pro-.
visions of the said statute a part of the debt as much as the principal, to which they were admitted to be entitled,--proceeded further

718

SUPREME COURT.
Bank of the United States v. The United
States.

to instruct the jury, that by the endorsements and protest given in
evidence, defendants did not appear to have been such holders of
said bill at the time of its protest; that their position was that of
endorsers, who had. taken it up or paid it; and that whether they
had so paid it in the place where it was payabl& or elsewhere, they
question, unless by
could not sustain their claim to the damages in.
proof that they had themselves paid such damages to the holder of
the-bill; and that the verdict on this point ought to be in favour of
the plaintiff.
Whereupon the counsel for the defendants excepted to the opinion
of the court.
The jury found for the plainiffs, and assessed the damages at
$251,243, 54.
The case came up to this court npon the exception just recited,
and was"argued by Cadwallader and Sergeant, for the plaintiffs in
error, and Welson, (attorney-general) for the defendant in error.
Cadwallader, for the plaintiffis in error.
Since the bill was drawn, and even since the suit-was brought, this
court has settled many of the 'questions intended originally to be
raised 'on the trial.
The last of these decisions was that in 15.Peters, 391, which took
-place in the interval between the institution of the suit and the trial,
where the court decided that "cwhere the United States become a
'party to drafts, they were under all the liabilities of private'individuals."
The only two questions in the. case are, therefore,
1. Whether, under the statute of Maryland, a private drawer
would be answerable, on the bill in question; nd
2. Whether, if so, there is any thing in.the relation existing between the parties to divest this responsibility.
1. We contend that the defendants below were within the description of ,,owner or holder of the bill or party entitled to it," mentioned
in the first clause of the statute, and not within that of endorser, in the
latter clause. To entitle a party to the benefit of the first clause, it
is got necessary that he should have been holder at the time of protest; but, nevertheless, the defendants below were, in fact, holders
of' the bill at the time- of protest, through the' intervention of their
agent, who, at that time, interposed,. for their account, and took up
the bill at the place where it was payable.

JANUARY

TERM, 1844.

719

Bank of the'United States .v. The United States.

The fiften per cent. is not well -named; -when it is called cc damages." -.It is not a penalty, but as miuch: a part of-the transaction
as re-exchange, certainly not unliquidated because it can be easily
calculated. It was described, in the court below, as a penalty to
punish delinquency or -insure puncfuality; but is really intended to
mitigate the rigour of law against a drawer. Re-exchange would
often be ruinous, and particularly with the colonies. The explanation of re-exchange is given in Story on Bills, 401. 'The holder has
a right to draw for the amount of the bill, and must do it in the same
way that the bill came. It is often circuitous. The general course
of exchange is often so between two countries, and sometimes the
circuity is casual. All the colonial statutes .were to limit the amount
for vhich a drawer should be held respohsible, and did not intend
to inflict a penalty."
The -rate.of these, damages varies; it is not the same between
England and the West Indies that it 'is between England and the
East Indies. Chitty, 668; Story, sect'. 408; Beawe4 on Bills,
610.
Damiages. were flied in lieu of-re-exchange. 6 Qranch, 221;
6 Mas. 157., 161.
The history of Maryland legislation shows that'it was intended for
the benefit of the drawer, by limiting the responsibility which he
would have been otherwise under. Acts of 1676 and 1678 say "ithe
party shall -not be allowed more than,"- &c. So the acts of 1692,
1699, 1704; 1708, and 1715. -The act'of 1715 is found in Bacon's
Laws, the others were read from MS. copies.
The French Code of Commerce, 183, art. 445, edition of 1814,
says, that damages are a compensation for the circuitous transmission
of a bill. Great injury is sustained by taking funds provided for
other purposes, and being obliged to take up a protested, bill. 3 Marshallf, 184; John H. Piatt's case, in 19 State Papers, 734.
In the latter case, an act of Congress of 1820 referred it to the
second comptroller. In-1823, it came before Congress again, and a
committee reported, upon it.' Pp.. 894, 904. The report says equitable principles require damages to follow protested bills.. Piatt had
not paid damages, "cbut this is a question never asked; the'fact of
protest is sufficient."
Dafiages cannot be sued for separately. 4 Har. and Johns. 240.
In Ambler, 672, Lord Camden says,, c the twenty per cent. is a
part of the original contract." See also,'2 Catnpb. 445; 12East, 420;

SUPREME COURT.
Bank of the United States v. The United States.

8 Watts, 546; Story, sect. 398, note; I Lutw. 885; 7 Term R.
570, 577; 4 Barn. and Cres. 445.
The argument on the other side is, that the endorser who pays is
not a holder under the statute ; but this is contrary to the general
law; and the object of the statute was to 'give indemnity to any
sufferer.
If an endorser, pr his agent for his hon6ur, takes it up supra protest,
he becomes the holder. Thus full effect is given to the whole act.
The argument on the-other side requires an interpolation of the words
"ctime of protest." By providing for the case of an endorser who
has paid damages, the statute intends an action on the bill; but it does
not restrain an endorser who has become holder without paying
damages, because the whole statute is enlarging. In this case, the
ownership was resumed at thie time of protest.
An endorser who paid the bill could not, without the statute, recover any thing except the amount of the bill and te damages; but
the' statute gives him interest also. It is, therefore, an enabling
statute. At the time of the act it was doubtful what an- endorser
could recover; 2 Durnf. and East, 100. Two years after the Maryland act says there had been doubt. See also 1 Hen. Bla. 640;
, Durnf. and East, 714; 3 East, 82, 177; 6 Barn. and Cres. 439.
According to the construction which the other side put upon the
statute, the case of an endorser who pays the bill without damages
is not provided for, unless by implication. And even the implication cannot stand unless by insertion of the words cc time of protest."
But the bank had made provision abroad. If a former holder of
the bill here, from alarm that it might-not be paid, sends his money.
abroad, he is as much out of funds as a foreign holder would be.
A payment supra protest, for the honour of a name upon thq bill,
is an exception to the general law of agent or substitution, which is
that one person cafmot become agent for another without his consent.
And this is not only a case of payment supraprotest, but with funds.
-See 5 Whart. 189; Pothier, 171; Chitty on Bills, 543; French
Code of Commerce, 158 ; 10 Merlin Repertoire Universelle de Jurisprudence, 74 b, tit. Lettre et billet de change; 1 Espinasse, 11-,
criticised and explained in Story on Bills, sect. 124, note;-Beawes,
54, 570 ; 1 Lutw. 896, 899.
A party, therefore, paying a bill, with or without funds, becomes
a holder under the Maryland law.,
The law of Maryland must govern this case. 6 Crnch, 224,

JANUARY

TERM, 1844,

721

Bank of the United States v. The United States.

Story on Bills, sect. 153; Story on Conflict of Laws, 307-317;
12 Peters, 524.
The United States must rest on the same obligations as a private
drawer when a bill is drawn by an authorized agent. Congress call
this a bill.- When they settle with the bank it is called a bill of ex-"
change. 4 Story's Laws, 2556, act of 3d March, 1837.
It is so on its fact, and in its nature; subject to the same rules,
because it was drawn to save freight, insurance, &c. The secretary
had a discretion under the act of Congress how to transfer the money.
The bank was bound by its charter to transfer the money of the government without exchange, within the United States; of dourse, on
a foreign transaction, exchange would be charged. The secretary sold
the bill, and preferred that mode to having it collected. 5 Wheat. 288.
The bank gave the government credit on its books, which is
equivalent to payment. 1 Howard, 239; 3 Bro. Chan. Rep. 433.
'elson; attorney-general, for the defendant in error.
Thd objection to the form of action, which was raised in the court
below, is understood, to be waived. It is unnecessary, therefore, to
argue .it.
The damages upon this bill were claimed by the bank by the way
of set-off when sued by the government for the dividend due upon
its stock; and were claimed, not -upon general principles, but under
the statute of Maryland. The only question is the construction of
that act.
There are four objections tq.allowing the bank these damages..
1. That the bank, through its agent, having paid no damages, can
receive none, and such -was the opinion of the court below.
2. That the instrument is not a bill of exchange within the m ean-,

ing of the act of 1785.
3. Supposing the bank to have been the holder, and the instrument to be a bill, still the United States, as a sovereign power, 'are*
not bound by the penalties of the act.
4. That the relations existing between the parties, and understood
by them, were such as to exclude the idea of damages.
• 1. By the general law-merchant, the holder of a protested bill is
entitled 'to reimbursement or indemnity, the standard of which is

interest, expenses, and re-exchange.
In many places, by statute or usage, damages are allowed, differing in amount; and, given, in some cases, in lieu of re-exchange,'
VOL. 11-91

3P

722'

SUPREME COURT.

Bank-of the United States v. The

United States.

costs, and interest. The effect is, to dispense with proof of all these
,things and facilitate adjfistment. Sometimes 9 penalty is superadded.
The statute says the holder shall receive as much money as will
purchase a new bill. This is just the definition of re-exchange.
Story on Bills, sect. 400. The Maryland bar was celebrated at the
time when this statute was passed; and no doubt it was carefully
prepared. The definition of re-exchange is "the purchase of a bill
-on the country where the drawer of.the protested bill lives." The
statute adopts'this in effecti because, althoug& it directs the new bill
to be purchased in the country where the drawer of the old bill
lives, instead of the country upon which the old bill was drawn,
yet the same amount of money would have to be paid in both cases.
The statute then provides for re-exchange, for costs, and for interest.
But these together constitute indemnity. What is the fifteen per
cent. which is then added? It must be a penalty.
. The old statutes of Maryland which have been read show this.
For example, the act of 1704 says there shall not be.allowed more
than twenty per cent, more than the principal sum and costs. The
act of 1708 says ten per cent. more than the sum and costs. " Under
'these statutes, the amount of damages was rnquired to be proved,
because it was left uncertain. The act of 1785 adopts a new principle, by providing indemnity and fifteen per cent. damages. The
amount of damages and the rules being thus fixed, a party -who
claims the one must bring himself within the other.
Rothschild was the. holder of the bill. It was. in his possession
by regular endorsement. Suppose he had. omitted to- cause it to be
protested. He could 'have recovered damages from nobody, because he would not have brought ,himself within the terms of the
act. And the endorser must bring himself within its operation also.
How? By paying the dahages to the holder or some -subsequent
endorser, 'to whom he was respbnsible. The statute provides
dhmages for this classof endorsers only. But the bank, having paid
no damages, does not belong to thi§ class, and is therefore not within
the statute at all. At the time of protest, it is clear that the bank
was not the "owner or hold'er" of the bill.; nor was it at any. time
afterwards within the protected class of endorsers. The reason of
the distinction is manifest. An endorser who had parted with the
bill and received value for it wai put. to no inconvenience by the
protest, and therefore had no claim upon the drawer for damages.
-

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

723

Bank of the 'United States v. The United States,

.His claim only began, in reason, when be'was hiiaself- called upon
to pay damages.
It is said by the other side, that the "1owner or holder" means
also an endorser. Butthe act does not say 11 those who may become
entitled to the bill," but uses language indicating existing ownership ; existing at the time of protest. The second clause of the act
says, "cand if any endorser 6f such bill shall pay to the holder, &c.,
making . clear distinction between the two classes of persons. How
then can they be confounded, and an endorser be allowed to claim
as a holder? To sustain- the construction of. the other, side, the
word 1.endorser" must be interpolated in the first clause. That
the ownership must exist at the time of protest is clear, from the language of the statute: IThat upon all bills of exchange hereafter
'drawn in this state on any-person, corporation, company, or society,
in any foreign couhtry .and regularly protested, .the owner or holder
of such bill," &c. Such bill; what bill? One that is regularly protested.' The ownership is placed in juxtaposition with the description. He must have been the owner or holder of the bill when it
undirwent this ceremony.'
As to endorsers, the statute -introduces no new principle. By the
general law-merchant, no endorser can receive damages-from the
drawer unless he has himself paid them. 3 Kent's Comnentaries,
115; 3 Washington's Rep. 310.
It has been said that the object of the second clause was -to provide a new remedybr a- endorser. But was-it? What wtre his
rights before? If Jaudon had been sued in London on this bill, he
would have been liable by the English law, for the bank was as
much liable for damages as the drawer. If the bank had paid all
this, tle dmwer' would have been liable, independently .of the
statute, -because the drawer would have to replace, the bill and
expenses.
The statute, therefore, gives the endorser no new remedy.
The bank.was-an endoi-ser at the time. of protest, and must remain
so; it cannot shift it. position and become a holder. The bill was
paid for the hnour of an endorser.after protest, the only effect of
which is to make the payer an endbisee of the bill, and protect the
endorser, for whose credit it is -aken.up, from damages. I Espinapse Rep. 113.
2. This is not a bill. within the meaning of ihe act, because it

SUPREME COURT.
Bank of the United States v. The United States.

was drawn upon a particular fund. Story on Bills, sect. 55, 56. A
general bill must be drawn upon the general credit of the party.
2 Lord Raym. 1681; 2 Strange, 1211; 5 Espinasse Rep. 247;
2 Kent's Com. 74, 75, 76; 2 Wharton, 233, The act of 1785
1nly applies to general bills. Here it was drawn upon a particular
fund and payable at the pleasure of the French government, because
no appropriation had been made by that government for it. It was
payable, too, out of the fund provided by the treaty.
3. The United States, as a sovereign power, are not bound by the
penalties of an act.
It is settled in England that the government is not bound by a
statute unless named. If the state of Maryland was not, then the
United States are not. 5 Co. Rep. 14 b; 11 Co. Rep. 74.
Is it possible that Maryland could have intended tor provide against
her drawing, bills as a sovereign, which would not be paid? Her
courts'have uniformly construed her laws according to the position
just laid down; "3Har. and McHenry, 171.
The questioh in the above case was this: Under the act of 1785,
chap. 80, sect. 7, no creditor was entitled to priority in the division
of an intestate estate. But the state claimed-a preference; and the
court said she was entitled to jure' regalia. Not being named,
she was not embraced within the act. 1 Har. and Johns. 417; 6 Gill
and Johns. 226.
4. The correspondence shows that the bank knew that the government was acting merely as an agent for the claimants under the
French treaty; that it was buta trusiee. The money to be received
was not intended t6 belong to the treasury of the United States, but
to be distributed amongst its owners. The only object of all parties
was to transfer the money from France to the- United States.
Sergeant, in reply.
The bill, being drawn in Maryland, is to be governed by the law
ofMaryland, so far- as concerns the-drawer. The endorser might
be subject to a different rule, having endorsed the bill in Pennsylvania, where the damages are twenty per cent. How the matter
would have stood, if the bank had been compelled to pay the twenty
per cent., it is not material to inquire.
What is the law of Maryland? There are six acts of.Assembly
prior to the act of 1785, on the subject of damages. They all have

JANUARY

TERM, 1844.

725

Bank of the United States v. The United States.

-one title, and they are ali restrictive.in their terms, that is to say, they
restrain or limit the. amodnt of damages by negative words.- The
first act,. made between 1676 and 1678, was nearly, if not exa'ctly
the form of expression which is followed in the five subsequent acts.
The act of 1785 is of the same character.. They are in par ma"teria. Besides, the act of 1785 has-the same title, and being made
to repeal and supply the prior acts, it must have the same purpose
• These acts assume, and conclusively show, that there was a
right to damages before, which they resti-ain, anti fx at a certain per
centage. This per centage is not damages given; they existed before. The acts only furnish'a rule for computing them. But they
are still damages.
He then argued
1. That damages were payable by the law-ierchant, in all cases
of dishonoured foreign bills of exchange.
2. That these damages were payable by contract, as a part of the
contract, and were capable of being ascertained, but only iii each
particular case.
3. That they have been fixed in some places and trades by usag9e
and in others by law, but .they are still due by contract, and in no
respect different from the damages payable by the general lawmerchant, except that a rule is established for computing or "ascertaining" them.
1.' He referred generally to the books and cases already cited, but
especially to Judge.Story's work on bills of exchange--466, 467,
where the subjectis fully explained. The damages are ascertained
by the rate of re-exbhange. , What that is,. and how it may operate,
we well know; De Tastet v. Baring, 11 East, 265; Mellish v.
Simeon, 2 H. BI. 378, where the damages were-fifty.per cent; Pollard v. Herries, 3 Bos. and Pul. 335, where they were upwards of two
hundred per cent.
It is necessary to understand what "'re-exchange" means. It is
the right to redraw, at the plade where the bill is payable, upon the
place where the bill is drawn, for such a sum as will pay the amount
on the face of the bill,'with costs and expenses, at the place, where
payable. The law is clearly laid down by Judge Story, in 3 Kent's
Com..115, and in Chitty. It is the right to redraw, and is exemplified in the two cases just cited.
We'must distinguish between "exchange" and "re-exch'ange."
3 P2

726

SUPREME COURT.
Bank of the United States v. The United States.

The act of 1785-framed with remarkable accuracy and fullness of
knowledge-itself makes the distinction, for it gives the exchange,
and then adds the fifteen per cent. The object is, to pay the bill at
the time and place where payable, according to the terms of the contract. Messrs. Hottinguer, for example, would have had a right, by
the law-merchant, to draw upion the United States, or upon the Bank
of the United States, for as much money as would pay them in Paris
the amount of the bill. The'-payment in Paris, therefore, at the time,
included the damages. And so, the payment by the Bank of the
United States tQ Messrs. Hottinguer inicluded the damages.2. They were payable by contract and capable of being ascertained. They were in no sense a penalty. They were a recompense,
an equitable equivalent, or more exactly, a fulfilment of the contract,
given by the law-merchant, which does not deal in penalties, but
looks to equity and substantial justice. This law of damages is
founded in the plain equity of the contract, and has nothing in it that
is vindictive or penal.
Still less, could they be said to be unliquidated. Where there
was an established iate of re-exchange, the price of the day furnished
the rule.. The law does not require that there should be an actual iedrawing. There is an immediate right to redraw, and whether
the holder redraw' or not, he is entitled to the amount. De Tastet
,v. Baring. Where there is no such rate established, or it is interrupted or disturbed, no matter how, resort may be had to circuitous
drawing, and the actual cost settles it, at the expense of the party
liable on the bill. Bangor Bank v. Hook, 5 Greenl. 174; Chitty, 670.
These damages are part and parcel of the bill, though contingent, as
is also the liability of the drawer and endorser.' They are recovered
in an ction on the bill, as the principal is..
The paymenti at the time and place -where the bill is payable,
therefore, includes the damages. Put the case of-a party on the bill,
tlius paying after protest-he actually pays the damages. They are
included in what he pays. In other.words, he pays eiactly the same
as if he had-been redrawn upon.
'3. In lieu of the right to redraw, usage has in some places fixed
a rate of re-exchange or damages, and law in others. ' Where not so
fixed, they remain as they were before: But neither the law nor the
usage professes to give tle damages. They were payable by
fhe contract, according to the law-merphant. Neither does the law

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

727

Bank of the United States v. The United States.

or usage, in any case, intend to take them away. They have in
view to avoid the fluctuations of exchange, (Story on Bills, 480;) to
mitigate the occasional rigour of the law-merchant. Chitty, 665. The
acts of the Maryland legislature had chiefly in view this latter object.
It would seem that the rule of the law-merchant had proved very
burdensome, which will easily be understoQd when we consider thaL
there never has been, and is no1L now, any regular re-exchange between England or the continent of Europe and the United States,
and, therefore, recourse was necessary to costly expedients. They
have all one title, " an act ascertaining what damages shall b&allowed on protested bills of exchange." The usage,'in some instances, has-passed into law. Neither the usage nor the law altered
the nature of the contract, that is, made it less a contract, as to its
force or its comprehension. They had one single object only, and
that for the benefit of the party liable. The damages are still due
by contract; more precisely than before, because the rate is fixed
and known, and therefore can be stipulated. But they rest upon the
same equitable contract: Before, it was an undefined, now a fixed
liability-that is, the amount is fixed, where there was already a
liability-the redrawing is fifteen per cent., neither more nor less,
since 1785. By the prior acts,' it was twenty per cent.
No such act can be presumed to mean any more. The remedy is
applied to a give.n mischief, and the acts all indicate pliinly -what that
mischief was. It was the same that has led elsewhere to usages and
laws,. that is, to substitute a fixed rate of damages for an uncertain
one, but by no means to take away-the right where it previously
existed.
Proceeding, then, more particularly to examine the act of 1785,
he maintained,
under the view thus taken of it,
1. That the Bank of the UWited States was the ".owner or holder
of such bill," and "1entitled to the same," within the terms and
meaning of the frst part of the first section of the act of 1785.
2. That the Bank of .the United States had actually paid the damages, and was within the words of the second part of the section.1. There is a radical error, as already intimated, in supposing the
act gives the damages-that there would be none without it. This
leads to error in the whole construction, by taking a wrong departure.
The act leaves the right as found, but limits and fixes the amount.
It professes to do nothing more. To this intent, it is to be liberally,

728

SUPREME COURT.
Bank of the United States v. The United States.

at least fairly, construed. It must be reconciled, if necessary, with
the law-merchant. It must not be brought into conflict with that
law, by interpretation out of its own words and, declared -intention.
iHis position was simply this-whoever by the la-v of the contract
-was entitled to.damages, is entitled still; and the damages are fifteen
per cent. Such is the exact effect of a usage. Grimshaw v. Bender,
5 Mass. 157, 161, 162; The right to damages attaches upon the protest of t+e bill., It is no more than this, to compel the drawer to pay
the bill- at the time and place stipulated. In favour of whom does
it attach? Why of the holder. Of what holder? Of anyholder. For
there always must be a holder, and there can be .but one at a time,
though there may be several persons uhited to make that one. The
Zrawer is not to be put to the risk, of paying twice. Therefore, the
claim must be made by one who has the possession, with right, so as
to be able to give up the bill, with a full and final discharge. The
Bank of the United States was the holder, to .this full intent. It held
the bill, with right, ready to hand it-over and give an effectual release.' What more could be requisite to make it a holder?
Now let us look at the act of Assembly, It uses the words in the
most general sense. It does not restrict them to the holder at the
time of the protest, nor to any particular time. It could not so mean.
The holder has a transferable right ; not negotiable in the broadest
meaning'of that-word, because, being overdue, which is notice, the
assignee takes the bill, subject to "the equities between the parties.
In other respects it is heg6tible. The holder may transfer it, as fully
as, he hold& it,.and his transfeiree becomes the holder,, with all -his
rights, including the right to'damages. If this be not so, the damages
-would.be lost by.the transfer, anii the first holder would be the loser,
as he .wuld not be paid for the damages, if they could not be transferred, whicqh would lbe unieasonable and unjust; or else, we should
be obliged to.consider this as a case not-provided for by the act, and turn over the dervative holder to 'the law-wiercbant for his rate of
But it is clear that the act ineant. to provide for every
'damages.
case. It applies, therefore, to every holder, and surely'the Bank of
the United States was a holder.
The .right of the bank, however, as holder, -is even 'stronger than
has yet been stated, and in point of law sufficient to salisfy any construction of the wbrds; as a moment's attention to. the facts will
show,

YANUARY TERM, 1844.

-

S729F

Bank of the United "State-s v. The United State's.

The bank .was the original holder of the bill, by purchase from
the United States. It endorsed the bill to Barings, aiid they endorsed
it to Rothschild. The bill was dishonoure&, and protested for nonpayment. Hottinguer and Co., of Paris, strangers to the bill, paid it
supraprotest, for the honour of' the Bank of the United States, the
endorser. By this payment, Hottinguer and Co. became the holders,
were substituted for the holders, with all their rights against the drawer
and the first endorser. This is fully settled in France, in England,
and in the United States, as may be seen by reference to Pothier,
Pardessus, Beawes, Chitty, Story, and every book that treats upon
the subject. The. only restriction was, that as they paid for the
honour of the first endorser, they could make'no claim -upon the subsequent parties on the bill. They became the holders, at the tiae
of the protest, with full rights -against the United States, and the
Bank of the United St.tes. These rights were, to redraw, that is, to
claim damages, and to transfer their rights as holder. In this
state of things, Hottinguers paid themselves, in Paris, the full amount,
out of money of the Bank of the United States then in their hands.
The bank ratified the payment-that 'is, the bank paid it to the
holdeis, and the holders (Hottinguers) handed the bill; with all their
rights, to the bank. The bank thus became the holder, and was
remitted to its former character and rights. Lutw. 896, 899 ; 7 Term
R. 570. They were the holders when the bill returned. They were
holders, by relation, to the time of the protest. They became the,
holders, in law, at the time of the protest. They- had* therefore a
right to redraw-that is, a right to damages.
The material fact here is, that the hank paid the full amount in
Paris of what was due there. They actually, -really, and legally paid
the daxrages, for to pay the bill at the place where payable, after
--protest, is to pay the damages. It gives the Ight to recover damages.
Suppose the case of circuitous redrawing. Each holder in succession becomes entitled. Mellish v. Simeon. The cases- are to every
intent the same; if there be a usage, that fixes the amount: and so,
if there be a law. To redraw from Paris on Mdaryland is fifteen per
cent. This, the Bank of the United Statas have, therefore, paid.
2. The Bank of the United States had actually paid the damages,
and so was within the words of the second part of the irst section
of the act of 1785.
It is proper here to notice the objection made on the part of the
VOL. II.-92

730

SUPREME COURT.
Bank of the United States tf. The United States.

United States, that the Bank-of the United States was an endorser,
and, therefore, could not recover damages, " unless it had paid them
or was liable to pay them." This is urged, upon the authority of
Chancellor Kent. 9 Kent's Com.:115. That learned author refers,
for his support, only to the case 6f Kingston v. Wilson, 4 W. C. C.
II. 310. He ias been misled by the note at the'beginning of the
report,.'vhere from *an error of the press, or some other cause, the
pointis stated as he has quoted it. *But'no suchquestion arose in
that case; and-n6ne such was deeided. One of the claimhs tlere made
was by the drawer of a bill of exchange upon the drawee, for not
accepting 'his bill, and the learhedjudge who th~i presided in that
cburt (Judge Washington) said, that in an 'action by the drawer against
the drawee, hb'could not recover damages, unless he had paid them
or was liable to pay them. See 4 W. C. C. R. 316. What the
law would be in such a case it is ndt now material to inquire.
But waiving that',question, and supposing (if it be possible) the
bank not to have been a "holder,' how will the 'matter. stand? The
bank, it must be premised, no one doubts, is able to give a full discharge..
If being on the bill, and holding the bill, the bank had paid the'
damages, it would.ibe entitled to recover them from any prior~party,
with interest. This'is not disputed, and cannot be disputed. Had
the)bank not paid the damages? "The law does not insist upon an
actual redrawing," &c. 3 Kent, 115. Nor is the claim for're-ex'change or damages coifined to bills of exchange. 3 8os. & Pul. 335;
Pollard v. Herries, Chitty, 668. It is the substance which is regarded. A.d so it is in',the Maryland act of 1785. The words of
the 'act apply exactly. -It does not reqtire that the damages shall
be paid eo .zomine, but the "value" of the same paid to the party
.entitled
to the same, as Hottinguer and Co. undoubtedly were
here. What was the ' value" of the same? Precisely the amount
on the face of.the bill, in Paris, at the'time. That is' exactly what
they had a right to redraw for. There is nothing artificial or technicalin the law-merchant. Chitty, 667. Its principles and its methods
are those of common sense and justice applied to the transactions of
men. The confusion in this case has arisen from not 4istinguishing,
as the law-metchant does, between paying, here and liaying aoroad.
Paying abroad includes the damages,'which the act of Assembly
fixes at fifteen per cent.

'JANUARY TERM, 1844.

731

Bank of the United. States v. The United States.

In every point of view, then, the bank has a clear right to the
damages. If the United States were authorized to draw, and the
government of France bound to accept, the United States will- liave
their recourse over against Frvnce for the damages, after paying the
bank.
Some minor objections have been made, not properly open upon
this record, which may be disposed of in a few words; and a ques:
tion has been suggested, entitled to attention.
1. It is said this is not a bill within the act, nor in a legal and
commercial sense, being drawn on a particular fund.
This subject, of what is lpot a negotiable bill, is treated fully, 'and
with reference to the authorities, by Mr. Chitty, pages 157, 158, and
by Judge Story in section 40, page 54. The exieptioDs are', vh'ea
there is a condition or contingency; here ' there was neither condition nor contingency.
It has been settled too b3' the legislative authority. The act- of
Congress of 3 March, 1837, 4 Story's Laws, 2556, styles it "the bill
of exchange.".
Again, it calls itself 'a"bill of exchange;" has always been termed
a "bill of exchange ;" went forth to thd world, and was negotiated
as such; has been so treated in all the correspondence; was protested
as a bill of exchange, and claimed as such in the suit. It is'too lat&
in 'the day to question its character.
The use it was employed for, to remit or transfer funds, does not
make it the less a bill of exchange. 5. Wheat. 288. This is, .and
always has'been the appropriate purpose of bills of exchange, whether they were originally invented by the Jews of Lombardy, or, as
Rank6 supposes, in his History of the Popes-of the 16th century, to
collect'the revenue in the Papal States.
2. The United States is a sovereign, not affected by.penalties in
an act of the legislature.
'If confined to penalties, the position is of no consequence here,
the question not being of penalties. If it be extended to daniages,
it is authoritatively answered by the United States v. Bank 'of Metropolis, 15 Peters, 377, 392-. See also, 3 Marsh. 184.
Upon what principle can it be contdnded that a contract of the
United States is different from that of an individual? A bill of exc.qnge is .a contract well understood, importing defiriite legal responsibilities. To what extent is it that the difference is to apply?

732

SUPREME COURT.
Bank of the United States v. The United States.

Will the United States be barred from claiming, as well as exempted
from paying-damages? They have always insisted upon, and rfceived them, where they were the holders of protested. bills. Such a
one-sided doctrine would be intolerable. And.what would become
of the credit of the United States? and the facilities they require in
the receipt and disbursement of their revenue, if their bills were
thus, as it were, outlawed? Such a doctrine has no countenance in
any decision of this court, and it is quite safe to predict it never
will have.
3. The relation between the parties--What is it? That of seller
and buyer. The United States came into the market -with a bill to
sell. The Bank of the United States bought it. Nothing could be
more simple. . There is no mystification in this. See Record, 16,
17, 18, 19. The money being-paid into the bank makes no difference. That was agreed, (Record,.p. 19;) and without agreement
was a thing of course, for the ban] was the treasury, and when the
money was so placed, it wag immediately at the dispjosition of the
government as its own..
But further, the United States have admitted their liability for
principal, interest, protest, and expenses, according to the bill of exchange. If not a bill of exchange, why pay for protest? Why a
protest or expenses, if not a bill of exchange? They only refuse to
pay the damages, which is entirely arbitrary.
If it had not been a bill of. exchange, it would still be a contriact
to pay a certain sum of money in Paris, on a given day. -If broken,
what would be the measure of damages? Not less, certainly, than
upon a bill of-exchange. Chitty, 668; Pollard v. Herries, 3 Bos. &
Pal. 335.
The objections of the United States' are thus disposed of. 'It is,
in truth, a very plain case., now'that it has been deliberately examined. The record and the history of the 'cause show that the
principal .point was suddenly started in the Circuit Court, and
scarcely at all discussed.
The question suggested, and all that remains to be considered is,
what would be the effect of the payment beihg prohibited by the law
of Fiance?
The fact is, that'the paym ent was not prohibited by law; but
there Was-no appropriation by law for the payment.- See Protest,
Record, 22, 26. The treaty was a binding contract between the high

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

733

Bank of the Un'ted States v. The United States.

contracting parties from the exchange of ratifications; and by that
treaty, the money was due and oughtito have been paid. It was
impossible to prohibit the payment l y a law of France, without assuming the grave responsibility of a wilful violation of the treaty,
which is not to be presumed. A mere failure to supply the means,
at the time appointed, was not of so serious a character. It might
admit of explanation. But still it was a failure.
But neither the one nor the other, nor a prohibition in every respect lawful, as being clearly within the rightful authority of the
legislatiire, could vary the rights of the parties to this bill. This was
directly and deliberately decided in Mellish v. Simeon, 2 H. BI. 378,
379, and in effect decided, also, in Pollard v. Herriesl-3 Bos. & Pul.
335. The reasonsare there fully set forth.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
A writ of error brings this case before the court, from the Circuit
Court for the eastern district of Pennsylvania.
On the 7th of February,'1833, the secretary of the treasury.of the
United States drew the.following bill on the minister and secretary
of state for the department of finance of the French government:
"Sir :-I have the'honour to request that at. the sight, of this my
first bill of exchange (the second and third of the same tehor and
date unpaid) you will be pleased to pay to the order of Samue.l Jaudon,.
cashier of the Bank of' the United States, the sum of 4,856,666 francs
and 66 centimes; which includes the sum of $3,916,666 66, being
the" amount of the first instalment to be paid to the United States
under the convention concluded between the United Staites and
France, on the 4th of July, 1831, (after deducting the amount
of the first instilment to be reserved to France under the said convention,) and the additional sum of 940,000 francs, being one year's
interest at four per cent. on all the instalments payable to the-United
States, from the day of the exchange of the ratification to the 2d of
February, 1833."
This bill was purchased by the bank, and endorsed by it to Messrs.
Baring, Brothers & Co., of London, and by them for value'was
endorsed, pay the order of N. M. Rothschild, EDq.; and by him it
was directed to be paid to Messieurs De Rothschild, Brothers, or
order, of Paris, for value in account.
3Q

734

SUPREME CbURT.
Bank of the United States v. The United States.

This bilJ on presentation not being paid, was protested, and was
afterwards taken up on account of the first endorser by Hottinguer
& Co., who also paid the costs, &c., and charged the whole sum to
the Bank of the United States. Notice of the non-payment of this
bill was given, in due time, to the drawer; and also that the bank
claimed of the government interest, costs, and fifteen per cent. damages on the bill. The government accounted to and paid the
banli the principal of the bill and the costs, but refused to pay the
damages.,
Sometime after the protest, a dividend on the stock held by the
United States haying been declared by the bank, it retained a part
of the dividend to cover the above damages. A suit being brought
against the bank, by tue government, to recover the dividend thus
withheld, the bank set up as an offset the fifteen per cent. damages
claimed on the above bill
On.the trial, the court held, and so instructed the jury, that the
action was maintainable. That the set-off or credit claimed by the
defendants was governed by the statute of Maryland. That- if the
bank had been the holder of the bill, at the time of the protest,. it
would, under the statute, be entitled to the damages claimed; but
that it must be viewed as endorser, and consequently could not recover such damages, unless upon proof that they had been actually
paid by the bank. To this charge the defendant's counsel excepted,
and this brings before the court the questions for consideration.
Before we consider the rulings of the court excepted to, it may not
be improper to notice the structure of the bill, which has been much
commented on by the counsel; though not having been excepted to
by the government, it is not a matter for decision.
It is supposed not to be a bill of exchange, as it was drawn payable out of a particular fund. This seems not to be the character
of the bill. It was drawn for a -certain sum, and the drawer then
states on what account such sum was due from the French government. But there was no restriction as to what moneys or appropriation out of which the bill should be paid. This could in no sense
restrain the negotiability of the instruinent. It has the frame, character, and effect, of a bill of exchange. It was so called and treated
by the secretary of the treasury who drew it; by his successor who
had. some correspondence in regard to it ; by the attorney-general
to whom it was submitted for hisopinion, by Congress ; and by the

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

'735"

Bank of the United'States v. The United States.

eminent bankers in Europe through whom it was negotiated and
paid.
That the United States can sustain an action agaiiist the bank, to.
recover a dividend declared in their favouris undoubted. t'his
seems to have been doubted by the counsel for the bank in the Circuit Court, but the objection has been abandoned in this court. Nor
can there be any question of the right of the bank to'set ul in this
case, by way of offset, the damages iii controversy,- if the claim for
damages be sustainable. This right is not contested by'the-a-ttorneygeneral.
The main point'in the case depends upon the construction of the
Maryland. statute, which applies to this district. It is sigular that
this statute, which was enacted 'in i795, inregard to 'the question
now before us, ha$ never been construed by the local courts. And
the same may be said of other and prior statutes of Maryland, containing similar provisions.
The first section of the act provides, "that upon all bills of exchange hereafter drawn in this state, on any person, corporation,
company, or society, in any foreign country, and regularly'ptotested,
the o*ner or holder of sucl bill, or the person or persons, company,
society, or corporation, entitled to the "same, shall have a right to
receive and recover so much current money as will purchase-a good
bill of exchange of the same time of-payment, and upon the same
place, at the current exchange of such- bills.' and also fifteen per
cent. damages upon the valie of the principal sum:'mentioned in
such bill, and costs of protest, together with legal interest u on-the
value of the principal sum mentioned in such bill ftom the time 'of
protest, until the principal and damages are paid and satisfied: and
if any endorser.of such bill shall pay to the holder, or the person or
persons, company, society, or corporation, entitled to the same, the
value of the principal, and the damages-and interest as aforesaid,
such endorser shall have a right to receive and recover the sum
paid, with legal interest upon the same, from: the drawer, or any
other person or persons, company, society, or corporation, liable to
such endorser upon such bill of exchange."
That the holder of a foreigi bill, or other.person entitled to it,
may recover, under this statute, from the dr-awer, in case of protest,
a sum that will purchase a similar bill of the same amount, together
with fifteen per'cent, damages on the principal sum, is admitted.

736

SUPREME COURT.
Bank of Ihe United States v. The United States.

But it is insisted that the bank paid the bill as endorser, and that as
there is no proof that it paid the fifteen per cent. damages, they are
not recoverable under the statute. The first part of the section gives
to the .holder of a protested bill its value at the place drawn, the
fifteen per cent. damages, and interest upon the value of the principal sum. The latter part of the section gives to the endorser, who'
has paid to. the holder the value of the principal, the damages and
interest on the entire sum paid, with legal interest. So that while
the holder of the bil xecovers only interest upon the principal sum,
the endorser is entitled to interest on the ,whole sum paid by-him.
And to give interest on this sum seems to have been the object of
the latter clause of this section.
Had the bank retained the bill until its presentation and protest,
there could be *no question of its right, as holder, to the damages
claimed. It endorsed the bill to Baring, Brothers .and Co., and they
to Rothschild, who endorsed it to De Rothschild and Brothers. These
last were the holders, and had not the bill been paid,.supra protest,
on account of the bank, as first endorser, they would have been entitled to the damages. Hottinguer and Co., having paid the bill forthe honour of the bank, became the holders, and could recover the
damages from it or the drawer. But they being the depositories of
the bank, charged it with the aiount they paid, by which the bank
was remitted to its original character as payee and holder of the bill.
In this light the bank was viewed and treated by the government,
for it paid, not only the principal sum and interest to the bank, but
also the costs of protest and other expenses chargeable under the
laws of France. But the damages allowed "by the statute were
refused.
It has been intimated that these damages must be considered as a
penalty, and" not as a part of the bill. This is a mistaken view of the
subject.
Had there been no statute, the bank, as the holder of the bill,
would have been equally.entitled to damages. They would have
been claimed on a different principle, and might have been of a greater
or less amount according to circumstances. The origin and character
of a bill of exchange are found in the law-merchant-: that law
which perva:des the commercial world, and which, though founded
on usage, has become as fixed and definite as any other branch of the,
law. Under this law the drawer of a bill in this country pyable in

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

737

Bank of the United States v. The United States.

a foreign country is liable, should such bill be protested,-not only
for the costs of protest and other incidental charges, but 'also to reexchange'on, the.bill. The exchange is sometimes direct, at other
,times 3ircuitous; depending in some degree upon tlhe commercial
intercourse between the countries where the bill is drawn, and where
it is made payable. Between this country ".nd France, the exchange
is often, if not generally, by the way of London.
Th4 bill'untder consideration having been protested at paris for
non-payment, the holder under the -general commercial law was
entitled to a-bill drawn at, that place, payable in this city, for such
sum as would pay the original bill at Paris, including costs of
protest and other legal charges. ' This is re-exchange, and it varies,
as must be seen, with the fluctuations of commercial intercourse; influenced somewhat by local circumstances and the general state of the
money market. In some instances, owing to peculiar circumstances,
re-exchange has been found to exceed forty or even fifty per cent.
To avoid so ruinous a charge, so uncertain a rule of damages,, and
one so difficult to establish by evidence, the state of Maryland, -and
almost all the other states of the Union, have fixed, by legislation,
a certain amount of damages on protested foreign bills, in lieu of reexchange. Experience has shown that this is a judicious regulation.
It relieves the parties to the bill'from great uncertainty, and promotes
punctuality by showing the drawer what damages he must pay on
the dishonour of his bill:. Fifteen per cent. on the principal sum,
whi6h the statute adopts, may be greater than the actual re-exchange
in the present case. But, whether this be so or not is not open for
inquiry. It is believed that if this per cent. excluded the re-exchange,
at the time this bill was protested, there are many other cases in
which itwould fall short of that charge. The statute has, probably,
fixed an amount which, would be an average charge for re-exchange.
This being the basis of the act, the damages cannot be considered
as a penalty. The damages'given by.he statute are as much a part
of the contract as the interest. On this point there is' believed to
.be no difference of opinion among enlightened courts -or commercial men.
The doctrine of re-dxchange is founded upon eqitable principles.
*A bill is drawn in this country, payable at Paris, in France. -The
payee gives, a.premium for it under the expectation of receiving the
amount at.the tim6 and place' where the bill is made payable. It is
VOL. H.-93
3Q 2

738

SUPREME COURT.
Ba nk of the Unijed States v. The United States.,

protested for non-payment. Now the payee and holder is entitled
to the' amount of the bill in Paris. The same- sum paid in this
country, including costs of protest and other charges, is not an indemnity. The holder can onlybe remunerated by paying to him, at
Paris, the principal, with costs and charges; or by paying to him in
this country those sums, together with the difference in value betweeh
the whole sum at Paris, and'the same amount in this country. And
this ldifference in value is ascertained by the premium on a bill drawn
in Paris and ,aPayable in this country, which should sell at Paris
for the sum claimed. The statute of Maryland then is founded on
equitable considerations, although the rule of damages may be cons' 'ered arbitrary, as it does not yield to circumstances.
In this case the bank purchased the bill from the government and
paid for it. It -vassold and transferred by the bank. But the bill
not being paid to the holder, the bank paid the amount of it, including the costs of protest and other charges, to Hottinguer and Co., at
Paris, who had taken it up supra protest, for the honour of the first
endorser. The bank, in this manner, came again into possession of
the bill, the endorsements, in effect, being stricken out. In a commercial and legal- sense, then, the bank is the holder of the bill, and
has the same claim for damages-as if it had never been endorsed..
Had7 the government been suable by the bank, it must have declared
61d recovered as payee and holder, and not as endorser of the bill.
'N9 objection is taken, in the bill of exceptions, as to the liability
of the government to damages, on a protested bill of exchange drawn
by it, the same as an individual. No such question, therefore, arises
in this case. As the holder of a protested bill, the government exacts
damages; it would seem to be equitable, therefore, that as drawer
under like circunistafices, it should pay them.
Upon the whole, we think, that in view of the circumstances of
this case, the bank is entitled to the fifteen per cent. damages, under
the Maryland statute, and that, consequently, the instructions of the
Circuit Court were erroneous. The judgment of that court is, therefore, reversed, and the cause is remanded to that'court, and a venire
de -novo is awarded, &c.
Mr. Justice CATRON.By the instructions giveA by the Circuit Court, the controversy is
made to turn on the construction of the statute of Maryland; nor does

YANUARY TERM, 1844.

739

Bank of the United .States v, The United. States.

the record 'raise any question on the transaction growing out of the
fact, that it was one 'between.governments, to obtain a sum of money
due from the one to the other in which the corporation: acted as" an
instrument and agentin a 'form suggested by itself, to obtain .the
money. For instance:- if it be true, that the' United States, in fact,
received no money :from the bank for the bill, it not having been
charged to the bank; this being found, with the ad'ditional fact, that
the parties intended 'b await the event opayment, or-refusal, on the.
part of France, and let the bank hold- and .use the money awaiting,
the event ; then the question, on -the equity of the case may arise.
But the jury did not -pass on any such facts, the instruction .given
.rendering the inquiry .unneessary; and so -it cut Wff every other
question the plaintiff might have raised in opposition to the offset
claimed.
The foregoing is givbn merely.as an instance; to show that no
question arises on the record, but, on the. construction, of the .act
of 1786.
The statute provides for two classes of cases: 1st, "the owner or"
holder of the protested bill, or the person or.persons, company, society,
or corporation entitled to the same;" and 2dly, "any endorser of the
bill who should pay to thb older, or the person or:persons, comp-any,
society, or corporation .entitlea to the same, the -value of ihe principal,
and the damages and interest.".
In the first class, the "owner or holder,.' &c., shall h4a-e a right
to receive. and recover so .much current money as.will purchase .
good bill o exchange Vff thesame thne of payment, an4. upon the
same place, at the current exchange of such bills, and also fifteen -per
cent. daifiages upon the value of the - rincipal -sum mentioned in such
bill, and-costs of protest, together with legaj interest upon the -value
of the.priticipal sum mentioned itt such bill, from the time of protest,
until the principal and damages are paid and.satisfied;
In the second clas, the endorser wvho has paid the principal,
damages. and interest, -si all have a rigbto 6rceive aid recover the
sum paid,'with legal inter6st upon the same, from the -draeror any
other person or persons, idmpany, society, or corporation, liable, to
such endorser upon such bill of-exchange.
It is not necessary to inquire whether this statute includes all possible cases, and if it does not, by what law the cases. so unprovided
for would be governed, because the bank is seeking, in this instance,

740

SUPREME COURT.
Bank of the United States v. The United States.

to- bring itself within the statute; unless it does so, the precise claim
of fifteen per cent. cannot be sustained. The charge of the court
below was twofold.
1. That the case was governed by the law of Maryland, and
2. Construing that law.
The bill of exceptions includes both points; but this court has
proceeded to examine and decide the cause on the second only,
passing over the first.
The bank must then brimg itself within one of the two classes
'above described; let us examine them in order.
Was the bank at the time When its present rights accrued, the
Cowner or holder of the bill."
I say at the time its present rights
accrued, because this general proposition includes the rights acquired
at the time qf protest, or acquired subsequently-each of which
branches must be separately examined.
The bill was endorsed to Messrs. Baring, Brothars and Co., of
London, on some day which the record does not state: that it was
sold to the Barings, and not sent over for collection, is not controverted,
nor open to question.
It was then passed by endorsement to- N. M. Rothschild, and
from him to the Messrs. Rothschild in Paris, in whose possession it
is found on the day that it became due. It was at their request that
a demand was made, by the notary, for payment, and upon refusal,
that the bill was protested. So far,- they appear to have. been, and
no doubt were, both the " owners and holders of the bill," and the
only "persons entitled to the same' at the time of the protest."
Hottinguer and Co. intervenedimmediately ater protest, and paid
the bill for the, honour of the bank. What rights were tlen
acquired?
It -will not be necesiary to examine and decide whether they
acquired a right to fifteendper cent. damages or not; or to comment
upon the want of harmony in the law, if it were to allow to a volunteer, who bad no right to complain of anybody, the same damages
which it gives to a disappointed 'and suffering party expressly because he has been put to great inconvenience and to hazard of discredit, by the omission of the drawer to provid the necessary funds
to meet the bill. The books and cases all recognise the right of
such a volunteer to pyincipal, interestj and costs. If Hottinguer and"
Co. were. the parties to-Ahis suit, it would become necessary to ex-

JANUARY

TERM, 1844.

741

Baik of the United States v. The United States.

amine the question of their claim to damages ; but we are now investigating the rights of the bank.

Granting that the Messrs. Rothschild, immediately upon protest,
became vested with the right, under the statute, to "receive and
recover" from the drawer fifteen per cent.-damages in addition to
the other sum pointed out in the law; and granting also.for the sake
of ihe argument, that all these rights passed to M. Hottinguer, with

the"delivery of the bill, it is clear that he was vested with a rightthat he could exercise or not at his pleasure.

If be forbore to claim

the damages; he mutilated, the rights attached to the bill, supposing
all the rights of the parties to be transferred with the bill from one to
another. His right to relinquish the damages cannot well be disputed.

It was -property, and could be given away.

It is not our

province to inquire into his reasons; we can deal only with facts.
It appearg from the record, that instead of charging fifteen per cent.
damages, he c6ntented himself with charging a commission of onehalf per cent., amounting to 24,283 francs and 33 centimes; less
than 5000 dollars. This commission may have been paid to him
by the bank, and it appears from a report from the first auditor's
office, dated July 29,.1837, that this 'ommission would be paid by
the United States to the bank upon presentation of a proper voucher.
There is nothing in the record to show that Hottinguer and Co.,
even up to this time, sanction this claim of fifteen per cent., or that
the bank intends to pay it over -to Hottinguer and Co., if it shall
succeed in compelling the United States to, pay it. On the contrary,
the blaim of the bank hppears to be prosecuted for its own -benefit;
and the result will be that the -bank, if it succeeds in this suit, will
pay to Hottinguer, anl Co. less than $5000, and keep $165,000
for itself.

At the time of 'the protest, and immediately afterwards, comprehending the payment supra protest, and protest itself, either Rothschild or Hottinguer and Co. were the "'owners or holders" of the.
bill, as described in the first class of the statute, and of course no
rights whatever accrued to the bank. Did it subsequently acquire
any?
In -what particular manner the bill was transferred by Hottinguer
and Co. to the bank after pr6test and payment-whether by general
or special endorsement,-or by a receipt upon the bill-the record
does not show. It only says that "the bill of ecchange and protest'

74t

SUPREME C.OURT
Bank, of the United States t. The United States.

were transmitted to the bank, which thereby, and by reason of the
premise6, became and were again holders and owners of the same."
But the claim for. fifteen, per cent. damages had been voluntarily
waived, as we have seen, :by Hottinguer and Co., and it is not easy
to see Jiow any person claiming under them could have any more
rights than those 'whiCh the assignors chose to insist upon. The
mere possession of the bill is not sufficient, because that possession
was accompanied by a coteniporaneous declaration that Hottinguer
and Co. intended to claim nothing more than one-half per cent. commission.
It is not perceived, then, how the bank can bring itself within the
class of cases provided' for in the first branch of the statute. is it
within the secohd?
This depends entirely upon the answer to the question, has it, as
endorser, paid the damages to the owner or- holder of the bill, or to
anly one? 'If it has, the record does not show it. OL. the contrary,
all that it has paid wai-the commission of a half per cent. to Hottitguer and Co., if indeed it has paid that, for there is no evidence
of it. The propriety of the statute is not the subject of examination;
but it may be remarked that it appears to be founded on reason and
justice. Every successive endorser, as he transfers a bill of exchange,
receives from the endorsee its full value; and being thus reimbursed
for his outlay-in the purchase of the bill, the inconvenience which
falls upon somebody when the bill is protested does not touch him.
His acc6unt is already balanced. The reason therefore for allowing
damages utterly ceases as to him. He has no fresh bill to purchase,
either by re-exchange or in any other manner. But when he is made
responsible, as he may 'be, to the holder, for the amount of the bill
and damages, it is fair and reasonable that the same liability should
travel upward until it is ultimately fastened upon the drawer; each
endorser being obliged to refund to the one below him exactly what
that one has been compelled to pay. But the bank has not paid
these damages, and consequently is not Wtithin the second class of
cases.

Being not within the statute at all, the claim for damages cannot
be sustained.
The argument that the fifteen per cent. is not damages, but exchange, is entirely unsound, as I conceive, in this case. The statute
gives exchange from the place of drawing, interest, costs of protest,

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

743

Bank of the United States v. The United States.

and fifteen per cent. damages, in addition. The first is indemnity;
the second a penalty. By commercial men the first is construed
liberally, as within the general rule governing bills of exchange,
with the difference of estimating the exchange from the place of
drawing, instead of re-exchange; the right to the penalty is strictly
construed, according to the words of the statute. Its plain meaning
must govern the merchant and business man; for him it was made.
He is told that the owner of a bill, at the time of its protest, shall be
entitled to fifteen per cent. damages from 'he drawer, or endorser, in
every case; and that the endorser shall be entitled to the same, (from
the drawer, or a prior endorser,) provided the owner makes him pay
the fifteen per cent. ; not otherwise. And this I understand to have
been the uniform mode of proceeding under the statute by the merchants of Maryland, under the 1st and 3d sections of the act; nor
does it appear by the book of reports of that state, that this interpretation by business men has ever been questioned in the courts of
justice there. For the reasons stated, I think the instruction given
to the jury in the Circuit Court was proper, and that the judgment
ought to be affirmed.
Mr. Justice WAYNE.
I concur in the opinion that the judgment of the court below ought
to be reversed, but not for the reasons given in the opinion of the
court.
ORDER.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States, for the Eastern District
of Pennsylvania, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, It is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that
the judgment of said Circuit Court in this cause be, and the same is
hereby reversed; and that this cause be, and the same is hereby
remanded to the said Circuit Court, to award a venirefacias de novo.
Note by tie Reporter.-The Chief Justice did not sit i1 this case, and his opinion
is therefore placed in an appendix.

