SUPREME COURT.

PETER

HARMONY AND OTHERS, CLAIMANTS OF THE BRIG MALER
ADHEL, v. THE UNITED STATES.

THE UNITED STATES V. THE CARGO OF THE BRIG M

,ExADHEL.

Under the act of Congress of March 3, 1819,ch. 75, (200,) to protect the commerce
of the United States and punish the crime of piracy, any armed vessel may
be seized and brought in, or any vessel the crew-whereof may be armed, and
which shall have attempted or committed any piratical aggression, search,
restraint, depredation, or seizure upon any, vessel; and such offending vessel
may be condemned and sold, the proceeds whereof to be distributed between
the United States and the captors, at the discretion of the court.
It is no matter whether the vessel be armed for offence or defence, provided she
commits the unlawful acts specified.
To bring a vessel within the act it is not necessary that there should be either
actual plunder or an intent to plunder- if the act be committed from hatred,
or an abuse of power, or a spirit of mischief, it is sufficient.
The word "piratical' in the act is not to be limited in its construction o such
acts as by the laws of nations are denominated piracy, but includes such as
pirates are in the habit of committing.
A piratical aggression, search, restraint, or seizure is as much within the act as
a piratical depredation.
The innocence or ignorance on the part of the owner of these prohibited acts,
will not exempt the vessel from condemnation.
The condemnation of the cargo is not authorized by the act of 1819.
Neither does the law of nations require the condemnation of the cargo for petty
offences, unless the owner thereof co-operates in, and authorizes the unlawful
act. An exception exists in the enforcement of belligerent rights.
Costs in the admiralty are in the sound discretibn of the court, and no appellate
court should interfere with that discretion, unless under peculiar circumstances.
Although not per se the proper subject of an appeal, yet they can be taken notice
of incidentally, as connected with the principal aecree.
In the present case, as the innocence of the owners was established, it was
proper to throw the costs upon the vessel, which was condemned, to the exclusion of the cargo, which was liberated.

Tins case came up by appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States, for the district of Maryland, having originated in the District
Court.
On or about the 30th of June, 1840, the brig Malek Adhel sailed
from New York bound to Guayamas, in California, under the command of Joseph Nunez. The vessel was armed with a cannon and

JANUARY

TERM, 1844.

United 1states v. Brig Malek

211

AdheL

some ammunition, and there were also pistols and daggers on board.
It appeared fron the evidence, which is hereinafter particularly set
forth, that she stopped several vessels upon the high seas, and at
length put into the port of Fayal, where she remained for some days.
Departing thence, she arrived at Bahia, in Brazil, about the twentyfirst of August, 1840, where she was seized by the Enterprize, a
vessel, of war belonging to the United States, and sent into the poit
of Baltimore for adjudication. A libel was there filed against vessel
and cargo upon five counts, all founded upon the act of Congress to
protect the commerce of the United States, and to punish the crime
of piracy, passed on the 3d. of March, 1819, ch. 76, (20.) Two
other counts were afterwards added in an amended information,
charging the acts complained of to have been done in violation of
the laws of nations.
A claim was filed for the brig, her tackle, apparel, fdrniture, and
cargo, on behalf of Peter Harmony, Leonardo Swarez, and Bernard
Graham.
The evidence produced upon the trial in the District Court, mill
be recapitulated when the proceedings before the Circuit Court are
stated, under which evidence the case was argued, together with
the following admission of the proctors for the United States
United States
V.
District Cour, United States.
The Malek Adhel and cargo. )
The proctors of .the United States im,this case admit, for the purposes of this case, and to have the same effect as if fully proven, that
the claimants were, when the Malek _Adhel left New-York, the exclusive owners of that vessel, and were such owners dunng the
period the acts stated in the information are alleged by the United
States to have been done. And they also admit, that the claiuaants
never contemplated or authorized said acts. They further admit that
the equipments of thesaid vessel when she left New York, and ever
afterwards, were the usual equipments of a vessel bf her class, or. an
innocent commercial voyage from that port to Guayamas, the voyage
stated mn the evidence in this case.
NATH'L WILLIAMS,
and RvEnny JoHisoq,
Baltimore, 15 June, 1841.
Proctorsfor the United Staes.
The District Court condemned the vessel, restored the cargo to
the claimants, apportioned a part of the costs upon the claunants, and
directed the residue to be feducted from the proceeds of the property

212

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Brig Malek Adhel.

condemned. Both parties appealed from this decree; the claimants
from the condemnation of the vessel, and the United States from that
part of it which restored the cargo.
The cause came before the Circuit Court upon the evidence winch
had been given before the District Court, (reduced to writing by consent,) and upon additional evidence which is set forth in the following
deposition. It was corroborated in its main points by the evidence
of two other persons.
John Myers, a witness, produced and examined oil the part of the
United States, deposes as follows That he was not first mate when he joined the Malek Adhel,
Peterson was first mate, witness joined her 23d June, 1840. On
Friday, afterwards, Peterson came on board, hauled the vessel out
into the stream. On Sunday, Captain Nunez told Peterson to go on
shore on account of a quarrel, Peterson was intoxicated, witness
was then made first mate, witness told the captain, that one of the
crew 4W R. Crocker) was competent to go out as second mate, and
he was then promoted to that office. On Tuesday, 30th June, took
pilot, got under weigh about ten or eleven o'clock that day, and
went to sea, discharged the pilot on afternoon of same day; fourth
or fifth day out, captain said the chronometer wouldn't speak, had
forgotten to wind it up,. on the 6th of July, saw a vessel standing to
the northward, and we to the eastward, five or six miles apart; ran
down to the vessel and hove mamtopsail back; ran to leeward and
then to windward of her, and fired a blank cartridge, hailed the
vessel and asked "where from?" they said from Savannah, bound
to Liverpool, wehailed her again, and told -her to send her boat
alongside, she sent her boat with four men and an officer, and they
came alongside, Captain Nunez asked if they had a chronometer;
officer in the boat said he did not know whether they had or not,
would go on board and see, went on board and returned in about
half an hour with a chronometer; brought it -on board, and while
-we were regulating our chronometer, our captain and four men went
on board the other vessel, which was the "cMadras, of Hull ;" captam stayed on board a short time and then returned, they then took
their chronometer and returned to their vessel, the Madras, while
we were hoisting our boat up and securing her, the Madras made
sail, as soon as the boat was secured, we ran to leeward some distance, and fired another blank cartridge, but not in tne direction of
the Madras, and then proceeded on our own course. Next, about

JANUARY

TERM, 1844.

212

United States v. Brig Malek Adhel.

9th or 10th July, a vessel was -standing to the westward, we to the
eastward, captain said he would run after the vessel and catch her,
as he wanted to send. a letter to New York; made sail after her, and
finding we did not come up very Thst, we fired a blank cartridge,
they still not taking any notice, our captain told the men to load a
gun with shot; loaded the gun with shot and fired, when the other
vessel hove her maintopsail back, we were about-half a mile apart;
we both had our American flag flying at first; when the second shot
was fired, Captain Nunez ordered the Mexican or 06lumbian flag tw"
be hoisted, we then hailed, they said they were from Liverpool,
bound to Charleston, her name was the brig " Sullivan ;" she was
an American vessel, had cSullivan, New York," on her stem,
hailed her, and told her to send a boat alongside, while they were
coming, our captain told Martin (called Peter Roberts'in the shipping
articles) to tell the-crew not to speak any English, while the boat
was alongside, this order the captain first told him in Spanish, then
in English, when the boat came alongside, they asked where we
were from, captain toldMartin in Spanish, to say, we were from
Vera Cruz, bound to Barcelona, and out forty-five days; Martin did
so, our captain then told him we wan4ed some lamp-oil, the officer
in the other boat said he did not know whether they had any, but he
would go on board and see, when they reached their own vessel,
they hoisted their boat, and proceeded on their course, we had lampoil sufficient to last us twelve months, after they proceeded on their
course, we made sail likewise, ran to leeward and fired, a shot at
her; this fire our captain ordered Martin to make, he, (Martin,)
generally acted as gunner. Martin belonged to Malaga, and spoke
Spanish, at the time of second fire, the vessels were about an eighth
of a mile apart, hailing distance, we then kept on, and she did the
same, the gun was fired at her; we were then standing to eastward,
she to westward, did not see where the ball struck.
The next vessel we saw and spoke, was the " Ten Brothers ;"
this was two or three days after the affair with the Sullivan, passed
her without doing any thing. Next vessel we met, was the ccVigilant, of Newcastle, England;" spoke her; she showed -English
colours; hailed her, and told her to send- her boat alongside, she did
so. Nunez asked if they had a chronometer; they said they had
none, they were out of water, and wanted bread; -we gave thera
two small barrels ana some bread, by our captain's orders, we went
on our course. The next vessel we met was the San Domingo,

214

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Brig Malek Adhel.

two days afterwards, our captain was acquainted with the passengem on board, he asked them, to dine with him, which they did,
after they left, Captain Nunez told witness, that the passenger had
been a slaver, and was just returning from a prosperous voyage,
the vessel belonged to Terceira, one of the Western Islands, she
was Portuguese, we laid together that night, and the next morning
the Portuguese sent on board of us to buy provisions; we then parted company, and. two or three days after, went into Fayal, Nuiez
said his intention m-going to Fayal, was to repair the vessel, and get
his chronometer rited, remained there five or six days, had one
carpenter employed four days, who did some slight work, he made
a side ladder and some awmng extensions, and put her to her head
to find out leak. The principal leak was about eight or ten inches
above the water line, the vessel leaked at sea, but not at Fayal,
leaked as bad after we left there as she did before, the place of the
leak discovered at Rio, there never, having been oakum at all m
that part of the seam, could put a knife in the seam, leak came into
cabin, that leak was not stopped at Fayal.
We took in at Fayal potatoes, bread, and beef, for the use of the
crew, we also took in two men as passengers, and a cabin boy;
one of the passengers was named Silvie and the other Curry, the
boy is here, the last I saw of the passengers was at Rio, got under
weigh from Fayal on Tuesday; do not know whether Nunez knew
the two passengers before he saw them at Fayal, came to anchor
and waited until Wednesday; there was a pleasure-party to come
oa board to sail about the harbour; in attempting to tack she missed
stays, captain at the helm, missed stays a second time, we were
about twenty yards from the rocks, Nunez knew nothing of the
usages of an American.vessel before we left New York, I always
worked the vessel myself, Nunez might have known, but he did
not speak English well enough to make the men understand. After
the sailing match about the harbour, we left Fayal with the whaling
vessel Minerva, from New Bedford, Nunez went. on board of her
and took the chronometer to have it rated, had had nothing done
with it at Fayal, Nunez knew nothing about managing a ctronometer, though it is the captain's duty. Captain Nunez remained on
board the Minerva five or six hours, he went on shore at Fayal
before we had our sails furled, he went in a shore boat. After
Nunez came from the Minerva we made sail and proceeded on our
course, he brought chronometer with him. next day we saw a yes-

JANUARY

TERM, 1844.

215

United States v. Brig Malek Adhel.

sel standing to westward with all sail set, going directly before the
wind, we were standing to southward, Nunez ordered to chase
her; finding we did not come -up very fast we fired, by Nunez's.
orders, a blank cartridge towards her; she still went on her course;
Nunez ordered one of the guns to he shotted and fired at her, which
was don, she then hove her maintop back, we were then about a
mile astern of her,. we iounded to, to fire at her; we came up, hailed
her; she said she was from Palermo, bound to Boston, she was the
"Emily Wilder;" told her to send her boat .alongside with their
chronometer, they came aion',side with the chronometer; -we rated
ours by it; I rated it and found a difference of time, and noted it in
the log-book; -after comparing the time of the two, they then took
chronometer and. went on board again, I made the entry in the logbook, we each made sail and stood on our course, they asked us
no questions, except-where we -were o-rom, Nunez said, from New
York, bounded around Cape Hom , we stood to southward until 4th
of August, the day before, captain said he was going to Rio, I told
him it was a bad place to go, because it was a rendezvous for American vessels of war; on the 4th of August Nunez came. on deck
about half-past seven in the evening, and found fault with some
orders witness had been giving, and Nunez- told me he did not want
me to-do more work on board the slp, and 1 accordingly went ofT
duty; we ran on our course, that- night Captan Nunez had the
watch from eight to twelve, I heard a noise on board, went up.and,
saw a vessel close ahead on the weather bow, when we came up
Nunez hailed her, ant told them to heave the maintop back;, they
did so, and we did the same, this was about thn,o'clock at night;
hailed them again, and told them to send their boat anoard of us with
the captain and his papers; this they said they could not do, as their
boat leaked and the night was dark, Nunez then got angry and told
us to double shot the gun, it was done, and fired towards the strange
vessel, Martin directed the gun, we were within close hailingdistance.
Curry, the forementioned passenger, then hailed m English and told
them again to send their boat; the-other captam answered in Portuguese or Spanish. Curry told witness that the answer was; "cthey
might sink their brig, hut he could not come on board." Nunez
then told us to lower our boat and go on board the strange brig;
Curry, Crocker, the second mate, Peter Roberts, (Mfartin,) John
Gray, and Dill or Smith, then went on board the stranger; Curry
and Cro6ker had each a pair of pistols, they were buckled in a belt

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Brig. Malek Adhel.

round their bolies, our boat returned m about three quarters of an
hour with Curry and the captain of the strange brig, and three of her
men, Curry and the captain came on board the Idalek Adhel, the
men remained m their boat alongside, the strange captain gave
Nunez a tin box with the ship's papers, I believe, ship's papers are
carried in such boxes. Curry and Captain Nunez took theta down
.below, strange captain remained on deck; I saw them down the
cormnaron-way, examining the papers in the cabin, they had them
.about a quarter of an Jiour, and then brought them up and gave them
tb the Portuguese captain, Nunez spoke English and told Curry to
-tell strang captain -he must pay twenty dollars for the shot Nunez
had ired at'him, and ten dollars for a keg of oil which had been
knocked over by the recoil of the gun. Nunez also told Curry in
English to look and see if there were any guns and powder on board
the other vessel, and if there were any, to spike the guns and.bring
the powder on boird, and see if any sweetmeats were on board, and
bring them on board also, they then shoved off, Curry with them,
and went to the Portuguese vessel,. Nunez told me that the Portuguese vessel was from Rio Grande, bound to Oporto, with a cargo
of hides and horns; 'in
half an hour after our boat returned with those
who originally went on board the Portuguese vessel, and brought a
jar of sweetmeats, one dog, and twenty dollars for the shot, after
the boat was secured Captain Nunez put me on duty.agan, 'this
was two o'clock in the morning; Curry told me he had got twenty
dollars for the shot, but was ashamed 'toask for the. other ten for the
oil; I saw Curry give the captain the money in Spanish -dollars,
Curry said'he wouldn't take Brazilian money, whicn was first offered
him .by the Portguese captain, after that we left the vessel and proceeded on our course. The next vessel we met was on the 10th or
12th of August; they were standing to northward, -we to southward,
when she came.abeam of. us, she tacked ship and went in the same
direction with.us; in about two hours after we hove our maintop
back and ran foul of each other, Captam Nunez got enraged and
told them to shot the gun and fire at the stranger; it was done, we
fired a second shot; Nunez ordered the second shot.
When'the first shot was fired, we were within close hailing distance, and also, when each shot was fired, we fired five times, g'm
shotted each time. After the fifth fire all our powder was gone.
Nunez then told Martin something witness did pot.understand, and
Martin then told the crew, he (Captain Nunez)'said he wQuld give

JANUARY TERM,

1844.

217

United States v. Brig Malek Adhel.
$500 to any -volunteersof hIs crew, who would go and bring tfe captam aboard. Nunez asked me to go. I told him,-I did not like it.
He told me not to be afraid, and gave me his dirk; I threw the dirk
down on the deck, and said to Nunez, I was afraid to go on board
wiilr the boat, for fear they would throw something m the long boat
and sink her, when we were alongside. Nunez said, he wanted to
bring the other captaiiibn board the Malek, and give him twentyfive lashes, we were then some distance astern. Nunez told-Martin
to take two men, Dell and Helm, and go on board, they did so, and
remained half an hour; they returned and brought back with them.
the time. I saw one shot go.through the flying jib, it was the second
shot. When Martin came back, he told'N'unez he must send his
chronometer with an officer, and rate it, I took the, chronometer,
went on board the other vessel, and rated it. Strange captain asked
me why Nunez had fired at him, I said I did not know; the captam had ordered it. He asked me where we were bound. I said,
"c God only knows." When I returned to the Malek Adhel, I
told N!nez what had happened, and he laughed. The strange
brig was the cAlbert;" she was an English brig and bound
to Rio, her stem sign was disfigured, she had English colours flying. We then proceeded on our course, and made the Brazils about
the 20th or 21st of August, the land was some miles north of Cape
Antonio. The passengers on board told me they were to go to
Bahia. We got to Balua about six o'clock in the evening, and
Curry, Silvie, and the captain went ashore. They came on board
t,-am about nine o'clock next morning, and Nunez told me to make
ready to clear.the cargo, as he was going to repair his vessel. Nunez
stayed about half an hour on board and went ashore again. Next
morning got all clear, and about, half-past eleven Nunez came on
board, the men told me they would do no more work until they saw
the American consul, this was. told me before Nunez came on
board, wher he came, I told him, he asked me if I wanted to see
the consul too. I said, cc Yes." He then said, " Very well, I will
go ashore and see." 'He went on shore, and the next morning between nine and ten o'clock, he came on board again. He told me
to tell all the crew, who wanted to see the consul, to come aft, and
go on. the larboard side, the whole crew went on the larboard side,.
Martin among them. The second mate, Mr. Crocker, and four or
five men, Want on shore that day; they stayed on shore until about
three o'clock, and then returned. Captain Nunez came on board
VOL. II.-28
T

218

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Brig Malek Adhel.

the next morning, and told me the consul wanted to see me, and
that I must go on shore with him. "Wewent to the consul's office,
and he asked me about these charges. I had kept an account of
some small transactions on a piece of paper; I gave it to the consul.
The captain said I could be discharged, if I desired it, but the consul said, " Not until the affair was settled." By small transactions,
witness means the firing, &c. Captain Nunez admitted that it was
all right, as I had put it down. I told the American consul the same
story as I am now telling. When we were going ashore, Nunez
said, cSIppose I sell the brig, how much she worth " He also
said one man had offered to give him $22,000 for her. I told him
I did not know how much she was worth. I stayed on shore until
two o'clock, and then went on board again, that night, abwt one
or two o'ciock, a vessel ran foul of us, and tore away our jib-boom.
The next morning while we were repairing it, the captain came on
board and told me the consul wanted to see me. I went, returned
afterwards on board, got my clothes and went ashore, where I remamed nine or ten days, went on 'board, afterwards, the American
brig Yankee, and remained there until the Enterprize, a United States
schooner, seized and took the Malek and her crew. There were
four men shipped by the captain at Bahia, after I left the brig; they
were one Portuguese, one Spamard, one English, and one American.
The crew were examined in successicn by the consul. We left
Bahia on the 26th September, under the charge of Lieut. Drayton,
on board the brig; nine men and two officers were put on board,
we then went to Rio, -four of our crew were from the schooner Enterprize, we left Martin and the cook behind at Bahia. The day I
returned from the consul's on board the Malek, Nunez and the cook
had a quarrel, and Nunez struck the c.pok; cook said, " When I shipped, I did not know I shipped on board a slaver." I saw Capt~m
Nunez at Rio, in prison. We stayed at Rio from the 2d of October
until the st of March. We were taken before the authorities at
Rio, 'they let the captain out of prison. I saw him afterward walking about in Rio. I left Rio in the vlalek, 'under the command of
Lieut. Ogden, and with the crew who are now in prison, where
we have been since we arrived. Lieut. Ogden had on board,
besides ourselves, four men and one ndshipman. I kept the logbook of the Malek; Captain Nunez got it from me, to take it to the
consul the day we went before him. It was laid before the consul,
and I never saw it afterwards. The log-book contained some of the

JANUARY TERM, 1844.
United States v. Brig Malek Adhel. _

I.

.

particulars about the firing. (Here a book is shown to the witness.)
This book was kept by the captain. Lieut. Drayton kept a log-book
from Bahia to Rio.
Crosy-Examnatin.
Upon cross-examination, the witness further deposed. While I
was on board the Yakee, a midshipman and four men came on
board and ordered me on board the schooner Enterprize. I was.not
imprisoned at Bahia. Peter Roberts (Martin) was among the men
who went on the larboard side. I do not know whether the pistols
Curry carried were loaded or not; one pistol out of the four was
loaded, I know. The men who accompained Curry were unarmed,
to the best of my knowledge. The Albert answered the hail of the
Malek Adhel. Our brig bad her rlame on the stem. I saw Curry
put the money down on tl.e cabin table. I did not tell any one I
had, seen the money countedout. On- my examination at Bahia, I
stated that Curry had told me that he had received the money. I
do not recollect whether I stated then that I saw it. The cook's
deposition was not taken, that I know of. Silvie and the boy were
in the cabin with Nunez and Curry. I am from Philade]phia, but
have sailed out of New York for the last five years. Have sailed as
mate twice before. Before the offer of $500, made by Nunez to his
crew to board the Albert, he had not ordered the crew, nor had they
refused to go.
Further Cross-Examinationof John Myers.
John Myers, upon his further cross-examination, deposed as fbllows We left Captain Nunez at Bahia. When -we first arrived at Rio,
I did not see him. The second time I went ashore I saw him in
jail. I do-not know how long he remained in jail. We remained
at Rio four months. I never saw Nunez after tlis frigate-Potomac
arrived. The Enterprizeand the Malek Adhel went-into Rio together. Nunez was at liberty on shore after the Enterpnze arrived. I
saw Nunez three or four days before we sailed from Rio, he told
me he was going to take command again of.the Mlek Adhel. Martin went with the rest of the crew before the consul. I saw him in
the consul's office. I never saw Martin at Rio, we left him at Bahia. I saw both Curry and Silvie at IRio, but do not know how they
got there. A vessel bound direct from Bahia to Guayamas would
not stop at Rio. I did not see either Curry or Silvie after the Poto-

220

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Brig Malek Adhel.

mac arrived. I should think the Potomac was at Rio twelre or
fifteen days before we sailed for home.
At November term, 1841, the Circuit Court affirmed the decree
of the District Court, dismissed the appeals, and ordered each party
to pay their respective costs in that court. Both parties appealed to
the Supreme Court.
Z. Collins Lee, and R. Johnson, for the United States.
.Meredith,.and Nelson, (attorney-general,) for the claimants.
Lee, made the f61lowmg points on behalf of the United States, as
appellants Ist. That the cargo of the said vessel was subject to forfeiture, and
ought to have been condemned, and the decree, so far as regards it,
ought to be reversed.
2d. That no part of the costs and expenses incurred in the prosecution should be paid out of the proceeds of the property condemned,
but that Peter Harmony and Co. should be decreed to pay the same.
And on behalf of the United States, as appellees,
3d. That the Malek Adhel, her tackle, apparel, and furniture,
were properly condemned, and that the decree, so far as regards
thi; ought tp be affirmed.
Lee argued that the brig was cc an armed vessel, or a vessel of
which the crew were armed" within the true meaning -nd intent of
the act of Congress of the 3d March, 1819, 3 Story's Laws, p. 1738;
the 1, 2, 3, and 4 sects. of which were continued by the act of 15th
May, 1820, 3 Story, 1798, and afterwards without limitation by the
act of 30th January, 1823, 3 Story, 1814. And in the second place,
that from the evidence exhibited on the record, the aggressions,
restraints, and depredations proved were cc piratical" and such as the
act of Congress contemplated and intended to puih.
And lastly, that, assuming the said brig not tobe can armed vessel" within the meaning of the act, yet the aggressions and depredations perpetrated on the Portuguese vessel were, acdording. to the
law of nations, piratical.
To sustain the above propositions he referred to the following
authorities:Act of Congress of 1790, ch. 36, 1 Story, 82, defining piracy.
Act of 1825, ch. 276, 3 Story, 1999, defining and punishing as
piratical certain offences therein named.

,JANUARY

TERM, 1844.

221

Unifed States v. Brig Malek AdheL

Also, to the rollowing cases .
United States v. Palmer, 3 Wheat. .610, p. 626, as to the construction of the act of 1790 -, The Mananna Flora, 11 Wheat. 37,
and. o show that a single piratical act is sufficient, referred to the
speech of Chief Justice Marshall in the case of Jonathan Robbins,
reported in the appendix to 5 Wheat. p. 8, 12, 3 Wash. C. C. R.
221, 2141. case of United States v. John Jones, 5 Wheat. 145,149,
153, and noteg, 5 Wheat. 412, 192, 2-Azuri, 351; 4 Bla. Coin.
72, defining sea-robbery; 2 East Pleas, 707, Vattel, ch. 15, sect.
226, Grotius, ch. 15, sect. 85, Molloy, 57.
Upon the question of the forfeiture of the cargo.Dodson Adm. Rep. 470, case of The Neptune, .5 Robinson and
Wheaton on Captures, 1 Haggard, 142, case of the Hallen, 3 Dallas 133, case of the Adams, and commented on the opinion of the
court in the case of the Marianna Flora, 11 Wheaton.
.Meredith, for the claimants,
There are two questions in the case.
1, The construction of the act of Congress.
2. The bearing of the evidence.
The innocence of the owners is admitted on the record. They
were sole owners during all the voyage, and engaged 'n a lawful
trade. The vessel was properly equipped for such a voyage, and
the owners had nothing to do with the acts complained of. These
admissions were not .gratuitous but proved; and placed in this formfor convenience.
-Does the act of 1819 reach such a case? She was armed only as
the .voyage required, and the captain departed from the orders of the
owners. It -is an important question, because, if depided in the
affirmative, the risks of slup-owners will be mcreased,.and in violationx of the natural pnnciples of justice.
It is an open question. Some expressions of opinion by the court
in the case of the Marianna Flora appear to recline to the construction of the other side, but there is no decision in any case. The
only question there was one of'damages; the claim of forfeiture was
abandoned by the captors and by the United States.. There was
nothing to call for an opinion as to the construction of the act of 1819.
-The passage quoted by the opposite counsel was in answer to an
argument used at bar that there was nothing suspicious in the case "
but there has been no adjudication -upon the point.

222

SUPREME

COURT.

United States v. Brig Malek Adhel.

If the act of'1819 includes the case of an innocent owner, it must
be because,
1. That such owner was liable under the maritime law, or
2. That Congress intended to extend that law.
1. As to maritime law.
The owner, if liable, must be so rn personam or m rem.
His liability in personam, although varying in some particulars, is
mairdy the same with the liability of an employer at common law.
The master is his agent. In civil cases the captain can sometimes
bind his owner to a greater d&gree than other agents can, but not for
torts. The owner is always responsible for the negligence of his
agent in -acts done within the scope of his authority, but not where
the act is wilful and beyond the authority. And this is equally true
whether the agent was or was not engaged at the time about the
business of his principal.
The whole law is collected in Story on Agency, 456. See also
Skinner's Reports, 228, 1 East, 106, 4 Bamewall and Alderson,.
592, 19 Wendell, 343, cases collected, 1 Hill's Reports, 480.
These cases show that the owner is responsible for negligence or
unskilfulness, but not for wilful torts.
The maritime law has the same rule. 8 T. R. 533, Story on
Agency, 327, sect. 319, Curtis, 195 note, 205 note, 1 Taunton,
567, Ingersoll's Roccus, 23, notes 11, 12, 13, 15, Salkeld, 282,
19 Johnson, 235, referred to in Story's Abbot, 19, 2 Brown's Adnralty Law, 140.
Is the owner bound s rem9
'would be contrary to reason and justice to hold him so. If he
is not bound in damages, why is his vessel responsible P There iq
no moral delinquency m the- owner. The ship, it is true, is considered sometimes as the offender, but only when something is done
for which the owner is responsible, either for his own acts or those
of his agent acting -within the scope of his authority. 2 Brown's
Admiralty, 142, .143.
Thetorts of the master cannot hypothecate the ship, she is seized
only until the captain gives bail. Abbott, 99, note 1, same principle, Duponceau's Bynkershoek, ch.-18, p. 129, 150, 151, 152, 154.
In prize cases there'is no forfeiture except on the presumed liabilitr
of'the owner. The modem doctrine is that contraband does not
affect the ship, or even cargo, if it is put on board without the knowledge of the owner, even by the captain.

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

223

United States r. Brig Malek Adhif.

Bynckershoek, ch. 12, p. 9a, says, that if the owner knows of it,
or the captain is executing the orders of the owner, the vessel is
forfeited-otherwise not. See also 1 Rob. Ad. Rep. 67-70, 104,
130, 3 Rob: Ad. Rep. 143, 178.
The owner is not responsible in damages where the vessel becomes
a pirate. 3 Wash. C. C. R. 262, was a case, of a privateer, where
the owner's bond was liable and ship too, because of an understood
contract to that effect between the government and all privateers.
but not so as to other vessels.
A piratical capture does, not divest the owner of Ins property.
1 Molloy, 88, sect. 31, book 1, ch. 4, 1 Robinson, 81, 229, 6 Robmson, 2!9, 1 Beawes's Lex Mercatona, 6th ed. 364 ; 1 Rolle's
Rep. 285.
Did Congress intend.to extend the provisions of the maritime lawP
Before saying so, the court will look to the injustice of such a cons ruction, and its dangerous consequences to ship-owners. The act
was not intended to repair private losses, but to pumsh crimes; and such
a construction will pumsh one man for offences committed by another.
The state of the country when the act was passed -was referred to
by the other side, to illustrate its meaning. It was shortly after a
general peace, except as to South America. Sailors were discharged
ftom navies, privateers abounded, and the transition was easy to
piracy. In all the cases in this court, the vessels had been privateers. The act, therefore, .did not contemplate merchant vessels
armed for defence, but ships fitted out as privateers. The vessel is
confiscated by the act, but there is a singular omassion as to the cargo.
Why not include it, if merchant vessels were embraced by the act.
The omission was intentional, because on the same day an act was
passed to suppress the slave trade, inwhich the cargo is forfeited as
well as the ship. In 5. Wheat. 338, the court were prepared to construe an act as we contend for, the owners there were said to be innocent, because the ship was in the possession of piratical captors,
5 Wheat. 352. Yet the words of that act- were as peremptory for
that case as the act of 1819 is for ours. In page 357, the court say,
that the vessel would have been restored if she was in possession of
piratical captors, because the owners would have been innocent.
In 13 State Trials, Dawson's case, taking the vessel from the
owners -was itself held to be an act of piracy.
2. What is the bearng of the evidence?
The offences of "caggression, search," &c., must be cpiratical:"

224

SUPREME COURT.
United States v Brig Malek Adhel.

that is, with an intention to commit piracy; not piracy under the law
of 1790, but under the law of nations, because it pumshes the vessels
of other nations as well as our own, and the last section -refers to
piracy under the law of nations, which is sea-robbery. forcible depredation at sea, ammofurandi. At common law there is no piracy.
The English statute did not change the nature of the offence, but
,only the mode of punishing it. Is there any proof of an intention to
commit robbery P if not, the case is not within the act of Congress.
There seems to have been a hallucination in the captain's mind,
bordering on madness, wanted altvays to rate his chronometer. He
had many opportunities to plunder, but did not; some vessels passed
_by, others were supplied with provisions. He did not think he had
done wrong, because he permitted his crew to go freely to the Amencant consul at Bahia, and would not takd Brazilian dollars for the
powder and oil which he had lost.
But the cargo is sought also to be condemned. At first the mformation contained only counts depending upon the act of Congress,
two were afterwards added upon the law of nations, with a view of
reaching the cargo. The capture itself was a harsh measure; the
papers showed the ship to have been American property; the crew
were, faithful to their duty, and it would have been praiseworthy to
have despatched her on her voyage, in charge of the mate. The
protection of commerce does not require that the cargo m this case
should be aimed at as well as the ship. The offence charged in these
two counts is a ,hostile aggression with intent to plunder." If this
is piracy under the law of nations, it is merged m the act of 1819,
but the offences charged are only misdemeanors. 2 Brown's Admiralty Rep. appendix, p. 519.
The Constitution gives Congress power to define and punish pnacies and offences against the laws of nations. If Congress has not
done lit,,
this court cannot pumsh-petty offences.

,Jelson, attorney-general, on.the same side, examined the facts
in-the case as disclosed by the record, and then commented on the

acts-of-1-81 9, '1823"1-825, 1790, to .show the histor, of the legislaiton upon the subject -of pir'acy. The ",restraints, aggressions," &c.,
must'be " piratical," as thatten is understood by the laws of nations.
The 5th section of the act of 1819 deolares that persons who commit piracy, as understood by the laws of nations, shall suffer death.
'The 8th-section of the act of 1790 was said by the court, (5 Wheat.

JANUARY TERM, 1844:

225"

United States v. Brig Malek Adhel.

184, 185, 202, 206,) not to be repealed, this decision was given on
the 18t of March, 1820, and an act of Congress was passed imme*diately thereafter, (15th May, -1820,).the thirr'section of which declared
what should be.piracy, (3 Story, 1798,) making robbery a necessary
ingredient. The act of. 1825, by implication, repeals the Bth sect. of
the act of 1790, by declaring such offences-to be felony. No peron
could be indicted under the acts of Congress as a pirate, because-ffe
act of 1825 says he shall be punished with- death as a felon. The
consequence is, that there is no piracy recognised' by the laws of the
United States, except that known to the law of nations, and the act
of 1819 must be so construed. The offences charged in fhe five first
counts under that aet must, therefore, be shown to be piratical under
the law of nations, that is, committed for the purposes of robbery.
Does the evidence justify this2 The court, acting as a jury, must
acquit unless the affirmative be made out clearly. The acts 6f the
captain are like those of an insane man.
[Mr. JVelson here commented on these acts, in the case of each
vessel successively.]
Ifn the case.of the Palmyra, 12 Wheat. 15, it is .said that a petty
aggression is not a cause of condemnation, unless it indicates a.bad
mind.
Ought the vessel to be condemned?
There is no other law to condemn it except that of 1819. The
policy of that law'was to bear upon armed vessels, or the crews of
wnch were armed. But neither branches of the alternative mcluaes"
this case. The crew cannot be said to -have been armed, within the
meaning of the act, because the agreement says that the vessel had
only ordinary equrpments. All vessels going 'to the Pacific carry
arms for defence. In the case of the Palmyra, the court said, a vessel might be armed for commercial purposes. So here. Why, did
not the act of 1819 include the cargo P becase it struck at privateers
Vho have no cargo. In all revenue laws, the cargo is condemned
as well as the vessel.
If the acts of the mister were piratical, that very fact protects the
owners,.becausethe first offence was against them, in divesting them
of their-poperty ahd converting it to Ins own purposes. He-was
guilty, of barratry, at least. Can the owners lose fheir property
through an act of.piracy
The 8th sect. of the act of 1790, makes
it piracy to run away with a vessel or voluntarily give her up to a
pirate. If this act be in force, the captain was a pirte. All the
VOL. II -29

226

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Brig Malek Adhel.

cases say that piracy does not divest ownership. 5 Wheat. 338,
357, 358. There need not be personal violence in running away
with a ship. 1 Gallison, 247, 253, 256. The proof here shows
that the captain had been negotiating m Fayal for a-sale of the vessel.
Ought the cargo to be condemned?
The act of 1819 elearly does not embrace the cargo, and there
must be something more proved than an.- aggression" or " restraint."
The opposite counsel cannot proceed on a statute for half and the
law of nations for the other half, because Congress has exercised its
power in the premises. How does the law of nations reach the
cargo of an unoffending owner. If the vessel be construed to be the
offender, the cargo is not. In war, the cargo is condemned, but
then different rules apply. The vessel must be taken rn delicto.
The Marianna Flora, 11 Wheat. 40, 57, in which case the capturing vessel was attadked. But, here, the Enterprize was not.
As to costs-they are within the discretion of the court. Dunlap's Practice, 164, 2 Mason, 58, 4 Gallison, 414.
Costs cannot-be appealed from. 3 Peters, 307, 319.
R. Johnson, for the United States, in reply.
There are three questions,
1. What is the true construction of the act of 1819, as to the
vessel ?
2. What is the law of nations as to the cargo)
3. Does the evidence show the ship to be within the act of Congress, and the cargo .to be within the law of nations.
1. The act of Congress had two objects in view, first, to protect
commerce, and second, to punish piracy personally. Piracyhadlieen
in part defined and punished by the act of 1790. That of 1819 was
passed when commerce was suffering, and its object was to punish
piracy up to the'full extent of the law of nations; it is punished
with death.
There are three objections made by the other side,
1. That the act does not cover the case of an innocent owner, but
that the United States mnust always show that the owner was either a
pirate himself or knowingly fitted out his vessel for such purposes.
2. That the vessel must be armed for-Ic offensive purposes," and
that the mere fact of being armed is not enough.
3. That the acts are nat piratical, because it is not shown that they
were done for the purposes of plunder.

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

227

United States v. Brig Malek Adnel.

1. As to the innocence of the owner. Must his guilt be established ? The ltnguage of the act is " to protect merchant vessels
from. piratical aggressions and depredatibns," and the President is
authoiized to instruct officers to send in any armed vessel or crew
which shall have attempted any piratical aggression: upon an American vessel or any other. It is not their business to ask who is the.
owner, the fact is enough. It is said that the vessels must be fitted
out for the purpose of depredating; but the history of the matter is,
that the vessels intended to be reached were not so fitted out, but
seized upon by the crews for piracy. The construction of the other
side entirely defeats the object of"protecting dommerce. There are
,no words-in the law relating to the owners, the vessel is declared to
be the guilty thing. The only facts necessary to be proved are, that
the vessel was armed, and that a piratical aggression was committed.
Merchant vessels can aid in theseLcaptures. If Congress had intended.to exempt the property of innocent owners, they would have left
some discretion in the court; but the language is, the vessel shall be
condemned. It is said to be unjust to pumsh the innocent for the
guilty, but the object of Congress was to stop the crime by break,
ing up the means of committing it.
In the case of the Marianna Flora, this court said that innocence
of owners was no excuse. This was not a mere dictum, as the opposite counsel have said. but a point in the case.
2d objection. That this vessel was not armed within the meaning of
the act. The only fact which the law looks to, is, whether the vessel was armed at the time of committing the aggression. Here, both
vessel and crew were armed. But it is said that the arms were put
on board for an innocent voyage. True. But so it-was in the case
of the Mananna Flora, and the court said she might have committed
an aggression -within the meaning of the act. What difference doesit make, when the object of the law is to protect commerce?: It is
not said what number of guns must be on board, or to what extent
the crew must be armed. What the. law regarded was, that neither
should be so far armed as to'be capable of injuring commerce It
is said that the aggression must be piracy-as described in the 5th
section, that it must amount to sea-robbery. But it is perfectly. clear
Cong-oss dia not.intend this ;-they knew what -piracy was, by the
law of nations, and have declared that' an "attempt" to commit a
depredation shall be punished.

A -searen,"-

aggression

or-"re-

straint" are ali punishable, and these are all beyond the limits of

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Brig. Malek Adhel.

national law. These offences are not punished personally, but in
the 5th section piracy is pumshed with death. The offences, there,
"fore,.are not the same. In the case of the Palmyra, 12 Wheat. 14,15,
it was argued that the vessel could not be condemned until the person was -convicted, but the court said it was not necessary, because
there was no personal punishment provided in the sections against
restraint, &c. There is something more meant, therefore, than
piracy at common law. There need not be robbery; a "crestraint"
is enough. In the 3d section, where merchant vessels are authorized
to capture, the word ccpiratical" is dropped, the act meant to protect against all aggressions, and considered them all as piratical.
[Mr. Johnson here examined the cases of aggression seratim.]
3d objection. That the acts were not piratical, because it is not
shown that they were committed for the sake of plunder. But the
amount is not material in -a question of robbery, and violence threatened is as criminal as if used, and it was argued on the other side,
that there was sufficient evidence to show that the captain had run
away with the ship, which was piracy. The money was paid by
the Portuguese vessel under fear. The boarding party was armed
with pistols and a dirk. Fear wa§ purposely instilled, or why did
'the captain send his men armed. Thefiring into the other vessels
was wilful and malicious. In the Marianna Flora, the court said, if
death had ensued from firing, it would have been a grave inquiry
whether some greater punishmen't should not be inflicted, although
it was under a mistake.
2d point. What is the law of nations as to the cargo ' Did it
originally cover the ease; and if so, has it been abrogated by Congress?
Where a party roves the sea to commit murder and get gain by
violence, is at war with the whole world, and when his property is
seized, a right of condemnation ensues as in the case of other enenies' property. But it is objected that this cargo is the property of
innocent persons. The answer is, that the same motives which
induced the act of 1819 to give the vessel to the captors, induces
the law of nations to give them ihe cargo also. Nor has this rule
been changed by legislaiion. In the case of United States v. Smith,
5 Wheaton, the court say that the 8th section of the 1st article of the
Constitution, giving power to Congress to define and punish-piracies
and offences against the law of nations, includes the power of punishing lesser offences than piracy. Congress did not intend, by the act

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

229

United States v. Brig Malejk Adhel.

of 1819, to take away any of the admiralty jurisdiction which had
previously been vested m the judiciary. We must resort to the law
of nations. The power to "cdefine and punish" -means to inflict
personal punishment, and the jurisdiction of admiralty is always In
rem. It is untouched by the raw. If a pirate were to claim a cargo,
wo'uld a court give it. to him? and, yet the court can only condemn
or restore. Admiralty law gives -to the captors the property in the
thing captured, and if the vessel be condemned, what can save the
cargo P the same reason applies to both, which is, holding out an
inducement to captors to be vigilant. If the captain were the owner
of both ship and cargo, would the court condemn his vessel and
restore hbs cargo? In 11 Wheaton; before cited, the owner.of the
ship -is held responsible for the acts of the agent, and what good reason can be given why the owner of the cargo should not also be. so,
especially when he is the same person who owns the ship.
Mr. Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Court of the United
States for the district of Maryland, sitting in admiralty., and affirming
a decree of the District. Court rendered upon an information sn rem,
upon a seizure brought for a supposed violation of the act of the 3d of
March, 1819, ch. 775; (ch. 200,) to protect the commerce of the United
States, and to punish the crime of piracy. The information onginally contained five counts, each asserting a piratical aggression and
restraint on the high seas upon a different vessel, one, the Madras,
belongig'to British subjects, another, the Sullivan, belonging to
American citizens, another, the Emily Wilder, belonging to American citizens; another, the Albert, belonging to British subjects, and
another upon a vessel -whose name was unknown, belonging- to
Portuguese subjects, and this last count contained also an allegation
of a piratical depredation. The Malek Adhel and cargo were claimed by the firm of Peter Harmony and Co., of New York, as their
property, and the answer denied the whole gravamen of the informa-.
tion. At the hearing in the District Court, the vessel was condemned
and the cargo acquitted, and the costs were directed to be a charge
upon the proper- condemned. An appeal was taken by. both parties
to the Circuit Court, and upon leave obtained, two additional counts
were there filed, one alleging a piratical aggression, .restraint, and
depredation upon a vessel belonging to Portuguese subjects, whose
name was unknown, m a hostile manner and with intent to destroy
U

230

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Brig'Xalek Adhel.

and plunder the vessel,. in violation of the law of nations, and another alleging an aggression by discharge of cannon and restraint
upon a British vessel called the Alert, or the Albert, in a hostile manner, and with intent to sink and destroy the same vessel, in violation
of the law of nations. Upon the hearing of the cause in the Circuit
Court, the decree of the District Court was affirmed, and from that
decree an appeal has been taken by. both partiesto this .court.
It was fully admitted in the court below, that the owners of the
brig and cargo never contemplated or authorized the acts complained
of, that the brig was bound on an innocent,commercial voyage from
New York to Guayamas, in California, and that the equipments on
board were the usual equipments for such a voyage. It appears from
the evidence that the brig sailed from the port of N w York. on the
30th of June, 1840, under the command of one Joseph Nunez5 armed
with a cannon and ammunition, and with pistols and-daggers on board.
The acts of aggression complained of, were committed at diflerent
tames under false pretences, and wantonly and wilfully without provocation, or justification, between the 6th of July, 1840, and the 20th
of August, 1840, when the brig arrived at Bahia, where, in consequence of the information given to the American consul by the crew,
the brig was seized by the United States ship Enterprize, then at that
port, and earned to Rio Janeiro, and from- thence brought to the
United States..
The general facts are fully stated in a deposition of one John
Myers, the first mate of the Malek Adhel, and his testimony is corroborated by the other evidence in the cause, m its main outlines and
details. The narrative, although long, cannot be better given than
in his own words. He says, among other things, cc On Tuesday, the
30th of June," [Here the judge read a part of the evidence of Myers,.
which is set forth in the statement ofthe case by the reporter.]
Now upon this posture of the case, it has been contended, 1st.
That the brig was not an armed vessel in the sense of the act of
Congress of 181-9, ch. 75, (ch. 200.) 2. That the aggressions, restraints, and depredations disclosed m the evidence were not piratical within the sense of the act. 3. That if the case in both Zespects
is brought within the scidpe -of the act, still neither the brag nor the
cargo are liable to condemnation, because the-owners neither participated in nor authorized the piratical acts, but are entirely innocentthereof. 4. That if the brig is so liable to condemnation, the cargo
is not, either under the act of Congress or by the law of nations.

JA'NU.ARY TERM, 1844.
United-.States

!31

v. Brig Malek Adhel.

We shall address ourselves accordingly to the consideration of
each of these grounds of defence. The act of 1819, eh, 75,
(ch. 200,) provides, in the first section, that the Presidentis- authorized and requested to employ the public armed ships of the United
States with suitable instructions in protecting the merchant ships of
the United States and their crews from piratical aggressions and depredations." By the second section the commanders of such armed
vessels are authorized cc to subdue, seize, take, and send into any
port of the United States any armed vessel or boat, or any vessel or
boat the crew whereof shall be armed, and which shall have attempted or committed any piratical aggressibn, search, restraint, depre"dation, or. seizure upon any vessel of the Umted States, or of the
citizens of the United States, or upon any other vessel," &c. By the
third section it is provided "cthat the commander and crew of any
merchant'vessel owned wholly or in part by a citizen thereof, may
oppose and defend against any aggression, search, restraint, depredation, or seizure,.whicli shall be attempted upon such vessel, or upon
any other vessel owned as aforesaid, by the commander ot crew of
any other armed vessel whatsoever, not being a public armed vessel
of some nation in amity with the United States, and may subdIte and
capture the same," &c. Then comes the fourth section, (upon -which
the five counts of the original information are founded,) which is as
follows, "cThat whenever any vessel or boat from which any piratical aggression, search, restraint, depredation, or sdizure shall have
been first attempted or made, shall be captured and brought into any
port of the United States, the same shall and may be adjudged and
condemned to their use and.that of the captors, after due process and
trial.in any court having admiralty jurisdiction, and which shall be
holden for the district into which such captured vessel hall be
brought, and the same court shall thereupon order bLsale and ditnThe fifth secbutibn thereof. accordingly, and at their discretion."
tion declares, that any person who shall on the high seas commit the
crime of piracy as d-fined by.the law of nations, shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished, with death.
Such are theprovisions of the act of 1819, ch. 75, (ch. 200.) And
it appears to us exceedingly clear, that the.Malek Adhel is an " armed
vessel" within the true' intent aud meaning of the act. No distinction is taken, or .even suggested in the act, as to the objects; or purposes, or character of the armament, whether it be for offence -or defence, legitimate or illegitimate. The .policy as well as the words

232

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Brig Malek Adhel.

of the, act' equally extend to all armed vessels winch commit the'
unlawful acts specified, therein. And there is no ground, either of
principle or' authority, upon which we are at liberty to extract the
present case 'from the operation of the act.
The next question is whether the acts complained of are piratical
within the sense and purview of the act. The argument for the
claimants. seems to suppose, that the act does not intend to punish
any aggression, which, if carried into complete execution, would not
amount to positive piracy in contemplation of law. That it must be
mainly, if not exclusively, done ammo firandi, or lucr causa, and
that it must unequivocally demonstrate that the aggression is with a
view to plunder, and not for any other purpose, however hostile or
atrocious or indispensable such purpose may be. We cannot adopt
any such narrow atid limited interpretation of the words of the act;
and in ouir judgrient it would manifestlydefeat the objects and policy
of the act, which'seems designed to carry into effect the general law
of nations on the same subject in a just and approprate manner.
Where the act. uses the word -piratical," it does so in a general
sense, importing that ,the aggression is unauthorized by the law of
nations, hostile in its character, wanton and criminal in its commission, and utterly without -any sanction from any public authority or.
sovereign power. In short, it means that the act belongs to the class
'of offences which pirates are in the habit of perpetrating, whether
they do it for purposes of plunder,. or'for purposes of hatred, revenge,
or wanton abuse of power. A pirate is deemed, and properly deemed,
ostishumanigenerts. But why is he so deemed ? Because he commits hostilities upon the subjects and property of any or all nations,
without any regard to right or duty, or any pretence of public authority. If he wilfully sinks or destroys -an innocent merchant ship,
without any other object than to gratify his lawless appetite for mischief, it is just as much a piratical aggression, in the sense of the law
of nations, and of the act of Congress, as if he did it solely and exclusively for the sake of plunder, lucre causa The -law looks to it
as an act of hostility, and being conmitted by a vessel not commissioned and engaged in lawful warfare, it treats it as the act of a
pirate, and of one who is emphatically hstis Auiman genernsc We
think that the aggressions established by the evidenca bnng the
case completely within the prohibitions of the act; and if an intent
to plunder were necessa.'y to be established, (as we think it is not,)
the acts of aggression and hostility and plunder committed on the

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

233

United States v. Brig Malek AdheL

Portuguese vessel are sufficient to establish the fact of an open
although petty'plunderage.
Besides, the argument interprets the act of Congress as though it
contuied only the word cc depredation," or at least coupled aggression and depredation as concurrent and essential circumstances to
bring the case within the penal enactment of the law. But the act
has no such limitations or qualifications. It punishes any piratical
aggression or pirtical search, or piratical restrait, or piratical seizure,
as well as a piratical depredation. Either is sufficient. The search
or restraint may be piratical although no plunder follows, or is found
worth carrying away. What Captain Nunez designed under his
false and hollow pretences and excuses it may not be easy to say,
with exact confidence or certainty. It may have been to train his
crew'to acts of wanton and piratical nisclnef, or.to seduce them into
piratical enterprises. It may have been from a reckless and wanton
abuse of power, to gratify his own lawless passions. It could scarcely
have been from mental hallucinations, for therewas toomuch method
in his mad projects to leave any doubt that there was cunning and
craft and worldly wisdom in his course, and that he meditated more
than he chose to explain to his crew. They never suspected or
accused him of insanity, although they did of purposes of fraud.
The next question is, whether the innocence of the owners can
withdraw the ship from the penrlty of confiscation under the act of
Congress. Here, again, it may be remarked that the act makes no
exception whatsoever, whether the -ggression be with or without the
co-operation of the owners. The vessel which commits the aggression is treated as' the offender, as the guirty instrument or thing to
which the forfeiture attaches, without any reference whatsoever to the
character or conduct of the owner. The vessel or boat (says, the act
of Congress) from which such piratical aggression, &c., shall have
been first attempted or made shall be condemned. Nor is there any
thing new In a provision of this sort. It is not an uncommon course
in the admiralty, acting under the law of nations, to treat the vessel
in which or by which,,or by the master or crew thereof, a wrong or
offence has been done as the offender, without any regard whatsoever
to the personal misconduct or responsibility of the owner thereof.
And this is done from the necessity of the cse, as the only adequate
means of suppressing the offence or wrong, or msunng an indemnity
to the injured party.. The doctrine also is familiarly applied to cases
of smuggling and other misconduct under our revenue laws, and has
VOL. I.-30
u2

234

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Brig Maleir AdheL

been applied to other.kindred cases, such as cases arising on embargo
and non-intercourse acts. In short, the acts of the master and -crew,
in cases of this sort, bind the interest of the owner of the shlp, whether
he be innocent or guilty; and he impliedly submits to whatever the
law denounces as a forfeiture attached to the slp by reason of their
unlawful or -wanton wrongs. In the case of the United States v. le
Schooner!Little Charles, 1 Brock. Rep. 347, 354, a case arising under
the embargo laws, the same argument which has been addressed to
us, was upon that occasion add essed to Mr. Chief Justice Marshall.
The learned judge, in reply, said. " This is not a proceeding against
the owner, it is a proceeding against the vessel for an offence committed by the vessel, which is not the less an offence, and does not
the less subject her to forfeiture because it was committed without
the authority and against the will of the owner. It is true that inanmate matter cun commit io offence. But this body is animated and
put in action' by the crew, who are guided.by the master. The vessel acts and speaks by the master. She reports herself by the master.
It is therefore not unreasonable that the vessel should be affeCted.by
this report." The same-doctrine was held by this court in the case
of the Palmyra, 12 Wheat. R. 1, 14, where referring to seizure3 in
revemie causes,'it was said. " The thing is here primarily considered
as the offender, or rather the offence is primarily attached to the thing;
and this whether the offence be .nalum proibitum or malum zn re.
The same thmg applies to proceeding zn rem or seizures. in theAdmiralty." The same doctrine, has been fully recognised in the High
Court of Admiralty in England, as is stfficienty apparent from the
Vrow Judith, I Rob. R: 150, the Adonis, 5 Rob. IL 256, the
Mars, 6 Rob. R. 87, and indeed in many other cases, where the
owner of the slup has beenheld bound by, the acts of the master,
whether he-was ignorant thereof or not.(a)
The ship. is also by the general maritime law held responsible for
the torts -and misconduct of the master and crew thereof, whether
arising from negligence or a wilful disregard of duty, as for example,
in cases of collision and other wrongs done upon the high seas or
elsewhere within the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, upon &he
general policy of that law, which looks to the instrument itself, used
as the means- of the mischief, as. the-best and surest -pledge for the
compensation and indemnity-to the injured party.

(e) See 3 Wheaton's Rep., Appendix, p. 37 to p. 40.

JANUARY

TERM, 1844.

235

United States v. Brig Malek AdheL

The act of Congress has therefore done nothing more on tins point
than to affirm and enforce the general principles of the maritime law
and of the law of nations.
The remaining question is, whether the cargo is involved inthe
same fate as the ship. In respect to the forfeiture under the act 6f
1819, it is plawn that the.cargo stands upon a very diffdrent ground
from that of the ship. Nothing is'said in relation to the condemnation of the cargo in the fourth section of the act; and in the silence
of any expression of the'legislature, in the case of provisions confessedly penal, it ought not to be .presumed that their intention
exceeded their language. We have no right to presume that-the
policy of the act reached beyond the condemnation of the offending
vessel.
The argument, then, which seeks condemnation of the cargo, must
rely solely and exelusively for its support upon the sixth and seventh
counts, founded upon the law of nations and the general maritime
law. So far as the general maritime law applies to torts or injuries
committed on the high seas and witlun the admiralty jurisdiction, the
general rule is, not forfeiture of the offending property; but compensation to the full extent of all damages sustained or reasonably allowable, to be enforced by a proceeding therefor sn rem or sn personam.
It is true that the law of nations goes in many cases much farther, and
inflicts the penalty of confiscation for very gross and wanton violations of duty. But, then, it limits the penalty to cases of extraordinary turpitude or violence. For petty misconduct, or petty plunderage,
or petty neglect of duty, it contents itself with the mitigated rule of
compensation in damages. Such was the doctrine recognised by this
court inthe case of the Mananna Flora, 11 Wheat. R. 1, 40, where
an attempt was made to inflict the penalty of conliscation for an
asserted (but not proved) piratical or hostile aggression. -. Upon that
occasion, the court said. cc The other count" (which was sunilar to
those now under our consideration) "cwhich seeks -condemnation on
the ground of an asserted hostile aggression, admits of a similar
answer. It proceeds upon the principle that, for gross violations of
the law of nations on the high seas, the.penalty of confiscation may
be properly inflicted upon the offending property. Supposing the
general rule to be so in ordinary cases of property taken in delcto, it
is not, therefore, to be admitted, that every, offence, however small,
however done under a mstake of rights, or for purposes wholly
defensive, isto be visited with such harsh punmshments. Whatever-

-236

SUPREME COURT.
United States v. Brig Malek Adhel.

may be the case, where a gross, fraudulent, and unprovoked attack is
made by one vessel upon another upon the sea, which is attended
with grievous loss or injury, such effects are not to be attributed to
lighter 'fhults or common negligence. It may be just in such cases
to award to the injured party full compensation for his actual loss and
damage, but the infliction of any forfeiture beyond this does not
seem to be pressed by any considerations derived from public law."
And the court afterwards added ,,And a piratical aggression by an
armed vessel sailing under the regular flag of any nation, may be
justly subjected to the penalty of confiscation for such a gross breach
of the law of nations. But every hostile attack in a time of peace
is not necessarily piratical. It may be by mistake or in necessary
self-defence, or to repel a supposed meditated attack by pirates. It
may be justifiable, and then no blame attaches to the act, or it may
be without any just excuse, and then it carries responsibility in
damages. If it proceed farther, if 1. be an attack from revenge or
malignity, from a gross abuse of power, and a settled purpose of
mischief, then it assumes the character of a private unauthorized war,
and may be punished by all the penalties which the law of nations
can properly administer;" that is, (as the context shows,) confisca-

tion and forfeiture of the-offinding vessel.
Now, it is impossible-to read this language and not to feel that it
directly applies to the present case. In the first place, it shows, that
the offending vessel mayby the la, of nations, in the case supposed
of an attack from malignity, from a gross abuse of power, and a
settled purpose of mischief, be justly subjected to forfeiture. But it
is as clear that the language is solely addressed to the offending vessel and was not intended as of course to embrace the cargo, even
if it belonged to the same owner, and he did not participate in or authorize the offensive aggression, For the court afterwards, m another
part of the case, where the subject of the cargo was directly under
consideration said, cc But the second count" (founded on the law of
nations) "c embraces a wider range, and-if it had been proved in its
aggravated extent, it does not necessarily follow that the cargo ought
to be exempted. That is a question which would require grave deliberation. It is in general true that the act -of the master does not
bind the innocent owner of the cargo, but the rule is not of universal
application. And where the master is also agent and the owner of the
cargD, or both ship and cargo belong to the same person, a distind.T
tion may, perhaps, arise in the principle of decision." So that the

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

287

*United States v.Brig Malek AdheL
court studiously avoided giving a conclusive opmibn upou thiv-pomt.
Looking to the authorities upon this subject; we shall find that the
cargo is not generally deemed to be involved in the same confiscation as the ship, unless the owner thereof co-operates in or-authorrzes the unlawful act. There are exceptions founded in the policy
of nations, and as it were the necessities of enforcing belligerent
rights against fraudulent evasions, where a more strict rule is enforced
and the cargo follows the fate of the ship. But these exceptions
stand upon peculiar grounds, and will be found, upon a close examination, to be consistent wifh, and distingushable from, the general
principle above suggested. Many of the authorities upon thin subject have been cited at the bar, and others will be found copiously
colected in a note i" the appendix to the 2d vol. of Wheat. Rep.
p. 37-40.
The present case seems to us faTirly to fall witlvn the general pnnciple of exempting the cargo. The owners are confessedly innocent
of all intentional or meditated wrong. They fte free from any imputation of guilt, and every suspicion of connivance with the master in
his hostile acts and wanton misconduct. Unless, then,there were
some stubborn rule, which,-upon clear grounds of public policy, required the penalty of confiscation to extend to the cargo, we should
be unwilling to enforce it. We know of no such rule. On the contrary, the act of Congress, pointing out, as it does, in this very case,
a limitation of the penalty of confiscation to the vessel alone, satisfies
our minds that the public policy of our government in cases of this
nature is not intended to embrace the cargo. It is satisfied: by attaching the penalty to the offending vessel, as all that public justice
and a just regard to private rights reqire. For these reasons, we
are of opinon that the decrees condemning the vessel and restoring
the cargo, rendered in both the courts -below, ought to be afirmed.
There remains then, only the consideration of the costs, whether
the courts below did right in making them exclusively a charge upon
the proceeds of the condemned propeity. Costs in the admiralty are
in the sound discretion of the court; and no appellate court should
ordinarily interfere with that discretion, unless under peculiar circumstances. Here, no such circumstances occur. The matter of costs
i9 not per se the proper subject of an appeal; but it can be taken
notice of only incidentally as connected with .the principal decree,
when the correctness of the latter is directly before the court. In the
present case the cargo was acquitted, and thereas no ground to.im-

238

SUPREME CO.URT.
Brockett et al. 'v. Brockett.

pute any fault to it. If it had been owned by a third person, there
would have been no reason for mulctinig the owner in costs; uhder
circumstances like.the present, where it was impracticable to separate the cargo from the vessel by any. "elivery thereof, unless in a
foreign por, and no peculiar cause of suspicion attached thereto. Its
belonging to the same owner iight justify its being brought in and
subjected to judicial extmination and inquiry, as a case where there
was probable cause for the seizure and detention. But there it stopped. The innocence of the owner has been fully established; the
vessel has been subjected to condemnation, and the fund is amply
sufficient to indemniiry the captors for all their costs and charges.
We see no reason why the innocent cargo, under such circumstances,
should be loaded with any dumulative burdens.
Upon the whole, -we are all of opinion that the decree of the Circuit Court ought to be, and it is affirmed, without costs.
ORDER.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the. record
frox? the Circuit Court of the United States for.the District of Maryland,
and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, It is now
here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this court, that the decree of the
said Circuit Court in this cause be, and the same is hereby affirmed,
without costs.

BocT'T ET AL. v. BRocxTT.
Where there are many parties in a case below, it is not necessary for them all
to join in the appeal bond. It is suflicient if they all appeal and the bond be
approved by the court.
No appeal lies from the refusal of the court below to open a former decree.
But if the court entertains a petition to open a lecree, the time limited for an
appeal does not begin to'run until the refusal to open it, the same term continuing.
Where an appeal is prayed'in open court, no citation is necessary.

THIs -was an appeal from the chancery side of the Circuit Court
of the United States for the District of Columbia.
-The case was not reached in regular order, but a motion was'
made, under the rule. to dismiss the appeal under the following state
of facts.

