JANUARY

1O11

TERM. 1844.

MCCOLLUM. PLAINTIFF'IN ERROR, V. JENISON EAGER.

In the Circuit" Cburt of the United States for Louisiana, where a party seeks
relief which is mainly appropriate to a chancery jurisdiction, .chancery piactice must.be followed.
A writ ofeiror is not the appropriate mode of bringing U'p,ibr review,-a decree
in chancery. It should-be brought up by an a~pal.
An appeal will lie only from a final decree; and not from one dissolvihg'an
injunctioa, where the bill'itseif is not dismissed.

Tars case was brought up by a writ of error fromthe CircUit Coirt
of 'the United States for the eastern district of Louisiana.
The caie wps this.
On the 27th of July, 1838, Charles Bishgp executed the follow*
ing promissory note:
Donaldsmville, 27th July, 1838.
In all the month of May next, 1839,1 promise to pay H.Willianis
and.A.- F. Rightor or order, the sum of'five thousaxid dollars, value
received.

(Signed)

CrwAiRLs BrsHop.

Which note was-endorsed to Eager, a citizen of Kertucky,-by
Williams and Rightor, waiving .the necessity of a demand of payment orz the maker and of protest for non-payment and- also of norice
to themselves as the enddrsers; 6f the nonpaymet of the note.
On the 17th of Aughst, 1838, John Hagan, senior, bf New Oileans,
conveyed to Williams and Bishop, six tracts of land for $50, 00,
payable in one, two, and three years, with interest, the notes for
which were dated on the 1st of August, 1838, and endorsed by
Rightor. It was made a dondition of sale that, if any one of the
notes should not be pimctually paid, the-whole of the lands should
revert to Hagan.
On the 26th of February, 1839, Bishop sold, out all his interest in
the above purchase to Williams, Bightor, and Andrew McCollum.
On the 3d of August, 1839, the first note given by Williams and
Bishop to Hagan, for $16,666 66 cents, was protested for nonpayment.
On the 18th of November, 1839, Eager brought suit by filing a
petition in the Circuit Court-of the United States, against Willians
and Rightor as endorsers upon Bishop's note.
F

62

SUPREME COURT.
McCollum

v. Eager.

On the 7ih of January, 1840, judgment was entered in favour. of
Eager for the amount of the note, with interest from the 1st of June,
1839. In March, IM0, a fi. fa. was issued, and in April, levied
upon one of the tracts of land above mentioned, together with some
personal property.
. On the 16th of April, 1840, Hagan filed, in the second District Court
of the state of Louisiana, a petition, in the nature of a bill to fore'close a mortgage, reciting that the first note of $16,666 66 cents,'
given for the 'purchase of the six tracts of land, remained unpaid,
and praying a sale of the whole of the tracts, to pay that. and the
other two notes of the same amount. A judgment in decree upon
this petition was entered by.consent, with a stay of execution until
1st of January, 1841.
On the 22d of August, 1840, the execution in favour'of Eager,
which had been lying over for want of bidders, was finally carried
out by a peremptory sale of the property which had been levied
upon, on a credit of twelve months; when John McCollum (the.
plaintiff in error) became the purchaser for the sum of $5442 41
cents, and 'ave his bond with five sureties for that amount to Jenison Eager.
On the 6th of January, 1841, the stay of execution upon Hagan's
judgment or decree having expired, an execution was issued upon
-it, and Hagan repurchased the six tracts of land.
On the 24th ?f July, 1841, John McCollum gave a power of
attorney to B. W. Lawes to act for him in every thing relating to
the twelve months' bond which he had given to Eager.
On the 23d of August, 1841, execution was issued upon this bond
against McCollum and his sureties; the writ directed the money to
be made out of the personal estate, except slaves, but if sufficient
personal estate, exclusive of 'slaves, could not be found in the district, then out of the real estate and slaves of McCollum and his
sureties.
In September, 1841, Andrew McCollum, claeimig to be the owner
of anunlivided third part-of the property which had been sold by
Bishop .to Williams, Rightor, and'himself, as above stated, filed a
petition in the second District Court of Louisiana against John
McCollum, averring that John was in possession of the whole of the
property, and praying that he might be compelled to deliver up onethird of it and~phy damages for its detenion.
On the 20th of September, 1841, Rightor intervened in the said

JAN4UARY

TERM, 1844.

63

MeCollunm v. Eager.

suit, and claimed that the marshal's sale to John McCollum might
be sef aside for irregularity.
On"the 22d of September, 1841, B. W. Lawes, in virtue of the
.power which had been 'given to him by John McCollum, filed a
petition in the Circuit Court of the United States, in the nature of a
bill in equity, stating that McCollum had given his bond for the
property purchased at the marshai's sale; that an execution had
been issued upon it; *that the sale was null and void; that Hagan
had evicted McCollum; that the formalities required by law were
not observed by the marshal; that Rightor -had intervened and
sought tQ annul the sale; that the consideration of the bond had
utterly failed, and praying for an injunction to stop the marshal from
proceeding further upon it.
On the 1st of October, 1841, an injunction was issued in conformity with the prayer of the petition.
On the 14th of February, 1842, the Circuit Court, Judge McKinley being absent, decreed that the injunction should be dissolved
with 20 per cent. damages, 10 per cent. interest, and $300 amount
of fees of counsel employed by the plaintiff.
From this decision a writ of error was sued out and the case
brought up, in this way, to this court.
Coxe moved to dismiss the case upon two grounds, viz.:
1. That the decree was not final, and
2. That the case was brought up in an improper manner.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Circuit Cout for the eastern district
of Louisiana,
Under the'mo.de of proceeding in Louisiana, a petition was filed
by the defendant in error, in the Circuit Court, against Williams and
Rightor, on a promissory note given by them for the payment of
$5000 with interest, &c. And no answer being made, a judgment
was entered, by default, against the defendimts. An execution was
issued, which was levied on a certain tract of land which, on being
ofrTred for sale by-the marshal a second time, was purchased by
John McCPlIum the plaintiff in error, on a credit, of twelve months.
For the payment of the purchase-money.at the time stated, McCollum gave bond and security.
At the expiration of tvelve months, under the law of 'Louisiana,

64"

SUPREME COURT.
McCollum

v. E.ager.

an execution was issued oii the bond, which has the effect of a judgment. A levy was made on certain' slaves, by. the marshal, who
returned that after giving hiotice of sale, all proceedings were stayed
Qn the execution by injunction.
The injunction-was obtained by the plaintiff in error on petition,
representing that the title to the land purchased by him at marshal's
sale, and for which the above bond was given, had failed; and that
he had been evicted from the premises. That certain irregularities
had taken place in the sale, &c. An injunction was prayed for, and
that the bond might be decreed'to be cancelled.
On the 14th of February, 1842, ,the court ordered, adjudged, anddecreed, that the ipjundtion granted in this case be dissolved with
20 per cent. damages, 10 per cent. interest, and $300 amount of
fees of counsel employed to be allowed as special damage, and for
costs of this suit."
A motion is made to- dismiss'the writ of error, on the ground that
it dtes not lie in the case.
The proceeding on the bond may have been authorized under the
Louisiana practice, there being no distinction in the courts of that
state between a proceeding at law and in chancery. But the relief
sought againist the bond is mainly appropriate to a'chancery jurisdiction, where uch a jurisdiction is established. This being the case,
the proceeding at law, though: conformable to Lor"Aana practice in
the state courts, was wholly irregular. In t. federal .courts, the
jurisdictions of law and chaihcery, in Loui!'ana and in all the other
states, are distinctly maintained.
If this be viewed as a chancery proceeding, a writ of error does
not lie, for a detree in chancery can only be removed to this court,
from the Circuit Couit, by an appeal. But an appeal will only lie
from a final decree; and the decree in ibis case was not final, as the
bill was not dismissed. The writ of error is dismissed.
OrDER,

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for, the eastrn. district
of Louisiana, and it appearing to th'e court that the case is removed
here by a writ of error to'an interlocutory order or decree in chancery,,
It is, therefore, now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that
this writ' of error be, and the same is hereby dismissed; and that
this cause be, and the same is hereby remanded to the said Circuit
Court, with directions to proceed therein according to law and justice.

