JANUARY TERM, 1844.

FRANCois FExNELO

VIDAL, JoHn

F.

GIRARD, AND OTHERS, CITIZENS

AND SUBJECTS OF THE MONARCHY

OF FRiNCE,

COMPLAINANTS AND APPELLANTS,

v.

CITIZENS OF PHILADELPHIA, THE
AND

AND HENRY 'STUMP,

THE MAYOR,

EXECUTORS 0

ALDERMEN, AND

STEPHEN GIRARD,

OTHERS, DEFEINDANTS.

The corporation of the city of Philadelphia has power, under its charter, to take
real and personal estate by deed, and also by devise, inasmuch as the act of
32 and 34 Henry 8, which excepts corporations from taking by devise, is
not in force in PennsylvaniaWhere a corporation has this power, it may also take and hold property in trust
in tht. same manner and to the same extent that a private person may do: if
the trust be repugnant to, or inconsistent with, the proper purpose for which
the corporatio "was created, it may not be compellable to execute it, but the
trust (if-otherwise unexceptionable) will not be void, arid a court of equity
will appoint a new trustee to enforce and perfect the objects of the trust.
Neither is there any positive objection in-point of law, to a corporation taking
property upon a trust not strictly within the scope of the direct purposes of
its institution, but collateral to them.
Under the general
power "for the suppression of vice and immorality, the
/
idvancement of the public health and order, and the promotion of trade,
industry, and happiness," the corporation may.execute any trust germane to
those ,objects.
The charter of the city invests the corporation with powers and rights Io take
property upon trust for charitable purposes, which are not otherwise obnoxious
to legal animadversion.
The two acts of March and April, 1032, passed by the legislature of Pennsylvania, ari a legislative interpretation of the charter of Philadelphia, and
would be sufficient hereafter to estop the legislature from contesting the
competency of the corporation to take the property and execute the trusts.
If the trusts were in themselves valid, but the corporation incompetent to execute them, the heirs of the devisor could not take advantage of such inability;
it could only be ,done by the state in its sovereign capacity, by a quo wdrranto,
or other proper judicial proceeding.
The trusts mentioned in the will of Stephen Girard are of an eleemosynary
.nature, and charitable uses, in a judicial sense. Donations for the establishment of colleges, 'schools, and seminaries of learning, and especially.such is
are for' the "education of*orphans and poor scholars are charities in the sense
of the common law.
The decision of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania in the case of Zimmerman
v.Andres, (January terrii, 1844,) recognised, and confirmed, viz.: "That the
conservative provisions of the statute of 43.Elizabeth, chap. 4, have been in
force in Pefnsylvania by common usage and constitutional recognition and
not only these but the more extensive range of charitable uses which chancery
supported before that statute and beyond it."

128

SUPREME COURT.
Vidal' et al. v. Girard's Executors.

The present case distinguished from the case of the Trustees of the Philadelphia
Baptist Association v. Hart's executors, 4 Wheat. 1, upon two grounds, viz.:
1. That the case in Wheaton arose under the law of Virginia, in which state the
statute of 43 Elizabeth,.chap. 4, had been expressly and entirely abolished by
the legislature, so that no aid whatever could be derived 'from its provisions
to sustain the bequest.
2. That the donees were'an unincorporated association which had no legal
capacity to take and' hold the donation in succession for the purposes of the
trust, and the beneficiaries were also uncertain and indefinite.
The decisions and dicta of English judges, and the recent publication of the
Record Commissioniers in England, examined as to the jurisdiction of chancery
over charitable devises anterior to the statute of 43 Elizabeth.
This part of the common law was in force in Pennsylvania, although no court
having equity powers now exists or has existed, capable of enforcing such
trusts.
The exclusion of all ecclesiastics, missionaries, and ministers of any sort from.
holding or exercising any station or duty in a college, or even visiting the
same; or the limitation of the instruction to be given to -the scholars, to pure
morality, general benevolence, a love of truth, sobriety, -and industry; are not
so derogatory and hostile to the Christian religion as to make a devise for the
foundation of such a college void according to the constitution and laws of
Pennsylvania.

Tins case came up by appeal from the Circuit Court of the United
States, sittng as a court of equity, for the eastern district of Pennsylvania. ,
'he object of the bill filed in the court below was to set aside a
pct of the will of the late Stephen Girard, under the following circumstances :Girard, a hative of France, was born about the middle of the last
century. Shortly before the declaration of independence he came to
the United States, and before the peace of 1783 was a resident of the
city of Philadelphia, where he died, in December, 1831, a widower
and without issue. Besides some real estate of small value near
Bordeaux, he was, at his death, the owner of real estate in this
country which had cost him upwards of $1,700,000, and of personal
property worth not less than $5,000,000. His nearest collateral
relations were, a brother, one of the original complainants, a niece,
the other complainant, who was the only issue of a deceased sister,
and three nieces who were defendants, the daughters of a deceased
brother.
The will of Mr. Girard, with two -codicils, was proved at Phila-

delphia on 31st of December, 1831-

JAN-UARY TERM, 1844.

129 -

Vidal et al. v. Girard's Executors.

After sundry legacies and devjses of -real property-to various persons and corporations, the -Wil proceeds thus:XX. And, whereas, I have been for a ubng
time impressed with
the importaice of educating the poor, and of placing them, by the
early cultivation of their minds and the developments of their moral"
principles, above the umany temptations, to which, through poyerty
and ignorance, they are exposed; .and I.am particularly de~irous to
provide for such a number of poor male white orphan children, as
can be trained in one institution, a better education, as well as a
more comfortable maintenance, than they usually receive from, the
application of the publi3 funds: and whereas, together with the
object just adverted to, I have sincerely at heart the welfare-of the
city of Philadelphia, and, as a part of it,"am desirous to improve
the neighhnurhood of the river Delaware, so that the' health of thecitizens may, be promoted and preserved, and that .the easteim part.
of the city may be pnade to. correspond. better with the interior.
Now, I do give, devise and bequea4 all the residue and remainder:
of my real and personal estate of every sort and kind wheresoever
situate, (the real estate- in Pennsylvania charged aforesaid,) unto "ctheMayor, Aldermen, .andCitizens of Philadelphia," their successors andassigns, in trust, to and for the several uses, intents, and purposes.
liereinafter r-.ntioned and declared of and concerning the. same, thatis to say: so fa. as regards my real estate in Pennsylvania, in trust,
that no part thereof shall ever be sold or alienated by the said mayor,
aldermen, and citizens of Philadelphia, or their "successors, but the
same shall for ever-thereafter be let from time to time, to good tenants,
at yearly, or other rents; and upon leases in possession not exceeding
five years from the commencement thereof, and that the rents, issues,
and profits'arising therefrom shall --be applied towards keeping that
part of the said real estate situate in the city and liberties of Pbiladelphia constantly in good. repair, (parts elsewhere situate to be kept
in repair by the tenants thereof respectively,) and towards improving
the same, whenever necessary,,by erecting new buildings, and that
the nett residue (after paying the several annuities herein-before provided -for) be applied to the same uses and purposes as are herein
declared of and concerning the residue of my personal estate: and
so far as regards my .real estate in Kentucky, now. under the care of
Messrs. Triple4 and Brumley, in trust, to sell and dispose of the
same, whenever it may be expedient to do. so, and to apply the
proceeds of such sale to the -same uses and purp"oses as are
"VOL. 11--17

130

SUPREME COURT.
Vidal et al. v. Girard's Executors.

herein declared of and concerning the residue of my personal
estate.
XXI. And so far as regards the residue of my personal estate, in
trust, as to two millions of dollars, part thereof, to apply and expend
so much. of that sum as may be necessary, in eriecting, as soon as
practicably may be, in the centre of my square of ground between
Hgh and Chestnut streets, and Eleventh and Twelfth streets, in the
city of Philadelphia, (which s4uare of ground I hereby devote for
the purposes hereinafter stated, and for no other, for ever,) a permanent college, with suitable out -buildings, sufficiently spacious for the
residence and accommodation of at least three hundred scholars, and
the requisite teachers and other persons necessary in such-an institution as I direct. to be established, and in supplying the said college
and out-buildings with decent and suitable furniture, as well as books
and all things needful to carry into effect my general design.
The said college shall be constructed with the most durable materials, and in the most permanent manner, avoiding needless ornament,
and attending chiefly to the strength, convenience, and neatness of
the whole: It shall be at least one hundred and ten feet east and
west, and one hundred and sixty feetnorth and south, and shall be
built on lines parallel with High and .Chestnut streets and Eleventh
and Twelfth streets, provided those lines shall constitute at their
junction right angles. It shall be three stories in height, each story
at least fifteenfeet high in the clear from the floor to the cornice. It
shall be fire-proof inside and outside. The floors and the roof to be
formed of solid materials, on arches turned-on proper centres, so that
no wood may be used, except for doors, windows, and shutters.
Cellars shall be made under the whole building, solely, for the purposes of the institution, &c. &c. &c., (and then follows a long and
exceedingly minute description of the manner in which the building
shall be erected.)
When the college and appurtenances shall have been constructed,
and supplied with plain and suitable furniture and books, philosophical and experimental instruments and appaiatus, and all other matters
needful to carry my general design into execution, the income, issues,
and profits of so much- of the said sum of two millions of dollars as
shall remam -unexpended, shall be applied to maintain the said college according to my directions.
1. The institution.shall be organized as soon as practicable, and
to accomplish that'purpose more effectually, due public notice of the

JANUARY TER.M, 1844.

131

Vidal et al. v. Girards Executors.

intended opening of the college shall be given, so that there may be
an opportunity to make selections of competent instructors and other
agents, and those who- may have the charge of orphans may be
aware of the provisions intended for them.
2. A competent number of instructors, teachers, asistants, and
other necessary agdnts, shall be selected, and when needful, their
places from -time to time supplied. They shall receive adequate
compensation for their services; but no person -shall be employed
who shall not be of tried skill in his. or her proper department, of
established moral character, and in all cases persons shall be chosen
'on account of their merit, and not through favour ot inige;
3. As'many pdor white male orphans, between the ages of six and
'ten years, a the said income'shall be adequate to maintain, shall be
introddced into. the college a& soon as possible; and from time to
time as there may be vacancies, or as increased ability from income
may warrant, others shall be introduced.
4. On the application. for admission, an-accuratd statemert should
be taken in a book prepared for the purpose, of the name, birthplate,
age, health, condition as to relatives, and other particulars useful t6
be known of each orphan.
5. No orphah should- be admitted until the guardians or directors
of the poor, or a proper guardian or other competent authority shall
have given, by 'indenture, relinquishment, or -otherwise, adequate
power to the mayor, aldermen, and citizens of Philadelphia, or to
directors, or others by them appointed; to enforce, in relation to each
orphan, every proper restraint, and to prevent relatives or others from
interfering with, or withdrawing such, orphan from the institution.
6. Those orphans, for whose admission applicatioir shall first 'be
made, shall ,be first, introduced, all other things concurring-and at
all. future time4, priority of application shall entitl the applicaht to
preference in admission, all other things concurring; but if there
shall be, at any time, more applicants than vacancies, and the applying orphans.shall have been born in different places, a preference
shall be given-first, to orphans born in the city of Philad'elphia;
secondly, to those born, in.any other part of Pennsylvania; thirdly,
to those born in the city' of New York, (that being the first port on-the continent of North America at which I arrivecl;) and lastly, to
those born in the city of New Orleans, being the first port on the said'
continent at which I first traded, in the first instance as first officer,
and subsequently as master and, part-owner of'a vessel and cargo..

132

SUPREME COURT.
Vidal et al. v. Girard's Executors.

7. The orphans admitted into the college shall be there fed with
plain but wholesorle food, clothed with plain hut decent apparel,
(no distinctive dress ever fo be worn,) and lodged in a plain but safe
manner: due regard shall be paid to their health, and to this end
thefr persons and clothes shall be kept clean, and theyshall have
suitable and rational exercise and recreation. They shall be instructed in the various branches of a sound edueation, comprehending
reading, writing, grammar, arithmetic, geography, navigation, surveying, practical mathematics, astronomy, natural, chemical, and
experimental philosophy, the.French and Spanish languages, (I do
not forbid, but I do not recommend the Greek and Latin languages,)
-and such other learning and science as the capacities of the,.several scholars may merit or.warrant. I would have them taught facts
and things, rather than words or signs; and especially, I desire, that
by every proper means a pure attachment to our republican institutions, and to the sacred rights of conscience, as guarantied by our
happy constitutions, shall be formed and fostered in the minds of the
scholars.
8. Should it unfortuflately happen, that any of the-orphans admitted into- the college shall, from mal-conduct, have become unfit'companions for the rest, and mild means of reformation prove abortive,
they should no longer remain therein.
9. Those scholars who shall merit it, shall remain in the college
until they shall respectively- arrive at between fourteen and eighteen
years of age; they shall then be bound out by the mayor, aldermen,
and citizens of Philadelphia, or under their direction, to suitable
occupations-as those of agriculture, navigation, arts, mechanical
trades, and manufactures, according to the capacities and acquirements of the scholars respectively, consulting, as far as prudence
shall justify it, the inclinations of the several scholars, as to the oocupation, art, 6r trade to be learned.
In relation to the organization of the college and its appendages,
I leave, necessarily, many details to the mayor, aldermen, and .citizens of Philadelphia, and their successors; and I do so with the more
confidence, as, from the nature of my bequests and* the benefit to
result from them, I trust that my fellow-citizens of Philadelphia will
observe and evince especial care and anxiety in selecting members
for their city councils, and' other agents.
There are, however, some restrictions, which I consider it mn
duty to prescribe, and to be, amongst others, conditions 'on which

JANUARY

TERM, 1844.

133

Vidal et al. v. Girard's Executors.

my bequest for said college -is made and to be enjoyed, namely:First, I enjoin and require, that if, at the close of any year, the income
of the fund devoted.to the purposes of the said college shall be more
than suffciefit for the maintenance of the institution during that year,
then the balance of the said income, after defraying such maintenance,
.shall be forthwith invested in good securities, thereafter to be and
remain apart of the'-capital; but, in no event, shall any part of the
said capital be soldi disp6sed of, or pledged, to meet the current
expenses of the said institution, to which I devote the interest, income,
and dividends thereof, exclusively: Secondly, I enjoin and require.
that no ecclesiastic, missionary, or minister of any sect whatsoever,
shall ever hold or exercise any statin 'or duty.whatever in the said
college; nor shall.any such person ever be admitted for any purpose,
or as a visitor, within the premises appropriated to the purposes of
the said college.
In making this restriction, I do not mean to cast any reflection
upon any sect or person whatsoever; but, as there is. such a multitude of sects, and such a diversity of opinion amongst them, I desire
to keep the tender minds of the orphans, who are to derive advantage
from this bbquest, free from the excitement which clashing doctrines
and sectarian controversy are so apt to prbduce; my desire is, that
all the instructors and teachers in the college shall take pains to.instil
into the minds of the scholars the purest- principles of morality, so
that, on their entrance into active life, they may, from inclination and
habit, evince benevolence towards their fellow-creatures, and a love
of truth, sobriety, and industry, adopting at the same time stich reli.
gious tenets as their matured reason may enable them to prefer.
If the income arising from that part of the said sum of two millions
of dollars, remaining after the construction a.nd furnishing of the college. and outbuildings, shall, owing to the increase of the number of
orphans applying for admission, or other cause, be inadequate to the
construction of new buildings, or the maintenance and education'of
as many orphans as may apply for admission, then such further sum
as may be necessary for the construction of new buildings, and the
maintenance and education of such further number of brphans, as can
be maintained and instructed within such buildings as the said square
of ground shall be adequate to, shall be taken from the~fnal residuary
fund, hereinafter expressly referred to, for the purpose, comprehending
the income of my real estate in the city and county of Philadelphia,
and the dividends of my stock in M
the Schuylkll Navigation Company

-184

SUPREME COURT.
Vidal et al. v. Girard's Executors.

-my design and desire being, that the benefits of said institution
*shall be extended to as great a number of orphans as the limits of the
said square and buildings therein can accommodate.
XXII. And as to the further sum of five hundred thousand dollars,
part of the residue of my personal estate, in trust, to invest the same
securely, and to keep the same so invested, and to apply the income
thereof exclusively to the following purposes, that is to say-(then
follows an enumeration of the objects to which the income of the
fund is to be applied, being the improvement of the eastern part of
the city.)
XXIII. I give and bequeath to the commonwealth of Pennsylvania,
the sum of three hundred thousand dollars, for the purpose of internal
improvement by canal navigation, to be paid into the state treasury
by my executors, as soon as such laws shall have been enacted by
the constituted authorities of the said commonwealth as shall be
necessary, and amply sufficient to carry into effect, or to enable the
constituted authorities of the city of Philadelphia to carry into effect
the several improvements above specified, namely: 1. Laws, to
cause Delaware Avenue, as above described, to be made, paved,
curbed, and lighted; to cause the buildings, fences, and other obstructions now existing, to be abated and removed, and to prohibit the
creation of any such obstructions to the eastward of said Delaware
Avenue; 2. Laws, to cause all wooden buildings, as above described,
to be removed, and to prohibit their future erection within the limits
of the city of Philadelphia; 3. Laws, providing for the gradual
widening, regulating, paving, and curbing-Water street, as hereinbefore described, and also for the repairing the middle alleys, and
introducing the Schuylkill water, and pumps, as before specifiedall which objects may, I persuade myself, be accomplished on principles at once just in relation to individuals, and highly beneficial to
the public: the said sum, however, not to be paid, unless said laws
be passed within one year after my decease.
XXT. And as it regards the remainder of said residue of my
personal estate, in trust, to invest the same in good securities, and
in like mannaer to invest the interests and income thereof from time
to time, so that the whole shall form a permanent fund. and to apply
the income of the said fund:
lst. To the futher improvement and maintenance of the aforesaid
college, as directed in the.last paragraph of the XXIst clause of this
will.

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

135

Vidal et aL v. Girard's Executors.

2d. To enable the'corporation of the city of Philadelphia to pro.
vide more effectually than they now do, for the secuirity of the persons
and property of the inhabitants of the said city, by a competent police,
including a sufficient number of watchmen, really suited to the purpose; and to this end, I recommend a division of the city into watch
districts, or four parts, each under a proper-hdad, and that at least
two watchmen shall, in each round or station, patrole together.
3d. To enable the said corporation to improve the city property,
and the general appearance of the city itself, and, in effect, to diminish the burden of taxation, now most oppressive, especially on those
who are the least able to bear it.
To all which objects, the prosperity of the city, and the health and
comfort of its inhabitants,.I devote the said fund as aforesaid, and
direct the income thereof to be applied yearly and every year for
ever, after providing for the college as hereinbefore directed, as my
primary object. But, if the said city shall knowingly and wilfully
violate any of the conditions hereinbefore and hereinafter mentioned,
then I give and bequeath the said remainder and accumulations to
the commonwealth of Pennsylvaniafor the purposes of internal navigation ; excepting, however, the rents, issues, ana profits of my real
estate in the city and county of Philadelphia, which shall for ever be
reserved ind applied-to maintain the aforesaid college, in the manner
specified inthe last paragraph of the XXIst clause of this will: And
if the commonwealth of Pennsylvania shall fail tb apply this or the
preceding bequest to the purposes before mentioned, or shall apply
any part thereof to any other use, or shall, for the term of one year
from the time of my dece.ase, fail or omit to pass the laws hereinbefore specified for promoting the improvement of the city of Philadelphia,ithen I give, devise, and bequeath the said .remainder and
accumulations (the rents aforesaid always excepted and reserved for
the college as aforesaid) to the United States of America, for the
purposes of internal navigation, and no other.
Provided, nevertheless, and I do hereby declare, that all the preceding bequests and devises of the residue of my estate to the mayor,
aldermen, and citizens of Philadelphia, are made upon the following
express conditions, that is to say; First, That none of the moneys,
principal, interest, dividends, or rents, arising from the said residuary
devise and bequest, shall at any time be applied to any other purpose or purposes whatever, than those herein umentioned and appointed. Second, That separate accounts, distinct *from the other

136

SUPREME COURT.
Vidal et al. v. Girard's Executors.

accounts of the corporation, shall be kept by the said corporation,
concerning the said devise, bequest, college, and funds, and of the
investment and application thereof; and that a separate account- or
accounts of the same shall be kept in bank, not blended with any
other account, so that it may at all times appear on examination by a
committee of the legislature, as hereinafter mentioned, that my intentions had been fully complied with. Third, That the said corporation render a detailed account annually, in duplicate, to the legislature
of the commonwealth of Pennsylvania, at the commencement of the
session, one copy for the Senate, and the other for the House of Rejresentatives, concerning the said devised and bequeathed estate,
and the investment and application of the same, and also a report in
like manner of the state of the said college, and shall submit all their
books, papers, and accounts touching the same, to a committee or
committees of the legislature for examination, when the same shall
be required.
Fourth, The said corporation shall also cause to be published in
the month of-January, annually, in two or more newspapers, printed
in the city of Philadelphia, a concise but plain account of the state
of the trusts, devises, and bequests herein declared and made, compreheftding the condition of the said college, the number of scholars,
aid other particulars needftil to be publicly known, for the year next
preceding the said month of January, annually.
(The 25th section xelated to the winding up of the Girard Bank,
and the 26th appointed Timothy Paxon, Thomas P.'Cope, Joseph
Roberts, William J. Duane, and John A. Barclay, Executors. Then
followed' the execution of the will, in regular form, on the 16th day
of February, 1880.)
Whereas, I, Stephen Girard, the testator named in the foregoing
will and testament, dated the sixteenth day of February, eighteen
hundred and thirty, have, since the execution thereof, purchased
several parcels and pieces of real estate, and have built sundry
messuages, all which, as well as any real estate that I may hereafter
purchase, it is*my wish and intention to pass by the said will: Now,
I-do .hereby republish the foregoing last will and testament, dated
February 16, 1830, and do confirm the same in all particulars.
In witness, I, the said Stephen Girard, set my hand and seal hereunto,' the twenty-fifth day of December, eighteen hundred and thirty.
SvEum Gm.u.

[L. s-]

JANUARY -IERM,

1844.

727

Vidal et al. v. Girard's Executors.

Signed, sealed, published, and declared by the said Stephen Girard,
as and for a republication of his last will and testament, in the
pre ice of us, who, at his request, have hereunto subscribed our
names as witnesses thereto, in the presence of the said testator
and of each other, December 25th, 1830.
JoHN H. IRwln,
SAmuEL AnTHm,
JNo. THomN.

Whereas I, Stephen Girard, the testator named in the foregoing
will and testament, dated February 16th, 1830, have since the execution thereof, purchased several parcels and pieces of land and real
estate, and have built sundry messuages, all of Which, as well as any
real estate that I may hereafter purchase, it is my intention to pass
by said will; and wherea§ in particular, I have recently purchased
from Mr. William Parker, the mansi6n-house, out-buildings, and
forty-five acres and some perches of land, called Peel Hall, on the
Ridge road, in Penn Township : Now, I declare it to be my inteiitipn, and I direct, that the orphan establishment, provided for in My
said will, instead of being built as therein directed upon my square
of ground between High and Chestnut and Eleventh and Twelfth
streets, in the city of Philadelphia, shall be built upon the'estate, so
purchased from Mr. W. Parker, and I hereby devote the said estate
to that Purpose, exclusively, in the same manner as I had devoted
the said square, hereby directing that all the improvements and
arrangements for the said orphan establishment, prescribed by my
said will, as to said square, shall be raade and executed upon the
caid estate, just as if I had in my will devoted the said estate to said
purpose-consequently, the said sqtiare of 'ground is to constitute,
and I declare it to be a part of the residue and remainder of my real
and personal estae, and given and devised for the same uses and
purposes, as are declared in section twenty.of my will, it being my
intention, that the said square of ground shall be built upon, and
improved in such a manner, as to secure a safe and permanent income for the purposes stated in said tventieth section.
In witness whereof, I, the said Stephen Girard, set my hand and
seal hereunto, the twentieth day of June, eighteen hundred and
thirty-one.
S== H_ GmA-n [L.. s.]
Signed, sealed, published, and declared, by the said StepAen Girard,
as and for a republication of his last will and .testament, and a
M2
VOL. .- 18

138

SUPREME COURT.
Vidal et al. v. Girards Executors.

further direction in relation to the real estate therein mentioned, in
the presence of us, who, at his request, have hereunto subscribed
our names as witnesses thereto, in thepresence of the said testator,
and of each other, June 20, 1831.
S. H. CAWENTER,
L. BARDIN,
SAMUEL A-THU .
The executors named in the will, duly proved the same with the
codicils before the register of *wills for the city and county of Philadelphia, obtained letters testamentary thereon, and took upon them.selves the burden of the execution thereof. Inventories and supplementary inventories of the estate were filed, debts and legacies paid,
and large sums of money paid to the. residuary legatees. The accounts of the executors were filed in the office of the register of wills,
from which they passed, in due course of legal proceedings, to the
Orphan's Court-for the city and county of Philadelphia.
An act of thelegislature of Pennsylvania, of 24th March, 1832, ,,To
enable the Mayor, Aldermen, and Citizens of Philadelphia to carry
into effect certain improvements, and to execute certain trusts," recites
the bequest of $500,000, in Stephen Girard's will, sect. 22, to the
mayori aldermen, and citizens of Philadelphia, in trust, &c., and.
"for the purpose of enabling the mayor, aldermen, and citizens of
Philadelphia, aforesaid,- to effect the improvements contemplated by
the said testator, and to execute in all other respects the trusts created by his will, to enable the constituted authorities of the city of
Philadelphia to carry which into effect, the said Stephen Girard has
desired the legislature to enact the necessaiy laws." Sections 1 to
9 contain enactments stipulated by the testator in sect. 23 of the will,
as the condition7 on which $300,000 was bequeathed to the commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
" And forasmuch as in the course of time it may appear that powers
are not vested in the said, the mayor, aldermen and ditizens of
Philadelphia, which may be yet required, to the full execution.of
those parts of the said will of the said Stephen Girard, for the carrying of which into effect he has in his said will requested legislative
provision, and it is the object and intent*of this act fully to confer all
such powers.
c Sect. 10. Be it further, &c., That it shall be lawful for the mayor,
aldermen, and citizens of Philadelphia, to, exercise all sich jurisdiction, enact all such ordinances, and do and execute all such acts and

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

139

Vidal et al. v. Gira-rd's Executors.

things whatsoever as may be necessary and convenient for the full,
.and entire acceptance, ,xecution.and prosecution, of any and all the
devises and bequests-, trusts and provisions, contained in the said
will'-, which are the subjects of the preceding parts' of this'act,, and to
enable the constituted authQrities of the city of Philadelphia to carry
which into effect, the said Stephen Girard has desired the legislature
to enact the necessary laws.
ccSect. 11. And be it further, &c., That no road or street shall'be
laid out or passed through the land in the county of Philadelphia,
bequeathed by the late Stephen Girard for the erection of a college,
unless the same shall be recommended by the trustees or directors
of the said college, and 'pproved of by a majority of the Select and
CommonCouncils of the city of Philadelphia."
By another act, passed on the 4th of April, 1832, entitled" ccA
supplement to the act entitled cAn act to enable the Mayor, Aldermen, and Citizens' of Philadelphia, to carry into effect certain
improvements, and to execute certain trusts,'" the Select and Common Council of the city of Philadelphia, are authorized to provide
by ordinance, or otherwise, for the election or appointment of such
officers or agents as they may deem essential to the due execution
of the duties and trusts enjoined and created by the will of the'late
Stephen Girard.
In October, 1836, some of the heirs of Stephen Girard filed a bill
upon the equity side of the Circuit Court of the United-States for the
eastern district.of Pennsylvania, against the corporation of Philadelphia', the executors, and some of the nieces of Girard, who were
made c6-defendants. The, claim, as presented in the original bill,
amended bill, and bill of revivor, (in which Henry Stump is made a
party as the administrator of one of the deceased complainants,) is as
follows
"Your orator and oratrix further show, that amongst other things in
their original bill, they have alleged and charged that the testator,
Stephen Girard, by d supposed devise in his last will and testament,
has in the first place appropriated tvo millions of dollars to the
mayor, aldermen, and citizens of -Philadelphia, in trust, for thd
erection and endowment of a college, for he maintenance and education of a class -oforphans, attempted to be described by the said testator in his will.
"And your orator and oratrix further state, that in their original bill, they. set out that the said testator, in and by his will, after appropri-

1.40

SUPREME COURT.
Vidal et al. v. Girard's Executo.rs.

ating the two millions of dollars as aforesaid, by another supposed
devise, dedicated the whole of the residuum of his real and personal
estate, -with certain exceptions mentioned in the said original bill, to
the mayor, aldermen, and citizens of Philadelphia, in trust, for the
progressive enlargement of said college, and that there are no other
limitations to the number of orphans to be ultimately admitted into
the said college, nor to the cost nor extent of the establishment, but
the number and extent of the collegiate buildings and their appendages, that may from time to time be. erected within the entire area of
forty-five acres and some perches of Iarl, being a country-seat called
Peel Hall; so that in effect there is no devise over of any part of the
said residuum of the real and personal estate. of the-testator, to any
other use, purjose, or object, afte deducting the appropriations that
;are excepted in the original bill, than the charity.connected with the
establishment of said college, excel t it be contingently, in case the
said college establishment be not made, as it is contemplated to be,
capable of absorbing the whole of the said residuum of the real and
personal estate, intended. to be devised in trust as aforesaid, as by a
reference to the said original bill and exhibits, which your complainants pray may.be taken as part of this bill, will more fully appear.
"Your complainants suggest and insist to be- available, that it will
be decided, from a true exposition and construction of said will,
which is) ubmied to the court, that it was the intention of the testator to dedicate the whole of the rents, issues, and profits of his real
estate in the city and county of Philadelphia, in trust, exclusively to
the uses and purposes of the charity connected with said college, and
not that the said real estate, or the rents, issues, and profits thereof
ar to be contingently applied to any other use or purpose, unless it
be to the payment of a ratable proportiontof certain annuities charged
on the real estate of the testator, in the state of Pennsylvania, by the
eighteenth clause in his will.
cc And your orator and oratrix further 'aver and expressly charge,
that the charity connected with the college, if the establishment is
,erected and managed according to the directions of the testator, and
the necessary buildings constructed so as to fill up and improve the
whole area of forty-five acres and some perches of land, will require
and consume the whole of 'the residuum of his real and personal
estate, attempted to be'devised as aforesaid for the purposes of erect-"
ing, progressively enlarging, and perpetually maintaining said collegiate establishment, for the support and education of as great a number

JANUARY TERM. 1844.

141

Vidal et, al. v. Girard's Executors.

of orphens as the testator directs to be admitted therein, so that there
will be no surplus of said residuum of his real 'and. personal estate
supposed to be devised in trust as aforesaid, to be appropriated to
any other objects or purposes designated. by the testator in his "will.
And your orator and oratrix aver, that there is no.devise over for any
other purpose upon any contingency of the said- two millions 'of dollars, supposed to 'be devised to the mayor, aldermen, and citizens of
Philadelphia, in trust, for the 'rection and endowment of said college,
ana that no part of said two millions of dollars, according to the will
of the testator, can be applied -in any event to any other use, purpose
or object, except to the charitable objects depending upon the erection, endowment and perpetual support of said college. And your
orator and oratrix aver and insist to be available, that -the said sup
posed devise of two millions of dollars to'the mayor, aldermen, and
citizens of Philadelphia, in trust, for the erection and endowment of
said college, for the benefits of uncertain objects of charity, supposed
to be intended by the testator, is void.
" And your complainants maintain; that the mayor, aldermen, and
citizens of.Philadelphia, were at the death of the'testator, incapable
of executing any such trust, or of taking and holding a legal estate
for the benefit of others; and that whatever may be the capacity of
said mayor, aldermen, and citizens of Philadelphia,. to hold property
for the use of others, or to execute a trust, the objects for whose
benefit the said- devise in trust is supposed to have been made, are
indefinite, vague, and uncertain, as will appear from an examination
of said will; so that no trust is created that is capable of being executed, or is cognisable either at. law or in equity, and no estate
passed by said supposed devise,, that can vest in any existing or
ascertainable cestui *que trusts; that if the objects or persons forwhose benefit the said devise is supposed to have been made, were
susceptible of ascertainment, yet such beneficiaries, when ascertained,
would be wholly incapable of transmitting their equitable title in
perpetual succession, so that the said two millions of dollars, for want
of a good and effectual devise, has 'descended by operation of the
law governing descents in the state of Pennsylvania, and the treaty
stipulations between France and the United States, to the heirs at
law of Stephen Girard, the testator, according as such laws and
treaty stipulations affect the rights o4 such of the heirs as are aliens
and such as are citizens of the United States.
" Your orator and oratrix expressly charge in their original bill, that

142

SUP.REME COURT.
Vidal et al. v. Girard's Executors.

fhe said supposed devise to the mayor, aldermen, and citizens of
Philadelphia, in trust of the whole of the residuum of the real and
personal estate of the testator, for the erection, progressive enlargement, and perpetual support of said college, is void, and that your
complainants were heirs at law of said testator, and each entitled to
one third part of the estate of the testator, undisposed of or ineffectually disposed of by his last will, according to the law governing
descents in the state of Pennsylvania, and the treaty stipulations
between France and the United States; and that the testator at the
time of his death left certain other heirs, namely, Maria Antoinetta,
wife of John Hemphill, Henrietta, wife of John Y. Clark, and Caroline, wife of John Haslam, which said Maria, Henrietta, and Caroline, are nieces of the said testator, and daughters of John Girard,
late of Philadelphia, deceased, and they and their husbands, except
the husband of said Caroline, are all made defendants to said bill,
together with Mark Richards, who is -the rustee of Caroline, all of
which said defendants are citizens of the state of Pennsylvania. And
your orator and oratrix further allege that the last named heirs are
the only persons 'entitled besides your complainants to any part of
the real or personal estate of which the said testator died seised or
possessed, and which remained undisposed of or ineffectually devised
by his will.
, And your complainants, as they are informed, verily believe and
expressly charge, that notwithstanding the invalidity of said supposed
devise or devises in trust, the said mayor, aldermen, and citizens of
Philadelphia, soon after the death of the testator entered upon and
possessed themselves of the two millions of dollars, supposed to be
devised to them in trust for the erection and support of said college,
and also of the hole of the residuum of the real and personal estate
of the testator, supposed to be devised to them for the same purposes,
and have ever since continued to hold and manage the same according to the terms of said supposed trust, or under the pretext of applying the said two millions of dollars, and the said residuum of the
real and personal estate of the testator, to the supposed objects and
purposes of said trust; that they have altogether refused to account
to your complainants or to pay over to them any part of their distributive shares, either of the said two millions of dollars or of the residuum of the real and personal estate, to -which they are -entitled, but
intefiding artfully and fraudulently to vade and baffle the reasonable
and just claims of your complainantsi and the relief prayed for in the

JANUARY

TERM, 1844.

143

Vidal et al. v. Girard's Executors.

original bill, they have neglected to answer fully, either as to the
amount or value of the real or personal estate they have entered upon
or received from. the estate of the testator, under colour of said trust;
and your complainants pray that in order to obtain the relief and
equity prayed for,'the said mayor, aldermen, and citizens of Philadelphia, be compelled to answer and discover," &c. &c.
[The bill then prayed a general discovery and account from all
parties.]
The defendants all answered, and the executors filed full accounts
of all their transactions. A commission to take testimony -was issued
to France, in order to establish the relationship existing between the
complainants and the deceased.
Under the act of 1832, the corporation of Philadelphia passed an
ordinance providing for the building of the college, and the board
of trustees created thereby was organized in March, 1833. The
building was commenced and carried on from year to year under the
direction of the authorities appointed in this ordinance.
On the 28th April, 1841, the cause -came on for hearing in the
Circuit Court upon the bill, amended bill, and bill of revivor,
answers, replications, depositions, and\&xhibits, when,Wafter argument
of counsel, it was ordered, adjudged, and decreed, that the complainants' bill be dismissed with costs.
The complainants appealed to this court.
Jones and Webster, for the appellants, who wre also the complainants below.
Binney and Sergeant, for the defendants.
Jones made the three following points:
1. That the bequest of the'college fund is to this amount void, by
reason of the uncertainty of the designation of the beneficiaries oi
cestui que trusts of the legacy.
. 2. That the corporation of the city of Philadelphia is not authorized by its charter to administer the trusts of this legacy, and .that
the intentions'of the testator would be defeated by the substitution
of any other trustee.
3. That if otherwise capable of taking effect, the trust would, be
void, because the plan of education proposed is anti-christian, and
therefore repugnant to the law of .Pennsylvania, and is also opposed
to the provision of Art. IX. sect. iii. of the Constitution of Penn-

144

SUPREME COURT.',.
Vidal et al. v. Girard's Executors.

sylvania, that " no human authority can in any case whatever conftrol or interfere with the rights of conscience."
If the first point should be established and the second not, the
corporation would become trustees for the complainants. 8 Peters,
326 ; King v. Mitchell, 1 Merivale, 336 ; 2 North Carolina Rep. 557;
2 Devereux, 309 ; 10 Vesey; 535.
The city of Philadelphia claims as a residuary legatee, even if the
trust should be declared void, but there are two answers to this,
first, that a trust bars the residuary interest, and, second, that the residuum is divided into parts. Ambler, 580; 1 Johnson, 571.
In real estate, the residuary devisee never had a lapsed devise.
The bequest of the college fund is void by reason of the uncertainty
of the cestui que trusts.
At common law and prior to the statute 43 Elizabeth, such devises
were void, and that statute is not in force in Pennsylvania. Duke,
125; Delford on Mortmain, 43.
The statute 5 Elizabeth, reviving a statute of Henry 8, says,
henceforth it shall be lawful, &c., implying that it was not lawful
before.
In England formerly all charities were under the care of the ecclesiastical courts. At the Reformation they were withdrawn from the
church, and paupers thrown upon the public. Henry 8 was glad
to find some other way of supporting them, and Elizabeth encouraged
private persons to found charities with the same view. But. since
her day, the source of the power .which chancery has exercised
over charities in England has been the prerogative of the crown, and
this prerogative law never'could have been introduced into the colonies. Jurisdiction over the three subjects of lunatics, infants, and
*charities. ha] always gone together, and been claimed because the
king is said to be yarenspatrim. "1 Bla. Com. 303; 3 Bla. Com. 47.
The king, in his judicial *capacity,through the chancellor, and exercising an extraordinary jurisdiction, takes control of these things.
3.Bla. Coin. 427; 1 Fonblanque, 57, note; 2 Fonblanque, 207,
235; Shepherd onWills, 208; Chitty's Prerogative Law, 155, 161;
2 Atkyns, 553, where Lord Hardwicke says it is a personal authbrity
of the chancell6r.
The jurisdiction over charities is not within the ordinary powers
of equity, but falls back upon the king's prerogative. Sir Francis
More, 188; Hobart, 138;. 13 Vesey, 248.
It must be an extra-judicial function to set aside a will. How

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

145

Vidal et al. v. Girard's Executors.

could this power have passed over to a revolutionized and republican
state? In England, if the chancellor could not entertain jurisdiction,
he referred the case to the king, who acted under his sign manual,
but to whom can an American chancellor refer it? In an elective
republic it is impossible to have such a person.
These vague
charities cannot be sustained unless by virtue of some peculiar law,
and it is an alarming event that two millions of property are 'put into
perpetual mortmain for the benefit of persons not even incorporated,
not even a religious- or mechanical society.
IThe municipal law of Pennsylvania consists of the law of nations,
the common law of England, and some of'the British statutes. , The
report of the judges made to the legislature in 1808, (3 Binney, S20,)
says that parts of the statutes 7 Edward 1; 13"Edward 1; 15 Ricard 2; and 23 Henry 8, commonly called statutes of mortmain, are
in force in the state. 1 Dallas, 67, 70, 444, 114.
The old remedy of assize was revived because the statute of
Edward was considered to be in force in consequence of the report.
17 Serg. and Rawle, 174. The preface to the report says it was
necessary to examine the whok code., But the statute of Elizabeth
is not included amongst those in force. How then can it get in,
unless by some act of the legislature, which is not contended?
If the statute was in affirmance of the common, law, the judges
would have reported it as being in operation, because the common
law was itself in force. 9 Serg. and Rawle, 348, 349.
The first constitution of Pennsylvania, art.-7; art. 3, sect. 3,
and 24 sect. (I Dallas's Laws, appendix,) show that there is no
power provided to carry out the king's prerogative.
[Mr. Jones then went into a minute and critical examinationof the
colonial records of Pennsylvania, to show that from the proceedings
of the governor and assembly it was not believed that a power
existed to sustain these religious charities, referring. amongst other
matters to the charter of the Presbyterian church in 1772.]
After the Revolution, the first case that occurred to test these
principles was 17 Serg. and Rawle, 88i Witman v. Lex; but -the
bequests in this case were good by the common law without the aid
of the statute of Elizabeth, which was decided not to be in force.
2. As to the capacity of the trustee to take.
The powers of the corporation are limited, 'and a trust b6yond
those powers cannot be executed. 4 Wheat. 636; 9 Watts, 551;
6 Connecticut Reports, 304; 1 Vesey, sen. 534.
YOL. ].-19
N

S146

SUPREME COURT.
Vidal et al. v. Girard's Executors.

If the city of Philadelphia is the trustee, the estate is in one body
and the execution of the trust in another, for all the people are a part
of the ccrporation. The head of the 6orporation cannot be separated
from the body.
In ordinary cases, where there is no trustee, the court may appoint
one; but this cannot be done here, because the trustee, being a corporation, has perpetiiity, and a similar one must be selected. 4Wheat..
28; 1 Vesey, sen. 534; Duke, 245.
A part of this devise would make it a curse to any civilized land;
it is a cruel experiment upon poor orphan boys to shut them up and
make them the victims of a philosophical speculation. By the laws
of Pennsylvania it is blasphemy to attack the Christian religion, but
in this case nothing is t6 be taught but the doctrines of a pure
morality, and all .the advantages of early impressions upon the youthful mind are entirely abrogated.
.Binney,for the defendants,
(Argued that under the true construction of the will, the heirs of
Girard could not take even if the devise for the college'should be set
aside; because the city of Philadelphia-would come in as residuary
legatee; the income of the fund being applied, in such case, to
c diminishing the burden of taxation," and other public objects specifically pointed out. This part of the argument is omitted, because the
decision of the court is placed upon other grounds. Mr. Binney then
proceeded to 6omment on the objections to the devise, which had
been made by the counsel on the other.side.)
The objection made by the counsel on the other side is twofold-:
first, that the city is incapable of taking a legal estate by devise; and
second, thai the trust is void, because the beneficiaries are too uncertain. The first point was not pressed, and is considered as abandoned. As to the- second, this chafity is as predise as any which
has ever been established. The trust is to build upon a -place specially marked' out f the children are to be poor, born in Philadelphia,
then New York, then New Orleans. The description is specific and
limited. In England, a charity, however general, always succeeds;
there is no case in which it has failed. The only question there is
about its administration; whether by the chancellor in his ordihary
jurisdiction, or under the sign manual of the crown. The statute
32, 34 Henry 8, -which forbade devises to corporations in mortmain,
never was in force in Pennsylvania. The -settlers agreed in England
upon the laws which should govern them.

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

147

VidaI et -al. v, Girard's Executors.

White and'Brockden's History of Laws, Appendix 1, says that
wills, &c., in writing and attested should have the same force as to
land that conveyances had. This was on 5th May, 1682.. The
same rule was established on the 7th December, 1682, if the Will
were proved in forty days. Same -book, Appendix 4, chapter 45.
On the 1st January, 1693, this law was in force. The legislature
requested the governor to declare what laws were in force, who
complied and declared that this was, amongst others. Same book,
Appehdix 7, S.
In 1683, a law restrained the testator, if he had a wife and child,
from willing away more than one-third; bit in.
1693, the full power
was restored. Same book, Appendix 9.
After a slight alteration, (see Appendix 12,) the statute of wills
was passed in 1705, which was in force until Girard's- death. It
declares that wills'in writing, and attested, shall be good as conveyances. The power to make a will is general, and to devise to ay
one. If corporations, therefore, can take by deed, they can by devise.
The corporation has power to take. If the statutes of mortmain
are in force, they do not intercept theant on its .way to the corporation; there must be an office found to escheat the property to th1e
state. 7 Serg. and Rawle, 313; 14 Peters, 122; Shelford, 8.
The policy of the mortmain statutes of England has not been
adopted in Pennsylvania. The act of 1791 (Purdon, 182, 183) forbids corporationsfrom holding property 4c exceeding £500 in incoine,"
but permits them to hold any quantity of unproductive land.
The statutes of mortmain do not extend to Pennsylvania. If
they do, it is contrary to theEnglish decisions about theirlcolonies.
2 Merivale, 143; 2 Maddock's Ch.Pr. 61, note 62; 8 Wheat. 476.
If they hadibeen considered as being in force, ther would" have
been escheats under them; but ni6ne are found.
The rule prescribed by the court in 3 Binney, 597, was that where
there was a Pennsylvania statute on the same subject with an Eng.
lish statute, the latter *as not in force. But this could not be carried out universally, for the statute 4 Anne and the Pennsylvania
law of 1714 were declared both to-be in operation. '
'The.city of Philadelphia has an unlimited power to acquire land.
The charters of 1701 and 1789 both give it. 2 Smith's Laws, 462.
The power is to hold to them and their successors for ever, or~they.
can alienate it as a natural person can.
Has the city.power to take in tust?

SUPREME COURT.
Vidal et al. v. Gizard's Executors.

The old doctrine was that a corporation could not be seised to a
use. Sugden on Uses, 10.
But it' has been since settled that a corporation may be a trustee.
If it receives a deed, the legal estate will pass, provided the statutes
of mo tmaiu do not prohibit it. If the trust is void, equity will decree a reconveyance; but this cannot be necessary, unless the legal
estate had passed. And if a corporation is incapable of executing.
the trust, equity will appoint some person who is not. 1 Saunders
on Uses, 346, 349; Willes oi, Trustees, 31; Levin on Trusts, 10,
11 ; 2 Thomas's Co. Litt. '706, note; 1 Cruise's Digest, 403, tit. 12,
Trust, chap. 1, 'sect. 89.
Also,*that a corporation may be a trustee. 2 Vernofi, 411 ; 2 Bro.
Par. Ca. 370; 7 Bro. Par. Ca. 235.
Where a corporation abused a trust and was dismissed, see 3 Bro.
Chan. Cas. 171, 371; 4 Vesey, 453; 2 Vesey, jun. 46; 1 Vesey,
,467; 14 Vesey, 253; 12 Mass. Rep. 547; 17 Serg. and Rawle,
89; 3 Rawle, 170.
The cases in 12 Mass. Rep. 547 and 11 Serg. and Rawle, 89,
ma not appear at first to sustain the doctrine, but the cases are right.
That of 3 Rawle, 170, is very much like the present, and establishes
'the doctrine, that if the trust is for he welfare'of th6 corporation, it
may take it.
The acts of -the legislature of Pennsylvania of 24th March and
4th April, 1832, are strong indications of what the law is in that
state. 'That of March (sect. 10, 11) gives the corporation power to
carry out the trust; enacts that no road shall pass through the land;*
and gives power to appoint officers. Both acts acknowledge and
assist the trust, and imply that the corporation had power to take it.
This is evidence of an existing power. 4 Peters, 503.
The chkrter of Philadelphia, (page 73 of city ordinances,) in the
16th section, grants a general power to make laws-for the. welfare of
the people.
.The case in 1 Vesey, 534, does not warrant the inference drawn
from it by the counsel on the opposite side. See as to this case
Boyle on Charitable Uses, 84.
As t6 the uncertainty of the beneficiaries:It is an error to suppose that a trustee must take for beneficiaries
known and establshed. Suppose a marriage settlement for life -with
power to devise. Where is the estate beyond the life until the ppwer
is executed? It vests in no one. A charitable use is only a power

JANUARY TERM, 1844.
Vidal et al. v. Girard's Executors.

of appointment, and the children, in this case, when named, have a
good right to the use. So it is in churches. When a minister is
elected, he takes the estate according to the foundation; and so also
with schoolmasters, who have soinetimes a freehold. Shelford, 762,
763, 765, 767, 730.
If the trustee will not nominate, chancery will. 3 P. W. 146;
3 Atkyns, 164.
The tenure of the cestui qm we is fixed; the boys of merit are to remain in the college until they are from fourteen to eighteen years of age.
They are easily ascertainable. It is true that no one has a claim until
the appointment is made. But this is the case with many trusts of
private property where tfie estate is uncertain until certain issue are,
born. Where there is a power to name some one of'kin to take, a
remote relation may be selected. 1 Atkyns, 469 ; 4 Russel, 292.
A power to appoint amongst " poor relations" may be either a charity
in the legal sense of the term, or an ordinary provision of kindness.
7 Vesey, jurr.436; 2 Atkyns, 328; 17 Vesey, jun. 371 ; 1 Shoales and
Lefroy, 111; Boyle on Charities, 31-34. The only difference between the two is that in the first case, it will last longer than in the
other. A power of appointment is' sometimes vested .in particular
persons from special confidence, and sometimes it passes to heirs.
Charities are kept up for ever.
Uncertainty is indispensable to all charities. If any one has a
right to claim by law, it ceases to be d charity.
Where did the favour with which charities are regarded, and the
motive by which they are established, spring from? The doctrine
is traced up to the civil law: But where did Justinian get these
ideas? They came from Constantine, the first Christian emperor, and
they can be traced up to a higher source than that--the Bible. The
Anglo-Saxons received all their principles from the same authority.
Orphan-houses were exempted from taxation. Originally the injunction of the Bible was to "chonour thy fther and thy mother ;" but
the domestic affeetions are selfish, and it was reserved for Christianity
to enjoin the duty of ",loving thy neighbour as thyself." The Jewish lawyer asked who his neighbour was, and it was hard to convince
him that a Samaritan. could be so. There was the same difficulty as
now respecting the uncertainty of the beneficiary. The lesson of
charity is taught too in the case of the woman who, iiher humility,
claimed only the crumbs that fell from the table, and in the beautiful
parable of visiting the sick and the prisoner: 'c Inasmuch'as ye have
N2

150

SUPREME COURT.
Vidal et al. v. Girard's Executors.

done it to the least of these, ye have done it unto me." Even in the
older Jewish records, we find the same lesion of philanthropy taught
where the sheaf is left for the unknown and unacknowledged stranger.
It is the uncertainty of the person upon whom the benefit may fll
that gives merit to the action. A legacy to a friend is no charity.
The first trustee for a charity was St. Paul. The sick are always
uncertain; and to all hospitals, the objectibn now made would apply.
2 Domat. 169, title 2, sect. 3; 2 Vesey, 273; 1 Vernon, 248;
7 Vesey, 76; 17 Vesey, 371, that it becomes a charity as soon as
uncertainty begins. Ambler, 422; 5 Rawle, 151; manuscript case
from Pennsylvania, not yet reported, that beneficial societies are not
charities.
[Mr. Binney then proceeded with his own argument, and stated
the following points:
1. That such uses as those in Mr. Girard's will are good at the
common law in England, which is the common law of Pennsylvania.
2. That the city being in possession .of the trust, nothing more is
necessary for them, as they want no remedy whether there would be
one at common law or not.
3. That such trusts are entitled to protection in equity, upon the
general principles of equity jurisdiction, which protects all lawful
trusts whether there be a trustee or not.
4. That they in fact enjoyed this protection in chancery before the
43.Eliz. by the original jurisdiction of that court, and have had it
ever since.
5. That 43 Eliz. is only an ancillary remedy, long disused in
England from its inconvenience, and is supplied by chaicery, not as
an usurper on the statute, but as the rightful original tribunal for
such trusts.
6. That whatever the 43 Eliz. imparted to the law of Charles,
except the mere remedy by commission from the'lord chancellor, is
thoroughly adopted in Pennsylvania, together with the great body of
"
the equity code of that kingdom.
7. That the law in Pennsylvania is the same as the law in all the
other states except Virginia and Maryland.
1. -Such uses were good at common law.
They can be traced up to an early period, anterior to Richard 2,
and the principle upon which they are founded even up to the time
of-the Conquest. 4 Reeve* 80; Moore, 122. The principle of these
charities is also engrafted upon the old English tenures. Co. Lit. 94b;

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

151

Vidal et aL v. Girard's Executors.-

Littleton, sect. 132, 136, where provision was made that the soul of
the donor should be prayed for. Co. Litt. 96 a.
The tenure was called cc frankalmoign." There was another instance whera 100 pence were to be distributed to 100 poor men on
a certain day. Co. Litt. 96-b ; 2 Inst. 456, 406. There were perpetual charities in trust. 6 Co. Rep. 2; Co. Litt. 149 a; Brooke's
Abr. part.2, Tenure, 53. Some of the early statutes recognised them.
The stat. 17 Edward 2, chap. 12, pqsed in 1334, related to the
Knights Templars; at the dissolution of -the order, the lands were
assigned to the Knights of St. John for the same godly uses to which
they had been applied, viz.: relieving the poor, &c.
There arose a contest between religious houses and the king about
mortmain, and afterwards about superstitious uses. Monastic houses
were the conservators of public records and the sources of instruction.
15 Richard 2, chap. 5, was the last of the statutes of mortmain.
Chap. 6 allowed spiritual -corporations to hold the property of the
church and the glebe, subject to making donations for the poor.,
4, chap. 2, allowed the vicar to be endowed, &c.
2 Henry 5, chap. 5, recited that abuses existed in charities and
ordered a commission of inquiry to reform them.
23 Henr- 8, chap. 7, (see 4 Pickering, 239,) called the statute of
mortmain, aimed a blow at these, charities. It was passed in 1531,'
and the king was married to Anna Boleyn in 1532.
27 Henry 8, chap. 25, was the first poor law of England
1 Edward 6, chap'. 14, (5 Pickering, 267,) endeavoured to preserve some of the charities from destruction.- Boyle, 263, note, refers to this statute, which required commissioners to execute chariSee also stat. 2 Edward 6,
ties for the benefit of the poor.
(5 Pickering, 299;) stat. 1 and 2 Philip and Mary, chap.-8, (6 Pickering 234.) The monasteries were by this time put down and the
charities destroyed.
Then came the statute 39. Elizabeth, chap. 5, from which the
Pennsylvania act of 1791 is taken; this statute was continued in
force until repealed by 9 George 2. From the circumstance that
the charities were put down by he destruction of the monasteries
arose the necessity of the 39 and 43 of Elizabeth, which intended to
lessen the evil of pauperism by hunting up charities, but which
established no new principle in the laws of England. 4 Inst. 66.
2 Gibson's Codex, 1155, where the statute of 39 Elizabeth is
-Henry

.!61-

SUPREME- COURT.
Vidal et al. v. Girard's Executors.

found. This last law is a general one, and covers a larger extent of
ground than the 43 Elizabeth, chap. 4. Chapters 2 and 3 show the
character of chap. 4. (3hap. 2 is a pQor-law, and so is chap. 3, for
mariners. The 43 Elizabeth enumerates twenty-one charities, but the
. 39th 6omprehends all lawful ones. Hospitals were included in the
latter but not in the former. The stat. 7 Jac. 1, chap. 3, has for its
object to bind out poor boys. In Girard's case the boys must not
only be poor, but orphans, a double merit.
There is a dictum of Lord Roslyn in 3 Vesey, jun. 726, in rela.tion to a will being an appointment at common law; but the point
decided in that case has nothing to do ivith the present.
But there is not a single case where the validity of a charitable
use has been directly questioned dt law; wherever the question came
up, it was always - incidentally.
The Year-Book of 38 Edward 3 forms the basis of Co. Litt. sect.
383. There, was a .condition subsequent, which, if violated, gate
the heir a right to enter. What was then called a condition is now.
called a trust. Sugden on Powers, 121 ; Perkins, 563; Anderson's
Rep. 43, 108; 3 Dyer, 255 d, same in Jenkins, 6.
The last'case mentioned occurred in the-8 and 9 Elizabeth, and
is the Trinity ,College case. The question was, whether a devise to
the college, which was not a spiritual corporation, was good, -adit
was ruled to be so.
The'Skinner's case occurred in 24 and 25 Elizabeth, (Moore, 129,)
where the use was to pray for'the soul of the donor. So much of
the us& as was esteemed superstitious was set aside, and the rest
confirmed. See also Moore, 594, (or. same case in Popham, 6,)
where the'heir of the executor who had a trust-estate recovered from
the heir of the tfonor.
In Porter's case, 1 Co. Rep. 22, (92), the question was not raised
whether a charitable use ,was good at common law.
We see from these cases what the cofidition: of England was about
the time of 34 Elizabeth. The iatute 23 Henry 8 did not go into
effect for twenty years. Duke, 360; 4 Co. Rep. 116; 8Co. Rep. 130.
All these cases sustained charities for the poor and were anterior
fo 39 Elizabeth.
This court lBas affirmed the validity of charities at common law.
A dedication to pious.uses is sustainable only upon that ground.
6 Peters, 498,431; 12 Wheat, 582; 10 Peters, 712; 2 Peters, 256;
9 Cranch, 212; 4 Peters, 487; 4 Serg. and Rawle, 212.

JANUARY

TERM, 1844.

153

Vidal et al v. Girard's Executors.

The common law of England is in force in Pennsylvania. In -the
case of the Bush Hill estate it was ruled that the burden of proof is
on him who affirms that any particular part of the common law is
not so intorce. 9 Serg. and Rawle, 307.
2. The city is in possession, and wants no remedy. If the use is
good, the owner of the legal estate cann6t recover. 2 Dowl. and
Ryland, 523; 5 Maddock, 529, (429.'
But it is said that the use is not good because the proposed college
is unchristian. The bill filed in'the cause mikes no such objection.
If zeal for the promotion of religion were the motive of the complainants; it would have been better to have joined with .us in asking the
state to cut off the obnoxious clause than to'use the plea in stealing
away the bread of orphans. We are not here to defend Mr. Girard's
religious belief, whatever it was. During his life he exhibited his
philanthropy at a peilous moment. When the yellow fever burst.
upon Philadelphia in 1794, almost every one fled, regardless of his
property. Girard walked the wards of hospitals, not subdued by the
death to himself. Al
groans of the dying or deterred by the fdar ofl
that he had was Ireely given to alleviate the wretched sufferers.
More charitable even than the good Samaritan, he had not only
poured oil upon their wounds, but stood .by them to the last. Th6
difficulties that surrounded his plau of a college were great. His
desire was to include the orphan poor of all sects, Jews as.well as'
Christians, and those who had no religion at all. He might have
placed it under the protection of some one religious denomination,
but then it would have become a religious establishment, and met with
opposition from other quarters. If all sects were to be admitted, what
could he do other than what he did? If any clergyman was to be
admitted, he would of course teach the doctrines of his own church.
No two" sects would agree. Some would adopt one part of the
Bible, some another.' If they agreed as 'to what was to be left out
as apocryphal, they would differ about the translation of the rest.
The Protestant would not receive the Douay Bible. See, the difficulties that exist in New York about the introduction of the Bible as
a school-book. Girard did what was in conformity with law, and
often done practically. He had to abandon his scheme or prevent
discord by adopting the plajiwich he followed. The purest principles of morality are to be taught. Where are they found? Whoever searches for them must go to the source from which a Christian
man derives his faith--the Bible. It is therefore affirmatively recom
VOL. I.-20

154

SUPREME COURT.
Vidal et al. v. Girard's Executors,

-t

mended, and in such a way as to preserve the sacred rights of .conscience. No one can say that Girard was a deist. He has not said
a word against thbristianity. In-the Blucher school in Liverpool there
are no preachers. There is no chaplain in the University of Virginia.
By excluding preachers, Girard did not mean to reflect upon Christianity. It is true they cannot hold office. But the Constitution of
New York excludes clergym~en from offices, civil or military. If the
situation of a schoolniaster is an office" then a clergyman cannot be
a public teacher. Girard only says that laymen must be instructors,
and why cannot they, teach religion as well as science? Sundayschools are not prohibited.. It is said by thd opposite counsel that
these poor victims are cast into a prison and shut up for the sake of
an experiment. But there is no prohibition against their going out
to-church-tb as many churches as their friends choose to take them
to. All that is done by the will is to secure the college from controversy. It is optional-with the friends of the orphans whether to
permit them to go there or not. Cannot the trustees erect a hospital.
-without the walls where the sick can be sent and have the services
of clergymen when necessary? But religion can be taught in the
college itself. What, for example, is.there to prevent "ePaley's
Evidences" from being used as a school-hook?
The law of Pennsylvania is not infringed.
In the 'case of UpdegraffT, (11 Serg. and Rawle, 400,) the court
said that Christianity was part of the law. But it was Christianity with
liberty of conscience to all men. This is exactly whaL Girard thought.
By the 3 sect. of the 3 art. of the constitution of Pennsylvania, "call
men have a right to worship according to their conscience." If worship. were prohibited in the college, (which it' is not,) it would not
be against law. The constitution says that no man is disqualified
who acknowledges. the existence of God and believes in a future
state of rewards and punishments. Christianity is a part of the law,
so that blasphemy can be punished, but not for the purpose of invfding the conscience of other persons. But, at all events, the conege
is not yet built nor the regulation enforced. It is too sodn now to
set it aside. The city is in possession of the property, and.so it must
remain. The administration of the charity is a matter for the courts
of Pennsylvania exclusively.
I 3 'That such frusts are entitled to protection in equity upon the
general principles of equit j jurisdiction, which prbtects all lawful
trusts 'whether there be a trustee or not.

JANtARY TERM, 1844.
Vidal et al. v. Girard's Executors.

In England the power of the king a arens patrx is delegated to
the Court of Chancery. Where there are no trustees or objects of"
the charity, it is then administered according to the pleasure of the.
king. See this investigated in Story's Equity, 404. The ancieit
rule, says Coke, is good; the authority of-chancery is-plentiful, and
the -court will not let a trust fail for want of a trustee. Co. Litt. 290,.
note 1; Co. Lift. 113 ; Wilmot's Notes, 21-24; 2 Eq. Ca. Abr.
198; 1 Vesey, jun. 475;.2 Story on Equity, 320.
The court did not derive this power from the statute, but from its
jurisdiction over trusts. 2 Story, 430; 2 Mine and Keen, 581.
Equity is a part of the law. of Pennsylvania, and this is a branch
of equity powers.' The Supreme Court has the powers of a court of
chancery. I Dallas, 211, 213, 214; 1 Binney, 217.
In Pennsylvania, specific performance is obtained at law by cau-

tionary verdicts. 3"Serg. and Rawle, 484; Anderson, 392.
4. Such trusts in fact enjoyed protection in chancery before the
43 Elizabeth, by the original jurisliction of that court, and have had
it ever since. Duke, 135, 154, 242, 380, 519, 644; 2 Gibson's
Codex, 1158, note 7;, 1.Chan. Ca. 157; 2 Levins, 167; 2 P. W,,
119; 2 Vernon, 342; 3 A&kns,.165 ; 2 Vesey, 327, 425; Wilmot's Notes, 24; 1 Blythe, 312,334,342,346, 347, 357,358,67,61.
There is a dictum of Lord Rosslyn that it did not appear that
chancery had such jurisdiction before the statute o-f Elizabeth; but
he has been misreported, or if he said so, he is nct sustained by
the old authorities. . Tothill, 58; Choice. Cases in Chancery, 155,in 34th of Elizabeth; Duke, 163.
There was a decree made in 24 of Elizabeth before the statute
and upon the judicial power of chancery. 'It related to a deed of
bargain and'sale, which was not enrolled and did not'pass the 'land.
Duke, 131, 138, 359-361; 1 Milne and Russell, 376.
'The book lately published in England by the Record Commissioners, furnishes numeious instances of the exercise of this chancery
jurisdiction anterior to the statute of Elizabeth.*
*SCODL

OF CASES

FROM, CHANCERY

PROCEEDINGS

IN TIM E OF.

[Proceedings in Chancery, Vol. 1.]
Record Commtion,
Babingtanv. Gull, clerk. Billcomplaining that plaintiff's motherhad placed 600
marks in the hands of defendant, for the purpose of founding a chantry in the

156

SUPREME COURT.
Vidal et al. v.'Girard's Executors.

If this part of the common law be not in force in Pennsylvania,
the complainants must prove it. If they thiI so, why do they not
resort to the local courts? It can be shown, however, that Pennsylvania has actually adopted the laws that govern charitable uses.
church of St. Peter of Hawortb, in Nottinghamshire, which he had neglected
to do.
Answer of William Gull, that he had received the money mentioned in the
adding that if the endowment of the chantry
bill, for the purpose therein; blot
were nbt completed within four years, which are not expired, the money was to
- be applied in finding three priests to sing daily in the said. church; and that he
is willing to pay the said ioney according to the direction of the court.
The prayer is, the plaintiff being without remedy of common law, to issue
subpcenas, and to call defendant before him to be examined, and. to'do and
receive according as faith, reason, and good conscience require; and this for
the lovb of God, and in way of charity.
Wakering v. Bayle. (Henry VL) Bill to c mpel defendant, who is feoffee in
trust to make an- estate in certain lands it. Tottenham and Hornsey, to the
hospital of St*Bartholomew, in West Smithfield, for the'endowment of a chapel
there; "because great multitudes of Christian people of all parts of England
and other nations for sickness, pioverty, and misery, continually of custom resort
to the said hospital, and there relieved,; ad finally have their Christian sepullure round about the said-chapel."
-Praying a subpcena, and as in the preceding c se, ah shall be thought uito
your good lordship best, right of conscience to be had and done at the reverencq
of God, and in way of charity.
Of London,
Ron. PiAsen,
WELLS BAax, S gentlemen.
Pledges of prosecution.
Parker et aL in behalf of therielves et al, thc inhabitants of thetown of Brentwood,
Essex, v. Wistan Browne. (Eliz. B. 6,12,13.) Bill to establish donations. A chapel
of eaSe to the- parish church of Southwilde, iq which parish the town of Brbntwood-is sinuated, and a free school and alms-house there, the said chapel being
within tiLe
manor of'Corbedhall, granted to Sir AuthonyBrowne, knight, deceased,
by letters-patent from Edw. VL
Town of Bury St. Edmunds, by Robert Goldeny et al, Governors of Free Grammar
School of King Edward V7, in'Bury St. Edmnds, v. Goodney et aL (Eliz.) Bill to
quiet possession of-lands held by complainants in right of grammar school.
.Buggs et al.,feoffees in trust for the parish of B'arlon, v. Sfmpner et al. (Eliz. B. 6,
17, 18.) Bill to establish charitable uses, in a tenement called the Old Pole,
and lands thereto belonging, in Harlon, conveyed and settled tempore Henry VyI.
by John Swerder,'to feofifees in trust for poor of tbe said parish of Harlon.
Bullalt and Purcas, church-wardens, v. Fitdie. (Eliz. B. 6, 18.) Bill fot per-foimanep of charitable institutions. Land called Church Pightle, held from time
immemorial'Tor repairing the parish church 9f Lyndsell.
Blenkinsopper v. 4twnderson. (Eliz. B. 6, 19.) Bill to establish a charitable
donation. An annuity of £8 for -certain paupers and a schoolmaster, in the

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

157

Vidal et al. v. Girard's Executors.

To begin with the charter. -cThe laws for govering poperfy
5 Smith, ap . 407,sect. 5, 6;
are the same as those of England"
Amended Charter, 1701, app. 413; Act of 1718, 1 Smith, 105;
Act of 1777, 1 Smith, 429, see. 2; 1 Dallas, 67,.where it is said
parish of Burgh under Staiusmore, derised by Sir Cuthbert Buckle, knight, late
Lord Mayor of London, to be charged on his messuage called the- Spittle or
Stainsmore, and lands thefeto belongi g.
Fytch and Geadwin, church-wardens, and Wyndell et pl., overseers of the liarishof

Borking, v. _Robinson et al.. (Eliz. B. 6. 29.) Bill to recover a legacy to charitable
uses. The sum of £400 bequeathed, by Joan Smyti, widow, to be invested for
producing a yearly fund for the relief of the poor of Bocking.
Thomas Tychmer et al, church-waraens of the parish church of-Barirington, and
Shevyn Reynolds, the elder, and several others, co-feoffors of lands in trust, v. Lancastef.

(Elik. B. 6,31.) Bill for injunction in support of a charity. A tenement and.lands
ia Barrington, lately held of the master and fellows of Michael House in Cam.
bridge, as of their minor of Barrington, devised by the will of Thomas Lames
to charitable uses for the poor of Barrington.
George Carlton on behaif of himsef et al., inhabitantsof Elm, v. ohn Blyth et al.

(Eliz. C. c. 6.) Bill to recover charitable donations. A legacy of 413 13s. 4d.
bequeathed by the will of John Allen, deceased, to be invested at interest for the
benefit of the poor of the parish of Elm.
Robert Perot and others, inhabitantsand par hioners of the parishof Cornworthy v.

Stephen Crase. (Eliz. C.c. 6.) Bill to appoint new trustees for a charity. A tenement called the church-house in the-parish of Cornworthy, conveyed by Sir
Pearce Edgecombe, knight, or some of his ancestors, to feoffees in trust for ihe
benefit of the parish of Cornworthy.
.John Irish and others, tenants of the manor of Congresbury, v. Thomas .8he and

others. (Eliz. C. c. 22.) Bill for performance of will for charitable uses. The
manor or lordship of Congresbury, and lands iR'Congresbury and Lawrence
Wille, devised by the will of John Carr to the defendants upoui sundry trusts.
The Mayor and Citizens of Chester v. Brooke and Offley. (Eliz. C. c. 23.) Bill to

establish a charity.-Legacies left by the will ef Robert Offley of London,
haberdasher, for the benefit of apprentices and other inhabitants of the city of
Chester.
The Vicar and Church-wardens of the parishof Christ Church within Nvewgate v.
The Vicar aid Church-wardensof the parishof .41l Saints, Barking. (Eliz. C. c. 24.)

Claim of donation to charitable uses. A legacy of £A per annum bequeathed
by the will of Jane Watson, and claimed by both these parishes.
The Mayor, Bailiffs, and Burgesses of Dartmouth v. Nicholas Ball. (Eliz. D. d.2.)
Bill for appointing new trustees for charitable uses. Lands in Cliftoh ])artmouth Hardness, and in Stokeflemyer, &c., conveyed by Nicholas James to
feoffees in trust for the benefit of the poor of said borough, and for repairing
the church and harbour.
The Church-wardens, Parishioners,tnd Inhabitantsof the town and parish of Dan-

burye v. Thomas Emery and others. (Eliz. D. d. 7.) Bill to regulate charitable

C

158

SUPREME

COURT.,

Vidal et al. v. Girard's Execoutors.

as the opimion of the court," that the common law has always been
1 Dallas, 73, 211; 3 Serg. and Rawle, 578, (378;)
in force."
1 Binney, 519, (579;) 4 Binney, 77.
The act, of- 1730 authorizes persons to hold land for charitabla
donations of land-lands in Burleigh purchased ]by certain well-disposed persons in trust for the poor of Danburyc.
The Mayor, Bailiffs, and Burgesses of Clifton Dartmouth Hardness v. Fursemanet
al. ( liz. D. d. 11.) Bill for performance of charitable trusts-lands in Clifton
Dartmouth Hardness, conveyed byWilliam James to feofiees in trust for the
poor of Dartmouth and other charitable purposes.
.Blacknallet aL on behalfof the Inzabitantsof Elksley v. Spiry et aL (Eliz. E.e. 4.)
To establish a charitable donation. A parcel of ground, in the parish of Elkesley, cal!ed Normanton Fild, containing 500 acres, which was of ancient time
given and conveyed to certain feoffees in trust for the said parish.
G-eorge Carleton, .Esq., for himself and the rest of the Inhabitantsof the parishof
Elm, r. John Blythe et al. (Eliz. E. e. 5.) For charitable purposes a legacy or
sum of £13, 13s. 4d. bequeathed by the will of John Allen, deceased, for the use
of the~parish ol Elm.
Walter Jenkins et al., tenants and inhabitantsof the maanoi and parish of Fairford,
v. Oldesworth. (Eliz. F. f. 3.) To establish right of copyholders and charitable
donation. The manor of Fairford, late the estate of Roger Lygor, Esq., and
Katherine his wife.
The Mayor, Jurats,and Commonalty of the town of Feversham, v. Lady Hannots et
al. (Eliz. F. f. 7.) To establish a'devise to a corporation. A messuage, garden
and lands in Fevershai and all other his lands, &c., in the Isle of Hartye, &c.,
all which after the decease of his said wife, he devised to the said mayor, jurats,
andi commonalty in fee-for the benefit of the said .corporation repairing, the
harbour and highways thereof.
Richard .Estmond et al., inhabitants of the town of Gillingham, v. E. Lawrence.
(Eliz. G. g. 12.) Bill of. revivor to establish certain charitable uses. Divers
messuages, lands, and tenements, parcel of the copyholds of the Queen's manor
of Gilliugham, which the bill states to have been held time immemorial for the
suppbrt of a charity-school, and other charitable purposes in Gillingham.
Goodson et al. v. Monday et al. (Eliz. G. g. 12.) For performance of a trust for
charitable uses. Divers messuages and lands in Ailesbury, &c., some time the
.estate of John Bedford, who by a feoffment dated 10th July, 1494, conveyed the
same to certain feoffees in trust, among other, things for the repair of the high-.
ways about Aile bury and Hartwell.
Sir .ArturHavenyngham and other ihnhabitantsof Havenyngham v, Th. Tye et al.
(Eliz.H.h. 1.) To obtain attornment and rent for charitable purposes. Fifty
acres of land, meadow and pasture, called the town. land of Havenyngham,
lying in Badyngham, in the occupation of defendait Tye, the reversion: being
in'feoffees for the use of said town.
-Thomas Sayer et al., overseers of the poor of Hallingbury Mlorley, v. Lambe et al.
(Eiz.H. h.2.) To establish a charitable donation. A sum of420 given by the will

JANUARY TERM," 1844.
Vidal et al. v. Girard's Eiecutors.

uses. This is said to be an enabling act: but itis upon a diffierent
princile from the English statutes which are intended to aid, in
some measure, a religion not fully tolerat d, by.law. But in Pennsylvania there is universal toleration, and all sects stand ujo.n 'equal
of Thomas Lambe, deceased, to be forthe perpetual benefit of the poor of Hallingbury parish, and which the bill prays may be laid out in the purchase of
land for that purpose.
[Proceedings in Chancery, Vol. I. ]
Lyon and wife v. Hewe and Kemp. (Temp. Edw. IV.) This is a bill, answer,
and Teplication. The complaint being that the defendants had disposed-of property, left .for religious and charitable purposes contrary to the will of the
plaintiff, Ellen's late husband.
Hitckcmore v.-Lang-to recover title :deeds for charitable uses.
.Buggs etal., inhabitantsofparish of Harton,v. Sebley. For gstablishing cliaritable donations. A copyhold tenement which was surrendered byone John Godralf to the use of the poor of the said parish.
Sayer and .?ryor,overseers of poor of parishof Morley, v. Lambe Wal.. To recover
charitable donation. -20 bequeathed by .the will of Thomas Lambe to the
inhabitants of the town of Hallingbury Morley,-the income thereof to be for
ever applied to the use of the poor of the said town. Heron and Browne, .Exrs of .Freston v. ,.prozton et al (Eliz.) For performance of a will respecting charitable donations. Divers messuages, lands, and
tenements in Altofft, &c., &c., late the estate of John Freston-who by- his will
gave large sums of monej for building and endowing an almshouse in Kirkethorpe, and a free-school in Normanton, repairing highways and other purposeso
Fisherfor himself and other the inhabitantsof the town of Irchesie v. .B.letsoo. In
support of a charitable donation. Divers messuages, lands, &c.,,in Irchester,
&c., which in time of King Henry VII. were given and granted by Will. Taylor
and John Lely to trustees for the use of the poor of Irchester, and repair of the
bridges there.
Stock et al. on behalf of the pw of Icklingham v. Page et aL For performance.
of a charity. A capital messuage called the Town-house with fourscore acrek
of land and a sheepwalk in Icklingham, settled from asicient time in feoffees for
the use bf the poor of said town.
W. Fisher,master of the Hospital of St. Mary of 1lford v. .Anne Seward,widow.
(Eliz.) Bill of revivor to recover dues of a charity.' Titles of.demeine lands
of the farm of Eastbury and the tithes of, &c., settled for the felief of poor per-,
sons in the hospital of Ilford.
Th.'Foxe, for himself and other the inhabitantsof the parisl of Kybwortl, v. Benbe
et al. (Eliz.) For the support of a charity. Nine messuages and six cofitages
and six yards land in the towns, fields, and parish of Kybworth, &c., given for
the support of a schoolmaster and grammar-school at Kybworth.
Z. Babingion, master or warden of St. John -Baptistin the city of Litchfield v. Sale
et al (Eliz.) For the support of a 'charity. A capital messuage and divers

160

SUPREME COURT.
Vidal et al. v. Girard's Executors.

ground. In England, the mass Js held to. be superstitious. Boyle,
242.
The statute 23 Henry 8,- a mortmain act, avoided deeds cc for superstitious uses." But what'were deemed to be so in England, are
other hiouses and'lO0 aces of land in Litchfield, &c., hel d for the support of
poor persons in the s~id hospital, and also of a free grammar-school.
The Mayor and Burgessei of Kings Lynn v. Howes, clerk. (Eliz.) For'performance of x charitable donation. John Titley, Esq., by his will gave a payment,
charged upon his dwelling-house at Lynn, for the maintenance of a preacher
there, and other charitable purposes.
R. Newton, clerk, and the Church-wqrdenand inhabitantsof theparish of Little Mon.
den v. Dane. (Eliz.) To establish a charitable donation. A messuage, &c.,
devised by the will of Rafe Fordam to defendaht, for certain charitable purposes
stated in the bill.
Rycardes, Moore, and Kingfor themselves and the rest of the Inhabitants of Rodbcrough . Payne et al. (Eliz.) To protect a charitable donation. Certain lands,
&c., in Rodborough, &c., which in the time of King Henry V1. were given by
Margery Breyseyn and others to the church-wardens and inhabitants of Rodborough, for the performance of divine service in chapel of ease to said parish,
but which defendanth L.in as having been forfeited to the crown, being given
for superstitious uses.
(Proceedings in Chancery, Vol 1.] "
Spenser et al., trustees, v. Grant and Wife Jbin. (Eliz.) Claim to a rent charge
given in trust to plaintiff for charitable purposes. Agnes Chepsey of Nottingham, demised unto Coles and Joan his wife, divers messuages, &c., at a. certaia
rent, which she afterwards demised to the plaintiffs in trust to pay into the hands
of the chamberlain of Northampton, for and towards two-fifteenths of the said
town; which rent, after the decease of the said Agnes, the defendant Joan and
her then husband, the other defendant, refused to pay to .plaintiffs.
Smith and Willis, church-wardens of St. .Aldatis, Oxford, on behalf of the parish, v.
Smith .Ald. and .Furney's feoffees. Against defendants as feoffees in trustb to-perforkn and carry into effect such trusts to charitable uses. Edgecombe being seised
9 f certain houses, &c,, in city of Oxford, conveyed the same to certain feoffees
in trust; tvho, from the profits thereof were to repair the church, to relieve the
poor, and for other good and charitable purposes. They conveyed the same to
new feoffees, of whom the defendants are survivors, and refuse to account.
The Inhabitantsof Thirplangtonv. JarvOionly turvivingfeoffee. To compel performance of trusts in a deed of feoffment for charitable uses, and to convey to
other trustees, a house on Thirplangton and tenements in East Langton, &c.
Turney and Roberts v. Buckmasters. - To protect the plaintiffs in the execution
of the will of Thomas Knighton for charitable iises. Lands lying within manor
of Leightou Bussard. The defendants allege the same- to have been left to
superstitious uses, and e.ndeavoured to get the same into their own hands.
The Master and Brethren of the Hospital of Robert, Earlof Leicter,in Warwick

JANUARY

TERM, 1844.

•161

Vidal "et al. v. Girard's Executors.

not held to be so. in Pennsylvania. So a statute of Henry 8, prohibited gifts to Catholics.
the act of uniformity 6staIn1548, 2 and 3 Edward 6, chap. 1j,
blishing the church, directed all ministers to obqerve the mode
V. Lee t al. (1600.) Forpayment of an annuity 6f £20 given to a charity. Robert,late Earl of Leicester, being seised in fee of an annuity of -20, issuing out
of a farm called, &c., the inheritance of defendant Ogden, by deed gave the sane
to the said hospital.
Henry Hall and John Hall, on behalf of themselves and others,'thefeeholdersand ina.
bitantsof Witham, Essezj v. Panke. (39 Eliz.) Fo the support and continuance of
a charity. By the gift and grant of well disposed persons, divers lands and
tenements in Witham, and also divers sums of money, were given for the reparation of the church, the relief of the poor, and other charitable purposes; which
lands were settled in feoffees ; and the defendant having got possession thereof,
and moneys, and the deeds of settleihent, refuses to peiform said trusts, or to
appoint new feoffees in the names of those dead.
John Lloyd, D. D., vicar, Thomas .Baker, and Richard Wilborn, chureh-wardeis,and
poor of Writtle, v. Johndware et al., survivingfeoffees in trust for said parish. (1596,
38 Eliz.) For the continuance of a charity. A messuage and land called
Bookes in the parish of.Writtle, which in the year 1500 was given by Thomas
Hawkins to feoffees in trust for the poor of the said parish.
1. Wyllet and Thomas Sudbury, church-wardens and inhabitints of,the' town of
Mddleton, v. .Agnes Zliddleton, widow. ,(13 Eli'.) To 'recover -a'charitable pension. A' yearly rent of 6s. 8d.payable to the parish of Middleton. charged upon.
a messuage and land in Middleton.
John Whitehurst and Thomas .6mery, for themselveA .and other inhabitants tnd
parishioners of the parish of Dulerne in the county of Stafford, v. George Warner.
(1573, 15 EIiz.) For support of a charity. RobertWarner, deceased, and others,
inhabitants of the said parish, having a-sum of money to invest for the erecting
of a grammar-school and providing a schoolmaster, purchased therewith certain:
lands in Kenwalmerche, &c., in Devonshire, and applied the rents and profits
according to the trust; which lands afterwards became vested in defendant as
surviving feoffee, who had received- other money-to purchase a messuage and
land in Fradley in the county of Stafford, which he neglected to do.
George Warner v. Whitehurst et al. (20 Eliz.) 'Cross bill setting forth the bill..
A decree and an award had been made by the several contending parties; andfor carrying the said awar5 into execution, and to protect the plaintiff against
his arbitration bond signed by him, this.proceeding is instituted.
Fisher et at., inhabitants of Warwick, v. Robert .Phitipps and Thomas Cawdrey.
(1574, 15 Eliz.) For the recovery of sundry bequests of mdney left by will of
Thomas Okery, deceased, to be applied to charitable uses in the town of Warwick.
John Rawley et al., inhabitants of the parish of Wllborough, v. Lewis et al. To
appoint new trustees of a charity. Lands. and tenements in parish of Wilborough, containing 120 acres, of which the defendants were surviving feoffees in
trust for vepairing the parish church.

VOL.

.- 21

*

2

162

SUPREME COURT.
Vidal et al. v. Girard's Executors.

therein pointed out. The Book of Common Prayer 'was thus
legalized.
1 Mary, session 2, chap: 2, repealed the above.
1 Elizabeth, chap. 2. re-egtablished the aot of Edward, and extended to the people the mandate to use the Book of Common Prayer.
This was again repealed in the time of the Commonwealth.
The 13 and 14 Charles 2, chap. 14,- was another uniformity act;
and this was the state of the laws relating to religion when the charter of Pennsylvania.was granted in March, 1681.
Gifts to Catholic congregations were void. 'Moore, 784, cited in
Boyle, 265-; 1 Salk. 162; 1 Eq. Ca. Abr. 96.
-hen
W
the statutes of conformity were in force all gifts contrary to
them were void; and this is the origin of the doctrine of cy-.pres.
2 Vernon, 266.
In 1688, 1 W. and M. chap. 18, toleration was extended to all
who would sign the thirty-nine articles with soine exceptions. This act
is all that now supports a use in favour of dissenters. 2Vesey, 273,
275; 2Eq. Ca. Abr. 193; 3P. W. 144, 344; 1Vesey, 225;
3 Merivale, 409. See also 11 W. and Maiy, chap. 4, sec. 3, in
which the toleration act is extend-to the colonies.
There is not. a wordin the. charter respecting toleration of any
religion. Sect. 22 protects the church of England by saying that
preachers sent by the Bishop of London may reside in the province.
The stat. 5 Anne, chap. 5, set. 8, in 1706 secured the rights of
the Church of England, as establishedtin that country and the terni
tories thereunto belonging. Froni the commencement of the reign
of Anne 'to 1712 various disputes occurred between the colonist
and the crown and governor respecting recognition 'of affirmation;
the right. was asserted by the legislature for the third time in 1710.
Wise and Brockden, app. 2, p. 43, 46,50; 1 Votes of Assembly,
part 2, p. 130; Proceedings of Council, 517.
In 1712, the act of Assembly was passed permit ing religious
societies to purchase ground, &c.', and declaring that gifts should go
according to the intentions of the donors. The Assembly remembered Baxter's case, and intended to prohibit the doctrine of cy-pres.
Whether dissenters were tolerated was discussed-till 1755. Smith's
Ilistory of New York, chap. 4, p. 213, 255, 257
'Bythe 8 George -1,chap. 6, Quakers were allowed to affirm.
Various occurrences took place betweeii 1719 and 1730 when the
act of that year was passed, narrolvifig the ground of prior acts. In

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

163

Vidal et al. v. Girard's Executors.

1730,. in the case of Christ Church, an opinion 'as given by counsel
recognising the law of charitable uses.
In Remingtorr v. The Methodist Church, this act was construed
and a trust for the general Methodist Church held not to be.good,
bectuse it was not for the benefit of citizens of Pennsylvania.
In 1776,. the first constitution of Pennsylvania, (Smith, .430,)
brought charitable uses under the protection of the fundamental law.
Sect. 45 says all religiou-s societies and bodies of men for advancement of learning or good and pious-uses shall be enit6uraged and
protected in their property,.&c. "No act of incorporationh was necessary, because it s.ys, c united or incorporated" for "clearning" as well
as ,religion'." The people had been struggling for seventy-six years to
obtain from the crown the privilege of holding ground for churches.
It was a part of their love of freedom. And now we are told that
they have no rights except under the act of 1730.
The legislature made no corporation for any purpose whatever
until 1768. -1 Smith, .279.
The proprietary incorporated churches,, because it- was said they
had lost legacies; and this was the apology to the crown'for going
against the English policy., There was only one attempt to destroy
a charitable ise before the Revolution. In 1769 a will gave a legacy
to an hospital and' the poor, to two corporations) Chrisf Church and
St. Peter's. The heir brought an ejectment in 1776, and the church
took the opinions of Wilcox and Wilson, both of whom affirmed that
the bequest was good-at' law. In 1779, the cause was ended without'
a decision of the question. These corporations were established in
1765 and became trustees for others. ..The property held is now of
great value, and the trust is still kept up without any misranagement.
After the act of 1730, the governor said in 1734 that there was a
Catholic chur6hin Philadelphia where mass was said contrary to
law; but the Assembly replied, that in the colony there was a toleration of all religions,, and there the matter ended. Worship is held
there now.The city of Philadelphia still .holds and' administers Franklin's
legacy' and so of those of irkpatrick, Blakeley, Scott and Goudenot.
There are two other legacies, and the Freemason's Lodge gave a
sum of inoney, all of which are now administered. Theie is a sepax
rate book, called, Devises and Grants."
Are all these to te broken up?

164

SUPREME COURT.
Vidal et a]. v. Girard's Executors.

The spirit of the statute of Elizabeth is extended to Ireland.
4 Dana's Abr. 5, 6; Shelford, 60.
They are also in Pennsylvania as part of the common law'; bequests for pious uses are made by all descriptions of persons, no
matter hoW uncertain the objects of the charity may be. The
Quakers have held their schools through trustees, and never been
incorporated since the settlement of the colony. .Sbe 3 Watts, 440.
See 5 Watts, 493, where a trust for a school was said to be
ccvague and uncertain ;" but the court said not, " for the neighbours
got the benefit of it." Charity-schools have been favourites in the
state, sustained by usage, without any referdnce to the statute of
Elizabeth.
Manuscript case of Zimnierman decided in the Supreme Court of
Pennsylvania, on 6th January, 1844, where theke 'Was a bequest to
an unincorporated society for the benefit of poor' orphans, and the
court said it was good under the. constitution, although the statute
of 43 Elizabeth is not in force.
17. The Americaft cases are as follows: 12 Mass. Rep. 537,546:
9 Cranch, 292, 43; 9 Cowen, 427, 437; 2 Peters, 566; 3 Peters,
501; 3 Shotwell, 9; 3Paige, 300*; 16 Pickering, 107; 6 Paige, 640;
7 Paige, 71; 7 Vermont Rep. 241; 4 Dana, 354; 3 Edwards, 79;
1 Voss, 96; 20 Wendell, 119; 24 Pickering, 146; 1 Hoffinan, 202.
The Virginia and Maryland cases are not cited because they followed the role laid down by this court in the case of the Baptist
Association.
Segeant, on the same side.
The condition of the law in England and Pennsylvania has been
well examined. . Lord Roslyn haF. said that chancery did not take
cognisance of charitable uses 'before the statute of Elizabeth, but
Lords Redesdale and Eldon say otherwise. Roslyn is known to us
as the insulter of Dr. Franklin, and now the saine great people whom
he represented, are harrassed because this same Lord Roslyn doubted
almost the statute of Elizabeth. When the rubbish of three centuries is swept away and the old records of England brought to light
and published, there is evidence enough that the law of charities
before the time of Elizabeth was the same that it'is now in Pensylvania. But the counsel on the other, side complain that they cannot
'understand the law of Pennsylvania:" It is not necessary that they
should; for all that is asked by us is, that she may be suffered to

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

165'

Vidal et al. v. Girard's Bxecutors.

enjoy the contributions of her own wise and good, accumuiating from
the time that the first white man came there to gettle with the Bible
in his hand. Girard came there after the constitution of 1776 and
before that of 1791; he lived in an atmosphere of charities in Philadelphia; he saw Franklin's charity established and upheld by law,.
administered by the city, and never heard its validity questioned.
-Notribunal in the state was ever asked or would be permitted to.
question Franklin's charity. Girard knew where to find the best
legal advice, and undoubtedly had it. In Pennsylvania no argument
would be listened to, such as we have heard here. We are invited
to explain the law by those who do not want to understand it. It
has been said by the other side, that no law can be considered as
settled which has not been mooted; that is, that if.all the courts, for
an indefinite period, decide in the same way, it is of no account
unless some ingenious and subtl& mind calls the law into question.
In one case, this court waited for the state'court in Ohio to expound
its laws, and then followed the decision. In another case, the court
in Tennessee corrstrued its laws; this court adopted it. "Thdcourt
in Tennessee reversed its decision; this eourl did so too. The present is a question' of -Pennsylvania law, and we have heard the last
decision 'of its highest state court in January,'1844, read from the
manuscript. report. This conc'rs with 'all previous decisions; and
yet the counsel on the other side say that they want a fixed system
of law. Virginia and Maryland are the only, two states where the
law is otherwise, and they followed what they understood to be the
decision of this court in the case of the Bapti.t Association. The
question is not whether the Pennsylvania law is right or wrong, for
we do not wish to impose it upon any one else. But the only ques:
tlion is, what does the law of Pennsylvania say upon the point.
Girard's will was made by the advice of the best counsel that could
be found; it was proved as soon as he died; the executors went on
to perform their trust, in presence of the proper courts and with universal consent; they paid large sums over to the city. The elaimants then brought an ejectdiaent, and exhibited this will to the Supreme
Court of Pennsylvania, who found no objection to it. The city of
Philadelphia brought a suit under it for some property; no judge
nor counsel ever hinted that the will was'void. Five years passed.
The legislature had passed a law immediately recognising the will
as existing and valid ii all its parts. The preamble does'so. In
the case of the Town of Pawlet, Mr. Justice Story says, " the crown

166

SUPREME COURT.
Vidal et al. v. Girard's Executors.

has recognised the existence of the town." Does the recognition of
this will by the legislature go for nothing? The capacity of performing certain acts is adhiitted by the legislature, and is this not as
effectupi as a recognition by the crown'? Ten charities are going on
now in Philadelphia. Custom and usage make the common law of
England., Why has'not Pennsylvania airight to enjoy her common
law, not imported in parcels and packages from England, but modified and altered by circumstances and made suitable to the people.
If we are not strong enough to stand alone, we might ask support
from the other states whose law is the sfme with ours. Where did
the doctrine of charities spring from? and from what quarter did it
enter into the heart of man? We are authorized to denounce as an
infidel or worse, the man who hath not charity in his heart, As
surely as the pilgrims acknowledged a higher power, so surely did
they recognise the obligation to take care of their fellow-creatures.
The people of the state are now a hospitable and charitable people,
and wo be to him who endeavours to intercept the flow of the current. Where money is given to the poor, is any one at liberty to
take it? Thou shalt not steal. This is property under the protection
of the court, and the right to it as sacred as that .of any man to the
enjoyment of his own. The voice of Pennsylvania is accordant and
unbroken. We are called upon to examine what the chancellor did
before the 43'_.of Elizabeth, three centuries ago; but this does not
concern us.- It is now settled even there, that no charity shall fail;
if it is indefinite, the king shall administer it. Whether there-are
trustees or not, whether there be a corporation or not, all take. This
charity would be safe in England; and yet it is said we must lose it
unless we can show how matters were conducted three huhdrecl
years ago. This is a heavy burden to lay on a charity. In Pennsylvania, as in England, the la* of charity established itself. No
man can say when it began; it has always existed as,far as we know.
What is the common law of England? Leaving out its being the
perfection of re ason, it is such an application of rules as will promote
the welfare of society. The law of charity has existed in England
for sixteen hundred years,- some centuries before Alfred. Before
Penn came over, there was a settlement of'Swede4 near Philadelphia,
at Weccacoe, a brave- and moral people. They built a place of
worship, and aboftt 1700 a: better ope which remains to this day.
The charter of that church bears -date in 1765, but the first chuich
was built in 1677. Where was the law of harities for these hun-

JANUARY TERM, 1844.
"

Vidal et al v. Girard's

167

Executors.

dred years.? and what protected the graves around the church all
this time? The same law that exists still. Christ Church was
seventy years without a charter. In Walnut street -therewas a chapel
abhorrent to English law, where mass was said. It stood until it
was taken down and replaced by a larger one. Who ever ofiered,
to take away this church? What is the condition of the Philadelphia
Library with its 50,000 volumes? It has always acted without a
charter. Story supposes that the rudiments of this law of charities
came from the civil law. Thurlow and Eldon thought so. too.. In
1138, the civil law came into England, and the canon law soon
afterwards, and is part of the law of that country to this day. But
how did it get into the civil law? It is said from Constantine. But
wherever Christianity went, charity went too. Gibbon says "t the
apostate Julian complained that Christians not only relieved their
own poor, but those of the heathen also." The revealed law is part
of the law of England.- Blackstone says so. When did Christianity.
come into England? -It reached Rome in the .time of the apostles,
where Paul and Peter both suffered. But when England? Some say
at the same time that it was carried to Rome, and was there trodden
-down fora time. The latest period is 597, the arrival of Augustine.
An archbishop of Canterbury was then appointed, and there has been
one ever since. If Christianity carried the law of charity to Rome,
it must have done so to England too.. It was a part of the common
law after the sixth century. Where is there a spot upon earth, where
Christianity is found, that the law of charity does not exist .also ?
Alfred sent an embassy to the Christian churches in Syria, in the
ninth century, and had the ten commandments translated into Saxon.From one great source have flowed two sorts of charities, one religious, the other more general. The only difficulty that ever existed"
in Pennsylvania related to the first class--religious charities. In the
14th centurylived Wickliffe, called the day-star of the Reformation ; a
man confounded with turbulent men, but a professor of divinity and
singularly learned. It was an object in that day to save England
from paying tribute to the pope. From that time a religious struggle
ensued. Henry 8 found the Roman Catholic religion firmly established, the revealed law being part of the law of England. Allparties admitted this. Fron the time of Augustine dowfi, the common law had been undergoing changes to suit the spirit of the age,
but the revealed law was a part of it all the time. Tothill, --26,
quoted by Judge Baldwin in McGill and Brown. To this. same

168

SUPREME COIURT.
Vidal et a]. v. Girard's Executors.

great source we owe the idea of a paternal power in -the state---a
parens patrie-not the king, nor the chancellor, but a power existing somewhere to take care of the sick, the widow, and the orphan.
Take this away and we become a nation of savages. If there is no
protection for the infant and the aged, the charm of civilization is
lost. In Pennsylvania all this is cared for; by hospitals and hoises
of refuge. No power is able to stop the flow of charity, be, tuse
there is liberty of' conscience. The same .law-that enjoins upon a
witness in court to tell the truth, instructs him to give to the poor.
One is not less binding than the other. All that is asked of government is, that under the protection of law, the great duty of charity
may bb. fulfilled; and it is proposed now to say to every one that he
shall not do so; that his gift shall be forfeited. The law of charitable uses furnishes this protection. In the 17 Edward 2, in 1324, the
Knights Hospitallers were made new trustees of a charity when the
Templars were dissolved. Story (Equity, 403, 412) says, that charities are liberally corstrued, and in 415, " if the bequest be for charity,
no matter how uncertain the beneficiaries may be, a court will sustain the legacy." See also 3 Peters, 484; 4 Wheat. 41; 7 Vermont
Rep. 289.
A bequest is not void Ior uncertainty of persons. 7 Cranch, 45
2 story, 206; 6 Peters, 436, 437; 2 Peters, 256.
The law of charities existed in England prior to the time of Elizabeth. 2 Russell, 407.
The opinion given by Judge Baldwin in. the case of McGill and
Brown, embraces all the law of Pennsylvania. The law bf this court
is not different. The two cases cited in the decision of the Baptist
Association apppar now to be reported differently in five different
books, and this court afterwards said that a dedication to pious uses
should be protected. , The case of the Baptist Society is reported in
3 Peters. If the counsel .on the other side construe this case rightly,
then all charitable uses are swept away; but how then did it happen
that Chief Justice Marshall afterwards said that eleemosynary corporations are to be encouraged. There cannot be a right without a
full remedy'; and if a man has a right to give, his donation must be
protected.
The constitution of 1776, sect.. 46, says, " all religious or charitable societies ought to be encouraged and protected." What does
the 43 Elizabeth do? It directs charities to be looked up, amounting
to twenty-one. Is not the fimdamental law of a state of as muchpotency

JANUARY TERM, 1844.
Vidal et al

169

v. Girard's Executors.

as a British statute? The latter only looks to the past; the former
,to the future. The statute only includes twenty-one; the constitution
takes in alL It says " other pious and charitable purposes." These
words must be understood in their appropriate sense, according to
their meaning in England at that time. It is of higher authority
than the British statute, because it prohibited the legislature froi
doing any thing contrary to the principle which it established. The
constitution is a great land-mark; no one can dispute its authority
without treating the people of Pennsylvania with disrespect. In
Beatty and Kirk, (580,) the court say , the bill of rights of Maryland recognises the statute of Elizabeth -to some extent." Why
is not a recognition to the full extent by Pennsylvania equally
valid? Pennsylvania even adopts "csuperstitious uses," as they
are called in England. Her settlers were of every shade-of
opinion.
The monasteries in England were seized upon by Henry 8; but
the rapacity of his favourites was even greater than his own. England presents now a great contrast of rich and poor. Some of the
largest fortunes -are owing to the benefactions of this king, such as
that held by the" family of Russel. The owner of. the "cpoor flat,
Bedford level," complained that Burke received £300 a year. Religious supremacy was established in the king. He laid down six
articles, containing th points in dispute between himself and Rome.
Who can tell what was then held to be c.a superstitious use?" At
the end of. the Reformation, it was punishable to believe what the
statute of 31 Henry 8 ordered. ' The test of .' superstitious .uses"
was constantly changing down to the time of Charles 2; the Presbyterians, Independents, &c., when uppermost, all trying to compel
conformity. Then our ancestors came, abhorriing religious dupremacy, bringing with them liberty of conscience, and" the whole law
of religious charities. They asked the crown to give them religious
endowments, but not charities, and were at last compelled to take
the act of 1730. ' Churches of all sects had been built, even Roman
Catholic. In Magill and Brown, page 55, note, Judge Baldwin
mentions forty-six charities, none of *hich were religious. The statutes 23 Henry 8, chap. 19, and 13 Elizabeth, chap. 1, make decrees
of synods a part of the law of the land.
The Pennsylvania act of 1791, (Purdon's Digest, p. 181,) recites
that any persons who mean to associate for the purposes of charity,
may be incorporated with the approbation of the attorney-general.
P
'VOL. M-22

170

SUPREME COURT.
Vidal et al. v. Girard's Exec'utors.

There never has happened a case where the property of any religious
society, Jew or Catholic, was seized upon.
There are two objections made to the validity of the devise.
I. That the proposed system of educaiion is unchristian.
2. That the beneficiaries are too uncertaii.
As to the first, all conscientious scruples, honestly entertained, are
entitled to great respect. If any man who has charge of an orphan
boy is afraid to send him to the college, he may keep him away
without censure. It is merely an invitation to come. The constitutgn of Pennsylvania respects all scruples of conscience, and if
children were to be dragged in .And kept by force, it would be a
violation of its principles, -Dut the will in effect says " obey conscience and yield it to nobody." This scruple is of recent origin.
It is not alleged in the bill. Perhaps the complainants felt no scruples then, but do ziow. If they slumbered so long, they ought to
have some chafity for Mr. Girard, in whose breast they never
awaked, But a great prize is now to be reached, and the judgment
may be affected bythe will. Two -things must be made out to
overthrow the devise upon this ground
1. That it is a superstitious use.
2. That. it is inseparable-fiora the trust.
The question is m.ore suitable to a theological board than a court
of justic6. That the law of charity is the law of the land, is not a
proposition depending upon theological inquiry. In Baxter's case,
the court was not called upon to say which party was right, but only
to decide what it was that the statute, said; and because Baxter was
a non-conforinist, the trust was declared void. What could a Pennsylhania judge have done in such a case? He would find liberty
of conscience established by the constitution; that in the constitution
of the United States it is provided that Congress shall make no law
affecting religion; and that Mr..Madison once affixed his veto to a
bill incorporating a church under an apprehension that it trenched
upon this deliate giound. It never was held that a charitable
devise must make provision for religious education. In the list of
forty-six before cited, thirty-seven are for mere charity. Does any
one desiie'that the old times- in religion should return, when a man
was allowed to do good only in a particular way, and in no other?
What was the spirit that led to burning the convent near Boston?
Precisely this. Religious acrimony now destroys property, if it does
not doom-to the stake.

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

171

Vidal et al. v. Girard's Eiecutors.

We have nothing to do with Mr. Girard's religious opinions. If
any dne. thin he can lead a better life, with' equal humility and
more zeal, let him try. Instead of there 'being any thing against
religion in the will, there is a manly and unaffected testimony in its
favour. The boys are directed to cadopt'such religious tens as
mature reason may prefer ;" any tenet, vithout exception. The will
then holds -religion to be inseparable from human character, but
thinks the best way of forming that portibn of the character is by
attending to it at mature age.- -Itis a speculative question. Can it
be said that Girard had no respect for religion? He showed a religious heart by bestoing upon the poor-what God had given'-him,
so that, like Franklin's legacy, " it might go' round." His desire
was that the children should 'be educated in the' manner which he
thought the best, to make them religious. Who isto decide whether
it is the best way or not? The objection assumes that the Bible is.
not to be taught at all, or that laymen are incapable of teaching it.
There is not the least evidence of an. intention to prohibit it from
being taught. On the contrary, there is an obligation to teach what
the Bible alone can teach, viz. a pure system of-morality.
Is it true that ministers alone can-teach religion? The officer at,
the hiad of the institution (Professbr Bache) is a religious man. Can
he not expound religion as well as.science to his pupils ? . The laymen are the' support, at last, of all churches. The "nextposition -willbe that clergymen are responsible. fQE every thing, and that a man
cardo nothing for himself. Every one has to teach his own childred. Why can he not equally instruct'those of 'other people?" The,
orplians are not to enter the college until a contract is made for them
by'somebody. According to the common law, an infant can bind
hitnself so some extent by a contract. So he can here. It must be
sandtioned by his guardians too, Noone-objects to a child being
bound out in a vessel where, of course, there is. a great chance of
his' dying without the benefit of religous:,services, and where his
voice, when in extremes, cannot redach afi ear which, it is said, it
ought to do. We must, upon this doctrine', condemn the House of
Refuge.' -But we may trust that tUe cry bf' a child will be heard in
mercy, although it may not reach the- ear'of a priest. If a father
should refuse "to instruct his children in religion, can the state interpose? Suppose that the iwill had faade-no.provision on the subject,
and. the governors of the college ha_ adopted this same regulation,
would the court have denounced, it as a violation of their duty?

172

SUPREME COURT.
Vidal et al. v. Girard's Executors.

The case of the University of Virginia is far beyond this. There is
no professor of theology, nor instruction in divinity. These *things
are purposely omitted, from a fear that the institution ;night become
sectarian. If Virginia permits it, she is' the judge-of its propriety
and not we. But Girard has neither prohibited religious instruction
nor a professorship. What will the United States do with the Smithsonian legacy ? -Congress cannot connect religion with it. Clothing
and.feeding the poor are worthy objects. Girard is said to have
expressed 'himself in terms derogatory to Christianity. Suppose he
had- used a different pbraseology, and said that none but laymen
should be admitted into the college. This would not have been
objectionable, and yet precisely the same result have been brought
about. Children are to be fed and clothed. This is not a superstitious use, and must stand. Will you destroy the patient, if there
is'an unsound limb? The case is 1eft with the court with a perfect
conviction that -it will not 'put the -knife to the throat of this most
useful charity.
Webster,.for the appellants, in reply.
The complainants in this-cause are the next of kin to Stephen Girard,
who come here to try the'validity of a devise, purporting to establish
what has been called a charity. The counsel on the opposite side
have assailed their motives, accusing them of.wis]ng to -steal the
bread of the orphan, and have censured them'for coming to this
court instead of resorting to the tribunals of Pennsylvania. The
plainfiffi are foreigners, and have a right to come here under the
Constitution of the United States. Are they to be reproached for it?
But the ansiver to this objection has already been fiished by the
opposite counsel, when they say that in Pennsylvania, the complainants would not have been permitted to question the devise. Here,
they are sure of a patient hearing.. The cause was not argued in the
Circuit Court because the question- arose in 'that court in 1833,
upon the construction of the will of Sarah Zane,* and the court in
its opinion, decided the point. It would,. therefore, have been useless
to renew the argument there, but the best way was to bring the subject directly up for review.
It was said by the opening counsel, (Mrs Jomes,) that in England
charities are often superintended by-the king in virtue of hs prerogative, and that no analogous power can exist in a republican governSee Appendix.

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

173

Vidal et al v. Girard's Executors.

ment, where there can be no parens patri&; and it was also said
that in order to establish a peculiar and local common law in Pennsylvania, one decision is not enough, but there must be a series of
decisions to sustain a system of law. Both these positions are correct.
But the attention of the court will be directed in the first place to
that clause. in the will which excludes clergymen, &c., from the
college; and it is. worthy of reflection whether th6 devise must not
be maintained, if maintained at all, upon the ground of its being a
charitable devise, and as such entitled to special favour. It is a
proposition of the highest magnitude, whether in the eye of jurisprudence it is any charity at all; the affirmative cannot be supported by
law, or reasoning, or decisions. There are two objections to it.
1. The plan. of education 'isderogatory to the Christian religion,
tending to weaken men's respect for it and their conviction-of its importance. It subverts the only foundation of public morals, and
therefore it is mischievous and-not desirable.
2. It is contrary to the public law and policy of Pennsylvania.
The clause is pointedly opprobrious to the whole clergy; it brands
them all without distinction of sect. .Their very presence is supposed
to be mischievous. If a preacher happens to have a.sick relative
in the college, he is forbidden to visit him. H6w have the great
body of preachers deserved to be denied even the ordinary rites of
hospitality? In no country in the *orld is there a body of-men who
have done so much good as the preachers of the United States; they
derive no aid from government, constitute no hierarchy, but live by
the voluntary contributi6ns ofthose to whom theypreach. It astonishes
the old world that we can get on in this way. We have done something in law and politics towards our contribution for the benefit of
mankind; but nothing so important to the human race ashy establishing
the great truth that the clergy can live by voluntary support. And yet
they are all sllut out from- this college. Was there ever an instance
bef6re, where, in'any Christan country, the whole body of the clergy
were denounced? The opposite counsel have gone as far back as
Constantine in their history of charities; but have they found or can
they find a single case, where opprobrium is fixed upon the whole
clergy? We have nothing to do with Girard's private character,
which has been extollei for benevolence, .Be it so. We are asked
if he cannot'dispose of his property.* But the law cannot be altered
to-suit Girard. Whatiseharity? it is the indulgence. ofikind affeetions-.love-sympathy for our fellow-creatures. In a narrow sehse
P2

174

StuPRI'ME COURT.'
Viail et al. v. Girard's Executors.

it means alms, relinf td the poor. . But the question is, what is it in
a legal sense? 'The object here is to .estbl a school of learning
and shelter; to give a better education. The counsel upon the other
side are right in spealdng of chaiity as an emanation of Christianity.
But if this be so, there can be no charity where the authority of God
is derided and his word rejected. If it becomes an unbeliever, it is
no longer charity. There is no example in the books of a charity
where Christianity is excluded. There may be a charity for a school
without a positive provision for Christian teachers, but where they
are expressly- excluded, it cannot be such a charity as is entitled to
the special favour aild protection of a court. It is said by the counsel
on the other side that Pennsylvania is not an infidel state, but a
Christian 'community; and yet children who are orphans, with no
parents to lo6k after them,' are directed to be shut in to stay until
they approach manhood, during the age when the character is formed,
and if they hapFen'to have any connections or friends who are clergymen,.they are excluded from ever seeing them. There are two objectionable features in-this restriction in the will. The first is that all
clergymen are exclidd from the college; and the second, that a
cruel experiment is to be made upon these orphans, to ascertain
whether they cannot be brought up without religion.
[Mr. Webster here, read a passage from one of the works of the
late Bishop White upon this point.]
The doors ofthe college are open to infidels. The clause, as it stands,
is as derogatory to Christianity as if provision had been made for
lectures against it. If it be said that ihfidels will not be encouraged,
the ans-ver is, that a court can only judge of the tendency of mbasures. The trustees must not be supposed to violate the will. But
it is said by the counsel that lay teaching can be substituted for
clerical. There are at least four religi6us sects which do-,not allow
this mode of teaching-religion; and it is as much against the spirit
of the will as teaching by clergymen. The object is to have no
religious teachifig at all, because in this way controversy will be
avoided. Lawyers are as much seetarians as clergymen, and lay
teaching leads' as directly to controversy as lay preaching. The intention of the will is, that the boys shall choose their own religion
when they grow up, The idea was dra&n from Paine's Age of
Reason, 211, -where it is said ," let us propagate morality unfettered
Girard had no secrets, and therefore used the
by superstition."

JANUARY TERM, 1844.
Vidal et aL

175

. Girard's Executors.

words whith he considered synonymous with "superstition," viz.:
cc religious tenets."
Ministers are the usual and appointed agents of Christ. In.human
affairs, where the ordinary means of attaining an object are rejected,
the object is understood to be rejected also ; much more is this the
case when the means are of divine authority. In the New Testament preaching is ordered both before and after the crucifixion.
"cIf any man refuse to hear," &c. " Go ye into all the world and
preach the gospel to every creature.", Different sects have different
forms of worship, but all agree that preaching is indispensable.
These appointed agencies have been the means of converting all that
part of the world which is now Christian. What country was ever
Christianized by lay-teaching? By what sect was religious instruction ever, struck out of education ? None. Both in the Old and New
Test ments its importance is recognised. In the Old it is said " Thou
shalt diligently teach them to thy children," and in the New, -Suffer
little children to come unto me and forbid them not." But this will
requires religion to be put off till mature years,-as if a knowledge of
man's duty and destiny was not the earliest thing to be learned.
Man is the only sentient being who- ]xgow§ that he is eternal; the
question "If a man dies, shall he live again?" can be.solved by
religion alone.
Is this school a charity ? What is to become of the Sabbath. It
is not intended to say that this institution stands upon the same au'
tority as preaching, but still it is a part of' Christianity. All sects
have a day which is holy, and hold its observance to be important.
Lay teachers will not do. Where are the children to go to church,
even if they go out of the college? There is no Christian father or"
mother who would not rather trust their children to the charity of the
world at large, than provide in this way, for their bodily comforts.
The single example of the widw's mite, read as it has been to
hundreds of nillions of people, has done more good than a hundred
marble palaces. No fault can be found with Girard -for wishing a
marble college to bear his name for ever, but itis not valuable unless
it has a fragrance of Christianity about it.
The reasons which the testator- gives are objectionable andderogatory to Christianity; they assume that a difference of£
opiniron
upon some religious tenets is, of more imp6rtance than a Christian
education, and in order to get rid of superfluous brancheS, they lay
the axe to the root of the tree itself., The sa~he objection is made

176'

SUPREME COURT.
Vidal et al. v. Girard's Executors,

by all the lower and vulgar class of the opponents of Christianity.
T'ne first step of infidelity is to clamour against the multitude of sects.
Volney, 84, (Ruins of Empires,) says, cthey all preach damnation
against each other, and all cry out 'our holy religion.'" The.opposite counsel say that Girard was in a difficulty, because if he had
thrown open the college to all sects indiscriminately,, they would not
have agreed with each other. But if it had been so, these orphan.
children would not have been in a worse condition than other children, and what father would not have preferred that -his children
should go to this college -under any form, than no form of religion?
All sects believe in a 'future state and in a creator of the world.
Suppose we carried out these principles of exclusion into our social
relations. Differing as ve do about 'govemment,.it would tear up
society by the ropts. All preachers unite in many points; they would
all agree with Franklin, who is reported in the letters of John Adams
to his wife, to-have said in the days of trduble, "let ushave prayers."
[Mr. Binney here cited the following authorities to show that
Jewish charities can'be sustained. 1 Ambler, 228, note; 2 Swanston, 487 ; 7 Vesey, 417; Sheltford, 107; Boyle, 27.]
Mr. Webster said the distinction between the Jewish cases and the
present is, that the -former were within the brdinary rules of law,
whereas this devise could only be sustained by being brought .under
the peculiar favour of the court, as it belongs to that class of charities.
But what -would be the*condition of a youth coming fresh from this
college? He could not be a witness inany court. He had. never
been taught to believe in a future state of rewards and punishments,
because this is a "ctenet" upon vhich he is enjoined not to make up
his mind until he can .examine for himself. What parent would
bring up-his child to the age of eighteen years without teaching him
religion? What is an oath in heathen lands as well as our own?
It is a religious appeal, founded upon a confviction that perjury will
be punished hereafter.. But if no superior power is acknowledged,
'ke party cann6t be a witness. Our lives and liberties and-property
all rest upon the sanctity of oaths. It is said that there will be no
teaching against Christianity in this college, but I deny it. The
fundamental doctrine is, that the youthful heart is not a proper receptacle for religion. ,This is not the 'charity of instruction. In monasteries education was always blended with -religious teaching. The
stahitf 4 Henry 4, chap. 12, in 1402, established charities of religion, (2 Pickering, 433,) and directed the s.choolmaster to perform

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

.177

Vidal et al. v. Girard's Executors.

divine service, and instruct the children. 1 Edward 6, chap. 14, to
the same effect. 2 Swanston, 526, 529, says that care was always
taken to educate youths in the. doctrines of Christianity, which is a
part of the common law of England. That-it is so, see 1 Benson,
296 ; 2 Strange, 834; 3 Merivale, 405' 2 Brn's Ecclesiastical
Law, 95; 2 Russell, 501; Younge and Collyer's. Reports in Chancery, 413, Attrirney-General v. Cullum, a fl authority.
.
-In this last case there was a charity for the use 6f the parish,'but
no provision for rqligious education. The court said that if the fund
were to be applied to education at all, a part of it must go'to religious
education; not the particular doctrines of the Church of England,'
but religion in a more, comprehensive sense.
Bache, in his Course of Education in Europe, describes a monitoral so¢ool in. Liverpool -upon Bell's plan, hut divine service is
performed every Sunday. In Shepherd, 105, the cases are summed up.
As to the Sithsonian legacy and the University of Virginia, the
former is not carried out, and. the latter is no charity. Upon this
branch of the case the whole argument may be presented in the following question, ,Is a schooli founded clearly on the prihciples of
infidelity, a charity in the appropriate sense of that word ?"
2. What is the law or public policy of Pennsylvania?
If there be a settled policy there, no gift or devise to overturn it
can be recognised. It is an independent state, a-popular government recognising all guarantees of popular liberty. It is lawful to
speak or write against all these guarantees, such as trial by jury, &c.,
but if the aid of a court be asked to carry on these. attacks, it will be
refused.
Mr. Girard in his lifetime might have paid people to write against
the right of suflige* but it is a different thing when it assumes the
shape of a charitable devise, and requires the strong aid of a court
to carry out the design. The Christian religion is. as much a part'
of the public law as any of these guarantees. , The charter says that
Penn came over to spread the Chr stian religion; and the legislatures
have often acted upon this principle, as where they punished the
violation of the Lord's day. 'That it is a part of the common law,
see 11 Serg. and Rawle, 394, Updegraff v. The Commonwealth.
So the court set aside a trust because it was iic'onsistent with public
policy. See the case of the Methodist church, 5 Watts. The policy
of a country is established either by law, or courts, or general conVoL. I.-23

178

SUPREME COURT.
Vidal et al. v. Girard's Executors.

sent. That Christianity is a part of the public law of Pennsylvania
by general consent, if there "were no other source of authority, the
churches, meeting-houses, spires, and even grave-yards over the
face of the country all show. The dead prove it as well as the
living.'
If the trust cannot be executed, can it be reformed ?
Who is to do'it?- The doctrine of cy-pres cannot apply and give
the benefit to some other society. It would be an extravagant application of the doctrine. Who is to supply the place of the trust
stricken out? The trustee cannot. It is a case where there is no
doubt of the intentions of the testator. They are positive. In other
caes there is room for discretion, but none here. The testator calls
these articles restrictions and limitations. Courts of equity have gone
to an extravagant.length in cy-pres cases, but it is impossible to reach
this.
7 Vesey, 490, said that if authority were out of the way, the gift
would. be void; and the case be one of intestacy; but the court
thought itself bound to follow authority and decree that the testator
-should be charitable in the court's way. See also Strange, 127,
Attorney-General v. Dowling. But the entire doctrine of cy pres is
rejected by the Pennsylvania courts. See 11 Serg. and Rawle, 93;
1 Watts, 226.
As to the second division of the argument of the case, what is the
law of Pennsylvania with respect to such devises?
This court will adopt the construction which, the courts of a state
place upon its laws. 2 Cranch, 87; 11 Wheat. 361; 2Peters, 58;
6 Peters, 290 ; 12 Wheat. 153. Thefe have been four cases de;
cided in Pennsylvania, viz.: 17 Serg. and 'Rawle, 88, Witman v.
Lex; 1 Pennsylvania Rep. 49, McGin v. Aaron.; 3 Rawle, 170,
Mayor, &c. v. Elliott, &c.; 1 Watts, 218, Methodist Church v.
Remington. All these cases are in our favour, except a single dictum
in one of them. The opposite counsel are obliged to reject'the points
decided in two. In. the first case it was decided that the statute of
Elizabeth was not in force, and the devise was not so uncertain as
to be void.. The second was a gift to a congregation for a house of
religious worship; in the third there was no uncertainty in the cestui
gue trust,,and in the fourth the trust was declared void.
The old' records of England do not militate against the decision of
this court in the case of the Baptist association., (4.Wheat. 1.)
There is-believed to be no case in them of an indefinite charity in

JANUARY -TERM, 1844.

179

Vidal et al. v. Girardfs Executors.

perpetuity sustained by the authority of chancery prior to the time
of Henry 8. Corporations competent to take, whether aggregate or
sole, are not included within this .remark. Decisions before the
43 Elizabeth are apt to be misunderstood, because the term cc charity"
is applied to cases where there is no uncertainty. 1 Proceedings in
Chancery, 208. Of the fifty cases cited from the old records, only
three are given at length; in one of which the objects of the trust
are specially declared, and in the other two there was a license from
the king. All the cases referred to did not take place before the
time of Elizabeth.*
6 The following remarks upon the old records of England, were hastily drawn
up and presented to the court by Mr. Ccdwlladcr, one of the counsel for the
complainants:The new information developed by the researches of the counsel of the appellees,.upon the obscure subject of the law of charities before the statutes 39 and 43
Eliz., tends rather to confirm than to invalidate the opinion of this court. expressed in the BapgistChurch.case, that there is no satisfactory evidence of an
uncertain charity of indefinite duration having been enforced before the statute,
or since the statute without its aid.
Cases of frankalmoigne, the Templars ihY Hospitalers, &c., &c., were those
of corporations sole or aggregate. Counsel, on both sides concur that the dissolution of monasterieS, and of certain ecclesiastical aggregate and sole corporations, and the recusancy and consequent disfranchisement of many incumbents of benifices of this descri7'ion, had, by the time of Elizabeth, caused
many charities, previously valid,
fail for want of their anterior support of
corporate trustees or administrato:i. The recitals and enactments of the statutes of this and the previous reigns, and particularly of the 39 and 43 Eliz. may
be explained by a due regard to this portion of the previous history of Englapd.
This is affirmed on both sides of the argument. It is not perceived that any
just reasoning on this foundation tends to support the proposition that indefinite
uncertain charities could subsist-,without the aid of an incorporation. On the
contrary, the natural infeience appears to be, that they could mot be otherwise
maintained,. without statutory assistance.
Judicial recognitions of charities before 39 and 43 Eliz. are liable to be misapplield, unless due care be observed in ascertaining the definition of a charilk.
as understood at that day. The cases in which nothing more is said thau thilt
.the trust, or use, or purpos was a charitable'one, prove nothing.. Whatevijr.
the true modem.technical definition- may be, the passages cited from Reeves'
History I;.ove, that the term charity in the olden time was frequently.applied to
trusts which were neither uncertain in their objects.nor perpetual in their duration; in other words, to subjects for which a trust could have bben"maintained
according to the o.rdinary -rules of property, as contradistinguished from the
rules of charities. Edwards v. Kimpton, read from (Record Commission) 1 Ca

180

SUPREME COURT.
Vidal et al. v. Girard's Executors.

The acts of the legislature- of Pennsylvania after the death of
Girard can have no effect upon the iights of parties which were then
vested.
The case in 3 Peters, 99, 115, Inglis v. The Trustees of the
lendar of Proceedings in Chancery, 280, was the case of a rent granted lor the
relief of the converts inhabiting the houge belonging to-the Master of the Rolls.
In Lyon v. Hews, same publicaion, vol. 2, p. 44, both bill and answer mention
works of charity as the objects of the trust to be enforced, and s4tate that"the
property had been left for religious and charitable purposes But the-purposes
and objects of this trust were specifically declared, and were, 1st. Finding a
pri6 xt by a year in a certain church; 2d. Making an aisle in the porch of the
same church; 3d. Marriage of five poor maidens; and 4th. Amending the highways in the lane behind the mews. Of these uses none was to be extended to a
-perpetuity, and none was in any greater degree uncertain than must necessarily
be the case with objects of a power or discretion exercisable within the period of
a perpetuity. So in Alderman Symond's case, in Moore's Readings, Duke, 163";
the "charitable use," decreed before the statute, "upon ordinaiy and judicial
equity in chancery," though not described as to its objects, appears to have been
-one of which a final disposition could be made within a reasonable period. The
case in 38 Assizes, 222, (a) Vol. 3, was one in which the distribution, for the
good of the testator's soul, was to be made by his executors; i. e. within a life
in being. Of the fifty cases quoted from these Calendars, three only are stated
at length. 'Of the rest nothinimore than a meager abstract is presented. Of
the three which are given at large, one, Lyon v. Hews, is mentioned above.
In each-of the two others, a patent or license had been obtained from the crown,
enabling the trustees to hold the land conformably to the provisions of the trust.
In many of the other cases, the proceedings, if given in full, would doubtless indicate the same thing. The statutes of mortmain must otherwise have prevented
the grants from being available. One of the- cases mentioned in the Calendar,
vol. 2, p. 264, Newton. v.Kitteridge, a bill to protect the complainant's title agan'st
an inquisition for charitable uses, by which his laud had been found to have been
given to the poor of Aldham, certainly occurred after, and was -founded on the
43 or 39 EIiz. The same thing is probably true of very many of the others of
which the date is not given. It is remarkable that although all of the cases in
the Calendar on various subjects are entitled as of the reign of Elizabeth, or of
earlier reigns, some of them, in the places where abstracted, are stated to have
occurred during the usurpation, and others at dates in the reign of James L
Of all the cases in ihe Calendar, only seven, including the three above mentioned,
are shown to have occurred before the statute 39 Eliz. But all this is perhaps
unimportant here. Upon such examination as-has been practicable, it is apprehended that none of the cases previous to 39 Eliz., and none of those'of uncertain date, can be said "afirmatively to have been,instances of indefinite perpetual
charity.
To understand some of them it is necessary to refer to 1 Edw. 6, c. 14, which
made masters of grammar schools corporations sole; and to understand a

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

181

Vidal et al. v. Girard's Executors.

Saior's Snug Harbour, rested upon the ground that the devise was
good as an executory devise.
If the devise in trust be void in this case, what btcomes of the
fee? It must rest somewhere. In England' where a devise was
made to a corporafioji which could not take, the fee was decided to
be in the heir at law. Hobart, 136. But where a court of chancery
charges itself with the whole administration of the charity, it takes
possession of the fee as an incident to this power. In Pennsylvania
there is no such authority anywhere, and this court cannot exercise
it. What is done in England is done by virtue of the statute of
Elizabeth,.which has no force in this case. Suppose the corporation had renounced the trust, what would have become of the fe ?
Could the court in such case have divested the heirs of the fee and
appointed another trustee? There is no power to remodel a trust as
in England, or to exercise a right of visitation.
There is a want of power in the trustee to administer the charity.
The fee must rest in the'entire body of the corporation whilst others
larger number of them, it will be right to refer to the doctrine which prevailed
before. the statute of Elizabeth, under which, gifts of chattel f to the poor of a
municipal or religious' corporation, were sustained as gifts to the corporation;
a doctrine which affirms the coipetency of the corporation, and the incapacity
of the poor. This doctrine is thus laid down in the note to the case in 38 Assizes,
mentioned above.* It is there stated to have been the opinion of the court that
if a man give bond or other thing, to A. and B., parishioners of a certain church.
and to the parishioners of the said church, the gift is good, and it vests in the
church, &c. The same doctrine, in those days, was held in the case of land
where there had. been a license or dispensation with the mortmain acts.
Of course the same rule applied where there was a trust for a corporation, or
for its poor, or its members. If the purposes of the, grant were consistent
with the objects of the charter, the gift could be sustained independently of the
peculiar law of charities. Now, with the exception of four or five instances
where the oharity does not appear to have been of undefined duration, and of
'which the date, whether before or after the statute 39 Eliz. does not appear, it
is believed, subject to correction, that in all the cases cited from this Calendar,
and not already particularly noticed, there had been a grant or devise to, or iii
trust for, a municipal or private corporation ; and in most instances the pMr_"eedin.g was by, oron behalf of,.such a corporation. These eases, therefore, furnish
strong negative evidence that the law before the statuteb 39 and 43 Eliz. did
not rest on the 'same footing as it has since stood upon. If it had been thus
established, the .tgastees for the inhabitants of a municipality, or for the poor
of a parish or a church, would not have needed the protection o the corporations
and quai corporations, under whose capacity to take and to enjoy, they appear
to hate thought it necessary'to shilter themselves.

Q

182

SUPREME COURT.
Vidal et aL v. Girard'sExecutors.

are administering the trust. It is true that sometimes trusts have
been conferred on the heads of corporations, and the whole body
been held responsible. But the will here can give no power. There
is no connection between this trust and the powers of the corporation.
The school is out of the city, and the only interest'which the city
has in it is that some of the poor may be provided for. But suppose
a defalcation to take place. The mayor, &c.; are chosen for the
purpose of laying city taxes for city purposes. Can they levy a tax
to replace the sum thus abstracted? Are the whole people of the
city responsible by taxation for an abuse of trust? Yet they are a
part of the corporation which is the trustee. The 16 section of the
charter contains the power to hold land, but this does not go far
enough. If the dity cannot execute the trust, what becomes of it?
It was the intention of the testator -that a particular trustee and no
other should execute it, and if that trustee is incapable of doing it,
the trust must fail atogether.
'By the Pennsylvaniastatufes of 1730, 1791,, and 1833, the policy
of -the state is shown to be that a moderate limit is fixed for the
amount of property held for religious or charitable purposes, first of
.Z6500, and afterwards $2000. These laws are intended. to act upon
just such devises as this. Can it be said, with these laws in view,
'that an unincorporated body, such as these boys, or any one in trust
for them, can hold property to the amount of $2,000,000 ? The
policy of the state is to prevent large 'amounts in perpetuity, and if
any one desires to exceed" the limits fixed in those laws he must
apply to the legislature for a special permission. Constitution of
Pennsylvania, sect. 37 ; Purdon's Digest, title Estates-tail.
Where is the supervisory power over this trust? In 2 Vesey, 43,
Attomey-G~neral v. Foundling Hospital, it is said that chancery must
supervise. When it is given to a corporation with povCer to trustees
to go on, there is no need of a supervisory power- except to protect
the fund. 2 Bro. Chan. Ca. 220, 236.
. In 17 Vesey, 409, it is said that if there ar6 no visitors appointed
in the charter, the chancellor interferes to visit, through a petition
addre sed to him as keeper of the great seal, representing the king
in person. But there is no such power to be found any where in
Pennsylvania. Girard should have provided for a charter, and the
legislature could have seen how much property was going into mortmain and: directed accordingly.'
The city is incapable of executina this trust because it cannot make

JANUARY

TERM, 1844.

1S3

Vidal et' aL v. Girard's Executors.

contracts beyond the range of its charter. Suppose the tust should
not be faithfully carried out by any agents, and the corporation be
held responsible. In Pennsylvania; in case of a judgment against
a corporation, any money on its way to the treasury can be arrested.
In Bridgeport, Connecticut, the corporation issued bonds upon which
there was a judgment, and private property in dwelling-houses seized
in execution; yet these persons could not prevent the bonds from
being issued. There is no security anywhere for any species of
property except by holding corporaltons to a strict exercise of their
power. No good can be looked for from this college. If Girardhad desired to bring trouble, and quarrel, and struggle upon the city,
he could have done it in no more effectual .way. The plan ii unblessed in design and unwise in purpose. If the court should set it
aside, and I be instrumental in contributing to that result, it will bethe crowning mercy of my professional life.
Mr. Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the court.
This cause has been argued with great learning and ability. Many
topics have been discussed in the arguments, as illustrative of theprincipal grounds of controversy, -with elaborate care, upon which,
however, in the view which we have taken of the merits of the
cause, it is not necessary for us to express any opinion, nor even
to allude to their bearing or application. We shall, therefore, confine ourselves to the exposition of those questions and principles
which, in our judgment, dispose of the whole matters in litigation;
so far at least as they are proper for the final adjudication of the present suit.
The late Stephen Girard, by Lis will dated the 25th day of December, A. D. 1830, after making sundry bequests to his relatives
and friends, to the city of New Orleans, and to certain specified
charities, proceeded in the 20th clause of that will to make the following bequest, on which the present controversy mminly hinges.
cc XX. And whereas I have been for a long time impressed,"' &c.
[See the statement prepared by the reporter.]
The testator then proceeded to give a minute detail of the plart
and structure of the college, and certain rules and regulations for the
due managemenrt and government thereof, and the studies to be
pursued therein, "compiehending reading, writing, grammar, arithmetic, geography, navigation, surveying, practical mathei.atlcs,
astronomy, natural, chemical, and experimental philosophy, the

184

SUPREME C O'URT.
Vidal et al. v. Girard's Executors.

French and Spanish languages," (not forbidding but not recommending the Greek arid Latin languages,) cc and such other learning and
science as the capacities of the severa scholars may merit or warrant." He then added, c I would-have them taught facts and things
rather. than words or signs; and especially T desire that by every
proper means a pure attachment to otr republican institutions, and
to the sacred rights of conscience as guarantied by our happy constitufions shall be formed and fostered in the minds of the scholars."
The persons who are to receive the benefits of the institution he
declared to be, cc poor white male orphans between the ages*of six
and ten years; and no orphan should be admitted until the
guardians, or directors' of the poor, or other proper guardian, or
other competeft. authority, have given by indenture, relinTishment
or dt erwise, adequate power to the mayor, aldermen, and citizens of Philadelphia, or to directors or others by them appointed, to
enforce in relation to each orphan every proper restraint, and to prevent relatives or others from interfering with, or withdrawing such
orphan from the institution." The testator then provided for a preference, 4,first, to orphans born in the city of Philadelphia; secondly,
to those born in any other part of Pennsylvania; thirdly, to those
born in the city of -NewYork; and lastly, to those -born in the city
of New Orleans." The testator further provided that the orplan
"sch6lars who shall merit it, shall remain in the college until they shall
"respectively arrive at between fourteen and eighteen years of age."
The testatbr then, after suggesting that in relation .to the organization of the college and its appendages, he leaves necessarily many
details to the mayor, aldermen, and citizens of Philadelphia, and
their successors, proceeded to say: c there are, however, some restrictions whith I consider it my duty to prescribe, and to be, amongst
others, conditions on which my bequest for said college is made and
to be enjoyed, namely: First, I enjoin and require," &c. [See statement of the reporter.] This second injunction and requirement isthat
which has been so elaborately commented on at the bar, as derogatory to the Christian religion, and upon which something will be
hereafter suggested in the course of this opinion.
The testator then -bequeathed the sum of $500,000 to he invested,
and the income- thereof applied to lay out, regulate, and light and
pave a passage or street in the east part of the city of Philadelphia,
fronting the river Delaware, not less than twenty-ohe feet wide and
to be called Delaware Avenue, &c.; aud to this intent to obtain such

JANUARY

TERM, 1844.

. 185

Vidal at al. v. Girard's -Executors.

acts of Assembly, and to make such purchases or agreements as -ill
enable the mayor, aldermen, and citizens of -Philadelphia to remove
or pull down all the buildings, fences, and obstructionsi which may
"be in the way, and to prohibit all buildings, fences, or erections of
any kind to the.eastward of said avenue, &c., &c. ; and he proceeded
to give other minute directions touching the same.
The testator then bequeathed to the eonmonwealth of Pennsylvania the sum of $300,000 for the purpose of internal improvement
by canal navigation, to be paid into the state treasury as soon as such
laws shall be enacted by the legislature to carry into effect the several improvements before specified, and certain other improvements.
The testator then bEqueathed the remainder of the residue of his
personal estate in trust to invest the same in good securities, &c., so
that the whole shall form a permanent fund; and to apply the income
thereof to certain siecified purposes, which he proceeds to name;
and then said: ccTo all which objeets,"'&c. ISee statement of the
reporter.]

These are the material clauses of the will which seem necessary
-to be brought under our review in the present controversy. By a
codicil dated the 20th of June, A.*D. 1831, the testator made the
following provision: " Whereas I, Stephen Girard, the testator named
in the foregoing will ard testament; dated February 16th, 1830, have
since the execution thereof, purchased several parcels and pieces of
land and real estate, and have built sundry messuageg, all of which,
as well as any real estate that I may hereafter purchase, it is my
intention to pass by said will; and whereas, in particular, I have
recently purchased from Mr. William Parker, the manion-house,
out-buildings, and forty-five acres and some perches of land, called
•Peel Hall, on the Ridge road. in Penn T'wnship: Now, I declare
it to be my intention, and I direct, that- the*orphan establislment,
provided. for in my said will, instead of being built as therein directed.
upon my square of ground between High and Chestnut and Eleventh
and Twelfth streets, in the city of Philadelphia, shall be built upon
the estate so purchased from Mr. W. Parker, and I hereby devote
the said estate to that purpose, exclusively, in the same manner as I
had devoted the said square, hereby directing that all the improvements and arrangements for the said orphan establishment, prescnbed
by my said will, as to said square, shall be made and executed upon
the said estate, just as if I had in my will devoted the said estate to
said purpose-consequently, the said square of ground is to constiVOL. IL.-2
2

SUPREME COURT.
Vidal et al. v. Girard's Executors.

tute, and I declare-it to be a part of the residue and remainder'of my
rQ and- personal estate, and given and devised for the same uses
and purposes as are declared in section twenty of my 'will, it being
my intention, that the said square of ground shall be built upon, and
improved in such a manner as to secure a safe and nermanent income
for the puiposes stated in said twentieth section." The testator died
in the same year; and his will and codicil were duly,admitted to
probate on the 31st.of December of the same year.
I The legislature of Pennsylvania passed the requisite laws to carry
into effect the will, so far as respected the bequests of the $500,000
for the Delaware Avenue aid the $300,000 for internal improvement
by canal navigation, accordhig to the request of the testator.
The present bill is brought by the lfieirs at law of the testator, to
have the devise of the residue and remainder of the real-estateto the.
mayor, aldermen, and citizens of Philadelphia in truqt.as aforesaid to
be declared void, for the want of capacity of-the supposed devisees
to take lands by devise, or if capable of taking generally by devise
for their own use and benefit, for want of dapacityto take such lands
as dtviseesin trust'; and because the objects of the charity for which
the lands are'so devised in trust are altogether vague, indefinite, and
no trust is created by the said will which-is capable
uncertain, aiid 0so
of being executed or of being cognisable at law or in equity, nor any
trust-estate devised that can vest at law or in equity in any existing
or possible cestui qu trust; and therefore the' bill -insists that as the
truht'in void, there is a resulting trust thereof for the heirs at law of
the testator * andethebill accordingly seeks a declaration to that effect
.and the relief consequent thereon, and for a discovery and account,
and for other relief.
The principal questions, to which the arguments at the bar have
been mainly 'addressed, are; First, whether 'the corporation of the
city of Philadelphia is capable of taking the bequest of the real and
personal estate for the erection,and support of a college upon the
trusts and for the uises designated in the will: Secondly, whether
these uses are charitable uses valid in their xiature and capable of
being carried into effect consistently with the laws of Pennsylvania:
Thirdly, ifnot, whether, being void-, the fund falls into the residue
of the testator's estate,-and belongs to the corporation of the city, in
viitue of the residuary clause in the will; or it belongs, as a resulting
or impliedtrust, to the heirs and next of kin of the testator.
-'question; so far as it.respects the capacity of the
As to the firs

-

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

191-

Vidal et al. v. Girard's Executors.

corporation to take the real and personal estate, independently of the
trusts and uses conhected therewithj there would not seem to be any
reasonable ground for doubt. The act of 32 and 34 Henry 8, respecting wills, excepts corporations from taking by devise; bft thi pr6vision has never been -adopted into the laws of Penisylvania or in
force there. The act of 11th of March, 1789, incorporating the city
of Philadelphia, expressly provides that the corporation, thereby constituted by the name and style of the Mayor, Aldermen, and Citizens
of Philadelphia, shall have perpetual succession, "cand th*y and their
successors shall at all times for ever be capable in law to have, purchase, take, receive, possess, ard enjoy lands, tenements and hereditaments, liberties, franchises and jurisdictions, goods, chattels, and
effects-to them and their successors for ever, or for any other or less
estate," &c., without any limitation whatsoever as to the value or
amount thereof, or as to the purposes to which the same were to be
applied, except so fhr as may be gathered -from the preamble of the
act, which recites that the then administration of government within
the city of Philadelphia was in its form " inadequate to the suppression of vice and immorality, to the advancement of the public health
and order, and to the promotion of trade, industry, and-happiness, and
in order to provide against the evils occasioned thereby, it is necessary to invest.the inhabitants thereof with more speedy, rigorous, and
effective powers of government than at present established." Some,
at least, of these objects might certainly be promoted by the application
of the city property or its income to them-and especially the suppression of vice and immorality, and the promotion of trade, industry,
and-happiness. And if a devise of real estate had I een made to the
city directly for such objects, it would be difficult to perceive why
such trusts should not be deemed within the true scope. of th city
charter and protected thereby. But iithout doing more at present than merely to glance at this
consideration, let us proceed to~the inquiry whether the corporation
of the city can take real and personal property in trust. Now,
although it was in early unes held that a corporation could not take
and hold real or personal estate in trust upon the gtound that theie
was a defect of one of the requisites to create a good trustee, viz., the
want of confidence in the person; yet that doctrine has been long
since exploded as unsound, and .too artificial; and it is now held,
that where the corporation has a legal capacity to take real or personal estate, there it may take and hold it upon trust, in the same

188

SUPREME COURT.
Vidal et al. v. Girari's Executors.

manner and to the same extent as a private person may do. It.
is
trae that, if the trust be repjugnant to, or inconsistent with the proper
.purposes for which the 'corporation was created, that may furnish a
ground why it may not be compellable to execute it. But that will
furnish no, ground to declare the trust itself void, if otherwise unexceptionable ; but it will simply require a new trustee to be substituted
byt-he proper court, poessing equity jurisdiction, to-enforce and perfect the objects of the trust. -This will be sufficiently obvious upon
an examination of the authorities.; but a single case may suffice. In
.oSonley v. The Clockmaker's Companr, 1 Bro. Ch. R. 81, there was
a devise of freehold estate to the testator's wife for life, with xemainder to his brother C. in tail male, with remainder to the Clockmaker's
Company, in trust to sqll for the benefit of the testator's nephews and
nieces. The devise being to a corporation, was, by the English statute of wills, void, that statute prohibiting devises to corporations,
and the question was, whether the devise being so void, the heir.at
law 'took, beneficially or subject to the trust. Mr. Baron Eyre, in.
his. judgment, said, that although the devise to the corporation be
void at law, yet the trust is sufficiently created to fasten itself upon
ttny estate the law may raise. This is the ground upon which courts
of equity have decreed, in cases where no trustee is named. Now,
this was a case not of a chartable devise, buat a trust created for
nephews and nieces; so that it steers wide from the doctrines which
have been established as to devises to corporations for charities as
appointments uhder the~statte of 4 Elizabeth: afortiori,the doc* trine of this case must apply with increased stringency to a case
where the corporation is capable at law to take the estate devised,'
but the trusts -re utterly dehors the purposes of the 'incorporation.
In such a case, the trust itself being good, will be executed by and
under the authority of a court of. equity. Neifher -is
there any positive objectin 'in
point of law to a corporation taldng property upon
a trust 'not strictly -within.the.scope of the direct purposes of its institution, but collateral to Ihem ; nay, for the benefit of a stranger or of
another corporation... In the cas6 of Greeh v.. Rutherforth, 1 Ves,
R. 462, a devise was made to St. John's College in Cambridge of
the perpetoal advowson of a rectciy. in 'trust, that -whenever the
church should be void and is nephew be capable of being presented
thereto, they should present him.; and on the next avoidance should
present one of his name and kindred,.if thereshould be any one capable thereof in the college,; if none such, they should present the

JANUARY

TERM, 1844.

. 189

Vidal et al. v. Girard's Executors.

senior divine thkn-fllow of the college, and on his refusal the next
senior- divine, and so downward; and, Jf all refusdd, they should
present any other person they should think fit. Upon the ar~umentof the.cause, an objection was.ta~ken .that the case was not cognisable
in a court of equity, but fell within the jurisdiction of Ahe visitor..
Sir John Strange (the Master of the Rolls) who assisted Lord Hardwicke at the hearing ofthe cause, onthat occasion said: ccA private
person would, undoubtedly, be compellable to execute it (the trust;)
and, considered as a trust, it makes no difference who are the trustees,
the power of this court operating on them in the capacity of trustees.
And thbugh they are a collegiate body whose founder has given a
visitor to superintend his own foundation and bounty; yet as between
one claiming under a separiate benefactor and these tr steesfor special purposes, the court will look on them as trustees only,.and obligethem to execute it uider direction of the court." Lord Hardwicke,
after expressing his concurrence in the judgment of the Master of the
Rolls, put the case of the like trust being to present no member of
another'college, and held that the court would have jurisdiction to
enforce it.
But if the purposes of the trust be germane to the objects of the
incorporation; if they relate to matters which will promote, and aid,
and perfect those objects; if they tend (as the charter of-the city of
Philadelphia expresses it) "to the suppression of vice and immorality, to the advancement of the public health and order, and to the
promotion of trade, industry, and happiness," where isthe.law to be
fbund which prohibits the corporation from taking the devise'upon
such trusts, in a state where the statutes of mortmntin do not exist,
(as they do not in Pennsylvania,) the corporation itself having a legal
capacity to take the estate as well by devise as otherwise? We
know of no authorities which inculcate such a doctrine or prohibit
the execution of such trusts, even though the act of incorporation:
may have for its main objects mere civil and municipal government
and regulations and powers. If, for example, the testator by his
present will had devised certain estate of the valu6 of $1,000,000
for the purpose of 'applying the income thereof to supplying the city
of"Philadelphia with good and wholesome water for the use of the
citizens, from the river Schuylkill, (an object which some thirty or
forty years ago would have been thought of 'transcendant benefit,)
why, although not specifically enumerated among the' objects of"the
charter, wc 'd not such a devise upon such a trust have been valid,

190

' SUPREME COURT.
Vidal et iI. v. Girard's Executors.

and within'-the scope of the legitimate purposes of the corporation,
and the corporation capable of executing it as trustees? We profess
ourselves -unable to perceive any sound objection to the validity of
such a'trust; and we know of no authority to sustain any objection
to it. Yet, in substance, the trust would be as remote from the
express provisions.of the charter as are the objects (supposing them
otherwise maintainable,) now "undez our .considemtibn. In short,
it appears to us that any.attempt to narrow down the- powers given
to tka corporation so as to exclude it from tadkng property upon
trusts'for purposes confessedly charitable and beneficial to the city or
the pfiblic, would be to introduce a doctrine inconsistent with sound
principles, and defeat, instoad of promoting- the true--policy of the
state. We thinkl then, that the charter of the city does invest the
co~poration with powers and rights to. take property upon trust for
,haritable -purposes, which are not' otherwise obnoxious to legal
animadversion; and, therefore the objection that it is incompetent
to take or administer a trust is unfounded in principle or authority,
under the law of Pennsylvania
It is manifest that the legislature of Pennsylvania acted upon this
interpretation of the charter of thecity, in passing the acts of the 24ih
of March,' and the 4th of April, 1832, to carry into effect certain improvements and execute certain trusts, under the will of Mr. Girard.
The preamble to the trust act,, expressly states that it is passed "to
effect the improvements contemplated by'the said testator, and to'exe-,
cute, in all otiier respects, the trusts created by his will," as to which,
the. testator had desired the legislafure to pass the necessary laws.
The tenth section of t-! same act, proides "That it shall be lawfil
for the mayor, aldermen, and citizens of Philadelphia, to exercise all
such jurisdiction, enact all such ordinances, and to do and execute
all such 'acts and things whatsoever, as may be necessary and convenient for the fill and.,entire acceptance, execution, and prosecution
of any and all the devises, bequests, trusts, and provisions contained
in the said will, &c., &c. ; to carry which i.nto effect," the testator
had desired the legislature to enact the necessary ]aws. But what is
wore d irect-to the- present purpose, because it imports a full recognition of the validity of the devise for the erection of the college, is the
provision of the 11th section of the same act, which declares " That
no road or street shall be laid out, or passed through the land in the
county of Philadelphia, bequeathed by the late Stephen Girard for
the erection of,a college, unless the -same shall be recommended by

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

191

Vidal et al v. Girard's Executors.

the trustees or directors of the said college,, and approved by a
majority of the select and common councils of the city of Philadel-.,
phia? The other act.is also full and d&ect to the same purpose,
and provides " That the select and common councils of, the city of.,
Philadelphia, shall be and they are hereby-authorized, to provide, by
ordinance or otherwise, for the electioa or appointment of,such officers
and agents as they may deem essmtial to the due execution of the
dutids and trusts enjoined and created by the will of the late Stephen
Girard." Here then, there is a positive authority conferred upon thel
city authorities to act upon the trusts under the will, and to administer the same through the instrumentality of agents appoihted by
them. No doubt can then be entertained, that the legislature meant
to affirm the entire validity of those trusts, and the entire competency
of the c~rporation ta take. -and hold the -property.devised upon the
trusts named in the will.
It is true that this is not a judicial decision, and entitled to
full weight and con.^Aence as such. But it is a legislative exposition-and confirmation of the competency of the corporation to take
the property and execute the trusts; and if those trus wera valid ih"
point of law, the legislature would be estopped thereafterto contest,
the competency of the corporation to tale the property and execute
the trusts, either upon a quo warranto or any other proceeding, by
which it should seek to devest the property, and invest other trustees
with the execution of the trusts, upon the ground of any supposed
incompetency of the corporation. And if the trusts were in themselves
valid in point of law, it is plain that neither the heirs of the testator,
nor any other private persons, could have any right to inquire into,
or contest the right of the corporation to take the property, or to
execute the trusts; but this right Would exclusively belong to the
state in its sovereign capacity, and in its sole discretion, to inquire
into and contest the same by a quo warranto, or other proper judicial
proceeding. In this vi. w of the matter, the recognition and confirmation of the devises and trusts of-the will by the legislature, are
of the highest importance and potency.
We are,' then, led directly to the consideration of the question
which has been so elaborately argued at the-bar, as to the validity
of the trusts for the erection of-the college, according to'the requireinents and regulations of the will of the testator. That the trusts are
of an eleemosynary nature, and charitable uses in a judicial sense,
,we entertain no doubt. Not only are charities for the maintenance

192

SUPREME CLOURT,
Vidal et a]. v. Girard's Executors.

and relief of the poor, sick, and impotent, charities in the sense of
the common law, but also donations given for the establishment of
colleges, schools, and seniinaies of learning, and especially such as
are for the education of orphans and poor scholars.
The statute of the 43 of Elizabeth, ch. 4, has been adjudged by the
Supreme Court of Pennsylvania not to be in force in that state. But
then it has been solemnly and recently adjudged by the same court,
in the case of Zimmerman v.Andres, (January term, 1844g,) that "cit
is so considered rather on account of the inapplicability of its regulations as to the modes of proceeding, than in reference to its conservative provisions."
"c These have been in force here by common
-usage -and constitutional recognition; and not only these, but the
more extensive range of charitable uses which chancery supported
before that statgte and beyond it." Nor is this any new doctrine in
that court; for it was formally promulgated in the case of Witman
v. Lex, 17 Serg.. and Rawle, 88, at a much earlier period, (1827.)
Several objections have been. taken to the present bequest to
extract it -from the reach of these decisions. In the first place, that
the corporation of the city is incapable by law of taking the donation
for such trusts. This objection has been already sufficiently considered. In the next place, it is said, that the beneficiaries who are
to receive the benefit of the charity are too uncertain and indefinite
to allow the bequest to have-any legal effect, and hence the donation
is void, and the property result to the heirs. And in support of this
argument we are pressed by the argument that charities of such an
indefihite nature are not good at the common law, (which is adxiitted
on all sides to be the law of Pennsylvania,.so far as it is applicable to
its institutions and constitutional organization and civil rights and
privileges) and hence, the charity fails; and the decision of this court
in.the case of the trustees of the Philadelphia Baptist Association v.
Hart's Executors, 4 Wheat. R. 1, is strongly relied on as fully, in
point. - There are two circumstances which materially distinguilsh
that case from the. one now before the court. The first is, that that
case arose under the law of Virginia, in which state the statute of
43 Elizabeth, ch. 4, had been expressly and entirely abolished by
the legislature, so that no aid whatsoever could be derived from its
provisions to sustain the bequest: The second is, that the donees
(the tru(stees) were an unincorporated association, which had no legal
capacity to take and hold the donation in succession for the purposes
of the trust, and the beneficiaries also were uncertain and indefinite.

JANUXRY TERM, 1844.

193

Vidal et al. v. Girard's Executors.

Both circumstances, therefore, concurred ;-a donation to trustees incapable of taking, and beneficiaries uncertain and indefinite. The
court, upon that occasion, went into an elaborate examinatioin of the
doctrine of the common law on the subject of charities, antecedent
to and independent of the statute of 43 Elizabeth, ch.4, for that was
still the common law of Virginia. Upon a thorough examination of
all the authorities and all the lights, (certainly in no small degtee
shadowy, obscure, .and flickering,) the court came to the'conclusiont
that, at the common law, no donation to charity could tbe 'enforced
in chancery, where both of these circumstances, or rather, where
both of these defects occurred. The court said: "cWe find no dictum that charities could be established on such an information (by
the- attorney-general) where the conveyance was defective or the
donation was so vaguelyj expressed that the donee, if 'nbta charity,
would be incapable of taking." In reviewing'the authorities upoi
that occasion, much reliance 'vas placed upon Collison's case,
Hobhrt's Rep. 136; (S. C. cited Duke on Charities, by Bri'dgman,
368, Moore- R. 888,) and Platt v. St. John's College, Cambridge,
Finch. Rep. 221; (S. C. 1 Cas. in Chan. R. 267, Duke on Charities,
by Bridgman, 379,) and the caie reported in 1 Chancery Cases, 134.
But these cases, as also Flood's case, Hob. R. 136, (5. C. 1 Equity
Abridg. 95, pl. 6,) turned upon peculiar circumstances. Collison's
case was upon a devise in 15 Henry 8, and 'as before the statute
of 'wills. The' other cases were cases where the donees could not
take at law, not being properly described, or not having a competent
capacity to take, so that there was no legal trustee; and, yet the
devises were held good as valid appointments under the statute of
43 Elizabeth. The 'lictum of Lord Loughborough"-in AttorneyGeneral m Bowyer, 3 Ves. 714, 726, was greatly relied 'on, where
he says: "cIt does not. appear that this court at that period (that is
before the statute of wills) had cognisance upon information for the
establishment of charities. Prior to the time of 'Lord Ellesmere, as
far as tradition in times immediately following goes, there were no
such informations as this on which I am now sitting, (an iifdrmation
to establish a college under a devise before the statute -6f mortmain'
of 9 Geo. 2, ch. 36;) .but they made out their'case as well as they
could at law." In this suggestion Lord Loughborough had.un'der
his consideration Porter?s case, 1 Co. Rep. 16. But there a devise
was made in 32 Henry 8, to the testator's wife, upon condition for
her to grant the lands, &c., in all convenient speed after his decease
VOL. H.-25
R

194

SUPREME COURT.
Vidal et al. v. Girards Executors.

for the maintenance and continuance of a certain free-school, and
almsmen and alnswomen for ever. The heir entered for and after
condition broken, and then conveyed the game lands to Queen Elizabeth in 34 of her reign;' and the queen brought an information of
intrusion against Porter for the land in the same year. One question
was, whetfer the devise was not to a superstitious use, and therefore
void under the act of 23 Henry 8, ch. 2, or whether it was good as
a charitable use. And it was resolved by the court that the use was
a good charitable use, and that the statute did not extend to it, So
that here we have a plain case of a charity held good, before the
statute of Elizabeth, upon the ground of the common law, there being
a good devisee originally, although the condition was broken and
the use was for charitable purposes in some respects indefinite.
Now if there was a good devisee to take as trustee, and the charity
was good at the common law, it seems- somewhat difficult to say,.
why, if no legal remedy was adequate to redress it, the Court of
Chancery might not enforce the trust, since trusts for other specific
purposes, were then, at least when there were designated trustees,
within the jurisdiction of chancery.
There are, however, dicta of eminent judges, (some of which were
commented upon in the case of 4 Wheat. R. 1,) which.do certainly
support the doctrine that charitable uses might be enforced in chancery upon the general jurisdiction of the court, independently of .he
statute of 43 of Elizabeth; and that the jurisdiction had been acted
upon not only subsequent but antecedent to that statute. Such was
the opinion of Sir Joseph Jekyll in Eyre v. Countess of Shaftsbury,
(2 P. Will. R. 102, 2 Equity Abridg. 710, pl. 2,) and that of Lord
Northington in Attorney-General v. Tancred, 1 Eden, R. 10, (S. C.
Ambler, R. 351, 1 Win. Black. R. 90,) and that of Lord Chief Justice Wilmot in his elaborate judgment in Attorney-General v. Lady
Downing, Wilmot's Notes, p. 1, 26, given after an examination of
all the leading authorities.. Lord Eldon, in the Attorney-General v.
The Skinner's Company, 2 Russ. R. 407, intimalas in clear terms his
doubts whether the jurisdiction of chancery over charities arose solely
under the statute of Elizabeth; suggesting that the statute hs perhaps been construed with reference to a supposed antecedent jurisdiction of the court) by which void devises to charita.ble purposes
were sustained. Sir John Leach, in the case of a charitable use be'fore the statute of Elizabeth, (Attorney-General v. The Master of
Brentwood School, 1 Mylne and Keen, 376,) said: cAlthdugh at

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

195

Vidal et 'al. v. Girard's Executors.

his time no legal devise could be made to a corporation for a charitable use, yet lands so devised were in equity,bound, by a trust for
the charity, which a court of equity would then execute."- In point
of fact the charity was so decreed in that very case, in the 12th year
of Elizabeth. But what is still more imporiant is the declaration of
Lord Redesdale, a great judge in equity, in the Attorney-General .v.
The Mayor of Dublin, 1 Bligh R. 312, 347, (1827,) where he says:
"eWe are referred to the statute of Elizabeth with respect to charitable uses, as creating a new law upon the subject of charitable uses.
That statute ouily created a new jurisdiction; it created no new law.
It creaed a new and ancillary jurisdiction, a jurisdiction created by
commission, &c.; but the proceedings of that commission were made
subject to appeal to the Lord Chancelor, and he might reverse or
affirm what they had done, or make such order as he might think fit
for reserving the controlling jurisdiction of the Court of Chancery as
it existed before the passing of. that statute; and there can be no
doubt that by information by the attorney-general" the same thing
might be done." He then adds, c the right which the attorneygeneral has to file an information, is a right of prerogative. The king,
as parens patri&, has a right, by.his proper officer, to call upon the
several courts of justice, according to the nature of their several jurisdictions, to see that right is done to his subjects who are incompetent
to act for themselves, as in the case of charities and other cases."
So that Lord Redesdale maintains the jurisdiction in the broadest terms,
as founded in the inherent jurisdiction of chancery independently of
the statute of 43 Elizabeth. In .addition to these dicta and doctrines,
there is the very recent case of the incorporated Society v. Richards,
1 Drury and Warren R. 258i where Lord Chancellor Sugden, in a
very masterly judgment, upon a full survey of all the authorities, and
where the point was directly before himii, held the same doctrine as
Lord Redesdale, and expressly decided that there is an inherent
jurisdiction in equity in cases of charity, and that charity is one of
those objects for which -a court of equity has at all times interfered to
make good. that, which at law -was an illegal or informal gift; and
that cases of charity in courts of equity in England were valid indeperidently of and previous to the statute of Elizabeth.
Mr. Justice Baldwin, in the case of the will of Sarah Zane, which
was cited at the bar and pronounced at April term of the Circuit
Court, in 1833, after very extensive and learned researches into the
ahcient English authorities and statutes, arrived at the same conclu-

196

SUPREME COURT.
Vidal et al. v. Girard's Executors.

sion in which the district judge, the latd lamented Judge Hopkinson,
'concurred; and that opinion has a more pointed bearing upon the
present case, since it included a full review of the Pensylvania'laws
and doctrines on the subject of charities.
But very strong additional light has been thrown upon this subject
by the recent publications of the Commissioners on the public Records
in England, which contain a-very curious and interesting collection
of the chancery records in the reign of Queen Elizabeth, and in. the
earlier reigns. Among these are found rpany cases in which the
Court of Chancery. entertained jurisdiction over charities long before
the statute of 43 Elizabeth; and some fifty of these cases, extracted
from the printed calendhrs, have been laid before us. They establish
in the most satisfactory and conclusive manner that cases of charities where there were trustees appointed for general and indefinite
charities, as well as for specific charities, were familiarly known to,
and acted upon, and enforced in the Court of Chancery. In some of
these cases the charities were not only of an uncertain and indefinite
nature,. but, as far as we can gather from the imperfect statement in
the printed records, they were also cases where there were either no
trustees appointed, or the trustees vere not competent to take. These
records, therefore, do in a remarkable manner, confirm the opinions of
Sir Joseph Jekyll, Lord Northington, Lord Chief Justice Wilmot,
Lord Redesdale, and Lord Chancellor Sugden." Whatever doubts,
therefore, might properly be entertained upon the subject when the
case of the Trustees of the Philadelphia Baptist Association v. Hart's
Executors, 4 Wheat. 1, was before this court, (1819,) those doubts
are entirely removed by the late and more satisfactory sources of information to which ive have alluded.
If, then, this be the true state of the, common law on the subject, of
charities, it would, upon the general principle already suggested, be
a part of the common law of Pennsylvania. It would be no answer
to say, that if so it was dormant, and that no court possessing equity
powers now exists, or has existed in Pennsylvania, capable of enforcing such trusts. The trusts would nevertheless be valid in point of
law; and remedies may from time to time be applied by the legislature to supply the defects. It is no proof of the non-existence of
equitable rights, that there exists no adequate legal remedy to enforce
them. They may during the time slumber but they are not dead.
But the very point of the positive existence of the law bf charities
in Pennsylvania, has been (as already stated) fully recognised and

JANUARY TEtRM, 1844.
Vidal et a.

197

v. Girard's Executors.

enforced in the state courtsof Pennsylvania, as far as their remedial process Would enable these courts to act. This is abundantly established
in the cases cited at the bar, and especially by the cake of Witman
v. Lex, 17 Serg. and Rawle, 88, and that of Sarah Zane's will; before Mr. Justice Baldwin and 'Judge Hoplknson. In the former case,
the court said ccthat it is immaterial.whether the person to take be in
esseor not, or whether the legatee were at the time of the bequest a
corporation capable of taking, or not, or how uncertain the objects
may be, provided there be a discretionary power .vested -anywhere
over the application of the. testator's bounty to those objects; or
whether their corporate designation be mistaken. If the intention
sufficiently appears inthe bequest, it would be valid." In the latter
case certain bequests given by.the will of Mrs. Zane to the Yearly
Meeting of Friends in Philadelphia, an unincorporated association,
for purposes of general and indefinite charity, were, as well as other
bequests of a kindred nature, held to be good and valid; 'and were enforced accordingly. The case then, according to' our judgment, is
completely closed in by the principles and authorities already mentioned, and is that of a valid charity in Pennsylvania, unless it is rendered void by the remaining objection which has been taken to it.
This objection is that the foundation of the college upon the principles and exclusions prescribed by the testator, is derogatory and hostile to the Christian religion, and so is void, as being against the
common law and public 'policy of Pennsylvania; and .this f6r two
reasons: First, becuse of the exclusion of all ecclesiastics, missionaries, and ministers of any sect hrom holding br exercising'any station
or duty in the college, or even visiting the same: and Secondly,'because it limits the instruction to be given to the scholars -to pure
morality, and general benevolence, arid a love of truth, sobriety, and.
industry, thereby excluding, by implication, -all instruction in the
Christian religion.
In considering this objection, the court are not at liberty to travel
out of the rec6rd in order to ascertain what were the private religious
opinions bf the testator, (of which indeed we can know nothing,)'nor to
consider whether the scheme of education by him prescribed, is such
a we 0ursdeves should approve, or as is best adapted to'acccm'plish
the great aims and ends of education. Nor are we ai liberty to look
at general considerations of the suppoged public interests and policy .
of Pennsylvania upon this subject, beyond what its constitution, and
laws and judicial decisions make known to us. The question, what

198

SUPREME COURT.
Vidal et al. v. Girard's Executors.

is the public policy of a state, and what is contrary to it, if inquired
into beyond these limits, will be found to be one of great vagueness
and uncertainty, and to.involve discussions which scarcely come within the range of judicial duty and functions, and upon which men may
and will coraplexionally difTer; above all, when that topic is connected with religious polity, in a country composed 6f such a variety
of religious sects as our country, it is impossible not to feel that it
would be attended with almost insuperable difficulties, and involve
differences-of opinion almost endless in their variety. We disclaim
any right to enter upon such examinations, beyond what the state
constitutions, and laws, and decisions necessarily bring before us.
It is also said, and truly, that the Christian religion is a part of the
common law of Pennsylvania. But this proposition is to be received
-with its appropriate qualifications, and in connection with the bill of
rights of that state, as found in its constitution of government. . The
constitution of 1790, (and the like provision will, in substance, be
found in the constitution of 1776, and in the existing constitution of
1838,) expressly declares, "That all men have a natural and indefeasible right to worship Almighty God according to the dictates of
their own consciences; no man can of right be compelled to attend,
erect, or support any place of worship, or-to maintain any ministry
against his consent; no human authority can, in any case whatever,
contr6l or interfere with the rights of conscience; and no preference
shall ever be given by law to any religious establishments or modes
of vership.". Language more comprehensive for the complete protection of every variety of religious opinion could scarcely be used;
and it must have been intended to extend equally to all sects, whether
they believed in Christianity or not, and whether they were Jews or
infidels. So that "we are compelled to admit that although Christianity be a part of the common law of the state, yet it is so in this
qualified sense, that its divine origin and truth are admitted, and
therefore, it is not to be maliciously and-openly reviled and blasphemed
against, to the annoyance of believers or the injury of the public.
Such was the doctrine of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania in
Updegrafffv. The Commonwealth, 11 Serg. and Rawle, 394..
It is unnecessary forus, . however, to consider what -would be the
leg.-I effect of a devise in Pennsylvania for the 'establishment of a
school or college, for the propagation of Judaism, or Deism, or any
-other form of infidelity. • Such a case is not to be presumed to exist
in a Christiann country; and terefore it must be made out by clear

JANUARY

TERM, 1844.

199

Vidal et al. v. Girard's Executors.-

and indisputable proof. Remote inferences, or possible results, or
speculative tendencies, are not to be drawn or adopted for such purposes. There must be plain, positive, and express provisions, demonstrating not only that Christianity is not to be taught; but that it ito be impugned or repudiated.
Now, in the lresent case, there is no pretence to say that any such
positive or express provisions exist, or are even shadowed forth in
the will. The testator does not say'that Christianity shall not be
taught in the college. But only that no ecclesiastic of any sect shall
hold or exercise any station or duty i, the college. Suppose, instead
of this, he had said that no person but a layman shall be an instructor
or officer or visitor in the college, what legal objection could have
been made to such a restriction? And yet the actual prohibition is
in- effect the same in substance. But it is asked; whyare ecclesias.
tics excluded, if it is.not because they are the stated and appropriate
preachers of Christianity? The answer may be given in the very
words of the testator. '(In making this restriction,' says he, c"I do
not mearr to cast any reflection upon any sect or person whatsoever.
But as there is such a multitude of sects and such a diversity of
opinion amongst them, I desire to keep the tender minds of the
orphans, who are to derive advantage from this bequest, free from
the excitement which clashing doctrines and sectarian controversy
are so apt to produce.? Here, then, we have the reason given;
and the question is not, whether it is satisfactory to us or not; nor
whether the history of religion does or does not justify such a sweeping statement; but the question is, whether the exclusion be not
such as the testator had a right, consistently with the laws of Pennsylvania, to maintain, upon his own notions of religious instruction.
Suppose the testator had excluded all religious. instructors but Catholics, or Quakers, or Swedenborgians; or, to put a stronger case, he
had excluded all religious instructors but Jews, would the bequest
havy been void on that account? Suppose he had excluded all
lawyers, or all physicians, or all merchants from being instructors or
visitors, would the prohibition have been fatal to the bequest? The
truth is, that in cases of this, sort, it is extremely difficult to draw any
just and satisfactory line of distinction in a free country as to the
qualifications or disqualifications which may be insisted upon by the
dbnor of a charit., as to those who shall administer or partake of his
bounty.
But the objection itself assumes the proposition that Christianity

200

SUPREME COURT.
Vidal et al. v. Girard's Executors.

is not to be taught, because ecclesiastics are not to be instructors or
officers." 'But this is by no means a necessary or legitimate inference
from the premises. Why may not laymen instruct in the general
principles of Christianity as .well as ecclesiastics. There is no
restriction as to the religious opinions of the instructors and officers.
They may be, and doubtless, under th auspices of the city government, they will always be, nrnn, not only distinguished for learning
and talent, but for piety and elevated virtue, and holy lives and
characters. And we cannot overlook the blessings, which such men
by their conduct, as well as their instructions, may, nay must impart
to their youthful pupils. Why may not the Bible, and especially the
New Testament, without note or. comment, be read and taught as a
divine revelation in the college-its general precepts expounded, its
evidences explained, and its glorious principles of morality inculcated ? What is there to prevent a work, not sectarian, upon the
general evidence6 of Christianity, from being read and taught in the
college by lay-teachers? Certainly there is *nothingin the will, that
proscribes such studies. Above all, the testator positively enjoins,
" that all the instructors-and teachers in the college shall take pains
to instil into the minds of.the scholars the purdst principles of morality, sb that on their entrance into aktive life they may from inclination and habit evince benevolence towards their fellow-creatures, and
a love of truth, sobriety, and industry, adopting at the same time such
religious tenets as their matured reason may enable them to prefer."
Now, it may well be asked, what is there in all this, which is positively enjoined, inconsistent with the spirit or truths of Christianity?
Are fiot these truths all taught by Christianity, although it teaches
much more? Where can the purest principles of morality be learned
so clearly or so perfectly as from the New Testament? Where are
benev6lence, the love of truth, sobriety, and industry, so powerfully
and irresistibly'inculcated as in. the sacred volume? The testator
has not. said how these great principles are to be taught, or by whom,
except it be by laymen, nor what books are to be used to explain or
enforce them. All that w6 can gather-from his language is, that.he
desired to exclude sectarians and sectarianism from the college,
leaving the instructors and officers free to teach the purest morality,
the love of truth, sobriety, and industry, by all appropriate means;
and of course including the best, the surest, and the most impressive.
The objection, then, in this view, goes to this,-either that the testator has totally omitted to provide for religious instruction in his

JANUARY

TERM, 1844.

201

Vidal et aL v. Girards Executors.

scheme of education, (which, from what has been already said, is an
inadmissible interpretation,) or that it 4ncludes but partial and imperfect instruction in those truths. In eithet view can it be truly said
that it contravenes the known law of Pennsylvania upon the subject
of charities, or is not-allowable under the article of the bill of rights
already cited? Is an omission to provide.for instruction in Christianity iri any scheme of school or college education' a fatal defect,
which avoids it according to the law of Pennsylvania? If the
instruction provided for is inbomplete and imperfect, is it equally
fatal ? These questions are propounded, because we are' not aware
that any thing exists in the constitution or laws of Pennsylvania, or
the judicial decisions of its tribunals, which would justify us in pronouncing that such defects would be so fatal. Let, us take the case
o0"a charitable donation t6 teach poor orphans reading, writing, arithmetic, geography, and navigation, and excluding all other studies
and instruction; would the donation be void, as a charity in Pennsylvania, as being deemed derogatory to Christianity? Hitherto it
has been supposed, that a charity for the instruction of the poor might
be good and valid. in England even if it did not go beyond the establishment of a grammar-school. And in America, it has been thought,
in the absence of any express legal prohibitions, that the donor might
select the studies, as well as the classes of persons, who were to
receive his bounty without being compellable to make religious
instruction a necessary part of those studies. It has hitherto been
-thought sufficient, if he does not require any thing to be taught inconsistent with Christianity.
Looking to the objection therefore in a mere juridical view,'which
is the only one in which we are at liberty to consider it, we are satisfied that there is nothing in the devise estalblishing 'the college, or; in
the regulations and restrictions contained therein, which are inconsistent with the Christian religion, or are opposed to any known
policy of the state -ofPennsylvania.
This view of the whole matter renders it unnecessary for us to
examine the other and remaining qiestion, to whom,'if the devise
were void, the property would belong, whether it would fall into the
residue of the estate devised to the city, or b.come a resulting trust
for the heirs at law.
Upon the whole, it is the unanimous opinion of the court, that the
decree of the Circuit Court of Pennsylvania dismissing the bill, ought
to be affirmed, and it is accordingly affirmea with costs.
VoL. II.-26

2SUPREME

COURT.
Chapman v. Forsyth et al
ORDER.

This cause came on to be heard on the trnscript 6f the record
from th_ Circuit Court of te United States for the eastern district
of Pennsylvania, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, It is.
now here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this
court that the decree of the said Circuit Court, in this cause be,
and the same is hereby affirmed with costs.

JOHN L. CAPMAN, PLriNTiir, v. HENRY H.'FoRsvrH AND THOrnoS
LIMECK,MERCHANTS AND CO-PARTNERS, UNDER AND BY THE VIRM,
NAME, AND STYLE OF FORSYTH AND LuIKRiCK, DEFENDANTS.
Under the late bankrupt act of the United States, the existence of a fiduciary
debt, contracted before the passage of the act, constitutes no objection to the
discharge of the debtor from other debts.
A factor, who receives the money of his principal, is not a fiduciary within the
meaning of the act.
A bankrupt is bound to state, upon his schedule, the nature of a debt if it be a
fiduciary one. Should he omit to do so, he would be guilty of a fraud, and his
discharge will not avail him; but if a creditor, in such case, proves his debt
and receives a dividend from the estate, he is estopped from afterwards saying that his debt was not within the law.
But if the fiduciary creditor does not prove his debt, he may recover it afterwards, from the discharged bankrupt, by showing that it was within the exceptions of the act.

Tns case came up on a certificate of division from the Circuit
Court of the United States for the district of Kentucky.
The'record was as follows:The following statement of questions and points of law -which arose
in this case, and the adjournment thereof into the Supreme Court of
the United States for decision -was ordered to be entered; to wit:
cc This was an action of assumpsit for the proceeds of 150 bales of

cotton, shipped to and sold by defendants, as the property of the
plaintiff, the defendant having been a factor," &c.

The defendant, Forsyth, pleaded he had'been duly discharged as

a bankrupt, on his own voluntary petition.
To this the plaintiff replied; the replication was demurred to, and

