JANUARY,TERM,

1844.

241

Droigoole et al. v. Farmers" and MKerchants' Bank.

was rendered on the 10th of May, 1843. During the same term; a
petition was filed by the defendants on the 26th day of the same month,
to have the.final decree opened for certain purposes;. and the court.
took cognisance of the petition and referred it to a master'commissioner. His report wasmade oni the 9th-of June following, the same
term still continuing; and the court then 'rerused to open the- final
decree; and fron this refusal as well as from, the final decree, the
defendants took an appeal, and gave bond with sufficient sureties,
on the 15th day of the same month, and the-appeal was then allowed
by the courf. Before that time the court had not fixed the penalty
of the bond.
Now7, the argtrment is, that as the original final decree was rendered more -than one month before the appeal, it could not operate under
the laws of the United States as a supersed.eas, or to stay execution
on the decree.; because to have, such an effect the appeal should be
made and. the bond should be given within ten. days after the final
decree. But the short and conclusive answer to this .objection is,'
that the final decree of -the 10th of May was suspended hy the subsequent action of the court; and it did not take effect until the 9th
of June, and that -the appeal was duly taken and the ppeal bond
given w.tbih ten days from this lastperiod.
Another and -the last ground of exception is to the want of proper
parties to the writ of error aid citation. No.writ of error lies inthis
case, but an appeal only; and the appeal having been made n open
court, no citation was necessary.
Upon the whole, we are of opinion thit the motion to dismiss the
appeal ought to be overruled, and it is accordinly overruled.

WiLLiAx

A.

A. DnoataOOLPn, FnEDERwcK G.

LAc6sTz, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V.

T

THE

uRBLL, AND CHARLES

FAnmREs' AND MER-

CHANTS' BANK or Mxssissn'r.
A statute of Mississippi allows suit to be brought against the maker and payee,
jointly, of a promissory n~te, by the endorsee;
But an -action of this kind cannot be maintained in the courts of the United
SItates, although the plaintiff resides in another state, provided the maker and
payee of the note both reside in Mississippi.
Tns case was brought up by writ of error from "the Circuit Court
of the United States for' the southern district of Mississippi.
VOL. II.-31
X"

'242
Dromgoole

SUPREME COURT.
et a! v. Farmers' and

Merchants' Bank.

In 1838, the following promissory note was executed:
Princeton; Washington co., May 17th, 1838.
'2899 _0
On the 1st of January, 1839, we' or either of us, promise to pay
to the .order of Briggs, L~coste and Co., two thousand eight hundred
and ninety-nine 50- dollars for value received, payable and negotiable at the Planters' Bank of Mississippi, at Natchez.
WuILL. A. IIRODIGOOLE,
F. G. TuRNBuLL.
The makers and payees were all residents of the state of Mississippi. Licoste, in the pattnership name, endorsed it to the Farmers' and Merchants' Bank of Memphis, the stockholders of which
are alleged to, reside in Tennessee. The bank brought suit upon it
in the Circuit Court of the United States for the district of Mississippi.
The suit was brought against Dromgoole and-Trmbull as the makers,
and also against L~coste; the junction being permitted by a statute
of Mississippi. The defendant6 pleaded in abatement as follows:
ccAnd the said defendants, who are citizens of the state of Mississippi, in their own proper persons, come and defend the wrong and
injury, and say: that' the persons -composing the commercial fin
of Briggs, L~coste and Co., to whom the said promissory note declared
upon was made and delivered at the time of its date and delivery,
then were, and yet are,.ciltizens of and resident in the state of Mississipi, and were so at the time of the supposed transfer and delivery.
of the said promissory note to the said plaintiffs, by reason whereof,
this honorable court cannot in law have or entertain jurisdiction of
this cause, and this they, the said defendants. are ready to verify:
Wherefore, the said defendants pray judgment of the said writ and
declaration, and that the same may be quashed.
SAND.nrts, for d~fendants2"
To this plea the plaintiffs demurred, and the court sustained the
demurrer. Judgment was accordingly entered for the plaifitiffs, and
to review the opinion of the court upon the demurrer, the present
wiit of error was brought.
The case was argued by Walker for the appellants, who relied
upon the cases in 16 Peters, 89 and'315.
-Mr.'Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the Circuit Court of the United States for
the southern district of Mississippi.

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

243

Dromgoole et a]. v: Farmers' and Merchants'"Bank.

The original action was brought by the bank of MAmphis, alleging
the stockholders to be citizens of Tennessee, against the plaintiffs in:
error, (the original defendants,) alleging them to-be citizens of Mississippi ; and it was founded upon a pr6missory note made by Dromgoole and Tumiill, (two of the defendants,) dated at Princeton,
Washington county, Mississippi, May 17th, 1838, whereby on ,the
1st of January,. 18394 they, or either of them promised to pay tc- the
order of Briggs, Licoste and Co., $2899 50, for value received,
payable and 'negotiable at the Planters' Bank of Mississippi, at
Natchez. The declaration alleged title in the bank to the note by
the' endorsement of the payees, Lacoste using the name. and description of Briggg, Licoste and Co. to them; and the suit was brought
jointly against both the maker and the payee, in conformity to a statute
of Mississippi, authorizing .such a proceeding. The defendants
pleaded that they are citizens of Mississippi, and that the persons
composing the firm of Briggs' Lacoste and Co. were, and yet are
citizens and residents of, Mississippi, and were so at the time of the
supposed transfer and delivery of the promissory note to the bank.'
To this plea there was -ademurrer and joinder, on which the Circuit
Court gave judgment for the bank; and-the present writ of error-is
brought te revise that judgment.
The 11th sectior1 of the Judiciary act 6f 1789, ch. 20, -provides,
-cNor shall any distrjct.or circuit court have cognisance of any suit
to recover, the contehts of any promissory note).or alter those in action in fivourof an.assignee, unless the suit might have been prosecuted in such eburt to recover the said contents, if no assignment had
been made, except-in cases of foreign bills of exchange."2 Now, the
present case falls directly within the prohibition of this clause. The
spiit is brought by the plaintifi to recover thecontents of a promissory note of which they are the-endorsees of the payee, and the payee
-and the makers are all citizens of Mississippi. The ground on which
the original jndgiient was given, probably, was that the statute of
MisSissippi required all the -parties to the note to be joined in the
suit; and as all the plairitiffs were citizens of Tennessee, and all, the
defendants citizens of Illssissippi, it was a case falling directly within
the general provisions of the 1lth section of the Judiciary act of 1789,
ch. 20, which gives jurisdiction to the Circuit Court in cases where
" the suit is between a citizen of'the state where the suit is brought,
and a citizen of another state. _' But it has been already decided by
this court, that the statute of Mississippi isof no force or effect in the

244

SUPREME COURT.
Griffia et anL v. Thoinpson.

courts of the United States, and that independently of that statute -no
'such joint action is by law maintainable. This was decided in
Keary v. The Farmers' and Merchants' Bank of Memphis, 16 Peters,
89. The other point, that the case falls within the prohibition of the
11th section of the.Judiciary act of 1789, ch. 20, was as fully recognised by this court in Gibson and Martin v. Chew, 16 Peters, 315.
There is nothing then in the present case which is open for argument. The judgment of the Circuit Court of the southern district
of Mississippi is, therefore, reversed, and the'cause remanded to that
court with directions to. enter a judgment for the defendants.
ORDER.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from. the Circuit Court of the United States for the southern district
On: consideration
of Mississippi, 'and was argued by counsel.
whereof, It is now here ordered and adjudged by. this court, that
the judgment of the said Circuit Cout, in this cause be, and the
sanie is hereby reversed with costs, and that this cause be, and the
same is hereby remanded to the said Circuit Court, with directions
to that-court to enter judgment for the defendants.

Taoms Gn~ri; AND H-GH ERvn v. RoiBERTI Tkosom.
A marshal has no right to receive 'bank notes in discharge of an execution
unless authorized to do so by the plaifitiff.
If the marshal does receive such papers, the court, in thd exercise of its power
to correct the irregularities of its officer, will refuse a motion of the defendant
to have'satisfaction entered on the judgment, and refuse also to quash a second
fi-i faci-.

UPON a .certificaie of division from the judges'of the Circuit'Court
for the southern' district ofMissismppi.
This was a motion made- by Thomas Griffin and Hugh Erwin to
have satisfaction. entered on an execution offeiifacias, which issued
from the clerk's office of the court against them 'on the 4th day of
June, 1840, in favour of Robert Thompson, for the sum of $f740 02,
with interest thereon at the rate of 8 per cent. per annum, from the
i/th day of November, 18.39, until paid, together with costs. And
aiso to quash an execution offieri facW which issued against them,

