JAN'Uk-RY TERM, 1844.

-Ex PARTE

Brmny.

The original .jurisdiction of'this court does not extend Cothe-case of a petition
by a private individual, for"a habeas corpus to bring up the body of his infant
daughter, alleged to be unlawfully detained from him.

MR. JusrcF, STORY. delivered the opinion of the court.
This*is a petition filed in this court for a writ of habeas corpus to

be awarded to bring up the.body of the infant daughter of the petitioner, alleged to be now unlawfully debarred fidm him, and in the
custody of Mrs. Mary Merctin, the grandmother of the said child,
in the district ofNewYo
-k.,
The petitioner'is a subject of the queen
of Great. Britain;. and the. application in effect seeks the exercise
of original'jirisdiction in the matter upon which-it is founded.' No
applidation has been made to :the Circuit Court of the United States
for the- district of New York,' for relief in th6 premises, either by a
writ of habeas corpus or de hmim replegiandq, or otherwise; and,
of course, no case is presented for the exercise of the appellate jurisdiction of'this court byany review of the final decision and aw .
of the Circuit Coiirtupon any such pioceedings. Nor is any c-is.
presented 'for the exercise of the appellate jurisdiction -of this court
upon a writ of error tb th "decision of the highest court of law
and equity in the state of 'New York, upon the' grquwd- of any
question. arising under the 25th section of the-Judiciary act of 1789,
ch. 20.
The case, then, is one avowedly and nakedly for the exercise of"
original juiisdictibn 'by this court. Now the Constidtion of the
United States has not confided any original jurisdibtion to this court,
except c all cases affecting ambassadors, other public.ministers,
and consuls, and those in which a state shall be a party.?' The
present case falls 'not within either predicament. It is th6 case of a
private individual who is an alien -seeking redress for a supposed
wrong done him by another private individual, who is a citizen of
New York. It is plain, therefore, that this court has no original
jurisdiction to entertain the present petiion; and we cdnnot issue
any writ of habeas corpas, except when it is hecessary for the exercise of the jurisdiction, original or appellate, given to it by the Constitution or laws of the United States. Without, therefore, entering
into the merits of the-present application, we are compelled, by our
duty, to dismiss the petition, leaving the petitioner to seek redress
VOL. i.-9

F2

SUPREME COURT.
Burke v. McKay.

in such other tribunal of the United States as may be entitled to
grant it. If the petitioner has any title to redress in those tribunals,
the vacancy in the office of the judge of this court assigned to that
circuit and district creates no legal obstruction to the pursuit thereof

S AiDiNG v. THE 'PEOPLE OF THE STATE OF NEW
FnRbERicE: F. BACKus.

YoRK,

EX

REL,

An appeal bond given to the people or to the relator is good, and if -forfeited,
may be'suedupon by either.

.Beardsley moved to dismiss the Writ of error in this case,
because Spalding had given a bond to The People of the State of
New York, or Frederick F. Backus.
But Mr. Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the court, and
said that the bond was good, and, if forfeited, might be sued upon in
the name of the people or of the rlator, at the option of the government.

-

GiENDY BURKE, PLAiNTIFF IN ERROR, V. ROBERT McKAY.
By the general law merchant, no protest is required to be made upbn the dishonour of any promissory note ; but it is exclusively confined to foreign bills
of exchange.
Neither is it a necessary part of the official duty of a notary, to give notice to
4he endorser of the dishopour of a promissory note.
But a state law or general usage may overrule -the general law merchant in
these respects.
"Where a protest is necessary, it is not indispensable that it should be made by
a person who is in fact a notary.
Where the endorser has discharged the maker of a note from liability by a
release and settlement, a notice of non-payment would be of no use to him,
and therefore he is not entitled to it.

Tens case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit Court
of the -United States for the southem district of Mississippi. The
suit was brought in the court below by the endorsee against the
endorser of the following promissory- note:-

