SUPREME COURT.

JOHN L. MCCRACKEN, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR, V. CHARLES HAYWARD.

A law of the state of Illinois, providing that a sale shall not be made of property
levied on under an execution, unless it will bring two-thirds of its valuation;
according to the opinion of three householders; ii unconstitutional and void.
The case of Brons6a v. Kenzie, 1 Howard, 311, reviewed and confirmed.
Where the Circuit Court, by a rule, adopts the process pointed out by a state
law, there must be no essential variance between them. Such a variance is
a new rule, unknown to any act of Congress or the state law professedly
adopted.
THIn case came up on a certificate of division in opinion from the
Circuit Court of the United States for the district of Illinois.
The case: was this: In 1840, McCracken, the plaintiff in error,
recovered a judgment- in the Circuit Court against Hayward for the
sum of $3986 67 cents and cqsts.
In February, 1841, the state of Illinois pagsed the following law:
"An act regulating the sale of property.
Sect. 1. Be it enacted by the people of the state of Illinois, represented in the general Assembly, That when any execution shall be
issued out of any of the courts of this state, whether of record *or
not, and shall be levied on any real or personal property, or both, it
shall be the duty of the officer levying such execution, to summon
three h6useholders of the proper coonty, one of whom shall be
chosen by such officer, one by the plaintiff, and one by the defendant in the execution; or, in default of the parties making such choice,
the officer shall choose for them: which householders, after being duly
sworn by such officer so to&do, shall fairly and impartially value the
property upon which such execution is levied, having reference to
its cash value, and they shall endorse the valuation thereof upon the
execution, or upon a piece of paper thereunto attached, signed by
them; and when such property shall be offered for sale, it shall not
be struck off unless two-thirds of the amount of such valuation shall
be bid therefor: Provided, always, that the plaintiff in any execution
issued from any court of record of this state, may elect, on what
property he will have the same levied, except the land on which the
defendant resides, and his personal property, which shall be last
taken in execution. And in all other executions issued from any of
the courts of this state not being courts of record, the plaintiff in
execution may elect on what personal property he will have the- same

JANUARY T.ERM, 1844.

' 609

McCracken v. Hayward.

levied; excepting and reserving, however, to the defendant in execution, in all cases, such an amount' and quantity of property as.is now
exempt from ex'ecutin by the laws of this state: And provided,
further, that all sales of mortgaged property shall be made according
to the provisions of this act, whether the foreclosure of safdmortgage be by judgment at law, or decree in chancery. The provisions
of this act shall extend to judgments rendered-prior to the. first day
of May, eighteen hundred and forty-one, and .to ill judgm'ents that
may be rendered on aiiy contract or cause of action accruing prior to
the first day of May, eighteen hundred and forty-one, and not to any
other judgments than as before specified.
"Sect. 2. When any property shall be levied on and appraised in
the manner required by'this act, and the same shall be susceptible
of a division, no greater quantity thereof than will be sufficient to
pay the amount of the execution or executions thereon leviedi
together with the proper costs, at two-thirds of the valuation. thereof,
shall be offered for sale by.the officer in.whose hands such execution
or executions may have been placed for collection.
"Sect. 3. This act shall be in force from and after its passage, and
the secretary of state is hereby required to have a thousand copies
thereof printed immediately after its approval, and transmit them to
the clerks of the county commissioners? courts of the several counties
in this state fdr distribution among the proper officers thereof.
Approved, February 27, 1841."
In June, 1841, the Circuit Court of the United States adopted the
following rule:
"When the marshal shall levy an execution upon real estate he
shall have it appraised and sold under the provisions of the law
of this state, entitled ' An act regulating the sale of property,' approved 27th February, 1841, if the case comae within the provisions of that law; and any two of the' three householders selected
under the law agreeing, may make the valuation of the premises
required."
In May, 1842, a pluries execution was issued on the judgment,
under which the marshal levied upon real estate, and advertised it
for sale in the ensuing August. It was appraised by three householders, and no person bidding two-thirds of the valuation, it was
not sold.
In March, 1843, the plaintiff sued out a venditioni eavonas to sell
VOL. l.-77.

SUPREME COURT.
McCracken v. Hayward.

the property ] vied upon as above stated; and in May served a
written notice on the marshal, directing him not to have the property
valued, but to sell it to the highest lidder, regardless of the statute
of Illinois. The marshal replied that he conceived it-to be his duty
to be governed by the rule of court.
In June, 1843, the plaintiff, by his counsel, made the .following
motion to the court:
,1. The plaintiff, by Arnold, his attorney, comes and moves the
court to set aside the return to the pluries execution issued in this
cause, dated 16th day of May, 1842, under which the property levied
upon was appraised, and not sold, because no one would bid twothirds of appraised value.
"12. That the court direct the marshal to sell said property to the
highest bidder, without regard to the valuation already made, and
without having it valued again.
"c3. That the marshal proceed to sell said property without regard
to the provisions of the laws regulating the sale of property, passed
•since the rendition of the judgmentbut that he execute the process
of the court, enforcing the judgment according to the remedy existing at the time of the refidition of. the judgment, and the making of
the contract between the parties.
,4. That the marshal be directed tW proceed and sell the property
levied upron, without regard to the provisions of the act of February,
1841, of the legislature of Illinois, and of January, 1843, regulating
the sale of property, above referred to."
This motion was sustained by an affidavit, setting forth the facts
in the case.
Upon the argument of the motion, the judges were divided in
opinion upon the following points.
1'1st. Whether the said motion shall be granted in manner and
form as the.same is asked or refused, or any part thereof.
".2d. Whether the return of the marshal on the execution above set'
forth, dated May 16, 1842, under which the property was appraised
and not sold, because two-thirds of appraised value was not bid
therefor, shall or shill.not be set aside as insufficient.
"3d. Whether the court shall or shall not make an order directing
the marshal to sel the property levied on in the usual mode at
public auction to thehighest bidder, without having the same valued
by three householders, and witliout regard to valuation which has

JANU-ARY TERM, 1844.

611'

McCracken v. Hayward.

been made, and without requiring two-thirds of said valuation to be
bid therefor.
"4th. Whether the court shall or shall not direct the marshal to
proceed and sell the property levied uppn without regard to the pro visions of the act of February 27, 1841, of the legislature of Illinois,
and the rule adopting said law at the June term, 1841.
"5th. Whether the court will or wilrnot direct the enforcement of
said judgment according to the laws regulating the remedy when
said judgment was entered and -thecontract made." :
Upon which certificate of division the cause came up to this .court..
The case was submitted upon a printed argument by Isaac X.
A
arnold,
counsel for the plaintiff, which the reporter regrets his limits
will not allow him to re-publish.
Mr. Justice BALDWIN delivered the opinion of the court.
It appears from the record in this ease, that the plaintiff obtained
a judgment against the defendant, in June, 1840, on which a pluries
fi.fa. issued at May term, 1842; real property was levied on ; appraised according to the provisions of a law of Illinois, passed on the
27th February, 1841, and the rule of the Circuit Court of that state.
adopted in June of the sam6 year, which law and rule are inserted
in the statement of the case by. the reporter.
The property levied on wvas advertised for sale by the marshal, in
August, 1842, but was not sold, as no one bid two-thirds of the
appraised value. In March, 1843, the plainliff sued out a venditioni
exponas, with directions to the marshal to sell the property, regardless
of the state law, which the marshal refused to obey, conceiving himself bound by the aforesaid rule of court. Whereupon the plaintiff
moved the court for an order difecting the marshal to sell to the
highest bidder, without valuation, or any regard to the state law
1. The plaintiff, by Arnold, his attorney, comes and moves the
court to set'aside the return to the pluries execution issued in this
cause, dated 16th day of Afay, 1842, under which the property levied
upon was appraised, and not sold, because no one would bid two.
thirds of fippraised value.
"2. That the court direct the marshal to sell said property to the
highest bidder, without .regard to the valuation already made, and
without having valued it again,

612

SUPREME COURT.
McCracken v, Hayward.

"13. That the marshal proceed to sell said property without regardto the provisions of the laws regulating the sale of property, passed
since the rendition of the judgment, but that he execute the process
of the court, enforcing the judgment according to the remedy existing at-the time of the rendition of- the judgment, and the making of
the contract between the parties.
"4. That the marshal be directed to proceed and sell the property
levied upon, without regard to the provisions of the act of February,
1841, of the legislature of Illinois, and of January, 1843, regulating
the sale of property above referred to."
On the argdment of this motion, the court were divided in opinion
on the points melitioned in the statement. These questions must
be considered in two aspects, 1. In reference to the Constitution.
2. The laws of the United States, as the tests of the validity of the
law of Illinois and the rule of court, which, it is said, affect only
the remedy, but not the right of the plaintiff arising on the contract
between the parties, and, the judgment rendered upon it.
In placing the obligation of contracts under the protection of the
Constitution, its framers "tooked to the essentials of the contract more
than to the forms and modes of proceeding by -which it was to be
carried .into execution; annulling all state legislation which impaired
the obligation, it was left to the states to prescribe and shape the
remedy to enforce it. The obligation of a contract consists in its
binding force on the party who makes it. This depends on the laws
in existence when it is made; these are necessarily referred to in all
contracts, fnd forming a part of them as the measure of the obligation to perform them by the one party, and the right acquired by the
other. There can be no other standard by which to ascertain +he
extenfof either, than that which the terms of the contract indicate, according to their settled legal meaning; when it becomes consummated,
the law defines the duty and the right, compels one party to'perform
the thing contracted for, and gives the other a right to enforce the
performance by the remedies then in force. If any subsequent law
affect to- diminish the duty, or to impair the right, it necessarily bears
on the obligation of the contract, infavour of on6 party, to the injury
of the other; heace any law, which in its operation amounts to a denial
or obstruction of the rights accruing by a contract, though professing
to act only on the remedy, isdirectly obnoxious 'to the prohibition of
the Constitution.

JANUARY TERM, 1844..

613

McCracken v. Hayward.

This principle is so clearly stated and fully settled in the case of
Bronson v. Kinzie, decided at the last term, 1 How. 311, that nothing
remains to be added to the reasoning of the court, or requires a reference to any btber authority, than what is therein referred to; it is,
howeverj not to be understood that by that, or any former decision
of this court, all state legislation on existing contracts is repugnant
to the Constitution.
cc It is within the undoubted power of state legislatures to pass recording acts, by which the elder grantee shall be postponed to a
younger, if the prior deed is not recorded within the limited time,"
and the power is the same whether the deed is dated before or after
the passage of the recording act. Though the effect of such a law
is to render the prior deed fraudulent and void as against a subsequent. purchaser, it is not a law impairing the obligation of contracts; such, too, is the power to pass acts of limitation, and their
effect. Reasons of sound policy have led to the general adoption of
laws of both descriptions, and their Validity cannot be questioned.
The time and manner of their operation, the exceptions to them, and
the acts from which the:time limited shall begin to run, will generally
depend on the sound discretion of -the legislature, according to the
nature of the titles i the situation of the country, and the energency
which leads to their enactment. Cases may occur where the provisjons of a law may be so unreasonable as to amount to the denial of
a right, and call for the interposition of Ihe court." 3 Peters, -290.
The obligation of the contract between the parties, in this case,
was to perform the promises and undertakingscontained therein; the
nfght of the plaintiff was to damages for the breach thereof, to bring
suit and obtaina judgment, to take out and prosecute an execution
against the defehdant till the- judgment was satisfied, pursuant to the
existing laws of Illinois. These laws giving these- fights were as
perfectly binding on the defendant, and as,much a part of thd contract, as if they had been sef forth: in its'stipulations in the very words
-of the law relating to judgments and executions. If the defendant
-had made such an agreement as to authorize a sale of his property,
which should be levied on by the sheriff; for such price as should be
bid for it at a fair public sale on. reasonable notice, it would have
conferred a right on the plaintiff, which the Constitution made in-iolable; -and it can'mjke no difference whether such right.is conferred
by the terms 'or law of the contract. Any subsequent law which
3F

614

SUPREME COURT.
McCracken v. Hayward.

denies, obstructs, or impairs' this right, by superadding a condition
that there shall be no sale for any sum less than the value of the property levied on, to be ascertained by appraisement, .or any other mode
of valuation than. a public sale, affects the obligation of the contract,
as much in the one case, as the other, for it can be enforced only by
a sale of the defendant's property, and the prevention of such sale is
the denial of a right. The sarame power in a state legislature may be
carried to any extent, if it exists at all; it may prohibit a sale for less
than the whole appraised value, or for three-fourths, or nine-tenths,
as well as for two-thirds, for if the power can be exercised to any
extent, its exercise must be a matter of uncontrollable discretion, in
passing laws relating to the remedy which are regardless of the effect
on the right of the plaintiff. This was the ruling principle of the
case of Bronson v. Kinzie, which arose on a mortgage containing a
covenant, that, in default of payment, the mortgagee might enter
upon, sell, and convey the mortgaged premises, as the attorney bf the
mortgagor; yet the case was not decided on the effect and obligation
of that covenant, but on the broad and general principle, that a state
law, which professedly provided a remedy for enforcing the contract of
mortgage, effectually impaired the rights incident to, and attached to it
by the laws in force-at its date, was void. No agreement or contract can
create more binding obligations than those fastened by the law, which
the law creates and attaches to contracts; the exprdss pbwer which
a -mortgagor confers on the mortgagee to sell as his agent is not more
potent than that which the law delegates to the marshal to sell and
convey the property levied on, under an execution. He is the constituted agent of the defendant, invested with all his powers for these
purposes. The marshal can do under the authority of the law whatever he could do under the fullest power of attorney from the execution
debtor; and' no state law can prohibit it. It follows that the law of
Illinois now under consideration, so far as it prohibits a sale for less
than two-thirds of the appraised value of the property levied on, is
unconstitutional and void.
The second aspect in which this case must be considered, is with
reference to the acts of Congress' relating to process and proceedings
in the courts of the United States in cases at common law. All the
earlk laws on this subject were carefully and most ably reviewed by
this court, 'in Wayman and Southard, and the Bank of the United
States a. Halstead in which it was held, that the proceedings in the

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

-615

McCracken v. HaywarA.

courts of the Uftited States should-be the same as they were in the
several states at the time of passing the acts of Congress, subject to
be altered by the Circuit Courts, or regulations of the Supreme
Court. That the proceedings on executions were to be governed by

such laws until final satisfaction was obtained, regardless of any subsequent changes by state legislation. 10 Wheat. 20, 51.
Prior to 1828, Congress had passed no'process acts applicable to
the states admitted into the Union after 1789. To remedy this defect,
and to confirm the decisions in the above cases, the act of May,
1828, directed that writs of execution and other final process issued
on judgmbnts and decrees, and the proceedings thereupon, shall be
the same-in each state as are now used in the courts of such state,
&c. ; thus adopting the same principles which had been established
by this court in the construction -of the acts of. 1789 and 1792.
Consequently no state law passed since- May, 1828, can have any
effect on the proceedings on executions issued from the courts of the
United States, unless such laws are adopted by those courts under
the proviso in the third section of the act.
The rule adopted by the Circuit Court of Illinois does not. fall
within this proviso, which declares, "that it shall b in the power of
the courts, if they see fit in their discretion, so far to alter final process
in said courts as to conform the same to any change which may be
adopted by the legislatures of the respective states for the state
courts."
This authorizes the court to adopt the change so made by a state
law, but not to adopt it only in part, or alter'it in any respect. The
law directs the appraisement to be'made by three houselhlders, one
to be selected by the defendant, one by the officer, and one-by the plaintiff, without any authority to any two to make it, and, consequently,
requiring the concurrence of all. The rule of court adopting this
law provides, "that any two of the three householders selected under
the law agreeing, may make the valuation required,.--such an
adoption is not warranted, by the act of 1828; itis legislation in
effect, by prescribing a new iule unknown to any act of Congress, or
the state law professedly adopted. But had the adoption been in
the terms of the law, it could not be 'recognised, inasmuch as the
appraisement therein directed, with the prohibition to sell at less than
two-thirds of the valuation" is repugnant to the Constitution of the
United States. It also conilicis with the process acts, as construed

616

SUPREME COURT.
McCracken v. Hayward.

in Wayman v. Southard, and the Bank of the United States v. Halstead, and the -repeated decisions of this court in later cases-that no
state law can be adopted under the act of 1828, which is in collision
with any act of Congress. 16 Peters, 94, 312-314.
It must therefore be certified to the Circuit-Court, that the motion
made by the plaintifPs counsel ought to be granted, and that the
directions to the marshal prayed for by the plaintiff, ought to be
given in the manner stated in the second, third, fourth, and fifth
points certified.

-

Mr. Justice CATRON.
The third section of the act of 1828, provides, "1that writs of exetion, and other final process; issued on judgments and decrees
rendered in any of the courts of the United States, and the proceedings thereupon, shall be the same, (excbpt their style,) in each state,
respectively, as are now used in the courts of such state."
A system of, rules has been adopted in the Circuit Court of the
Kentucky district, regulating final pracess, and giving a widely different effect to such. process from what it bad by the laws of Kentucky,; a. violent controversy was the consequence in that state, and
ibieh. gave rise to the cases of Wayman v. Southard, and United
States Bank v. Halstead, reported in 10 Wheat. The agitation
it is understood, Was one prominent reason for the introduction of the
act of Congress of 1828. It repealed all rules made by the courts of the
United States regulating final process, in all the districts, and adopted
the-execution laws of the respective states, as they then stood; and if
nothing more had been done, future legislation on the subject, by the
states, would'have been cut off. Cbngress, however, foreseeing new
states might come into the Union, to which the act would not apply;
anti'that it might be proper to adopt futurestate~laws, in the existing
states, provided-".that it should be in the power of the courts, if
they see fit, in their discretion, by rules of court, so far to alter final process in said courts as to conform the same t6 any change which may
be adopted by the legislatures of the respective states for the state
courts."
An. adoption of the state law, as the legislature had made that law,
is the extent' of the power conferred, If the courts catt alter the law
in one respect, it may be altered in all respects; this is not "conformity," but an'exercise of, the same power the act of 1828,

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

617

McCracken v. Hayward.

prohibited. The rule before us will illustrate it. The state law of
Illinois enacts that, three valuers shall determine the value of the
property levied on by the sheriff; ,one chosen by the plaintiff; one
by the defendant, and the other by the sheriff; that the three must
agree in the valuation; and if the property does not bring two-thirds
of such valuation, it shall not be sold
The rule provides, that if the appraisers disagree, the value fixed
by any two bf them shall be sufficient to authorize the marshal to
sell. The debtor will naturally select one, who he supposes will set
the highest value on the property; the creditor one he supposes will
fix the lowest value; the marshal may be favotrably dispbsed to the
one side or the other; most probably to the absent creditoi-thbe
appraiser of his selection, and the one selected- by the debtor, may
agree, and usually would. This will cut out all the advantage the
statute secured to the creditor, as his selection would have no effect:
Take it the other way) and the operation will 'be the same.
If this change were sanctioned, then, in Pennsylvania and other
states, where there are statutes by which lands are directed to be
valued by a jury of twelve, to ascertain whether the rents and. profits
will pay the debt in a given number of years; ii which case, the
debtor is compelled to.take the accruing profits in satisfaction as they
arise; and if not, then the lands are to be s6ld to the highest bidder,
could also be altered, and by a rule of court, a majority of twothirds of the jury be authorized to assess the annual income. It is
manifest, if amendments and alterations cain be made by the courts,
of the state statutes, they must,'of, necessity, run into an unlimited
discretion, if any one feature of the state law is retained. I therefore think the rule of court, adopting the statute of Illinois, with' the
foregoing amendment, is merely void; and that no part of the state
statute is in force in the Circuit Court of the United States in the
district of Illinois.
And not having been adopted, it is not before This'court for con-.
struction ; and that it is unnecessary and iiaproper to inquire into the
constitutioi'alty of the state law, as the laws in force in 1828 must
govern. In this respect, the opinion in the case of the United States
Bank v. Halstead is followed, where" the precise question arising in
the case before us was presented, (the rule aside,) and in which this
bourt then declined giving any opinion on the valuation law of Ken-.
tucky. I have formed no opinion, whether the statute of Illinois is
3
VOL. I.-78
t 2

SUPREME COURT.
McCracken v. Hayward.

constitutional or otherwise. The question raised on it is one of the
most delicate and difficult of any ever presented to this court; and
as our decision affects the state courts throughout, in their practice,
I feel unwilling to form or express any opinion on so grave a question, unless it is presented in the most undoubted form, and argued
at the bar.
On the questions propounded by the certificate of division, I agree
in the answers given by my brethren, because the execution is
governed by the laws of Illinois as they stood at the passing of the
act of Congress of 1828, without going farther, as I know the constitutional question will affect other states beside Illinois; many, not to,
say most of them have had, and some now have, valuation laws; in
which no distinction. is made between contracts made before the
passing of the act, and those made afterwards, and that the decision
against their validity as to past contracts, will reach a great way
farther than may be supposed on' a slight examination.
ORDER.,

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the district of Illinois,
and on the points and questions on which the jifdges of the said
Circuit Court were opposed in opinion, and which were certified to
this court for its opinion, agreeably to the act of Congress in such
case made and provided, and was argued by counsel, on consideration whereof, it is thl opinion of this court: 1st. That the motion
made by the plaintiff's counsel ought to be granted in manner and
form as the same is asked ; 2d. That the return of the marshal on the
execution .as set forth, dated May 16, 1842, under which the property was appraised and not sold, because two-thirds of the appraised
value was not bid therefor, should be set aside as insufficient;
3d. That the court should direct the marshal to sell the property
levied on in the usual mode at public auction to the highest'bidder,
without having the same valuedby three householders, witho'ut
regard to the valuation which has leen made, and without requiring
two-thirds of said valuation to be bid theref5r; 4th. That the court
should direct the marshal to proceed and sell the property levied
upon without regard to the provisions of the act of *'ebruary 27,
1841, of the legislature of Illinois, and the rule adopting said law at
the June term, 1841 ; and, 5thly and lastly, That he court should

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

619

Gaines et ux. v. Chew et al.

direct the enforcement of said judgment, according to the laws regulating the remedy when said judgment was entered and the contract
made. Wheredpon, it is now here ordered and adjudged by this
court, that it be so certified to the judges of the said Circuit Court.

EDMUND P. GAiNEs AND WiFE V. BE-vRLY CHEW, RicHARD RELF, AND
OTHERS.

It,
is impossible to lay down any general rule as to what con'stitutes multifariousness in a bill in equity. Every case must be governed by its own circumstances, and the court must exercise a sound discretion.
A bill filed against the executors of an estate and allthose who purchased from
them, is nbt, upon that account alone, multifarious.
Under the Louisiana law, the Court of Probate has exclusive jurisdiction in the
proof of wills; which includes those disposing of real as well as personal
estate.
In England, equity will not set aside a will for fraud and imposition, relief being
obtainable in other courts.
Although by the general law, as well as the local law of Louisiana, a will must
be proved before a title can be set up under it, yet a court of equity can so
far exercise jurisdiction as to compel defendants to answer, touching a will
alleged to be spoliated. And. it is a matter for grave consideration, whether
it cannot go further and set tip the lost will.
Where the heir at -law assails the validity of the will, by bringing his action
against the devisee or'legatee who sets up the will as his title, the District
'Courts of Louisiana are the proper tribunals, and the powers of a Court of
Chancery are necessary, in order to discover frauds which are 'within the
knowledge of the defendants.
Express trusts are abolished in Louisiana by tme law of that state, but that
implied trust, which is the creature of equity, has not been abr9gated.
The exercise of chancery jurisdiction by the Circuit Court of the United States,
sitting in Louisiana, does not introduce any new or foreign, principle. It is
only a change of the mode of redressing wrongs and protecting rights.

Tns case was a sequel to that which came before the court twice
before, and is reported in 13 Peters, 404, and 15 Peters, 9.
It came up again ftoin the Circuit Court of the United States for
the eastern district of Louisiana, sitting as a court of equity, on a
certificate of a division of opinion in that court; upon the three fol
lowing questions:

