JANUARY

TERM, 1844.

65'3 "

H-anson et aL. i,. Eustace's Lessee.

Mrs. Clark co-distributees with Mrs. Gaines under the will of 1811,
as to the one-fifth part of Daniel Clark's estate.
The purchasers are charged with having purchased with knowledge
of Mrs. Gaines's superior title; and with having fraudulently purchased from the execut6rs with such knowledge; there being jurisdiction to grant relief against the executors, in chancery, th6 same
court can grant relief against the purchasers, involved in the fraud.
of the executors. If they could be compelled to account in regard to
the -real estate when it remained in their hands; purchasers with
notice of Mrs. Gaines's rights; and who purchased with the intention
to defeat her rights and deprive her of them, can stand in no better
situation than the executors, an4 must account likewise; both being
held in a court of equity equally as trustees for the 'true owner.
Therefore, on the face of the bill, a-court of equity has jurisdiction;
and a court of law has not exclusive jurisdiction, and thus the third.
point ought to be certified.
ORDER.

This cause came on to be heard- on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the eastern district of
Louisiana, and on the points and questions which-were certified to
this court for its opinion agreeably to the act of Congress in such case
made and provided, and was argued by counsel. On consideration
whereof, 'It is the opinion of this court that the first question should
be answered in the affirmative; but that the bill should be so amended in the Circut Court as to avoid both of the exceptions stated in.
the opinion of this court, and 'that 'the second and third questions
should also be answered in the affirmative, With the qualifications
stated in the opinion of this court. Whereupon, itis now here ordered
and adjudged, that it be so certified to the judges of the said Circuit
Court.

WmLwL R.

HAX'soN, JOSEPH L. Moss, IsAAC PmLInPS, Jos p xH

Moss, AND DAVID
JoN

H.

SAHUEL,

M.

PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, v. LESSEE OF

EusTAcE.

A-refusal to-roduce books and 'papers under a notice, lays the foundation for
the introduolion of secondary evidence of their contents, but affords neither'
presumptive nor -prima fac&e evidence of the- fact sought to be proved by
them.

3L2

SUPREME COURT.
Hanson et al. v.

Etstace's Lessee.

'Where the fact sought to be proved by the production of b6oks and papers, is
the existence of a deed from one of the partners of a firm to the firm itself,
secondary proof, that an entry existed on the books of a transfer of real estate
to the firm; that au account was open, in them, with the property; that the
money of the firm was applied to the consideration of the purchase; that the
persons who erected new buildings on the property were paid by the note.sand checks of the firm, which buildings were afterwards rented in the name,
and partly furnished through the funds of the partnership; and that the taxes
were paid in the same way, is-not sufficient for the presumption of a deed by
,a jury, as a matter of direction from the court.
Nor are the jury at liberty, in such, a case, to consider a refusal to furnish
books and papers, as one of the reasons upon which to presume a deed; and
instruction from the court which permits them to do so, is erroneous.

Tins case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit Court
of the United States, holden in and for the eastern district of Pennsylvania. It wds an ejectment brought by Eustace, a citizen of the
state of Virginia, against the plaintiffs in error, for two pieces of property in the city of Philadelphia; particularly described in the
declaration. One of them fronted sixty-six feet upon Chestnut
street, being upon the west side of Schuylkill Seventh street, and the
other was on the westerly side of South Sixth street, between High
and Chestnut streets, fronting tw~nty-five feet on Sixth street, nearly
the whole of the lot being covered with a large building. The
plaintiff below, Eustace, claimed title under a sheriffs sale; the
defendant, Hanson, also claimed title under a public sale, but made
under the authority of the assignees of R. and I. Phillips, who had
become insolvent. Eustace alleged that the whole of the proceedings,
both before and after the insolvency, were void on account of fraud;
and that, this being so, there was nothing to impair his own title.
The firm of R. and I. Phillips, which carried on a very extensive
commercial business, in Philadelphia, was composed originally of
Robert Phillips and Isaac Phillips. After the death of the former,
which occurred, as will be hereafter stated, the partners were Isaac
Phillips and Joseph L. Moss, who continued to use the same partnership name.
In April 1830, Isaac Phillips was regularly naturalized as a citizen
of the United States.
On the 9th of June, 1832, Herring and wife conveyed to Robert
Phillips, in fee, the property in Sixth street.
In December, 1833, Robert Phillips died, intestate; Isaac being
then in Europe. John Moss, whose daughter Isaac had married,

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

655

Hanson et al. v. Eustace's Lessee.

entered a caveat at the office of the probate of 'wills, to prohibit any
one from taking out letters of administration upon his estate.
On the 29th of August, 1834, three several persons conveyed each
a lot upon Mulberry street, or Arch street, being called by either
name, (the three lots being adjoining to each other, and making in
the whole sixty-six feet,) to Sarah Moss Phillips, wife of Isaac Phillips, &ubject to the payment of a ground rent therein mentioned.
In September, 1834, Isaac Phillips entered into a contract withone Linck, a house carpenter, to: build a house for him on the -lot
just mentioned in Arch street, and agreed to pay said Linck $20,000
for it, in the manner stated in the contract.
On the 1st of January, 1835, R. and I. Phillips leased the pro-.
perty in Sixth street to one Saint for four years; R. and I. Phillips
agreeing to assist in furnishing to the amount of $1000, which was
to he refunded by Saint in the first year, after vlich Saint was to
pay $1600 per annum as rent.
On the 9th of June, 1835, Thompson and wife conveyed to
Isaac Phillips, his heirs and assigns, the Chestnut street property,,
subject to the payment of an annual ground-rent of $272 per annum;
.
and subject also to the payment of a mortgage debt of $3500.
On the 22d of June, 1835, Phillips, having purchased the groundrent thug reserved upon his lot, received a deed for it from the then
owner, paying $4533 33.
On the '30th of January, 1837, the register issued a notice to
John Moss, stating that, in consequence-of his caveat, no letters.of
administration had been taken-out upon the estate of Robert Phillips,
whereby the collateral inheritance tax was. unattended to,'and the
commonwealth was suffering
On the 4th of February, .1837, letters of administration were
granted to Isaac Phillips, who gave the required bond and security.
On the 13th of February, 1837, R. and I. Phillips wrote to Eustace, instructing him to draw on them at ninety days for $30,000 or
$40,000, and to send sterling or French bills.
On the 4th of March, 1837, Eustace drew a bill of exchfinge,
dated at Richmond, upon R. and I. Phillips, payable fifteen days
after date .to the order of Henry Thassall, for $9085 92, which was
accepted by the drawees.
1837,
Joseph L. Moss conveyed to David
On the 20th of March,

SUPREME COURT.
Hanson

et al.v.

Eustaco's Lessee.

Samuel certain property therein mentioned, situated on Walnut street,
for the sum of $7000.
On the 22d of March, 1837, Isaac Phillips and Joseph L. Moss,
composing the firm of R. and I. Phillips, made a conveyance to
Joseph M. Moss and David Samuel, reciting that the parties of tho
first part had been compelled to suspend payment, and conveying to
the parties of the second part " all ana singular the joint and several
property and estate of the said parties of the first part, and of each of
them, real and personal, situate, lying and being, or due, owing or
belonging to them or either of them, within the state of New York,"
upon trust to pay certain persons therein mentioned. This deed was
verified and recorded in New York, on the 23d of March.
On the 24th of March, 1837, Joseph L. Moss executed a warrant
of attorney, to confess judgment in favour of John Moss, for $48,000,
conditioned for the payment of $24,600.
On the 25th of March, 1837, David Samuel re-conveyed to Joseph
L. Moss the same property which Moss had conveyed to him on the
20th of March.
On the 27th of March, 1837, a jAo1ment was entered up, in ,-the
District Court for the city and county of Philadelphia, in favour of
John Moss, against Joseph L.Moss, for the sum of $48,000, in conformity with the warrant of attorney just referred to.,
On the 10th of April, 1837, Isaac Phillips conveyed to John Moss
the life-estate which he derived from being tenant by the curtesy, in
the Mulberry street property, which has been heretofore mentioned
as having been conveyed to Sarah Moss Phillips, wife of the said
Isaac, on the 29th of August, 1834. This property was subject'to a
ground-rent of $231 per.annum, but is understood to be considered
in Pennsylvania as a fee. The consideration received by Isaac Phillips is stated to have been $7102 17.
On the 27th of May, 1837, Joseph L. Moss execdited to John
Moss, a bill of sale of sundry articles of furniture, valued at $3950,
to pay in part the judgment which had been entered, on the 27th of
March, against the said Joseph L. Moss.
On the 3d of June, 1837, Isaac Phillips executed to Joseph M.
Moss a bill of sale of certain furniture, in consideration of $5707.
On the 22d of June, 1837, Isaac Phillips; and Sarah his wife, and
Joseph L. Moss, and Julia his wife, executed d deed to Joseph M.
Moss and David Samuel, assigning their property generally, and par-

JANUARY TERM;, 1844.

657

Hanson et aL v. Eustace's Lessee.
ticularly describing the two pieces of property which are the subjects
of the present suit, upon certain trusts. After providing for preferred
creditors, the deed directed the trustees to pay and satisfy in full, or
rateably, all the othdr creditors who should, on or before the 21st day
of August, 1837, at twelve o'clock, noon, and if resident in Europe,
on or before the 20th of October, 1837, at twelve o'clocki noon,
execute and deliver to the said R. and I. Phillips, a fall, valid,
and general release. The trust was accepted.
On the 8th of July, 1837, the propertythus conveyed was valued by
appraisers, appointed by the Court of Common Pleas, at $139,373 69.
The Chestnut street property.'was valued at $15,000, and: the Sixth
street property at $20,000."
On the 2d of October, 1837, Phillips and Moss separately petitioned for the benefit of the insolvent law of Pennsylvania, but did not
execute an assignment'of their property to trustees. Two of thecreditors opposed their discharge, but on the 19th of October, their opposition was withdrawn, and Phillips and Moss were severally
:discharged.
On the 17th.of November, 1837, Isaac Phillips, as the administrator of Robert Phillips, represented to the Orphans' Court that the
said Robert, at the time of' his death, was'seised in fee of the Sixth
street property; that he owed the petitioner the sum of $35,473 35,
and prayed for an order tQ sell the property. Whereupon the court,
on due coisideration, granted the prayer of the petitioner; and awarded an order of sale accordingly.
In December, 1837, an action -was brought by the Farmers' Bank
of Virginia against Phillips and Moss, trading under the firm of R.
and I. Phillips, in the District Court of the city and county of Philadelphia, upon the bill of exchange drawn upon them by Eustace as
before mentioned.
On the 19th of January, 1838, Isaac Phillips, as administrator of
Robert, reported to the Orphans' Court, that he had, on the 26th of
December, sold the Sixth street property to David Samuel, anl J.
Mor Moss, assignees of R. and.I. Phillips, for $22,500, which sale
was duly confirmed.
On the 22d of January, 1838, a judgment was entered in the Dis.
trict Court against R. and I. Phillips, at the suit of the Farmers' Bank
bf Virginia for the sum of $9541 58,. subject to the defendants' dis;.
charge uder the insolvent laws of Pennsylvania.
VOL. I.--83

658

SUPREME COURT.
Hanson et al. v. Eustace's Lessee.

On the 30th of January, 1838, Isaac Phillips, as administrator of
Robert, executed a deed for the Sixth street property, to David
Samuel and Joseph Morn Moss, assignees of R. and I. Phillips,
which was ratified and confirmed by the Orphans' Court.
On the 19th of March, 1838, a fie facias was issued upon the
judgment obtained in March, 1827, by John Moss against Joseph L.
Moss, for $48,000, the proceedings upon which were set aside on
the 5th of May for irregularity.
On 'the 11th of May, 1838, Eustace filed a bill in equity, in the
Court of Common Pleas against R. and I. Phillips and their assignees,
claiming that the proceeds of certain notes and bills should be specifically applied to the payment of his, the said Eustace's, claim.
On the 12th of May, 1838, an alias venditioni exponas was issued
upon the judgment in the case of John Moss against Joseph L. Moss,
and on the 4th of June the sheriff sold to John Moss, for $150 the
interest of Joseph L. Mos§ in the Walnut street property.
On the 8th of June, 1838, the judgment which the Farmes' Bank
of Virginia had obtained against R. and I. Phillips was entered for
the use of-Eustace, upon which afierifaciaswas issued on the 12th
of September. The sheriff levied upon several pieces of property,
amongst which were. the two which are the subject of the present
suit, viz., the Chestnut street and Sixth street properties.
' On the 29th of September, 1838, the subject of the insolvency of
Phillips and Moss was brought before the Court of Common Pleas,
which passed an order permitting the petitioners to sign the assignments annexed to their petitions, and directed the date of said assignments to be filled up, as of that day; and that the time-from which
said assignments should take effect should thereafter be determined
by the proper authority: and the cotirt refused to alter the appointment of assignees, made at the time the petitioners were sworn and
discharged, to wit, in the term of December, 1837. -The trustees
gave bonds on the same day.
From September, 1838, to April 24th, 1839, there were five writs
of venditioni exponas issued on the judgments which the Farmers'
Bank of Virginia had against R. and I. Phillips, all of which writs
and the proceedings under them were set aside for irregularity. On
the 24th of April, a pluries venditioni exponas was issued. But before the sale was made, viz., on the 30th of Aprili 1839, the assignees
of R. and I. Phillips sold at public sale, at the Philadelphia Ex-

" JANUARY TERM, 1844.
Hanson et al. v. Eustace's Lessee

659
.

change, the Chestnut street and Sixth street properties to William R.
Hanson, one of the defendants in the suit below, and one of the
present plaintiffs in error, at the following prices, viz., the Chestnut
street property for $16,000, and the Sixth street propertyfor $20,500.
Both properties were advertised as clear of all encumbrances, title
indisputable. At the sale the following notice was read.
" Bidders will please take notice that the property on the north
side of Cheitnut street, 42 feet west of Schuylkill Seventh street,
being 66 feet front, by 158 feet deep; and also that on the west side
of Delaware Sixth street, between Markqt and Chestnut streets, formerly known as Rubicam hotel, have been levied upon as the property of the late firm of R. and I. Phillips, and are actually advertised by the sheriff; and that the right of the assignees of R. and 1.
Phillips to convey any title to either of said properties is disputed
and denied.
C. FALLow."
On the 10th of May, 1839, the assignees executed deeds to Hanson for the, Chestnut street and Sixth street properties.
On the 20th of May, 1839, the sheriff under the last writ of venditioni exponas, issued in the case of theFarmers' Bank of Virginia
against R. and I. Phillips, set up and exposed to public sale several
pieces of property, amongst which'were the Chestnut street and Sixth
street propertiesg, for which Christopher Fallon became the highest
I
bidder and purchaser.
On the "22dof June, 1839, the sheriff executed a' deed of the
above to Fallon, who, oa the 11th of September conveyed them to
Eustace, the plaintiff, in the suit below.
in October, 1839, Eustace brought an ejectment to recover pos.
session.
The 'cause came on for trial in October, 1840. The facts stated
above were established by proof, and evidence farther offered to show
that the property in Sixth street was recognised by the firm of R. and
I.. Phillips as partnership property; that an account wps opened
with it on the books, and the taxes paid by the firm. On the. part
of the defendant, evidence was offered to show that, at the time of
the death of Robert Phillips, there was another brother living-besides
Isaac, who was called Samuel, and also that two children-of a third
brother, named Lawrence, -were living; that 'the Walnut street pro.'
perty was not included in the assignment, because it was thought

660

SUPREME COURT.
Hanson et al. v. Eustace's Lessee.

that the encumbrances upon it were so heavy as to destroy its value
as property.
In an early stage of the trial, the counsel for ihe plaintiff gave
notice, to the defendant to produce the books and papers belonging
to the firm of R. and I. Phillips. After the testimony was closed,
the court called on the plaintiff's counsel to proceed to address the
jury, at which time a large number of books were brought into
court, said to be the books of R. and I. Phillips, and the inspection
of them was offered to the plaintiff's counsel; but the court said it
was too late, and they would not permit time to be taken up in that
stage of the case.
The court having delivered a charge to the jury, a verdict was
found by the latter for the plaintiff; but the following exceptions
were taken to the charge:
"Mr. Joseph L. Moss and Isaac Phillips, the defendants in the
judgment, have been divested of all their interest, either by their
voluntary assignment in June, 1837, and the proceedings under the
insolvent act in October following, or the sheriff's sale in May, 1839.
They can set up no title adverse to the plaintiff, and though ,the
assignment in June may be perfectly valid, they have no right to
retain possession, unless, perhaps, with the assent of the assignees,
under. their title, as distinct from theirs. Mr. Joseph M. Moss and
David Samuel have no legal estate in the property; their deed to
M. Hanson divested their interest in May, 1839; they have, therefore, in themselves, no right to retain possession; though, if they are
in possession, they may defend, under the assignment, and the title
of M. Hanson, as a purchaser from them, unless such privity exists
between them' and the defendants in the judgment, as prevents them
from setting up an outstanding title-a question, which is not very
important in this case, and might rather tend to make it more complicated than is niecessary, by discussion."
"And thereupon the said defendants further excepted to the following matters or propositions of law contained in the 'said charge- to
the jury, to wit:
"It.is farther objected to the plaintiff's right, that havingecepted
a judgment, subject to the discharge of the defendants under the
insolvent law, h took it, subject to all its incidents and effects,
whereby he can come upon the property of the debtors only as a

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

661

Hanson et al. v. Eustace's Lessee.

general creditor, on an equal footing with all others, through the
intervention 6f the trustees, or in their name. This is, however, not
the true construction of the arreenient; it means that by confessing
judgment, the defendant waived no rights or exemptions, which
accrued to him by the discharge; it left him free to claim freedom
from arrest on any process on the judgment, or any other right
secured by the law; but it left the plaintiff at liberty to pursue any
property which had belonged to the defendants, by a proceeding
adversary to a purchaser under him, or any assenting creditor. If,
notwithstanding any previous assignment, either voluntary or under
the jnsolvent law, there was any property to which his judgment
could attach, there was nothing in the assignment or its legal effects
which prevents the plaintiff from pursuing it by legal proce~s, till by
its consummation by a sheriff's sale and aeed acknowledged, he put
himself in a position to assert his pretensions in a court of law, or
which could, in any manner, compel him to come in under either
assignment, or lose his debt.
"cAs a judgment creditor, hq might contest with the assignees
under the voluntary assiinment, the validity of their title, or that
of any person claiming under them, or the right- of the trust6es
under the insolvent assignment; and if he could defeat the right
thus claimed, the property was open to his claim, if he could
establish it. In endeaiouring to do so by this suit, we think he is
-not acting inconsistently withthe, terms on which the judgment was
confessed; the defendants disclaim all interest in the property from
the time of their first assignment, and are, therefore, not competent to
.question the plaintiff's right to try title with others. On a contrary
constiuctibn, he would be compelled to acquiesce in the exclusion
from the benefits under the assignment, by not having released in
time; or if it was inoperativej to come in only as a general creditor
for his rateable proportion of the available effects of the insolvents.
We think this obj.ectioi" is not sustained."
And thereupon the said defendants further excepted to the following matters or propositions of law contained in the said charge to the
jury, to wit:
"It is next objected, that the plaintiff is precluded from contesting
the validity of the assignment of June, 1837, by having filed a bill
in equity, admitting its effect, and claiming under it, on the same
principle which binds a creditor who takes his dividend under. it.
3K

662

SUPREME COURT.
'Hanson et al. v. Eustace's Lessee.

That principle is undoubtedly a sound one, but we cannot perceive
its application to this case.
11 The bill states the fact of an assignment-its acceptance by the
assignees-their action under it, with the consequences of such action
on the equitable rights of the plaintiff; .without affirming or denying
the legal efficacy of the assignment, he elleges that the assignees have
made, or are about to make a disposition of certain specified notes,
in violation of an agreement between the plaintiff and the assignees,
prejudicial to his interest and rights. He asks the court to interfere,
.for the purpose of protecting him from the effects of the assignment,
to prevent the assignees from diverting the notes or their proceeds
from the purposes agreed upon by the assignors before the assign.
ment; he avers this agreement to be binding on the assignees, who
are not authorized, on principles of equity to apply this fund to the
purposes of the assignment. It is consequently a disaffirmance of the
terms and conditions prescribed by the assignors--a claim to the
whole of the notes and proceeds, for his own sole benefit, in opposition to the claims of every other creditor. The whole bill is founded
on the equitable obligation and duly of the assignees to apply this
portion of the assigned effects, contrary to the express terms of the
assignment, on the ground that for the causes alleged, the law of
equity controls its effect, and must regulate their distribution of the
funds. On these principles the equitable claim -of the plaintiff t6
this portion of the personal property assigned, is as adverse to the
assignment as his legal claim to the real estate in controversy. The
difference between the two claims is this; in the bill in equity the
plaintiff avers the delivery of the notes to the assignees--that they
were payable to, and endorsed by Robert and Isaac Phillips-that
having then come to their hands, his remedy to recover possession
of the unpaid notes, or the-proceeds of those ,Which are paid, is in
equity., Whether his remedy is at law or in equity, is for the court,
bgfore whom the bill is pending, to decide; the object of a suit in
either court would be the same; the question in both must be-in
whom is the right to the notes or their proceeds-as it is in this case,
in whom is the right of possession to the real estate? In"the one
case the validity of the assignment in passing the right to these notes
to the creditors under the assianment, is as much contested by the
plaintiffas it is in the other ; the fact of an assignment is admitted in
both, but the plaintiff takes different modes of avoiding its effects.

JANUARY TERM, 184.

663

Hanson et aL v. Eustaces Lessee.

"Having accepted and acted in executioni of the trust, the assignees cannot deny the validity of the assignment; the -law places "
their action under the sdjervision of a court, to whom the plaintiff.
applies for the application of a specific fund to his exclusive benefit,
notwithstanding the contrary application by the assignees, under the
requisitions of the assignment.
11 Had the plaintiff resorted to a court of equity for a remedy as to
the land in'controversy, in virtue of his sheriffs deed, he must have
stated his case, as he has d6ne in his bill in equity in relation to the
notes, praying for a reconveyance of what was not sold, an account
for, and payment of wbat had been sold, on the ground that the property did not pass in equity by the Assignment, and that in the handsof the assignees, it remained subject to his paramount right as a
creditor attempted to.be -defrauded by it. Brodder ground might be
taken in the latter than in the former case; the plaintiff might rest
his claim to the notes, on the principles of equity implanted in his
case, without an allegation of fraud 'in fact, while he might put. his
claim to the land. on every ground of fact, law, and equity, which his
case covered ; but when his object is to paralyze the assignment,
bither as to the notes or land, he cannot be held to affirm or claim "
under it.
,1So long as he claims adversely to the terms and conditions upon
which the assignees must act pursuant to the assignment, he may,
according to the nature of 'his" case, apply to a court of equity, to
compel them to execute the trust, according to their legal and
equitable obligations- or apply to a court of law, on the ground that
the assignment passed no legal right to personal or real property. In
resorting to a court of equity in one case, and a court of law in the
other, the plaintiff is at liberty to choose his ground in affirming or
disaffirming the legal effect of the assignment in creating a trust.
'The assignees .are,precluded from a choice; they have fastened on
themselves a trust, either for the assenting or dissenting creditors,
which the appropriate court will carry into execution, according- to
its settled principles. As the trust may be a legal or. equitable one,
its execution is enforced at law or in equity; as to one portion of the
assigned property, the proper remedy may be at law, and as to the
other, in equity; yet the pursuit of one can be no bar to the other,.
unless the'grounds respectively assumed are wholly incompatible.
A creditor who asks for such an execution of a.trust as puts him in

604

SUPREME COURT.
Hanson et al. v. E.ustaces Lessee.

the same situation as if a.trust, never existed, and defeats the objects
intended to be efiected by the creation of the trust, by directing the
subject of the -trust from those -fdr whom it was designed to himself,
canpot be said tc claim a benefit from the trust, or to affirm what he
disaPirms. By pursuing this course, he gives up no right which he
could assert at law, by invalidating the Instrument creating ihe trust-his objects are the same; the results of a decree in equity, or a
judgment at -law, are the samie, when' his rights are established to the
sameiextent "as they existed, before the assignment, or as if it had
never been made. ' Should the plaintiff obtain a decree in his favour,
as to the notes and their procedds, he thus far annuls the assignment,
that it no longer impairs' Eis rights, and ia used by a court of equity
as the mere instfum-'nt for the purposes of justice, and a conduit to
the equitable jurisdiction'whichit exercises over the trustee. Should
he obtain a judgment at law, an execution gives him all .the fruits
of a' decree in equity-the different modes of proceeding being but
the varied means of elfcting' the same object.' We are,'therefore,
of opinidn, that the 'filing and pending-of the plaintiff's bill in equity
does not, in law, impair his rights to proceed by ejectment to recover
the -property now in dispute, any more than bringing and prosecuting
the'piesent action'would preyent him from -prosecuting his bill in
equity. This objection must consequently fail."
And thereupon the-siid-defendants further excepted to the following matters or propositions of law contained in the said charge to the
jury, to wit:
"Another objection to our entering on an investigation of this case
is founded on the decisions 'of the Supieme Court of this state, in the
case of Fassit v. Phillips, which it is said established the validity of
this assignment, and is obligatory 'on this court, on the principles
which it has adopted and acted on uniformly. We'cannot so view
it. That was a bill in equity, praying for. an injunction against any
proceedings under the assignment, on account of ifs invalidity for the
causes set forth in the bill, being acts of alleged fraud on the part of
Joseph L. Moss, one of the assignors; an injunction was granted,
but on the coming in of the answer, there appPared a positive denial
of fraud, and of every fact on thich the ecuity of the plaintiff
depended. A motion to dissolve the injunction was made and heard
on the bill and answer alone; the court dissolved the injunction, the
only effect of which was, that assuming the answer to be true, us the

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

665

Hanson et ai. v. Eustace's Lessee.

court were bound to do in the then state of the case, all action upon
it was suspended till evidence was taken, and the cause came to a
final hearing, when it will be competent for the plaintiff to disprove'
the answer, arid support the allegations of his bill. In the mean
time, the merits bf the cause remain as open as before; the injunction was granted on the primafacie case stafed in the bill and exhibits, but as the whole equity of the plaintiff was denied, the prima
fade case was rebutted, whereby the parties now.stand as if the court
had not acted on the bill; an interlocutory order, in granting an injunction, or taking it off, has no effect on the rights of either party at
the hearing. The facts set up or denied in the answer, can neither
be considered as established or negatived; for the purposes of the
motion to dissolve the injunction, -the answer was taken as true; it
has performed its office, leaving its future effect dependent, in the
opinion of the court, 'on the effect of -opposing evidence on the part
of the plaintiff Had the decisions of the court been made on a'
hearing of the cause on the pleadings, exhibits, and eidence, it would
have been entitled to great weight in our mind, and yo.urs, on the
facti before them, and perhaps conclusive on' matters of law; certainly so, if their decree had been founded on any state law, statute
or common, which was local, and not in conffict with the laws of the
Union."
And thereupon the said defendants further excepted tq the following matters or propositions of law contained in the said charge to the
jury, to wit:
-"Ithas also been contended, that whatever may be the effect of the
assignment of June, 1837,' on the rights of the parties, or if it is
wholly void, the estate of the assignors passed to the trustees ap-.
pointed by the court, on the discharge of Moss and Phillips, under
the insolvent law of 1836, by the force of the law and the discharge,
from the time of the filing the petitions for the benefit of the act,
so that there was no interest i- the defendant on which the, judgment
under which the plaintiff claims could attach. If this position is
well taken, it takes aw'ay all right in either the plaintiff, the assignees,
or Mr. Hanson to the property in controversy; for if it is still vested
in the trustees for the benefit of all the creditors of the insolvent,
without any assignment made by them, then as the trustees have
made no conveyance, the plaintiff's judgment was no lien on their
rights; and if the assignment of June, 1837, is void, Mr. Hanson
has no right.
3x2
VOL. M.-84

666

SUPREME COURT.
Hanson et a]. v. Eustace's Lessee.

cAs this position is founded on the words of the thirty-fourth section of the insolvent act, it becomes necessary to examine its various
provisions; in order to ascertain the intention of the legislature in this
particular.
"By the first section, the courts of common pleas have power to
grant relief -to insolvent debtors, Fon application made in the manner
hereinafter provided.' Purdon, 508.
"Sect. 2. 'The jurisdiction of the said court must be exercised
as follows, and not otherwise,' viz.: ' by sect. 9, the petitioner must
present a statement of his estate, effects, and property, debts due by
him, &c. ;' by sect. 12, he must exhibit a true account of his debts,
credits, and estates, and shall satisfy the court that he has neither
concealed or conveyed, for his own use, or for any of his family or
friends, or whereby to expect any future benefit to him or them, any
part of his estate, effects, or credits.
"Sect. 13 directs, that if he shall be entitled to relief he shall
take an oath that he will deliver up, and transfer to his trustees, for
the use of his creditors, all his property, debts, rights, and claims,
&c.; that he has not given,. ld, or intrusted any part of his property,
rights, or claims, to any person, whereby to, defraud his creditors, or
any of them, or to receive or expect any profit, benefit or advantage
thereby.
" Sect. 14. ' The petitioner shall thereupon execute an assignment
of ll his estate, property, and effects whatever,' to such trustees as
may be nominated by his creditors, or appointed by the court.
"Sect. 15, When such assignment shall have been executed, the
court shall make an order of discharge; and then follows the thirtyfourth section, enacting that, cThe-trustees appointed as aforesaid,
shall be deemed to be invested with all the estate and property of
the .insolvent, at the time of filing :his petition, subject to existing
liens, and the trustees shall take possession of such property and
estate, and may sue therefor in their own names, as well as for debts
and things in action, .to which there are these provisoes: 1st. That
no purchase or assignment of real estate.in the county, made bona
f&d for a valuable consideration, before the assignment, to any person
not having actual riotice ot the petition, shall be impeached thereby.
2. Nor if situated out of the county, if so sold or assigned before
the recording of the assignment in the other county. 3. Nor a sale
of personal. property to any person, not having actual notice of the
petition or assignment. 4. Nor if any person pays a debt, or delivers

JANUARY

TERM, 1844.

667

Hanson et al. v. Bustace's Lessee.

property to the insolvent, without actual notice, shall he he liable to
pay or. deliver the same to the trustees.
ccSect. 36. ' If any insolvent shall, prior to such assignment, have
conveyed any part of his property to his-wife and childreh, or either,
or to any one in trust for them, or have conveyed to any other person
with intent to defraud, creditors, the trustees shall have power to
recover and dispose of the same, -s fully as if the insolvent had been
seised or possessed thereof at the time of the assignment. . ...
"cFrom this summary -view of the law, it is evidenf that the legislature intended that an assignment should be made before a discharge;
the sections subsequent to the fourteenth 're predicatea on the supposition that it had been made, and their most important provisions
will become a dead letter, if.zione is made, especially the thirty-sixth.
By referring to the preceding act of 1814, it appears that no assignment was requisite; but as the act of 1836"is an entirely new system,
superseding the old, its requisitions cannot be overlooked.
ccThe fourteenth section is peremptory, that an assignment -shall
be executed; and the fifteenth, in terms, makes the discharge dependent on its having been done; the making the estate vest before the
assignment, or without one, is restoring the law of 1814, by entirely
annulling the provision5 of the fourteenth and fifteen sections of the
new act, and making it impossible to carry the thirty-sixth section
into effect by any other construction- than substituting -petition for
assignment. We are aware of no rule or principle -of law which
justifies stich bonstructioii by the force of the thirty-fourtl section;
it must be taken in connection with the other parts of the.law; so as
to make the system consistent in all its parts, unless its words exclude
all construction and reference, which in our opinion they do-not; on
the contrary, they c6ntain a reference which makes the-m in perfect
harmony with what precedes and follows. Thus, in the fifteenth
section, cthe trustees appointed as aforesaid,' necessarily refers to
the fourteenth section, by which they became trustees in virtue of
the assignment; they are the persons to whom the court direct it to
be made 3 its execution is the prerequisite to a discharge by the very
words of the fifteenth section, and is the only mode in which the
petitioner can comply with the oath prescribed in the thirteenth section.
" Had -the law used the term assigns, instead of trustees, there
could have been no doubt they are the persons to whom the debtor
swore he would deliver and transfer all his property, debts, rights, and
claims, in the thirteenth section, to whom he was bound to execute

668

SUPREME COURT.
Hanson et al. v. Eustace's Lessee.

an assignment by the fourteenth, on which alone the court could discharge by the fifteenth, or give such effect to their order niade after the
assignment, as aeclared in the sixteenth section. They are assignees
to all intents and purposes; as such they became trustees; but
however named, thqir character, powers, rights, and duties are the
same, and were complete without the thirty-fourth section, to vest in
them the estate of the petitioner at the time of the assignment; but
the legislature thought proper to make provision for transfers and
onyeyances of the estate and effects of the insolvent, between the
filing the 'petition and the execution'of the asiignment, which was
the object of the thirty-fouith section, and not to repeal any preceding
provision, or'to dispense with the assignment.
"Hence its true construction is, that the assignment, when made,
shall relate to the filing of the petition, so as to cut out all intermediate dispositions by the debtor, except in the cases provided for in
the tbirty-fifth section, which are exceptions to the thirty-fourth, by
way of a proviso, limiting its effect. Such construction gives effect
to the thirty-sixth section, according to its words, which it cannot
have, if there has -beenno assignment, while it is in harmony with
every preceding.provision, as well as in effectuating the intention of
the legislature in requiring the execution of an assignment before
discharge. We cannot think it the meaning of the law, that a debtor
should be discharged who has made no assignment; that there should
be trustees who were not assignees, or that the oath of the petitioner
need not be complied with, as to the act specially enjoined to be
done as the basis of all subsequent action by the court or trustees.
"There i s another important view which must be taken of this
-law. In conferring power on the Court of Common Pleas to grant
relief, the first section applies only to an application made in the
'manner thereafter directed ;' the second section directs that the jurisdiction of the courts 'may be'exercised as follows, and not otherwise;'
this section is, consequently, a limitation on jurisdiction, so far as it
applies. These words are broad enough to extend to all.the provisions of the-law; it.is certainly no strained construction to hQld, that
they apply to those acts which are positively directed to be done,
before any subsequent action can be had pursuant to the law; and
if such should be its ultimat construction, that.the requisites prescribed- are matters on which jurisdiction depends, the consequences
may be very serious and. alarming. We do not mean to saythat such
is the true inference to be drawn frdm the words of the law, or de-

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

669

Hanson et al. v. Eustacep Lessee.

sire to be the first to give them a judicial exposition; our duy is fo
await the course of the courts of the state, and to follow it, unless
the exigency of a.case requires us to take the lead,, We can decide
all questions which have arisen uader this law, without inquiring
into th~ejurisdiction of the Court of Common Pleas, on the cases of.
the parties in this case; we can, with perfect consistency, hold thatthe estate .of the insolvent does not pass to the trusteed, without'an
assignment, so as to cut out the lien of.a judgment rendered after the
discharge, but before an assignment executed; and at the sqme time'
hold the judgment, .or order of discharge, to be perfectly valid for
all the purposes declared by the law. So we take this law as applicable td this case; the 6mission to make the assignment. bef6re" the'
discharge does not impair its effect" inprotecting the debtor, but it
leaves the parties free to assert their respective rights-the plaintiff
as a creditor by originH right or.by assignment, and Mr. Hanson as a
purchaser, notwithstanding the provisions -ofthe thirty-fourth section.
Other considerations tend to the same conclusion. The words of the
thirty-fourth section are, call the estate and property of the insolvent,.
at the time of filing his petition,' which' cannot'apply to the property
in question, because the assignment made in June preceding divested
the assignors of tie whole estate and property, whether it was valid
or void, as against creditors. If it was valid, all the right of the
assignors passed to the assignees; if if was void as to the creditors,
it was good between the parties, and all others, excepi- the creditors
who were intended to be defrauded, or whom it might tend to defraud.
As to them and them alone, the assignors are held to be vested in trust,
without any other right, or for any other, purpose. than: making the
property subject to debts. So that in any event there was no interest
or right which the" assignor could pass to the trustees 'for all the
creditors, either by operation of law under thie thirty-fourth section,
or by an assignment under the fourteenth.
" The thirty-fourth section pro'vides only for the case'of an insolvent
having property at the time of his petition, which he had not before conveyed; it is wholly silent as to the case of his having conveyed or
assigned to his wife, children, or in trust for them, or to any other
person, with intent to defraud creditors; such case is provided forby.the
thirty-sixthsection, when theinsolvent has made-an dssignment to trustees previous tohis discharge. By making this distinct, substantive provision, the law clearly excludes such conveyance and transfer from theoperation of the thirty-fourth section; thereby mkldnga cleardistiaction

670

• SUPREME COURT.
Hanson et al. v. Eus'tace's Lessee.

between the property which had never been transferred before the
discharge, and .property had been so transferred contrary to law.
*Whether, then, we look to the provisions of the insolvent law in
connection, or the Words of the. 34th sectioi alone, we are fully
satisfied that an assignment by the insolvent at some time previousto the discharge, is necessary to vest his estate in the trustees, so as
to prevent'a subsequent.judgment from becoming a lien. This section,-then, does not affect the plaintiff's case, as contended by the
defendants; the judgment may attach, notwithstanding the dischargei
if we- assume, as we do at present, that no assignment was made before-the 29th September, 1838, after the plaintiff liad made a levy;
an assignment was then made, and *thisbrings up the construction of
.the 36th section, which provides that when a conveyance is made
prior to, such assignment to defraud creditors, the trustees shall have
power to recover the estate so conveyed. It follows, that if they do
recover it, it must be distributed among all the creditors in the same
inanner as if the insolvent had been seised or possessed of it, at the
time of such assignment. So construed, this section would take the
property in controversy from Mr. 11anson, as a purchaser under the
assignment of June, 1837, however fair his purchase may-have been;
it is very analogous to the enacting clause of the 13th Eliz., without
the aid of the 6th section of that statute; there is no proviso to except a .purchaser for valuable consideration without notice of the
fraud between the assignors and assignees. There is, indeed, no
declaration in terms, that the fraudulent conveyance shall be void,
but it is done in effect by declaring that the trustees may recover and
dispose of what has been so conveyed, ' as fully and effectually' as
if. the insolvent had actually been seised at the time of the assignment, which to all intents and purposes annuls the fraudulent conveyance, and takes the estate from the purchaser under it, as would
the 13th Eliz., but for the exception in the 6th section.
" Literally construed, it would also destroy'the lien of plaintiff's
judgment, and any right founded on it, other than this rateable proportion of the general effects of the insolvent; giving it this effect,
the 36th section would supersede the 13th Eliz., the common law on
which it is founded, and deprive the creditor, who was attempted to be
defrauded, of rights which have been unquestioned for two hundred
and seventy years. It has never been doubted, that a creditor who
takes ineasures for avoiding a fraudulent conveyance of real or personal property, by levying on and buying it under his judgment, or

JANUA:RY. TERM, "1844.

671

Hanson et zI.v. Rustace's Lessee.

a stranger who is suqh purchaser, shall hold aid .enjoy the property
for.his'own use-; and we cannot believe it was intended by the act
of 1836 to upro6t the whole system of jurisprudence which has grown
out of the 13th Eliz., or that it is the fair construction of the provisions of.the 36th section. _In our opinion, they apply to a case where
no creditor having previously acquired a lien or right to property
fraudulently conveyed, the trustees proceed to invalidate the. conveyance; and that it does not apply where the property is in the
hands"of a bona fide. purchaser for valuable consideration, without
notice of the fraud before the- assignment made by the- insolvent.
We will not be the first to to construe a state law, which will .produce the most mischievous efef'ts on a long settled system of jurisprudence.
"cWe have been asked to consider the assignment as having been
made before the discharge, but the insolvent record shows the contrary-it shows the form drawn up, unsigned, and without date, the
actual execution by the order of the court.on the 29th of September,
1838, as of that date, together with the refusal of the court to give
it a retrospective effect to the time of the discharge or petition. This
was the proper course to pursde, leaving it to-be thereafter decided
what was the legal effect of the proceeding, when it should be
brought in question.
"cThere are cases where a court may order that an act be donepredently, and to take effect as if done before, but the cases are few;
the power is a delicate one, which ought to be used -with extreme
caution, so as to do no injustice to third persons, or in any way prejudice their rights; when it is intended to be exercised, it should be
done in clear terms, and an entry thereof made of record-it is even
then viewed with much jealousy, and is never favoured-vide 2 Peters,
521, &c. In this case it may well be doubted whether the Court of
Common Pleas could give to an assignment actually made in S.eptember, 1838, the effect of taking away the lien of a judgment rendered in January preceding, and whifch-the judgment creditor had
followed up by a levy, while the assignment remained unexecuted;
that'court very properly refused to make -such order, and this court
will not consider that as having been done, which was not intended,
and ought not to have been done. 2 Peters, 522,.523."
And thereupon the said defendants further excepted to the following matters or propositions of law contained in the said charge, to the
jury, to wit:'

672

SUPREME

COURT.

Hanson et al. v. Eustice's Lessee.

" Having disposed of these objections, we now proceed to another,
which was much pressed -during the trial-that the plaintiff had not
shown a legal title to the property incontroversy, so as to enable him
to recover in this action. As this objection presents questions of
fact, as well as of law, we must refer to the evidence of title, which
has been exhibited by the plaintiff, as flirect proof of its being in
hiin in virtue of the sheriff's sale, together with the principles of law
by which the evidence must be applied.
.A legal title is the right to real estate, derived from the original
owner of the soil, and passed to the party claiming it by deed, will,
descent, or legal process operating as a deed by force of a law.
"An equitable title is-one acquired without a regular deed or formal conveyance of aiy description, which a court of law considers
as'a transfer of the estate of one to another; but a title so acquired,
as in equity, justice, and good conscience to vest the beneficial interest-the real and substantial ownership of the property-in the
person claiming it. In such a case, a.court of equity, whose appropriate and peculiar jurisdiction is to act upon the conscience of 'the
person who holds the. formal or legal title to the property, compels
him to convey it to the person'to whom he is bound in good conscience to make a complete title, thus uniting form to substance.
c As when B sells to A, for a price which is paid byA, who takes
possession and makes valuable improvements, but B holds the title,
and refuses or neglects to make a deed, A is the real owner inequity,
but B is the owner in law, and the contract of purchase is by the
most solemn articles of aireement under seal, with covenants to
make a deed on payment of the purchase-money. B may turn A out
of possession by ejectment in a court of law, because such courts
cannot recognise merely equitable titles. But a court of equity would
prevent B from following up his legal right, and order him to convey
it; such is the course and settled rule of this court, though in the
courts of this state, A might successfully-defend himself in an 6jectment. State c6urts act in the same case, and at the same time, as a
court both of law and equity, which we cannot do, as the courts of
the United States are, by the Constitution and laws, organized on
common law principles; and though we have full common law and
equity jurisdiction, we must exercise itin distinct capacities, as judges
or chancellors, as the nature of the case may require.
",There are, however, cases where a court of law will not inquire
whether the title of a plaintiff is legal or equitable; a tenant Will not

JANUARY

TERM,"1844.

673

Hanson et al. v. Eustace's 'Lessee.

be allowed to dispute the title of his landlord while he holds under
him; a defendant in a judgment cannot contest the title of one who
holds a sheriff's deed under a sale on the judgment,.nor any person
who holds possession under them, by privity arising after the judgment; in all such cases the plaintiff will recover possession, so that
this objection cannot be made by Mr. Joseph L. Moss or Isaac
Phillips.
"So where both parties claim under the same .title, -neither is
bound to trace theirs beyond the common source, or to show any
other right than what.-appears there; the court will not inquire
whether such title is legal or equitable. The right of possession depends on the question-in which party. the title is invested. Thus,
in the present case, both parties claim the right of possession to the
Chestnut street lot, under George Thompson's deed to Isaac Phillips.
It is, therefbre, not necessary for the plaintiff to show the naturof
the title of Thompson, or to trace it through the title-deeds to the first
owner; the only contest between the parties being-to whom the
rght conveyed to Phillips has passed-and neither can 6all on the
oier fbr the exhibition of any other title than that under whicA both
assert the right of possession. As to the house in Sixth street, the
case may be different,' if the assignees have any claim to it, by any
other than the title of J.: L. Moss and Isaac Phillips, or Mr. Hanson
is clothed with the.character he assumes, or claims by a title adverse
or independent. He. has assumed the position of a bona fide purchaser, for a valuable consideration, without such notice as the law
requires; if this position is well taken, Mr. Joseph M. Moss and
Daivid Samuel can have no interest in either piece of property, or. be
actors in the suit in opposition to the plaintiff. in any other than a
derivative right, .as before stated..
" Claiming under the assignment of June, 1837, under the Orphans'
Court sale, or under Mr. Hanson as a.purchaser from them, their possession, if they had any, on the service of the writ, must be rightful
or wrongful, as the case may be in evidence; it is, however, clear,
that in their own right, bFthe assignment, they cannot controvert the
title of Isaac Phillips and Joseph'L. Moss, or call on the plaihtiff'to
produce any other. Whether they do claim under the Orphans" Court
sale, how or what they do or can claim by it, will be considered
heieafter; any claim they can have under Mr. Hanson depends on
the nature of his title, and how he has a right to claim, and does
claim the property.
VOL. II.-85
3L

674

SUPREME COURT.
Hanson et al. v. Eustace's Lessee.

-If he is clothed with the character he assumes, that of a purchaser of the title of Robert Phillips, in virtue of the Orphans' Court
proceedings, the deed of Isaac Phillips to the assignees, and theirs to
him, by a right adverse to the title of the assignees, as conveyed by
the assignment, Mr. Hanson may rely on it in opposition to the equitable right of the assignors, as a distinct, independent right, passing
to him in virtue of the judicial proceedings, and not in virtue of the
assignment. But if he does not stand as the purchaser of an aderse
title, but claims under the assignment, through the deed of the assignees founded upon it, hd cannot contest the title of,the assignors,
even if he assumes another position as a purchaser, which is this: a
purchaser from the assignees, bona fide, for a valuable consideration,
without any notice of Lny fraud in the assignment. Conceding for
the present, that in this position he might hold the property, though
the assignment was fraudulent, he neither need, or could contest the
title under which he claimed; for such as it was, his purchase would
protect him from all the consequences of fraud between the assignors
and assignees, unless it was affected by the plaintiff's judgment and
proceedings upon it.
" The only position, therefore, in which Mr. Hanson can set up a
title adverse to that of J. L. Moss and Isaac Philips, or call on the
plaintiff for any other, is as a purchaser under the Orphans' Court
sale; considering him at present as so standing the present question
for -consideration is, whether the legal title of the Sixth street lot was
in the heirs of Robert Philips, or in Joseph L. Moss and Isaac Phillips, as the firm of R. and I. Phillips, at the time of the judgment in
January, 1838.
"cThe plaintiff may show a legal title, without producing a deed
from Robert Phillips to R. and I. Phillips; being a purchaser at sheriff's sale, he is not supposed to have the title-papers, or bound to
produce, or to account for them; it is sufficient if he can prove that
a deed once existed, or if he can prove such facts as will authorize a
jury to presume that one had been made, if notice was given to those
in.whose possession it is presumed to have been, to produce it at the
trial."
And thereupon the defendants further excepted to the following
matters or propositions of law contained in the said charge to the
jury, to wit:
"In an ordinary case, the jury must decide from the evidence
before them, what facts have been proved; but in this case there is

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

675

Hanson et al. v. Eustace's Lessee.

one feature which is rather unusual, and to which it is necessary to
call your special attention, as a matter which has an important bearing on some of its prominent points. Timely notice was given by the
plaintiff's counsel to the counsel of the assignors and assignees, to produce at the trial the books of R. and I. Phillips;' no objection was
made to the coi.petency of the notice-they were called for, but were
not produced till the day after the evidence was closed, and at-the
moment when the court had called on the plaintiff's counsel to
address the jury. No reason was assigned for their nori-production,
save the reference to the illness of-Mr. Moss; but Mr. -Phillipswas
in court; notice was given to Mr. Hanson, though none was necessary, as the books could not be presumed to be in his possession.
That they could have been produced before the evidence on both
sides was closed, can scarcely be doubted, when so many were produced afterwards. Their production, then, was no compliance with
the notice; the plaihtiff could not, without leave of the court, have
referred to them; he was not bound to ask it, and had a right to
proceed, as if they -had'not been produced.
"cMr. Hanson had a right to call for the books; claiming by an
adverse title, he. might have moved the court for an order to produce
them, but he made no effort to procure them; we say so, because
there was no evidenqe that he did in any way endeavour to have
them produced, although the court, in .their opinion on the motion
for a nonsuit, plainly intimated th'e effect of their non-production.
"cThere has, therefore, been no satisfactory oi reasonable groufid
assigned for their having been-kept back, and the plaiitiff has a fair
case for calling oil you to presume, whatever the law will authorize'
you to presume as.to the contents of the-books.. On thissubject thefifteenth section' of the Judiciary act has made this provision: . That
all the said courts of -the United States shall have power, in the trial
of actions, at law, onmotiont and due notice thereof being given, to
require' the parties to produce books oi writings in their possession
or power, which contain evidence pertinent to the issue, in cases,
*and under circumstances where they might be compelled to produce
the same by the ordinary rules of proceeding in chancery; and if a
plaintiff shall fail to comply with such -order-to produce books or
writings, it shall be.lawful for the courts, respectively, on motion, to
give.the like judgment. for the defendant, as in cases of nonsuit;
and if a defendant shall fail to comply with such order to produce
books or writings, it shall be lawful for the courts, respectively, -on

676

SUPREME COURT.
Hanson et al. v. Eustace's Lessee.

motion as aforesaid, to give judgment against him or her by default.'
This enables courts of law to apply the same rules and principles,
where papers or books are withheld, as have been adopted by courts
of eqvity, which are these, in our opinion, as long since expressed in
Askew- v. Odenheimer, 1 Baldwin's Rep. 388, 389."
And thereupon the said defendants further excepted to the following matters or propositions of law contained in the said charge to the
*jury, to wit:
" It must not, then, be supposed that the only effect of the suppression or keeping back books and papers, is to admit secondary
evidence of their contents, or that the jury are confined, in presuming
their contents, to what is proved to have been contained in them ; a
jury may presume as largely as a chancellor may do, when he acts
on his conscience, as a jury does, and ought to do, and on the same
principles.
"Mr. Bridges states that he believes there is an entry on the-books;
of the transfer from Herring to Robert and Isaac Phillips, but don't
know how the transfer was made. It is in proof, by the clerks of
Robert nd Isaac Phillips, that an account was open on their books
with the Sixth street lot; that the money of the firm was applied to
the payment of the consideration money to Herring; one of the persons who erected the new building says he was paid by the notes
and checks of the firm; a tenant proves that Joseph L. Moss rented
it in the name of the firm, who-furnished it to the amount of $1000,
and the tax collectors prove the payment of taxes by the firm. In
opposition to ihis evidence, the defendants offer, nothing; the books
of the firm are suppressed, -when they could and ought to have been
produiced; and the sole reliance in support of the title of Robert
Phillips, is the deed-from -Herring. If you believe the witnesses,'
Robert Philli s never was the sole and real owner of tis property on
the first purchase; and if you think the facts stated are true, you may
and ought to presnne, that if the books had been produced, they
would have shown that the payment of the whole purchase money,
and the whole expense of the improvements made 'on the lot, were
paid by the firm; that it formed an ifem of their joint estate, and was
so cons; dered by the partners. You may, als6, and ought to presume,
that the production of the books would have been favourable to'the
plaintiffs, and unfavourable to the defendants, in any other aspect as
bearing on the ownership of this property. On such evidence we
would, as a cburt of equity, hold that there was such a clear equitable

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

677

Hanson et al. v. Eus tace's Lessee.

title in the firm, that Robert Phillips, or his. heirs, were bound; on
every principle ofjustice, conscience, and equity, to make a conveyanxce, so as to make that title a legal one. And when it appears that
the members of the new firni had conveyed. it in trust for creditors, AS
their joint property, that the grantees had accepted the' conveyance,
and sold the property under the assignment; that the purchaser fromthem had accepted a deed reciting theirs, and no other title, we canrhot hesitate, as judges in a court of law, in instructing you that you
may presume that such- a conveyance from Robert Phillips, or his
heirs, has -been made, as they were bound in equity and good conscience to make.
( Legal presumptions do not depend on any defined state of things;
time is always-an important, and sometimes a necessary ingredient in
the chain of'circumstances-on which the presumption of a conveyance is made; it is more or less important, according to the weight
of the other circumstances in evidence in the case. Taking, then,
all in connection, and in the total absence of all proof'of any adverse
claim by Robert Phillips, or his heirs, from 1832, .every circumstance
is in favour of the presumption of a conveyance; and we can per,
ceive little, if any weight in the only circumstance set up to rebut it,
which is the proceedings in the. Orphans' Court. ,You will give
them what consequence you may think they may'deserve, when, you
look to the time and the circumstances under which they were commenced, carried on, and completed by a sale for $22,500, which
counsel admit was not paid, and also admit that the sole object was
to extinguish the mere spark of legal right remaining in Robert Phillips, or his- heirs, and not because 'he or they had any beneficial.
interest in the property. If there was lawful ground for presuming the
existence of a conveyance -fromhim, or them; before November, 1837,
we should, think that any thing accruing
rwards was entitled to no
weight in rebutting such presumption: and werd we in the jury box,
we would think it operated the other -way. It was for -the interest
of the assignees and assenting creditois to considir the conveyance
as not made; for if it had been made previously, a non-assenting
creditor to the assignment might take it under a judgment, as was
done by the plaintiff, and theteby hold it, if the assignment did not
pass the title; whereas, by taking. the deed as not made, the Orphans' Court sale would vest thetitle in the assignors, and leave no
legal right on which a judgment against Joseph L. Moss and'Isaac
Phillips could attach. As, however, -this is .a matter entirely for
3L

678

SUPREME COURT.
'Hanson et al, v. Eustace's Lessee.

your consideration, we leave it to your decision, with this principle
of law for your guide: that on a question whether a conveyance
shall be presumed or noty.the jury are to look less to the direct evidence of the fact than to.the reasons and policy of the law, in antihoizing them to infer that it was made if the party who was in
possession' of the legal title, Was bound in equity to convey to the
real, true, equitable owner. This legal presumption is not founded
on the belief alone that the facf existed, but much more on those
principles which'enforce justice and honesty between man and man,
and tend to the security of possessions'which have remained -uninterested and undisturbed. Should your opinion be in conformity with
ours on this point, you will presume that there was a deed from
Robert Phillips, or his heirs, competent to yest the title to the Sixth
sttet lot in the firm of Robert and Isaac Phillips-that it so remained
at the time of the assignment, and that it was by such conveyance
as 'would enable them to enjoy the property against Robert Phillips
and his heirs."
And thereupon the said defendants further eicepted to the following' matters or propositions oflaw contained in the said charge to the

jury, to wit:
" Should you 'think otherwise, you will find accordingly'; but
even then your finding would fiot affect the merits of the case, because Ir. Hanson, or those under him,'cannot make the objection
of-the want of a legal -title,kunless he stands firm in the position he
assumes-that of a bonafide purchaser for valuable consideration,
without notice, such-as the'law requires.
"cThere are two classes of purchasers of this description.
cc First. Those who are 1hus referred to, and the requisites to
clothe themselves with such character prescribed by the Supreme
Court of the United States, in Boom v. Chiles,' in 10 Peters, 210 to
212: r It is a general principle in courts of equity, that when both
parties claim by an equitable title, the one who is prior in time is
deemed the better in right; 7 Cranch,' 18; 18 T. R. 532-; 7 Wheat.
.46 ;. and that where the equities are%equal in point of merit, the law
prevails.' This leads to the reason for protecting an innocent purchaser, holding the legal title, against one who has the prior equity;
a court of equity gan act onlyon thi conscience'.of aparty; if he has
done nothing -that taints it, no demand can 'attach upon it, so as to
give anyjurisdiction. Sugden on-Vend. 722. Strong as a plaintiff's
equity may be, it can: in no case be stronger than that of a purchaser

JANUARY TERM, 1644.

679.

Hanson et a]. v. Eustace's Lessee.

who has put himself in. peril by--urchasing a title, and- payinj a
valuable consideration, without notice of any defect in it, or adverse
claim to it; and when-'n addition- he shows a legal title from one
seised and possessed of the property purchased, he has a right to dema'nd protection and relief, 9 Ves. -30-34, which a court of equity
imparts liberally.
'uch suitors are its-most especial fayourites. It
will not inquire how he may have obtaineda -statute, mortgage, encumnbrance or even a satisfied legal term, by'which he can defend
himself at law, if outstanding; equity will not aid his adversary in
taking from him the tabula in naufragio, if acquired before a decree.
c But this will not be done on mere averment or allegation.; 'the
protection of such bona fide purchase is fiecessary only when the
plaintiff has a prior equity, which can be barred or avoided only by
the union of the legal itle with'an equity,'arising from the payment
of the money, and receiving the conveyaice without nbtice, and a
clear conscience.
cc Second. Those who claim the character of purchasers under the
6th section of the 13th Eliz., the requisites of which are thus defined
by the law: 'That this act, or any thing therein contained, shall not
"xtend t6 1ny estate or interest in lands, tenements, hereditaments,
leases, rents, commons, profits, goods, or chattels, had, made, conveyed, or assumed, or hereafter to be had, made, conveyed, or assumed, which estate or interest is or shall be upon good consideration and bona fie lawfully conveyed or assuned to any person or
persons, or bodies politic 'or corporate, not having at the time of such
conveyance or' assurance to them Lade, any manner of notice or
knovledge of such covin, fraud, 6r collusion as is aforesaid; any
thing before mentioned to the contiary hereof notwithstanding.'
" Our first inquiry must be, whether Mr. Hanson comes witlhi the
first class ofsuh purchasers, by any evidence he has adduced.
,,He claims the Chestnut street lot under the title of Isaac Phillips,
by"the deedof the assignees, as the estate of Isaac Phillips, without
any claim by any 6utstanding legal title. As to this property, then,
he does not come within the first 'lass; he relies exclusively on the
deed of Thompson t6 Isaac Phillips, the assignment, and the deed'
of the assignees. He claims the Sixth street lot under Robert
Phillips, and not Isaa.phillips, and adduces, as evidence thereof, the
following chain of title:
" The- deed from Herrifig; the 'Orphans' Court proceedings; 'the
sale under them; the deed from Isaac Phillips, the administrator, to

SUPREME COURT,
Hanson et al. v. Eustace's.Lessee.

Joseph M. Moss and David Samuel, on the 30th January, 1838, and
the deed of 10th May, 1839, (made by them pursuant to the public
sale to Mr. Hanson, on the 30th April, preceding,) recorded on the
23d May. :1839, and there rests his case as to the adverse title of the
Sixth street lot, as one distinct from the Chestnut street property. On
inspecting the deed.for the Sixth street lot, there is found no reference
t thletitle of Robert Philips, or the Orphans' Court sale; the whole
*recitalof the title is the assignment of June, 1837, and there is noother covenant in the deed than against the acts of the grantors, who
pxecute the deed as-assignees; and not as purchasers from Isaac
Pmps, of the title of A. Phillips, in virtue of the Orphans' Court
proceedings.
"cNo evidence. is offered of any agreement, or even intention to
sell, or purchase, any other than the title which passed by the assignment;r .so that 'there is no obligation, legal, equitable, or moral,
on the -assignees, to make any conveyance of the right of Robert
Phillips, unless Mr. Hanson can affect them with some fraud, or show
some accident or mistake under which he accepted Jhe conveyance.
The fori of this deed, is in substance the same as the deed for the
Chesnut'street lot; the recital of the assignment the same, and both
made'in the capacity of assignees. There -seems 'no one feature of
difference between the .two purchases, which can make one refer to
the title of Robert, and the other to Isaac Phllips; and if you believe
the evidence of Mr. Blackstone, there is one fact in evidence which
goes strongly to prove that he neither purchased,- or intended to purchase any other title than what his deed purported -to convey.
Mr.-B. says, that after the ejectment was served- on him, he had a
conversation with Mr. Hanson, and expressed some doubt about
paying the rent; to which Mr. Hanson replied that the property was
his, he had purchased it at auction, under the best legal advice. If
this-was so. and he had purchasedtheitle of Robert, and not Isaac
Phillips, or that of the firm, itis scatcely credible that he would not
have been advised to at least-take a deed with a reference to, and
recital of that title, and that- he would ilot have -done so; on the
contrary, he took'a deed in the fo.p it appears, and claimed exclusively under it. By iefetence to the auction sale, it appears that there
was no notice of the title of Robert Phillips,' but the title - under the
assignment was stated to be good, and the sale made under.4t. -In
the absence of-all explanatdryievidencer'the egal construction of the
deed-is, that it conveyed, and purported to. convey no other.than the

JANUARY

TERM, 1844.

681

Hanson et al. v. Eustace's Lessee.

title of the assignorspand that no, legal presumption can be made that
any other right passed, especially when it does not appear that Mr.
Hanson had, at any time before this trial, claimed under the Orphans'
Court sale, or ,the title of Robert Phillips. On this ground alone,
Mr.-Hanson has failed to bring himself within the principles established
by the Supreme Court, as necessary to constitute a purchaser of the
first class: and there are other circumstances in the case equally conclusive to exiclude him. - Vide 10 Peters, 211, 212.
"We are next to consider his character as a' purchaser at the
assignees' auction sale of the title, which is claimed to have passed
by the assignment.
" The evidence of his filling this character is his bid at the auction,
his acceptance as a purchaser, and the deed from the assignees, its
record, his liossession of the property, and claim of title by the purchaser; but no evidence is 9fferied of the actual payment of any
money, independently of the recital of the deed and the receipt at the
foot of it, which is for the whole consideration, -while tle counsel of
Mr. Hanson distinctly admit before you, that only one-third has been
paid. There is, therefore, no pretence set up jhat any'more was
actually paid, or that the recital of the deed, or the admission in the
receipt is correct; but we do not think proper'to put this part of the
case on the admission of counsel, as they might fairly contend that
the admission should be received as made, whereby the payment of
one-third would be taken as part of the -admission, or the whole be
disregarded. It is better and saferito take the case as the law considers it, independently of any admission, and according to wellestablished principles, as applicable to a purchase set up under the
circumstances in evidence, of an estate in -lands, conveyed 'upon
good consideration, bonafide lawfully conveyed, to a person not having at the time of such conveyance any manner of notice or knowledge of such covin, fraud, or collusion' as is recited in the law.
You will observe, that -by the preamble and enacting clause of the
English statute,. all conveyances, bonds, judgments, &c., made with
intent to hinder, -delay, or defrad creditors, are declared actually
void, although the person who accepts of them'is no participator in
the fraud; it is a sweeping, general denunciation of such acts as
"unlawful, having no effect as against the person designed to be
defrauded 2 but -good- between the parties and -all others; the consequence whereof is,'as we have heretofore held, that the fraudulent
.grantor remains the legal owner of the property, not because. his deed
VOL. ]1.--86

682

SUPREME COURT.
Hanson et al. v. Eustace's Lessee.

is not binding on him, or his heirs; but the law has put it out of his
power to divest himself of property, by a deed designed to defraud
creditors; he therefore holds the legal title in trust for his creditors,
and for the-purpose of applying it to the paymefit of his debts, is as
flly the legal .owner after the conveyance gs before, though as to all
Qthers- the estate is in the fraudulent grantee. 1 -Baldwin, 356.
cc Such is the effect of the enacting part of the statute, which would
not prdtect the fairest of purchasers for the want of any words limit-.
ing or qualifying its imperative terms, and precludes any construction
or exception,; but the sixth section operates as, an exception in the
case provided for, which is a conveyance, &c., designed by the
grantor to defraud creditors, but in which the .grantee has in no way
participated, or had any notice or knowledge of any fraud before the
confeyance-Magniac v. Thompson, 7 Peters,.389, &c. Mr. Hanson claims to be a, purchaser of this description from the assignors
under the assignment, and in virtue of the proviso in the law, claims
to be protected; although-the assignment wis~frauduefit between the
panies, the question now to be considered is, whether, if the assignment be void, he can be in a better situation than thp assignors ; in
deciding which, it must be assumed that- the assignment is void as
to creditors, unless Mr. Hanson can hold what the assignors cannot.
The true inquiry then is, not what was the character of the assignment, but his character-as a purchaser fromthe fraudulent grantee;
for if the assignment is valid, then the plaintiff's judgment was no
lien, and he can have no right. We must, therefore, see whether
Mr. Hanson fills the character of a purchaser under the sixth section
of the 13th Eliz., assuming the assignment to be fraudulent for the
purpose of this inquiry, and this only.
,cThefirst question is, what he is bound to prova; the general
answer is at hand, that claiming under an exception to the law, he
must bring himself within it, or he comes under the enacting clause;
and he must prove it .by 6ther evidence than what is repudiated in
the law by clear, comprehensive words, as not sufficient to take a
conveyance out of it; they are any pretence, colour,
ieIgned consideration, expressing of use, or any other matteror thing to the contrary notwithstanding.'
"No words can better or more clearly apply to the consideration,
or uses-expressed in a conveyance, or- other-recital,-averments, or
declarations, which are set forth as the reasons of m'aking it; .hence
it is incumbent on the party to do more than to produce the deed

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

.683

Hanson et al. v. Eustace's Lessee.

containing them; for if the mere statement of the parties imposes on
a creditor the necessity of proving their falsity, he might not be enabled
to do it, as the matters so recited are not within his knowledge. But
if they exist, they must be known to the parties, to the deed, and can
be easily proved; if the law was, otherwise,. it would be easy, as the
Supreme Court of the United.States say, 4 Wheat. 507, for the grantor
to make out such a case by his own recital, that cthere would no
longer exist any difficulty in evading, the rights of creditors.' The
Supreme Court of this state have also established it as a rule, that
whoever sets up a plea of purchase for valuable consideration, must
support it by other evidence than the conveyance, or the receipt -at
only .the acknowledgient of the grantor.
the foot of it,, which is.
We cannot better state the law on this-subject, than in the words of
that court,in Rogers v. Hall, 4 Watts, 362. - Though in the absence
of proof to the- contrary, the presumption is in favour of the fairness
of a transaction, yet flight and an absolute general assignment are in
themselves circumstances demonstrative of fraud; and .though not
conclusive, they undoubtedly impose on the assignee the iecessity
of.elucidation. He is the most cognisant of the transaction, and best
able to explain it; and why should the biisiness of explanation be
laid on the creditors- placed by him in the dark, though- entitled to
light? Tle question is on the existence.of a valuable consideration;
and it would be against a fundamental rule of evidence to burden
them with the necessity of producing negative proof. The policy
of handling these transactions with little attention to tenderness, is.
obvious and uncompromising. They are. ulcers of frequent occurrence in practice, which require to be thoroughly probed, and, if
necessary, laid open to the bone, and on him be the consequences
who withholds the means of doing so.
" ' But the defendant claims to hold discharged of the fraud, if such
there were, by having, as he alleges, purchased without notice of it.
A decision of the question of notice is uncalled for by the circumstances, and we give none. There was neither proof of valuable
consideration, nor the semblance of it;' and nbthing is clearer than
that a plea of purchase for value must be sustained by other evidence
than the conveyance. Even the receipt of the debtor is not proof
against his creditor claiming paramount to the debtor's grantee, inno conveyance at all against
asmuch as his fraudulent conveyance isthe interest jntended to be defrauded. 'His receipt or other acknowledgment of payment, therefore, is the act of a grantor, done subse-

SUPREME COURT.
Hanson et a]. v. Eustace's

Lessee.

to a title derived from him, which, consequently,
may not be
prejudiced by it. Now, the defendant produced nothing but the conveyance, with whatever collateral evidences of payment may have
been imbodied in it, or appended to it; and they fell far short of
proof of actual payment; for, giving a security for the purchase-money,
which in practice is often the consideration for a receipt at the foot of
the conveyance, is not enough to entitle him to the character of a purchaser for valuable consideration, and the court properly rejected the
prayer for protection on that ground.' 4 Watts,. 362.
"A deed is evidence of a conveyance in fact, and when the payment of the consideration is proved, it primafacia evidence of a
purchase presumed to be fair till the contrary appears, unless there is
something on the face of it to excite suspicion.
" This rule is founded on the same sorund reasons as the rule that
an asserted purchaser must prove the payment of the consideration
recited; for a party who alleges fraud, ought to be prepared to prove
it, and it is as difficult for a party claiming under a deed, to prove
affirmatively his bonafldes, or want of notice, as for a party claiming
against it, to prove the non-payment of the money. Hence the law
has been long and well settled, that on the production of a deed of
conveyance, it shall be presumed to be as to fraud, &c., what it purports on its face to be, until some evidence is brought forward to impeach it in some particular which the law makes a requisite to its
validity. How faf the evidence goes to prove the fact, which will
invalidate the deed, is for a jury to decide, if the court shall be of
opinion that it conduces to prove it. Whatever would satisfy a jury
that the fact existed, if the law would authorize them to presume it
from the evidence, or if the court on a demurrer to the evidence
would render judgment for the party offering it, then the burden of
proof is shifted on to the party offering the deed, and he must bring
himself within the exception or proviso of the statute, in order to
make out a case under it. The creditor need not offer evidence to
disprove every requisite to make out a valid purchase; it suffices to
throw the proof of every requisite on the alleged purchaser, if the
creditor can satisfactorily establish the want of "one; in such case the
general principle applies, that a party who claims under a proviso or
exception to a law, must make out a case which brings himself within
*it, or he comes within the enacting clause, standing in no better position than the fraudulent grantor against the rights of the creditors
attempted to be defrauded. In cases of this description an important
Iquently

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

685

Hanson et al. v. Eustace's Lessee.

inquiry is-had the purchaser such notice as affects his purchase mnlavourably? Purchasing under the assignment, the law presumes he had
notice of it-its contents, whatever it referred to, and ' of such other
facts as those already known necessarily put him on inquiry for, and
as such inquiry, pursued with ordinary diligehce and prudence, would
bring to his knowledge. -But of other facts, extrinsic of the title, and
collateral to it, no constructive notice will be-presumed, but it must
be proved.' 2 Mason, 536. Besides, if there is dny thing on. the
face of the deed of assignment, to which the law imputes fraud, or
from which a jury can infer it, theipurchaser has, bflegal intendment,
constructive notice of it, so as to impair his purchase; so as to any mat-.
ter in the deed from. assignees to him, the same consequences follow.
" If a iurchaser has notice of a 'act, he is presumed to have notice,
of the consequences. 1 Gall: 42. It is in fill proof that the following notice7 was publicly read from the rostrurii at the sale by.the.
assignees on the 30th of April, when Mr. Hanson became, the purchaser , by a note in writing signed at the -time.
"ccBidders wil1 take notice;' that, the propefty on th6 north side of
Chestnut street, 42 feet west of Schuylkill Seventh street, bding 66
feet front by 158 feet deep, and also that on the west'side of Delaware
Sixth.street, between Market and Chestnut streets, f6rmerly known as
Rubicam Hotel, have been levied upon as the property of the. late
firm of R. and I. Phillips, and-are-actually Adiertised for sale by the
sherifl and that the right of'he assignees~of R..aidl. Phillipsto convey
any title to -either of said properties, is disputed and denied.
'April 29, 1839.
.CnmsTOPnm FALLO'.
"The Chestnut street lot was advertised, and sold as ' clear of all
encumbrance,' ' tite' indisputable '--the house and 16t on Sixth street
as ' clear of all encumbranc ;' yet,' if you believe the~witnesses, here
was'actual notice that the title of the assignees v.'as disputed-that
there was an order for the sale bf the properiy under a levy, and that
it was ten advertised for sale 'by the 'sheriff. It was,, therefr;e,
notice of an encumbrance by.some ht of record which would author-'
ize the sale-it 'referred to the advertisement which pointed to The
nature of the encumbrance, and was in law sufficient to put'Mr. Hanson on inquiry at least. And if he bad pqrsued it with due diligence
and prudence, he must have found the judgment and other proceedings of record-as they appear on the transcript read, which, connectid with the notice, would -show an adverse claim, and by a
creditor of the assignors rosecuted with great diligence by the plain-

3M

686

SUPREME COURT.
Hanson et al. v. Eustace's

Lessee.

tiffs, contested by the assignors and assignees, and then approaching
a consummation by effective process.
"It is said, that this notice was not such-as the law requires, to taint
Mr. Hanson's purchase, because it did not specify the particular
grounds on which the right of the assignors to convey was contested,
by stating, that the assignment was void by reason 6f fraud; and
therefore, the law holds that he is deemed to have had I no manner
of notice or knowledge of the frafid, covin, or collusion,' between
the parties to the assignment, this, notice not being sufficient to put
him on inquiry. Yet if the law were so, it seems that this or some
other notice did put him on inquiry, if he consulted counsel and purchased under their advice.
"This objection has assumed a strange aspect by the remarks of
counsel, that if the written notice had 'contained an allegation of fraud
in the parties to the assignment; a suit or prosecution for a libel would
have been the consequence ; while it is contended, that the want of
such charge makes thenotice inoperative, as if the law compelled a
creditor-to commit a civil injury, or a public offence, in order to put
a person on inquiry about the title he .was about to purchase. On
the other hand, if Mr. Hanson' had' not examined the subject fully,
and satisfied himself that there was no fraud, how did it happen that
when the terms of the sale were to convey a ' title clear of all encum'brance, on any of the property, and an ' intlisputable title I to the
Chestnut street lot, with actual notice of an encumbrance and dispute
of the titl'--that be accepted of a deed with only a covenant against
encumbranbes by the grantors, or suffered by them, taking no security
against a judgment against the assignors. If he consulted counsel
on the kind of title he should take, the form of the deed, and the,
covenants to be inserted, and was advised to accept a deed without
any covenant against the"very encumbrane referred to in the notice,
and to pay his money, to the amount of $36,000, on the transfer of
the right of the assignees without hetter warranty, the client must
have stated a strange case to his counsel, if he was advised that he
filled the character of a bona fide purchaser for a ' valuable consideration, without any marner of notice or knowledge, &c.' Mr. Hanson was not bound to accept a conveyance without coveiants of
warranty to the extent of the terms of sale; he might repudiate the
purchase on any other terms than those stated in the notice of sale by
the auctioneer; and if, when he accepted such a deed as he- ow-pro-

JANUAR Y TERM, 1844.

687

Hahson et all v. Eustace's Lessee.

duces, he, shall be considered by you as filling the character he assumes, we think you must presume very largely and liberally in his
favour, if you think he has acted with reasonable diligence and due
prudence. Under all the circumstances of the case, our vieW of the
evidence is very different; you will, however, decide on the facts
for yourselves, bearing in mind, however, that thenotice was sufficient, in law, to put him on inquiry into the fraud set up, to set aside
the assignment. 3 Penna. 66; 67?.
"There are other circumstances in tins case-which may affect the
nature of Mr:- Hanson's .purchase, and his character as' a purchaser,
after the acceptance of the deed of the i04of.May, which are worthy of your consideration.' The sheriff sale took place on the 20th
of Mal, at which'Mr."Fall6, attended on behalf of the plaintiff, and
Mr. Ingraham for the assignees. Mr. Fallon states,-that Mr. Ingra*ham gave verbal nStice that the -property about being sold belonged
to the assignees, ad 'had -been,assigned to them before the judgment.
Mr. Ingraham states, that, on behalf of the assignees, he gave notice,
that the prbperty did not belong to the defendants in the judgment at
the time it was rendered, and referred' to the assignment; but neither
state, that, any notice was given, that the property slling had been
conveyed by the assignees to Mr. Hanson; that he was present, or
any one for him; it also appears, that the deed -to him was not 'pjUt
on record till the 23d of May, 1839. .Under such dircumstances,
Mr; Hanson rests his case as a purchaser on his .papee tite, without
producing a witness to, prove the .payment of any money, or the delivery of the deed in fact; he does not produce any evidence that :it
was recorded by him, or offer arty reason for the 'omission, but asks
you to presume from his paper title, that he has made out all the
requisites of a purchaser, such as is protected by the lau from the
effects of any fraud which may attach to the assignment. 'If he has
paid one-third of the.purchase-money, it cannot well be doubted that
he can prove it affiriiatively, and so of the delivery of the deed; and
its being put on record by him. But he adheres to his perilous position, and asks you to presume that he has done that, of'which he-has
offered no other proof than the acknowledgment of the assignees in
the deed, and their receipt at the foot; that the grantors delivere4 !he
deeO, without calling the witnesses to its execution, and that it:was
recorded by him as a purchaser.
"We will not.say that y6u cannot presume these things, and over-

688

SUPREME COURT.
Hanson et al. v. Eustace's Lessee.

look- those circumstances which would authorize you to make a con'trary presumption in the three particulars; but we feel bound to sa,
that in your places we would not so presume.
"Should your opinion coincide with ours on the evidence and
facts of the case, Mr. Hanson would not be considered to be the
purchaser who is protected by the law, as to any of the requisites
mentioned ; but the consequences are the same, if he fails in any one.
To be so, he must be, in your opinion, not only a purchaser without
any manner of notice or knowledge of any fraud in the assignment,
such as the law requires to -be given to him ; he must also be a purchaser for a valuable consideration, actually paid, and the property
must have been bona fide conveyed to him, pursuant to the purchase,
so that the.purchase must be.in all respects an absolute one, such as
it purports to be. 'If you 'are not satisfied that this is the character
of his purchase, and his as a purchaser, then he is in no better situation than the assignees; if you think otherwise, you may find a
verdict for the defendants; if so, we must request you to find it
s.ubject to the opinion.of the court ofi the point reserved, which is,
whether if he ii in fact a purchaser such as the sixth section of..:the
law defines, he can hold the property against the plaintiff, if the
assignment is fraudulent on its face. On that subject we do not think
it Proper now to express any opinion; it is a pure question of law,
which we havp not had time to examine fully during the trial, and
it will better the exigency of the case'to reserve it."
And thereupon, the said defendants fhrturer excepted to the following matters or propositions of law contained in the said charge,
to wit:
" e now coime to the inquiry, whether the assignment is valid.
or void.
"It is alleged to .be fraudulent in fact, and in law. Fraud, in
-fact, consists in the intention to prevent creditors front recovering
tIeir just debts, by any act which withdraws the property of a debtor
from their reach; both parties must concur in the illegal intention.
1 Bald. 356, 357; S. C. 7 Peters, 398, &c. But the least degree of
concert or collusion between the parties to an illegal transaction, makes
the act of one the act of all; 4 Watts, 361. Fraud in law consists
in-acts which, though not fraudulently intended, yet as their tendency
is to defraud creditors, if they vest the property of the debtor in his
grantee, they are void for legal fraud, which is' deemed tantamount

JANUARY TERM, 1844.
Hanson et -al. v. Eistaee's Lessee.

to actual fraud, fall 4.vidence of fraud,. and fraudulent in themselves,
the policy of the law making the acts illegal. 1 Bald. 356, 553.
The alleged acts of fraud are numerous, .covering a large space of
time, but all are offered in evidence as bearing on the assignment;
they-are competent evidence to impeach it, if the plaintiff has satisfied
you that they tend to show the intention of the parties at te time of
maidng it. With this object, you may take into consideration.whatever preceded or followed it, if the circumstances show a connected
chain of facts leading to, or following the assignment, and they
can be in any way brought in to explain its nature and. character.
But proof of fraud in any transaction wholly unconnected with this,
or-not tending in any way to affect its fairness in fact or law, ought
not-be regarded.
"Fraud must be brought home to this transaction, but as to acts
-which led to it, which were pre.paratory, and with reference to it, as
.well as those whic followed or grew'ouf of it, in order to effectuate
the intention of the parties, they. are as proper to be considered as
those .which took place at the time. The character of a deed, or
other act which affects creditors or purchasers, may be judged of by
the subsequent conduct of the parties, which throws back -light on
their conduct. 5 Peters, 280, &c. You will, therefore, carry these
principles into your consideration of the various"acts of alleged fraud,
which the plaintiff has set up to invalidate this assignment. The
evidence of fraud consists, 1st, in not assigning the Walnut street
house and lot, and, furniture. The house and lot was conveyed to
Joseph L. Moss, in 1834, for the consideration of $3000 paid,-and
a mortgage of $8000, which remained a lien on it; on the 20th
March, 1837, he conveyed it to David -Samuel, one of the assignees,
for $15,000, by deed recorded on the 21st; Samuel re-,conveyed to
'Moss on the 25th March, for the same consideration, by deed xecorded
on the 27th ; on the 24th. March, 1837, Joseph L. Moss gave a warrant of attorney to confess a judgment to John Moss for $24,600,
reciting, a bond for that amount which was -not produced at the trial,
on which judgment *as entered of the 27th March. On the 27th
.May, 1837, Joseph L.Moss made a bill of sale of his household
furniture -to John Moss. for $3900, in consideration of the money due
off'the-judgment of $24,600.; but no credit-was given for the amount
of the furniture on the execution which issued upon that judgment.
Notice wah given to produce the bond, and prove'the consideration
3M2
VOL. I.--87

690

SUPREME COURT.
Hanson et al. v. Eustace's Lessee.

for which it was given, but neither was done; Joseph L. Moss continued in possession of the house and furniture, and John Moss
paid one or more of the creditors of Joseph L. Moss and Isaac Phillips, who opposed their discharge under the insolvent act, but withdrew their opposition in consequence.
"In deciding on this transaction throughout, we must be understood as not intending, in any way, to intimate any opinion as to
its effects on any controversy existing, or which may arise between
Mr. John Moss and the plaintiff, or on any other creditor of R. and L
Phillips, or either; we look upon it solely with a reference to withholding the house, lot, and furniture from the assignment, as a
badge, evidence, or ground of inferring fraud in the assignment, in
the first place. Next, to ascertain whether Joseph L. Moss has
offered any evidence 'to rebut the proof or presumption of fraud
attending the transaction; for it is one thing, whether a debt is really
owing to John Ioss to the amount of the judgment, and a very different thing, whether Joseph L. Moss has given such evidence as
he was bound to do, in order to repel the imputation of fraud in
keeping this property back.
"IHb sets up the encumbrance upon it as a reason for not assigning
it, and if there is in the evidence any .hing proving or conducing to
prove fraud in so doing, any thing from which a jury may presume
fraud, he must rebut it, or the imputation may be fastened upon his
conduct.
"As to the furniture, there is evidence and a strong badge of fraud
in retaining possession, even if the" sale was made to a purchaser,
and the moneyproved to have been actually paid; the want of possession by the purchaser must be accounted, for-it is not enough to
set up family considerations; they will not suffice, unless a sheriff's
sale has intervened, or some other reasons given why possession did
not accompany the bill of sale. This has -not only not. een done,
•bilt no proof has been offered that any consideration has been paid,
except that the bill of sale recites the judgment as the consideration
which is set up by Joseph L. Moss as evidence that he owed the
amount for which it was rendered. We will not say whether, as
between John Moss and other persons, this judgment is evidence of
the debt or not, without other proof, but as between Joseph L. Moss,
and one'of his creditors, who alleges it to be fratidulent, it is only
his acknowledgment that he, owed the amount, which is no evidence

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

691

Hanson et al. v, Bustace's Lessee.

between him and the plaintiff, under the circumstances in this case.
He has been called on to prove the consideration of this -judgment,
which he may be presumed to have been: able to do, and has' not
done it, but relies solely on the record of the judgment, and proceedings upon: it; as between the parties to this suit, this is not sufficient
to rebut the fraud of this transaction, if there was any, or if he sets
up Mr. John Moss as a purchaser of the furniture in part payment of
the judgrent, he must show it by something more than appears.
"As to- the house, there is much unaccounted for in the change
of apparent ownership in so short a space of time, especially when
Mr. Samuel is an lctor; he is an assignee in the assignments of
March'ind June, in 1837; fraud is imputed.to him, as well as the
assignorg; he and Joseph L. Moss can' explain 'these transfers, but
do not do it; they too rest exclusively on the -papers which are in
evidence, without calling a witness to explain what you will proba.bly agree in 'opinion with uis requires explanation. Their -deeds
purport to befor the consideration of $150,000 each, with receipts at
the foot for the pament in full, which must lbetketi as true, or false;
if true; why then was this passing of property and money from one
to another in five days, we are not. informed ; if false, the deeds are
entitled to no credit till explaihed
"As to the Arch street house and lots, it appears that the- lots
-were conveyed-to-Mrs. Phillips -in August, 1 884, for the consideration of $1200, and an annual- gTound-rent of $693, r-ecorded on the
23doof March, 1837, the day after the executi'on of the New York
assignment. In September, 1834, Isaac Phillips made a contract for
building a house on the Arch streef lots- which was finished in the.
summer of 1835, at. an expense exceeding $22000, exclusive of
furniture. In November, 1821, a.house and lot in Locust street was
conveyed to Sarah Moss, after~ards" Mrs.' Phillips, who with her
husband conveyed the same, on the 1st October,. 1834, -to Peter
McCall, for $10,000. "In April, 1837, Isaac Phillips conveyed his
life-estate in the Arch street house and lots to John Moss," for.
$7102 12, being .the value of, his life-estate therein, s estimated at
the annuity office, which -sum was recited and receipted 'for in the
deed as paid. In June following, Isaac Phillips made a bill of sale
of the furniture remaining in the Arch street house, in consideration
of $65507 paid, and possession statei at the foot of the bill of sale to.
have been delivered, to Which was attached a schedule of certain-

692

SUPREME COURT.
Hanson et al. v. Eustace's Lessee.

articles, valued at $860. This sale was to Joseph M. Moss, one of
the assignees.
"The assignment of June, 1837, did not embrace the house and
lots in Arch street, the furniture, .or any claim by Isaac phillips on
the property as the separate estate of his wife. or for any debt due
by her on account of the money expended in building the house.
Though the furniture was- not assigned, it was appraised as part of
the assigned effects, and entered on the inventory" thereof.
"In reference to these transactions, the same remarks are applicable as to the Walnut street property; reliance is had solely on the
papers produced, without any effort at explanation of what requires
it; no proof is offered of the payment of any money on the bill of
sale of the furniture, or of any delivery of 'posses~ion to the purchaser,
other than the stdtement at the foot. Nor is this any evidence that
any money was paid on the sale of the life-estate of Isaac Phillips in
the house and lots, except his own acknowledgment in the deed; or
any proof of what money was paid on the sale of the Locust street
lot, other than the recital and receipts of Phillips and wife; and there
was no attempt -to show the application of any part of it, to building,
or in furnishing the house.
"1These circumstances, and the withholding from record the deeds
to Mrs. Phillips till after the declared insolvency of the firm, and
their assignment of the New York effects, leave the exlenditure of
so large a sum on the -house, open to much ground for your consideration. It has been contended by defendants' counsel, that though
these transactions may be open to suspicion, y~t that they can effect
only the property in question, and that the apsignment is valid notwithstanding. This argument is good, so far as it respects the nondelivery of possession of the furniture; that may be considered as
rather evidence or a badge of legal, than of actual fraud, not affecting
the validity of the assignment, as a substantive cause for holding it
v6id.. But if you are of opinion that these transactions indicate an
intention in the parties, assignors and assignees, to make such a disposition of the property of the assigriors, as to place it beyond the
reach of creditors, by any other nieans than fair and bona fide sales,
transfers, and dispositions of it,.pr by encumbrances for debts justly
due, and you can trace such intention in the conduct of the parties
from March till June, and that the last assignment was the carrying
such intention into effect, then it is void throughout. We do not

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

693

Hanson et al. v. Eustace's Lessee.

say that keeping back property from an assignment is aone evidence
of fraud-our, opinion is founded on all the circumstances of the cas
which are in evidence, of which one of great weight in our minds is
the entire want of any attempt at.explanation of matters which throw
the burden of proof on the defendants. It is a bold requisition on a
jury to make presumptions of facts merely from papeis which contain only the declarations and recitals of theparty who makes them,
where direct proofs of the facts can be made if the parties desired to
make it. The law makes no such presumptions in favour of the
party who produces deeds, or papers, if it does not appear that he
offers the best evidence of the facts which it is in his power to produce; especially if he keep back better evidence which is presumed
or appears'to be at his command; and a jury ought to be very cautious in making such presumptions, which may tend more-to encourage than check the. suppression of truth.
"The plaintiff has referred to the records of the Court of Common
Pleas and the discharge of the assignees under the insolvent-act, as
evidence of fraud, which is reflected back on the assignment; you
will judge how far it is proved by extraneous evidence, taking what
appears on the record- and papers attached to it as fully proved and
operating according to its legal effect, But whatever may be your
opinion of the matters so proved, or apparent on the record, you will
refer them to the assignment; and though you may think there was
fraud in the insolvent proceedings, -you will not attach it to the assignment, unless you have reason to believe that it shows a fraudulent intention in some way connected with it, growing out of, it, or
tending to effectuate its object more completely.
"The composition with the opposing creditors was. an improper
act, and taints the conduct of the parties who made it with suspicion,
which may be thrown back on the assignment, if you think it was
connected with, or formed a part of the original design.
"Much has been said about the proceedings-in the Orphans'
Court, and were it necessary for the purposes of this case to decide
all the questions which have been raised in. relation to them, we
should have much difficulty in doing it; for there are terms and provisions introduced into the act of 1832, under which these proceedings were conducted, that are not to be found in preceding laws,
and. are of rather an unusual character as respects the jurisdiction of
that court, being similar to the provisions in the insolvent law of

694

SUPREME COURT.
Hanson et al. v. Eustace's Lessee.

1826, which we. have before noticed. If it was an act of Congress
we should have less difficulty, but being alaw of a state, affecting
many titles, we would give an opinion on its construction, only in
case of its.being necessary to decide the merits of this case, which"
we think it is not, as in our opinion it cannot avail the defendants in
this case, admitting the power of the court to be undoubted, to do
what it has done in relation to the Sixth street property.
" On inspecting the record of the Orphans' Court proceedings, it
'appears there, that in November, 1837, about a month after the discharge of Joseph 'L. Moss and Isaac Phillips, under the insolvent
act, Isaac Phillips, as administrator of the estate of Robert Phillips,
applied to the Orphans' Court. for authority to sell the Sixth street
lot and house, for the- purpose of paying a'debt due tohimself,
affiounting to more than $35,000, which, he stated in his petition,
was the only debt due by Robert Phillips at his death. A sale was
made in December, 1837; by the administrator, reported to and confirmed by the court; whereupon a deed was- executed to Joseph M.
Moss and David Samuel, the purchasers, for the consideration therein
expressed and receipted for as paid, of $22,500, dated 30th January,
1838; on the back of which -s a conveyance by them to Mr.
Hanson, dated 10th May, 1839, for -$20,300, for which a receipt
was given at the foot.
"1The record contains no evidence of the debt due -by Robert to
Isaac Phillips, except the statement of the latter in his petition, verifled by his own affidavit. thereto annexed; yet Mr. Bridges and Mr.
Welch, two of.the clerks- of the firm of R. and I, Phillips, state, that
in the books of the firm there was an account open with each partner.
The petition states the exact sum due on its date to be $35,000. A
schedule attached to the insolvent petition of Isaac Phillips, states in
detail the personal expenses of the members- of the firm for nineteen
years, in exact sums, which-could not well. be done-Without a referenrce to books or accounts; yet they are all suppressed, and the whole
proceedings of the Orphans' Court are based on the mere statement
and affidavit of Isaac Phillips, of the existence of so large a debt,
when there can be little, if any doubt, that if such a debt -was'due,
there was better evidencE in the party's power.
"cIn looking,.at the deed, we find it to express the payment of
$22,500 to I. Phillips, as the purchase-money; yet there is nowhere
found any assignment of this alleged debt by Isaac Phillips, nor any

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

695

-Hanson et al.,v. Eustace's Lessee.

notice of it in his schedule in the insolvent proceedings; it must be
observed, too,.that Robert Phillips left three surviving brothers, so
that Isaac Phillips was entitled only to one-third the purchase-money
beyond the debt justly due to himself. It appears, too, that J
h
i. Moss, one of the assignees, and Joseph L. Moss, were secun ies
in the administration bond, and John Moss and E. L. Moss w re
securities approved by the court, for the appropriation of the proceeds
of the sale according to law. It also appears, that, though Robert
Phillips died in December, 1833, no administration was taken out
on his estate till, in January, 1837, after a citation from the register's
office, in conformity with the law respecting collateral inheritances.
Now, if we. take this transaction as it purports to be on the face of
the Orphans' Court proceedings, it is this, and nothing else.
"In June, 1837, Isaac Phillips and Joseph L. Moss assign to J.. t.
Moss and David Samuel the Sixth street house and lot, on certain
trusts a§ their estate, owned by them, and the firm of R. and I. Phillips';
in December, 1837, the assignees purchase this property from Isaac
Phillips, as the estate of Robert Phillips, fcr $22,'500, take this amount
from the residue of thehssigned fund, pay it to Isaac Phillips'in January, 1838, and in May, 1839, convey it to Mr.' Hanson for $20,300,
making a dead loss to the fund assigned $2,200, besides interest.
"This is the transaction as it appears on the record and deeds; if
it was so in fact, how would it look when it appeared in the accounts
of the assignees as "trustees, whe v they were called on for a settlement? Would auditors, or the court, approve of such conduct?
"In our opinion, a grosser fraud could not well be imagined, and
in order to avoid its imputation, the parties who set up the Orphans'
Court proceedings, as giving a title to the assignees by the deed of.
Isaac Phillips, most distinctly admit its falsity, that no money was
paid, and that the whole proceeding was got up for the puiose of
extinguishing the mere legal right, which was sup~posed to be in
Robert Phillips, and not to affect any .ghits against the assignment.
"This saves us the necessity of further inquiry, whether these pro-'
ceedings are available to the defendants as a title distinct from, and
adverse to that of the firm of R. and I. Phillips; but these proceedings
furnish a salutary lesson to courts and juries, not to give much credence to deecis and papers, "when the parties to them keep back evi-dence of their true character, whereby light is-excluded which would
other*ise-explain their nature and object.

.696

SUPREME COURT.
Hanson et al. v. Eustac&'s Lessee.

"If these proceedings were concocted by Isaac Phillips and. the
assigndes, for the purpose of injuriously affecting the creditors of R.
and J. Phillips, who did not assent to the assignment, they are so far
void is the evidence' of participation iri the fraud by the assignees is
sulfficient onthe authority of the Supreme Court of this state, in 4 Watts,
361, to make the.act of one the act of a11. On their own admiskion,
it was not a real sale and purchase-no considiration was paid or stipulatedto te paid; it was not intended to pass any title adverse to that of
R. and I. Phillips, bit merely to unite what was supposed to be an
outstanding legal title, to the equitable right existing in tle members of
the firm. That such was the object, and no other, appears not only by
the admission of all the parties now, but is manifest from the conduct
of the assignees, in conveying to Mr. Hanson; for they neither recited
any title derived under the Orphans' Court sale, nor professed to convey any ; as bet~veen the parties, therefore, it was not a binding sale,
and if the object was merely what has .been declared, it must operate
according to the intention with which it was made, and the legal
effect of: what was done. Of consequence, it cannot impair the right
of 'the members of the firm; if the assignment is valid, the sale inures
fa the use of the assignees, as an extinction of any right in Robert
Phillips, unlds§ his heirs contest it; and if the assignment is void as
to the plaintiff, the Orphans' Court sale does not affect his right, but
inureb to his use, as standing in the place of the defendants in the
-judgment under which he purchased.
"Having thus disposed of the matters set up by the plaintiff, in
-support of the allegation of actual fraud in the assignment, which is
exclusively.a question foryour consideration,'we proceed to notice
the objections to its validity on the ground of legal fraud, which pre"sents questions of law for the decision of the court.*
"Of these objections, a very.prominent one is, that the requiring
a release from the creditors of the firm, as a condition precedent to
their coming in for any portion of the property assigned, is illegal,
and invalidates the assignment.. Ifthis were a new question, or was
how open to examination in this court, we should be strongly inclined
to hold the.assignment v6id, as contrary to the policy of the law; but
the Supreme Court of the United States have decided otherwise. In
Brasbear v. West, they hold, that when a.debtor.-asign~d all his property for the benefit of his creditors5 a stipulation for a release had
been settled by the courts of this state to be .alid, and that this set-

JANUARY

TERM, 1844.

697

Hanson et al. v. Eustace's Lessee.

tled construction of the law must be followed in the courts of. the
United States. 7 Peters, 615, 616. This decision is binding on you
and us, as the established law of the case; you will consequently disregard any opinion of ours to the contrary, and consider the law to
be settled in favour of the assignment on this point. Had the case
in the Supreme Court of this state, in which the question was supposed to have been decided, been as closely examined, and that
cause been araued as this has been, the, result might have been different; it is, however, now too.late to re-examine the question here;
elsewhere I may feel at liberty to think otherwise; yet it i-ay tend to
shake too many. titles held under such assignments, to interfere with
them in any other way than by prospective legislation.
"But though you will take the law to be thus settled, when the
assignment is of the whole of the debtor's property and effects, it is
otherwise if any portion is fraudulently ke~t back from the ass gnment I should such be your opinion in this case, then the assignment
would be void by the exaction of a release from the creditors, according to the opinion of the Supreme Court of this state, in 5 Rawle,
221, as well as the soundest principles of law. We, however, are
not desirous of giving you any imperative instructions on any of the
grounds of legal fraud on which this assignment is assailed, nor do
we think it necessary to state them in detail; they arise on the
face of the assignment,-they form a part of the plajptiff's case,
which cannot be excluded from it, and must b6 decided by the court
as questions of law, should your verdict on the evidence make it
necessary.
"This case is an interesting and important one, not only to the
parties concerned, as to the value of the property in dispute and
what may be consequently involved, but, on public considerations,
arising from the nature of the transactions in evidence, their character and tendency. We think it better tthat the base should. be decided on the questions of fact involved, reserving for future consideration any matters of law not yet stated to you, which your ve*rdict
may leave for our decision, should it be for the defendants. But
though every question of f~ct is for your consideration solely, we are
not desirous of throwing on you the whole responsibility, without
expressing our opinion on the result of the evidence, not as a direction to bind, but as opinion merely, which will have such weight,
and such only, as you may think proper to give it It is a painful
VoL.

1--.88

3N

698

SUPREME COURT.
Hanson q% al. v. Eustace's Lessee.

task to view the transadtions -which are in evidence, in order to
Sscertain whether they are fraudulent ; but it is'a duty not to falter,
and itww'ill have a better eflect, if there is a concurrence of opinion
between, the jury and the court on that question, than to. have it in
doubt as to either. A careful consideration of all the testimony in
the case has led our minds to the conclusion, that there are such circumstances a§ wi'1 fully -justify your finding the assignment to be
.invalid on the gounc of its being frauduent as to creditors in point
of fact."
And inasmuch as said' charges and instructions, sb excepted to,
.do not appear upon: the record, the counsel for the defendants did
then and there tender this bill of exceptions to the opinion of the
:said court, and. requested, the seals of the judges to be- put to the
same, according to the form of the statute in such case made and
prbvided; and thereupon the aforesaid judges, at the request of the
cownsel for the defendants, did. put their seals to this bill of exceptions, pursuant to the aforesaid statute in-such case made and proHFixmi BAimwn, [L. s.)
vided.
Jos. HopxrmsoN, IL. s.]

Itubbell and Sergeant,*for the plaintiffs in error.
-Guillrand Fallon, for the defendant in error.
Thirty-seven points were stated by the counsel for the plaintiffs in
'error, in which, itwaw alleged, the court bel6w erred. The argument
upon both sides branched out into numerous points of law which the
recdrd suggested. The reporter would -take pleasure in stating all
-these arguments, but for the excessive length of the bills of exception
and the circumstance that the decision bf -the court rests upon a single
point in the charge of the court below, viz., the effect of the refusal to
furmish books and'papers, in conformity with a notice. He only
mentions, therefore, such portions of the argiunent as bear upon that
part, of the chaige.
Four of'the points bf the plaintiff in error were thus stated by his
counsel' "
'11th. The'court below erred in charging the jury that they might
presume, that Robert Phillips, or his heirs,'bad made a conveyance,
vesting the legal tfile in -the firm of R. and I. Phillips, and that it so
remained at the time of the astignment, and that it was by such a
conveyance as would enable them to enjoy the property against Robert Phillips and his heirs.
-

JANUARY TERM, 1844.
Hanson et al. v.'Eustact's Lessee.

12th. The court below erred in charging the jury that this presumption is not founded on the belief alone that the fact existed, but
much more on those principles which enforce justice and honesty between man and man, and tend to the security'of possessions.'
13th. The court below erred ih charging the jury that the defend- ant below, Hanson, was under any.obligation to produce'the books
of Joseph L. Moss and Isaac Phillips, or of the firm of R. and I. Phillips, and that any presumption whatever could be-made to his disadvantage by the non-productidn of them. And *also, as against the
defendant below, Hanson, in admitting evidence of their contents.
14th. The court below erred in charging the jury that they had the
right to presume that the production of the books would have been
favourable to the plaintiff beloW, and unfavourable to the defetidan.s
below, in every respect, as bearing upon the ownership of the property.
Hubbell, said:
Another defence set up by the defendants below is, that the legal
title of part of the subject of this ejectment, viz., the Sikth street
house, was never vested in: the assignors, R. and I. Phillips, and that
therefore the plaintiff, below, claiming under them, cannot sustain'an
action of ejectment-for that proporty.
His honour, the judge, charged the jury, that a conveyance or tue
outstanding leg4l title to.the assignors-may be presumed by the jury.
There is no warrafit in law for the jury to presume a conveyance
of the legal title.There are three ingredients commonly concurring with such presumption.
1. Time.
2. Duty.
3. Acts inconsistent with me outstanding of the legal title.
There are four classes of cases in which such presumption has been
made.
1. Where, in. the deduction of title, the deeds before and after
the step sought to be presumed are produced, andpossession has gone
according to the limitations in the latter. -After thirty or forty years,
the chasm will be filled up by presumption.
2. Deeds proper to have effected a change oK alteration in a family
estate, when the family have treated it as so altered, will be presumed
after the lapse of many years. Matthews on Presumptive Evidence, 219.

700

SUPREME COURT.
Hanson et al. v. Eustace's Lessee.

3. *Where the legal title is vested in trustees for a. specific purpose and to convey at a specified time, and the property is delivered
into the hands of
cestui gue trust at the specified time, a conveyance will be presumed after the lapse of many years. Matthews, 220.
4. Even where there is no express trust to convey, a conveyance
has been presumed in two cases where the purpose of vesting the
title-in the trustees was temporary; the presumption was made in one
case after a hundred years, and'in the other after the lapse of seventy
years. But these cases are considered of questidnable authority.
Matthews, 225.
Where laxids are conveyed to trustees without'any expressed or
manifest object, requiring the separation of the legal and equitable
estates and the beneficial enjoyment continues from the first in the
same persons or their privies, and there i6 nothing in this enjoyment
inconsistent with the outstanding of the legal estate, no lapse of time
will establish the presumption of a conveyance by the trustee of the
legal estate to the cestui que trust. Matthews, 228.
If there had been, in the present case, a duty to convey, of which
there was no evidence, still the ingredient of time was wholly wanting. The conveyance to Robert Phillips was in 1832, and the sale
under the judgment in 1839-an interval of but seven years: a period far short of the statute of limitations, which seems to fiirnish,
except u~der'extraordinary circumstances, the minimum of time ne-the

cssary to such presumption. 13 Johns. 513; 7 Wheat. 59, 108;
170.
6 Wheat. 581; 2 Wend. i; 5-Taunt:
The court further charged thejury, that the'admiSsion of secondary
evidence to prove the contents of the books was not the only effect of
their suppression, but that they ought to presume that the production
of the-books would have been favourable to the plaintiffs and unfavourable'to the defendants in any other aspect as bearing on the
6oinership of the prope4t; that the court would, as a court of equity,
hold on stich evidence that there was such a lear equitable ti2e in
the firm, that Robert Phillips or his heirs were bound, on every principle of justice, conscience, and equity, to make a conveyance so as
to make that title a legal one; ind that 'the jury might presume as
largely as a chancellor might do.
Our' objections to t.i 5 charge may be subdiviaed into
1st. The error in charging that the plaintiff below had any right to
call for tLe production of these books, or that the effect of the notice

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

701

Hanson et al. v. Eustace'g, Lessee.
and non-compliance with it, was any thing more than to admit-him to
produce secondary evidence of their contents.
2d. The error in charging the jury.that Hanson was in anywiseto be.
affected by the non-production, or that he was under any obligation to
resort to the act of Congress to compel their production, or that he
or the plaintiffbelow could compel their production under the act of
Congress.
The act of Congress only compels a party to produce books or
papers which contain evidence pertinent to the issue, in cases and
under circumstances where he might be compelled to produce the
same by the drdinary rules of proceedings in chancery.
To the rules of chancery we must resort to.knbw under what circumstances chincery compels' the production of books and papers.
Sergeant's Constitutional Law, 158, 159.
The party requiring'the production of books and papers must sIow
right, property, or interest in them. 2 Coxe's Chancery Cases, 242;
1 Coxe's Chancery Cases, 277, 364; 4 Johns. Chan.Ca. 382. o
The party requiring the production of books and papers miust obtain
a rule on the opposite party to produce them, which must be supported
by affidavit, showing that they are in the possession -of the party required to produce them; that -they contain evidence pertinent to the
issue, and that all the circumstances exist which would induce a Court
of Chancery to direct their production. ' And the party required to
produce them may deny all this by counter-evidence on the trial.
4 Wash. C. C. Rep. 126; 3 Wash. C. C. Rep. 582; United States
v. Twenty packages of goods, 1 Gilpin, 306.
The party required to produce, is, upon every principle of chancery
practice, entitled to deny upon his own oath, the whole of th allegations upon which their production is sought, to explain anyentries
found in the books, &c. 2.Penn, Reji. 139; Hare on- Discover]*,
ch. 2, sect. 6, pp. 228, 238; 2 Chitty's Equity Digest, ,1129, where
the whole is reviewed.
The court must rely on the oath of the party required to produce,
as to the relevancy of the books; also, as to what parts are material.
Hare on Discovery, 230. He may seal up such parts as he declares
to be immaterial. Hare on Discovery., 230; 1 Swanson, 539
But we particularly comilain bf this error as affecting Mr. Hansoii,
who had not the custody of the bboks, against whom they would not
have been evidence if produced. He could not have made the.
affidavit required to enforce their production, and he could not have
3N2

702

SUPREME -COURT.
!
Hanson et'al. v; Eu.stace s Lessee.

enforced the penalty given by the act of Congress for their non,production, viz. judgment against the recusant party.

Giuil/ou, for the defendant in error.
In, vindication of the charge of the court, that the jury might presume a deed from R. Phillips to R. and I. Phillips, cite& 11 East, 56 ;
4 Durn. and East, 682; 1 Caines, 457; 3 Watts, 167 ; 10 Serg. &
Eawler389, 391; 7 .Wheat. 110; 2 Wendell, 13, 15; 12 Yes. 24,
251, note; 6 Bingh. 180; 5 Barn. & Ald. 233; 19 Johns. 345;
8 East, 263. And further to sustain the court in leaving it optional
with the jury, 9 Wheat. 486 ; 4 Dallas, 132; 1 Yeates, 32.
Fallon, on the same side, after directing his attention to other
points of the case, said;
We wanted the books to' show, amongst other things, that, the
Sixth street houe was pirchased with the partnership funds, in which
case it became partnership property. 1. Sumner,- 182; 2 Wash.
C. C. R. 441; -7 Serg. and Rawle, 438.

iergeant,in reply and conclusion.
Hanson never had the books, and yet is made reponsibIe for their
not being produced. The notice wag' to prodice the books of a
firm, carrying on a very extensive busineis, running through-six
years, and tax receipts for eight years. In the courts of the United
States a party can choose one of three'i-odes.
1. A common law notice.
2. A proceeding in equity for papers.
1 3- An affidavit and nile under the Judiciary act.
This was a common law notice exclusively. As such, it only gave
the party a ight to use secondary evidence by proving the contents
of papers. The law presumes that a party knows what he wants,
and allows him to call for it, but does not give him the power, under
a drag net notice like this, to bring up the books and papers of six
years accumulation: Can it be, that a party, without affidavit, without an order of court, without specification, shall be entitled.to have
a cart load of papers brought into court, many of them of a private
character, and open to the inspection of everybody? If this was
the rule, the act of Congress must have been passed to restrain it;
otherwisd it woud both be insufficient and intolerable.
The charge says, where papers are suppressed by a party, it is a
But
ground Qf suspicion. This is true in a chancery, liroceedingi.

JANUARY TERM,,1844.

703

Hanson et. al. v. Eustace's Lessee.

there is no spoliation of papers in this case, nor is the notice to be
brought under the chancery head; neither is it under the act of Congress. There is no affidavit, no order of court, no hearing of the'party.
It has been already argued, that before a presumption can be raised.,
circumstances and time must justify it. It is in favour of possession
and time. Supposing, here, that Robert Phillips bought the property
with the partnership funds, and thereby became a trustee for the -firm,
where is there any ground to presume an end of the .trust? The
presumption would be to the contrary, that he was to hold. it as long
as both parties agreed.
Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion 6rthe court.
The defendants in this case having failed to produce on the trial
of it certain books of original entry, day books, &c.) of the late-firm
of R. and I. Phillips, which had been called for by a regularnotice,
the court permitted the plaintiff to give secondary evidence of their
contents. The 'object of the plaintiff in introducing the secondary
evidence was to prove that the legal title to the Sixth street property
was in R. and I. Phillips, the defendants having previously introduced
a deed to that property froiii R. j. Herring and wife, dated the 9th
June, 1$32, to Robert Phillips.
The partners of the firm of R. and I Phillips were Robert Phillips
and Isaac Phillips. That .firm,howeveriwas dissolved by the death
of Robert Phillips in 1833. The survivor then took into partnership Joseph L. Moss, and the new firm traded under the'style of the
original firm of R. and I. Phillips.
The court, in refeience to the refusal of the defendants to produce
the books, and to the secondary evidence which had been given. of
their contents in respect to the Sixth street property, --charged. the
jury, that, cc In. an. ordinary, cases the jury must decide, from the evidence before them, what facts have been proved; but in this case
there is one feature which is rather unusual, anid to, which it is necessary to call your special attention, as a matter which hias an important
bearing on some of its prominent points. Timely notice was given by
the plaintiff's counsel to the counsel of the assignors and assignees, to
produce at the trial the books of R. and I. Phillips; no objection wag
made to the' competency of the notce; they were called for, but
were not produced till the day after the evidence was closed, and at
the moment when the court had called on the plaintiff's counsel to
address th6 jury. No reason was assigned for their non-production,

704

SUPREME COURT.
Hanson et al. v. Eustace's Lessee.

save the reference to the illness of Mr. Moss; but Mr, Phillips was
in court; notice was given to Mr. Hanson, though none was necessary-, as the bQoks could not be presumed to be in his possession.
That they could have been produced before the evidence on both
sides was closed, tan scarcely be doubted, when so many were produced afterwards. Their production, then, was no compliance with
the notice; the plaintiff could not, without leave of the court, have
referred to them; he was not bound to ask it, and had a right to proceed, as if they had not been produced.
",Mr. Hanson had a right to call for the books; claiming by an
adverse title, he might have moved the court for an order to produce
them, but he made no effort to procure them; we say so, because
there was no evidence that he did in any way endeavour to have
them produced, although the court, in their opinion on the motion
for a nonsuit, plainly intimated the effect of their non-production.
"cThere has, therefore, been no satisfactory or reasonable'ground
assigned for their having been kept back, and the plaintiff has a fair
case for calling on you to presume whatever the law will authorize
you to presume as to the contents of the books. On this subject the
fifteenth section of the Judiciary act has made this provision.: That
all the said courts of the United States shall have power, in the trial
of actions at law, and on motion and due notice thereof being given,
to require the parties to produce books or writings in their possession
or power, which contain evidence pertinent to the issue, in cases,
and under circumstances where they might be compelled to produce
the same by the ordinary rules of proceeding in chancery; and if a
plaintiff shall fail to comply with such order to produce books or
writings, it shall be lawful for the courts, respectively, on motion, to
give the like judgiaent for the defendant, as in cases of nonsuit;
and if. a defendant shall fail to comply with such order to produce
books or writings, it shall be lawful for the courts, respectively, on
motion as aforesaid, to give judgment against him or her by default.'
This enables courts. of law to apply the same rules andprinciples,
where papers or books are withheld, as have been adopted by courts
of equity, which are these, in our opinion, as long since expressed in
Askew v. Odenheimer, 1 BaldwinRep. 388, 389."
"It must not, then, be supposed that the only effect of the suppression or keeping back books and papers is to admit secondary
evidence of their contents, or that the jury are confined, in presuming
their contents, to what is proved to have been contained in them; a

JANUARY

TERM, 1844.

705

Hanson et al. v. Eustace's Lessee.

jury may presume as largely as a chancellor may do, when he acts
on his conscience, as a jury does, and ought to do, and on the-same
principles.
c Mr. Bridges states that he believes there is an entry on the books,
of the transfer from Herring to Robert and Isaac Phillips, but don't
know how the transfer was made. It is in proof, by the clerks of
Robert and Isaac Phillips, that an account was open on their. books.
with the Sixth street lot; that the money of the firm was applied to
the payment of the, consideration money to Herring; one of the persons who erected the new biilding says he was paid by the notes
and checks of the firm; a teuiant proves that Joseph L. -Moss rented
it in the name of the firm, Who furnished it to the amount of $1000,
and the tax-collectors prove.the payment of taxes by the firm. In
opposition to this evidence, the defendants offer nothing; the books
of the firm are suppressed, when they could and ought to have been
produced; and the sole reliance in support of the ttle of Robert
Phillips is thd deed from Herring. If you believe the witnesses,
Rbbert Phillips" never was the sole'and real owner of this property
on the first purchase; and if you think the facts stated are true, you
may and ought to presume, that if the books had been produced,
they would have shown that the payment of the whole purchasemoney, and the whole expense of the improvements made on the lot,
were paid by the firm; that it formed an item of their joint estate,
and was so considered by the partners'. You may, also, and ought
to presume, that the prodtiction.of the books would have beenfavourable to the plaifitiffs, and unfavourable to the' defendants, in any
other aspect as bearing 6n the ownership of this property. On such
evidence we would, as a court of equity, hold that there was'such a
clear equitable title in the firm, that Robert Phillips, or -his heirs,
were bound, on every principle of justice; conscience, and equity,
to make a conveyance so as to make that title a legat oh'e. - And
when it appears thit then'embers of the new firm had conveyed it
in trust for creditors, as their joint property, that the grahtees had
accepted the conveyance, and sold the property under the assignment; that the purchaser from them had accepted a deed reciting
theirs, and no other title-we canrnot he iat6, as judges in a court of
law, in instructing you that you may presume that such a conveyance from Robert Phillips, or his heirs, has been-made, -a they were
bound in equity and good conscience to make.
" Legal presumptions do not'depend on any defined state of thing;
VOL. 11.-89

706

SUPREME COURT.
Hanson et al. v. Eustace's Lessee.

time is always an important, and sometimes a necessary ingredient in
the chain of circumstances on which the presumption of a conveyance
is made; -it
is more or less important, according to the weight of the
other circumstances in evidence in the case. Taking, then, all in
connection, and in the total absence of all proof of any adverse claim
by Robert Phillips, or his heirs, from 1832, every circumstance is in
favour of the presumption of a conveyance; and we can perceive
little, if any weight in the only circumstance set up to rebut it, which
is the proceedings in the Orphans' Court. You will give them what
consequence you may think they may deserve, when you look to the
time and the circumstances under which they were commenced, cartied on, and completed by a sale for $22,6500, which counsel admit.
was not paid, and also admit that the sole object was to extinguish
the mere spark of legal right remaining in Robert Phillips or his
heirs, and not because he or they had any beneficial interest in the
property. If there was lawful ground for presuming the existence
of a conveyance from him, or them, before November, 1837, we
shiould think that any thing accruing afterwards was entitled to no
weight in rebutting such presumption: and were we in the jury box,
we would think it operated the other way. It was for the interest
of the assignees and assenting creditors to consider the conveyance
as not made; for if it had been made previously, a, non-assenting.
creditor to the assignment might take it under a judgment, as was
done by the plaintiff, and thereby hold it, if 'the assignment did not
pass the title;" whereas, by takingthe deed as not made, the Orphans'
Court sale would vest the title in the assignors, and. leave no legal
right on which a judgment against Joseph L. Moss and Isaac Phillips could attach. As, however, this is a matter entirely for your
consideration, we leave-it to your decision, with this principle of law
for your guide: that on a question ivhether a conveyanice shallhbe
presumed or, not, the jury are.to look less to the direct evidence of
the fact, than to the reasons and policy of the law, in authorizing
them to infer that it was made, if the party who was in possession of
the legal title was bound in equity to convey to the real, true, equitable- owner. This legal 'presumption is not founded on the belief
alone that the fact existed, but much more on those principles which
enfdrce justice and honesty between man and man, and tend to the
security of possessions Which have remained uninterested and undisturbed. Should your -opinion be in conformity with ours on this
point, ,you will presume that there was a deed from Robert Phillips

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

707

Hanson et al. v. Eustace's Lessee.

or his heirs, competent to vest the title. to the Sixth street lot in.the
firm of Robert and Isaac Phillips;, that it so remained at the time of
the assignment, and that it was by such conveyance as would enable
them to enjoy the property against Robert Phillips and his heirs."
It appears, then, that the court made the refusal of the defendafits
to produce the books, the secondary evidence of their contents, and
other evidence in the cause, the basis upon which it gave the foregoifig instructions to the jury. The defendants excepted-to them.
The iiquiries therefore .rising, are-had a case been made, which
authorized the.court, as a'matter of law, to give an opinion to the jury,
that the facts prbved would justify the presumption of a deed; and;
if not, were the instructions given in.terms which left the jury to
m'ake the inference from the evidence alone, unaffected -by considerations which it is not the province of a jury to indulge, that the
legal title to the Sixth- street property was in the late firm of R. and
I. Phillips?
This property may. b.e the partnership:estate of the original firm of.
R. and I. Phillips,. wifhout the legal title being in the copartnership
or in either of the partners. A deed was inevidence, that,the legal
title had been made to Robert Phillips. The plaintiff wished, to showi
that Robert Phillips hadconveyed it, before he died, to the firm, or
that there were circumstances in.
the case which raised the presumption that he had done so. No evidence was given to show that
Robert Phillips had made such a conveyance: On the contrary, as
the case sto6d, the proof was, that R. J.Herring and wife had conveyed the Sixth street property to Robert .Phillips, by deed dated-the
9th June, 183i.' The deed was in evidence. The plaintiff then
proceeded to-give qecondary evidence of the contents of the books,
which the defendants had refused to produce. That secondary evidence, as it is stated in the instruction, is, that " Mr. Bridges states that
he believes there is'an'entry on the books of the transfer fromHerring
to Robert and Isaac, Phillips, but don't know how that transfer was
made -It is in proof, by the clerks of Robert and Isaac Phillips, that
an account.was -open on- their books with the Sixth street lot; that
the money of the firm-was applied to the payment of the'consideration-muoney to Herring. One-bf the persons who erected the new
building says he was paid by the notes and checks of the firm;- a
tenant proves that Joseph L. Moss .rented it in the namne of the firm,
who furnished it to the amount of $1000 - and the tax-collectors
prove the payment of the taxes by the firm," Such is the proof, :and

708

SUPREME-COURT.
Hanson et al. v. Eustace's Lessee.

the only proof in the cause t6 show that the legal title to the Sixth
street property was in the late firm of R. and L Phillips. It may
justify the inferences in the court's instructions, that Robert Phillips
never was the sole and real owner of this property on the first purchase;, that, if the books had been produced, it would have been
shown that the consideration money for the lot was paid by the firm;
that all the improvements were paid for by the money of the firm;
that it formed a part of their joint'estate; that they so considered it,
and that Robert Phillips was bound in equity and good conscience to
make a 'title to the firm ; but the evidence is certainly deficient in
those particulars which, according to the established law, will permit the presumption of a deed by a jury, as a matter of direction from
the court. Before a court cant instruct a jury to presume a grant or
deed for land, time or length of possession must be shown, which,
of itself, in certain cases, and in other cases, in comiection with-circumstances, will induce the presumption of a grant as a matter of
law, or as a legal effect from-evidence, which the jury is instructed
t9 make, if in its consideration of the evidence the jury believe it t6
be true. Or when the presumption in fact as to a legal title is
founded upon the principle of omnia rite esse arta. Supposing, then,
that the court did not intend to instruct the jury, that the legal effect
of the evidence was to raise the presumption of a deed-we will now
inituire, what effect the refusal to produce books and papers under a
notice has upon the point which a party supposes they would prove.
The refusal to produce books, under a notice, lays the foundation for
the introduction of secondary evidence. It affords neither presumptive nor prima fade evidence of the fact sought to be proved by
them. A party cannot infer from the refusal to produce books which
have been called for, that if prodaced they would establish the fact
which 'he alleges they would prove. The party in such a case- may
give secondary evidence of the contents of such books or papers;
and if such secondary evidence is vague, imperfect, and uncertain as
to dates, tums, boundaries, &c., every intendment and presumption
as to such particulars shall be against the party who might remove
all doubt by producing the higher evidence. Life and Fire Insurance
Co. N. Y. v. Mech. Fire Insurance Co. .7 Wend. 33, 34.
All inferences shall be taken frPm the inferior evidence most strongly
against the party refusing to produce; but the refusal itself raises no
presumption of suspicion or imputation to the discredit of the party,
except irf
a case of spoliation or equivalent suppression. There the

JANUARY TERIM, 1844.
Hanson et al. v. Eustace's

709

Lessee.

rule is that omnia prasumanturcontra spoiatorem. In- other words,
with the exception just mentioned,.the refusal to produce books or
papers upon notice is not an independent element from which any
thing can be-inferred as to the point which is sought to be proved by
'the books or papers. Nor can any views of policy growing out.of
the refusal be associated with the secondaiy evidence to enlarge the
province of the jury, to infer or presume the existence of the-fact to
which that evidence relates. For considerations of policy, being the
source, origin, and support of artificial presumptions, having no application to conclusions as to actual matter of fact, the finding of a jury
in conformity with such considerations, and noi according to their
actual conviction of the truth, resolves itself into a-rule or piesunption of law.
Apply these principles to the instruction, and we find that the court,
under a notice at common law to produce books and papers, and the
refusal to produce them, without any other foundation having been
laid to permit secondary evidence to be given of the existence of .a
deed which had not-been specifically called for, and the destruction
or loss of which had not been alleged; permitted the plaintiff to give
secondary evidence that a deed had been-made, and upon his failure
to do so, instructed the jury that it "cmust not be supposed that the.
only effect of the suppression or keeping back books and papiers is to
admit'secondary evidence'of their conitents, or that the jurjr are confined, in presupaing their contents, to what. is proved- to have been
contained in them. A jury may pfesume as largely as a chancellor
may do, when he acts on his conscience as a jury, does and ought to
do, and on the sanie principles." And further, after reciting the
evidence which- -the court thought led t6, its conclusibr, the court
says, 4 upon such evidence we would, as a edurt of equity, hold that
there was such a clear equitable title in the firm, that Robert Phillips
or his heirs were bound on every principle of justice, conscience, and
equity to make a conveyance, so as to 'make the title a legal one."
To which the court adds, when it appears that the members of thenew firm.had conveyed-it'in trust for creditors, as their joint property,
that the grantees had-accepted the conveyance and sold the property
under the assignmentAthat the purchaser from them had accepted a
deed reciting'theirsiad no other title, we cannot hesitate as judges in.
a cpurtof law, in .instractirig you that You may presume- that such a
conveyance from Roberi PhiBips or his heirs has bepn made, as-they.
were bound in equity and -good conscience.-tp. mak6." ccLegal.pre30

710

SUPREME COURT.
H-anson et al. v. Eustace's Lessee.

-

sumptions do not depend on any defined state of things; time is
always an important, and Sometimes a necessary-ingredient in the
chain of circumstances on which the presumption of a conveyance is
made; it is more or less important according tb the weight of the
other circumstances in evidence in the case. -Taking, then, all in
connection, and in the total absence of all proof of any adverse claim
by Robert Phillips or his heirs, from 1832, every.circumstance is in
favour of the presumption of a conveyance." And the instruction
finally concludes with this direction: "cAs, however, this is a matter
entirely for your consideration, we leave it to your decision with this
principle of law-for your guide, that on a question whether a conveyance shall be presumed or not, the jury are to look less to -the direct
evidence of the fact than to the reasons and policy of the law, in
authorizing them to infer that it was made, if the party who was in
possession of the legal title was bound in equity to convey to the
real, true, and equitable owner. This, legal presumpton is not
founded on the belief, alone, that the fact existed, but much more on
those principles which enforce justice and honesty between man and
man, and tend to the security of possessions which have remained
undisturbed. Should your opinion be in conformity with ours on
this point,. you will presume that there was a deed from Robert
Phillips or his heirs, competent to vest the title to the Sixth street lot
in the firm 6f Robert and Isaac Phillips,. that it so remained at the
time of the assignment, and that it was by such -conveyance as would
enable them to enjoy the property against Robert Phillips and his
heirs."'
Supposing, then, .the terin legal presumption to have been used in
its -known professional sense, it is obvious that the coiirt did not
mean it to be one that. was absolute and conclusive, but one of law
and. fact. If the latter, we have already said shch a presump-.
tion did not arise under the evidence, and the conclusion must
be that the construction did not leave the jury to presume, from theevidence alone, that a conveyance had been made of the Sixth street
property by Robert Phillips, which vested the legal title to it in the
late firm of R. and I. Phillips. 'We ihink the exception taken to
these instructions must be'sustained, and direct the judgment to be
reversed.
Ii the consideration of this case, the court has not forgotten that
there were many other points in the cause .which were argued with
great learning and ability. The court, however, abstains from

JANUARY TERM; 1844.

711

Bank of the United States v. The United States.

noticing them and directs that its opinion should be exclusively confined to the instructions which have been considered.
ORDER.

This cause dame on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the eastern district of
Pennsylvania, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof,
It is now here 'ordered and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court in this cause be, and the same is hereby reversed, -with costs ; and that' this cause 'be, and the same is
hereby remanded to the said Circuit Court, with directions to award
a venirefaciasde novo.

THE BA K OF THE UNITED STATES, PLAINTIFF

IN 'ERROR,

v. THE

UNITED STATES.
By a treaty between the United States and France, the latter agreed to 'pay to

the former a certain sum of money, the first
instalment of which became due
on the second of February, 1833.
The secretary of the treasury, under a power conferred by Congress, drew a
bill of exchange upon the'Frehch governmeht, which'was purchased by the
Bank of the United States.
Not being paid, upon presentation, it was protested and immediat t!ytaken up
by banker in Paris, for the honour of the bank.
The bill is hot liable to objection as being drawn upon a particular fund.
The United States, is drawers, are responsible to the bank for fifteen per cent.
damages under a statute of Maryland, which allows that amount to the holder
of a f6reign protested bill.
When the bankers in Paris took it up and charged the amount of the bill to the
bank, intheir account with it, the bank became thereby remitted to its briginal
character as holder and payee.
Under the law-merchant, the drawer of a foreign bill of exchange is liable in
case of protest, for costs .and. other incidental charges, and also for reexchange, woether direct or circuitous. *The statute of Maryland, allowing
fifteen per cent., fixes this in lien of fe-ex6hange, to obviate'fhe difliculty of
proving the price of re-exchange.
'When the bank came into possession of the bill; upon its return, the endorse-'
ments were in'effect stricken out, and the bank became, in a commercial and
legal sense, the holder of the bill.

THis case was brought up by writ of error from the Circuit Court
of the' United States for the district of Poensylvarfii.

