238

SUPREME CO.URT.
Brockett et al. 'v. Brockett.

pute any fault to it. If it had been owned by a third person, there
would have been no reason for mulctinig the owner in costs; uhder
circumstances like.the present, where it was impracticable to separate the cargo from the vessel by any. "elivery thereof, unless in a
foreign por, and no peculiar cause of suspicion attached thereto. Its
belonging to the same owner iight justify its being brought in and
subjected to judicial extmination and inquiry, as a case where there
was probable cause for the seizure and detention. But there it stopped. The innocence of the owner has been fully established; the
vessel has been subjected to condemnation, and the fund is amply
sufficient to indemniiry the captors for all their costs and charges.
We see no reason why the innocent cargo, under such circumstances,
should be loaded with any dumulative burdens.
Upon the whole, -we are all of opinion that the decree of the Circuit Court ought to be, and it is affirmed, without costs.
ORDER.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the. record
frox? the Circuit Court of the United States for.the District of Maryland,
and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof, It is now
here ordered, adjudged, and decreed by this court, that the decree of the
said Circuit Court in this cause be, and the same is hereby affirmed,
without costs.

BocT'T ET AL. v. BRocxTT.
Where there are many parties in a case below, it is not necessary for them all
to join in the appeal bond. It is suflicient if they all appeal and the bond be
approved by the court.
No appeal lies from the refusal of the court below to open a former decree.
But if the court entertains a petition to open a lecree, the time limited for an
appeal does not begin to'run until the refusal to open it, the same term continuing.
Where an appeal is prayed'in open court, no citation is necessary.

THIs -was an appeal from the chancery side of the Circuit Court
of the United States for the District of Columbia.
-The case was not reached in regular order, but a motion was'
made, under the rule. to dismiss the appeal under the following state
of facts.

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

239

Brockett et al. v. Broekett.

A final decree was pronounced hi the court below on the 10th of
May, 1843, from which an appeal was prayed. A petition to re-open
,the decree was filed during the term, and referred to a waster, who
reported on the 9th of June-following. Upon his report the court refused to open its former decree, and from this. refusal, as-well as from
the original decree, an appeal was prayed, in which all the parties
joined. On the 15th of June, the bond was executed by three of
the parties, not being all.
Jones and Brent moved to dismiss the appeal on the following
grounds, and cited 8 Peters, 526.
. 'For irregularity, on account of the Tailure of the appelints, togive the proper.ppealhbond; the bond given having been executed
by only a part of the defendant$ in the court below, and for other
reasons in the record.
2. That notwithstanding said bond may be regular, the appeal
ought to be disniissed- as to that part taken from the refusal of the
court below, to open the final decree made upon the,10th of May,
1843; the said refusal having been made in the discretion of .the
court below and not "a final"decree ck order'? from which an appeal
can be taken.
3. That the parties are not' named in the writ of error.and citation.
Bradley and-Neale,opposed the motion.
Thermotion in this case is put upon' two grounds. As to the first,
the bond, it will be seen by reference to the record that a final-decree
was rendered on the 10th day.of May, 1843, from which an appeal
was prayed by all the parties.
During the same term a petition was filed by Robert Brockett to
have that final decree opened for certain purposes. • And the court
referred it to the-commissioner. The c6mmissio'ner made his repcrt,
and on the 9th day, of June, 1843, the same'term still continuing, the,
court refused to open the final decree; and from this refusal, as also
from the 'final decree of the 10th of May, an appeal was taken, and
the .court then directed the pe~ialty of the bond. All the parties
joined in this appeal also. The bond bears date the 15tliJune, 1843,
ind is executed by three of the parties in the decree, and by their
suretiei.
"Under this state of facts the appellants maintain, First, That -the
bond .was propierly given, and as the law requires.

240

SUPREME COURT.
Brockett 'et al. v. Brockett.

The law requires that all should join in the appeal, but does not
direct or require that they should all join in the bond. 'The whole
object of the law in that respect is security. That is a question for
the court below; if the security is sufficient, the bond is sufficient.
Second, The appeal was properly taken. The cause was not
finally disposed of till the adjournment of the term. All judgments
and decrees are under the control of the court during thdt period, and
may be opened or revised.
The petition for the opening of the decree was addressed to the
discretion of the court. The court entertained it. By this the effect
of the inal decree was 'suspended. Substantially the decree was not
final until the 9th June, 1843.
That appeal was taken, as has been said, to the former decree, 'and
it is clear the Circuit Court did not consider the former decree as
final, because they did not direct the amount of the penalty in the
bond.
Sthird point h4s been suggested as to the writ of error and the
citation, and the case in 8'Peters is relied 'on. The answer is, no
writ of error was necessary here, nor citation, because the appeal was
taken in -pen court. Tlle case does not apply.
The cases in 2 Peters and '7 Peters do not apply. The appeals
in these cases were taken by a part) only, of the parties. Besides,
Mandeville's was a parti rship case.
Mr. Jiisfice STORY delivered the opinion of the court.
Amotionhasbeen made to dismiss this appeal upon severalgrounds.
The first is, that although all the defendants have appealed from the
decree of the court below, yet a part of them, only, have signed the
appeal bond. This objection is not maintainable. It is not necessary that all the defendants should join in the appeal bond, although
all must join in the appeal. It is sufficient if the appeal bond is approved by the court, as satisfactory and complete seciity by whomsoever it'may be executed.
The next ground'is, that an appeal has been taken from the refusal
of the court below to open the former decree, rendered for the appellant. 'It is. plain that no appeal lies to this court in such a matter, as
it rests merely in the sound discretion of the court below. -Andif
this had been the sole appeal in the case; the appeal must have been
dismissed. But an appeal has also been taken to the first decree
(which was a final decree) rendered by the court. .That decree

JANUARY,TERM,

1844.

241

Droigoole et al. v. Farmers" and MKerchants' Bank.

was rendered on the 10th of May, 1843. During the same term; a
petition was filed by the defendants on the 26th day of the same month,
to have the.final decree opened for certain purposes;. and the court.
took cognisance of the petition and referred it to a master'commissioner. His report wasmade oni the 9th-of June following, the same
term still continuing; and the court then 'rerused to open the- final
decree; and fron this refusal as well as from, the final decree, the
defendants took an appeal, and gave bond with sufficient sureties,
on the 15th day of the same month, and the-appeal was then allowed
by the courf. Before that time the court had not fixed the penalty
of the bond.
Now7, the argtrment is, that as the original final decree was rendered more -than one month before the appeal, it could not operate under
the laws of the United States as a supersed.eas, or to stay execution
on the decree.; because to have, such an effect the appeal should be
made and. the bond should be given within ten. days after the final
decree. But the short and conclusive answer to this .objection is,'
that the final decree of -the 10th of May was suspended hy the subsequent action of the court; and it did not take effect until the 9th
of June, and that -the appeal was duly taken and the ppeal bond
given w.tbih ten days from this lastperiod.
Another and -the last ground of exception is to the want of proper
parties to the writ of error aid citation. No.writ of error lies inthis
case, but an appeal only; and the appeal having been made n open
court, no citation was necessary.
Upon the whole, we are of opinion thit the motion to dismiss the
appeal ought to be overruled, and it is accordinly overruled.

WiLLiAx

A.

A. DnoataOOLPn, FnEDERwcK G.

LAc6sTz, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR, V.

T

THE

uRBLL, AND CHARLES

FAnmREs' AND MER-

CHANTS' BANK or Mxssissn'r.
A statute of Mississippi allows suit to be brought against the maker and payee,
jointly, of a promissory n~te, by the endorsee;
But an -action of this kind cannot be maintained in the courts of the United
SItates, although the plaintiff resides in another state, provided the maker and
payee of the note both reside in Mississippi.
Tns case was brought up by writ of error from "the Circuit Court
of the United States for' the southern district of Mississippi.
VOL. II.-31
X"

