JANTUARY TERM, -1844.

357

Rhodes v. Bell.

case, or instituting,any proceedings in the court below; which laches
certainly ought not to produce any result in their favour.
The appeal is, therefore, dismissed, and the cause is remanded to
the'District Court of the noathem district of Alabama, with leave to
the appellants to make the proper parties, and to the new administrator, Benham, to become a party to the suit; and that such other
proceedings be had as to law and justice shall appertain.
ORDER.

This cause came on to be heard on the trans6ript of the record
from the District Court of the United States for the northern district.
of Alabama, and was argued by counsel. On consideratioti whereof,
It is ordered and decreed by this court, tat this appeal be,- and the
same is hereby dismissed, and that this- cause be, and the sam6 is
hereby remanded to the said District Court, -with leave to the appellants to make the proper parties, and to the new administrator, Beb-

ham, to become a party to the suit; and that such other proceedings
be had therein as to law and justice shall appertain.

J as RHODES, PLAInm FF IN ERROR, V. Moszs BELL.
The District of Columbia being still governed by the laws of Virginia and Marv
land, which were in force anteridr to the cession, it is not lawful for an inhabitant of Washington county to purchase a slave in Alexandria county, and
bring him into Washington county for sale. If he does, the slave will becomei
entitled to his freedom.

eTHis case was brought up by writ of error, from the Circuit Court
of the United' States for the District of Columbia. in and for the
county of Washington.
IIt was a petition for freedom filed-by Bell. The facts are set forth
in the special verdict, which is as follows:
.zWe of the jury find that previous to' the year 1837, the
petitioner was the slave of a certain Lawrence Hoff, a-resident of
Alexandria county, in the District of.Columbia; that in the yeaf
1837 the said Hoff, then owning and possessing the' petitioner as his
slave, in the county of Alexandria aforesaid, whereof he contittued to
be a resident, did sell and deliver the petitioner to one Little, then

2L

398

SUPREME C'OURT.
Rhodes v. Bell.

lbeing a residunt 'of Washington county, in the district aforesaid, and
that the delivery of the petitioner was made to the said Little in Alexandria county aforesaid, and the petitioner was immediately removed
by said Little to Washington county aforesaid, to reside, and also for
sale, whereof said Little was resident; that the said Little shortly
afterwards, to wit:I about one year or a little more, sold the petitioner to one Keeting, in Washington county, who sold and.delivered
himto the defendant; that since said sale to said Litle, the petitioner
has always been kept and held in slavery in the county of Washingion aforesaid; that at the time of the sale and delivery of the petitioner as aforesaid by Hoff to Little, the petitioner was more than
forty-five years of age, to wit: he was fifty-four or fifty-five years old,
ano is now fifty-nine or sixty years old. And if upon the facts aforesaid the law is -for the petitioner, then we find for the petitioner on the
issue joined; if upon the facts aforesaid the lkw is for the defendant,
then we find for the defendant' oh the iisuejoined." ' Whereupon all
and singular the premises being by the court here seen, heard, and
fully understood, and mature deliberation being thereupon had, the
court is of opinion, from the statement of facts aforesaid, that the law
ii fo the petitioner.
'The.writ of error was sued out for the purpose of reviewing this
opinion.
Brent and Brent, for the plaintiff in error.
Bradley and Hoban,'for the defendant.
The counsel for the,plaintiff in error made the following points:
1st. That the removal of said Moses Bell from the county of Alexandria to Washington coulity, both in the District of Columbia, and
under the same jurisdiction, as stated in the ,"special verdict,"
did not entitle him to freedom under any law in force in said district.
2d. That the said removal was not an importation of said Moses
Bell; according to the true intent and meaning of the laws in force in
the county of Washington aforesaid.
3d; That such removal, even if ,it had been illegal previous to
the year 1812, was legalized by act of' Congress on the 24th of June,
1812; and,
4th. That said Moses Bell, being over forty-five years of age at
the time of such removal, was incapable (by the laws in force in said
county of Washington) of receiing his freedom by or through 'any
act or acts of his master or owner.

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

399

Rhodes v. BelU.

Brent, sen., referred to the law of Maryland, 2 Maxcy's Laws, ch.
67, p. 361, which prohibited the importation of a slave into the state,
but argued that it did not apply to this case, because Alexandria and
Wasbihgton were only parts of the same sovereignty. He referred
also to the act of Congress, of June, 1812, Davis's Laws, 265, which
permits the people of the district to remove their slaves from one
county to another; and to 8 Peters, 44, 46, 48,49, 50, where the
.question came up incidentally.
in14 Peters, 142, 145; the court. decided that the counties of the
district do not stand to each other in the attitude of separate states..
Hoban, for appellee.
In matters of a local character, unless imperative necessity requiire
a contrary course, this court will always adopt and follow the decisions of the local tribunals. Since the act of 1812, in every instance
in which the question involved in this case has arisen, the Circuit
Court of the District of Columbia has invariably decided that, in order
to import a.slave from bne county into the other in this district, the
party'importing must reside in the county, and there own the slave,
from which the importation is made. See Maxcy's Cases, Dunbar v.
Bell, October, 1821; Foster v. Simmons, Nepo Williams, November, 1835.
The case in 14 Peters was upon the statute of limitations; it is
now cited to reverse our opinions.as to importation of slaves between
the two counties. That case asserts lio principle with which we are
not familiar; it affirms the judgment of the Circuit Court.. It merely
asserts that as to the limitation of suits, Alexandria and Washington
counties, as to each other, are not beyond.seas. As to all local law,
the counties have always been entirely distinct-the act of February
27,. 1801, DaVis, 123, declares that the lawg of Maryland, as then
existing, shall be the laws of .that part of the district taken from
Maryland, and the laws of Viiginia of thatpart taken from Virginia..
Even from Maryland to impor t into that-part of the district formerly belonging to Maryland, an act of Congress was necessary;
namely, of May, 1803. Davis, 135.
If it be true that by virtue of the unity of sovereignty,*the right of
free importation, from county to 6ounty, exists, then all the adjudication from the cession down is wrong, and the act of 1812 was
unecessary..
If the right of importation, as claimed on the..other side, exists, it

400

SUPREME COURT.
Rhodes v. Bell

operates a repeal of the settled policy of Virginia and Maryland, prohibiting the domestic slave-trade between them.
Maryland and Virginia both prohibit the introduction of slaves,
into their territory, except by persons coming to reside. The part of
the distiict formerly belonging to Maryland' is still considered as part
of it, as to the introduction of slaves from that state, and the part of
the district formerly belonging to Virginia is still considered as a
part of that state as to the introduction of. slaves from that state, by
the ct of May, 1803. If by the act of 1812, a person residing in
either county may import slaves into the other, by the act of 1803 he
may immediately remove them into the state adjoinmg, and thus all
the policy and the letter of the laws of Virginia aad Maryland prohibiting importation are immediately repealed.
Before the act.of 1812, a resident of one county could only introduce a slave into the other, bringing the slave with him when he
came to reside, and then could only sell him in three years. See the
act of 1796 of Maryland, Maxey's Laws, p. 361, c. 67.
By the act of 1812, a resident of either county can introduce bhis
slave into the other without coming to reside: provided he reside in
the county from which the importation is intended-and sell .him
When he pleases.
As to the prohibition of freedom on account of age, ii applies only
to cases of voluntary emancipation-where freedom is claimed under
the act of the" master-and not in a case of forfeiture, (like this,)
where the claim is adverse to that of the master.
Bradley, on the same side, commented oni the act of 1812, and
said that the permission therein granted was only to remove a slave
from one county to another, under certain restrictions; but it did
tot authorize fresh purchases to be made, and importations for
the purpose of sale. He referred, also, to the difference which
still existed between the two counties with regard to the issue of,
a female slave, as showing that the old law still -prevailed in each
county.

Brent, in reply and conclusion, said that the construction of the.
law, as.stated by Mr. Hoban, bad not been acquiesced in by the bar
or the people of the district. Many thought the decisions wrong in
the cases referred to by him; and, at .llevents, the opinion of the
court below wap not the law here. When a slave is brought from
Alexandria to Washington, he is not removed fr6m one sovereignty

JANUARV TERM, 1844.

401

Rhodes v. Bell.

to another; and so the court decided in the case of the Bank of
Potomac.
Before the act of 1803, negroes could be carried from Alexandria
to Washington for the purpose of being hired out. The act of Maryland of 1796 all6wed it.
Mr. Justice McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
A writ of error brings this case before us from the Circuit Court of
the tDistrict of Columbia.
Moses Bell, the defendant in error, filed a petition in the Circuit
Court representing that he was held in slavery by one James Rhodes,
of the said county, and 'rayed that his rights might be inquired into
by the court. The defendant pleaded that the said Moses was not
free, &c. The jury returned a special verdict, and found "cthat previous to the year 1837, the petitioner was the slave of a certain Lawrence Hoff, a resident of Alexandria county, in the District of
Columbia; that in 'the year 1837, the said Hof, then owning and
possessing the petitioner as his slave, in the county of, Alexandria
aforesaid, whereof he continued to be a resident, did sell and deliver
the petitioner to one Little, then being a resident of Washington
county, in the district aforesaid, and that the delivery of the petitioner
was made to the said Little in Alexandria county aforesaid, and the
petitioner was immediately removed by said Little to Washington
county'aforesaid, to reside and blso for sale, whereof said Little was
resident; that the said Little shortly afterwards, to wit, about one
year or a little more, sold the petitioner to one Keeting, in Washington
county, who sold and delivered him to the defendant; that since said sale
to said Little, the-petitioner has always been kept and held in slavery in
the county of Washington aforesaid; that at the time of the sale and
delivery of the petitioner as aforesaid by Hoff to Little, the petitioner
was more than forty-five years of age, to wit, fifty-four or five years."
Upon the above facts the Circuit Court held, that the petitioner.
was entitled to his liberty. To revise this judgment, the writ of error
has been prosecuted.
In the second -section of the. act of the 19th of December, 1791,
the state of Maryland declared, cthat all that part of the territory
called Columbia, which lies within the limits of this state, shall be,
and the same is hereby acknowledged to be for ever ceded and
relinquished -to the Congress and government of the United States,
in full and absolute right and exclusive jurisdiction, as well of soil
VOL. 1.-51
2 L2

402

SUPREME COURT.
Rhodes v. Bell.

as of persons residing, or to reside thereon pursuant to the tenor and
effect of the eighth section of the first article of the constitution of
government' of the United States--provided that the jurisdiction of
the laws of this state, over the persons and property of individuals
residing within the limits of the cession aforesaid, shall not cease or
determinle until Congress shall, by law, provide for the government
thereof, under their jurisdiction, in manner provided by the article in
the constitution before recited."
Previously to the above cession, in 1789, Virginia ceded to the
United States, cc ten miles square or any lesser quantity for the purposes aforesaid, as Congress might direct," *with the reservation
cc that the jurisdiction of the laws of Virginia over the persons and
property of individuals residing within the limits of the cession aforesaid, shall not cease or determine until Congress having accepted the
said cession, shall, by law, provide for the government thereof, under
their jurisdiction, in manner provided by the article of the Constitution before recited." This cession was accepted.
By the first section of the act of the 17th of February, 1801, Congress provided, ",that the laws of the state of Virginia, -as they now
exist, shall be and continue in force in that part of the District of
Columbia which was ceded by the said.state -to the United States,
and by them accepted," &c., cand that the laws of the state of
Maryland as they'now exist, shall be and continue in force in that
part of the said district which was ceded by it, &c.1
The part of
the district ceded by Virginia constitutes Alexandria county, and the
part ceded by Maryland, constitutes Wash inton county.
As the laws of Maryland and Virginia have been adopted by the
above act of Congress, within the counties respectively ceded, it will
be necessary to refer to those laws, so far'as they have, a bearing in
the present case.
By the Maryland statute, of November, 1796,2 Maxcy's Laws, 351,
it is declared, " that it shall not be lawful from and after the passing
of this act, .to import or bring into this state, by land or water, any
negro, mulatto, or other slave, for sale, or to reside within this state;
and any person brought into this state as a slave contrary to this act,
if a slave before, shall thereupon immediately cease to be -the property of the person or persons so importing or bringing such slave
within this state and shall be free."
The exceptions to the above provisions are,
1. Any citizen of the United States who removes to Maryland,

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

403

Rhodes v. BelL

with a bonafide intention of becoming a citizen, may bring his slaves
with him, or bring them within one year afterwards, provided such
slaves havebeen in the United States three years preceding the time
of their removal.
2. By the act of 1797, the above privilege is extended to the
executors of such persons, dying within one year after removal, &c.
3. Any citizen of Maryland who being seised and possessed of an
estate of inheritance in land in any one of-the adjoining states, who
employed slaves in the cultivation of said land, is at liberty to bring
such slaves into the state for his own benefit, but not for sale, provided such slaves had been in one of the adjoining states before the
21st of April, 1783.
4. Slaves acquired by descent, by a citizen of Maryland, may be
brought into the state to be employed by the owner, but not for sale.
5. Travellers or sojourners xiay bring their slaves into the state.
By a law of Yi'ginia passed the 17th of December, 1792, it is
declared, " that no person shall henceforth be slaves within this commonwealth, except such as were so on the 17th of October, 1785,
and the descendants of the females of them." And the second section declares that all " slaves which shall be brought into this commonwealth and kept therein one whole year together,, or so long at
different times as shall amount to one year, shall be free. The third
section imposes a penalty on any person who shall import slaves into
the commonwealth, and also upon any one who shall sell or purchase
such slaves. Exception is made of a person who, with a bona fide
intention of becoming a citizen of Virginia, removes into the state,
and exceptiong extend to some other specified cases.
By the seventh section of the act of Congress of the 3d of May,
1802, it is provided, that no part of the laws of Virginia or Maryland,
declared by an act of Congress, passed -the 27th of February, 1801,
concerning the District of Columbia, to be in force within the said
district, shall ever be construed so as to prohibit the owners of slaves
to hire them within, or remove them to the said district, in the same'
way as was practised prior to the passage of the above-recited act."
Again, by the -ninth section of the act of the 24th of June, 1812,
Congress provides "cthat it shall be lawful for any inhabitants in
either of the said counties (of the district) owning and possessing
any slave or slaves therein, to remove the same from one county into
the other, and to exercise freely and fully all the rights of property in
and over the said slave or slaves therein, which would be exercised

404

SUPREME COURT.
Rhodes v. Bell

over him, her, or them, in the county from whence the removal was
made, any thing in any legislative act in force at this time in either
of the said counties to the contrary.notwithstanding."
From the foregoing legislative action it will be seen, that the counties of Washington and Alexandria are governed by the laws of the
states to which the territories composing them were respectively
attached before the cession. This is especially true in regard4 to
the importation and sale of slaves. Neither the act of Congress of
1801, adopting the laws of the respective states, nor the act of 1802
above cited, made any modification of the Virginia or Maryland law
in regard to slaves. It was, undoubtedly, the policy of Congress,
until the passage, of the act of 1812, to preserve the same relation
between the counties of the district, on this subject, that existed
between the two-states.
A slave imported from Virginia to Maryland, not within one of the
exceptions named, was free, by the Maryland law. And it is n'ot
pretended that Bell can be brought within any one of tie exceptions.
The jury found that Little purchased Bell in Alexandria county, and.
brought him into Washington to reside and for. sale, the purchaser
being a resident of Washington county. Now independently of the
act of 1812, no one can doul't that this act of the purchaser entitled
the petitioner to his freedom. Indeed, he is entitled to it, under the
express provision of the Maryland l1w.
The act of 1812 was designed to 'enable the owner of slaves in
either of the two counties, within the dis'trict, to hire or employ them
in the other. And this is the full -purport of its provision on this
subject. It clearly does not authorize a citiken of'Washington to go
to the couinty of Alexandria, purchase a slave and bring him to
Washington county for any purpose, much less for the purpose of
sale, as found by the jury in this case. If this could be done, it would
subvert the whole policy of the Maryland law, which was to prevent,
except in specified cases, the importation of slaves into, the state.
And Congress, by adopting the Maryland law, sanctioned it
policy.
It is true that the two counties of this district are under the same
political organization, and, in a certain sense, constitute one sovereignty.' But this can have no effect \upon the question under consideration. It depends exclusively upon the laws referred to. No
views of policy or of supposed convenience can dnter into the decison.

JAN.UARY TERM, 1844.

405

Rhodes v. Bell.

The case of-the Bank of Alexandria v. Dyer, 14 Peters, 141, has
been relied on by the plaintiff in erlor, as showing that the. counties
of Washington and Alexandria, being united under the same government, cannot be considered as foreign to each other.
That was a case where the statute of limitation was pleaded to a
suit in Washington county. The plaintiffs replied that they were
citizens of Alexandria, &c., to which the defendant demurred. And
on this state of the pleading the question was, wh~ther the plaintiffs
were beyond seas, within the meaning of the Maryland statute. The
court held that they were not; " that the counties of Washington
and Alexandria resemble different counties in 'the same state; and
do not stand towards one another in the relations of distinct and
separate governments."
The words cbeyond seas," in the Maryland statute, were borrowed
from the statute of James 1, ch. 21 and have generally been. construed in this country n6t literally, but as meaning, " without the jurisdiction of the state." Now, in reference to this construction, the
decision of the court was correct, but it can have no direct bearing
upon the question under consideration. That, the District of Columbia must beconsidered as exercising the same general jurisdiction in
both counties, is undoubted; but the rights of its citizens are not
governed by the 'same laws. The counties of Washington and
Alexandria, excepting the modification made by the act of 1812, are
as foreign to each other, as regards the importation of slaves, as are
the states of Virginia and Maryland, Such we understand to be the
settled doctrine of the Circuit Court of this district. And this is no
unsatisfactory evidence of what the law is. An acquiesence of many
years in a course of decision involving private rights, should not be
changed except upon. the clearest ground of error.
-There is a provision in the Maryland law prohibiting the owner of
a slave frin manumitting him, if he be over forty-five years of age ;
and this is urged by counsel as.a reason why the .petitioner in this
case should not receive his liberty. He is now near sixty years of
age; but how his rights are to be affected by a law which restrains
the master, is not perceived. He claims to be wrongfully held in
servitude, and the court think his claim is founded. in law. Now,
shall he be kept in servitude because his master, if he were disposed,
could not manumit him? The law makes him free.without the concurrence of his mhster. Slaves brought into the state of Maryland,
in violation of the law, are declared to be free without reference to

408

SUPREME COURT.
Randel v. Brown.

their age. And the court cannot affmx a condition to thts right of
freedom, which the law does not authorize. Upon the whole, we
are unazimdusly of opinion, that the judgment of the Circuit Court
should be affirmed with costs.
ORDER.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the Circuit Court of the United States for the District of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Washington, and was argued
by counsel. On consideration whereof, It is now here- ordered and
adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the said Circuit Court
in this cause be, and the same is hereby affirmed with costs.

JoHN RANDEL, JUN., APPELLANT V. WILLux

LIN BROWN.

WILLAM LINN BRowN, APPELLANT, v. JOHN RANDEL, JUNm.
John Randel, Jun., placed in the hands of Brown. two certificates of stock, which
Brown afterwards refused to restore.
Randel filed a bill'in chancery against Brown, alleging that the deposit had been
made for an especial purpose, which had failed. The answer denied this, and
claimed a lien on the certificates, or that they were given as a payment. •
Held, from the bill, answer, and evidence, that they were not delivered to Brown,
either as a payment of a debt to himself, or to secure him from responsibility
to another.
Held also, that Brown had no legal or equitable interest in them at the time of
the rendition of the decree.
The righti of the parties as they stand when the decree is rendered, are to govern,
and not as they stood at any preceding time.
The retention of property, after the extinguishment of a lien, becomes a fraudulent possession.,
"A lien cannot arise, where, from the nature of the contract between the parties,
it would be inconsistent with the express terms or the clear intent of the contract."

THEsE two cases were argued together, being cross appels from
the CircUit Court of the United States for the eastern district of Pennsylvania, sitting as a court of equity.
The facts admitted or proved were few.

Prior to, and during the year 1831, Randel was engaged in a re-

