284

SUPREME COURT.
Stoddard et, al. v. Chambers.

capacity he elected to hold, as owner, or as administrator. He has
elected the latter; and the evidence is sufficient to establish that
right, pJriafacie. Bes-ides, it can be of no concern to the plaintiff
in error on which count the .verdict is taken, for in either case it is
equally a good foundation for a valid judgment against him, to the
extent of the sums due thereon.
There is yet another view of fhis matter. The question of the
amefidment was a question o.f discretion in the court below upon its
own review of the facts in evidence; and we know of no .ght or
authority in this court upon a writ of error to examine such a question, or the conclufqiorn to which the court below arrived upon a survey of the facts, which seem to us to have belonged appropriately
and exclusively to that court.
Upon the whole, in our opinion there is no error of the court below
in the amendment and proceedii tgs complained of, and the judgment
is therefore affirmed with costs.
ORDER.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of-the record
from the Circuit- Court of the United- States' for the southern district
of Alabama, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof,
] t is now here oidered and djudged by this court, that the judgment
of the said Circuit Court, inthis cause be, and the same is hereby
affiried with costs and damages at the rate of six per cent. per annum.

SIMON.STODDARD," CURTIS STODDARD, DANIEL STODDARD, ANTHONY.
STODDARD,

WILLIAM -STODDARD,

JOSEPH BiUNNELL .AND LUcy' His

wwn, Jobs Foma .A LAvn 'HmS wwE, JLrcy HoxiE, DANIEL
*MoRcAN AND AvA ,8.wriE,. PLiNPs IN' E4ROR, V,HARRY W.
CHAMERS.

A deed okland in Missodiri,in 1804-, attested by'two witnesses, purporting to have
been executed in the presence of a syndic, presented to the commissioners of
* United States in1811, and again brought forward As the foundation of a claim
'fore the c6.mntissioners in 1835, must be considered as evidbnce for a'jury
If i't was not -objected to in thd court loelow, it cannot be in this court..
A confirmation under the act of 18i6 to the original( claimant and his legal
representatives, entred, by way of estop el, to his assignee.

JAN4UARY TERM, 1844.

285

Stod.dard et a]. v, Chambers.
To bring a 'case within the second section of the act of 1836 so as to avoid a
confirmation, the opposing location must be shown to have been made " under
a law of the United States."
The holder of a New Madrid certificate had a right to locate it only of "public
lands which had been authorized to be sold." If it was located on lands
which were reserved from sale itt the time of issuing the patent the patent is
void.
There *as no reservation Trbm sale of the land claimed under a French or
Spanish title between the 26th of May, 1829, and the 9th July, 1832. A location under a New Madrid certificate, upon any land claimed under a French
or Spanisli title, not otherwise reserved, made i- this interval, would have
Peen gopd.
If two patents be issued by the United States -forthe same'land, and the first in
date be obtained fraudulently or.against law, it does'not carry the legal title.'
A patent is a mere ministerial act; and if it be issued, for laads reserved from
sale by.law, it is void.

Tils case came up; by writ of error, from'.the Circuit Court of the
United States for the district of Missouri.
It was an .ejectment brought- by the-plainffit inLerror (who were,
also plaintiffs in the court below) against the defendant.. The title
of the plaintiffi was derived-through .their ancestor, Amos Stoddard,
from an old Spanish.. concession, granted in 1800 ;, and that of the
defendant, to forty-seven acres and twenty-one hundredths of an acre,
from what is 'called a.NeW Madrid patent, issued to one Peltier under
the -act of Congress passed on the 11th February,.1815, ch. 198.
The defendant also claimed one acre and ,sixty.thrde' hundredths
under a certificate granted, 'under t1e same act, to one Coontz, for
which a patent had not issued. Beyond these forty-eight'acres'aid
eighty-four hundredths of an .acre, the defendant set up no claim.
The historical order of the facts in the case is this.
On the 21st of January, 1800, Mordecai Bell, a resi'dent of Louisiana, presented a petition to Don Carlos Dehault Delassuse, lieiitenantgovernor and commandant-in-chief 6f.Upper Louisiana, praying for
a concession of 350.arpens of land.
On the 29th of January, 1800, Delassuse made.the concession and
instructed the survayor,'Soulard, to put the petitioner in possession
of the land conceded...
On the 29th of May, 1804, Bell coxlveyed the concession and order
of survey to James Mackay. "'The original deed was in French, and
purported to, be executed before Richard Caulk, syndic of the . district of St: Andrew. The names of two attesting witnesses are also
subscribed.

286

SUPRTEME COURT.
Stoddard et al. v. Chambers.'

On the 2d of March, 1806, Congress passed an act ccfor ascertaining and adjusting the titles and claims to land within the territory
of Orleans and the district of Louisiana," the general purport of
rhich was to recognise all existing -grants. It further provided f6r
the appointment of three persons, who should examine, and decide
on. all claims submitted to them, and report the result to the secretary
of the treasury, who was directed to communicate it to Cohgress.
Oh the 26h of September, 1805, James Mackay conveyed the
grant and order of survey to Amos Stoddard, who :was at that. time
civil commandait, under the government of the United States, at St.
Louis. t may her&be remarked that- evidence was given on the
trial below that as early as 1817, Stoddard was in possession under
this deed, and that the facts of his death before the suit and of the
plaintiffs being his heirs at law -vere also given in evidence.
In January, 1806, Soulard, the surveyor-general of the teritory of
Louisiana, but not so unler the authority of Congress, made a plat
and certificate of the survey of the above land.
On the '3d of March, 1807,-C ongress passed another act relating
to land-titles in' Missouri, explanatory and corrective of the act of
1805. โข It also extended the time. limited for filing the claims to the
lsfrof July, 1808.
On the 29th of June, '1808, all the, papers relating to the claim
ware presented to the recorder of 'the district, viz. - 1. The coficession. 2. -Deed to Mackay. 3. Deed to Stoddard. 4. Certificate
of survey in favour- of Stoddard.
On the'15th of February; 1811, Congress passed an act, by which
the President was authorized, (section 10,) xc vhenever he shall think
proper, to direct so much of Ie public laids lying in.the territory of
Luisiana as shall have been surveyed in conformity with the eighth
section of this .act, to' be offered for sale-;" and further, cc That -all
such lands with th exception of th6 section number sixteen, which
shall be reserved. for the support of schools 'within the same; -with
the exception, also, of a tract reserved for the support of a seminary
of learning, as provided for by the eighth section of this act; and.
with the 'exception, also, of the salt prings and lead mines, and
lands contiguous thereto, which, by the direction of the President of
the Uhited States, may be reserved for the ffiture disposal of the said
stats, shall be offered-for sale to the highest bidder, under the direc-"
tion of the register of the land-offiee and the receiver of public
moneys, and of the principal deputy-surveyor, .and on such day or

287

JANUARY TERM, 1844.
Stoddard et al. v. Chambers.

days as shall, by public proclamation of the Prisident of the United
States; be designated for that purpose-" cProvided, however, that,
fill after thedecision pf Congress 4hereon'vno tract.shall be'offered.
for sale, the claim 'to which has been in due time, and according to
law, .presented to .the recorder of land-titles in the district of Louisiana, and flied in his office, for the purpose of being investigated by
the commissioners appointed for ascertaining the rights of persons
claiming lands in the territory of Louisiana."
On the 3d of-March, 1811, Congress passed another act, in which
the same reservation is made as is above stated.
On the'10th of October, 1811, the board of commissioners xejected
the.claim.
On the 17th of February, 1815, Congress passed an act declaring
that any person orpersons owning lands in the county ofNewMadrid,
in the Missouri 'territory, -.with the extent the said county had on the
tenth day of November, 1812, and vhose, lands had-been materially
injured by earthquakes, should be and they were thereby authorized
to locate the like quantity of land on' any of the*public lands of-said
territory authorized to be sold.
On the 9.8th of November, 1815, Fredcrick Bates recorder, &c .,
issued a certificate that a lot of one -arpent, in the village of Little
Prairie, in the county of New Midrid, owned by Eustache Peltier or"
his legal representatives,. was materially injur6d,by eafthquakes, aid
that said ..Eustache Peltier, or his legal representatives, was entitied
to locate any quantity.of land not exceeding 160 acres, on any of the
public lands in the territory of Missouri, the sale of which was authorized by law.
On the 24th of October, f1816, an entry was made of land in conformity with the above certificate. 'This entry' covered forty-seven
acres and twenty-one hundredths of the concession to Bell; and the
defendanit 'claimed under it.
In 1817, 1818, and 1819, the township in which the land in controversy lies, was surveyed under the authority of the United States, and
not offered at public sale by the authority of the President until 1823.
In March, 1818, the certificate -which had been issued in favour
of Peltier was surveyed by Brown, the deputy-surveyor, and t6e
location made. It may here be remarked that evidence was given
upon the trial, showing the possession of Peltier's location to have.
been in him and his assignees from 189 down to the occupancy of
the defendant, accompanied, by deeds,
-

S-1JPRE'ME COURT.
Stoddard et al. v. Chambers.

On the 29th of May, 1818, Martin Coontz made an entry under a
New Madrid certificate, which was surveyed in July, 1818. This
survey clashed with Bell's concession, and included one acre and
sixty-three hundredihs, which the defendant, Chambers, claimed under
Coontz's title. Coontz did nQt obtaina patent for it.
On the 26th of May, 1824, Congress passed another act, cc enabling
the claimants to lands within the limits of the state of Missouri and
teriltory of Arkansas to institute proceedings to try the validity of
their claims." It -allowed any persons claiming lands under old
grants or surveys, under certain circumstances, to present a petition
to the District Court of the state of Missouri, which court was authorized to give a decree in the matter, reviewable, if nieed- be, by the
Supreme Court of the United States. The 5th section provided that
a claim not before the District Court in two years, or not prosecuted
to final judgment in three years, should be for ever bfred both at
law and in equity; and the seventh section directed that where a
claim, tried under the provisions of the act, shouldbe finally decided
against the clainiant, or barred by virtue of any of the provisions of
the -act, the land spe6ified in such claim should, forthwith, be held
and taken as a partof the public lands of the United States, subject
to the same disposition' as any other public land in the same district.
On'the 26th of May, 1826, an act was passed continuing the above
act in force for two years.
On the 24th of May, 1828, another act was passed, by which the
act of 1824 was continued in force for the i'pose of filing petitions,
until the 26th day of M.y,'1829, and for the purpose of adjndicating
upon the claims until the 26th day of May, 1830.
On the 9th of July, 1832; Congress passed an cc act for the final
adjustment of private land-claims in Missoufi," which authorized
commissioners to examine all the unconfirmed claims to land in that
state, which had been filed prior to the 10th of March, .1804. The
commissioners were directed to class them, and at the commencement.of each session of Congress, during said timof examination,
lay before the commissioner of the general land-office a report of the
claims, so classed. The first class was to include the claims 'which
ought, in their opinion, to be confirme& according to the laws and
usages of' the Spanish goverfznent; the second, those which ought
not 'to be confirmed.
he third section provided that the lands
included in the first class should 'coitinue to be reserved from sale,
as heretofore, until the decision of Congress should be made agaimt

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

289

Stoddard et al. V. Chambers.

them; and those in the second class should be subject to sale as
other public lands.
On the 2d of March, 1833, Congress passed another act, directing
the commissioners to embrace every claim to a donation of and held
in virtue of settlement and cultivation.
On the 16th of July, 1832, a patent was issued to Peltier for the
land described in his survey.
. On the "8th of June, 1835, the commissioners decided that 350
arpens of land ought to be confirmed to Mordecai Bell, or his legal
iepresentatives, according to the survey.
On the 4th of July, 1836, Congress passed an act confirming claims
to land in the state of Missouri, by which it was declared that the
decisions in favour of land-claimants, made by the above commissioners were confirmed, saving and reserving, howevcr, to all adverse
claimants; the right to assert the validity of their.claims in a court or
courts of justice;' and the 2d section declared, that if it should be
found that any tract or tracts thus confirmed, or any patt thereof, had
been previously lcated by any other person or persons* under any
law of the United States, or had been surveyed or sold by the
United. States, the present act should confer ho title to -such
Jands in opposition to the rights acquired by such location or purchase.
The cause came on for trial at April term, 184ยง, in the Circuit
Court. After the evidence was closed the counsel for the defendaht
prayed the court to instruct the jury,
1. That the plaintifi are'not entitled to, recover in this action anyland included in the patent issued to Eustache Peltier or his legal
representatives.
2. That the plaintiffs are not entitled to recover in this action, any
land which the jury may find, from the evidence, to be embraced in
the locadon made in favour of Martin Coontz, or his legal' reprcsentatives.
Both of wbich instructions the court gave. Whereupon the counsel for the plaintiff excepted.
Lawless (in writing) and Ewing, for the plaintiff in error.
Jones, for the defendants.
Lawless referred to the facts in thc case and the acts of Congress
bearing upon them, and then 'proceeded thus:
The .plaintiffs in error respectfully contend, that the instructions
VoL. 1l.-37
2B

290

SUPREME COURT.
Stoddard et al. n Chambers.

given by the Circuit Court of thb United States in this case -re erroneous.
The counsel for the plaintifs in -error'wim assume, as a proposition, self-evident, that the title of the plaintiffs, under Amos Stoddard
and Mordecai Bell, is good as against the United States, and would,
if no antagonist private title txisted, or were set up, entitle the legal
representatives of Amos Stoddard, under Mordecai Bell, to the possession, of 350 arpens granted to Bell, surveyed for Amos Stoddard
under Bell, and confirmed by the act of Congress of the 4th July,
1836, to Mordecai Bell and his legal representatives.
The validity of the claim of Amos Stoddard and Bell to the 350
arpens has been fully established by the decision of the commissioners,
and the act of 1836.
If the land included in the grant to Mordecai Bell, and the survey
under it in favour of Amos Stoddard, had never been located by the
New Madrid speculator, or entered in the United States l.id-office,
there would be, it is presumed, no doubt, after the act of 1836, of
the- right of Ames Stoddard or his legal representatives to enter upon
that land, and us6 the same as their fee-simpie estate and absolute
property.
The question, then, that presents itself is, whether the title of Amos
Stoddard and his heirsto the land surveyed for Amos Stoddard has
been divested; since the date of the,survey, and between that time
and the 2d July, 1836, confirming the claim under
Mordecai Bell.
The defendant did not seriously, in the court below, contend that
'the title of the plaintif was not good against the United States, putting
out of view the defendant's patent and the location and survey -which
formed the basis of that patent. But it was insisted on the part of
the defendant, that the plaintiffs were only entitled to a right of relocation' of the quantity, contained in the survey made iri favour of
Amos Stoddard under Bell, because, by the second section of the act
4th July, 1836, the first section of which confirms the grant and survey of Stoddard under Mordecai Bell, it is provided, that where the
land included in the confirmed claim has been entered or located,
or otherwise disposed of by any act -of Congress, then the confirmee
shall only be entitled to a re-location of the same quantity on any
public land theretofore .authorized to be sold, and which has been
actually offered, for sale and remains unsold in the state of Missouri.
The defendant then contends that the land in question 'has been

JANUA.RY TERM, 1844.

291

Stoddard et al. v. Chambers.

disposed of by the United States vithin the. terms and meaning of
the sedond section of the act of 4th July, 1836i and concludes,
That, therefore, the plaintiffi cannot recover itin this action under
the title by them shown.
Thus, as has been already'submitted to this court,, the question,
resolves itself into this,'to wit:
Has the title of Amos Stoddard and his legal representatives to the
land in'-dispute been superseded, or "destroyed, or divested, previous
to the. 4th July, 1836.
If the title of Amos Stoddard under Bell was still in being on-the
4th July, 1836, it is manifest .that it must be still in being, inasmuch
as no ac of' Congress can, constitutionally, deprive a citizei of his
lawful estate in land by a mere enactment. The second section of
the act of 1836 pre-supposes that the sale or location, or other disposition of the land included in the grant confirmed by the first section,
were such sales, location, or other disposition as the act of Congress
I
and the law in force at this date justified:
This position cannot be assailed, unless by assuming the uncon Stitutional doctrine that Congress could enact the destruction of a citizen's title to his land, and dispense with the action of a court and
jury.
It would seem to be exceedingly disrespectful to the Congress of
the United States to attribute to that body any such intentions;. and
not less disrespectful to this high court to imagine, that,'if Congress
so enacted or so intended to enact, this court would sustain such
spoliatory and unconstitutional legislation.
The counsel for the plaintiffs in error will, therefore, take his stand
on his above constitutional, position, and from that elevated ground
examine the defendant's title.
The title, as has been seen, consists of1. A New Madrid certificate issued in favour of Eustache Peltier,
for 160 acres of land.
2. A location filed in the office of the surveyor-general, at St. Louis,
by a purchaser, under Peltier, of said certificate.
3. A survey of said location, made at the instance of said -purchaser
and lodator, by the surveyor-general.
4. A patent issued to. said Eustache Peltier, and his legal representatives, for said 160 acres, as located and surveyed, and by virtue
of said location and survey.
The counsel for the plaintiffP, for the purpose of.his argument, will.

-

02

SUPRE MIE COURT.
Stoddard et al. v. Chambers.

assume, as 'es adjudicata, that, itit be shown that the United States
had no title to the land described in the patent to Eustache Peltier,
that patent is void as against the confirmee, under the aft of 4th
July, 1836.
In the case of Polk's Lessee v. Wendell, 9 Cranch Rep. 99, the
Supreme Court of thE United States lays down the doctrine, ccthat
there are cases in which a grant is absolutely void, as -when the state
has no title to the thing granted, or when the officer had no authority
to issue the grant. In such cases, the validity of the grant is necessarily exaiiinable at law."
The facts upon which the Supreme Court decided, in Polk's case,
showed that the state of North Carolina attempted to grant lands to
which she had no title or authority to grant. The court therefore
pronounced her patent to be void.
If,
in the case now before the court, the patent to Eustache Peltier
and his legal representatives conveyed the land described in it, it
must be because this land had been previously divested out of Amos
Stoddard, under Mordecai Bell, and had become merged in the public domain, and part thereof.
If the land had not been so reunited to the public domain, it is
contended, that neither Eustache Peltier nor 'his assigns could have
lawfully located upon it, or have caused their location to be surveyed;
or, if the location and survey were to be made on their mere demand,
by the instrumentality of the surveyor-general of the United States,
at St. Louis, without any discretion on his part to refuse the location
and survey, the, although, strictly speaking, the location and survey
were made according to the letter of the second section of the law
of 1815, yet' it must have been at the risk of the locator, and those
claiming under him.
The counsel for plaintiff in error will now, therefore, proceed to
demonstrate that,.at the date of the location under Eustache Peltier,
the title was not divested out of Amos Stoddard, under Bell, in the
land so located, but was actually reserved from sale or disposition by
the United States, until the claim to it of Amos Stoddard, under Bell,
was finally passed upon by the proper authority.
It is in evidence in this case, that the claim of Amos Stoddard,
under'Bell, to the land in Peltier's location hbd been duly filed long
previous to the act .of 15th February, 1811. By reference to that
act, section 10, (2 Story's Laws United States, p. 1178,) it will be
seen that the President'of the United States was authorized, V*henever

JANUARY

TERM, 1844.

293

Stoddard et al. v. Chambers.

he shall think proper, to direct so much of the publid lands," c.
[Here'the counsel quoted that part of the act, which is set forth in
the statement of.the case by the reporter.]
By the act of-Congress of 17th February, 1818, (3 Story's Laws, p.
1659,) sect. 3, it is provided, "that whenever the land-office shall
have been established in any of the dist;icts aforesaid, (created bythe first section,) and a register and receiver of public moneys
appointed for the same, the President of the United States shall be,
and is hereby, authorized to direct so much of the public lands lying
in such district as shall have been surveyed according to law, to be
offered for sale, with, the same reservations and exceptions, in every
respect, as was provided for the sale of public lands in the territory
of Louisiana, by the tenth section of an act entitled, ' An act providing,' &c., being the same act above referred to."
As has been observed, it is in evidence in this case, that the land
located and patented under Peltier was included" in a claim which
was in due time, and according to law,- presented to the recordel,
and filed in his office, and therefore was reserved specially from sale,
by the acts of 1811 and 1818.
It is Mlso in evidence, fhat -the claim was actually included in a
list printed and published, at the instance of the recorder at St. Louis,
in pursuance of instructions froni the United-States land-department,
of lhnds reserved from sale in the district of St. Louis. It was not
contended by the defendant's counsel that if the land- in dispute had
constituted part of a lead-mine tract, or included, or was adjacent to,
a salt-spring, or foimed part of land reserved for public schools or
state seminaries, the location by Peltier's vendee could have held
the land, or that.a patent could have cured the defect of the location.
Nor, as the counsel for the plaintiff understands their; argument, do
they contend that the land included in Amos Stoddard's claim was
not resdrved under the acts of 1811 and 1819.
But, td get rid of the difficulty, they contend, that the words "in
the New Madrid act of 1815, section 1, -Any person or persons
owning lands in the county of New Madrid, in the Missouri territory,
with the extent the said county had on the tenth day of November,
1812, and whose lands have been materially injured by earthquakes,
shall be, and they are-hereby authorized , to locate the like quantity
of land on any of the public lands of said territory authorized to be
sold," ought to be construed to iean lands which, at any time after
2B2

294

SUPREME COURT.
Stoddard et al. v. Chambers.

the New Madrid location was made, should become public land, and
as such might be authorized to be sold.
And then the counsel for defendant endeavour to show, that subsequent to the date of the location under Peltier, the land did, in fhct,
become public land, and might have been authorized, by the President of the United States, to be sold.
The plaintiff's counsel will now proceed to demonstrate, in refutation of the above doctrine of the defendant, that1. The location, or the right of location, was confirmed by the act
of 1815 to the owner of the lands injured, whoever he might be at
the date of the passage of the act,. and not to his assignee or vendee
after the date of the act, as in the case before the court.
2. That the words in the act, "cthe sale of which is authorized by
law," mean, not land the sale of which, after the location made,
might be authorized by law, but land, and that, too, public land,
which, in conformity to the acts of 1811 and 1818, before adverted
to, were actually authorized by the President to be sold.
3. That the land included in the claim'of Amos Stoddard, under
Bell, upon which the locations under Eustache Peltier, and also
under Martin Coontz, have been made, never has become, at any
time, public land authorized to be sold.
In support of our first objection, namely, that the act does not
authdrize a location by an assignee whose assignment bears date
subsequent to the passage of the act, the court is referred to the specific provision in the first section, which Confines the right to locate
to the owner of the land injured. The court will see, by reference
to the record, that the locator under the certificate to Peltier, and
also to Coontz, was not the owner of the land insured at the date of
the passage of the act.
It is true, that in many, perhaps most cases, those locations have
been made by persons who were not the owners, but it is submitted
that this practice cannot have the effect of changing a positive law,
particularly when it is considered that this practice was introduced
for the benefit of mere speculators.
*Itis matter of record, and we may add, of authentic history, that,
under this abiisiv practice, the New Madrid law has been perverted
to the purposes of gross fraud upon the government of the United
States, and to the spoliation (as in the present case is attempted) of
private owners. The cbunsel for the plaintiffs in eror respectfully
submit, that when the act of 1815 is sought to be cdonverted into a

JA NUARY

TERM, 1844.

295

Stodddrd et al. v. Chambers.

species of penal law operating"a forfeiture as against private owners,
whose titles and claims were, at the date of that act, matters of record,
that act ought to be construed strictly.
If the question were now between the United States and locator,
there might, perhaps, be some ground for a liberal construction.. It
might be contended, that the surveyor-general, who filed the location and surveyed it, being an officer and agent of the United States,
his act as against his prificipal ought, if possible, to be binding. But
this sort of reasoning surely cannot be endured where the question is
between a total stranger to the surveyor-general and a tortious locator who, at his own risk, has thought proper to file a location calling
for land not public, and not authorized to be sold, and availing himself, for manifestly tortious and unjust purposes, of the instrumentality
of a purely ministerial officer.
In support of the position, that the words in the act, " the sale of
which is authorized by law," must be taken to mean, 1st, public
lands; 2d, lands authorized to be sold according to the provisions,
and cc with the same reservations 'and exceptions in every respect,"
contained in the 10th section of the act of 1811, aiad in the act of1818, before referred to, the plaintiff's counsel beg to call the attention of the court to the specific terms of those two acts, and to their
manifest object.
The counsel for plaintiff would also refer to the New Madrid act,
in which, besides the words, "the sale of which is authorized by
law," specifically provides, that "no such location shall include any
lead mine or salt spring."
By those, acts of 1811 and 1818, it seems too clear for argument,
that until the sectional lines were run, the president was not authorized to sell the land. The survey is directed to be made by those
acts, in conformity with the established system of public surveys.
The general bbject of that system is to designate, beyond all doubt,
in all future time, the boundary lines and the quantity of land
included within theib. The special object in Missouri was, besides,
'to ascertain the location and quantity bf all those lands reserved and
excepted from sale in those acts.
It was impossible that the objects, therefore, in view could be
attained without a survey having been previously made by the United
States.
'It was impossible, with any acQuracy, to ascertain the location or
quantity of mineral land-of salt-spring land. It was also impossible

296

SUPREME COURT.
Stoddard et al. v. Chaipbers.

to know where the 16th section fell, without survey. It was equally
impossible to know the ground covered by claims c duly filed with
the United States recorder," without such survey.
It is manifest, that tbe act of 1815 (New Madrid act) provides for
all this by requiring the location to be made, not only on public .land,
but public land authorized to be sold.
By the terms of the acts of 1811 and 1818,, (and as to'lead mines
and 'alt-springs, the New Madrid act itself,) a great extent of piublic
lend was excepted from sale. The President had no power to proclaim such lands for sale. But the act of 1815 requires that the location be not made on -those lands. How, theih, was the locator, or
the officer who filed the location to know when it. was made,
whether it interfered with lands which, though public, were not to
be sold?
While on this part of the subject before the court, the counsel for
the plaintiff in error would refer the court to the opinions of a distinguished attorney-general of the United States, the late William Wirt.
They are to be found in. the i Opinions of the Attorneys-General of
the United States, from the beginning of the Government to March
1st, 1831 ;" (published under the inspection of Henry D. Gilpin, in'
1841:) In this letter of the 11th May, 1820, to the secretary of the
treasury, (page 263,) Mr. Wirt says: 1st, That " the act attaches no
assignable quality to the charify it bestows," or -to make those
charities a subject of speculation ;" 2d, That "cit was not the intention of Congress, in authorizing the sufferers' to locate the like quantity of land on any of the public lands of the said territory which is
authorized by law,' to change or affect in any meiner that'admirable
system of location by squares, which had been so studiously adopted
in relation to all the territories."
In his letter of the 19th June, 1820, (page 273,) Mr. Wirt specifically gives it as his opinion; that the sale is not authorized by law
until the sectional lines are run, and consequently all locations
previously made by those su'fferers (New Madrid) are unauthorized.
The counsel for the plaintiff in error'begs leave to refer.to those
letters of Mr. Wirt, as strongly in support of the objection taken to
the location in this case, because of its having been made by an
"assignee. It does not app6ar that the person 'who signed the locatidns filed in this case with the surveyor, had any power of attorney
so to do. He acted for himself and for his.own benefit, and not for
that of the csufferer." The opinion of Mr. Wirt as to the necessity

-

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

297

Stodd.ard et aL v. Chambers.

of a previous survfey of the township, is clear and explicit, and,
besides, has been assented to by Congress.
By the act of 26th April, 1822, it is enacted, by section 1, " that
- the locations heretofore made, of warrants issued under the act of the
15th February, 1815, if made in pursuance of that act in other
respects, shall be perfected into grants. in -like xiaanner as if they conformed to the sectional or quarter sectional lines of the public surveys ;" and by section 2, " That hereafter holders and locators of
warrants shall be bound, in locating them, to.conform to sectional
lines as nearly as the llespectivequantities will admit."
The above act would not have been necessary if. Mr. Wift's
opinion was not adopted by Congress, or if it had been erroneous.
The act was obtained, as many acts unfortunately haie been, to suit
the purpose of speculators, and -to cure defects in their locations.
This act, however, cannot.operate beyond its import and terms.
It cannot make a location valid against a private owner, when, in its
origin it was void. The-only effect that, according to principles of
sound justice and jurisprudence, ought to be given to this act, is
merely to make good a location and survey, notwithstanding that it
did not originally, or did not at date of the act, coincide with sectional lines. But it is contended by plaintiff's counsel that; when-ever it shall appear that the location in other respects did not conform to the terms of the act, it shall not become available'under the
above act.
Mr. Wirt, in his above opinion, only adverted to one object in
view of Congress, but he might also, with equal propriety, have
urged the necessity of survey, in order to ascertain the location and
quality of those public and private lands which were excepted or
reserved from sale, and which could not be ascertained until the
.public surveys had been made, returned, and approved.
_ . As has been observed, it is in evidence in this case, that the surveys of-the-township in which the land in dispute is situated were
not returned till 1822, and that, at the date of those locations under
Peltier and Coontz, respectively, no survey at all had been made by
the United States
The court is also referred to the opinion of the attorney-general,
Wirt, in his letter of the 10th October, 1825,'-(p. 558,) which is
adverse to the legality of locations on land included in a claim duly
filed. Mr. Wirt, it will be seen in this letter, refers, in aid of hi'
9pirfion, to an official letter, dated 10th June, 1820, of the then.
VoL. IL-38

298

SUPREME COURT
Stoddard et aj. v. Chambers.

secretary of the treasury, Mr. Crakford. The construction, put by
Mr. Wirt upon the word, c thesale of which is authorized by law,"
in the act 'of 18]5, has been adopted by the United States' land
department and has been ieiterated in divers letters and opinions of
the solicitor of the United States' land-office, pd by the attorneygeneral of the United States.
For'the opinion of Attorney-General Butler, the court is referred
to (c Opinions," page 119P,) the letter of the attorney-general, of
11th August, 1839, in which he adopts the views of Mr. Wirt, and
in this very case of Mordecai Bell useg these words: "In the case of
Mordecai Bell, whose claim.to 350 arpens is confirmed by the act
of. July 4, 1836, I am of opinion, that the tract of six acres and
twenty-eight hundredths, included in the survey, and previously confinied by the old board of commissioners, must be regarded as
clearly held .by a prior title; but that Bell's claim will be valid for
the residue, notwithistanding- the survey includes two tracts located,
and another patented, under th.e New Madrid law. These cases
must -stand on the same ground as those noticed in the case of
Mackay, because the lands embraced in the act of 1836 wert
equally reserved from sale."
The above Opinions, though, not judicial authorities, are referred to
in aid of the humble argument of the plaintiff's counsel, and, in particular, are referred to as repelling any conclusion that may be drawn
iifavour of those locations, from what has been (very erroneously,
as it is conceived) denominated-contemporaneous construction and
practice.
Th6se opinions of the law officers of the United States, of the commissioner of the general land-office, and of the secretary of the treasury, can alone be referred to, to ascertain the construction that was
in fact- given to the New Madrid law. The acts done under that
law in Missoar- were ex parte, and interested acts, or purely ministerial acts done by an officer whom the law rendered a mere insteument
of the locator. Acts of this sort can claim no respect as demonstrating contemporaneous construction, or as establishing a lawful custom.
The court will see, on reference, to the second section of the New
Madrid law, that1. The recorder was bound to issue the certificate on the oath or
affirmation of a competent witness, that any person was entitled to
a tract under the provisions of the adt:,
2. That, upon such certificate being issued, and the location made,

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

299

Stoddard et al. v.. Chambers.

on the application of the claimants, it was made the duty of the principal deputy-surveyor to cause the survey'to be made.thereof, and to
return a plat of each location to the recorder.
3. That the recorder was directed to record the location and plat
in his office, and was to receive from the claimant the sum of two
dollars for receiving ptoof, issuing the certificate, and recording the plat as aforesaid.
4. By section 3, the recorder was obliged to issue a patefit certificate to the claimant.
5. The executive of the United. States was bound, upon the exhibition of the patent certificate, to issue the patent.
Thus, in each of those five stages of the locator's title, the locator
or claimant is "actor reus, etjudex."1
He rst designates the land by his location, which designation was
filed as of course. He then demands a suirvey of that location, which
the surveyor.general is obliged to make. He then demands, upon
the strength of the location iad survey, a patent certificate; and,
armed with this certificate, he proceeds to Washington city, and
demands his patent, which by the'terms of the third section of the
act, the executive of the United States is bound to give him.
It is true, that Mr. Wirt, in his letter of the tenth of October, 1825,
gives it as his opinion, that the issuing of the patent was not so purely
ministerial an act as to dispense with, on the part of the President,
all consideration of the location and survey on which it was founded.;
and therefore opposed the issuing of a patent to Mr. Bates, whodemanded, it under the provisions of the NewMadrid act. for land
included in a claim duly filed, or which was thin before a cou'rt of
competent jurisdiction: but this opinion of Mr. Wirt, although .the
department was not in favour of the New Madrid location, does not
appear to have prevented the issuing of the patent; doubtless, because the executive considered the act too imperative, or that, as a
ministerial officer, he preferred to leave the whole question of title,
as between the New Madrid, locator and the claimant, to be decided by a court of justice. In this view, it would, perhaps, be
difficult to establish - that the executive of t.e United States was in
error.
Having thus endeavoured, it is hoped satisfactorily, tq demonstrate,
that the whole of the proceedings on which- the patent to-Eustache
Peltier was based wbre not oply not in pursuance of the New Madrid
law, but in direct violation of it, the counsel for the plaintiff in error'

800

SUPREME COURT.
Stoddard et aL v. Chambers.

submit, as a logical and legal conclusion, that those proceedings,
and a patent based on them, could not, in the least degree, weaken
the claim of the plaintiff under Mordecai Bell, or divest the title,
-whatever it was, which at the date of the New Madrid act was in
Bell and his legal representatives.
It has beeii urged at bar in the court below, on behalf of the
defendant, and may be reiterated before the Supreme Court, that,
admitting, for- argument's sake, that the location was not good and
valid at-its date, it yet has become so'by operation of certain acts of
Congress, and that therefore the claimant under Bell can at most be
entitled to a re-locatiQn under the second section of the act of 1836,
under which he contends that his claim is confirmed. It has been
strenuously argued, that he must take the title or the confirmation
cum onere, or not at all ;--that be cannot control the mode in which
Congress has thought proper to extend their charity towards him,
nor escape from the conditions undE r which that charity has been.
bestowed. The counsel for the plaimiff might retort this argument
on the defendant. Surely, if the claimant under a Spanish" grant and
surey'be chargedwith mendicancy at the door of Congress, the New
Madrid sufferer has, afortiori,had charity-absolute alms, bestowed
upon 'him. Surely it is he that must be bound by the strict terms
and conditions of the gift, and not seek to enlarge it at the expense
either of the United States or of private proprietors. There is nothing in the position of the defendant, who rather represents a New
Madrid speculator than.a New Madrid ,,sufferer," to call for any
liberality of construction in his favour, especially when that liberality
is avowed to.be called for in order to effect a fQrfeiture, as against a
party whose original right to his land has been solemnly recognised,
first, by a board of commissioners, and afterwards by the Congress
of the United States.
This argument of the defendant's counsel assumes as proved,
what we contend has nb existence, namely, that the land included in
the claim*of Amos Stoddard, under Mordecai Bell, confirmed by the
act of 4th July, 1836, has been sold, located, or disposed of, accord?
ing to law. If it has not been so c disposed of," it is manifest, that
the confirmation by the first section of the act of 1836, carries the
whole title, and that the second section of that act has no application,
no subject-matter, to operate on.
We come now to the ground above adverted to, as taken by defendant's counsel, namely, that the location, though not good when

JANUARY

TERM, 1844.

301

Stoddard et al. v, Chambers.

made, has become good by operation of certain acts of Congress on
the claim of the plaintiff, and the land included in it.
The counsel for defendant; in support of this position, referred to
the acts of May 26, 1.24, May 26, 1826, and May 24, 1828.
They contend, that,. by the 5th section of the act of 1824, Va
claim to land within the purview of that act, which shall not be
brought before that court,or through neglect or delay of the claimant,
*shall not be prosecuted to a final decision -within three.years, shall be
for ever barred, both at la* and in equity; and no other action at
common law, or proceeding in equity, shall ever thereafter be sustained in any court whatever in relation to said claims."
To this, the plaintiff replies, that this section of the act of 1824
(renewed, as we admit, by fte acts of 1826 and 1828) can have no
bearing wliatever on 'the plaintiff's case or claim.
1. Because this section could not react on the proceeding, under
the New Madrid law, and render legal and valid a location and survey that were void ab initio.
2. That the section, if it ever could operate to exclude the plaintiff in his claim from a court of justide, has been repealed by Congress, and the plaintiff remitted to- all his Tight aidtitle- under the
grant to Bell, by the acts of 1832 and 1833, which authorized him
to place his claim before a board, in the same state of'vitality and
vigour in which it was when first filed with the recorder.3. That the act of 4th July, 1836, has confirmed the claim and
recognised it as entitled to protection by the treaty, and good and
valid to all intents and purposes.
This third reason, brings us to the paramount character of the
plaintiff's title; and, it is respectfully submitted, exhibits it as a titl6
which.Congress could not violate, even if they had so declared their
intention to do,
The commissioners under the acts'of 1832 and 1833 accompaiied
their decisions on the respective cases with a very full report and
exposition of their views of the claims and titles which they were
authorized to take under consideration, and the principles upon which
their classification wais made.
The principles thus laid down, by those commissioners, have not
only been sanctioned by the act of Congress of the 4th July, 1836;
but have been affirmed by the Supreme Court of the United States.
In their report of the 31st September, 1835, the commissioners parr
ticularly refer to the case of Chouteau v. United States, and also to

302

SUPREME CQURT.
Stoddard et al. v. Chambers.

the case of Delassus, under Deluzieres v. United States. The commissioners, in their report of 1833, adopted the'principle, that when
the grant, or the grant and survey, created a right of property, the
claim ought to be placed in the first- class as entitled to confirmation.
In their second -report of 1836, they reiterate this doctrine, and refer
to the Supreme Court of the United States in support of it. They
cite the very words of this court in the above cases. "cIn the first
case," say they, "cthe Supreme Court lays it down that 'orders of
survey, made by the lieutenant-governor of Upper Louisiana, are
the foundation of title, and are capable of bein'g perfected into complete titles; that they are property capable of being alienated; and
is, as such, to be held as sacred and inviolate as other property.'"
They also cite the language of the Supreme Cburt in the former case
of Delassus v. United States, as follows: cc The right of property
is prbtected and secure& by the treaty; and no principle is better
settled in this country, than that an inchoate title to land is property.
independent of treaty stipdlations, this right would be held sacred.
The sovereign who acquires an inhabited territory, acquires full dominion over it; but this -dominion is never 'supposed to divest the
vested rights of individuals to property. The language of the treaty
ceding Louisiana excludes every idea 9f interfering with private
property; of transferring lands which have been severed from the
royal domain."
The question of the inviolability of the right of Amos Stoddard,
under Mordecai Bell, issettled by the highest possible'authority,
legislative and judicial. It follows, as a clear consequence, that the
New Madrid law ought to receive such a construction as is consistent
with the above view of Congress and of the Supreme Court. It has
been endeavoured to be shown, that, by a fair interpretation of the
New Madrid act, no collision could take place between it and the
treaty of cession on those principles, -which, as, the Supreme Court
observes, independent of the treaty, would have protected the property of the plaintiffs in error; but it is respectfully, and confidently
also, contended, that if the terms of the New Madrid act, or any
other act of Congress, specifically purported to annul, or to violate
the right of the plaintiffs, thoseAerms must be disregarded, as unconstitutional.
It is not supposed, by plaintiff's counsel, -that the merits'of the
claim of Stoddard, under Bell,. can now become the subject of reexamination as against the United States, and with reference to the

JANUARY TERMS 1844.

303

Stoddard -et aL v. Chamb'ers.

validity of that claim when it was filed with the recorder. All that
has been already passed on and settled in favour of the claim. The
proceeding under the New Madrid law, pa~sed in 1815, can. have no
bearing on the original merits of a claim filed under an act of Congress passed in 1805. It would seem that the counsel for the defendaiit have abandoned the objection to original validity of plaintiff's
title, inasmuch as the instructions asked for by the defendant, and
given by the Circuit Court, are predicated on the patent to Eustache
Peltier, ara'on the'location under Coontz. The przmn fade title of
the plaintiffwas not seriously disputed.
In addition to what has been already submitted by plaintiff's counsel, on the subject of Peltier's patent, and the -grounds on which it
may-be successfully avoided in an action of ejectment, much more
might be said, drawn as well from the decisions of this court as from
the doctrine in England on the subject of royal grants of land. The
court must be well aware, that in England a king's grant may be got
rid of, -byshowing that, at the date of it the king had no title. It is
contended, on behalf of plaintiff in error, that this doctrine should be,
&fortiori,the law of the United States. The President of the United
States is, as respects public land, a pureV ministerial officer; whereas
the title td public lands in England is vested in the king. There is
no law, at least the counsel for plaintiff i error have'not been'able
to find one, which iinparts to a patent for land any peculiar virtue, or
any greater efficacy in operation than that of an ordinary deed of quitclaim, signed, sealed, and delivered by an attorney in fact for and in
the name of his principal. The 6ounsel for the plaintiff iif error,
while they admit that a Unite d States' Iand-patent constitutes a prim4
faci title, and th~t a party cannot at law get behind it, aid *avoid
it on. the ground of irregularity 'in te previous formalities, do respectfully contend, that, when the proceedings on which the patent
is founded are -utterly void, or where it is shown that the United
States had no estate in the land, or no right'to, grant the land, the
primfacie case made by the patent is rebutted.In conclusion, the counsel submit that-!1. .It appears from the record, that the -l aintiffs in error claim a
right, title, and estate, under a confirmation of a grant and survey
vested in them as heirs-at-law of Amos Stoddard.
2. That their right and title is protected and consummated by
treaty, and by'act of Congress.
3. That the decision of the Circuit Court of the United States
-

804

SUPREME COURT.
Stoddard et al. v. Chambers.

has been against their title, so derived, guaanteed, and consummated.
4. That this decision of the Circuit Court of the United States is
erroneous, and ought to be reversed.
Jones, for-the defendants in error, said he would inquire,
First, As to the instrument by which the plaintiffs attempt to connect the title of Amos Stoddard with the original title (whatever it
was) of Mordecai Bell, under the concession from the Spanish governor of Upper Louisiana; 'and, upon which instrument necessarily
depended any sbrt of right, at law or equity, in Stoddard to claim the
rights vested in Bell by that concession.
This instrument purports to.be executed by one Richard Caulk,
styling himself syndic of the district of 'St. Andrews, and certifying
that Mr. Bell was present before him, &c. It is produced as a
record, upon its own authority. It cannot be set up as a private act;
it is enough to say, that it is actually brought forward as a record.
If so,.it is invalid, unless it possesses the necessary requisites. Article 1132, of the Civil Code of Louisiana, changes the common law
in this respect, and says, that an act not authentic from defect of
form, &c., may avail as a private paper, if signed by the party. In
10 Louisiana Rep. 304,.there is the case of a mortgage signed by a
married woman, and sor-e of the witnesses did not see her sign.
The court set it aside, bdcause it was pioduced as an authentic act.
See, also, article 2233, adverted to in the case in 5 Martin, N. S. 68,
69. The distinction between authentic acts and private writings is
shown in Partidas, title 18, p. 222, 235.
All the decisions of this court in Florida cases, show that persons
must prove the authenticity of the paper under which they claim, and
that local laws must be proved below, as foreign laws.
The office of syndic is explained in 6 Peters, Strother v. Lucas:
he was only a subordinate police officer.
.The preface to the translation of the Partidas, p, 20, shows that
a proclamation of O'Reilly established syndics. There -is no evidence in the case that they acted as notaries. I
As to powers of comiandants, see 3 Maftin,'115. If this is not
valid as an authentic paper, will the lapse of time make it so, as a
private paper? It is-true, that time is of great value in sustaining
the muniments of title, where the property has been for a long time
efijoyed: but in this case, the party who claims under this instrument never was in possession.

JANUARY TERM, 1844.-

305

Stoddard et aL v. Chambers.

Secondly. As to Mordecai Bell's claim, which was confirmed by
the board of commissioners on the 8th' June, 1835, the plaintiffs, in
their statement, say it was that identical claim which had been filed
by Soulard with the recorder of land-titles, on the 29th June, 1808,
laid before the board for their action, and rejected by them on the
10th October, 1811;, as if the first decision against" the claim had
been subject to some condition or reservation, that kept the claim
alive during all the twenty-four intervening 'years, and still pending before the board, for their further consideration and final decision.
This is a clear mistake. 'Mordecai Bell's claim was never filed
with the recorder of land-titles, nor was it ever laid before the board
for adjudication, till Maxzh 30, 1835; near nineteen years after
Peltier's location, seventeen years after his survey, and two years
and eight months after his patent; sixteen' years and ten months after
Coontz's location, and sixteen years and eight .mnths after his, survey. It was Amos Stoddard's claim alone, as assignee of Mackay,
the pretended assignee of Bell, that was filed by Soulard, on the
29th June, 1808, with the recorder of land-titles; and definitively
rejected by the commissioners, on the 10th October, 1811; and
which, ever since that time to the commencement of the present
action, a period of twenty-eight years, had lain quiet and silent
under a jitdicial condemnation, unconditional and absolute in its
terms:--final in its effect.
. But the.claims of assignees and 'grantees are very different. An
assignee, as such might establish his claim before the commissioners,
who might, very properly, have confirmed the claim of Bell, as original grantee, without at all recognising the chain of title by which
it is alleged that the present claimants hold Bell's right. In such a
case, the plaintiffs would have no title; -and the facts in this case
leave it entirely doubtful, whether the commissioners did not intend
so to decide. 10 Peters-, 334; 6 Peters, 766.
What title did Bell acquire under the Spanih concession? He
is called a grantee, but there was no land described by netes and
br-',nds.. The concession was nothing but an ordar of survey,.but
nL
ate vested. 12 Wheat. 599; 6 Peters, 200.
On 10th March, 1804, Spanish authority ceased, and that al" the.
steps to acquire title were taken after that time. On the 29th of May,
1804, Bell conveyed the concession to Mac-ay, but the Spanish law
had then entirely ceased. A survey, made by private, authority,
after the change of flags, is void. 10 Peters, 234.
2c 2
VOL. 1-39

$OG

SUPREME COURT.Stoddard et al. v.Chambors.

Thirdly. As to the supposed confirmation of M. Bell's claim,
itsef, by the act of Congress of the 4th July, 1836, the plaintiff;
produced no evidence whatever, of that claim's being among "cthe
decisions in favour of land-claimants, laid before Congress by the
commissioner of the general land-oifice," prior to the passing of that
act; unless they rely on presuming that fact from another fact, certi"fied on the 27th March, 1840, by F. R. Conway, recorder of landtitles in'the state.of Missouri; namely, that -'said claim was included
in the transcript'of favourable decisions transmitted by the recorder of
land-titles, and.the two commissioners associated with him, to the
commissioner of the geheral land-office."
The title alleged by-the plaintiffs,,as it appears on their own showing, is held utterly viciou' and untenable; and if the defendant were
stripped of all right and title, still the full right and title to the land
in question would remain in the United States, without aiysort of
right in the plaintiffs to claim the land, either at law.o'r equity. In
support of this, proposition, the following objections to the plantifit'
title are held demonstrative and insuperable.
1st. The pretefded act of sale and exchange from Bell to Mackay
was utterly inoperative and void ab initib ;. and therefore the commissioners were fully sustained by the law ind the fact of the case when
they decided, as they must have decided, since they rejected Stoddard's claim and admitted Bell's, that Stoddard had failed to make
out any valid claim in himself, derived through Mackay from Bell;
andit is a fair if not a necessary presumption, under all the circumstaeces, that the specific defect, for which his derivative claim was
rejected by the commissioners, was found in this broken link in the
chain by which he attempted to connect his claim with the original
title of Bell.
This instrument, throughout its whole frame and tenor, and in the
manner of its execution, pursues, the form and claims the authenticity
annd efct of a "public or authentic act" executed under official
sanction, and equivalent- to record evidence, as contradistinguished
from a " private writing," to be proved in the ordinary way. Like
all such acts, it speaks in the name and character of the officer who
-executed it, not of the parties. It -was produced as such an act;
as'an act that c proves itself;" that is " full proof" in itself, without
any proof of execution in the ordinary way. It must, therefore, be
shown to be the very thing, ft professes and is claimed to be, or nothing; failing as an authentic act, it cannot, according to^ the known
-

JANUARY

TERM, 1844.

80,

Stoddard et al. v. Chambers.

laws of Louisiana, be set up as a private writing, nor was it attempted to be so set up.
The validity and effect of this instrument wholly depends on the
lekal competeficy of R. Caulke styling himself syndic of a district; to
execute an authentic act in relation to contracts, and the're is nothing
to show, either that he was, such syndic as he describes himselfj or,
being such, that he had any authority,.in virtue of that office, to execute authentic acts. On the contrary, from all that is known of the
office of a iyndic, 'he was merely a municipal police officer, bf very
subordinate authority and functions; and is clearly excluded from
every description of officer ever recognised by'the laws and customs
of Louisiana as having authority to execute'such acts.
2d. But 'whatever maybe now thought or said of the intrinsic
force and effect of.the instrument, if it were-res integra, the decision
of the commissioners against Stoddard's claim (unreversed and unquestioned as it' has stood for so many years) is conclusive against
the title xnow set up by the plaiitifs.
3d. If there had been.no decision- of the commissioners against
the claim, it'would have been equally beyond the cognisance of the
court. No title derived from an imperfect Spanish grant, like that
to Bpl, could be set up, or in any manner recogxiised in any court
of the United States', of of any state, till it had passed-the tests provided -by the. acts of Congress; that is, till confirmed, first by 'the
commissioners, then by Congress, and then re,,larly located and
identified. by survey, and lastly carried out into grant by a patent
from the United States.
4th. Whatever-title,,whethdr an inchoate or a complete legal title,
be vested by the decision of the commissioners, the confirmation of
that decision by Congress, and the subsequent s irvey locating and
identifying- the land- to which the claim'was so confirmed, thatitle
was vested in Bell exclusively,
But it is said by the uunsel on the other side, that the deed of
exchange between Bell and Mackay is a mutual warranty, which is
aif estoppel, and 'that an estoppel will qupport an ejectment., tut
this is not a case of estoppel, which is binding only on the donor
and his heirs. If one makes a deed -when he -has no title and' afterwards acquires one, he is estopped; but if he acquires a lesser estate
than he uas conveyed, there is'no estoppel.- 4 Cruise's Digest, 271,
sect. 58, New Yokk edition 9f 1834; 4 Kentzs Commentaries, 98,
260, 261, 8' Barn, and Cres.'497.

808

SUPREME COURT.
Stoddard et al. v. Chambers.

In 1804, the assignee stood in the place of the original grantee,
and had only a right to acquire land. What, then, is the warranty
in the exchange? Only that the warrantor will not cliim contrary
to the, grant; he does not warrant that the grantee shall have the
land, because he could not warrant the faith of the Spanish or American government. 2 Barn. and Ad. 278.
The act of Congress interferes with the estoppel. As to the effect
of aii act of Parliament upon an estoppel, see 2 T. R. 169.
5th. Even Bell's claim is in no way shown to have been included
in "cthe decisions in favour of land-claimants," which are referred
to in the act of Congress of July 4, 1836, as.being within its purview, and which are to be identified by reference- aliunde.
II. The title vested in Bell himself is but inchoate and incomplete,
and wholly incompetent to support the action of ejectment. The
legal estate in fee, if not vested in the defendant, still remains in the
United States.
.Asto the title of the plaifitiffs, if they cpuld set up any derivative
claim under Bell; if they could establish -the validity of the intermediate assignments under which they attempt to derive their claim
from Bell; and if the Circuit Court cold have taken original cognisance of any title so derived, and not .having passed the tests aforesaid, (each and every of which hypotheses we deny,) still the plaintiffs
show nothing more than an equitable right to call the legal estate out
of Bell's hands, if such legal estate be vested in him, or otherwise to
affect and appropriate such inchoate title as may be found vested in
-him.

III. As to the two objections taken.to the defendant's title
Objection 1. That the locations and surveys of Peltier and Coontz
were on lands not then for sale.
Answer. The description of the lands oh which the entries and
locations of the New Madrid land-warrants were allowed, was not
limited to lands offered for sale, bilt to such lands as were not
reserved from sale by the land laws of the United States.
Objection 2. That a claim for the land in dispute, under the
Spanish grant or concession to Bell, was' already before the commissioners for adjudication when those entries and locations were made,
and so *ithin the" express exception of the act of Congress which
authorized such entries and locations
Answer 1st. The claim before the commissioners was for no particular tract of land, ,distinguished by metes and bounds,.or other-

JANUARY

TERM, 1844.

809

Stoddard et al. v. Chambers.

wise, from the mass of.public lands subject to the claim but simply
for 350 arpens'of land: to be afterwards duly laid off and surveyed.
The survey by Stoddardiin 1808, was wholly unauthorized, and void;
and if he took any possession of the land so surveyed, it was but, a
naked and tortious possession of so much of the public lands. No
special location of the land so claimed could be pretended till it
came to be officially surveyed, May 26, 1837, " in conformity, as it
is said, with the decision of the late board of. commissionersi and il
virtue, of the confirmation thereof by the act of Congress'approved on
the .4thJuly, 1836."
Answer 2d. No claim for the land in dispute, or for any other
land under the Spanish concession to Bell, was before the commissioners, either at the inception or consummation of the two titles
vested in the defendant, and derived from Peltier and Coontz; nor till
the lapse of many years thereafter, when Bell's claim was first laid
before the board, in March, 1835. As to Stoddard's claim, it had
been definitively rejected by the board six years before the very
inception of those titles by the New Madrid land-warrants, and has
never been, foran instant, sub judice, since its final rejection by the
board in Octoler, 1811, till the comxfiencement of this suit.
Ewing, for the plaintiffs in error, and in reply.
We contend that -the plaintiffi have the better title, and ought to
have recovered against both the patent of Peltier, and the survey of
Coontz.
The claim of Mordecai Bell was duly filed with, the recorder of
land-titles-for the proper district on the 29th of June, 1808, pursuant
to the provisions of the act of March' 2d, 1805, ch. 86, sect. 4, and
the act of April 21st, 1806, ch. 39, sect. 3, and the act of March 3d,
180.7, ch. 91, sect. 5.
The concession was good. It is settled' that Delassus had a right
to grant. Land Laws; 542; 9 Peters, 146.
The defendant cannot no* go behind, the confirmation by the
cqommissioners and by Congress. The, claim was. guarantied by
treaty,. and although no survey had taken place, Congress indirectly
required us to make it. The act of March 2, 1805, ch. 86, directs,
all grantees from the Spanish government, including orders of survey,
to file a plat, &c. It is true that there was no public survey made
under the authority of Congress, for there was no public officer to'do
it. Soulard, -who calls himself surveyor-general, was not so under

310

SUPREME COURT.
Stoddard et al. v. Chambers.

the authority of the United States. Thi is admitted. But he was
recognised by existing legal authorities. He was the most proper
man to make a private survey, which he did. The Supreme Court of
Missouri has held his to be semi-official acts. There are hundreds of
cases in the reports of te commissioners of surveys by this same man,
and the commissioners took from his records a transcript for their
own governmetit. This claim is confirmed as having been surveyed.
The act of 3d March, 1807, ch. 101, sect. 1 to 5, saves Spanish
claims. In 1808, the commissioners refused to confirm this claim,
but Congress continued to pass other laws, and no -laim was considered to befitally disposed of because it was refused. This one
remained on file until Congress should pass upon it.
By the act of February 15th, 1811, ch. 1, sect. 10, it is enacted,
"cThat till after .the decision of Congress thereon, no tract of land
shall be offered for sale, the claim to which has been in due time and
-according to law presented to the recorder of land-titles in the dis-,
trict- of Lousiana, and filed, in his office, for the purpose. of being
investigated by the commissioners appointed for ascertaining the

rights of persons claiming lands in the territory of Louisiana."

The

same provision is contained in the act -f March 3d, 1811, ch. 113,
sect. 10, and it is referred to and continued iii the act of February
17, 1818, ch. 11, sect. 3.
The act of March 26th, 1824, ch. 173, which provides for the
trial of Spanish claims in the district courts, and the supplementai-y
act of May 24th, 1828, ch. 92, superseded and suspended this saving
from the 26th day of May, 1829, until.it was revived by the act of
July 9, 1832, ch. 180, sect. 3.
As to our title before the confirmation.
The concession was in 1800, the assignment in 1804, the survey
in1806, which shows all the papers to have been in the hands of
the surveyor. In 1808, Stoddart filed his claim before the commissioners.- By the Spanish law the delivery of papers is equivalent to
the delivery of the land itself. But the deed is formal enough. It
was not the public act of a notary, but that was not'necessary. One
mode of conveyance is for a notary with two others to summon the
parties before him and make up a.record, which is itself a transfer of
title; but another mode is by the party signing a deed. TheSpanish
laws are not accurately carried out in remote countries. Even in our
distant settlements, a record is sometimes made up partly by parol.
In 1769, O'Reilly says there were no lawyers in the cotintry except

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

811

Stoddard et at. v. Chambers.

at New Orleans. In 1802, there were no notaries except at the
same place. The people had been transferred often from one power
to another, and must have been uncertain sometimes to whom they.
belonged. They executed deeds before any high officer whom they
could find. Moralez implies that commandants might -take acknowledgments of deeds. The syndic was next in authority to the cdm-.
mandant, with whom he acted sometimes as judge. 2 Land Laws,,
204, 210, index.
By comparing O'Reilly, 2, 5, 12, with Moralez, 4, 5, 15, it will
appear that the syndic was. a judicial officer. The-Partidas says that
proof must be given that the officer was a public onel unless after a
long lapse of time. In the preface to the Partidas, the syndic is mentioned after the alcaldes and before the attorney-general. If, .therefore, the deed from Bell'was not exactly in a regular form, it was in
the customary way.
The claim was prosecuted by Stoddard and not Bell until it was
rejected. But this decision was not final, as the act of 183.2, ch. 180,
(4 Story, 2305,) authorized the comnissioners to proceed on. all
rejected claims standing on the records of the former'commissioners,
with or without a fresh- presentation. The claim was confirmed to
Bell or his legal representatives. Ten or twelve other. cases are just
in the same way. Senate Doc. for 1835-6, vol. 2, doc. 16, pp. 7,
15, 33, 69. In these cases the claim is made by the assignee, and
the confirmation is to the original party or to his legal r'epresentatives.
As to the meaning of this expression, see 12 Peters, 458, Strother
and Lucas. Bell is estoppea, or rather rebutted from saying that the confirmation. is not to Stoddard, for he ha." conveyed to. Stoddard with
warranty, which amounts to an estoppel. Co. Litt. 174a, 384b;
12 Johnson, 201; 13 Johnson, 316; 14 Johnson, 193; 1 Miss.
Rep. 217. Title by estoppel is sufficient to maintain an ejectment.
1 Salkeld, 216; 2 Lord Rayni. 1554; 6 Mod. 257, 259, same ease
as Salkeld, 3 P. W)-372.
Bell's deed is sufficiently proved before this court, hecause it was
not objected- to below. No one can allege an outstanding title.in
Bell, because he could not do so for himself
,This case, therefore, came within the acts of Congress which have
been mentioned, and this. land was reserved from sale. Congress
looked only to the 'fact that the claim was legally ied, and not to
the validity of the'claim itself. Between 1829 and 1832, when the

812-

SUPREME COURT.
Staddard et al. v. Chambers.

reervation was withdraivn, entries werd made and have been sustained by courts in Missouri. But these defendants did' nothing in
this interval. It is the same case as B6beani and the Fort a Chicago.
The land was reserved and the entry was void. See opinions of the
law-officers of the government in the following volumes: " Opinions
and Instructions," part 2, p. 12, sect. 3; p. 16, sect. 15; p. 25,
sect. 23; p. 29, sect, 30. "cOpinions of Attorney-General," Gilpin's Compilation, p. 1200, for the opinion of Mr. Butler, examining
this very claim, datdd August .8, 1838.
That a confirmation is a grant of the legal title, see 12 Peters,'454.
The defendant claims title under the act of February 17th, 1815,
ch. 198, whish .authorizes a sufferer by earthquakes, in the county
of New Madrid, having obtained his certificate to locate it " on any
.pui1ic land of the territory, the~sale of which is authorized by law."
At the time of the locations of Peltier and Coontz, the sale of the
land which they located was not authorized by law.
1lst. ,Because the land was not surveyed, as it must.be, before the
sale was authorized; but if this be cured by the act of April 26,
1822, ch. 40.
. 2d. Because it was specially reserved. from sale to abide the final
decision 6f Congres on the claim of Mordecai Bell, which was duly
filed, dnd then not finally decided by Congress.
* The -law-reserving this land from sale was in full force at the time
of the locations. and surveys'of both Peltier and, Coontz, and also at
the "timeof issuing the'patent'to Peltier.
The act of July 4th,. 1836, ch. 361, -which confirms the claim of.
Bell,' also enacts, " that if it shall be found that -any tract or tracts
confirmed as aforesaid, or any part there6f had been previously located
by. any other person or persons under any law of the United States,
or had been surveyed and sold by he United States, this act shall
confer,no title to such land in opposition to the rights acquired 'by
such location or purchase."
We contend that the location, "under any law," must be a loca-,
tion authoi.zed by such law. That this locatioji was not so authorized, but, on the contrary, forbidden; that no rights were acquired
by such location; and that, therefore, the saving does not protect the
defexrdant's claim. Wilcox v. Jackson, 13 Peters, 510, 511, 513.
'As to the mode of proceeding, we contend:
That the act of July 4th, 1836, is a grant, and confers a complete
legal title on Bell, or his legal representatives. It is ; confirmation'

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

918

Stoddard et al. v. Chambers.

of a title before imperfect; that an action of ejectment may be sus.
tained upon it on general principles. Rutherford v. Green's heirs,
2 Wheat. 196, 205; 12 Peters, 454.
And especially by the laws of Missouri. Revised Code of 1835.
13 Peters, 441, in note.
That the patent to Peltier .having issued against law, for land
reserved from location and sale, it is void. '13 Peters, 511.
If there was no incipient right, the patent does not vest a title.
1 Wash. C. C. Rep. 113, case of Alton Wood, 1 Rep. 45.
That the plaintiffs having a valid legal title, the inception of which
was prioi to that.of defendant, and which is the better title, it will
overcome the elder patent at law. Ross v. Doe, ex demi of Barland, 1 Peters, 662; Bagnell v. Brodrick, 13 Peters, 450, 454.
This point does not arise in that part of the case which dependsupon the location and- certificate of Coontz.
Mr. Justic6 McLEAN delivered the opinion of the court.
This case is from the Circuit Court of Missouri, and was .broughthere by a writ of error.
The plaintiffs brought an action of ejectment for 350 arpens of
'land, situated near St. Louis.. Their-title was founded ona concession by Delassus, lieutenant-governor, to0Mordecai Bell, the 29th of
January, 1800. Bell-conveyed. the same to James Mackay, the 29th
of May, 1804, and on the 26th September, 1805, he conveyed to
Amos Stoddard; A plat and certificate of the survey-were certified,
and recorded by Antoine Soulard, as surveyor-general, the 29th of
January, 1806.
The above papers were presented to tie tecorder of the dishict of
3t.. Louis, the 29th of June, 1808. And the claim was duly filed
with the board of commissioners for their action thereon, who, on the
10th of October, 1811i rejected it. But dflerwardN, on the 8th of
June, 1835, the board decided that 350 arpens .of land -ought to be
coznfrmed, to the said Mordecai Bell, or his legal representatives,
according to the survey. And on the 4th of July, 1836, an act of
Congress was passed, confirming the decision of the commissioners.
The land as'surveyed as confirmed. The plaintiffs proved the
death of Amos Stoddard, before the suit was commenced, and that
they are his heirs-at-law. The defendant was proved to be in possession of forty-eight acres 'and eigHty-four hundredths of the land in
controversy;one acre and-sixty-three hundredths of which were in-the
VoL. I.--40
2D

314

SUPREME COURT.
Stoddard et a]. v. Chambers.

location and survey of Martin Coontz, and the residue within the
-patent of Plder. The title of the defendant was founded on an entry made by ]eeltier of 160 acres of land, by virtue-of a New Madrid certificate, on
the 24th of October, 1816. A survey of the entry was made-.in
March, 1818, and a'patent to Peltier was issued the 16th of Julyi832. .Possession has. been held under this title since 1819. The
title wdas conveyed to the defendant.
On the 929th of May, 1818, an entry was made, which authorized
the survey of Coontz..but.no patent has been issued on it.
The townshiip in which the above tract is situated was surveyed in
1817, 181.8, find- 1819, and. was examined in 1822.' Since 1804, a
certain mound on the land has been called Stoddard's mound. - In
1823 the proclamation of the' President, published at St. Louis,
directed the lands in the above township to be.offered at public'sale.
On the above evidence the court instructed the jury,
1. "That the "plaintiffs were not entitled to -recover the land.
embraced in Peltier's patent.
'2.. That they were not entitled. to recover the land embraced in
-Coontz's survey.
The .decision of this controversy mainly depends on the construction of certain acts of Congress. By the act of the 2d -of March,
1805, -1Prsons xeskiing in the teritary of.Orleans, who had 'claims.
to land under the French.or Spanish government, were required- to
Qe their claims for record with he registqs of the land-office, or
recorder of land itles, and provision was made for confirming them.
The time limited in th-. above act was extended by the act of the
3d of Mar6h, 1807, as regards the filing of claims with the register of
recorder,'until 'the 1st of July, .1808. By the act of the 15th of Feb-'
mary, 1811. the President 'was authorized to have the lands which
had been surveyed in Louisiana ofihred for sale; - provided, however, that till after the. decision of Congress thereon, no tract of land
shal.be offered for. sale, the claim to which has been in due time,
and according to law,,.presented to the recorder of land-titles in -the
district of Lo-isiana) and filed -in his office, for the purpose of being
investigated by.the" commissioners appointed fbr ascertaining the
rights of persons. claiming land in the territory of Louisiana." The
same Ireservation wias repeated in the act of the -3d of Marchi 1811:
. The act of the 26th of May, 1824, authorized claimants cc under
- French or Spanish grants,, concessions, 'warrants, or orders of sur-

JANUARY TERM, 1844.

815

Stoddard et al. v. Chambers.

m
ile
veys" in Missouri, issued before the 10th of March, 1804,
their petition in the District Court of the United States for the con'
firmation of their claims. And every claimant was declared by the
same act to be barred, who did not file his petition in.two years."
By the act of the 24th of May, 1828, the time for filing petitibns Was
extended to the 26th of May, 1829.. On the 9th of July, 1832, an
act was passed, "for th final'adjustment of land-titles in. Missouri,"
which provided that the recorder -ofland-titles, with t-wro commissioners to be appointed, should examine all the unconfirmed claims to
land in Missouri, which.had heretofore been filed in the ofce of the
said recorder, according to !aw, prior to* the 10th of March, 1804.
And they were required to clss the claims sq as .to " state in'the first
class what claims, in their opinion, would in fact have been confirmed,. according to the laws, usages, and customs of the Spanish
government and the practice. of the Spanish authorities under them.
And secondly, what claims in their opini6n are destitute of merit,
laws or equity.:' And by the third section it was provided, "cthat from
and after. the final report of the recorder and. commissioners, the
lands .Contained in'the seyd6nd class shall be subject to sale as bther
public lands; and the lands contained in the fii.t class ihall continhie
to be reserved from sale as heretofore, until the decision of Congress
shall be against the claims of any of them; 'and the lands so decided
'against shall be in like manner subject to sale as. other public
lands."
These are. the facts and statutory'provisions which
are material in
the case. The defendant, under the entry and survey of Peltibr,'
holds'the elder legal title to the'land in coiitroversy, except the one
covered -by the entry and
acre and sixty-three hundredths, whichi .is
survey of Coontz. Until the conlirniation of the plaintifls' title by
the act of 1836, the legal title to the land claimed was not vested in
-the plaintiff.
Objections are made to the intermediate conv'eyances under *lbch
the plaintiffs claih. And first, it is insisted, that the deed frdhBell
-to Mackay was not proved. It is stated on the record, 'that there
-was no proof that R. Caulk, the syndic, befcrre whom the deed Was
signed-'and acknowledged, had'authority fo'act as such.
The deed was executed ih 1804. 'It was attested by two wit-.'
the teseicetf
nesses, ahd purports to have been acknowledged 'in
a syndic. There was .naexception to the .admission of this deed in
evidence ; and, consequently, the objections now made'to its execu-

{316

SUPREME COURT.
Stoddard e.t al. v. Chambers.

tion are not before the court. But if the execution of the instrument
were now open to. objections, they could not be sustained. Forty
years have elapsed nince this deed purports- tohave" been executed.
From that time to this, a claim under it seems to have'leen asserted.
It was presented to the commissioners in 1811, having been filed
with the recorder of land-titles, in 1808. And again, it was brought
before the commissioners in 1835, it having remained on file until
that time. Under these circumstances, the regular proof of the
instrument might well be dispensed with. Possession, under. this
deed, was held by Stoddartifor a time, and became so notorious that
a certain elevation-on the land-was called Stoddard's mound.
Independently of-tue lapse of time, the unsettled state of the
country at the time this instrument was signed, the transfers of the
country from -one sovereignty to another, the rude and defective
organization of the government-the civil and military functions
being blended, are facts wvhich no cox rt can disregard in acting updn
transfers of property between individuals. If some degree of-regular-ity and formwere observed in regard to public grants, technical and
legal forms cannot be required in the transmission of claims to land;
among- a people, the great mass of whom were ignorant of the forms
of titles, and indeed, of almost every thing which pertained to civil
government
A syndic was 4ot, in that country, an appointed officer, as he is in
a regulated goyernment; but the duties devolved upon' the commandants of military ports, as occasion might require. There is
nothing on the face of this deed to excite suspicion. It was attested
by two witnesses, and contains the signature and certificate of the
syndic. The genuineness of these attestations -was not objected to
on the admission of the deed as evidence, or on a motion to overrule
it. The deed must, therefore, be considered as evidence to the jury,
without exception. And, under all the circumstances, we think,
that full effect should have.been given to it, as a muniment of title.
The deed from Mackay to Stoddard, the ancestor of the plaintifs, is
not objected to. Belf made the conveyance to Mackay, not having
the legal title; but when, under- the act of 1836, the report of the
commissioners was confirmed to Bell and his legal representatives,
the legal title vested in him, and enured, by way of estoppel,.
to his grantee, -and those who claim by deed under him. A- confirmation, by act of Congress, vests in the confirmee the right of
the, United States, and a patent, if issued, could only be evi-

JANUARY TERM

1844.

,817

Stoddard et al. v.-Chambers.

dence or this. On a title by estoppel, an action of ejectment&may
be maintained.
If the claim of the defendant had not been interposed, no 'one
could doubt the validity of the plaintiffs' title. It has the highedt
sanction of the government, an act of legislation. But the 2d section
of the'act of 1836, which gave this sanction, provided, "that .if it
should be found that anytract confirmed, or any part thereof, liAd
been previously located -by-any other person or persons, under any
law of the United States, or had been surveyed or sold by the United States, that act should confer no title to such lands, in opposition
to the rights acquired by such location- or purchase."
This provision, it is insisted, covers the case, and defeats the title
of the plaintiffs. But,-it must be observed, that a location, to come
within the section, must have been made "cunder a law of the United
States." Now an act under a law, means in conformity W.ih it; and
unless the" locatibn of the defendant shall have been made agreeably
to law, or the. patent were so issued, the reservation does not affect
the title of the plaintiffs.
The holder of a New Madrid certificate had a right to locate it
only on ",public lands which had been authorized to be sold."
Peltier's location was made in 1816, and his survey in 1818, The
location of Coontz was made in 1818, ahd his survey.in 1818. At
these dates there can be be no question that all lands claimed under
a French or Spanish titlei which claim had been filed with the recorder of land-titles-as the plaintiffs' claim had been-wereres erved
from sale by the acts of Congress above stated. This reservation
was continued up to the 26th of May, 1829, when it ceased, until it
was revived by the act of the 9th of July, 1832, and.was continued
until the linal confirmation of the plaintiffs' title, by the act of 1836.
The .defendant's patent was issued the 16th of July,- 1832. So
that it appears, that when the .defendant's. claim was entered, surveyed, and patented, the land covered by it, so far as the location
interferes with the 'plaintiffs' survey, was not "h part of the public
'land authorized to be sold."
On the above facts, the important question arises, whether the
defendant's title is not void. That this is a question- as well examinable at law as in chancery, will not be controverted. That .the
elder legal title must prevail in the action of ejectment, is undoubted:
But the inquiry here is, whether the defendant has any title, as
against the plaintiffs. And there seems to be no difficulty in answer2D2

318

SUPREME COURT.
.

.Stoddard

et a] v. Chambers.

ing the question, that he has not. His location waยง made on lands
not liable to be thus appropriated; but expressly reserved; and this
was the case when his patent was issued. Had the entry been made,
or the patent issued, after the 26th of May, 1829, when the reservation ceased, and 'before it was revived by the act of 1832, the title
of the defendant could not be contested. But at no othei inteival
of time, from the location of Bell, until its confirmation in 1836, was
the lhnd claimed by him liable to be appropriated in satisfaction of a
New. Madrid certificate.
No title can be held valid which has been acquired against law;
and such is the character of the defendant's title, so far as it trenches
on the plaintiff's. It has been argued, that the first patent appropriates the land, and extinguishes all prior claims of inferior dignity.
But this view is not sustainable. The issuing of a patent is a ministerial act, which must be performed 'according to law. A patent is
-utterly void and inoperative, which is issued for lad that had been
previously patented to another individual.. The fee having been.
vested in the patentee by the first patent, the record could convey no
right. It is true a patent possesses the highest verity. It cannot be
contradicted or explained by parol, but if it has been fraudulently
obtained or issued against law it is-void.- Itwould be a most dangerous principle to hold, that a patent should carry the legal title,
though obtained fraudulently or against law. Fraud vitiates all transactions. It makes void a judgment, which is a much more solemn act
than the issuing of a patent. The patent of the defendant having
been for 14fid reserved from such appropriation; is void; and also the
survey of Coontz, so far as either conflicts with the plaintiffs' title.
For the foregoing reasons, we think the instructions of the court to
the jury were erroneous; .and, consequently, the judgment must be
reversed at the defendant's cost, and a venire de novo is awarded.
ORDER.

This cause came on to be heard 'on the transcript of the record
from the Ciruit Court of the United States for the district- of
Missouri, and was argued by counsel. On consideration whereof,
It is now here ordered and adjudged by this court, that fhe judgment
of the said .Circuit Court, in this cause be- and the same is hereby
reversed with costs; and that this cause be, and the same is hereby
remanded to the said Circuit Court, with directions to award a venir

facia de novo.

-

