FEBRUARY TERM 1SI.
that before the Court. In those cases the deed was ae- BANK OF
clared void without any view to creditors. In this case ALEiXANthe deed is declared void for the particular benefit 6f DRIA
T.
creditors. To set up this deed against the creditors
would be to defeat the very object for which the law HERBERT.
Was made.
The counsel for the Appellant is well apprised of this
distinction, and though he claims for his clients the
benefit of this deed against the trustee, he admits that
it could not be sustained against the creditors suing in
their own names.
In reason there can oe no difference between this
suit, which asserts the right of the creditors in the
mode prescribed by law, and an assertion of that right
in their own names. Nor does the law distinguish between them. The cases cited did not turn on any distinction between the rights of the assignee and the creditors, but on the preference'which ought to be giiven to
him who has trusted on the credit of the particular fund
over those who had trusted the general fund.
TIe decree is affirmed with costs.

MIARCARDIE I

181-.

TV.

TILE CHESAPEAKE INSURANCE COMPANY.

ERROR to the CirCuit Uourt for the distrit of Whreitecltotal Jos,
nical

Maryland.

The facts of this case were thus stated by
in delivering the opinion of the Court.

i souglit to b
maintained

STORY,

thbof
mere
J.upon
ground
de.
terioration
of
the
catgo, at
.in intermedi.

This is an action on a policy of insurance, under- ate port, toi.
written by the Defendants, on the 29th of October, 1806, moiety of its
for 9 31,000, upon any,y kind of la'wful goods on board valae'oll
rioration dete
of

the brig Betsey, whereof Alexander TA'Dougal was then memoraudii,

SUPREME COURT V, S.
MA C urDrIr

mastpr, on a voyage at and from New York to Nantes,

M'Dougal was the general o%Nuer of the brig, and, on
the Ist day of October, 1806, by a charter-party of af.
C lisA- freighltment made with the PIintiff, granted, and to
FEAKS freight let, to tile Plaintiff, the said brig, excepting and
is. co. reserving her cabin for the use of the master and mate
and for acco mmodation of passengers, as therein mentioned, and so much room in the hold as might be necessa.articles p
ry fori the mariners, and storage of water, wood, provi.
he exe Ile
ftom the est- si6ns, and cables, for die voyage from New York Lo
mate The-- Nantes and M, Dougal. by the same instrument covefore, inla cr
gof a nixed nanted to man, victual, and navigate the brig at his
character, no own charge during the voyage, and to receive on board
alinndoninent
for mere dete-any shipmnt of g ods, not contraband. Which the
itHin
rioration
va- Plaintiff should tender at the side of the ship. or .%
lue duringih therec
voyage, can be reach of her tackles, at New York, and to stow and sevalid, unless cure the same, and proceed therewith to Nantes. and
tie damilage there discharge the same. The passengers on board
on the noi mnmoadum the brig were to be at the joint expense cf the parties,
narticlesexceed
oinety of" and the passaege money was to be eqtally divided bethe value of tween them. The other clatise," in the charte'r party are
vt.

the
whole
go includin

car- not materiad to be stated, except that the Plaintificove-

the meOran-

dun aticles.
Where thegefieral owner
reofaip
tain- the possession, com-

mand & navi-

of the
gation
ul
same, and

trace,

nanted to- pay the stipulated freight and demurrage.
The cargoj put on board by the Plaintiff. was of the invoice value of S 29,889, of Which 7,1.39 were in memorandun articles. The brig sailed on the voyage,
under the command of MDougal, on the 9th of Novemher, 1806, and during the Voy Age waS compelled by
stress of weather, and other accidents, to bear away, for

=',nd the West Indies. and arrived at the port of St. Johns, in

Antigua, on the 22d day of December. There the master made application to the vice admiralty for a survey.
wrsuc
his applicala
upon
chtter-party &c. and such proceedings were
is to he consi- tion. that Ithe cargo was landed, and by a decretal order
afa
ofthe Court, of the 31st of January, 1807, the same
dered
mecre afa cargo on

freight fortie
vovage, the

freightmeut

Sd

i

was ordered to be sold for the benefit -of all concerned,

reserving' the question as to freight. Under this decree.

covernant, and,

the freiglte11( the cargo was accor(ingly sold, and the sales completed
is notelothed before the 28th of March, 1807 ; and the nett proceeds
-with the character or legal of

the whole

of the Plaintiff's property amounted to

responsibility S 13,767. The n.ett proceeds of the memorandum arwere $6,863 30.
ofownershpip.ies, included in the same su,
In such case,
The whole proceeds were paid over to an agent apthe general
owner is also 'pointed by ADongal, and the freight for thc whole
osner for the
voyage. Con- voyage was allowked him by the admiralty, upon a re-

FEBitUARYT TERSI 1811.
purl of commissioners, to whom the question was re- MARlCAnferred. The brig was repaired at Anugua, Avitiin a
i a
reasonable time, at the exponse of one sixth only of her
v.
value, and capable of performing" tbe voyage vyith the cnEs.&original cargo; but M.Dougal voluntarily abandoned PEAKB
the voyage at Antigua, fir his oixn emnolun.ent ard ad- IzN. sco.
vantage. Of the car.o, 99 bags of coffee were spoilod -andl thrown overboard, and tLe residue greatly da- squenti,i f
maged by the perils of the stas; and the whole caroi, lie be
o.lthe niaa.
o
vles
includintg the nemorandum articles, sustained a datnag.t, '-', fr is inca, com.
a moiety. of its original va- p"abh.
during the voyage,. ex(
. ..eetdin
mitting bari
lu.
On the ith of Feb. 180-, and 'i itliin a reasonable ut.
time after receivinig infoirmation (tf the loss, the Plaintiff
abandoned the whoh cargo to the undeiwritrs.
The declaration contained two counts, foi a total loss
lst. by the perils of the s,as, and 2d('. by barratry of the
niaster. At the trial, the Court below, upon the facts
and circunstances above stated, held that the Plh-intiff
was not entitlel to reco%'er, as for a total loss of the cargo insured, including the mniemorandom afticks; aid
the cause came up t this Court, upon a bill of exceptions to that opinion
HARPEn, for the Plaitiff:
The great controversy between the parties in this
case, turns on the question, whether the loss of the cargo now under.consideration, was partial or total. Itis
coutend d, on thie part of the Plaintiff, that it %as a total
loss.

ist. By the dangers of the seas.
2d. By the barratry or thi

master.

By the dangers of the seas1st. Because the voyage was broken up and lost by
the deterioration of the cargo, to more than half of its
value.
2d. Because there may be a total loss of memorandum
articles, by the loss of the voyage ; alfhough the artides themselves remain in existence, and of some value.
VOL. VIII.
C

SUPREME COURT U. S.
31ARCAR-

By the barratry of the master-

DIER

To.
CHESA-

1st. Because the acts imputed to him, amount to bar.
ratry, if he were in a situation to commit it.

PEAKE

TNS. co

2d. Because by the charter-party, the Plaintiff became owner lro hac vice, and M'Do'igal merely master,
so as to be in a situation to commit barratry.
The question to be tirst considered, may be stated as
follows :
Whe-ther, in case a cargo consists partly of memorandtum articles. (on which no partial loss can be recovered,)
a total loss is incurred by the breaking up of the voyage
on account of such a deterioration of the %N
hole cargo,
(including a deterioration of the memorandum articles,)
as reduces the value of the whole cargo more than one
lilf.
We hold the affirmative of the question.
But there are two cases which have been considered
as very strong in favor of the negative. These are,
Ist. The case of Wilson 4.qnother ..Smith, 3. Bumr.
1550. cited also in Marsh. (i.%t m. ed.) 1441. This was
of a ship with a cargo of corn, which, having met with
a stormn was obliged to run for the nearest port to refit, where she incurred a considerable expense in repairs. On her arrival at her port of destination, it
was found- that the corn was damaged to more than
half its value. Lord Mandfield decided, that this loss,
not being of the nature of a general average, nor arising from time the ship's being stranded, could not be re.
covered on the policy; for that the words of the memorandum, -free from average, unless general, or the
ship be stranded," did not make a. condition, but only
an exception.
The answer to this case is, that the vessel had arrived at the place of destination; the voyage therefore
was riot broken up, and so no total loss could be claim
ed on the ground, that the cargo was deteriorated more
than half its value.

FEBRUARY TERM i8i.

45

2d. The other case, and that which is chiefly relied MARC*Uupon by the Defendants, is the case of Cooking v. Fra- DIB I
-.
ser--Ifarsh. (ist Am. ed.) 1-4!.
CHESA-

Here the voyage was broken up; and it was decided PLAKE
by lord .31anyeld, and the other justices who sat in the INS. co.
cause, one of whom was Mr. Justice Buller, that if the
articles for which the insurer is warranted to be free
fron average, except general, spec flcally remain after
the voyage, though by sea daniage they are rendered
of ino vatue, 1et, if the stdp has not been stranded, this
is only a partial loss, for which the insurer is not i
able.
The antlr:ty of this case, it must be confessedl,
would go [ar le prevent the present Plaintiff from recovring as fv, a total l),5s, were it. not for the observatio-., made utpon it by lNrd A'enyon, in the case of Burnett v. r }ieluton, 7. T: B. 210.-Also .Marsh. (ist. Am.
ed.) 151. The opinion of the Court in that case tends
very miich to invalidate its authority.
The prineipli of Coclng v. Fraser, is also overruled
in the case of *.andrews v. Yaughan, larsh. (1st. Am.
ed.) iS1-and Park, 1i, which goes to show that,
where a cargo consists of int mor~ndum articlesi if the
,oyage be lolt, the insured may recover as for a total
loss, though the cargo be not wholly destroyed. And
there is, in fact, the same reason that the breaking up
of a vqyage, in case of memorandum articles, should
constitute a total loss, as where the cargo consists ok
articles not mentioned in the memorandum. The general doctrine now is, with regard to both descriptions
of goods, that there may be a total loss by the breaking
tip of the voyage.
. Dyson v. ttowcroft, 3. Bos. 6- Pal. -7-, is another
case against the principle lald down in Cocking v. Fraser. The opinion of the Court here, was, that it is ato.
tal loss of memorandum articles, although they may re
main ia specie, if they become so much damaged as to
be no longer worth carrying to the port of destina.
tion-

The next question is, whether there was a total loss

SUPREME COURT U, S.
MARCAR- by the barratry of the master; and this must b6 de-

DilRv.
CY1E1A-

FEAKr

cided by ascertaining whoi was the owner of the ya.ssel
for the voyage; for it is agreed on all hands, that if the
master wvas in a situation to commit barr~try, he was
actually guilty oI'that offence.

INS. Co.
A person may be owner for the voyage, who is not
the general owner of the ship ; :,nd barratry may be
committed ag.ainst such person by the master, although
the barratrous act of the master may have been done
with thil- consent of the actua.0 general owner. Cowp.
143, Vllejo -v. Wheeler. See the same case also in Marsh.
(ist. Ain. ed.) ,1:4.
In the case now before the Court, Marcardier, the
Plaintiff, was owner of the vessel pro lac,.-ice, although
jNDou.zal. the nias!r, nas the general owm~er. We
contend them efore, that, acco! ding to the principles Ia d
dow, it, the case last cited. tilre vaste" was in a situation to commit barratry a.gainst the Plaintiff-lat he
has actually done so-and thermfore that the Plaintiff
is intitled to recover as for it total lss.
PIKu-E-, contra.
It has been contend;d fir the Plaintiff, that there may
be atotal loss by the breaking up ,fa voyage, if the goods
on board be deterioraled more thtan half. No English authority, to thisrff of, is recolle( ted. Tle Cou'ts
in New York have so decided, it is true ; but the principle may be considcred as arbitrary, and the decision
as local.
According to MAnsArIJ,, (En. Cd.) vot 2, p. i.86, it
the goods insured specifically reimnai, and are actually
landed at the port of(deliveri,. how-ever'damaged in the
voyage, the iinjury will amount but to a partial loss
'Wiy. then, should the insured have a right to
abandon tis for a total loss at an intermediate port.
if the goods canm be carried, in the same or another ship. to the place of destination ? All the authoritirs in favor of the right to abandon at an intermedi
ate port. are- cases where the voyage was broken up
by the incapacity cf the ship to perform it. But in the.
Present case, there was'no such incapacity;. The vessel

FEBRUARY TERM

isi.

was repaired at Antigua within a reasonable, time, at MAnCARthe expense of one sixth of her value, and was capable DI R
-v.
of perfi'riniug th6 voyage, with a considerable part (at
least one third) of the original cargo. The case there- CHESAforv, is materially different from those cited on the part PEAKt;
Of' the Plaintiff.
id'.Park's observations in the cases Is. Cqo.
of Coeking v. Fraser,A- Dyson v. Rowerft, 1. Park.
(6th Lou. ed ) 152. Also 2. Jlarsh. (Eng. ed.) 586,
."anning

v. Ovlewthani.

It is the opinion of the best judges in cases of this
nature, tliat the law of abandonment has already been
carried far enough ; but the counsel for the Plaintiff
would carry it to an extent hitherto unprecedented.
With regard to memorandum articles, all the~authorities go to show that there must be an actual total loss,
in order to justify an abandonment. A technical total
loss, is not suflicient. The underwriters are not liable
fi mere deterioration, however great, of such articles:
Thy refulse to have any thing to do with it, on account
of the dilliculty of knowing the real cause of such deter
rioration. 1. .Marsh. (Eng. ed.) 227, note to the case df
Coeking v. Fraser. As to memorandum articles, also.
the intermediate port makes no difference.
In the case of Dyson v. lowcroft, ,3.Bos. 4- Put. 47, .
there was an aclual total loss. The Court, in that case,
do nut mean to say that memoraidum articles may be
sulect to a technical total loss.
The alleged barratry is next to be considered. The
question arising on this point is, as has been already
stated, whether the master, under the circumstances of
the case, could commit harratry. If he could, the facts
seem to show that he was guilty of the offence. But wr
contend that the master was, in fact, the owner of the
vesoel for the voyage, as well as general owner, and
ther fore, since barratry is a fraud against the owner.

he could not be guilty of that offence, insomuch as a man
cannot commit a fraud against himself. The charterparty, in this case, is of a peculiar construction; it
sounds in covenant thr'oughout ; it is clearly not an assignmeut of the property to the .Plaintiff, pro hac rice..

SUPREME COURT U. S.
The master finds the crew, pays them, provides for
them, and has the whole management of thi vessel: He
must, therefore, be considered as owner for the voyage.
T.
CHESAIn -Vdlejo v. Wheeler, the charter-party is not set forth,
P7AKE
but it is stated in the case thatthe freighter employed the
irs. co. master and crew., and paid the crew. The Court said
it would be different if it were not a general freighti.g.
Here the Plaintiff was not a general firieghter. Loft,
who also reports the case of Valleo -v. Wheeler, (Loft,
64) says, that where the master employs and pays the
crew, &c. the charter-party, seems to be rather a covenant, and does not make the frieghter owner for the voyage. 1. .Jolatson. 229, .1,Inlire v. Bowne. 8. Johnson
272, Mallet -v. The Cohmiitn Insurance Company. 1.
Cranch, izi-i, tlioe 4- Co. -v. Groverman.

MARCAR.DIET

HA-RPER, in reply.

The question as to barratry is, who had the beneficial interest in the vessel during the voyage There
can be no doubt that the beneficial interest was in the
Plaintiff. It is of no importance, as it regards tho ownership of the vessel, by whom the crew was furnished.
provided for, &c. The freighting of a vessel where the
crew and otier necessaries for the voyag are provi.Ied
by the general ownr, is merely like hiring a house ready furnished, instead of hiring it ,empty, where the temporary ownership is no less in the liner, in the former
case, than in the latter.
Thursday, Feb. .7.

Jtbsent....WASHrNGTON,

J.

STORY, JT delivered the opinion of the Court as fob

lows
The Pl-intiff in this case contends, that there was a
total loss, which authorized an abandonment by both of
theperils stated in the declaration viz.
Ist. By the perils of the seas, and
24. By barratry of the master.
And first, as to a total loss by the perils of the seqs

FEBRUARY TERM I81.
It seems now clear that a techlnic~al total loss may MARCAXarise from the mere deterioration of a cargo by any.. DIEu
of the perils insured against, if the deterioration be as,.
certained at an inte-rmediate port, of nccessity, short of cIus.A.the port of destination. In such case, although the PEAK.
ship be in a capacity to perform the voyage, yet if the iNs. co.
voyage be not worth pursuing, or the thing insured
be so damaged and spoiled -s to be of little or no value,
the insured has a right to abandn the projected adventure, and throwv upon the underwriter the unproitaaik
and disastrous subject of insurance. It has thereire
been held. that ita cargo be damaged in the course of
the voyage, and it a)p(,ar that what has been savcl
is less in valae than the amount of the freight, ,it is it
clea' case of a total loss. It does ,lot, however, appicar
that the exact quantum of damage which shall authorize an abandonmnent as for a total loss, has ever become
the direct subject of adjudication in the English Courts.
The celebrated treatise Le Guido. ch. 7, art. i, considrrs that a damage excet(in.g the moiety of the value
of the thing insured, is sufficient to authorize an abaitdonment. This rule has received some couptenance
from more recent elementary \riteis ; and, ftorn its
public convenience and certainty, has been adopted as
the governing principle in some of the most resjfrctalhl
commercial stales in the union ; and perllaps is .ow sto
generally established as not easily to be shaken. 1,
Joh1. C. 111. 1, John. R. 335, -106 . Alarsh. 111s. 56%1.
Note 92, dnt. edit. 1810.
'ark, 19 , 6 edition.
But this rule has never been deemed to extend to a
cargo consisting wholly of memorandum articles. The
legal effect of the meinoranduna is to protect the underwriter from all partial losses ;and ifa loss by deterioration, exceeding a moiety in value, would authorize all
abandonment, the great object of the stipulation wouhi
be completely evaded. It seems, therefore, to b tlte
settled doctrine that nothing short of a total extinction,
either physical or in value, of"memorandum articles at
an inter'mediate port, would entitle the insured to turn
tie case into a total loss, where the voyage is capable
of beinE performed. And perhaps, even as to an extinction in value, where the commodity specifically remains, it may yet be deemed not quite settled whether.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
under the like circumstances, it would authorize aui
tzF.IE abandonment for a total loss. Dyson v. Bowcroft, 3,
v.
Bos. and Pull. 47i,. .Jlaggrath-v. Church, 1, Caines R.
CrESA- 212. Cocking -v. Frazer, .31arshall, 227. Park, 152,
PEAKE
6th edition.

MARCAR-

INS. CO.

The case before the Court is of a mixed character.
It embraces articles of both descriptions; sonie within
and others without the purview of the memorandum.
If, in such a case, a deterioration exceeding a moiety
in value, be a proper case of technical total loss, it will
follow that, in many cases, the underwriter will, indirectly, be rendered responsible for partial losses on the
memorandum articles. Suppose, in such a case, the
damage of the memorandum articles were 40 per cent.
and to the other articles 10 per cent. in tie whole amounting to half the value of the cargo, the underu1 riter would be rcsponsible' for a technical total losi, and
thereby made to bear the whole damage, from which
the memorandum meant to exempt him. Indeed cases
oiight arise in which the damage might vxclusively fall
on memorandum articles; and if it exceeded the moiety,
in value, of the %%holecarg o, might load im witHi the
burthen of a partial loss, in manifest contravention of
tle intention' of the parities. A construction which
leads-to such a collse(lunlCe cannot be admitted unless

it be unavoidable. Arid we are entirely satisfi. d that
such a construction ought not to prevail. 'I'hie underwriter is, in all cases of deterioration, entitled to an exemption fimn partial losses on the memorandum articles;
and in order to effectuate this right, it is nec'essary,
where a technical total loss is sought to be maintained
upon the mere ground of det riuration of tie cargo, at
an interhiediate port, to a noiety of its va!ue, to exclude

fron that estimate all deterioration of the memorandum
articles. Upon this principle, on a cat-go of a mixed
character, no abandonment for mere deterioration in valie during the voyage, can be valid, unl- ss the drnage
on the non-memorandum articles exceed a moiety of
the value of the whole cargo including the memorandum
articks. The case is considlered, as to the underwriter,
tie same as though the memo m:andom articles shouldexist
in tht-ir original sound state'. In this uay, flil effect
is given to the contract of th e parties, The underwri-

FERUARY TERM i811.
ier is never made responsible for partial losses on me- MIRAOAN
morandum articles, howvever great; and the technical DiEr
v.
total losses for which alone lie can be liable, are such
as stand unaflected by the perishable nature of the con- CHESA.
nodity which he insures.

EAxL
INS. CO.

In the present case, the facts alleged by the Plaintiff
,lo not show a depreciation of a moiety in value, excluding the memorandum articles. There is no evidence of Jthe quantum of depreciation of any part of the
cargo. The forced sales at Antigua could not, under
the circumstances, constitute a medium by which to ascertain it, Admitting, therelore, the rule to be correct,
that the party had a rigiA. to abanfioh where the d- preciation exceeds a miiety of the value, the Phlintiffi has
not brought himsclf mithin that rule as ap,.lied to a
car go of a mixed chara ter like the prcs'nt. The Court
below were right, therefore, in deciding that there was
no total loss proved by the perils of the ses.
The next question is, wvhether there was a totol loss
by the barratry of the master. And this depends exclusively upn the consideration, who was owner of the
brig for the voyage; for it is conceded, on all sides,
the conduct of the master was barratrous, if he
tlt
was in a situation to commit that offence. Barratry is
an act colmnitted by the master or mariners of a s!'ip,
for some unlawful or fraudlent purpose, contrary to
their duty to their owners, whereby the latter sustain
an injury. It folows, therefore, from the Y-ry terms
of the definition, that it cannot be cemmitted by a master who is owher for the voyagO ; because lie cannot
conuit a fraud against himsell" But it may be c,?n
itted against a person who is owner for the, voya'e,
although he may not be the general owner of the ship
A person may be owner for the voyage, who, by a contra(t with the general owner, hires the ship for the
voyage, and has the exclusive p.isf ssion, command and
navigation of the ship. Such is understood to have
been the case of' J'aflljo -v Wheeler, Cowp. [-.3. But
where the general owner retains tlu possession, command and navigation of the ship, and contracts to carry
a ciirgo on freight for the voyage, the charl r party is
considered as a were affreightment sounding in covenaut, an( the freighler is Jit clothed with the character
VOL VII1.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
itCAR- or legal responsibility of ownership; such was the case of
iuz.R
Hooe c' Co. v. GroTerinanin this Court, I Cr. 211. In the
v.
first case, the general fr'tighter is responsible for the (oncHEsA- duct of the master and mariners during the voyage; in
iE.tKE the lattercase, the responsibility rests on the general ownINS. co. er. On examining the charter-party in the present case,
there can be no doubt, from the terms and stipulations,
that it falls within the latter class of cases. The master, who was the general owner, retained the exclusive
possession, comnmand and managenment of the vessel,
and she was navigated at his expense during the voyage. The whole charter party, except the introductory
clause, sounds merely in covenant. The ownership
was not divested by the covenant of affreightmenr, and,
consequently, the master was incapable of committing
barratry. There iVas, then, no total loss on the second
count in the declaration.
The opinion of the Circuit Court on this exception
must be sustained. But there are other exceptions on
the record, in which' it is admitted by the parties that
the Circuit Court erred. The points intended to be
raised in these exceptions have, in efficct, being decided by this Court in Ca e and Richaud v. the Baltimore
Inmtrance Company, at Feb. term, 1813. For the errors in these exceptions the judgment must be reversed.
with directions to time Circuit Court to award a 'venire
facias de novo.

HALL v. LEIGH AND AL.

181t.
cb.

120.

lbsent .... WASHINGTON, J.

THIS case is so fully stated inthe opinion of the
of" Court that it is deemed unnecessary to add more than
thcrrlandize
conlsign
itt. that HARFE1i and PuNKNEY, for the Plahiff in error,
IftOr

joint

owners

merchant
sale, and for
n did

.

.,

not argue the case as there was no appearance for
tnd
th Defendants in error, but simply stated that they

each osw o e contended that the separate instructionis or each owner
moiety.; endifsevered the joint interest, and cited I, Esp. ii7, (Ind

wrate and va. Watson on rPartnershijp,233, 234.

