FEBRUARY TERM 1814.
PiNxwY,referred to the history of the times, to Show
TR
that Whitehilt had no knowledge of the war when he FitcEs.,

went to St. Eustatius.

(G!LLESPIE's

HARPER.

If Whitehill did not know that war had CLAi.,)

actually been declared, he knew that measures had been BOYER,
taken whi "hmay be considered as equivalent to a de- MA-,TER.
claration. The capture took place in February. He
knew that letters of inarque had been issued in December preceding, and that a long irritation had existed
between the two 'governments. He knew, also, that
the trade in which lie was engaged, was a trade frowned
upon by his own government. In the present case, the
circumstances were entirely different. 5 Rob. 220, Z17.

Saturday, Xlarck i2th. Jtsent....LIvINGSTOI, 3.
MARSHALL,

Ch. J. delivered the opinion of the Court

as follows:

Colin Gdl'ospie, a naturalized American citizen residing in Glasgow, claim"d sundry goods, shipped on
his own account, as his property. This claim depends
entirely on his national character, and is decided in the
case of the M'nus.
The sentence of the Circuit Court, condemning the
property of the Claimant, is affirmed.

VOWLES

AND OTHEMS "v.CRAIG AND OTHERS.

lbsent... MARSHALL, C. J.

THIS ease, as stated by

opinion of the Court was

Is

ToD,

follows:

I8i4,
March 14th,

. in delivering the Ifi person,

oanedob-

vey upon a mi,
t'and denrP
UtaRyramt
the war
of •,
side
This suit was instituted on the chancery
.
_
Circuit Court -if th Unit'd States ror th- Kentacky dis- the commontrict, by the Complainants, now Appellants as the heirs wealth of Vir

SUPREME COURT U. S.
vowims and legal representatives of Mary Vowles formerly Mary
OTHERS Frazer.
TV.
CRAIG

The bill alleges thitt in the year 177- a survey was
&oranRq. made for Mar 3 Frazer as heir at law, and only daughter of George Frazer, dec'd. by virtue of the .governors
in'a for 2000 warrant and agreeable to the royal proclamation of 1763,
sel and f'r 2000 acres of land in Fincastle c,,unty, on Elkhorix,
acres,
tra, afer, iir a
That accordin.g to
vaiuable consi- creek, the waters of Ohio t'ii er.
der-Ation, his usual and customary allowance, made in this, as we~ll as
right to ihe
sorvey, *adas- other military surveys at that time. a considerable qysasgn heplat tiy oi land over and abov', 2000 acres, is containied
to

within the a;,tual boundaries. That in the yearl 1778
vaj a niinor, Michavl R'ohiuson. as
Mary, and who bad inteimarried

ser,
on liewhereup
Oibtalus 11whilst the sai(l lary
patent for the uardian of the'said

ith the Dfnindanot'
land inhis own with her mother, made a contra(t x%

am- ;and if,L wis, Joseph and Be'njamin Crai-'s, ibr the sal.' ofl tho'

up.!i a e-sutr-

,I

vey, itappear said 2000 acres of land survyed as aroresaid for th
that the gralt sifid Mary at the price of S0s. per acre, ainountiii- t)
be 30001. which was paid in the depreciated paper cuiUiV
Cfl'C
dor c, w,1' ;,, oi" Virgiliia and was of little or no value. That the saiW
equity sopport NMary wa- induced to affix her sigiiatire to an assinclai, tOr the
ment of the said
.
drst the yen-War post-date-d so

n

plat and certificate of survey, which
ai to beat the appearauce of its being

ex'cut'd wh:n she was of full age ; it) consequence of

which Lewis Craig obtained a patent tor the said land in1
hik owni name and has since couveyed a part thereof to
the said Josph and Benjamin. and under whom tho
oiher Defendants derive their titles. The payer if the
bill is to vacate the contract awl to decree a re-coni cyance of the land, and for general relief.
The answers of the Defendants, Lewis and Joseph
Craig's, admitthe making. ot'the survey, and that itcontains a considerable quantity of land within the boulaiies more than 2000 acres.
They admit, the contract with Michael Robinson for
the purchase of the said survey; but p,,);itively deny
that it wns made it) the year 1778, and aver that it was
made in 1779. They deny that the contract was for
2000 a(ros (of land at sos. per acre, but was for the
U,hole ssar'Ve' at the nrice of' 30001.

They also positive-

ly deny that the assignment on the plat and certiTicate of

FEBRUARY TERM 1814.
survey was pnst-dated )rthat any fraud, or misrepresen- vowr.s,
tation was practiced or used relative to the transaction & -JTHER$
"').

The answers of the other Defiendants are dee-med im- CRAIG
rnat.rial to the investigation of tne questions. arising in&OTHERS,
this case.

The cause was heirtl in tie Circuit Court upon the
bill, anwers, depositions and other proofs. The Court
decreed tlhe bill to be dismissed with costs; from which
decree an appeal was taken to this Court.
TAYLOn,for the .1ppelants.
On examination of the evidence exhibited, we are satisfie,l,
that the allegation, that the assignment was, made during the minority of Mary Frazer is not sufficiently supported to have authorized the Circuit Court to have decreed a re-conveyance. But we suppose the Complianants were entitled to relief in some shape for the surplus
lan1 contained within the snrvey ; either by a decree for
the re-conveyance of the surplus. by a p',cuniary compensation for it according to it- present value or by a pecuniary coRipensation according to the price at which the
land was sold, on which interest should be allowed.
No evidence is introduced of the terms of the sale,
'whether by the acre or in gross, except the survey, assignment, power of attorney and receipt before mentioned, from these it plainly appears that the parties contracted on a supposition that the quantity'of land sold
and purchased was 2000 acres.
The surplus of 700 acres (nearly one third of the
w'hole quantity supposed to he sold) cniot be considered as a small one, such as might arise from inaccuracy
ofinstrmentns, &c. and therecore within the contemplation of the parties.
The remote residence of the vendor, who had hut late.
ly attained full age when she sold, precludes the idea of
her having any information of the quantity of land to
which she was entitled, other than that which was deiived from the survey. On her part, therefire, and prohably on the part of the purchaser also, the contract was

SUPREME COURT U. S
vowLEs
& o rias
v.
CRAIG
&OTUeRS.

made tnder an evident mistake respecting the subject of
sale. "Pm.re is nothing" discoverable, in thr contract or
exhibits from whirh it can be. collected that the sal was
made without resp,)nQibility for the quantity,, the words,
nwre or less, almost universally used to designate such
an intent, are no where to be found.
The case presented is that 9f a contract made under
the itl ta e of inistake, inboth parties, as to a material
and importent part, without fraud or concealment on
eithr side.
Itis supposed that no difference exists between contracts- lor the s.le of lanis, and those of any other description. Tihe s.me principles apply to all. This doe.
trine is reco.nized in the opinion expressed by the
Court of appeals in Kentucky, in the case of Young
aganlst Craig. In delivering that opini,,n the Court
expressre itself as follows: ,,The q jestion in this
case is whether Craig who had sold to Young a tract
of-and" containing in its botindaries a surplus, has
a right to recover such surplus, or incase it cannot be
had, a compensation therefor in money. There is no
novelty or pecliarity in the principles upon which
questions of this s.ort depend. In contracts of this
kind the same good faith- i3 reqtired, and the same
responsibility attaches to its violation, which law and
reason priseribes in every description of contracts. If,
thrwigh frauid or gross and palpable mistake, wore or
less land should be conveycd than was in the contemplation of the seller t)part with. or the purchaser to receive, the inijured paty wo.uld be entitled to relief in
like manner as he wbuld be for an injury produced by
a similar cause in a contract of any other species."
The same opinion also establishes the principle that in
sales in graqs as -.v,ll as in sales by the acre, if the parties have contracted under manifest error as t quantity,
the party injn.ed is entitlel to relief, unless indeed, the
surplus or d,,ivit wAs sjnall, not more than usual in such
cases, and of course supposed to be within the contemplation of the parties. In that case it is true the Comrt
ref ised tor decree compensation for the surplus land sold,
beca'tse it appeared plainly to have been the intention of
tie parties to risk the gain or loss, and because the sur-

FEBRUARY TERM 81.

375

plus was not more than usual in sucli sales.* In the vowres
case of Young v. Craig, the Couit appears to have & OTHERS
T.
adopted the principle laid down b Pothier inhis treatise on obligations, ch. I, art. 3, s. 1, tit Error,and also CRAIO
1y the writers on natural law, "rthat an error about a &OTHERS.
thing, or about its quality, uponprospect of which a man
-

CThe opinion of the Court 9f appeala in Kentacky in the ease of YOSG V.
CnAI, was as follows :
The question in this case is whether Craig who had sold to Young i tract
of land containing in its boundaries a surplus, has a right to recover such buretor in rooney.
plus, or in case it cannot be had, a compensation thei
There is no novelty or peculiarity in thd principles upon which questions of
this otM depend. In contracts o" this kind the same good faith is required.
And the same responsibility ataches to its violftion, u hich law and reason
prescribe in every description ofcontract.
If through fiaud, or gros and palpable mistake, more or less land should be
tmp on of the seller to part with ot the purconveed than wasin the
chaser to receive, the itJored party would be etitled to relif in like rmlner
ashe w-uld h:e
foran ithry produced by a similar cause in a couttact of any
other species.
In this case however there is no evidence of fraud; and the only gruad,
front uhich an inlerei ce can bu dcduced that there was such a mistake as
-would juify the intesfereitce of the Court for the purposeof correction, is the
Surplus cowaied in the boundaties described by the deed. Whether this
geoud he safficient to justify such an inference depends upon the nature and
terms of the ottacL
Contracts for the sale ofland mayle considered of two descriptions. ist.
Where the sde is ofa spreifiv
quantits, which is usually denominated a.sale
ty the act'e, and tlly, where the sale is nf a specific tract by namt or desdriptio-, each party risking the quantity; and this latter, forsake ofbre%ity, is
sometimes called a sale in gross.
It is evident thatin a sale per acre, much less variation from the quantitv intended to be conveyed would affod evidence ofa mistake which would
jutif' the interposition "nfa -,urt to coercet it, than would be sufficient for
in atsale if the ttherdesetiption. Bt even in asale per acre, as
uo
ut
t
from the rough,tes and 'ivevenvss of the g-ound from the variation of irstru;ments and firomnthe (1ierent results that -AIlneees-rily be produced by diffierentsurveyorsopttaung uith -he Sant instruments, itiq impracticable to asceitainthe quanltity with pet feet preesion, a small deficit or surplus, howeser
exactly the parties may have itended to be confined to t specific quantity,
would not juatity an application to a Cmirt ofjutice for relief Iii many eases,
how(tver, ofsales of this sort, the plrdes lid not intend to be very s-rupulou.ly exact itA respect to the quantity. There was particularly in the sales
riade at an early perod ofthis country gleat liberality ofadmeaurement frequently allwed by the seller and expected by the purchaser. Where thlit
the surplus contained in the
was the case to authorize a conclusion fiomn
boundaries of a tract, that there wps a mistake of,nuantity, the surplus ought
to be gi eater than was usual in conveyances made v.bout the same period 'an4
with the same intention of allowing liberal admeasurement But asin some
sles of an early period, and in perhaps a great majority of those oft1 more recent date, such a liberality of admcaturement was not intended by the parliet
it would be obviously improper ad unjust to lay down any general rule as to
the rate ofsurpluses that wouldjustify an inference of a mistake ulch would
eserve a correctics. Each easemutdepend muchupon its own particultrcirthe Ireseut
cumstances. Whether such an ifrence would be authorized it,
.rmhr.
.asewere the sale in question per acre, and not ingro'n,,eed not he( d-te
d since we arm of opinion it is of the latter-descriptiort.

876

SUPREME COURT U. S.

vowLxs is iiduced to come to any agrecment, renders the agree
& oTHirS ment or bargain void,%for in such cae a man is not sup1,.
posed to have agreed absolutely but upon stl)posal of the
C .AG presence of such a thing or qualit), on which as on
&OTHERs. a necesgary condition, his consent was founded, and
--therefore, the thing or quality not appeati, g, the consent
is understood to be null awl ineffectual."
_Pzifendorfs
Lau' of.Miture and Vations, b. i, c. 3, s. 1.

On these principles as applied to this case the Complainants would be entitled to compensation, or the contract Niould be considered as void, unless it was in proof
that the surplus was not unusually gr(ert. and was not
more than may reasonabi) be supposed to have been !n
contenmplati6n of the parties. As the consideration of'
quantity does not appear to hay. bcen the operating niotive %-hichledto the contract though it certairly influenced the price, according to the principles establisl'ed
by writers on natural law, it would appear that the error of the parties rather afforded a groun1 for a decree
of compensation than for annulling the contract.
From an examination of the documents exhibited it
will clearly apppar that the parties contracted under an
opinion that the survey conotined only two thousand
acres, the survey itself specifies that quantity. The
I The deed of conveyance must be taken as conclusive evidence of the terms
of sale unless it had been shou n that lang'tzae not eompot ting with thw true
intention ofthe parties had betn inserted through fraud or mistake, ofr which
there-is not, the slightest indication in this case.
The deed describes the land by its boundaries and situation, and as "contain"1ing by su6vy fonr. hundred and L%enty-five apres, be the same noreor Ies%"
The Vla;n and'mostobvious meaning of the expressions "be the sarte Mre Or
less"3 that the parties wore to rin the risk of gain or los as there might
happen to be an excess or deiceue in the estimated qnanti'y. This it.is be.
lie'ed is the sense in which such an expression is unifi,rmly snderst.od by
both the learned and the unlearned. thisidea is n,,t repelled bi theexpres.
sion of the quantity of cres; oni the contrary it rather derives strength from
the nntmer in yhich -the quantity is mentioned, tat'it plainly indicates that
the expression of quantity was used at matter of description only and that it
weas th, intention of the parties no" to be confined to a precise" and specific
quantily.
We do not mean to be under'stood thatin a sale of this kit d tke surplus or
1
deficit might not e so great as to antltoriz, an inlere,,Ce that it had wru: produced by fraud or mistak, ; but in this v se , l.rt -h- (tiu at.d qesn'i wsa
4125 acres ant the lIrgest quantity whoh any subeqtvet suiuiw-v has made it 6
481 the surplfta does not appear so great as uot to %w'fj n 'the reass utble
limits ofa risking bnrgain ofthiskind. Sete in sflipo.'t oi this doutrine ...... Sugden 225, 6 -1 Call. 301. We are therefor, el opi, ion that the decree of the
Circuit Ccaur" in favor ofCraig waserroneous and must be reversed with costs.

FEBRUARY TERM 181t4,

377

power of attorney to Joseph Craig describes the land as vowLEs
2000 acres and the receipt of Michael Robinson for thf & OTHER
V.
last payment states it expressly to ljb in full for 2000
acres of land the property of Mary Frazer. There is coLG
not an expression used which shews an intention on &o-rncs.
either side to make, a risking bargain.
No eidence appears in the record to shew that military surveys do usually contain swpliis lands, and it is
suppised without such proof the Court cannot take judicial notice of such an allegation.
But if the Court should reco.-nize it. must it not also
be admitted th4t the surplus in this case (one third) is
much more than is usual. The.influence of error on the
contracting parties being proved, it lies on the Defendants to brin. thenselves within the exceptions stated
in the case of Young v. Craig, by the oxhibition of ,atisfaitory evidence on those points, this has not been
done.
If the Complainants are entitled to relief the next
enquiry is, how it sh,,uld be granted. The object or
the parties being a sale and purchase of 2000 acres of
l ld, the contract being made for that quantity only,
could Lewis Craig be conp..lled to receive and pay for
more? Let itbe supposed that be had made an improvident
bargain, that the lands were not worth the price he gave
or that since the sale they had greatly depreciated in
value, Mary Frazer or h,- representatives could, on no
principle or equity, take advantage of hier own error to
rcquire payment for a greater quantity of lands than
had c'niie within the contract, and Le%4is Craig might
reliieve minself by a conveyance of the surplus land.
As Lewis Craig was not exposed to the risk of depreciation in value, on principles of reciprocity Mary Frazer and her representatives should be placed in the same
situation. and should be entitled to a spccifc re-conveyance,
so far as it can be had without affecting the right, of
others. It appears from the proceedings that LeN~is
Craig is still in possesion and the owner of a part of
thi i land. and that Jos.ph Craig who was concerned in
the purchase, holds another part ; so far as these extend,
a specific re-conveyance may be decreed. As to the other
4-q
"VOI,. VPrF

SUPREMfE

COURT U. S.

VOWLEs D-fendants who appear to have ben purchasers, and
& oTaRS whw probably had nit notice of the latent equitable claim
of the Complainants so as to affect them, it is not
V.
contended that they can be compelled to convey. As to
VRAIG
&oTHERS. t'-o quantity deficient after the conve%ance of the lands
hell by Lewis and Joseph Craig, a decree for pecuniary compensatiin according to the present value, if
the principles before stated are correct, is the appropriate relief. If the Court should be of opinion that the
Complainants are entitled to their decree in respect to
the surplus laud, but should not consider the principles
before stated correct, as to the manner in which it shoild
be granted, no alt.'rnative seems to remain but that of
adopting the original price (said to have been 95 pr acre,
and from calculation appearing to have been so,) as the
measure of compensation. The purchasers having had
the use and received the rents and profits of the land
should, as an equivalent, be decreed to pay interest, and an
account should be decreed to ascertain the value of the
paper m iney on the 20th December, 1779, and the interest which has accrued.
The length of time which has been suffered to intervene may perhaps he considered as amounting to a waiver of the Complainants equitable right, and be made an
objection to a decree for 'relief in any shape.

In reply to this the following facts, which appear on
the record, are stated.
That the Defendants soon after their pnrchase removed to'Kentlcky, wher they continued to reside, and
that Mary Frazer and her re-,esentatives always resided in, or near Fredericksburgh, in Virginia.
BLDsoM, for the .qppeY._
Craig purchased Mary Frazer's interest, be it muck
ir be it little. Her interest was all lie purchased, and
all he could obtain. And as evidence of it she assigned
the plat and certiflcate of smuvey, that the patent might
issue to Craig for whateverthe survey contained. There
was no mistake here. f Craig has got more land from
the commnonwealth of Vir.ginia than he ought to bave had,
is Mary Frazer or her representatives to step into the

FEBRUARY TERM 1811.

place of the commonwealth to correct the error or the vowus
fraud? Or is she to step into Craig's place to defrau & OrHERF,
T.
that commonwealth or to take advantage of the error of
its officer because she once owned 2ooo acres of land CFAIO

which she has parted with? H'd shxe carved andgranted a&o'rRERS
definite interest out of her claim, retainiug a part, th-i question might lie differently settled. But in this case
she would be worse thana volonteer who cannot be compensated in equity. Sie \ dld be a volunteer malafide.
A Complainant in equity must recover on the strength
own title. It is not siflicient that
and soundness of hi!3
the Defendant is in the wrong; the Plaintiff must have
right.
If the claim of the Complainants to any part of the laln4
itselfwere to be sustained, whe.ie w-ould you begin on the
survey to correct the error? On wlich end, side, or corner? The beginning and ending corners of a survey are
arbitrarily designated bN the surveyor whni lie makes
out his plat and cefificat e: seldom or never corresponding with the tutiiai siages of process on the ground itself,
But as it was clearly the intention of the parties that
the whole -lhould be s,,ld, and as the evidence of the
vholie was transl'Orrv'd, tme utmost that the Complainants
could, inaly
n, Cut conscientiously ask, would be, that
the Deilentanis should reftund a part of the purchase
money, in proportion tothe surplus, with interest, which
must be reduced by the scale of depreciation.
Tonn, J. after stating the case, delivered the opinion
of tile Court as fullows
In the written arguments suhmitted by the parties, it
is adhnilted by the counsel for the App, llants that the
evidence ex! ibited, does not support the allegatitn in
the hill, that the a-signnient was made during the minority of Mar3 Frazer. Thiq admnission renders it un.
noessary tor Mi~e Court to go into a minute examination of tile evidence; it will be suffi, ient -to observ, that
tle testimon' is clear and satiufactury m3 this point;
and, therefore. there is no preteuim for setting nside the
contract and decreeing a rerconveyance of the land
But it is contended that the Complainants re entitled

SUPrEME COURT. U S.
vowizs to relief in sonic shape for the surplus land contained
& OTHERS %Nithinthe swrvey ; either by a decree for the re-conveyv.
altce of the surplus land ; by a pecuniary compensation
CRAIG Ihr it according to its present value; or by a pecuniary
s&o'i ErS. compensation according to the price at w hich the land
was sold, on which interest should be allowsed.
This argument assumes for its basis, that there existed a mistake as to the thing sold. If there was a
mistake, how did it originate, and NIo is injured thereby ? Was there a inistake? It may be enquired to what
quantity of land was Mary Frazer entitled by vii tue of
the governor's warrant issued in pursuance of the royal
proclamation ? To two thousand acres. How much
did site sell and receive pa3 ment for? r1A o thousand
acres. It would appear front this that she had solo and
received payment for as much land as she was entitled
to. How cones it, that this surplus was included in
the survey ? From tlhe fraud, dsign, ignorance or
negligence of the survey'or. W -ho is defraued or inju& d thcrebj ? The commonwealth of Virginia, and
not Mary Frazer. For -%hat is it asked that comapensation shall be made? For land which, by the fraud,
design, ignorance or negligence of the surveyor, Mary
]Frazer might by possibility have been entitled to. Was

the sale of this survey of a speciflc quantity, at a certain
price per acre? or was it a sale of a specific tract?
The bill alleges it was of the first description ; the answers deny it, and say it was of the latter. There is
no pl'oof to support the allegation in the bill, unless
fr) the sur~e3 , a pow.er of attorney, and the receipt
for the purchasq money, it should be infei.'ed, that as
they relate to 2,000 acres of land, only that quantity
was intended to be included in the sale. But this proof
is conceived to furnish a very opposite conclusion, the.
description,and designation.of the tract of land sold, not
as part of a tract, but an entire tract. The answers,
being supported by the assignment, that it was a sale
of the whole survey, and being also responsive to an allegation as well as to an interrogatory in the bill, must
be taken as true and conclusive. When an assignment
is made of a plat and certificate of survey, the purchaser takes it subject to the risk of its containing a
less quantity than is expressed on its face, and should
it contain more he is intitled to it. In the case of "mng

FEBRUARY TERM 18it.
,v. Craig, decided by the Court of Appeals of Kentucky, voWi.ns
(a copy of which'has'been furnished and relied on by & OTUlIS
each party) the Court say, "there was, particularly
v.
6 in thesales made at an early period of this fouzTry, CRAIG
great liberality of admeasurement frequently allowed &OTiERS.
"by the seller and expected by ihe purchaser. Where
"this was the case, to authorize a conclusion, from the
"surplus contained in the boundaries of a tract, that
"there was a mistake of quantity, the surplus ought to
"be greater than was usual in conveyances made about
'6 the same period."
Now it appears from a statement
in the bill, as well as from the general history of the
country, that it was usual and'customary to make considerable allo%iatice in military surveys; and it is not
showc that the surplus in this is greater than in othey
surveys made about the same time. Again, in thesame
case, the Court proceed, "r it would be obviously im"proper and unjust to lay down any general rule as to
",the rate of surplus that would justify an inference of
, mistake which would deserve correction; each case
't must depend upon its own particular circumstances"whether such an inference would be authorized in the
"present case, were the sale in question per acre and
"not in gross, need not be determined since we are of
• opinion it is of the latter description." If this reasoning be correct as to conveyances, it will apply with
redoubled force to assignments of plats and certificates
of survey, where the purchaser takes it subject to the
risk of its containing less than it specifies.
Mary Frazer or tiz Complainants can be considere4
in no other view, than mere volunteers mnalafide, and of
course not entitled to the aid of a Court of Equity,
It seems, as a necessary consequence, if the Complainants are not entitled to the sirrplus land, they are not
to compensation in either of the other modes contended
for. Where there is noiight there can be no claim to
compensation sustained.
Decree affirmed with costs.

