SUPREME COURT U. S.
It is ordered that the Claimant nave leave to make
further proof, by affidavits, as to the following points:

THE
MARY,
STA'FORD,

MASTER.

1. As to his own citizenship.
2. As to the names of the heirs of general Fisher
whoare irterested in the property, the places of their
residence, and their national character.

3. As to the time when Mr. Nanning J. Visscher
went to England ; the objects which he had in view in
going thithler; how long ie resided there ; when the
cargo claimed by him was purchased ; and when he reT
turned to the Unit(d States. And,
4. As to the instructions which the Paul Jones had on
hoard'at the time of the capture of the Mary ; and particularly, whether the instructions of the president of
the 28th August, 1812, had been delivered to the captain, or had come to the knowledge of the raptain at
the time-of the capture; or whether the Paul Jones had
been in port after the 28th of August, 1812, and before
the capture.
It is further ordered, that the captors be also at liberty to make further proof as to these several, matters.

1814.
Feb.

15th.

TIE UNITED STATES
ov"

i96o BAGS OF COFFEE.

. Tsenf....WA5uHNGTON, J.
THIS was an appeal from the sentence of the
Circuit Court for the district of Maryland, which restored a quantity of coffee which had been seized and
uoni"the
course act of libelled for violating the non-intercourse act of March
Marc 1s,
1st, 1809, vol. 9, p. 243, § 4, L 5.
1800, tke
'flhcorfeTure
o1 'gods, for

place upon the

uornuiss1on of The Claimants in the Court below alleged, by way of
the ,feuce,ne
.i(? %61ds a plea, fhat the coffee was regularly entered and the duties

FEBRUARY TERM 1814.
secured according to law, after which, they became the v. sTr.&Es
T.
purchasers for1 valuable consideration. They also denii960 BAGS
ed that it was imported contrary to law.
or

The United States demurred to that part of tie plea coFFEw.
which states the purchase, &c. and took issue upon-that ---

part of the plea which denies the illegal importatbon. subsequentle
to a innocent
By the sentence of the district Court the oemur'er was purchaer, althere.
s thoughhave
; which sentt'nce wa}may
overruled, and the coffee restored
•
•
affirmed in the Circuit Court, and the United States ap- -,i a regular
permit for
pealed to this Court.
landing the
goods, And al-

The cause was elaborately argued, by the .ttorney tbough the dahave
General, PINKN/Y, ,]Or the United States, and by BoYn ties my
paid.
been
and HARPER, for the Claimants, at last term, and again

at this.
The words of the statute, which create the forfeiture,
are : ti That wheneter aiiy articles, the importation of
"which is prohibited by this act, shall, aft r the 20th
" of May next, be impolted into the United States,"
" all such articles" ,' shall be forfeited."
PINKNEY, late ,Attorney General for the United States.

Two objections have been made to the claim of the
United States, for this forfeiture.
1. That the right of the United States does not vest
until seizure and condemnation, and
2. That the United States are bound by. the act of
their officer in receiving the duties and pertmitting the
goods to be entered.
1. The forfeiture occurs at the moment of committing
The statute says -,'henever the act is done,
the thng shall he forfeited. No otlhr time is mentioned. The seizure is the consequenzee of the forfeiture.
not its cause. The thing is first forfeit,,d. and then
seized. The forfeiture iimediately follows the offence.
The seizure is merely to ascertain the fact. This is the
plain construction, or rather the letter of tl6 statute.
the offence.

There is a distinction between forfeitures at common

SUPREME COURT U. S
U. sTATES

v.

law, and those accruing under a statute.
351, Un'tited States v. Grundy 4 at.

3 Cranc,

1960 B.AGS

OF
In that case the Ch. Justice said, "6Where a forfei.
co-FnE. , ture is given by a statute, the rules of the common
....
" iaw may be dispensod 'with, and the thiig forfeited
"may either vest immediately, or on the performance
-of some particular act, as shall be the will of the legislature. This must depend upon the construction of
, the statute." The reason why the Court decided in
that case that the right to the ship did not vest in the
United States immediately upon taking the false oath,
Was, that the United States had an alternative, either to
take the vessel or its value, and until the United States
had made their election, the right did not vest.

But there are two cases at common law, where the
forfeiture relates back to the tie of the oflen-e and
avoids intermediate alienations.-deodand, and qicide.
So also in the case of felony adjtfight. So also in all
casts where the punishment for the offence is the forfeiture of,the thing by which the offence was committed,
or where the punishment cannot be inflicted on tile per(011.
In treason and felony, the frf,,iture of personal
chattels is not the punishment but a corollary, or consequence of the disability imposcd oi the person. But
in regard to lands, the fofeiture relates to the time of
the offence committed. Wth regard to purchasers the
rule is caveat emptor. This is said to be a hard Case,
but there are other cases equally heard dpending on
the same rule. If.goods are deposited with a merchant
to keep, and he sell them, unless in market overt, (and
we have, n market overt in this country) the sale is
void and the owner may recover them from the purchaser who bought them without notice. This too is a
hard case, but it is every days practice.
To show that the forfeiture attaches at the moment
of the offence committed, he cited T'P. 11.{j., Wilkins
v. Despard. Salk. 223 4k iZ Xod. 92, I1bert T. Withered. i T. R. 25-2, Lockyer v. Offley.
. As to the second point, he said it was impossible'
to contend that the United States were bomind by their
officer's ignorance of the fact of the forfeiture when he
received the duties and granted the permit.

FEBRUARY TERM i8i.

40i

BOYD, contra.

Lt. STATES
"V.

The demurrer admits that the coffee wa properly 1960 BAGS
entered, that the duties were paid. and that there was a
oF
bona fide sale and transfer of the coffi'e, for a valuable coFFEE.
consideration, beforessizure. A fiafeiture-cannot over..
reach a bona fide sale to third person. That this is
the rule at the common Mw is clearly proved by the very learned and elaborate argument ofjudge Winchester
in giving his opinion in the case of the lntwihy
uangin,
('3 Cranch. 356) and the principle has been recognized
by this Court in the same case (3 Cranch, 350, United
States v. Grundy and al.) A for'eiahre by statute is not
more operativethan a forfeiture at common law. There
is no expression in the statute to justify the distin'ction.
The common law say., whenever a man shall commit
treason or felony he shall forfeit his goods and chattels.
to the kiug.
Boa fide purchasers are favored at common law. 10
Ves.jr. t0 i. exparte Ed'wards-iEast, 91, 95-2.Esi. .'.
P. Ca. 731-t2.1fod. 92-2 Craneh, 390-. 3 Granch, 356--6 Crqnch, 133-5 Bac. ab. 229. The forteiture must be,

followed by seizure and condemnation before the property
can vest in the United States. This prin'iple has been decided by this Court in the St. Domingo cases, where the law
being temporary and having expired after condemnation
in the Court below and before hearing in this Couit, the
property was restored, which could not have been the
case if the property was vested in the United Stakcs oy.
the commission of the offence. If the title of the United
States was complete at the tine of the offence, and if
the seizure was merely to ascertain the fact, the expiration of the law could not divest that title out of the United States, and this Court must have affirmed the sentence of condemnation. Yeaton and at. -v. the United
States, 5 Cranch. 281.. If the United States had not
discovered the offence for three years, the act of limitations would have barred their claim. 2 Cranch, 3M6,
Adams v. Wood. If the coffee had been destroyed, th
United States could not have recoi'ered. the duties, because the goods were not legally imported.
2. The United States are estopped from claiming the
property by the acts of their officer, in granting the perSt
VOL. VIIM.

SUPREME COURT
V.

STATES

T.

LT. S.

mit and receiving the. duties. The acts of officers are
to be favored. 16 Vin. 11-1, tit. Officers. 17 Fin. 153.

1960 BIGS
OF
The permit to land the toffee, and the receipt for the
coFFsE. duties are conclusive evidence to all the world, except the
illegal 'importer, that the coffee was lawfully imported.
If a Claimant encourage the vendee to buy, his claim
shall be postponed'to that of the purchaser. Sugden on
Fendors, 480. Acceptance of rent is an admission of
title. 18 Vin. 149. So here acceptance of the duties
is an fdmission of a lawful importation. A purchaser
is only hound to use reasonable diligence. He has only
to ask whether there be a regular permit to land the
goods, and whether the duties have been paid. If the
officers were mistaken, and have given evidence of a
good title, their mistake ought not to injure an innocent
purchaser. ,2 Br. C. C. 389-5 T- R.
-118
T. R, :603 Cranch, 389, 390.

The inconveniences of such a rule would be intolerable--the utmost prudence could -not rrevent a man from
loss.
In personal chattels, possession is the criterion of
title, 13 Ves. jr. 121.
IIARPER, on the same side.

This is a case of bona fide, purchase, for a valuable
consideration "withioutnotice. It is presumed to be without notice, because the contrary does not appear. The
only case suppoged to be against us is that of Roberts v.
TVithered, AMod. 191. 12 JIMod. 92, Salk. 223. That
was a case of detinue against the wrong-doer. There
was no intrvention of a purchaser without notice.
The relation of the. frfeiture to the time of the offcnce
is never suffered to over-reach an innocent purchaser
without notice. Relatimn is a fiction of law, which is
never allowed to do injustice. Where a party not only
conceals his claim, but gives out that the title is clear
he- shall be postponed. The permit was evidence on
which the Claimant had a right to rely. No one can
take advantage of his own act to injure another.
As to the common law doctrine of forfeiture, the

FEBRUARY TERM isi.
eases of treason and felony furnish the general rule; U. STATES
IV.
the cases of ueodand, suicide and flight are exceptions.
In treason and felony the forfeiture is admitted not to 1960 B.A.Gx
OF
relate to the fact committed. In the case of deodind,
the exception to the rule is founded on the notoriety (if COFFEE.
the fact. In the case of suicide the reason for the exception is that there is no other mode of punishing the
offonce, and flisht is an admission of the fact, and a
withdrawing himself from punishment. Notoriety, confessim. and the inability to inflict other punishment
are the grounds of these exceptions to the general rule.
In treason and felony, if the goods are sld bona fide
without notice, the forfeiture relates back only to the
conviction.
Unimpeached possession is evidence of
unimpeached title. This principle appies to forfeitures
under a statute as well as to those at common law.
The rule caveat emptOr, is never applied to secret liens.
PINKNEY,

in reply.

The letter of the act of congress is plain and express.
The forfeiture is the necessary and immediate consequence of the offence. No other time is mentioned.
He did not mean to say that the title of the United States
is consummated until condemnation. But the forfeiture
attaches by the commission of the offence, and overreaches all intermediate acts. This doctrine is necessary for the public good. otherwise the rights of the
United States would be defeated by fictitious sales, the
fraud of which it -%ould be difficult, perhaps impossible,
to detect. The forfeiture of the thing, by which the
offence is committed, is the punishment itself, not a
mere consequence of a disability. It passes to the purchaser cur onere. Where legal rights have attached
the rule caveat emp.4or always applies, but never to e-table liens without notice.
As to real estate, the relation in treason and felony
was to the offence committed-why did not the argumeit ab inconvenienti control the rule in that casePlowden, 260, 290.
In the case of deodand-a horse kicks a man: before
the man dies the horse is sold-the man dies, the horse
is forfeited as deodand.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
Where is the notoriety? The true reason. is, that it
is a forfeiture of the offending thing. In felony, nothing
1960 D3AGS but sale in rnrket overt can prevent the relation of the
o - forfeiture to the time of the offence. If felo de se give
corFizE. himself a mortal wound, and before his death convey
his -state, and die, the conveyance is void. So in the
case of flight after felony. The law looks principally
to the thing for punishment.
V. STATES

'v.

The general rule of the law of England is that a purchaser of personal goods, is not safe unless he purcha.ed in market overt.
If the United States could be estopped by the acts of
their officers, th6 plea is as good in behalf of the illegal
importer as of the innocent purchaser. The purchaser
was as much bound to know of the offence as to the collector. But the collector had no authority to waive the
penaly, and therefore cannot be 1resurned to have waived it. If he had even given a release of the forfeiture it
would have been void.
The argument ab iftconvenienti, is rather an argument ad misericordiam. If there be hardship in the
case, application should be made to the secretary of the
treasury who has power to relieve.
In the St. Domingo cases, the law had expired, without an, provision being made to enforce the penalty in
existing cases. After the expiration of the law the
Court had no authority to condemn; and the appeal
anniIled the sentence of the Court below.
.March 15th. (MARsHALL,

Ch. J. being absent,)

JOHNSON, J. delivered the opinion of ,the Court as

follows:
This case has been argued very elaborately and has
been a long time under consideration. But from the decision which the Court has at length come to, its merits
are brought within a very.limited compass.
We are of opinion that the question rests altogether
on the wording of the art of Congress: by which it is

FEBRUARY TERM in&.

4o

apresdly declared that thp forfeiture- shall take place U. STATEs
upbn the commission of the off .ce. If the phraseologyy
T.
mere such as, in the opinion of the majority of the Court. to 1960 BAG$
admit of doubt, it would then be proper to resort to anaOF
logy and the doctrine of forfeiture at common law, to as- cozF.E.
sist the mind in coming to a conclusion. But from the
view in which the subject appears to a majority of the
Court all assistance derivable from that quarter becomes
unnecessary.
It is true that cases of hardship and even absurdity
may be supposed to grow out of this decision, but on the
other hand if by a sale it is put in'the power of an oliender to purge a foi'feiture, a state of-things-not less absurd
will certainly result from it.
'When hardships shall arise, provision is made by law
for affordiigrelief under'authority much more competent
to deeide on such cases, than this Court ever can be.
In the eternal struggle that exists between the avarice,
enterprize and combinati ins of individuals- bn the one
hand, and the power charged with the admifiistratlOi of
the laws on the other, severe laws are rendered necesgsmry to enable the executive to carry into effect the men.
sures of policy adopted by the legislature. To them belongs the right to decide on what event a divesture of
right shall take place, whether on the commission of the
offence, -the seizure, or the condemnation. In this instance we are of opinion that the commission of thu offence marks the point of time on which the statotary
transfer of right takes place.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Maryland on the
klemurrer, is therefore reversed, and the cause remanded
that the issue in factinay be tried.
SToRY, J. The decree which hasjust been pronounced

by a majority of the Court is decisive of the case of the
Mars, which is nowpending in this Court, and my decision
therein must be reversed. The opinion which I there
held and the reasons which support it, are disclosed on
the record, and though the discussion in this Court has
not increased my confidence in that opinion; nevertheless as I am-not yet satisfied of its incorrectness, and two

SUPREME COURT U. S.
U. STATES of my brethren concur in

Iv.

ity I shall make no aipology for

introducing it in this place.

1960 BAGS

oF
COFFEE.

It is as follows:
. The present ififormation proceeds for a forfeiture of
the brig Mais upon the allegation that the brig departed from ther United States bound to a perziitted port
without giving bond pursuant to the act of the Ist of
,March 1809, ch. 91, § 16. There arc other counts in
the information which I need pot now consider, because
it is admitted there was a forfeitur6 under the first
count, and the answer of the present Claimant sets up,
as a justification of his title, that lie ig a bona fide purchaser for a valulable consideration and without notice of
the offence; and it is admitted that this justification is
true in point of fact; and that there have been no lachw.
either as to the United States, or as to the purchaser.
The question presented to the Court is, whether property, which has become forfeited to the United States,

and afterwards, and before seizure, while remaining in
the possession of the vendor, is sold to a bona fide purchaser for a valuble consideration without notice, is protected against the claim of the United States.
Tliis question is peculiarly delicate and interesting in'
whatever way it is considered. On the one hand it
strikes at the root of almost all the forfeitures in rem
which the legislature has provided to guard the revenue
laws from abuse ;-and if the decision be against the
United States, it may open a wide field for fraud and
colorable transfers, to the encouragement of offenders.
On the other hand, if the secret taint of forfeiture be indissolubly attached to the property, so that at any time
and under any circumstances within the limitations of
law, the United States Mbay enforce their rights against
innocent purch!asers, it is easy to foresee that great embarrassments will arise to the commercial ipterests of the
country; and no man, whatever may be his caution or
diligence, can guard himself from injury and perhaps
ruin. Conqiderations of this nature have pressed heavily
upon my mind, and I have therefore been solicitous to
avoid a discussion involving so much public as well as
private importance. I could have wished to hive reserv-

FEBRUARY TERM iS1.
ed this question for the bonsideration of all the judges V. STATBS
in the highest tribunal, that in forming my opinion I
V.
might have had the light reflected from their minds, and I960 BAGS
the benefit of their acknowledged learfiing. The parties
oF
have however seen fit to pursue another course, and [ coFFE..
shall meet the question as my duty requires without asking for shelter under any authority; though not without
extreme diffidence.
Before I proceed to the principle question, it will be
mecessary to clear the way by adverting to sadie considerations which have grown out of the argument on
each side. It should be remembered that this is not a
case -wherethe vendor 'was out of possession, and of course
where the law might infer a want of due diligence in the
purchaser. To such a case the makitn caveat emptor
would certainly apply. Nor is the present a case where
the sale was made at the first moment when the property
came within the jurisdiction or grasp of the United
States--for I should have little doubt that such ahurried
sale could hardly be the foundation of a solid title. Itis
not a case of volaptary giftor collusive transfqr which
would probably share the fate of all bounties in fraud or
exclusion of public rights. Jones -v.tshurst. Skin. 337.
It is admitted that the sale is banafide, for a valuable
consideration, and without any express or, implied notice. Further, the statute, on which the information is.
founded, has declared that the property shall be wholly
forfeited, if the offence be committed; but it has not declared at what time if shall take effect, to what time it
shall relate, nor whether it shall be incapabl of being
purged by subsequent events. The forfeitures under the
statute are to be distributed in the same manner as forfeitures under the collection act of 2d Marck, 1799, § 91,
by which informers and officers'of the customs, as well
as the government, may acquire vested interests ; and if
fallnws therefore that these interests, as to informers and
officers of the customs, cannot vest until their rigkts .arp
ascertained by seizure or condemnation.
it has been argued on the-part of the United States,
that th forfeiture is, by the statute, made absolute on the
commisston of the offence, and as it was competent for the.
legislature to enact such a law, the tbe cannot be dives-

SUPREIME COURT U. S.
U. STATES

v.
1960 B Gs
OF

cOiFFE.

ted by any subsequent event. That the cases of forfei
ture at the common law are not applicable because they
,Iupend upon thv qualification annexed to them by the
coMminon law, which makes thein conditional only, and
not absilute forfeitures, whereas the present statute has
annexed no qualification: "And infsupport of this distinction the opinion of the chief justice in the case of the
United States -v. Grundfi c4 al. 3 Cranch, 337, has been

quotcd where he says, (p. 350) 16 It has been proved
,that in all forfeitures accruing at common law, nothing
-vests in the government until some. legal step shall be
is taken for the assertion of its right ; after which, for
"many purposes, tihe doctrine of r.lation carries back
" the title to the commission of the offence, but the dis"t nction, taken by the counsel for the United States,
" between forfeitures at common law and those accruing
"under a statute, is certainly a sound one. Where a
"forfeiture is given by a statute the rules of the common
law iiay be dispensed with, and the thing forfeited
",may either vest immediately or on the performance of
6"some particular act, as shall he the will of the legisla" ture. This must depend upon the eonstruction of the
" statute."
I entirety subscribe to the doctrine here
stated by the
chiefjirstice. There can be no doubt that the legislature
axn'Vrovide that its forfeitures shall take effect differently from the course prescribed by the common law;
but tile question will always be: Ifave the legislature
so done ? If they have not, shall the rules of the common
law govern in the absence of any positive declaration?
It should be remembered 'also, that the chief justice is
here s ieaking in a case where the main question before
him rested ina considerable deogree upon the point whether the legislature had not givq i an election of remedy,
and suspended the vesting of any interest until the detei'mination'of that election. But I apprehend that the
vords of the chiWjustice by no means imply that when a
forfeiture- in rem is attac'hed to a statute offence, the
rules of the common law ar:e of course excluded. They
do not in my judgment import more than the opinion
which .1 have already expressed. Now in the case a;
bar, I canmnot perceive in the lang7uag6 of the legislature
any,systernati, exclusion of the comm'on law as to forfeitures, , They have declared no more than that the

FEBRUARY TERM i814.
eornmission of an act shall induce a forfeiture: and so . STATEs
has the common law; but the qu.stioii as to the nat.ure
T.
and extent of the operation of this forfeittir.- is no where, i960 6&,s
that I can perceive touched This :iw of tMe subject
oF
leads me to deny another position assumed by the c,.un- c' FE.
bel for the United States, viz. tlat the d,; trine of relation .has nothing to do with tile preseut ( ontroversy In
the progress of this examination. I think, if not area;iy
shewn, it will sufficiently appear tlhat the dot-trine of relation has a very powerful influence in every essential
view'of the subject
I will now con;ider the main question, which perhaps
may be divided into two branches.
i. What is the interest or right which attaches to
the government in trfeituiYes of property before any act
done to vindicate its claims I
.. What is the operation of such act done to vindkate;
its claims ; as to the offenders, and as to strangers?
1. As to the first point. In all cases at common law
where lands are forfeited for the personal offence of the
pa, y, I take the role to be finivwrsally true, that until
the offence is ascertained, by conviction and attainder,
no title v-sts in the sovereign.
Before that time the party is entitled to the possession.
anl prefits of his lands, and the government have no
vested right in them, either to enter or dispose of the
estate, 2 Inst. 18. Staund. P. C. 192. Nay, even after
attainder tin it office f,,und the slvoreign is consider:'d as
having but a possession in law, and an office is necessa7 to complete a title. Staumd. P. C. 198. The off,-nei. therefore, has until conviction full power and authority to alien his lands and to convey to the Iurcl.aser a
toiplete and legal, though defeasable seizin ; and unless
such conviction follow the offence the alienation is good
againqt all the world. For, as Bracton says (Lib. 2,
ch. t3, p. 30.) ;'ea vero, qum post feloniam facta sunt,
- semper valent and tenent nisi ftierit condemnatio subcc secuta, et si fuerit subsecuta, non valent.
If this be true, and there seems no reason to doubt it,
VOL. VIII.
52

SUPREME COURT U. S.
it follows that the estate of the olfender is rightful, that
V.
he has bothjus ad rem, and jus in re: 9nd consequently
1960 BAGS that the crown hath but a mere possibility which in no
oF
wise restrains the exercise of ownership over the properIt. STATES

COFFEE. ty.

See - 1. Cim. 382.

The same doctrine is also, in general, true as to like
forfeitures of goods and chattels. Bract: Lib. 2, ch. 13.
-Co. Lit. 391, a.--Saund. P. V. 193.-Id. 52.-2Inst.
48.-2 Hawk. P. C. .h. 49.-N.or do the cases of deodand.,
and suicide, form any exceptions, for the authorities all
concur that the forfeiture does not vest a property until
the fact is found of record. Foxley's case, 5, Co. 109.Hales v. Petit, Plowd. 260, 262. It has been supposed
that goods wvaived ve4ed ipso facto in the cr ,wn upon
waiver; but on a careful examination of the authorities
it will be found that the owner retains his full property
until an absolute seizure by the crown. Staund. prerog.
lib. 3, ch. 25, p. 186.-Fitz. .1b. Estray. 2. 21 Edtv. 4 ,
16. For all purposes of alienation and sale therefore
the property in goods and chattels remains in the owner
notwithstatyling the commission of an ofi nce subjecting
it to forfeitsre; and consequently he may convey a good
title agains every person but the crowxn, and against the
crown also unless in cases where the anterior relation
applies. Jones v. .Ashurst, $kinn. 357. I think tlkerefore it may be assumed as a settled principle, that in forfeitures for persoial offences, before I seizure or prosecution, the sovereign has no vested title.
Can the case be distinguished where the forfeiture is
made to ttaeh t,, the instrunmet it-self by means whereof
the offence is committed?
It seems to me that the most favourable cases -for the
United States, viz. deodands and waifs, conclusively
shew that no such distinction anciently prevailed, for
whatever may le the effi ct of relation, it is certain that
io property vested in the crown until seizure or inquisition. I infer therefore that no absolute property vested
in the United States in the c'use at bar, until actual seizure was mad', and the decision in the king's bench in
Lockyer v. qOffley, 1 T. R. 252, seems to me fully to support the inferenre. It has indeed been supposed by the
counsel for the United States, that Roberts v. W tlhewl, I

FEBRUARY TERM 1811.
Salk. .23.-i2JXId. 92, and Wilkins v. Despard, 5 T. 1. u. STATES
112, support a contrary doctrine. But on examination
T.
they appear to me to confirm it. In the firsi, the attion, 190 BAos,
was detinue for property forfeited under the navigation
oF
act of Charles 2d, and the Court held that the acitinf COFFEE.
will lay, because the bringingaction anwunted to a seizure.
In the latter case there. had been actual seizure made for
the forfeiture, and the sole question was if condemnation
were not necessary to divest the property of the 9wner.
If I ant right in the view which I have already taken
of the subject, there can be lit-le doubt that the title or
the United btates so far as affects third persons rests
mainly on the doctrine of relation; and that the counsel
for the United States must call in the aid Of the common
-law to enforce the present claim. For if no title vests
,until 6eizure, there must at the time of seizure be a title
inthe offending party capable of being divested and of
Vesting in the United States. But at the time of the
present seizure that title had been transferred to the pre.
sent Claimant and nothing was left in the vendor capa.
ble of transfer.
2. This leads me to the examination of the second
point, viz. What i the operation of the acts done by
the sovereign to vindicate V9 title by forfeiture ?
Atcommon law, in case of attainder for treason or felony the forfeiture oflands relates back to the time of the
offence comumitted'so as to avoid all intermediate changes
and conveyances. 4 B1. Com.481,487.-Co. Lit. 390, b.
ttaind. P. C. 192, but in general, in like cases the for.
feiture of goods and chattels relates back only to the
time bf conviction so that all previous changes and alien.
ations, and even bonafide gifts, are protected. &Bl. Com.
387.-Co. Lit. 391. ,Staund. P. C. 192. Perk. § 29.Skinn. 357. There are some cases in whicti the relation
is carried back to th, ,timeof the inquisition made; but,,
inless that of suicide form an exception, there is no case
where the relation is pressed beyond the time of the proserution. According to the decision in Plowden 260. a
felo de se Irfeits
o
all his goods and chattels, from the time
of comnmitting the act which occasions the death : and
the doctrine seems to be supported by Rex v. Ward, I.
Lcv, 8. The general ground assigned for itp is, that

4fz
V. sTATES

v.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

otherwise the offender would go unpunished, and it is
compared to the case of flight after felony. Now admit-

1960 BAGS tling that this is a solid reason, and a sufficiehit funda-

OF

tide fa- a legal adjudication,'it may well be .doubted if

COFF;E. tle doctrine, or the de(ision, in Plowden, required'the

-orleituro to relate back further than the death of the
party.
The case was that sir James Hales, the offender, was
joiit-tinant %ith his wife of a term of years ; and the
qm's o, made was whether after inquisition the forfeitore should not relate back so as to over-reach the
right of survivorship which accrued to th, wife.
Now one of the judges (Weston) held that the forfeiture Imould only hate relation to thc death, at i'hich
time the title of the -%ife accrued ; yet in this concourse
of titles, the-king's title by prerogative should be pr ferred. Plowd. 26,1,; and I find that lord Hale (I Hale,
V. C. 41!.) expresses great doubt whether, for all purposes, the relation could be carried back to the stroke
which occasioned the death. Be this case as it may, it
is the only exception to the general doctrine ; and inter
apices 3.ris; a case so .unjust as that which robbed an
"jfortunate woman not only of the moiety %hich vested
in her by survivorship from her husband, but of the
other moiety absolutely vested in her by grant, I am
glad to find is a judicial anomaly.
I have said that the case of afelo de se'forms the only
exception to the general rule.

There are authorities to

show that in case of flight for felony, the forfeiture, after
it is fmrnd hy inquisition, verdict, or indictment, relates
back to the time of tile flight so as to avoid all mesne

acts. Rex -v. We'endman, Cro. Jfac. 82. But I think thme
better o.inion, n iithstanding, is that it relates only
to the time of finding the flight. 'Co. Lit. S90. Staund.
T . C. 192, 5 Co. 109. b. Bro. Fotfeiture des terres, 119.
Id. Relation, 31. But it has been argued that admitting
the rule that the forfeiture of goods aid chattels in gezeral relates back to tile time of conviction, yet it is inapplicable to a case %%here a specific thing is declared
forfeited by law. for in such case the corpus delicti attaches to the timng in whose hands soever it may come;
and the .case of- deodand, put by counsel, in Plowden,
262. is.citeil in illustration. "6If my horse 6trike a wan,

FEBRUARY TERM 1814e.
91 and afterwards I sell my horse, and after that the
",man dies, the horse shall be farfeited." I do not find

U. STATh

v.

any authority to 'ull-port this position, alhough it is 1960 BAxt
oF
cited as law in I L'-wk. P. C. ch. !26, § 7, and in terms
de la ley, deodand. It seems a peculiar case growirz coFFE.E.
--out of the avarice of the church and the superstition of
the lavity in ancient times. The distinction seems also
countenanced by the Court in Lockyer -v. Offlej, I T. R.
252. '1lie counsel for the Plaintiff there argued that
the ship was forfeited the moment the smugglinN was
conlmittvd, even though she had afterwards come into
the hands of a bonai flde purchaser ; and Mr. justice
Willes in deliverin. the opinion of the Court, in alluding
to the argument that the forfeiture attached the moment the act was done. said. ,,it may be so as to sorge
pcp pses, as to prevent intermediate alientions and
",incumbrances." To be sure this expression carries
with it a pretty strong implication; but in the same
case, returning to the argument, the same learned judge
sa s, ' I do not know that it has been ever so decided"t imay depend upon circumstances, such as length of
"possession, laches in seizing or other matters:. And
the decision of the Court went ultimately upon other
grounds. I must, therfore, consider the authqrity- as
not fairly extending to this point, and indeed as rather
leaning the other way. On the other hand, the case 'of
Lord and villain has been cited from Co. Lit. 118, § W17.

to show that even where a right to seize property exists in the Lord, it is not perfected by seizure so as to
over-reach prior alienations; for until seizure it is said
that lie has neitherjus in re, norjus ad rem, but a mere
possibility. And the conclusion drawn from this example is not materially aff'cted by the consideration
that a contrary doctrine prevails in the case of the
sovereigr, (Id. § 118) hecause the reason assigned is
perfectly consistent with it; viz . that the property is iii
the so-vereign before any seizure or office. -I do not
think much reliance can be placed upon analo.ies borrowed from the -feudal tenures, because they were gaverned by peculiar and technical niceties, the reasons
of which have long since ceased, and perhaps cannot
iiow be well understood. But if the principle of the
case put be that where the absolute property is not vested before the alienmtion, a subsequent seizure will not
ovoid such alienation if made bonafide, it is directly ap
jilicable to the case at bar.

SUPREME COURT U S.
U. STATES

v.
1960 BAGS

oF
COrvFit.

I have already endeavored to show that the aboohlt
property did'not vest in the Unitvd States until seizure;
and 1 think it would be a bold assertion that the United
States coull, betre such seizure. have conveyed the
property to a purchaser, or have clothed it with a national character. I consider a passage in lord Hale's
treatise on the customs as corrobOJrating the view mhich
I have already taken of this case. He says, "6Though
" a title of forfeiture be given by the lading or unlading,
", the custom not being paid, yet the kng's title is not
"complete, till he hath judgment oJ record to ascertainhis
"title, for otherwise there would be endless suits and
"vexations; for it may be tien or twenty ,years hence
' that there might be a pretence of forfeiture now in"curred."
Harg. Lazo tracts, 26. According to lord
Hale even s izure would not be sufficient to fix the title
in the kin8; but it must be consummated by a judgment
of record.
But the point of difficulty is to decide whether the
United States had not such an inchoate title as, conriected with a subsequent seizure, would, by a retroactive effect, defeat the intermediate purchase. Now it is
precisely in this view that the case of villain may ad,
iit an unfavorable distinction; for until seizure the
Lord has not even ani inchoate title, but a mere possibility. And though the property is in the like case of the
sovereign said to be in him without seizure or office,
yet I apprehend the title is not consummate until seizure or office; for until that time it could hardly be
held that a purchaser under the villain, or eVen the
villain himself had a tortioi,s possession and use of the
property. The case of villenage then, even supposing
it to apply, does not go quatuor pedilms with the present.
The ,case of .lttorney General v. Freeman, Hard. [01,
has also been relied on by the Claimant. In that case
the party, after outlawry and before inquisition, made
a bonafide lease, of his lands ; and it v as held that the
f'rfeiture did not over-reach the title of the purchaser.
But I do not think that much reliance can be placed
on this case, because it turned on a settled distinctionthat until inquisition the king has no title in the real
chattels oc freehohls of the outlaw; but in personal
chattels the title ls in the, king without inquisition. :1

FEBRUARY TERM 1814.
Ld. Ray. 305. Salk. 39.,.

iZ Nod. 76.

And the re- u. STATES

latron does not extend beyond the time tof
the comnif nceIV.
7ment of the title. The case ol the Anthony .langin, 3 1960 BAGS
Crancti, 336, n. before Mr. justice Winchester,.is the
oF
enly other authority that I recollect, which has been coFFE.
thought materially to bear upon the question. r entertain the most entire respect for the opinions of that truly able and learned judge: and although tihe decision of
that case did not rest upon the present question, it is
but justice to acknowledge that it has thrown great
light on the subject, and enabled us all to meet the stress
of this cause with more certainty than could otherwise
have been done. It was very clearly the opinion of the
learned judge that a seizure did not relate back to the
time of forfeiture so as to over-reach an intermediate
bona fide conveyance; and he has certainly offrred
cogent reasons in support of that opinion. , But after a
diligent e-amination of the au' horities cited by him, I
am well satisfied that the point has never been solemnly adjudged, and must now be decided upon Drinciole.
It seems to be a rule founded in common vnse, as
well as strict justice, that fictions of law shall not be
permittv d to work any wrong, but shall be used iutres
magis vale at quant rereat, 3 Rep. 28, b. and this rifle,
so equitable in itself, seems recogizcd in flie common
law. 13 Rep. 21. 2 Tent. 200. And in respect to the
doctrine of relation, this rule has been admi:ted in its
fullest extent in civil cases. Bro. Relation, 18. 1 H. 7,
17. Bro. Debt, 139. 6 Rep. 76, b. 3 Rep. 28. b. For
it has been repeatedly adjudged that r'-lations shall
never work an injury, "i and shall never be strained to'
"the prejudice of a third person who is not a privy or
a party to the act:" and further, that ",in destruction
"of a lawful estate vested, the law will never make any
"fiction."

3 Rep. 29.

2 Pent. 200.

It is true, as we have already seen, that a different
rule prevails as to forfeitur~s of lands in treason and
felony, founded probably on feudal principles, or the
barbaric character of the times; yet even as to cases
of treason and felony a striking distinction is admitted
in favor of goods and chattels; and mesne acts before
conviction or inquisition are suffered to retain their actual validity.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
V. STATES

v.
1960 BAGS
oF
CoFFEE,.

Looki-; to the vast extent of commercial transrers,
the favor with which navigation and trade are fostered
in modern tunes, and tile extreme dhfliculty of ascertaining latent defects of titl, it seems difficult .to resist
the impression that the present is a case which rquires
the application of the milder rule of the, law.
If the prilcipler contended for by the government be
admitted in its full extent, it will be found very difficult
to bound it. A bale of goods which is once con aminated with a forfeiture will retain its noxious quality
through every successive transfer. evun until it has assumed under th- hands of the arlizan its uhi ,iate application to domestic use. Yet such a pesitin wo .ld
strike us all as monstrous. If we say that the forfiture shall c'ease with the change of the idontity of the
w:hole package, as such, still an intrinic d flit ulfy remains. The oloject of the government would be completely evaded by the offinder, aud the innocent purchaser would sink uider the pressure of frauds which
he could never know, nor by diligence avert.
On the whole I have come to the result, not however
without much diflidence of my own opinion, that a forfeiture attached to a thing, couveys no p.operty to the
government in the thing, until seizure made or suit
brought. That previous to that time the ownr hag the
exclusive. right of possession and propl.rty. though the
government may be considered as haviug a, iclhoate
title, or possibility. That against the off'-ndr or his
representatives, upon seizure or suit, the tile by operatimi of law relates back to the ti ne of the off,-nce so as
to avoid all ilrsne acts ; but as to a lnamfide l)urchaser
for valuable consideration and withivut notice of the ofience, the doctrine of relation does not apply so as to
divest his legitimate title.
Considering, as I do, that this question is of very
great importance, I trust that it will recoive the decision of the hi0ghest tribunal ; and I shall not feel Immbled, if upon better examination a diflf rent doctrine
shall prevail by the judgment of that Court. I I threfore adjudge and decree that the decree of the District
Court in the premises be affirmed.

