SUPREM

COURT IT. STATES.

GRIFFITH v.FRAZIER.

Present....A

the Judges.

18t4,
Feb.

Term

Feb.

9th

ERROR to the Circuit Court, for the Soudli Caro- S ]on. -s a
qualified ex-

lina district,

This was an action of trespass quare dlun

equtor is ca-

fregit, pcising othe
tble
exera
au73rought by the Plaintiff in the Circuit Court (who was thority vith
he has
also Plaintiff in error,) to recover a tract of land lying in beene,invested
the district of South Carolina. and in the possession of.the bh ±he' testaDefendant, to which the Plaintiff asserted a title derived tor, that anthority cannot
From a certain Joseph Salvadore.
be conferred,
either with or

WiIhout lamita.
Both parties admitted that Salvadore waslegally seized tie
by the

of an estate, in fee, in the land in dispute. It appeared Court of ordifurther, that Salvadore had executed several bonds in other
nary, on
any
person.
favor of a certain Daniel Bordeaux ; that Bordeaux And if ,uing
such capability
brought an action against Salvadore on these bonds,, and
I
of the execuobtaineil thereon d judIgment by default, which was en- toe, the ordi.
tered up and signed on the 80th of August, 1786 ; that nalY grant adtr er
n,, further steps
Ja were
*, -,- taken
t¢ -~o g inthe caise,
t*, 9 untilL the' 2d m1iiition,
ei h
abo~lute*
of January, 1787, when an execution issued thereon, or temporary
w
a"other
anrl as lodged in the sheriff's office on the osame
t
•day; to
person,
that
that Salvadore departed this life on the 029th of Decen- erat is at"o
ber, immediatel" preceding. Salvadore left a will and lutety void.
Ifrendered
a judgment
his three be
---atwo or three codicils,• by which he appointed
daughters, a certain William Stevens, and a certain gainst one as
Josehl Dacosta, his executors. All these persons were executor who
absent, out of th' state, excepting Dacosta, who proved toe, it do e
the will and codicils. and regularly qualified as execu- bind the estate
testitor,
tor thereto, on the 5th of Jani'ary, 1787: he continued Ofthe
ad an e-eto reside in the city of Charleston, South Carolina, un.. cuon upon
a judg.
til some time in the year 1789, when he went to Savan- ic.h
vient Cnud
nab, in the state of Georgia, where he continued t re- nt leepql v.
VOn. VIIi.
12

SUPREME COURT U. S.
GRIFFITI1

side untirNovemh.-r, 1790.

On the second day of Oc-

v.
tober, 1790, ont. James Lamotte requested and obtained
FRA~ziER. from the ordinary of Charleston. a citation, in behalf
- _- of the principal creditor of Salvadore, who was Bourlevied upon deaux, to shew cauise, why letters of administration with
,uch etatw o the will annexed, should not be granted to him. On the
By-the law o
return of the citation. no cause being shewn to the contrary, the ordinary did, on the 8th of October, 1790,
tion durante
absentia testa- grant"general, letters of administr.ition with the will anA ceroe gra
s, cannotted at'nexed, on the estate of
.. Salvadore, to Lamotte.
te giunte otficate was also obtained from the ordinary, by which
the will
and- it appeared that it was the custom of the ordinary Court
tters teta- to grant letters of administration dmtrante absentia of the
eniary
South Caroli.
na, administra-

on the 97th January, 1791, ohCourt of common plea , against
a subject not Latmotte, as administrator of Salvadore, to shew cause

executor. Bourdeaux,
granted,
The acts of a tained a rule f'om the
tribunal, pon ,
within itsjuvisdictio., ae

within thirty day§, why the judgment obtained against

Salvadore, as aforesaid, should not be revived, and an

This rule was made absolute
13Ythu law of execution issue thereon.
South Caroli- on the 15th of March. 1791, 11subject to future arguna, the SOday

On the A6th of April following (no further arrule is substi- ment."
tuted for a sci- .,letorpoedn:hve
proceedin havin. ; been had on the said rule,
or
mnent
a
to
facis
re
and no Court intervening in the mean time,) an execution
those caseson- issued, on said judgment, against Lamotte, administralywhere e
li rtor, &c. was lodged in the sherifl's office, and, levied

judgoment in

Nents th-e
I'laintiff from
.aiing out
ctt0oa,

exe-

upon the laud in ,question. by tbe Sheriff, on the 11th of
May, 1791. The land was sold at public outcry to the

highest bidd-,r, on the 6th of Ju1, 1791, and by a deed
of the same date, was conveyed by the Sheriff to'Peter
Freniau, the purchaser.. On the 16th of July, 1796, a
decree was rendered in the suit, Pierce Butler v. Danid
Bourdeaux and Peter Firrneau, directing the said Peter
to convey to such person as Pierec Butler should appoint. In pursuance of this decree, Peter Freneau conveyed to Samuel Jackson, under whom Griffith, the
I'lainfiffin this case, claims by regular conveyances.
Frazier, the Defendant, represents the heirs- of Salva'dore.
On the motion of the Defendant, the Circuit Courtinstructed the jury, that the letters of administrationgranted to Jlames Lamotte, were totally void ; that therefore
the judgment of Bourdeaux was not revived against the
estate of Salvadlre ; that the sale and conveyance by
the sheriff passed no title to the purchaser; and that

FEBRUARY TERM isi.
the evidence was not sufficient to maintain the Plain- dRIFFITH
tiff's action. The jury found a verdict for the DefenT.
dant, and judgmcnt was rendered in his favor. The FRAZIR.
Plaintiff excepted to the opinion of the Court, and sued
out a %rit o error to the judgment.
HARPER, for the Plaintiff'i error, after stating the
facts of the case, contended,

Ist. That the letters of administration, being durant'
absenfia of the executor. were lavxfully and properly
granted by the ordinary to James Lamotte.
2d. That the question whether the granting of these
letters Axere legal or not, NNas a question proper for the
decision of the Court of ordinary ; and that the judgment of that tribunal aas conclusive until reversed on
appeal to the state Court having competent jurisdiction: that, c(ms(queutly, the sale, in the present case,
was valid, and the Plaintiff's title good.
JoNEs,

contra.

1. The grant of administration durante absentiawas ahsolutely void : which br,.ig the uase, if is clear that the
subsequent sale of the property in question by the sheriff wab illegal and invalid.
Dacosta, the executor, had duly qualified; and the
circumstance of his having absented himself from the'
state of South Carolina, for the space of twelve months
is a matter of no inip.rtafice, unless at the same time.
lie was incapable of performing his diuty as executor.
But this does not appear to have been the fact. - The
ordinary therefore had no right to grant letters of ad,
ministrationto Lamnotte.
As to the certificate, said to have been given by the
ordinary, stating that it was the custon of the ordinary
Court to grant administration durante absentia of an executor, it would be shown, on fife part of the Defendant,
that in every case which could b. produced in support
of that custom, the executor had Rot qualified.
The jurisdiction of the ordinary relative to the ap,

SUPREME COURT U. S.
aairricrn pointment of an administrator, is determined by the
10.
act of the testator in appointing.an executor. - The adFRAZIER. ministrator derives all his rights from the Court of ordinary, and nothing from the will. 1, Cor. Dig. 340.
1, Salk. 302. Tokr ex'r. 76, 98. 2, Bac. .8br. 381,
386, 40L. 2, Plowd. 271.
The grant of letters of administration has, in some
cases, been decided to be void, even after the refusal of
the executor to take upon himself the execution of the
will. 2, Bar, .br. 386-T-Went. 145.
The oi'dinary in granting administration, is a ministerial, not a judicial officer. Toler, 50, 66. Jac. Lazw,
Dict. tit. executor. 12, Mod. 437.
In the case under consideration, the executor had
proved the will; and it did not appear to the ordinary
that there were any goods and chattels unadministered.
If this were the fact, the ovdinary had no jurisdiction in
the case, 2, Bar. dbr. '385. Groiffth's collection of
South Carolinalaws, p. 35, 492. Ob, r's administrator1V.
---, Of. S. report of a case decided in South Carolina.
By the statute of 38, Gen. 3, c. 87, to remedy the defect of the law in not giving to the ordinary the p')wer
of appointing anti adfininistrator durante absentia of an
executor who had proved the will, it was evident that.
previous to that statute, the ordinary possessed no such
power. That statute was so explained in tihe case 'of
Taynton -v. Hannay, 3, Bos. and Pid. -26. Toler, 101.
When the executor had taken upon himself the trust
of executing the will, the goods were out of the jurisdiction of the ordinary. Went. 39. 1,, Burn's eccl. law.
If the jurisdiction of the ordinary ceased upon the
qualification of the executor, all his subsequent acts in relation to the business were void-3, . R. 130. Tol/er 128.
Th. Supreme Court of the United States has decided this
principle in cases analogous to the present- -4, Cranch,
244, Rose v. Ffimely. 3, Cranch, S31, Wise v. Withers.
"Wherea Court has no jurisdiction in regard to a particular subject, trespass will ie against a sheriff for execut.
ing it8 orders relative thereto.

FEBRUARY TERM 1ii1

is

2. Admitting the administtation granted to Lamotte
to have been rightfiA, yet the execution against him,
uhder wich the land in question was sold, was absoluiely void; because the thirty day rule, under which
the Plaintiff attempted to revive the judgment in this
case, was admissible only where the judgment had expired by lapse of time merely ; but was not competent
to revive a suit or ajudgment against the representative of a dead party, which could dnly be done by seire
facias, and no scirefacias having issued in this case to
make Lamotte a party,, the execution against him was
absolutely void for want of a judgment whereon'to
ground it-Griffith's collection of S. Carolinalaws, 166,
, sec. 7.
PINKNYu,

Adttorney General, same side.

The principal if not the only point in controversy is,
-Whether the Court of ordinary had jurisdiction ?n the
cage now under consideration.
The ordinary in receiving probate of a will, acts ministerially; and when the will is proN'ed, lie is funchts
officio. The authority of the executor is derived fiom
the will. The only power of the ordinary is to ascertain the existence of the will.
If administration be granted upon the "supposition
that no Will exists, and a -will afterwards appear, all
the proceedings dnder the administration are void-the
administration is a mere nullity-Toler, 120, 12t.
If there be a will, administration cannot be granted
until the executor has refused or nezlected to appear on
shimmons-Toler, 93.
If administration be granted durante ab~entia of the
executor, it becomes void upon the return of the executor and probate of the will. After. Irobate the ordinary
has no further jurisdiction.
The reason of the thing is obvious. The will vests
the testator's property in the executor. He has a right
after probate, to appoint an attorney. But according to
the, doctrine contended for by the Plaintiff, the ordinary

GRIFFITH

V.
FRAZIER.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
GRIFFITH

v.
MRZIER,

---

may also appoint an attorney in the place of the executor. This would be a manifest inronsist,-ncy. The executor, after accepting the trust, is bound to administer,
and is liable for the goods entrusted to him. See ,MS.
report of the case of Ford v. Travis, in the Court of appeals of South Carolina, in which the Court decided
unanimously that after probate of a will, the grant of
administration is void although the executor is absent.
HARPER, il reply.

If this case is against the Plaintiff in error, it is a
case of sheer law against justice. The Plaintiff in error
is a fair, bonafide purchaser, without'notice, rinder the
sanction of the decrees of thc Courts of the state where
the land lies.
The principle contended for by the Defendant, is only true as to the gpneral disposition of the estate. It
does not apply to the temporary interference of the ordinary in particular cases, the peculiar circumstances
of ulich renler such interference necessary ; such as
cases of administration durante minori oetate, ad colligenda bona, S-c.
In the case of Ford v. Travis, cited by the counsel on
the opposite side, the ordinary had granted unlimited
administration for all purposes and forever; but in
the case now beibre the Court, the grant of administration is special and temporary, as appears by the recital in the letters themselves.
The grant of these letters was nothing more than the
appointmei-nt of a curator. In England, the ordinary
has a general power to issue letters of ad-ninitration
durante absentia. The statutes of Edw. 3 and ff. 8, it
is true, did not give a direct authority to grant administration in any case where there was an executor;
but a practice grew out of the equity of those statutes,
to grant temporary administration during the inability
of the executor to acts as pendente bte, minorl retate,
executor insane, &c. 1 P. Williams, 676, Walker -v.
Wollaston.
The general power of the ordinary to grant adminis-

FEBRUARY TERM 1814-.
tration ceases on the probate of a will in which an ex- GRIEFITH
V.
ecutor is named ; but not his power over the estate for
special, temporary purposes. The case in P. Williams, FRAZXT-R.
just cited, in which case probate had been granted, states
the reasons for this temporary interference. The reason for granting administration durante absentia is the
same as for granting it durante minori cetate. The degrec of the necessity makes no difference.: it is sufficient
that there is a necessity. It is said that the executor
may appoint an attorney. True; but suppose he does
not-suppose that, without so doing, he abandons th3
estate, and leaves the country. Would not this be a
case for the interference of the ordinary in the temporary appointment of an administrator? The only inference that can be drawn from the statute of Geo. 3,
c. 87, which has been cited on the other side, is, that
the power of the ordinary to grant administration in
such cases Nas doubted; not that it did not exist: and
so is the case in 3 Bos. and Pul. 26, to be understood,
The statute of Get). 3 is only declaratory of the common law; it does not enact a new law.
Such. then, is the doctrine in Englandon this subject.
In South Carolina it is the same.
Until the year 1712, there is no trace of the existence
of ordinaries in South Carolina. In that year an act
was passed declaring the statutes of 13 Edw. 1, c.
and 31A,Ed. 3. c. t1, to be in force in that colony, and
enacting that the powers mentioned in those acts as belongin. to the ordinary in England, shall be exercised
by the same kind of officer in South Carolina.
The act of 17-11, directing the manner of returning
inventories, speaks of ordinaries as then existing.
The act of 1789, directiug the manner of granting
probate and administration, gives that power to the
county Courts in those counties where such Courts
were established, and, in the other counties, leaves it to
the ordinaries.
The statute of H. 8 is not in force in South Carolin?
The common law is.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
The doctrine, therefore, relative to 'the subject undei
10.
consideration is the same in South Carolina as in EngVAZIR. land; and the power of the ordinary is the same.

rnitraH

That ithhas been the practice of the ordinary Court
to grant administration durante absentia, the Defendant
does not deny, but urges that it has never, until the
present case, been granted after probate by the executor.
Perhaps not; but the reason is that no such case has
before occurred. If it had, there is no doubt tiiat the
ordinary Court would have granted administration as
it has now done. The Courts of the same description
in England would have done the same. If they had
not, the legislature would have interfered.
2. The judgment of the ordinary is conclusive that
lie acted judicially, and upon a subject properly cognizable by his Court. Therefore, even admitting that
he erred in granting the letters of administration to Lamotte, yet Lamotte was administrator defacto, and his
acts bound the estate of Salvadore, until those letters
should be revoked.
That the subject was one properly cognizable by the
ordinary, cannot be denied. He had jurisdiction, under
the equity of the statutes -already cited, to grant temporary administration.
M1had jurisdiction to ascertain
whether or not there was a will of personal property ;
and no prohibition would lie to his proceedings. In a
cntest between two persons of the same name, both
claiming to he executor, he might decide which of the
two was entitled to adminisier the estate. He was
competent to pot such a construction upon the statutes
as li might think correct, and to ascertain his powers
growing out of the equity of those statutes. His judgnient, therefore, in the present cas?, unless reversed on
appeal to the Court of common pleas of South Carolina,
was conclusive in every other Court where it might
come incidentally in question. Yet this Court is now
called up n not only to declare tue judgment of the
ordinary void, and to reverse the same, but to reverse,
also, that of the. appellate Court by which his judgment
has been confirmed.
.

The judgment on which the execution in this case

FEBRUARY TERM 18M.
issued, was properly revived by a Court of competent
jurisdiction, and its judgment can he questioned 6nly
in an appellate Court.
The judgment was revived by a thirty day rule.
That rule was, in fact, a scire facias. The proceeding
was conformable to the usual practice in South Carolina.
The Court of common pleas of that state adjudged the
execution to be awarded upon this revival.' Can this
Court, under such circumtances, reverse that judgment? Suppose the judgment of the Court of common
pleas had been founded on a scire facias, and that scire
facias had been informal. Could this Court, in such a
case, reverse the judgment ? We contend that it could
not in either case. The Courl that ordered the execution to lie awarded had jurisdiction so to do; ant its
decision is final.
The 9th section of the law of South Carolina, respecting the thirty day rule to revive judgments. &c.
gives express authority to the Courts of that stafe to
issue execution without a scirefacias. But it is objeted that this act is applicable only to cases -of laljse of
time, not to cases of the death of the party. But this
is matter of construction on which those Courts were
competent to decide.
The doctrine in the case of Ford -L Travis, so much
relied upon by tie Defendant's counsel, is only that an
unconditional, unlimited, administration, where the executor has previously obtained probate of the will, is
void ; not that a temporary administration would 'iave
been so in a like case.
i. Admitting the execution to have been improperly
issued, still the sale of the property under that execution was valid.
All acts under a judgment obtained by fraud are valid : afortiori, if the judgment be founded on a mistake
either of law or fact. 3 Cranch, 306, Simms and Wise
V. SUM.

It is laid down in 2 Rae. ,br. 270, Tit. Exiutions
that 41 if upon his judgment the Plaintiff takes out a
.3
VOL. VIII.

GRrMT'Xi

-v.
FRAZIER.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
PRIFPTH

v.
FRAzIER.
-.--

eri facias, and thereupon the sheriff sells a term for
years tb a stranger, and the judgiihcnt is afterwards reversed, the Defendant shall only be restored to the money for which the term was sold, and not to tile term
itself; for by the writ the sheriff had authority to sell ;
anl if the sale may be avoided afterwards, few would
be willing to purchase under executions, which would
render writs of execution of no effect." The following
authorities go to establish the same point. Roll. ,6b. 778.
Cro. Eliz. 278. Cro. Jac. 246. 8 Rep. 96. Mlatthe'w
Van ling's case. id. 1-2. Dr. Drury's case. 1 Wils.
It is true that thcse cases all re302, Earl v. Bro-wt.
late to sales of personal prperty ; but there is no difftrence as it respects the sle of lands under a fieri
facias, or what was equivalent thereto, as in the present
sold as personal effects. I Haycase. These lands were
Reports.
wood's X. Carolina
PINHNEY,

contra, contended,

1. That the case in 3 Bos. anud Pul. did not state thai
the statute of Geo. 3'was founded on a doubt, but upon
a clear defect of jurisdiction. That no case could be
lbLnd to sanction the grant of administration qfter probate ina case like the present. That the case of Ford
-r. Ti'avis was decisive that no such administration was
valid in South Carolina.
2. That the judgment of the ordinary was not conelu.
sive that he had'no jurisdiction in a case like that
rider consderation. That the Court of appeals of
South Carolina was of this opinion, and had therefIore
deuared tile judgment of the ordin-ary void. 2 Ba.
4r. XT6.
S.That itc judgment on the rule to show cause was
not conclusive; and this, besides the other reasons
which have been already mentioned, because it was
against a person not a representative of the testator.
1. That this was not the case of a sale to a third persol,, as in the authority cited from Bacon, and the other
cass to the same point; but that the Plaintiff ciahned
under Bturdeax, as a purchaser.

FEBRUARY TERM 1814.

19

That the statute of South Carolinaa, respecting the
thirty day rule, was only applicable to cases of lapse of
time, not to cases of the death of the party
That as to the case in I Wils. 302, cited by the
Plaintiff s counsel, it did not appear that the Court decided oii the validity of the sale, nor that any person
Nishud to disturb it.
JoNEs, on the same side.
As to the law respecting a void judgment, cited Vin.
.1b. Tit. Error-alsoComn. Dig. and Bac. A b. same title.

Tuesday, February 15th. Absent.... WASHINGTON, J.
MARSHALl,

C. J. delivered the opinion of the, Couri

as followvs:
The Plaintiff in error, who was also Plaintiff in the
Circuit Court, brought a writ of trespass quare clausum
fregit, in order to try his title to certain lands, lying in
the district of South Carolina, which, were in possession of the Defendant.
The title of the Plaintiff, which constituted the sole
question in the cause, appeared, on the trial, to be as
tullows:
Joseph Salvadore, being seized of the lands in which
the trespass is alleged to have been committed, departed
this life some time in the year 1786, having first made
his last will in Niriting, in which le named several executors, one of whom, Joseph Dacosta, made probate
of the will, and took upon himself the burthen of executin.g the same; after which, in the year 1789, he left
the state of South Carolina, and resided in Geor.gia.
In the year 1790. letters of administration on the goods
of Salvadore, unadministered by Dacosta his qualified
executor, were grauted to James Lamotte.
In August, 1786. a judgment was obtained by Daniel
Bourdeaux against Salvadore. In January, 1791, a
thirty day rule, which, by an act of the state of South
Carolina, was, in certain eases, substituted in the place

GRIFFITE

T.
FRAZIER.

SUPREME COURT. U S.
GRIFFITH

IV.
FRAZIER.

of a scire facias, was issued to revive this judgment
against Lamotte as administrator of Salvadore. This
r!d]e bring s-rved and returned, the following indorsement was made on it: - 15th March, 1791, made absolute subject to a future argument."
,, Fi. fa. 16th April, 1791."
An excution issu 'd on th;s judgment, under which
the land was sohl, and -%as conve'yed by the sheriff to
Petl'r Freneau by a deed dated the 6th day of June,
1791. On the 16th of July. 1796, a decree was rendered in the suit, Perce Butler -v. Daniel Bourdeaux awl
Peter Freneau, directing the said Peter to convey to
suelh person as Pierc. Bt tier should appoint. In pursuance of this decree, P-ter Freneau conveyed to Samuel Jackson, under whom the Plaintiff claims by regular
conveyances.
On the motion of the Defendant, the Circuit Court
instructed the jury that the Jett rs of administration
granted to James Lamotte were totally void; that
therefore the'judgment of Bourd(aux Nias not reviv-d
against the estate ,f Salvadore; that the sale and conveyance by the sheriff passed no title to the purchaser;
and that the evidence was not suflicicnt to maintain the
Plaintiff's action. The jury found a ve.rdict for the
Defendant, and judgm nt was rendered in his favor.
The Plaintiff excepted to the opinion of th- Court, and
has sued out a writ of error to the jtidgnent.
The sole defect alleged in'the title of the Plaintiff
beinq in that part of it which depends on the sale and
conveyance of the sher'iff to Petes Freneau, the validity
of that sale is the principal if not the only question in
the cause. In support of it the Plaintiff contends,
1st. That the letters of administration, being durante
absentia of the executor, were properly granted to
James Lamotte.
W(. If the ordinary erred in granting these letters,
still Lamotte was administrator de facto; nd his acts
bound t e estate of Salvadore until those letters should
be revoked.

FEBRUARY TERM i8m.
3d, That the judgment on which the execution issued GRImmTi
v.
Was prop rly revived by a Court of competent jurisdiction, and its judgment can be questioned only in an ap- MAzEn.
pellate Court.
The negative of these propositions is maintained by
the Defendant in error.
That the appointment of an executor, and his acceptance of the office, constitute a complele legal 6wner of
the personal estate of the deceased is admitted; but it
is contended that these acts suspend without annihilatiug
the pouer of the ordinary. So long as the executor is
capable of exercising the authority with which he has
been invested by the testator, it can be conferr-d on no
othr person; but when he becomes incapable, from any
cause whatever, as by insanity or death, the powfer of
appointing some p rson. who shal secure the estate from
ruin, necessarily reverts to that tribun.1 which the law
appoints for the general purpose of prwidiug- for the
manage-nent of the property of dead persons. All
cases of temporary administration, as during the minority of an executor, or during his absence pwevious
to the probate of the will, are considered as exercises
of the same power, thotigh in a' less degree, and as
proving that the ordinary may, after the executor has
qualified, if he shall abspnt himself so as, in the opinion
of the ordinary, to disqualify him from performbig his
duty. appoint an administrator de bonis nwn with the
*,ill annexed, whose power shall continue until the return of the executor.
The Court does not concur in 'this reasonin.g. In
the cases stated at bar, and in all cases \vhere teniporary administration has been granted, unless under a special act of the legislature, the executor was. for the
time, absolutely incapable of performing his duty.
There existed an actual legal disability to perform the
functions of his office. Until probate of the will, and
until letters testamentary are obtained, "the execitor
cannot obtain any judgment; because it cannot appir-a
that he is executor.
There is, therefore, an absolute.necessity fo'r appointing some person who, until probate, sMll take care of

SUPREME COURT U. S.
GRIF ITH

,.
FRAziER.

the estate. But this is not the case with an executor
weho, after taking out letters testamentary, absents himself frorq the state. He is still capable of performing,
and lie is still bound to perform, all the dutie of an executor. Thef'e exists no legal disability in the executor. and, consequently, there is no necessity for transferring to another those powers which the testator has
conferred on a person selected by himself.
This power does not appear ever to have been exercised by the ordinary in England anterior to the statute
of 38, George 3d ; an(d in South Carolina, the ordinary
possesses no 1power which was not possessed by the ordinary in Englaild previous to that statute. The practice of the particular ordinary wha acted in this case,
would iot be sufficient to constitute the law, had it even
never received judicial reprobation; but the case of
Ford v. Travis puts an end to any doubt on this point.
The second point is one of more doubt -.nd greater
intricacy. That the ordinary erred in granting letters
of administration to Lamotte, is thought very apparent; but the effect of these letters is less obvious. By
the Plaintiff it is contended, that they constituted Lamotte an a'dministrator defacto, rendered his acts valid,
so far as third persons are interested, and exempted
th m from question where they can be examined only
incidentally. By the Defendant it is contended, that
they were granted by a person having no jurisdiction
in the case, and are therefore an absolute nullity; That
Lamotte was not. de facto, the administrator of Salvadore, and that his acts, as administrator, stand on no
better or higher ground than the acts of any other perwon who should assume that character.
The well known distinction between an erroneous
act or judgment by a tribunal having cognizance of the
subjcct matter, and the act or judgment of a tribunal
having no cognizance of the subject, is not denied; but
it is contended that the ordinary had jurisdiction in this
case. The ordinary, in South Carolina, is the Court
in which wills are proved; in which letters testamentary. and letters of administration are granted. He
judges whether the applicant be entitled to administration or not, and rejects or admits the claim, according

FEBRUARY TERM isi.

to his opinion of the law. Whether his judgment be

GRIMPITU

correct or not, still it is his jedgment; and when exercised upon an Application for administration, it is exercised on a subject cognizable in his Court.

FRAZIER.

.That he grants letters of administration in cases not
expressly authorized by statute, and in which a will
exists in which an executor is named, proves that he
has jurisdiction in such cases; and if he grants administration in one of them improperly, the judgment is
erroneous and voidable, but not void.
This argument has been very strongly urged, and
there is great force in it. The difficulty bf distinguishing those caseq of administration in which a Court
having general testamentary jurisdiction, may be said
to have aeted on a subject not within its cognizance, is
perceived and felt. But the difficulty of marking the
precise line of distinction does not prove that no such
line-exists.
To give the qrdinaryjurisaiction, a case, in which, by
law, letters of administration may issue, must be brought
before him. In thecommon case of intestacy, it is clear
that letters of administration must he granted to some
person by the ordinary; and thctgh they should be
granted to one not entitled by law, still the act is binding until annulled by the competent authority; because
he had power to grant letters of administration in the
case. But suppose administration to be granted on the
estate of a person not really dead. The"act, all will admit, is totally void. Yet the ordinary' must always enquire and decide whether the person whose estate is tt
be committed to the care -f others, be dead or 'n life.
It is a branch of every cause in which letters of administration issue. Yet the -decision of the ordinary that
the person on whose estate he acts is dead, if tile
fact be otherwise, does not invest the person he may appoint, with the character or powers of an administrator. The case, in truth, was not one within his jurisdiction. It was not one in which he ha'd a right to deliberate. It was not committed to him by the law. And
although one of the points occurs in all cases proper
for his tribunal, yet that point cannot bring the subject
within his jurisdiction.

V.

AUPREME COURT U. S.
GRInFPT,

.6
FRAZIER.

The case of letters of administration granted on the

estate of a person in full life, is not the only one which
may serve for illustration ; suppose administration tW
be granted on the estate of a deceased person whose
executor is present, in the constant performance of his
executorial duties. Is such an appointment void, or is
it only voidableZ
In the opinion of the Court it would be'an absolute
nullity.
The appointment of an executor vests the whole personal estate in the person so allpointed. He holds as
trustee for the purposes of the will, but he holds the legal title in all the chattels of the testator. He is, for the
purpose of administering them, as much the legal proprietor of those chattels as was the testator himself
while alive. This is incompatible with, any power in
the ordinary to transfer these rhattels to any other per.
son8by the grant ofadministration on them. 'His grant
can'pass nothing: it conveys no right; and is a void
act.
If the ordinary possesses no power to grant administration where an executor is present performing his
duty, what difference can his absence make, provided
that.absence does not diaqualify him from executing his
trust? If all his powers as an executor remain, if he
is still, capable of appearing in Courts of ju tice as the
representative of the deceased, if he is still the legal
owner of the chattels of the deceas.ed, and still capable
of disposing of them, it would seem that he is pot- ntial,
ly present though personally absent. It is not easy to
perceive any principle on wlich the ordinary can assert
his power to take the estate out of the executor and
vest it in an administrator. If he cannt do this, then
the attempt to do it must bea void act. If the adminis.
trator dtrante absentiabe only the agent of the executdr, it still occurs that the executor can himself appoint,
and is the proper person to appoint, his own agent.
There is no necessity for the intrusiofi of the ordinary.
Let the case be supposed of a suit by the executor
while actually resident abroad. Would he be incap, ble
of sustaining the action? Would his absence be a good

FEBRUARY TERM 1814.
plea in bar?

If It would not, how can the grant of let-

ters of administration to another take the property in
the thing sued for out of the executor and place it in

that other?

Letters testamentary, when once granted, are not revocable by the ordinary. He cannot annul them, or
transfer the legal interest of the executor to any other
person. His rights and his duties are beyond the reach
of the ordinary. How, then, can this be effected by the
grant of .letters of administration?
The cases in which administration has been granted
notwithstanding the existence of a will, appear- to be
cases in which it is not apparent that there is any person possessing right in the chattels ofthe testator, or
cases in which that person is legally disqualified from
acting.
Where administration is granted pending a dispute
respecting a will, it is not certain that there is an executor, or that there is a will.
If it be granted during the minority of an executor,
it is because the executor is Igally disqualified from
acting, and indeed has not taken upon himself, and
could nut take upon himself the trust reposed in him.
He may, when of age, reject all the rightg and powers
conferred by the will; and, consequently, the interest
is not yet a vested interest. The rights and powers of
the ordinary remain until those of the executor conmence.
So in the case of an absent executor who has not yet
made probat of the will and qualified. Those letters
testamentary which are indispensable to his character
as executor, and which, ' during their existence, leave
the ordinary' without any furt:.er power over the subno
ject, are not yet granted. The exrcutor has as yet
,,
evidence that he is executor. He is not yet able t .act
as one. He may never be able to act; for lie may ne4er
take out letters testamentary. He may renounce the
executorship. The ordinary, then, is not .yet deprived
of that power which he possesses to appoint a person to
represent a dead man who has no representative. His

VOL, VII,

GniFFITH

T.
RAzzE.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
GRIFFIT1

-.

jurisdiction over the subject remains untlihe parts with
it by issuing letters testamentary.

FRAZIER.

The difl'erence between granting administration in
cases where there is a qualified executor, capable, in
law, of acting; and where he has not qualified, is such
as, in reason, to justify the opinion that though, in the
latter case, the ordinary may have jurisdiction, and hiki
act, though erroneous, may be valid till repealed, yet.
in the former case he can have no jurisdiction, and his
act is in itself an absolute nullity.
If, under any circumstances, the ordinary could grant,
administration during the absence of an executor whop
has made probat of the will and is legally competent to
act, then he would havejurisdiction of the subject, and
wouldJudge of those circumstances; but if, in no possible
state of things, he could grant suqh administration, it
would be difficult to conceive how he can have jurisdiction.
If we refer to authority, we can find no case and no
dictum which admits the jurisdiction of the ordinary,
where there is an existing executor capable of acting.
'In many cases it is stated, that an administration granted where there is such an executor is -void. Toler, in
his 6 law of executors, page i20, says, c' If there be an
,,executor, and administration be granted before probate,
,,and refusal, it shall be void on the wills being after" wards proved, although the will were suppressed, or
"its'existence were unknown, or it were dubious who
was executor, or he -was concealed, or abroad at the
"time of granting the administration." It is also void
"if granted becausethe executor has become a bankrupt,"
or if giranted, ",durante ininoritate where the infant had
", attained his age ofseventeen," until thestatute ofs8, Q.
3. So ,,if granted by a bishop where the ntestate had
,, bona notabilia, or by an archbishop of effects in another province."
The case of Ford v. Travis, decided in South Carolina, is ex'pre!s to this point, and renders a further refer-.
ence to English books unnecessary.
The counsel for'the Plaintiff admits this to be the law

FEBRUARY TERM i8i4.
where an absolute. administration is granted; but de- GIIEFFITU
nies the law to be applicable to the grant of a temporaT.,
ry administration. ,
VRAZIER.
However correct this distinction may be in many cascs, its application to that at bar is not admitted.
No temporary administration can be granted where
there is an executor in being, capable of acting, and
where the case will not justify the grant of a temporary
administration, it would seem to be as completely out
of the jurisdiction of the ordinary, as the grant of an
absolute administration,- where that is not within his
power.
The case, put by 2o/er, of administration din'ante mifi.
oritale where the executor is of the age of. 17, seems
full in point. This is a temporary administration, and
the minority of the executor is a fact for the consideration of the ordinary. Yet if, in such a case, he grants
administration, the act is void, because, in fact, it iF
not a case in which he can grant it.
The reasoning of the Court in the case of Fordvr.
Travis, appears applicable to this case. They say the
executor having proved the will, ,was in the nature
of a trustee; he could neither abandon his trust, nor ie
deprived of his interest in the estate of.the deceased by
any act ot the ordinary. The ordinary, by proving the
Wil and qualifying the executor, executed his power;
and no law exist, in this state, authorisin- him to resume it during the life time of the qualified executor,
notwithstanding he may be absent from the state. Letters of administration granted under such circumstances are void ab initio.
If the ordinary cannot resume his power, so as to
grant an absolute administration, he cannot resume it
ror a limited time. le cannot, by any act of his, divest
the interest of the executor for an instAnt.' The power
may revert to him by operation of law, but cannot he
assumed by any act of his own.
The grant of a temporary administration, as during
the minority of an executor, is ad nsinn et commodunm

SUPREME COURT If. S.
oztyirrpi
r.
PRAZIER.

eaeculmois. But in this case, the administration is, for
the time, absolute, and makes the adwinistratur tht entire representative of the deceased. It w, uld not be
unworthy of remark, if the case depenued on it, that
though the application of Lamotte was for adminisiration during the absence of the executor, yet the grant
itself is without limitation.
But, i5 its verynature, the appointment of an administrator, during the abs'nce of an executor under no
diability, is essentially nothing more than the appointment ol an ag,'nt bir that excutor. This, the ordinary
has not the power to do. The executor alune can appoint his agents.
If tho ordinary had no jurisdictilon in tihe case, then
the grant of adniuijistration was void ab initio, and all
the acts of the grantee are void-Toblr, 128, 3, Term.
Rep. 125.
It is contended by the Plaintiff, that could this administration' even be considered as null, where that
forms the direct question b( fore ti-e Court, as it did in
Fofdv. Travis, yeL that p'int cannot be examined where
it is cdlateral and incidental.
The answer which has been given at bar to this argument is entirely satisfactory. The qticstion .has never
been examined in a Court of law sitting as an appellate
Court. The question has never been, whether tia letters ofadmiuisti ation shall be revok d or not, I tit whethee theywere origi'ally void, so as not- to warrant the
particular act in support of which they were aleged.
But in this case, the letters of administration come as
directly bcfore the Court as in the case of Ford v. Tra-Dis. Tile conv'-y;:nce from the sheriff to Freneau forms
a part of the Ph intiffs title; and tihe validity of that
conveyance may depend on the question whether Lamotti" was or was not the administrator of Salvadore.
,The question, therefore. must nevssaril3 -be decided ;
and a nuj,,rity of the Court is of opinion that adminis.
tration was granted by a Court having no jumisliction
in the particular case, and is therefore absolutely void..

FEBRUARY TERM isi.
3d. It is contended on the part of the Plaintiff, that GRFM~tM
V.
thejudgment on which the execution issued was properly revivea by a Court of competent jurisdiction, whose FRAZIER.
judgment is therefore conclusive until reversed.
The first objection made to this judgment of reviver
is, that it was made without legal process. The thity
day rule is substituted for the siere facias oniy in cases
where lapse of time prevents the Plaintiff from sufi
out execution.
However this Court might construe the law on 'an
appeal from a judgment of revivor in such case, that
question has bren decided hy a tourt of competent jurisdictin, and cannot be reviewed here.
The second objection is, that the letters of adaninistrat-,m being a mere nullity, no party representing the
.esrat. of " alvadore was before the Court, and consequtently the judgment could not bind that estate.
This question is one of considerable Uhjaeuity. iad
the ju ginfnt been revived against the executor himself,
without tie s, rvce of process, it would perhaps, while
in force, have protected all proceedin.gs under it. But
this judginent is rviv, d . ainst Lamotte, who was not
the rn presentative of Salvadore. In the opinion of a
makjority of the Court. an execution on this judgment
could not legally be levied on the property of Salvadore;
and if so, the title was not vested in the sheriff by the
service (,f the execution, and could not he conveyed by
him to tho purchaser. Upon this point, the case cited
from kst Wilson, 302, is a strng one against the 6pinion
of the Court: but in that case, the execution, though
irregular, was issued on aral judgment, and justified the
sheriff in taking the effects of the deceased. On its face
it was unexceptionable. It issued at an improper time;
but in all other respects was correct. In this case, the
execution issu.:d on a judgment which was itself a nullity ; and it authorized the sheriff to take the effects'real
an( personal of Joseph Salvadre in the hands of James
Lainotte to be administered. Now the property of Salvadore was not in the hands of Lamotte, but was in the
hands of his executor.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
(VRIFFITH

v.
FRAZIER.

The case in Wilson,, too, is so briefly, I might say
obscurely, reported, as to leave the principle, on wiich
the Court decided, entirely uncertain. It does not appear that the object of the motion extended further than
the restoration of the money. Th:s was not an attempt
to set aside the sale; and nothing appears in the case
from which is to be conclusively inferred what the opinion of the Court would have been on that question.
In the opinion of a majority of the Court, there is no
error in the judgment of the Circuit Court, and it is
affirmed with costs.
W ednesday, February16th.

HARPER observed that he understood the opinion of
the Court to be founded considerably on the form of the
fieri facias, inasmuch as it directed the sale of the lands
of Salvadore in the hands of Ldmotte, when, in fact, there
were no lands in the hands of Lamotte.
MARSHALL,

Ch. J.

That was one ground of the opinion: but another,
was, that the sale was founded on a void judgment.
HARPERz, as to the first point, suggested to the Court
that the. form of the fieri facias was against the lands
as well as the goods.

VAN NESS v. FORREST.

1814.
Feb.

tth.

.lbsent....WAsHINGTON, J.

ERROR
y
-. lrnhssoi
note,
ive by .Columbia.
one member
df a tcxnier.

,.ia compa,
t

,

to the Circuit Court for the district of

The case'as stated by MARSHALL, Ch. J. in delivcr
the opinion of the Court was as follows:

