SLPREME COUR'T U. S
ISO,.
reb,

CROWELL AND OTHERs v. MFADON.

1 ryth.

lbsent.... WAsUINGTGN, J.
Under t.e
l1th see oithe
Eniba oact
of '25th April,

l8OS-,theco!
heetor was jtls.
tlled in detainby
a vesselopiing
his holiest

ERROR to the Supreme Judicial Court of the Coino
monwealth of Massachusetts.
The case, as stated by DuVALL, . in delivering the
opinion of the Court, was as follows:

An action of trover for 650 barrels of flour, of the
cargo of the schooner Union, was brought by John
M'Fadon against Joseph Otis and the Appellants, in the
provisions6f Court of Common Pleas for, Sufflok county, in the Comthe Embargo monw(alth of Massachusetts, where a trial was had and
laws., It Wasud
rendered in favorof the Defendants. From
medgment
not neeessary
fbi him toshow this decision there was an appeal to the Supreme Judihis susp
that wns
stteaaaiin whidi the cause was again
tea- cial Court of that state,
cion
tried and a verdict and judgment rendered for the Plainsenable.
nion that there
was an intenhe
to to

tifffor 53,716 30 and costs. Joseph Otis (ied %hilft
the suit was depenting in the Supreme Judicial Court.
The following are the prircipal facts appearing on
the record in this case: The schooner Union. Benjamin Hawes, commander, with a cargo of 650 barrels of
flour and five tons of logwood shipped by John M4,Fadon,
of Baltimore, was cleared at that port for Machias,, in
Massachusetts, late in the month of April, in the year
1808. She had originally cleared for Vassainaluoddy,
on the 26th of April, before the collector had received notice of the act of the 25th of the same month which
Authorised him to detain the vessel : the destination was
changed to Machias, and a clearance obtaine'd accordingly. But the original destination of the flour on
board for Eas'port, remained on the face of the manifest.
"I'lieflour was shipped for account and risk of Josiah
Dana, of Machias, and in his absence Jonathan Bartlett,
of Eastport, or his assigns. The Union sailed from
Baltimore the last of April and meeting with head winds,
the comiander put into Hymas, in the district of Barnstable. She was soon afterwarids boarded by Joseph
Crowell, one o the inspectors of the revenue in that dis-

trit. who, on inspecting her papers, thought proper to

FEBRUARY TERM t8i4t
submit them to the examination of Joseph Otis the col- cOwAEL.

lector. The collector, upon a consideration of the cir- & OTHERS
cumstances before stated, was of opinion that it was the
IV.
intention of the concerned to violate or evade the pro- MFcADoN.
visions of the embargo laws, and therefore detained
the vessel by virtue of the authority vested in him by
the 6th and ith sections of the act of the 25th of April,
1808, 'vol. 9, p. 68, until the decision of the president of
the United States could be had thereon. The president,
after due enquiry, approved and confirmed the conduct
ofthe collector. The vessel remained in this situation
until the 25th of July, when she was taken to Gage's
wharf by Joseph Hawes, inspector of the port, and her
cargo:was landed and stored, with the assent of the agent
of the owners, and the vessel discharged. On the
4th of October following the collector offered to deliver
the flour to the agent on payment of the expense of
storing.
The collector detained the Union under the 6th and
11th sections of the act of the 25th of April, 18o8.
The 6th section provides "cthat no ship or vessel having
any cargo whatever on board, shall, during the'cuntinnance of the act laying an embargo on all -ships and vessels in, the ports and harbors of the United States, be
allowed to lepart from any port of the United Sttes for
any other port or district of the United States adjacent
to the territories, colonies or provinces of a foreign nation ; nor shall any clearance be furnished to any ship or
vessel bound as aforesaid 'ithout special permission
of the president of the United States." The 11th section provides thatthe collectors ofthecustoms be and they
are respectively authorised to detain any vessel ostensibly bound w ith a cargo to some other port of the United
'States, whenever in their opinion the intention is tw-violate or evade any of the provisions of the acts laying an.
embargo until the decision of the president of (he United
States be had thereupon.
With this evidence the cause canie on to be heard
in the Siipreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts, and
at the trial the judge charged rod- instructed the"jury
that, under the circumstances proved by the Defendant,
neither the said collector or any person by his order, hy
virtue of the act aforesaid,-had apy right to intermeddle
with or unlade the cargo of the said schooner, and that

SUPREME COURT U. S.
CROWELL such unlading was an unlawful act and a conversion of
& OTHERS the cargo by the Defendants; and with this drection the
Iv.
jury found a verdict for the Plaintiffto the amount before.
N16FADON.

mentioned.

To this opinion an exception was taken and

the ciuse was removed to this court by writ of error in
pursuance of the 25th section of the act to establish the
Judicial Courts of the United States.
riKNEY, (late attorney general of the United States,)
for the Plaintif in Error,
Contended, that as the landing and storing the cargo
was by consent of the agent of'the owner, the only question was, whetherthe collector was justified, in detaining the vesel, by his"honest Suspicion that the intention was to violate or evade the provisions of the embargo laws.
Upon this point lie,insisted that it was not incumbent
on the collector to show that he had reasonable grounds
of suspicion. It was sufficient if.
he'satisfied the jury
that, in his honest opinibn, there was such an intention.
tRDrn, contra,
Contended, that the question as not~whether the de.
lention was justifiable, but whether the unlading was
justifiable. If the landing was by the consent of the
agent of thd owner, it was a consent forced upon him by
the detention of the vessel.
But cmigress could not mean to subject the vessel to
the arbitrary opinion of the collector. The detention
was not laiful unless the circumstances justified the
sCIspicion. The collector must at least shew probable
canse. The facts of the case did not authorise the sue.
picion.
PINKNEY, -i reply.
The question is still the same. As t66 unlading was
with the assent of the agent of the owner, it was a lawful act if the detention was lawful. The law did not
mean to make the collector responsible for the sound exercise of his discretion. He was to have no guide'but

FEBRUARY TERM 18H .
his own honest opinion. It is not like the case of capture CROWXET,
as prize of war, where the officer acts at his peril, and & OTnKu S
must exercise a sound discretio, and must have reasonav0.
ble grounds of suspicion. But here it is put upon the M'FADoN.
opinion of the collector, and he is bound to act upon that.
opinion. If he fails to do so, -he is liable for a misdemeanor in his office. If lie honestly errs in his suspici, i
he is excused. Whether it be his honest opinion is a
matter for the decision of the jury.
This cause was argued at last term by the Atlorney
General c Jones for the Plaintiff- in Error, and by Auto.
ry
P. B. Key for the Defendants in Error.
PINKNEY, attorney general,

Suggested a doubt whether an action for damages
for a seizuire. on navigable %aters was not as much a
cause of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction as if the
proceedings were in rein.
AMORy & KEY,
Contended, that the l1th section of the act of 25th
April, 1808, only gave authority to the collector of the
district 'who was to grant the clearance, to detain the
vessel, and that the collector of another district had no
right to stop a vessel passing through an intermediate
district. The law gave no right to seize, but merely to
detain, which shows that the authority is given only to
the collectgr within whose official control the vessel is.
The collector to whom application is to be made for a
clearance is the only person to whom the discretion is
entrusted. He has the best means of information, and if
suspicion should be excited, it is there only that the owncr can furnish the means of remo'ing it. The opposite
construction of the law would give to collectors at the
mouths of our bays the whole contiol of our commerce,
and would subject it to much vexation. The whole trade
of the Chesapeake would be subject io the control of the
:ollector of Norfolk.
JONES,

in reply,

Contended, that the law autborised any collector bf
is
VOL. Vi.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
CRoWELL any district to stop and detain any vessel which might
& OT.HERs be passing through his district, if he really suspected
T.
her of an intention to violate the pr6visions of the emMFADoN.

bargo laws.
Feb. 28th....DUvALL, J.* after stating the facts of the
case, delivered the opinion of the Court as follows:
,, This Court is unanimously of opinion that the direction of the judge of the Supreme Judicial Court of
Massachusetts was erroneous. The law of congress
under which the collector acted is clear and explicit.
The collector was bound by law to seize and detain the
Union, on her arrival in his district, if, in his opinion,
it was the intention to violate or evade any of the provisions ,of the embargA laws, and his conduct was ,ap.
proved and confirmed by the president. The landing and
storing the cargo, whether to preserve it from injury or
to secure it from ruin, (which, in this case, was done
with the consent of the agent of the owner,) was a necessary consequence of the detention. The law places
a confidence in the opinion of the officer, and he is bound
to act according to his opinion; and when he honestly
exercises it, as he must do in the execution of his duty,
be cannot be punished for it.
The judgment of the Court below is reversed ivith
costs.

1811.

BEIkATTY'S ADMI.NISTRArORS
BURNES'S ADMINISTRATORS.

J.bsent..,. NYASHINGTON, Jo
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the district of
ulimi- Columbia, .sifting at Washington.

of' and
TI5eMar~d
statue

Jtwns LivxxGS'."o

was absent when this opinion was delivered.

JuDon

Stoy gave no opinibnt,having some impression that he was, at a former pe.rlod, retained -as counsel in the cause, although he did not remernber argt-

