SUPREME COURT U. S.
(VRIFFITH

v.
FRAZIER.

The case in Wilson,, too, is so briefly, I might say
obscurely, reported, as to leave the principle, on wiich
the Court decided, entirely uncertain. It does not appear that the object of the motion extended further than
the restoration of the money. Th:s was not an attempt
to set aside the sale; and nothing appears in the case
from which is to be conclusively inferred what the opinion of the Court would have been on that question.
In the opinion of a majority of the Court, there is no
error in the judgment of the Circuit Court, and it is
affirmed with costs.
W ednesday, February16th.

HARPER observed that he understood the opinion of
the Court to be founded considerably on the form of the
fieri facias, inasmuch as it directed the sale of the lands
of Salvadore in the hands of Ldmotte, when, in fact, there
were no lands in the hands of Lamotte.
MARSHALL,

Ch. J.

That was one ground of the opinion: but another,
was, that the sale was founded on a void judgment.
HARPERz, as to the first point, suggested to the Court
that the. form of the fieri facias was against the lands
as well as the goods.

VAN NESS v. FORREST.

1814.
Feb.

tth.

.lbsent....WAsHINGTON, J.

ERROR
y
-. lrnhssoi
note,
ive by .Columbia.
one member
df a tcxnier.

,.ia compa,
t

,

to the Circuit Court for the district of

The case'as stated by MARSHALL, Ch. J. in delivcr
the opinion of the Court was as follows:

FEBRUARY TERM 181A.
The Defendant in error, who was president of a con- VAN NEs
mercial company, consisting of four or five hundred
Iv.
members, sold certain merchandize, the property of the FORRnLST.
company, to Jehiel Crossfield, and took his note payable
in' twenty days to Joseph Fo-rest, president of the Company;
the s of -.the
1iU1
commercial company, for the purchase moiiey. De- mw'ntai.anac.
fault having been made in payment, Joseph Forrest in- tionth atroraisee
law by
stituted a suit against Jehiel Crossfield and John P. "h'ise
Van Ness, who was a dormant partner of Crossfield, name, agtat
maker,
the
and also a partner of the commercial company.
notwithstand.
ig both par-

pattfirst nes
ties wcre
The declaration contains several counts. Theatie
in that
is on the promissory note, which is charged as the note compn and
of Crossfield and Van Ness, trading under the firm of the money
recoJehiel Crossfield. The second and third, for goods, When
"Ierdwould
wares and merchandize sold and delivered, the fourth blong to the
for Money had and received by the Defendant, to the Ifcompany.
the deceause of the Plaintiff, and the fifth on anlinsimui COfilm- ration ho up.
on a joint
tassit.
note, and the
Defendant

The Defendant, *Van Ness, pleads the general issue, plea(], (hat the
note is the
on which plea issue is joined.
pate note of"
vne of the De-

He also pleads in bar several special pleas, anount- fendanti, and
ghcn to
ing in substance to this, that the several asumil its in ancepted
the declaration mentioned, o."
were made for
,oods,
wares,
by
t""k * •tityI
in Plaifull &'nand mnerchandize, belongin, to the comnerciai company, t i,,,, Sr
consisting of many partners. and of which both the the debt, this
is Ld up.
'oea
Plaintiff and himself were members.
On ,pecial demnrrer, be-

The third pleaaccep
alleges,
mu'ts;tto a-the
and~di..that the Plaintiff..did agree to cu.
accept anq didaccept
accept the st'parate promissory note Ofcrnl isuAe,
the said Crossfield, in payrnent of all and sin'gular the
debt and debts, promises and assuoiptions in the. Plaintiffs said declaration above supposed ; in pursuance and
execution of whict agreemet aforsaidf: the said Defendant. Jehiel Crossfleld, made the said promissory
note in the Plaintiff, said declaration menioned anti
delivered tie same to the said Plaintiff. on the day of
the date of the said note, at the county aibeesaid, and
the Plaintiff then and there accepted,-the same as payment, in pursuance of heaforesaid agreement.
To these several special pleas, the Plaintifi in the

SUPREME COURT t
VAnNESS

v.

S.

Court below demurred specially, and the Defendant
joined in demurrer.

F'ORREST.

On argument, the .emurrers except to the third plea,
were overruled, and the pleas sustained as to the 2d,
3d and 4th counts, but the demurrers were sustained as
to the 1st and 5th counts of the declaration. The demurrer was also sustained as to the 3d plea, which was
adjudged bad as to all the counts.
On thetrialof the issues, Van Ness objected to the evidence offired by the Plaintiff below, to support the first
count, and his objection being overruled, excepted to the
opinion of the Court. This exception brings on the whole
question made by the pleas on the point, that the goods
for which the note was given, were partnership goods
belonging to a company of wlich both the Plaintiff and
Defendant were members.
The july found a verdict foir the Plaintiff below, on
which judgment was rendered, and the cause is brought
into this Court by writ of error.
;JONES, for the 1'ttintff in error, contended,
1st, That this action is not sustainable, it being
brought by one partner against anoth,.r. And 2d, That
the separate note of Crossfi,Id was a discharge of the
original debt due f'rom Crossfield and VanNess.
1. An action does not lie by one partner against another, unless for a balance stated and acknowledged upon
settlement of the partnership accounts.
The suit was as much for the use of Van Ness, as of
any other of the stockholders. The Plaintiff was only
a conventional president. The stockholders must all
join in the action, and then Van Ness would be both
Plaintiff and Defendant.
2. Tihe plea states, that the Plaintiff agreed to take
the separate note of Crossfield in full satisraction for
the goods sold and-delivered. This was decided by this
Court to be a good defonce in the case of Sheehy -,
.1randevile.'6.'6rank, 25.

FEBRUARY TERM 18i1
J. LAw, contra.

TAN NESS
V.

It is true that one partner cannot sue another on an TORREST.
"implicdpromise, but he may upon an express promise.
2. T. R. 479, Foster v. .tllanson. 1. East. 20, Wright
v. Hunter. After verdict, the promise shall be taken to
be express-4. Cranch, 224, Grant v. Mailor.
The' Defendant cannot set up a trust to defeat the
Plaintiffs legal right to recover. If the trustee of a
feme sole should bring an action ag.,inst t!c husband, lie
could not defend himself by pleading that the money N
recovered, would be for the use of' is wife, and that the
wife could not sue him at law. Th. Di-. endant cannot
be permitted to look behind the legal Plaintiff for the
purpose of setting up an inequitable defence. If this
doctrine were to prevail, private banking companies
could not recover money lent to stockholders.
The causes of demuirer Assigned are, that the plea
amounts to the general issue-and that the plea n,-ither
admits nor denies the promise laid in the declaration.
JowEs, in reply.

The cases cited do not take this case out of the gsneral principle, that one partner cannot sue another.
This is not an express promise of the Defendant. It
iAonly by implication that lie is charged. It is a pro.
mise that the law raises upon the fact, that lie is a partner with him who expressly promised. In all the money counts, the promise is implied.
As to the objection that the plea amounts to the gene,
ral istue-that point is settled also in the case of Sheehy
v. Mandeville.
MARSHAML,

Ch. J. after stating the case. delivered

the opinion of the Court as follows :
It is contended by the Plaintiff in error,
1st. That this action is not sustainable, it being
brought by one partner against another.
VOL. VIIF.
5

34
VAN NESS

IV.

SUPREME COURT U. S:

2d. That the separate note of Crossfield discharges
the original debt, due from Crossfield and Van Ness.

FORREST.

As the first error assigned by the Plaintiff, is, if it
be really an error, apparent on the bill of exceptions,
as well as in the pleas, it is not necessary to examine
the formality of the pleas respecting it.
It is alleged that, at law, one partner can sue another, on a claim growing out of the parinership, in no
other case than for a general balance on a stated account.
The terms in which this proposition has been laid
down are perhapstoo general.
In the case at bar, the suit is instituted on a promissory note given, not to the company, but to Joseph Forrest, president of the company. Although the original
cause of action does not merge in this note, yet a suit
is clearly sustainable on the note itself. Such suit can
be brought only in the name of Joseph Forrest. It can
uo mbre be brought in the name of the company, than
if it had been given to a person, not a member, for the
benefit of the company. The legal title is in Joseph
Forrest, who recovers the money, in his own name, as
a trustee for the company. Upon the record, and technically speaking, he is the sole Plaintiff, and the Court
can perceive no reasonable or legal objection to his sustaining an action on the note. The principle that a
company cannot sue its members, does not apply to the
case; nor does the principle, that a partner cannot sue a
partner on a partnership transaction, apply to any case
where a note iii writing is given for money, not to a firm,
but to an individual member.
The third plea alleges, that the Plaintiff in the Court
below agreed to accept the separate promissory note of
Crossfield in payment, and that, in execution of this
agreement, Crossfield made the note in the declaration
mentioned, which was accepted in paymbnt of the several assumptions stated ir the declaration.
. Now the note, ini the declaration mentioned, is a joint
note, so that this plea in one place alleges it to be a
ioint note, and in another place to be a several note.

FEBRUARY TERM 18i14.
It becomes unnecessary to inquire into the effect of
this repugnancy, if it be one, because the plea, if to be
understood as averring that the note, in the declaration
mentioned, is a several and not a joint note, would
amount to the general issue. The plea is no more, to
the first count, than non assumpsit. For if the note was
not the note of Van Ness, he had not made the assumpsit stated in the first count. This is ill upon a special
demurrer, when assigned as cause of demurrer.

VAN Nzss

V.
FORREST.

The Plaintiff in error supposes the case of Sheehy v.
*Jfandeville 4 Jameson, reported in 6th Cranch, 253, to
be a case in his favor, on this point. The Court thinks
otherwise. In that case, as in this, a note was given by
one partner for a debt contracted by the firm. In that
case, as in this, one count in the declaration was special,
on the note, stating it to be a joint note, and other counts
were general, on the original transactions. The Defendant, whose name was not on the note, stated it to
have been received in discharge of the open account.
The Court. decided, that the plea was good, not in bar
of the' special count on the note itself, but in bar of the
general.counts, for gpods sold and delivered.
Upon the special count, the Court was in favor of
the Plaintiff below, who was also Plaintiff in- error, and
the judgment of the Circuit Court, 'which had been
against lim, was reversed. The case of Sheehy 'v. .MandeviUe 4 Jameson, then, is not in favor of the Plaintiff iin
error, so far as his third plea applies to the first count
in this declaration.
This Court is of opinion, that there is no error in
the judgment of the Circuit Court either in sustaining
the demurrers to the severalplea filed in that Court to
the first count in the declaration, or in admitting the
note, in the declaration mentioned, to be given in evidence to the jury, on the trial of the issue of fact. This
opinion renders it unnecessary to examine.the decision
of the Circuit Court, as it respects the pleas to the
other counts, since, should their decision respecting the
pleas to those counts even he deemed erroneous, their
judgment will stand.
Judgment affirmed 'with costs and damages., at the rato
of 6 per cent. per annum, and costs,

