FEBRUARY TERM 181A.
lions, that the property which is rendered auxiliary or
subservient to enemy interests, becomes tainted with forfeiture.

THE

JULUI,
LUCE,
M ASTEt.

I cannet but remark that the license in tins case, issued within our own territory by an agent of the British government, carries with it a peculiarly obnoxious
character. This circumstance, which is founded on an
assumption of consular authority that ought to hae
ceased with the war, afbrds the strongest evidence of
improper intercourse. The public dangers to which it
must unavoidably lead, by fostering interests. vithin
th bosom of the country,, against tbe measures of the
'goN ernnt, and the breach of faith wiich it imports in
a public functionary receiving the protection of the government, can never he lost sight of in a tribunal 'of
justice. I forbear to dwell further on this -delicato
subject.
Upon the whole, I consider the property" .gaged in
this transaction as stamptd with the hostile characer ;
and I entirely concur in the decisi n of the district
,judge, which pronounced it subject to condemnation."

TIE AURORA, PINE,

31STE.

THIS Nas an appeal from the Circuit Court for
dwi district of Rhod Isiand.
The folloving were the material facts of the case-:

The

ceep-

The and por"at enemy's
iense on, g
Voyage to a
neutral port,

Sonme months after the declaration of war, the ship prosecuted il
fitherance of
Aurora, documented as American property, and owned the enemy's
by Thomas M. Clarke and Ebeezer VXhjelright, the avoled ohClaimants, who are Anieica citizens, saiIr7fromn New- ,and iletl,
burypirt to Norfolk, in ballast. At the latter place esseand car.
ste took in a carg o consisting of bread, flour, corn, &c. goto confiseca.
and sailed from thence on or about the 12th November, ris not neet.
' 11)Order
1812, ostensibly for St. Bartholomews, a neutral island. "11
to 'Ubjeet the
helonging to the Swedes, for which port site bad obtain- ,, uvodtth

SUPREME COURT U. S.
THE

ed ber clearance. The cargo was consigned to the seecarfgo of tile ship. On thr, 26th Nvemb'r, 1812,

AURORA, -p

she was captured by the American privateer schooner,
g..vrnor Tompk ins, onthe high seas. At the time of
capture, she was to Vie leeward of St. Bartholomews,
nd .unation, and had on board a British license, which she exhibited
that the per- to the captors, supposing them ,to be British. This lithe license cense consisted of three documents:
ri n.

XAsTEl.

should be duly
authorized to

Ist. A pass for the West Indies, exclusively, D om
Andrew Alln, his Britannic majesty's consul residing
son receiing
it takesit wih at Boston ; to which is annexed a copy of a letter, tingrant it, provided thceler-

the expecta
tion that it ivill
protect Ins

der the consular seal, from admiral Sa-wycr to Mr
Allen, as follows:

property fr-ou
th enenly.
Sainig,
with

"

To the commanders of any of his majesty's ships

an intention
to Of war or of private armed ships belonging to his mafu.th.r the, jesty.
views of the
enelhy, is sUar

- Whereas from aconsideration of the great importance
o.f continuin a regular supply of flour and other dry
,
though thatin- provisions ar(l lumber to the British islands inthe West
teation be
Indies, it has-been deemed expedient by his majesty's
fruistrated by
oupture.
government, that, notwvithstanding tie hostilities now
existing between Great Brit-ain and the United States
of America, evei-y protection andencouragement should
be given to Amerirliii vessels laden with flour and other
dry provisions and lumber, and bound to the British is
lands in the West'Indies. And whereas in futherance
of these views of his majesty's government. Herbert
Sa') er, esq. vice admiral and commander in chief of
his majesty's squadron on the Halifax statien, has d"-.
rected to me a letter under date of the 5th August, 812,
(a copy -whereof is hereunto annexed) wherein I am
instructed to furnish a copy of his letter, certified ulndt-r
my onstular seal, to every American vessel so laden
and bound to the West Indies, which is designed as a
perfect safeguard and protection to such vessel in the
prosec'ution of such voyage. , Now, therefore, in pursuance of' these instructions, I have granted to the
American xhip Aurora, William Augustu§ Pike, master,
burthen 257 4.7-95ths. tons, piow lying in the harbor of
Newburport, and bound ,to Norfolk for a carjgo of
flour, corn and other dry provisions for St. BartholoN ews, the annexed document, to avail oily in a dirttci
fick-nt to con.
tlerim the po

f~-

FEBRUARY TERMI181.
T11E
voyage to the West. Indies and -back to' the United
States ; rtjuesting all. the offic(rs commanding his ma- AU11o0A.
jesty's ships of war, or of p iyate armed vessels bnlg- PIKB,
ig to subjects of Iis majesty, not only to sufter the MASTER.,
said Aurora to pass without molestation, but also to
extend to her all d~e assistance and ptotection in the
prosecution of her vsoYage to the NAest Indies and in her
returni to the United States laden with merchandize not
exceedijig the nett amount of lher.outward cargo, or in
ballast only.

",Given under my hand and seal of otfice
this-first day of October, 18s2.
"ANDREW -'ALLEN, jun.
His majesty's consul."
To the above pass was annexed the following copy of
a letter from admiral Sawyer certified under the consular seal, and alluded to jn the above docuhnent.
His najest!!'s ship Centurion,
At Italifar, the 5th of August, 1812.
"SIR,
- I have fully considered that part of your letter
of the 18th ultimo, which relates to the means of ensuring a constant supply of flour and other dry provisions to Spain and Portugal, and to the West India islands; and, being aware of the importance of the subject, concur in the proposition you have made.
6 I shall therefore give directions to the commanders
of his majesty's squadron under my command, not to
molest American vzssels so laden, and unarmed, bona
fide bound to British, Portuguese or Spanish ports,
whose papers shall be accompanied with a certified copy of this letter, under the consular seal.
-I have the nonor to be, sir,
"Your most obedient humble servant,
",H. SAWYER, Vice dmiral.
Andrew Allen, esq.

MBthh Cnsul Boston.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
THE
AURORA,

,, Offlee of his Britannic .Majesty's Consid.

PiKE,
I, Andrew Allen, junior, his Britannic majesty's conMASTER. sul for the states of Massachusetti, New Hampshire,

Rhode Island and Connecticut, do hereby certify, that
the annexed paper is a true copy of 'a letter addressed
to me by H. Sawyer, esq. vice adnliral and commander
in chief of his majesty's squadron on the Halifax
station.

[sEAL.]

if Given under my hand and seal of office,
at Boston, in the state of Massachusetts, this.first (lay of October, in the
year of our Lord, one thousand eight
hundred and twelve.
AN DREW ALLEN, jun."

2d. The following certificate of the Consul:
,ffce of his BPitannic najesty's Co u.
I, Andrew Allen, junior, his Britannic majesty's consul for the states of Massachnsett6, New Hampshire,
Rhode Island and Connecticut, do hereby certify, that
the ship Aul-ora, Win. Augustus Pike, being bound to
St. Barflolomenws (on account of the existing law of the
United States, which prevents her return to the United
States from a British port) contemplates fulfilling the
object comprised in the accopipanying license from H.
Sawyer, esq. vice admiral and commander in chief on
the. Halifax station, through a neutral port irr alliance
with Great Britain.
, Given rider my hand and seal of office,
at Boston, in the state of Massachu[SEAL.]
setts, this second day of October, in
the year of our Lord, one thousand
eight hundred and twelve.
ANDREW ALLEN, jun."
3d. The following general pass for the West Indies.
4, Office of his Britannic ,Majesty'sConsul.
16 1, Andrew Allen, jun. his Britannic mijesty's consil for the states of Massachusetts, New Hampshire.

FEBRUARY TERM f 1M.
Rhode Island and Connecticut, request all Oflicers
THE
commanding his majesty's ships of war, or private rilft- AURORA,
ed ships belonging to subjects of his majesty, to permit Pixe,
the American ship. Aurora, William Augustus Pike, MASTE..
master. now lying in the harbor of 'Newburyport, and
furnished with a protection from vice admiral Sawyer,
for the purpose of carrying flour, corn, lunber and other necessary provisions to the West Indies, and proceeding to-Norfolk in ballast for a cargo, to pass without
molestation.

[sEA .]

- Given under my hand And seal of office,
at Boston, in the state of Massachuisetts, this fir.t day of October, in the
year of our Lord, one thousand eight
hundred- and twelve.
" ANDREW ALLEN, ju\"

The Aurora was carried into Newport, Rhode. Ts
land, and there libelled. The Circuit Court of that district condemned vessel and cargo as prize to the captors;
from which sentence the Claimants appealed to this
Court.
r HUNTER, for .8ppallants.
The libel, in this case, sets forth that the sailing was
for the put-pose of supplying the British West India colonies, and that the papers stating the voyage to St.
Bartholomews, were fraudulent and collusive ; and urges the condemnation of vessel and cargo, on the following grounds:1. That the possession of and sailing with a British license is cause of capture and condemnation.
2. That the voyage of the Aurora was intended as an
indirect voyage to a British port, through St. Barts.
S. That the real destination of the ship wqs to a British port.*
On the first point, it is contended, on the part of the
Claimants, that the having on board a British license or

SUPIEME COURT U. S.
THE
AURORA,
PIKE,
MASTER.

pass in a lawful trade to a neutral country, could not, before the act of congress of August I,1813, pi ohibiting
the use of British licenses, subject a vessel to capture.
This is clear from the act itself, the operation ol which
is not to commence from its passage. but, witi 'regard
to vessls then in port, was to take effect in five days
after the p omulgation of the act; with regard to vessels at adistance from the United States, not until the
1st of November; and in some cases not before the ist of
December ibllowing. Hence it is evident that the legislature did not consider this act as merely declaratory of
the law of nations on the subject, but as then, for the
first time, making the use of a British license by an
American vess,, illegal. Laws of U, S. -vol. 12, p. 226.
But we are bound to meet the general proposition,
which is that the use of such a jicens%- gives a hostile
character to the property and the voyage.
The doctrine, that any intercourse with the enemy exposes to condennati,n, has been supposed to be very
ancieht; but we find no case of a d,,cisi',n ,ipon the principle, till the year 1717, when a bill was brotight into
parliament in consequence of insurance made fir enemies. Parl. debates vol. 26, p. 178. Shi Willian .Jfuiray's speech, on the suojeet of insuring enemy property, and
I T. R. 81, Gist v. ,Mason.
The rule appears to us to be unreasonable and impolitic. Where is the harm oftaking advantage rofa relaxation of the rights of war by the enemy ? How ca;n. that
be a crime when granted by ths p,,li'y of the enemy,
which would have been no crime if obtained by frorceby conquest? It is not less for our own interest to take
advantage of such permission from the enmy, than it is
for his interest to grant it. It is a public benefit.
The general rule by which to determine the national
character of a vessel, is the domicil of the owner. Here,
the owners were American citizens. The case of a vrssel sailing under the flag or assumed character of a
country to which she does not belong, is admitted to be
an exception to the general rule. But here was no sailing under such assumed character. AU-the papers of

FEBRUARY TERM i81i.
THE
the Aurora were American, except the one in question,
which cannot of itself be sufficient to give a hostile. chav- AURORA.,
acter to the holders of it, nor to the vessel and cargo. PIKE.,
I . . T. 1. 64, Jenks v. Hullet and al.-Chitty's laW M ASTER.
of rations 58.-Caseof the Clarissacited in 5 Rob 4. The
Vro'w Elizabeth.

The only prohibition, existing at the time of the sailing of the Aurora was to take a license to a British port.
That was prohibited by the act of July 6th, 1812, 7.
By that act, we admit, all commercial intercourse
with the enemy, was rendered unlawful; but we contend
that it was not unlawful to use a British license in anettralvoyage. i Rob. 167, !00. The Hoop.
Suppose Great Britain should think proper to permit
a particular neutral trade-suppose she were pven to
protect it by convoy-are we bound to refuse to accept
such permission-such protection ?
Valin laughs at the English for restoring, in the form
of insurance, the captures mads, by their cruizers; but
does not censure the French merchant for taking it.
The voyage in this case was not made by the license.
but merely made safer by it. The voyage was certainly lawful without it: and a license to pursue a voyage
which was lawful without it, cannot make that vyagai
mlawful. Pamphlet of cases decidedin the District Courts
of Penanylvania and Malssachusetts, p. 80, 8i. Judge
Davis' opinionon the use of British licenses. Judge Peters'
opinion.-I Vez. 317. Thinoncean's Iiynk. 166.
On the second point, viz. That the voyage of the Aurora was intended as ati indirect voyage to a British
port through St. Barts, it is, contended by the Claimants, thaft there is no evidence to justify the fact assumed.
Was this a bonafide voyage to St. Barts? On the decision of this point the whole case turns. In discussing
this question all the circumstances of the case should he
taken into consideration. Vid. 1'ortalis' opinion in the
case o the Pigou. conlained iL a noul to the case of 11w
Z7
VIII.
VO

SUPREME COURT U. S.
TnE
AURORA,

Pinic,

Charming Betsey, 2 Cranch, ,98. lid. also Ch. J. MAu
SHALL'S Opinion in the case of the .Matilda decided in
North Carolina. Hall's law journa, 487.

MASTER.

.....

With respect to those circumstances attending the
transaction, which, on first view, are perhaps calculated
to excite a suspicion that this was not a baoaj'de voyage
to St. Barts, it may be observed, that it was the object
of the Aurora to deceive the enemy, and thereby obtain
an exemption from capture, during the voyage, by inducing him to suppose that the cargo was ultimately intended for the British. Such an imposition, in a case
like the present, we conceive was justifiable.
What motive could the Aurora have had for sailino to
a British island rather than to St. Barts ? At a British
island, she could only take in a cargo of rum; and the
importation of such- a ('argo was prohibited by our own
laws. At St. Barrs, she could take in a general West
India cargo. Motives of interest, therefore, would have
induced her to go to the latter place rather than the
former.
But suppose the intention was to go to a British port;
was that intention executed ? It wa not. But accordiik" oothe decision in the case of the .1bby, 5 Rob. 251.
there must be an act of tradin, as well as an intention.
in order to subject the vessel to condemnatioa.
On the third p-)int, which, it is presumed, constitutes
the stress of the casw, we contend that the real destination of the Aurora was not to a British port, and that
the condemnation on the ground of a British supply being intended and proceeded in, is erroneous and against
proof'
That the supply of the British West Indies was the
object of admiral Sawyer in granting the lice.se, we do
not deny: but what his intention was, is perfectly immaterial : such was not our intention in accepting it. Our
object was to escape capture ; and with that view we
obt:oired a license from te enemy, by inducing him to
helie, that we intended to furnish supplies to his
jilands.

FEBRUARY TERM 1814.

alI

What is said by Allen, the constu, is mere surplusTHE
age: his authority extend d no farther than to ccltify AVRORA,
admiral Sawjer's letter: having done this, he vasfitnci,i.E,
tus fcio. But suppose the license granted, by Allen to MASTER.
have been valid, it wvas only for a voyage to St. Barts,
and would not have protected the Aurora in any other
voyage: That was the voyage insured.
J. WOODWARD,

contra.

With regard to the act of .qu'mt 2, 1813, Nihich htas
been said, by the coui.sel for the Claimants, to prove
that the use of British licenses, pre%ions to the pass:ige
of that act. was not unlawful, we are still of opinion
that the act is merely in affirmation of the law of nations. It is also cumulative-it adds penalties to what
was before unlawful ; but does not make any thing unlawful which Nas not so before. The latter clause in*
the 3d sec. of the act, providing ,, that nothing contained in the said act shall be so construed as to arrest or stay
any lprosecutions," &c. was intended to guard against
the construction which the Claimants have now attempted to give it. The several periods of time allowed to
vessels In different situations, to obtain notice of the act,
were allowed them in order that they might be enabled
to avoid the new penalties. *
Trading with the enemy Nas an intdictable offence at
comm~on law. 2 RoUe's .Abr. 173, but it was necessary
for congress to fix the penalty for tradin. on laud : this
they liave accordingly done in the act of July G, i8]2.
By the course of the admiralty, the thing itself was liable to forfeiture for trading with the enemy.
The British papers on board the Aurora shew a case
of supply ; and therefore the question of pass or license
is immaterial. The pass was expressly for the purpose
of supplying the enlemy.
But suppose the papers do not prove a case of supply,
the ns of the license on the high seas is, of itself,.suflicient to give the property a hostile' character. The license in this case is essentially diff-rent from a general
license by an order in council. There no special favorno particular benefit, is granted.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
THE
AURoRA,

riKE,
MASTER.

The use of a hostile protection in the prosecution of a
neutral trade, gives a hostile character to the voyage.
Sailing under a hostile convoy is good ground of condemnation; sir Wifiam Scott denominates it ,,illicit
protection." Sailing under two commissions is also cause
of condemnation. ralin,p. 241, b. 3, art. 9. All these cases are analogous to the present. The Aurora was
sailing tinder the physical force of the enemy. Admiral
Sawyer's letter requires the British naval force to assist
her in the proscution of her vnyage. She must, therefore be considered as having placed herself under the
protection of the enemy, and as having, consequently
abandoned her national character.
Trading with an enemy was cause of forfeiture at
common law; and whatever %as cause of forfeiture at
common law, is good cause of condemnation in the admiralty. 2 Rob. 8W, 69. Thie Walsingham Packet.
The case of Jenks v. Hallet and al. cited by the Claimants, is'not applicable to the present case: we were
not then at war with France.
Sir William Scott, in the case of tme Vigilantia, I Rob.
ii, 13, has laid it down as a known and established rule,
that if a vessel is'navigating under the pass of a foreign
country, she is considered as bearing the national character of that nation under whose pass she sails. Now
what was the license in question but such a pass ?
The license is not a docutment under the law of nations. The granting of it is the exercise of a municipal right-a prerogative to the crown. The king, however, has no right to grant licenses, to any but his own
subjects, without a particular act of parliament aut orizing him so to do: There is no case in which lie has
granted a license to strangers without such an act of
parliament. If a license be granted without such authority, the person who takes it can take it only as a
subject. Chitty's law of nations, 256.-id. 316.-2 Roll.
Mlbr. 173, tit. Prerogatie.-IRob. 199, 200. The Hoop.2 Tucker's Bl. Com. 258.-Chilty's law of nations, 278.
-Reeves, 358.
Any commercial intercourse, direct or indirect, with

FEBRUARY TERM 1i81.
the enemy, is illegal, and cause. of condemnation : its il- THE
legality does not depend on contract. The intervention AURORA,
of a neutral port make no diff rence. 8 T. R. 555. PiKE,
Pottsv. Bell and al.-.4 Rob. 68, 69, 83, 8-.

Pieter.-I Rob. 165, 196.
nat ions, 13, 14, 15.

The Johge

MASTElR.

The Hoop.-Chitty's law of--

When the Aurora was taken, she was out of the.
course to St. B:.rts, and very far to the leeward of that
island. These circumstances afford a strong suspicion
that her destination was to some other port.
The return cargo was British produce, and, primafacie, British prvptrty: if it %%as not, it is on the Claimants to shew it.
It appears that the captain was kept ignorant of the
real destination of the Aurora. and thAt the supercargo,
during his examination in preparatoria, was guilty of
preiarication. These cir umstances alone are good
cause of condemnation. Chithi's law f nations, 314.
As to what has been said with regard to the intention
not being carried into effect, we contend that it was carried into effect to every legal purpose. An overt-act
was sufficient to constitute the offence ; ,and sailing with
the license was such an overt act.
PINKNEY, on the same side.

The rule, that trade with the enemy is illegal, results
necessarily from the declaration -of war, and is included
in it: There was no necessity for any subsequent law
to enforce the rule.
It has been said that no judicial decision on this subject is to he found of an earlier date than 1747. It is
true sir William Scott, in his enumeration of cases
where this question was agitated has gone no farther
back than that date: but sir John .Nicholls, in his argument in the case of Potts -. Bell, has cited cames from
sir Edward Simpsoz's .MS. reports in the admiralty,
where this principle was decided to be correct as early
as 704, and 1707 : and it is to be presumed that those

SUPREME COURT U. S.
THE

AuROnA,

decisions were founded upon former cases. See also
1, Vez. 3i7, Ilenkle v. the Royal Ex. In. Co. itV 1749.

PIKE,

-MASTE.

The general rule is above all impeachment.
This case may be considered, as it regards,
Ist. The license alone.
2d. The license as connected with the transaction
itself.
First, then, we contend that no American citizen, in
a rime of war, has a right voluntarily to place himself
u: der the protection of the enemy. War exists between
tho nations in their political capacity, and between thp
individuals of each nation respectively. The power of
making peace follows the power of making war. Individuals cannot lawfully make peace even for themselves. But the accelitance of a license from the enemy is makibg a peace with him so far as it goes-it is
a partial truce--a partial cessation of histilities.
Transactions of this kind are productive of gi eat evil.
The American citizen who accepts a license from the
enemy, does that which is highly injurious to the interests of his country: The indulgence of the enemy'
imposes on him an obligation to act as a neutral, contrary to his duty as a citizen-it is an individtial
bribe-it has a tendency to poison the whole virtue and
patriotism of the country-to undermine the govern ment-to alienate the affections of the citizens, and to
place the nation in the power of the enemy.
The circumstance, that acts of congress have been
passed prohibiting trade with the enemy, the use of his licenses, &c. has been urged by tho Claimants, as evidence that such communication with the enemy was not
unlawful prior to the passage of those acts. But we
contend that, it was unlawful under a well established
rule of the law of nations; and that if these acts have
not repealed that rule, they cannot aid the Claimants
in the present case. Sir Win. Scott's observations in the
case of the Ri ff'ning, are in point. 2, Rob. 137, 165.
But we have a special answer to the argument of the

FEBRUARY TERM i814.,
Claimants. The act of July 6, goes upon the presumption that tie intercourse with the enemy which
it prohibits, was before unlawful-it does not profess

THE
AURORA.

to create a new offence.

MASTEI1.

Considering, then, this point as settled, the arguiTent, that the act of 6th July prohibits the use of licenses to trade with British ports only, falls to the
ground.
The caseof ransom has been said to militate with thk
argument w9 have employed in support of the illegality
of sailing under the protection of the enemy. But the
cases are widely difftrent. In a case of ransom, the
captured vessel is compelled to make an agreement
with the enemy-she is under the necessity of accepting their protection-here the transaction was'perfectly
voluntary.
The rule of "17.6, declaring illegal the coasting
trade permit.ted by the enemy in time of war, which
Was prohibited by hiu in time of peace, is founded upon the same general principle. It, then, the pernsision
only of the enemy gives a hostile charaoter to vessels
sailing under that permission, a fortiori, they acquirp. a
hostile character by sailing under the protection of the
enemy.
But suppose the Claimants in thii case did not mean
to aid the British, but merely to benefit themselves at
the expense of their country and their fellow citizensstill the object of the license and tie obvious conseqnence
of the voyage, was the supply of the British West
Indies. This the Claimant, must have known. They
knew, also, that the pressure of the West Indies was
one of the mean@ which the United States were using to
coerce the mewy: yet they become the agents of the
British to prevent this pressure. If a neutral carry
despatches for one of the belligerent pawers, it affords
just cause of condeniation to the other: How muich
stronger is the case of a citizen of one of the belligerent
nations furnishing the other with supplies.
It has been said that here was only an intent to commit an illegal act) (supposing the act contemplated to

PriK,

SUPREME COURT U. S.
THE
AURORA,

PIKF,,
MASTER.

b illegal,) that there was no corpus delicti. But we
contend that the very art of sailing with a view to execute the irtention, constitutes the offence. Such is the
law in ease of blockade : if a vessel sails for a blockaded port, knowing it to be blockaded, she thereby, acquires a hostile character.
We might here conteild that the real destination of
the Aurora was n,)t to St. Barts, but to a British port;
for it appears that, when raptured, she was(,1610 miles
to the leeward f that island but it is unnecessary to
9ay any thing on this point, as the principle, is the same;
and the vessel equally liable to condemnation, whether
her destination were to a British port or to St. Barts :
in the latter case, the cat-go, it was well known, would
be obtained by the enemy from the Swedes ; so that it
was, in effect, the same thing as if it had been carried
direct to the enemy.
DEXTER,' ir reply.
It is the universdilty of the rule in question we mean
to controvert--we ilen. that there is such a general rule.
It is not to be found in 1'uffewtorf, Grotins, Vattel or any
of the oilier jurists excepting Bynkershoek, whose rules
of war are written in blood: and even lie has qua-dified
the rule-lie says himself that the rule prohibiting all
commercial intercourse is that away by the laws of
commerce. Vrfditu only shows that a particular intercourse is forbidden by the law of France ; and, in noticing Britili insurance, he does not condemn the
French for procu,'ing it. rho .case of Potts v. Bell
proves that the doctrine in question has hut recently
been introduced: it is, however, in that case admitted
with the exception of thoge rAses wh.,re tie royal license
has been obtained: but this exception must be taken as
part of the rule itself: The general principle without
the exception would be ruinous to the nation: The inchnveniences *hich would arise from it ire incalculable.
In 1747, lord Mansfield and sir Iiidley Ryder were of
at dilfrent opinion as to the policy of the rule, and as
to the principle of laW.
Ih Henkle i. the Royal Ex. .As. Co. lord Hardwicke
said - It might be going too far to say that all trading

FEBRUARY TERM 1814.
cc with an enemy is unlawful; for the general doctrine
,,would go a great way even where only Englisht goods
" were exported, and none of the enemy's imported,

THE
AURORA.

",which may be very beneficial.'

MASTER.

In this country there has been no decision to establish
the rule; and if we take the British rule, we must take
it with the power of dispensation: but the president
hs n. such power: the sovereignty has been said to
reside in the people: but the remedy by application to
congress would be too slow and uncertain, We must
conclude, thertfore, that in this country no such rule
exists.
It has, nevertheless, been contended, by the counsel
for the captors, that the rule not only exists, but that
it is universal. Is a man, then, bound to abandon all
his property which may happen to be in the enemy's
country at the breaking out of a war? Such Would be
the consequence of taking the rule without any exception. Some cases of intercourse with the enemy, itis
true, are so palpably illegal as to admit of no doubt on
the subject; such as all traiterous intercourse, and perliaps a direct trade; so, also, if the intercourse be in
consequence of a new enterprize undertaken since the
commencement of hostilities-: but many cases must necessarily occur, on the breaking out of a war, which
ought certainly to form exceptions: Such is the doctrine
in Evgland, where the excepted cases are provided for
by the royal license permitting intercourse with the
enemy, under certain circumstances and with certain
restrictions. In a country, then, where licenses cannot be obtained, all cass where they would be granted
if a power of granting them existed, must be cases of
judicial exception to the general rule. Many occasions may and frequently do occur, during war, on
which such intercourse with the enemy would he highly
expedient in a political view-occasions where the publie good requires an exception; and those, too, cases
neither of necessity nor humanity, which must always
be excepted.
It is not necessary to inquire whether the mere acceptanoe of a license is ground of condemnation ; it is the
sailingunder a license which constitutes the offence- but
VOL. VIIL
28

rxnK,

SUPREME COURT U. S.
in our case there was nosiiling under the license. The
TInM
AUROA., license authorized a voyage to a British, Portuguese or
riKE, Spanish port: the voyage in the present case was to a
MASTnR. port belo ging to the Swedes: the letter of Allen, the
consul, which has been said to authorize a voyage to a
Swedish port also, is entitled to no regard. Admiral
Sawyer's letter was the only protection: all the a-'ts of
Allen, except certifyifig that letter, were unauthorized
and unoffioial; they were no protection to the Au.'ora.
Allen's ltter~shows, on the face of it, that the voyage
to St. Barts was not ov'red by the license ; it merely
expresses an opinion that that voyage would answer
the purposes cont'mplated by the British government
as well as a voyage to a British port.
It has been said that the real destination of the Aurora was to a llritisn poit ; and in support of the position.
the circumstance of h,,r being considerably to the leeward of St. Barts, when captured, has been urged in
proof; but the argument deserves little consideration ;
it is a verycoinon thing to fall to the leeward : besides,
it appears that the Aurora had been beating to the
windward three days befoi e she was captured, although
wheu she first made the land, there were numerous Bri.
tish ports under her lee.
It has also been argued on the lrt of the captors,
that a t ans.ship:nent from St. Barts to an enemy port
was intenhed : but there is no t-vidence even of this: nor
was ihere any motive for such trans-shipment: the cargo
would meet with as ready a sale at St. 13arts as at a
British island: the superior advantage of taking in a
return caigo at the forier placelhas been alrieady noticed.
But it is said that it was equally criminal to carry
this cargo to St. Barts Ps to) a port of the enemy, because the Swedes would probably dispo;e of it to the
British. This argument, also, we conceive to be wholly- 'ithout foundation : no. decision to that effect has
ever been pronounced : the caseof the island of St. Eustatius, in. the .last war goes to prove the reverse of this
doctrine.
Nothing, therefore, as we conceive, having been pro.
ved., on the liart of the captors, sufficient to subject thi

FEBRUARY TERM 1811.
property in question to condemnation, we trust that the
TH.
Court, on the consideration of the whole. case, will de- Li-oa A.
t*ree restitution to the Claimants.
I 1 F,
Jroiulayl, Ofarch 7th. .Abseizt....'l'onn, .L..
LIVINLISTON, J. delivered the opinion of the Conr
The ship Aurora and cargo. owned by the Claimants,
who are Amiefican citizens, and docunientud as American prolprty, were capturc(d, t-n the 26t4t ol Novinber
1812, by the private armed ship Govternlor Tompkinoon an ostensible destination for St. Ilartholmtaews.
From the documents o6 board and tliv preparatory exaininations, it appears that the ship sailed troin Newburyport to Norfolk, in ballast, took in her presetit rargo,
consisting" t' bread, flour, corn, &c. at the latter place,
and sailed fr'om thence on the voyage on whi,-h she was
captured, on or aboit the l2thof Nivemnber, t812. The
cargo was consigned to the slip,.rcargo of the ship ; and
the destination thereof upon the ships lpapers, supported
by the preparatory exaininations, was St. Ba'tholon,-ws,
for which island the ship obtained her clearance. At the
time ofcapture, she wastothe leeward of thatisland ; and
certain passporls or prot(ections from the agents of the
British government were found on board, which are familiarly known by the title of British licenses; which
docuenivts are as tollows.;*:
Two qInelioni have bee., inade at bar. 1. Whether
the acceptance atid use of an enemy's license or passport oetprotection, on a voyage perfilrmed in furtherance
of the eaciny's avot(ed oblets, be illegal, so as io affect
the pr pjrty with confiscation. 2. Ilso, whether there
is any thin- in the piresent case, to exempt it from the
general principle.
The first point having just been decided in the affirmative, in the Julia, it only remains to enquire whether
there be any thing in this case to exempt it from' the
general principle.
In the opinion of a majority of the Court, it is not easy to discriminate b tween these cases : both of the yesSee the 3tatement at the beginning of the report. fthis co.

MlASTER.

SUPREME COURT. U S.
TR,
AURORA,

IKE,
MASTER.

sels had licenses or passports of the same character, and
substantially for the same purpose, except only that the
object of the Julia was to suipply the allied armies in
Portugal, and the original intention of the Aurora was
to go the British West Indics. It is by no means clear
that this destination was ever changed; but admitting
that. from an apprehension of's .]zure in case of her returning to the United States after touching at a British
port. she, in fact, sailed on a voyage to St. BartholQmewvs, this can' make no siibtantial difference in her favor. Her object in going tirre was equally criminal,
and subserved the views of the enemy nearly if not quite
as we'l as if her ci rga had bren landed in a British island ; of the real design of the voyage there ctn remain
no doubt; for it abundantly appears, from tne license itself, that the professed object -f admiral Sawyer at
least, in granting it. was to obt-.tin a supply of provisions
for the tnem) ; and the Co,,rt will not easily lend its
car to a suggestion. tiat notwithstanding the Aurora
was found with a British protection on boai d, of so obnoxious a character, yet her owners intended to deceive
the enemy, either by going to a port not mentioned it) it,
or by disposing of her cargo in a way th:!t would not
have promoted his views. Without meaning to say
that such conduct may under no circumstances whatevcr be explained, the Court thinks that there is no proof,
in this case, to shew that it was not the intention of the
Claimants to carry into effect the original understanding
between them and Mr. Allen. For although the destination to St. Barthlonmews be conceded, it is evident
that Mr. Alln, who acted as British consul, supposed
the views of admiral Sawyer might be anqered as well
in that, as in any other way ; nour is it clear, as was said
at bar, that the docmnents which were received f'om Mr.
Allen, which varied more in fsri than in substance from
the admiral's passport, would nut have protected her
against British captur'e, on a voyage to that island. The
protection of admiral Sawyer extended to unarmed
American vessels laden with dry provisions, and boim
fide bonu to Bitish, Prtuguese or Spanim ports.
The onlv modifiration, or extenti.o, introduced by Mr.
Allen, was a permission to go to a Swdlish island,
equq.lly neutral with Spain atid Portugal. in the vicinity
of tli British possessions. Whether all or any ofthese
papers would have saved the Aurora from confication
in 4 British Court of admiralty, this Court is not bound

FEBRUARY TERM 8I4.
to assert; it is sufficient if that were the reasonable expectation of the parties, as it certainly was, and it is
more than probable that such expectation would have
been realized, cousidering the veryimportant advantage
which the enemy was to derive from them. In case of
capture, there can be no doubt that the Claimants would
have interposed these very papers, which are now supposed to have emanated trom unauthorized agents, and
T,robaihly with success, as a shield against forfeiture.
.Whiy then. should they be permitted to allege here, that
they would have been ineffectual for that purpose?

THE
AURORA,

PiKE,
MASTEP.

It is also insisted, that, in this case, no illicit intercourse had actually taken place; that the %hole offence,
if any, consisted in intetozm; and that if a capture htd
iiot intervn-d, there was still a locus peuitentim, and no
ene can sai that even a project of going to St. Bartholomews mighit ot have been abandoned. In this reasoning the Court does not concur ; but is of opinion that tile
moment the Aurora started on the voyage. for St. Bartholoniews, with tl.e license in question and a cargo of provihious, she rendt red herself liable to capture by the public and private armed ships of the United States, who
were not bound to lay by aud see how she would conduct herself during the voyage, the consequence of which
woull be that no right of capture would ekist until all
chance of making it were at at end.
Jvdgment qffirmed.

THE ADVENTURE,

MASTEPX.

TilIS was an appeal from the decree of the Circuit The eabc of a
Court for the district of Virginia.
1I
e,.nl catgo, belonging

The facts of the case, as stated by .Joansow, J. in de- one,itgerent
livering the opinion of the Court, were as follow:
nation, capturedqS
high
,onbythe
a crui-

The Libellants were the master and crew of thdi Amer- zer ofthcother
ican brig 6Throe Fr ends." On the 14th November, belligerent,
t .t,
whilst on their voyage from Slto to th
r.azils, tr.
to anetA
, and
by
the B"z.,
1811Saem

