FEBRUARY TERM 1814.
serve the views and interests of the enemy ? Upon the
whole, the Court is of opinion that there is no substantial
difference between this case and that of the Julia; and
that this is fully within the principle laid down by this
Court in decidinig that.case, and the reasoning to which
it refers.

TUB
HIRA-st
BATEE,

MASTER.,

It was stated, on the behalf of the Claimants of the
cargo, that they ought not 'to he affected by the illegal
act of tize owner of the vessel in sailing under the protection of this license. It is a sufficient answer to this
argumet to observe, that, in-this case, the Court must
presume that the license was known fo the owners of the
cargo, if it was not the joint property of 'all. It is inconceivable that the. owne.r of the vessel should expend
about 1600 for the protection of a cargo in which it appears he was not largely conc rned, without communicating such an advantage tb hid shippers, and even iequir.
ing some reimbursement, either by demanding higher
freight, or compensation in some other way. But what
is conclusive on this point, is, that an order for further
proof in relation to this license was made, and yet no
affidavit or proof is offered by any of the owners, denying a knowledge of these documents being on board.
The decree must breversed, and the vessel and cargo
condemned to the captors as prize of war.

THE JOSEPH,

SARGEAXT, MASTER.,

THIS was the case of a vessel, the Joseph, owned

Cae ofronle

States. She arrived in Liverpool, and there discharged
her cargo.; and, on the 30th of June following,, with
another cargo, of mahogany, taken in at Hull, sailed
for St. Petersburg under the protection of a British ii-

the opinon of

by American citizens, captured by the privateer Fame trade. Not .
on the 16th of July, 1813. The Joseph sailed from Bos- ede t the
ton with a cargo nn freight, on or about the 6th dfaming findApril, 181% on a voyage to Liverpool and the north of to Pay th
Rurope, and thence directly or indirectly to the United ship; nor by
an

merican

t:nitr,
ex-

pressd to the
by sderta.

cense, granted on the 8th of June, isi2, authorizing ingthevoyage

SUPREME COURT U. S.
the export of mahogany to St. Petersburg, and the im'fz
osarn, portation of a return cargo to England. The brig arrived at St. Petersburg, and there received news of the
SARGEANT, war btween the United States and Great Britain.
MASTER. About the 20th of October, 181., she sailed from St.
Petersbur- for Londont with a cargo of hemp and iron

lie would vio-;n freight, consigned tp merchants in London ; and,
..
late no hRw of h...
she
the U. Statei. aving wintered in Sweden, in the spring of 1813
If an Ame)-sailed, under convoy instructions from the British ship

vesselonL'a Ranger,
Can
captured
.
"for

London, where she arrived and delivered

v,y- her cargo. About the 29th of May she sailed for the
ilvaitous
to the
ge
a United States, in ballast, under a British license; an'd
in U.
Sttes,

fo.mcr part of was captured, on the 16th of July,' at no great distance
wldvih voyag. fr6im Boston light-house. She was sent into the port of
Salem for adjudication, as priae.
she haa been
conguilty of

duct subjecting
het to conli, ation,

thoch At the
time

In the District Court of Massachusetts the claim of
the owners, Messrs. Dall and Vose, was rejected. and

of cp-the'property condemned to the United States.

From

decree the captors and Claimants appealed.
-In the Circuit Court the property was condemned to
Inustli, co
de.nned
VWhere the the captors. From 'this decree the Claimants and the
nothis
gonlnitting
act, she
illegal

gerniui

of

a

United States appealed.

voyage are al-

vLnd% fixed,
the Continuity
of such voyage

It was contended, on the part of the Claimants,

cannot e
1. That it was lawful, inJune, 18f2,
Len byvolunTAr.
master, to take the license to go from England
rthedeviation
of
forthemrpose Europe,'and to bring back a cargo

(before the war)

to the north of
to England.

minteirriediOil
Pf c'.rryiig

2. That the taking a freight from the north of Eui rope to England was from necessity, to obtain funds
"+ the. debts of the ship, the master not haying been
~tly to ppay
afl:
ofwr
ir-ze
tt trade

A capture
Tnav

be ,.ade with-

in the t'rritoIl bmit' 'of
the U. Sates,

able to sell the car

at St. Petersburg for any pric.

S.That the opinion of the minister of the United
at St. Petersburg, who told the captain of the

plae States
at anyIow-wa-jI
"below
eo

lo.w

Joseph that there was no law against his returning to
England under the protection ofhis license, and who
also sent dispatches by the Joseph to the government of
the United States, though he knew of the intention to
return v) England and.thence to the United States, was,
in- ff .t, a license, especially as to the claim of the
United States.

FEBRUARY TERM 1814.
Tim
4. That there was no trade with the enemy, but with
neutrals only; the freight having been taken on neutral JOSEPV#
SARaccount, in a neutral territery, and delivered to a neuGEA9T,
tral house in Great Britain.
MASTER.

5. That if any offence was committed, it-was corn-.pleted upon the delivery of the freight in Great Britain;
and that therefore the vessel was not 'liable to capture
or seizure, on that account, in a subsequent votage
from Great Britain to the United States.
6. That if she was liable to seizure for having adopted the' character of an enemy vessel by any act contrary to the allegiance of the owners, yet she was not
to be condemned as prize to the captors, as she was
coluntarily returning to the United States and her port
of discharge, and had actually arrived within the district of Massachusetts! That the capture, therefore,'
was not the occasion of her being brought in ; so that
If she was liable at all, even as enemies' property, thecondcmnation must be to the United States as a droit of
admiralty. But,
7. That the vessel was not liable to be condemned to
the United States, because the declaration of war was,
in effect, an invitation, if not a command, to the citizens
of the United States, abroad at the time, to return
home, afid the law allowed a reasonable time and way
to effect that return.
rITMAN,

for the captors, contended,

1. That the facts appearing in the case proved a
trading with the enemy, which subjected the vessel to
confiscation as prize.
2. That the vessel was not captured within the territorial jurisdiction of the United States: that this appeared from the preparatory examinations of the master and the mate, the first of whom stated "that he was
captured in sight of Half-way-rock, off Salem hai'bor,"
which was a marine league from the shore; and the
latter, " that the vessel was captured about two leagues
east from Boston light-house."

SUPREME COURT U. S.
THE
JosBrH,
BAR-

GEANT,
wASTER.,

3. That, though the fact be admitted as. contended
for by the Claimants, yet the raptors were authorized
by their commission to capture within the territorial
jurisdiction of the United States- on the hight seas,

which were stated in their instructions as extending to

low-water mark.

Wednzesday, J.arch 16th. Atbsent....MARSHALL, C. J.
WASHIINGTOW, J. after stating the facts of the case,
delivered the following opinion of the Court:

After the decision of this Court in the cases of the
.Rapidand of the ship .alexander, it is not to be contended that the sailing with a cargo, on freight, from St.
Petersburg to London, after a ft-il knowledge of the
wAr, did not amount to such a trading with the enemy
as to have subjected both the vessel and cargo to condemnation as prize of war, had she been captured whilst
proceeding on that voyage. The alleged necessity of
undertaking that voyage to enable the master out of the
freight to discharge his expenses at St. Petersburg,
countenanced, as the master declares, by the opinion of
our ininist, r at St. Petersburg, that by undertaking
grich a'vovage he would violate no law of the United
States, although these considerations, if founded in
truib, present a case of peculiar hardship, yet they afford no legal excuse which it is competent to this Court
to admit as the. basis of its decision. See the Hoop, I
R,!. Potts and Bell, 8 T. lep.
The counsel tor the Claimants seemed to be aware of
the insufficiency of 'this ground, And applied their
stren.th to show that the vessel was not taken in delicto,
having finished the offensive voyage in which she was
en-aged, at Lnidom, and being captured on her return
home and in, bdllast. It is not denid that ir she be
taken during the same voyage in-which the offience was
codritted,
though after it was committ-d, she is considered s being still in delicto, anAl subject to confiscation.; but it is contended that her voyage ended at London; and that-s.e was,.bn her return, emharked on. a
new v,,yage. This position is directly contrary to the
facts in the casp. The voyage. was an entire one from
the United States to England, thence to the north of

FEBRUARY TERM is1.
RW
Europe, and thence directly or indirectly to the United
States. Even admit that the outward and homeward Jose ny,
SAKvoyages could he separated, so as to render them two
distinct voyages, which is not conceded, still it cannot G.UANT,
be denied that the terminti of the homeward voyage were MASTESt. Petersburg and the United States. The continuity
ofsich a voyage cannot be broken by voluntary devia.
tiop of the master for the purpose of carrying on an intermediate trade. That the going from St. PI.tersburg
to London was not undertaken as a new voyage, is admitted by the Claimants, who allege that it was undertaken as subsidiary to their voyage to the Ujited
States. It was. in short. a voyage from St. Petersburg
tb the United Statcs by the way of London- and, consequently, the vessel, during any part -of that voyage,
if seized for conduct subj-ecting her to confiscation.as
prize of war, was seized in delicto.

Another objectior relied upon by the Claimants, is,
that this vessel was captured within the territorial limits
of the United States. The fact upon 'which this objection is raised is not clearly established one way or the
other. But admit it to be as contended for by the Claimants, the law is nevertheless against them. The commission granted to privateers authorizes them to sviie
and take any British vesspls found within the jurisdictionfl limits of the- United States, or elsewhere on the
high seas, and to bring them in for adjudication; and
also to (l.tain, seize mid take all vessels and elfects,. to
whorfisoever belonging, which shall be liable thereto accot-ding to the law of nations and the ri.lts of the
United States, as prize (f war. The first ins'uctions
giv,-n by the presidunt to the private armed vessels of
the United States, defino the high seas, ref'rred to in
the commission, to extend to low-water mark, w tf1 the
exception of the space of one league, or t .ree iftiles.'froni
the shore of countries at peace with Great Britain-or
thte United States. The general expressions of the c6mmission, explained by these instructions, and containing
no exception hut in relation to friendl& powers, prove
incontestibly that all captures as prize of war may lawfulhl be made within the territorial limits of the United
States, at any place below lcw-water mark.
The Court is also of opinion that there is no weighT

SUPREME COURT U. S.
orms in another objection made by the Claimants, that this
.7osnrFn, vessel was on her way and near to an American port
SIRat the time she was captured. The right of the captor
GE ANT, to the property which he may seize as prize of war is
MASTER. derived under his commission, which is general and tin.--qualified as to place and circumstances, and not from
any peculiar merit which he may claim in any particular case. It is not for him to know whether a yesseI
which has offended against the law of nations, and is
apparently destined 1o a port of the United States, will
certainly enter the port: and certainly he is bound by
no law to forego the opprtuity which chance or his
own vigilance may have presented to him to acquire.
property which, under his commission, he is authorized
to appropriate to himself.
Decree affirmed.

THE VROTIUS, SHEIAFE, MASTER.
Question as to
the
vdity
oe
rapture
; 0ne0o

APPEAL from the sentence of the Circuit Court

r the district of Massachusetts.

nuanonly har-

og be a . hUt The Grotius, an American ship owned
bipris
phper Sheafe and Charles Coffin, the Claimants,
andthea'gatmuh

tionofthe.eigP
Potsmouth, New Hampshire, March

by Thomas

sailed from

2d, 1812, on a

sel being left voyage, according to the shipping paper, from Porteto the m-ster- mouth to one or more southern ports, and from thence
Further proof to
ope or more ports in Europe, and back to her port
orered.

of discharge in the United States, and to Portsmouth, if
required. She arrived at New York, and sailed from
thence with a cargo for St. Petersburg, and arrived at
Cronstadt on the l7th of l.une, 18i.
The cargo was
owned by American merthants, and wyas consigl-ned to a
house at St. Petersburg. The consignees furnished a
return cargo on the credit of the outward cargo. After
the return caigo was put on board, the French armies
having entered Russia and threatening to approach St.
.Petersburg, the consignees were appriihensive that their
security for the return cargo might be lost. They arrested the ship and cargo, and would not permit her to

