SUPREME COURT U. S.
CRoWELL any district to stop and detain any vessel which might
& OT.HERs be passing through his district, if he really suspected
T.
her of an intention to violate the pr6visions of the emMFADoN.

bargo laws.
Feb. 28th....DUvALL, J.* after stating the facts of the
case, delivered the opinion of the Court as follows:
,, This Court is unanimously of opinion that the direction of the judge of the Supreme Judicial Court of
Massachusetts was erroneous. The law of congress
under which the collector acted is clear and explicit.
The collector was bound by law to seize and detain the
Union, on her arrival in his district, if, in his opinion,
it was the intention to violate or evade any of the provisions ,of the embargA laws, and his conduct was ,ap.
proved and confirmed by the president. The landing and
storing the cargo, whether to preserve it from injury or
to secure it from ruin, (which, in this case, was done
with the consent of the agent of the owner,) was a necessary consequence of the detention. The law places
a confidence in the opinion of the officer, and he is bound
to act according to his opinion; and when he honestly
exercises it, as he must do in the execution of his duty,
be cannot be punished for it.
The judgment of the Court below is reversed ivith
costs.

1811.

BEIkATTY'S ADMI.NISTRArORS
BURNES'S ADMINISTRATORS.

J.bsent..,. NYASHINGTON, Jo
ERROR to the Circuit Court for the district of
ulimi- Columbia, .sifting at Washington.

of' and
TI5eMar~d
statue

Jtwns LivxxGS'."o

was absent when this opinion was delivered.

JuDon

Stoy gave no opinibnt,having some impression that he was, at a former pe.rlod, retained -as counsel in the cause, although he did not remernber argt-

FEBRUARY TERM i814.
The case as stated by SToRY, . in deliveiing the BEATTY'S
ADM'IS.
-opinion of the Court, was as follows:
V.

This is an action for money had and received brought BuRuzs's
by the Plaintiffs as administrators of Charles Beatty, - AnDM's.
deceased, against the Defendant as administrator of Da- --vid Burnes, deceased. The declaration alledges thepro- tatonsotthIoc
raise to have been made in the life time of tie respective bar.ato a Fg-e

intestates.

The Defendant has pleaded the, general is- "sitonofum-P.
for, money

sue, and the statute of limitations of Maryland.

hadandreceiv-

Upon the trial in the Circuit Court for, the distr
of Columbia, the Plaintiffs sought to support thbir action under the 5th section of the statute of Maryland,
of X'OV. i791, ch. 4 , concerning the territory of C91-

try a tliO to
cit. of Wash.

follows:

ch 45.

ed brought to

ington, under
the 5th sect,
act of
or 'theland,
of

umbia, -and the city of Washinton, that section is as 31try.a17,
Queoe,

whe-

by the
"And be it ewzted, That all the squares, lots, pieces .lier,
Mayland ,act
"and parcels of land within the said city, which have of cession' of
been or shall he appropriatcd for the ue of the Uni- the district, of
61

Columbia to
"ted. States, and also the streets shall remain, and be the U. stats,
the
and
lots
the
all
and
"for the use of the United States;
veyeidstateto cotithe

parcels which have been or shall be sold to raise oo- United States
"ney as a donation as aforesaid, shall remain and be to the vacant and
"the purchasers according to the terms and Conditions ted ladinthe

of their respective purchases."

" And purchases and leases from private persons
"claiming to be proprietors and having, or those under
• whom they claim having, been in possession of the
" lands purchased or leased, in their own right, five
- whole years next before the passing of this act, shall
9- be good and effectual for the estate, and on the terms
," and conditions of such purchases and leases respectively, without impeachment, and against auy contra"ry title now existing; I ut if any person hath made a
"conveyance, or shall make a conveyance or lease, of
, any lands within the limits of the said city, not hay,, ing right and title to do so, the person, who might be
-' entitled to -recover the land under a contrary title
", vow existing, may, either by way of ejectment against
", the tenant, or in an action for money had and receiv,
"ed for 'his use against the bargainor or lessor, his
-heirs, executors, administrators or devisees, as the
- case may require, recover all money received by him

district?

i0o
3EATTY'S
AD,'RS.

v.

"for the squares, pieces or parcels appropriated for
,,the use of the United States, as well as for lots or
"parcels

BURNES'S "
ADMR.

....

SUPREME COURT. U S.

sold, and rents received by the'person not

having title as aforesaid, with interest from the time

"of the receipt; and on such recovery in ejectment
..-where the land is in lease, the tenant shall thereafter
" hol under, and pay the rent reserved, to the person
"making title to and recovering the land, but the pos,session, bona fide acquired, in none of the said caes
" shall be changed."
The Plaintiffs offered evidence, that on the16th of April,

1792, Charles Beatty, the intestate returned into the

land office for the Western Shore of Maryland, a certificate of survey dated on the 3d of April, 1792, and
then paid the usual caution money for the land described in said certificate, On the 23d May, 1792, a
caveat agaiist the issuing of a patent for the lands on
said certificate, was fild by David Burnes the intestate, which caveat was discontinued on the 23d of May,
1801, by virtue of a certain act of the state of Maryland. On the same day a patent issued from the land
offie to Charles Beatty for the land described in said
certificate, which land is within the limits of the city of
'ashungtin, and was taken up by Beatty as a vacancy;
but Beatty never had actual possession thereof, nor ever
claimed to make division thereof with the city commis.
sioners as an original proprietor pursuant to the statute
of Maryland, 1791, ch. 45. In fact the same land had
been held and claimed by David Burnes in his own right,
for more than five years before the passing of the statute aforesaid, as included in the lines of a grant made
as early as 1720. The Plaintiff offered evidence however that the land included in Beatty's patent, waa
without the lines of the land to which Burnes was, under
his grant, really entitled, and that it was vacant land of
the state of Maryland. The warrant, under which
Beatt 's patent was obtained, was, (before the location
within the limits of Wahington,) in part located upon
and applied to other lands of the state of Maryland, not
within the said city, or the county in which it was situate while bel.)nging to Maryland. Burnes in his lifo
time, and bef(i'e the stattite of 1791, cl. 15, made a conveyance of the land in controversy as an original proprietor to certain trustees for the purposes named in

FEBRUARY TERM 1314.
that statute, and received of the city commissioners on BEATTY'S
account of parts of the same land appropriated to city ADM'RS.
purposes, the sum of B 7,343 82. in various sums paid
IV.
between October, 1792 and June, 1796; and also receiv- BURNEs's
ed $ 1,000 on account of other parts of said land which .ADM'R.
he sold and conveyed to individuals. Burnes died in
May, 1799, and administration of his estate was granted ,n Prince George's county, in the same year to his
widow, who died in January, 1807. In April, 1803,
administration of his estate was granted to the Defenfant, by the Orphan's Court of Washinrgton county, in
the district of Columbia. Beatty died scmetime before
May,1805, and in that month administration of his cstate
was granted to the PlaintiffM. The liesenit action is
brought, to recover the money so received by Burnes,
upon the ground that it was the proceeds of the sale
and disposition Of land included in Beatty' patent. No
demand orclaim was ever made by Beatty on Burnes
or his administrators, in his life time, for the same
money, although both parties from the. year 1791,
until their respective deaths lived within the limits of
the district of Columbia and within two miles of each
o6ther-nor did the Plaintiffs ever make any demand
or claim upon the' Defendant t-ntil February, 1810.
Under these circumstances the Court below were of opinon that the Plaintiffs could not sustain the action, and
upoh that direction the jury found a verdict for the Defendant.
F. S. KEY, for the Plaintffs i7i error.
Two questions arise in this case.
ist. Whether the Plaintiffs have a good cause of action under the patent to lBeatty, if not barred by the
statute of limitations : and
Vd. Whether the statute of limitations is a bar to the
action.
1. as to the title of Beatty. The caveat by Burnes
was pending when Congress assumed the jurisdiction
over the district of Columbia, which was on the 27th of
February, 18011 The patent did -not issuc until the
S8d May, 1801, but according to the law ot Maryland,

SUPREME COURT U. S.
NE9.ATTY'S
ADM'Rs.

adopted as the law of that part of the district of Colum-

bia in which the land lies, the title has relation to the

V.
retu!'n of the .certificate of survey and payment of the
3 RN~S's purchase money to the state, if the original warrant of
ADW'R.

survey was general-but if it was a special warrant,
the title relates to the date of the warrant. That is to
say, in either case the title relates to that Act of the par-'
ty which appropriates and locates a particular tract of
land under a warrant of survey. Beatty had two warrants. The first w'as a special warrant for 8'0 acres,
and was dated the, 22d of April, i79i, before the statute
of Maryland of i79f,' which ceded the territory of Columbia to tle United States., The other warrant was
for 6 arces, and was dated the 26th of March, 1792. A
special warrant 'contains the name of the county in
which it is to be executed, and ,also such a location, or
description of the land intended to b:- surveyed, as the
party directs It binds and secures the laud, therein
described, from the. operation of other warrants, but it
may be located any where else. A common warrant is
for the number of acres reijuired, "not formerly surveyed for, noi' cultivated by any person," and is directed to any surveyoi' legally required. Killy's Landholder's ASssistaut, 40,.
Beatty's title relates (if notto the date of the first
wcrrant)" to the date of the return of the certificate of
survey, and payment of the parchase money which was
on the i6th of April, 1792.
Nothing but the form of a grant was necessary to
complete the title before congress assumed the jurisdic.
tion.
But it is contended, that 'the ,state of Maryland, by
the 2d section of the act of Allov. 1791, ch. 45, ceded to
the United States the land in question. That section is
as follows: "6Be it enacted," &c. ' that all that part of
"the said territory, called Columbia, which lies within
c!he limits of this state, shall be, and the same is here" by acknowledged to be, forever ceded and relinquish-. ed to the congress and government of the United
States, in full and absolute'right and exclusive juris,diction, as -well of soil, as of persons residing, or to
-re reside, thereon, pursuant to the' tenor, and effect of

FEBRUARY TERM 18L .
" the eil,t section of the first article of the constitution BEATTIS
"of g,vernment of the United States; provided that A]Umr'ts.
T.
" nothiinX herein contained shall be so construed to vest
"' in the United States any right of property in the soil, BuRNEs's
",as to affect the rights of individuals therein, other- AD'R.
"wise than the same shall or may be transferred by --"such individuals to the United States; and provided
,,"also that the jurisdiction of the laws of this state,'
",over the persons and property of individuals residing
"'within the limits of the cession aforesaid, shall not
cc cease or determine until congress shall by law provide
"c for the government thereof, under their jurisdiction,
"c in manner provided by the article of the constitution
61 before recited."
This section did not transfer to the United States the
vacant lands in the district of Columbia.
The 8th section of the 1st article of the constitution
of the United States only gave congress power ,,to ex,,ercise exclusive legislation over such district (not exceeeding 10 miles square) as may, by cession of par,cticular states, and the acceptance of congress, become
",the seat of the government of the United States." It
did not authorize congress to accept the right of soil.
The act of Maryland does not use words of conveyance
of soil. They purport oly a cession of jurisdiction.
, eded and relinquished" are not words of grant. If
they conveyed the soil they conveye4 the persoms also,
for tihe same words are applied to them as to the soil.
The legislature of Maryland were not competent to convey the soil, and it is doubtful whether they could transfer the jurisdiction. A title to vacant lands in this part
of the district could only he attained by the regular proceedings in the land office of Maryland.
2. .s to the statute .flimitations.
The action of assumpsit given by the 5th section of,
the act of .Vov. 1791, c. 45, is not to .be considered as

withire the clause of the statute of limitations applicable
to assumpsi:,. It purports to be a substitute for qn action of cjectment, which is limited to 2O, not td 3 years.
It is evident that the object of the legislature was merely to protect the possession, not to take vaway the right.

SUPREME COURT U. SJ
1iBATTY'S

AD. 'RS.

"1V.

ft is therefore natural to suppose that they intended
that every person who' could maintain ejectment should

be entitled to maintain this action of assumpsit which

and only given that the judguRN.ES'S was given in lieu of it,
ADMWR.

ment might affect the vendor and not the vendee; and
that the Plaintiff should recover the price and not the
land itself. The statute applied to conveyances and
sales-then already made as well as to conveyances and
sales thereafter to be made. Suppose a sale made more
than three years before the statute. 'he legislature
did not surely intend to give a barred remedy in the
place of an effective one. An action*of debt given by
statute for an escape'is not barred by the statute of
limitations.
But this is a case of trust, and trusts are not within
the statute of limitations. Burnes received the money
for the use of Beatty. In a case of trust, the statute
does not begin to run till a demand is made. On this
point there is a case of money received by an attorney
tr his client; aud another of fees received for a judge
by his clerk. We could not prevent Burnes from receiving the money. The law, therefore, makes him our
trustee.
JoNEs, contra.

It is said that the legislature of Maryland was not
competent to convey the soil, and that congress, had no
power to accept it.
Exchlsive legislation comprehends all the rights over
the territory and inhabitants which the state of Maryland had. If, therefore, the authority rested upon those
words alone, the right to accept a cession of the soil
would be implied. The constitution, of tle United
States requires a cession of territory before congress
could exercise exclusive legislation. The constitution of
Maryland does not limit the mode in, which the state
shall grant its vacant lands. It is competent to do it
by a legislative act as well as by the intervention of
the, land office. But the constitution of the United
States is paramount to the constitution of Maryland as
to the cession of the district of ten miles square. It authorizes particular states to cede as well as Congress
to accept.

FEBRUARY TERM 1814.
The 2d section of the act of Maryland, 1791. C. 45, BEATTY'S

has sufficient words to pass the. right of soil as well as ADm'Rs

of jurisdictiun. It declares "1that all that part of the
v.
territory, called Columbia, which lies within the limits BuRINEs's
of this state shall be, and the same is hereby acknow- ADM'R.
ledged to be, forever ceded and relinquished to the congress and government of the United States, in full and
absoluth right"- of soil," and c,full-and absolute" " exclusive jurisdiction" " of persons residing," &c. with a
proviso that the right of soil should not so vest in the
United States as to affect the flights of individuals therein. This implies an intention that the right of soil
should vest in the United States wherever the rights of
individuals should not be affected thereby. It is' not
only clear, therefore, that the state was competett to'
convey, and has used sufficient words of conveyance;
but it is equally clear that it was its intntion to con.
vey, and that it has conveyed to the United States all
its lands which were vacant at the date of the act, (19th
December, 1791.) It follows, therefore, that on the 3d
of April, 1792, the date of the survey, the state of Maryland had no vacant lands in the district of.Columbia,
liable to be surveyed under the warrant.
The act of 1791 gives the action only to a person
whose title then existed, (19th Dec. 1791.) Beatty's
title relates back no farther than the 16th of April,
i792, the date of the returip of the certificate of survey,
and the payment of the money to the sthte.
2. As to the statute of limitations. We admit that
when a statute gives an entire new cause of tctio, it
may not be barred by the act of limitationg. But this
statute only gives a new form of remedy upo-n an old
cause of action. The declaration does not purport to
be founded on the statute. It contains mily a general
count for money had and received to the Plaintiff's use.

As to a trust not being NvIthin the act of limitations,
the cases on that point arg all in equity. But here there,
was notrust. The parties were adverse Claimants.
F., S. Kr, in, reply,
1. The state o1 Maryland had spvereign rights, and
VOL. VIII.
11

SUPREME COURT U. S.
private rights. She meant to grant only her sovereign
She p.esumed that all the soil had-been grantv.
ed to indiviouals. and that there was no vacant land in
BuPNE 's th. district. The terms she used are appropriate to a
A4 u. transler of jurisdiction only.

9tHATTV'S

.AMI'ns, rghts.

The 3d section of the act of 1791 is conclusive that
she did not mean to convey her private rights. By
that secti: n the lot- in Carrollsburgh and Hamburgh,
(small villages included within the lines of the city of
WVashmlgton) wbhi h were the property of the state, were
subjected to the same terms of trust as the other lots in
the city. That is to say, one hall' thereof was to be reconveyed to the state, and the other half to be sold for
the use of the public.
The constitution of Maryland speaks of the land of-

fice, and thereby continues all the rules and laws of that

office. No lands could pass from the state but through
the forms of the land office.
Beatty's title relates back at least as far as the 16th
of April, 1792. But the special warrant w'as prior to
the act of 1791, and tLe proviso of that statute saves all
the rights of individuals, so that if Beatty had a right
to locate is warrant in the city before the date of the
act, that a(t did not-deprive him of that right. He had
a contrary titile then existing. But if he had not, the
statute had, and lie claims as her assignee.

The statute did not mean to exclude the heirs and assigns ot those who then had title from the benefit of the
remedy provided.
2. As to the statute of limitations. Burnes received
the money as trustee. When lie received it he knew of
Beatty's claim. I Saund. 37, 383. 1 Bac. .b. 172.
PzNliwzy, as amicus curiw,
Stated that he bad never heard of the. rz .a:ion
of title
being carried farther back than to the crtificate of survey; even on a special warrant: for, although special,it may be located any where,

FEBRUARY TERM
Jfarchist. .bsent....JOHNSON,

i4t4,

-107

.and LiviNGSTON,

. BEA.TTT'"
ADM''.

STORY, J. after stating the case, delivered the opinion of the Court as follows:

It is contended by the Plaintiffs in error that the direction of the Circuit Court was errdneous, 1. Because
the Plaintiffs' intestate had a good an(I valid title to the
land surveyed under his patent, and was, therefore, entitled under the 5th section of the Maryland statute of
1791, to the money received by thd Defendant's intestate therefor. 2. That this right was not barred by th(
statute of limitations.
In support of the first point the Plaiiftiffs contend
that the land belonging to the statedid not, 4y the cession of the territorial jurisdiction under the statute of
1791, pass to the United States, and was consequently
liable to be appropriated by individuils under warrants
pursuant to the lawrs of Maryland. That until 1801'
the jnrisdiction of Maryland continued over the whole
ceded territory; and titles, therefore, might legally be
acquired therein according to the public laws: and tWe
patent of Beatty, being obtained in pursuance -of those
laws, gave him a complete and valid ti:le.
On. the other hand the Defendant denies each of
these positions, and further contends, that the. Plaintiffs are without the purview of the, 5th -section of the
act of 1791, because that section extends only tfx titles

then existing, and Beatty's title did niot commence until
April, 1792.
It is not necessary to consider the correctness of the
positions urged by the respeciive parties as to this point,
because we are of opinion that the case may well,be decided upon the second point.
The action for money had and received is clearly em.
braced by the statute of limitations ; and it is incuinbent upon the Plaintiffs to show that the present cast
forms an exception to its operation.
It is contended that the present suit, being a statuteremedy, is not within fhe purview of the statute of limi-

v.

DU2REs's
ADM'R.

--

SUPREME COURT U. S.
BEATTY'S
ADM'Rs.

v.
BUmINs's

AM'R.

tations.- But we know of no difference in this particu.
lar between a common law and statute right. Each
must be pursued according to the general rule of law,
unless a different rule be prescribed by statute;- and
where the remedy is limited to a particular form of action, all the general incidents of that actiommust attach
upon it. Upon any other construction it would follow
that the case would be without' any limitation at all ;
for it would be quite impossible, upon any acknowledged principles, when a right had assumed the shape of a
claim in personam, to attach to it a limitation which exclusively applied to the reality. Now the statute of
limitations has been emphatically declared a statute of
repose, and we should not feel at liberty to break in
upon its general construction by -allowing an exception
which has not acquired the complete sanction of authority.
It-is further contended, that by the operation of the
act of 1791, ch. .5.Burnes nmst be considered as a
mere trustee of Beatty, and trusts are not within the
statute of liinitatiotis. We are 'of a different opinion.
The land in controversy was claimed by Burnes in his
own right, and adversely to the Plaintiffs' intestate.
The money was received by him for his own use and
in his okvn right'as an original proprietor, He never
admitted~or acknowledged the title of the Plaintiff, and
no claim or demand was ever made upon him i his
lif(! time. So far'then from being received in trust, it
was expressly received under a peremptory denial of
any trust or right in the opposite party. Nor was the
statute meant to make, the adverse possessor without
title a trustee for the party having title. It nly substituted the action of assumpsit for the ordinlary legal
remindy by ejectment; and the adverse possessor of the
land could n6 more be deemed a trustee of the money,
than he could be deemed a trustee of the land itself, for
the beneft of the rightful owner, against whom he held
hy an ad,'erse title.
The Court are, therefore, of opinion that the statute
of limitations is a good bar, and, therefore, that the
.Judgment must be affirmed.

