FEBRUARY TERM i8i4.

THE ALEXANDER, PIC.

,

MASTER.

TMIS was an appeal from the sentonce of the Cir- -vesel,owrn,1,
ruit Court for the distAict of Massachasetts.
Thlitcd.
,ftihe
"tares,
•
-,Iih

The following were the material facts in the case:

de,
forNi
in the yeal*
,
1,12 or the
IT,
Ilaa States,
c~urgo
x0itlt

sailThe brig Alexander, William S.
,1
"
o master,
oo Picket,
a .1
ed from Naples, on the 22d June. 181-, with a cat,r.o "it
of brandy, win'e. and cream of tartar, with a British i- ikeSe to carake
cense. to carry the same fl'om Nap! -sto England. Shie to Englatid.
touched at Gibralter, and there left lwr deck-load, con- o, Ilr pasfront thence. for the Uni
sisting of brandy, and siiieii
"Y iet't
( h, hearing
ar had
~~~.
ted States. On the 3d of Auzust, 1812, she recive(1 blokenrutbeintelligence of the War between tho Uniled States and t".ere Great
B36(iiiiandthe
Stites,
Great Britain, and changed her courms for En 6 land. Uriiied
iltcrs her.
She was afterwards captured by the British, andl sPnt slh,
into Cork. IFahnd, and acquitted, and thera',dispogcd c nti-eifor
of her cargo. After seven months delention in Cork, c,,ptwI by
site proceeded to Liverpool, in haliant. At Liverpool.,h- n,.:';sh,
ibe
lfo.
s'Wie took in the cargo in qji'estmio, purchased by Samuel
and acWelles, on" (ifthle Claimiants, then in ],.ngland, from qli,,
upon
qltted
and-hr
the pwoceeds of the cargo brought
license;
• ' from Naples, ",
sailed fron Liv,,)rpol for Bos4on, M ay - b,ists. On-st-lshereargo,
aterofade.
,,l.
sethe !2dof June tllowing. she was captured by the priva- teliion
teer America, John Kehew, commander, and libelled, as ,,mths ia
purIreland,
prize, in the district of Massaclhusetts,
chases a re
trcrgo in

When the Alexander sailed fi'om Naples, shte and,her

one l.alf by" the Claimants, and
cargo were oxined,
•

crgoin

theaiis
forStatec,
'Ie
-"-United
ad is captur-

other half by W. and S. Robinson, of New York.

Unted
ed
bya priyaStaites'
,q_1.-

The mast'r, on his examination upon the standing ,,r. Vesel
interrogatorio's, stated that ihe vessel belonged to J. and nvi catgo con-

S. Welles and W. and S. Robiison.

•

as
(jImned
prize
to the
captors.

goo,
tl,ou ;h onlya
He also stated that, on his arrival in the United ('zpture
mnaster
States, lie delivered to the chief clerk of J.and S. Welles, irize
of Boston. bigs of ladhig, invoices and letters relating ijut on board
to the 'vessel and goods. These papers were never pi oduced by the Claimants.

John jWelles, of Ioston, claims the vessel and carg
1
VOL.VIfI.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
T iE
ALEXXN-

for himself and Samuel Welles, alleging that Samuel

Welles, in London, purchasetl, on their joint account,
of the agent of W. and S. Robinson, their half of the
rciKET, brig and the proceeds of the Naples' cargo, before the
rAsTER. purchase of the cargo in qpestion. The United States,
also, interp,sed a claim to the vessel and cargo, as forfeited under thc non-importation act.
DER,

In the district Court the claim of 3. and S. Welles
was rejected, and the property condemned to the United
States. Prom this decree the captors and Clainiants
appealed.
In the Circuit Court the property was condemned to
the captors. From this decree the United States and
the Claimants appealed.
Rusu, .Attorney General, stated that it was not the
intention of government to interpose.
DEXTLU,

for Claiimants.

There being no general rule -of the law of nations.
that every trading with the enemy is unlawful, and
there being no municipal law on the subject, an American citizen, surprized abroad by an unexpected war,
has a right to use all necessary means to save his property dnd to securehis return home, provided the means
used for that purpose be not inconsistent with the interest of the nation to which he belongs. All the means
employed in the present case were necessary' to save
the property in question: and were so far from being
inconsistent with the interest of the United States, that
they clearly tended to the national benefit.
That there is no general rule of the law of nations
prohibiting all trade with the enemy, is a proposition
which probably will hot be controverted. Even sir
Villiam Scott does not deny the right to withdraw funds,
upon the breaking out of a war; he allows that cases
of this kind are entitled to be treated with indulgence:
he only holds, that if a particular mode of withdrawing
funds has been prescribed by the municipal law, as by
license, for instance, the person who Tursues a different
mode is punishable. He has, however, expressly de-

FEBRUARY TERM -8iU.
cided, that where circumstances rendered it impossible
Tg
for the party to obtain a license, there the propcrty -AEXAishall not Ib condemned, if it be a case where a license
DFnr,
ought to have been granted, if applied for. 2, Rob. ?1CKET,
1261, 322, the Harzoty. 3, Rob. 37, 38, the Citto. 5, MASTEr.
RJob. 90, the Ocean. 4, Rob. 193, 231, the Dree Gebroeders.
No mai- is bound, on the breaking out of a war, to
abandon his property to the enemy ; and if no tribunal
is established to decide in what casog property shall or
shall not be withdrawn, every. man must judge for
himself.
In the case of Hallet -v. Jenks, 3, Cranch. 2t0; there
was an entire prohibition of trade ; a prohibition noi
complete than any one which results from an, provi
sion of the law of nations ; yet this Couit decided, in
that case, that tle party beiog forced into the prohibited
port, and obliged by the public authorities of the place
to sell, he might purchase a return cargo. fit the
present case, the captain of tile Alexander, hearing of
the, war and believing it impossible t0 reach tl'he Uheild
States without capture, conceived himself to be under
the necessity of changing his course ir England, or
losing his vessel and cargo ; and, having a license, lie determined to deceive the enemy. Being captured by a
British cruizer and cai'ried into Ireland, he was libelled,
but acquitted upon his license. He was compelled to
sell his cargo. Whn-at was lie to do with the proceeds?
Suppose he had sold for bank bills-must lie bring them
to this country ? Ilie couhl not bring specie; it is prohibited. The ony way -in which lie could withdraw
his pr'operty was tW purchase a return cargo and obtain
another license. This course lie pursued and we conceive that lie was perfectly justi -d in so doing. The
motives for Nithdrawing his property, after ac-quitted,
-%;ere strong, one among others which might he mentioned was the danger that the deception he had practiced
upon the enemy would be detected.
2. But. allo"ing, for the sake of argument, that sailing to England after a knowledge of the war, would have
been an illegal act--- it ik clear, in this case, that there
was no sailing to England; there wi s only an inten-

SUPREME COURT U. S.
tion to go thither : and it is a well known rule of law
that the'bare intention to coijimit an illegal act is not
DERI,
punisIable. Again, it cannot be contended that the
PICKET, sailing to Ireland was illegal, as the vessel was forci-

THE
ALEXA--

MASTER.

bly carried in there by the enemy.
3- This is a case, which comes within the additional instruction of *the president of the United
States to our public aud private armed vessels, issued
August ,8th, iSl.
That instruction prohibits the interrptioni, by our public and private armed vessels, of
,,any vessels belongi,g to citizens of the United States,
coning from British ports, to the United States laden
wit h British nierchandize, in consequence of the alleged
rep,.al of the British orders in council." Kehew, the
commander of the p'ivateer, h.d received this instruction..
As to the power of the president to issue such instructions, there can be no doubt. Even if there
were no act of Congress 'relating to the subject,
the general p;)wei' of the executive to direct all hostile
operations, gives him the particilar power in question.
But con-ress has sanctioned the instruction in question
by the provis contained in the 1st sec. of the act of 13th
July, 1.8i3. La-ws U. States, -vo. 12, p. 16.
But it will be said, perhaps, tnat this instruction is
applicable only to vessels sading from a British port
after the repeal of the orders in council, and befot
the knowle'ge p , the war. SucL a construrtion is
erraneous. By the act of congress last mentioned
it is pro ided. That nothing in the said act con
tained shall extend to any capture made by private armevd ssl,s, in violation of' the additional instructions if
the plrsitient of 28th Aug. 18.1z, after the captor ,,shall
7ave been" a pprized thereof. From the use of the phrase.
shall have been," it is clear that the instructions were
inforee as late as the date of the act of i3th July,i. c.
ncarIly .ay,'ar after the, instructions in question were
fist givei'by the presidiit. Government also continued to issue thPse iustructions to the privaters, up to
the, time of tho trial of this cause in the district Court,
and afierwards. Now to what vessels coming from a
British port and ladeki with British merchandize, cold

FEBRUARY TERM 1ik.
those instructions apply which were issued more than
THE
; year aftdr the declaration'of war ? Surely not to Yes- ALEXANsets which saile4 while the orders in council were supDE)E,
posed to be repealed, and which. had not he.d of the PICKET,
war: it would be absurd to sappose that there were MAs~E'.
any such, so long after the event had taken place. The
istructior.s, therefore, must be considered as having
beien originally intended to apply to vessels sailin.g 'with
a knowledge of the war, as well as to those sailin.- without that knowledge. Again, what was th6 great object
government had in view in ijsflng these instructions ?

No dobt to give our citizens an opportunity of withdrawing their property from the enemy's country, and
bringing it to the United States. Our citizens had
immense funds in England. The whole commercial
capital of the United States was there. It was aii o6ject of vast importance to get it home; and so long.as
Great Britain would permit us to wvithdraw it, it was
'.ur interest to afford te our citizens every possible fiacility in aid of that permission. This Nias the p'licy
of our government, and this the source of the instructiongs.
3. This was not a capture .ure belli. The eruizer
was af'aid of running the risk of damnages for an illegal
capture. An understanding was, therefore, had between the parties, which was considered as being mutually, beneficial, that the captor should preserve his
clah to any 'British goods ,ihich might be found on
board, and that th. residue should remain to the Claimants. A sin.-le man only, not a prize crew, was puton board the Alexander. The prize master alone was
utterly unable to secure the vessel against a rescue,
should one be attempted. lie was ;'tterly unable to
bring her into port, without the aid ca the hands origimtlly belonging to her. How, then. can it be conside;red as a capture ? But if the Court should finally decide it, to be a Captilre, we shall contend that it was only
partial. a rapture or the British goods only.
PITMA,., contra, cont(nded, on behalf of the captors,

1. That Samuel Welles being in England at the time
of the purchase of the cargo, he is to be presumed there
nimo manendi, and is clothed witl a British character.

SUP1EME COURT U. S.
THE

1LEXATXDER,

PICKET,

2. That the suppression of papers connected with the
origin of the voyage, affords a sufficient presumption of
a concealment of enemy interests, to subject the vessel
and cargo to condemnation.

MASTER.

3. That the vessel and cargo, being taken in trade
with the enemy, are condemnable to the captors as enemy's property.

As to the first point. It appearing that S. Welles was
residing in England at the time of the jpurchase of the
property in question, it is incumbent on him to explain
the circumstances of his residence there. Tlis has
not been done. The presumption, then, must be that
lie was in England animo manendt; tiat the property
was, of courve, hostile and liable to condemnation. 1.
nob. 87, 103. The Bernan.
On the second point littie need be said. Suppression
of papers is always a suspicious circumstance. In the
present case it will, no doubt, have its due weight with
lie, Court.,
Third point. That here was an actual trading with
the eneny, the claimants do not attempt to deny; but
they would justify it on the ground of necessity. They
say thit the ves5el was captured by the enemy and cartied into Ireland, where she was compelled to scll her
cargo, and. had no other means of securing the proceedq,
but by laying them out in the purchase of British goods.
This ph:a of necessity comes with a very bad grace
from the Claimants. If there were any necessity, it was
eit voluntarily brought upon themselves. They volun.
tarily,, ind. as we contend, unnecessarily, placed themselves and their properiy in the power of the enemy, after a knowledge of the war ; andcan therefore claim no
indulgence on the ground of necessity.
The ,'ases whichl have been cited in which sir WilmlinScott speaks with indulgence of withdrawing
funds, are inapplicable to the present case. Where
-the withdrawing of funds is spoken of, those funds only
Are meant which were in the enemy's country bef.re the
war; which was not the case here. Besides. the cases
cited depend not on trade with the enemy, but on doinicil.

FEBRUARY TERM

8I4.

175

A license to withdraw the property would not have been
granted in such a case as the present, in England. The
president of the United States, acting on English principles, could not have sranted a license, supposing him
to have the same power in relation to the subject Which
the king of England has. But he has no such power.
Congress has not invested him with it, though they
might have d-ne so; and this Court, it is presumed,
will not undertake to say that the present 'is a case in
which a license would have been granted, supposing the
president to have possessed the power. No such power,
then, having been granted by congress, it is to be presumed that they did not intend there should be any exception to the general rule, that trade with the enemy is
unlawful.
But it has been urged that this case comes within the
president's instructions of 28th of August, and that
this capture, being in vio!atiin of those instructions,
is void. The vessels contemplated by those instructions*
are described as vessels coming from British ports, "in
consequence (f the alleged repeal of the British orders it.
council." Now it is clear that the Alexander did not
sail from the enemy's port in consequence of that alleged
repeal ; she canot, therefoie. be within the meaning of
the instructions.
The delivery of the instructions to cruizers, after the
case contemplated by tiem no longer existed, is quite
unimportant, notwithsta-ifin.g the great stress which
has been laid upon tbat circumstanice by the Claimants. Tle thing is very easily accounted for. The
imstructions may have continued to be issued through
mere inattention : but the counsel for the Claimants, in
the explanation mhich he has attempted, has given to
them a construction in direct hostility both with their
letter and spirit..... See letter from the secretary of state
to Mr. Rtissel, of August 21, Ift2, accompanying the
1812.
president's message of Dec.
It has been also contended that there was no capture.
But here is the property before the Court, and we trust
they will not restore it, unless non-capture be fully proved ; and even then there can be no restoration unless
the Claimants prove their right: which they have nut

*rnn
AxAx D EE,
PICKET,
MASTER.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
TEm
yet done. They have produced no title papers, no
ALExKN- documents whatever, proving property in themselvs.
DLR,

PICKET,

On this point -of non-captre, which was insisted on

MASTER. in the Courts below, the District Court ordered further

proof. We tontend,
1. That as the preparatory examinations prove a capture, no further proof should have been ordered
2. That the further proof establishes the fact of ie
capture.
S. That the proof upon this order oiTred by the Claimants, was inadmissible, being the d(epositions of the
captain and mate, who were examined in pr'eparatory.
As to the putting no prize crew on board, that is a
circumstance which in no degree ahers the nature of
the case; it is not essential to capture. The capture
is always made before either a prize master or crew
are put on board ; and if the, circumnstances of the
captured vessel be such as to do away all apprehension
of rescue, and inspire confidence that the ('rew will
bring her into port, there is no reason wh) the prop.rty
of the captor may not be retained as well by a prize master alone, as by a considerable crew. Tie object, in
such casss, in putting a prize master on board, is mn.rely to keep possession, and shew that the ves'(,l is not
abandwmed.
6 Rob. 21. The ResoItion. I1 Rob. 31,
.S6. TIhe William and .3lary.
IliNKNEy. on t!e, saie sie.

If the declaration of war is to be considered as confinin- captures to property belon.i v; to British subjects,
mnunicipally speaking, there is an end of the belligerent
rights or the 'United States upon the ocean. But it is
not so to be considered; it is to be construed by the law
of nations.

The Claimants seemingly deny that there was any
capture in this case; but they in fact contend, not for
non-capture, but abandonment. Wecontend that there
was a capture, and that it has not been abandoned. It

FEBRUARY TER

8.

177

was unnecessary to put a prize crew on board to navigate the vessel to the United States, fqr she was already
bund thither. If it was the intention of the ciiptor
to abandon her, why put any person on hoard? The
very circumstance of putting a prize master on board,
clearly evidences an intention not to abandon.
It is perfectly immaterial whether the capture was
absolute or conditional only, to secure the British property found on board: To 9ecure that, it was necessary
to capture the whole: The capture cannot be considered as partial.
It is said, on the part of the Claimants, that there is
no general rule of the law of nations that every trading
with the enemy iNunlawful. We are of a different o'pinion. Bynkershoek lays'dowAm the rule. Bynk. q. J. P.
book I, c. S. 'Vattel gives it by implication. He says
that, in time of war, not only the two belligerent nations,
in their politic capacity, are enemies, but that all the
subjects of the one are enemies to all the subje-cts of the
other inclusively. Vattel, lib. 3 e. 5, §70. Sir William
Scott, in the case of the Hoop, I Rob. 167, has laid down
the rule-the universal rule. The exception which he
allows to this'igeneral principle is, that, under certain
circumstances, funds may be withdrawni with license
from the war-making power. So in the United States
licenses for the same purpose may be granted by the
same power. But this, as has been already observed,
is ndt a case of withdrawing funds ; the funds entitled
to the benefit of the exception are such only as were in
the country before the war.
It is said by the counsel for the Claimints, that the
intention to sail to England was not carried into effect,
and therefore no illegal act was committed, rven supposing that the act, if committed, would have been illegal.
But we contend that the offence was consummated by
the overt-act of sailing for the enemy's country several
days. Such is the law in the case of blockade. Such,
also, it is stated to be by sir William Scott, in the case
of a vessel sailing fo a port which was captured, during
the voyage, by the nation to which the vessel belonged.
By all the analogies of law an intention in part executed
completes the offence. I Rob. 132, 156. The Cohntbia.
9q
VOL. VIIY;

TH
ALEXAkxDzE,
PtCKET,
m sTE.74

-----..--M

SUPREME COURT U. S.
But it has been denied that the act, if carried into ex
ecqtion, would have been illegal, in the present case; it
DER, 'has been-urged that the safety of the property required
PICKET, it. But the law of nations does not permit a man to
MASTER. s?cure his property by taking it to the enemy's country.
TrHH

1LELXAN-

The case of Hallet v. Jhnks, was cited as supporting
the claim of the Appellants. But there, compulsion to
sell and to take the produce of the enemy's country in
payment, wa.s part of the case stated. Here, the purchase of a return cargo, was voltztary; which materially alters the ease. Welles ought to have left his funds
in the enemy's country.
As to the additional instructions of the liresident, they
clearly do not embrace this case, either by their letter
or spirit. An expectation had been rai,:ed that, upon
the repeal of the orders in council, our non-intercourse
woAd cease. The instructions were intended to meet
this rae.---o redeem the pledge, and save the national
hitl,. Thse instructions are explained by the act of
congress of January 2, 1813, authorizing the remission
of the forfeitures incurred under the nan-intercourse.
That act directs the secretary of the treaury to remit
the forfeitures "inthe case of such American property
only, as sailed bvefore the 15th September, 1812; a
time by which the merchants in England were presumed
to have been undeceived.
The proviso to the act of 13th July, 181., does not alter the nature of thlb instructions ; it leaves them to be
expounded by the Courts.
DEXTER, in reply.

Thiq is.a more favorable case than if the property
had been in the enemy's country before the war. The
ohject in g.,iug to England, was merely to save the pro1perty from British capture, to which it was exposed. and
for tiNs pnrp'Se to iass thrdugb the enemy's country in
disgiise-conduct perfectly justifiable in a case like this.
As to the capture no evidence has been produced to
prove the-fact. Ifthere Lad. been any agreement that
this should be cosidered as a capture, we will admit

FEBRUARY TERM 1814.
that it would have been one. But no such agreement is
shown-it does not appear that any thing of the kind

was intended.

THE
AIEXAN-

DER,
PICEKT,

But supposing it to have been a, captu' .by agree- -rASTE11.
ment-even then the extent of the capture must be limited by the tqrms of that agreement. 1 Bob. 201, 2 3.
The Jonge Jacobus Bauma.nn.
Tlere is no evidence of Welles being in England
animo manendi.

.3ondazi, Olarch 7th.' Obsent....Tonn, J.,
MARSHALL,

Ch. J. delivered the opinion of the Court

Is fo1lowAs.
The principles settled in the case of the Rapid decides
this cause ,o fir as respects thre character (f the Alexander and her cargo. In open sea, un preswed by any-peculiar danger, with a fi.ll knowledge of the war, shke
changes her course and seeks an enemy's port. If such
an act could be justified, it were vain to prohibit trade
with the enemy. The subsequent traffic in the enemy
country, by which her return cargo was obtained, connects itself with this voluntary sailing for an enemy port;
nor does the circumstance that she was carried by force
into Ireland, when her- actual destination was England.
break the chain. The conduct of the Mexander is much
less to be defended than that of the Rapid.
But it is alleged by the Claimants. that in this case
there was no actual capture. This allegation cannot, in
the opinioti' f the Court, be sustained. That the America took possess;on of the Alexander with the intention
of makin. prize of that part of her cargo'which might be
deemed British, is not 6ontroverted. How was this intention to be executed, how was this part of the cargo to
lie libelled, if it was not captured ? And if such part of
the cargo as might eventually be British, was captured,
and the whole remained together in the vessel, how can
the capture be considered as partial ?
But it has been truly observed, that it is not non-capture, but abandonm'efit. for which the Complainants il
fact contend.

SUPREME COURT. U S.
THE
But while the whkle cargo Iremains together, claimed
Aux AN- by the captor, if it be enemy prop.,rty, how can any
DUn,
part of it be said to be abandoned ? If it was entirely
IICK.T, abandoned, for what purpose was one of the crew of the
MASTER. America put on board the Alexander?

The inability of the prize master to secure the chptured vessel against a rescu', should one be attcuipted, his
inability to being :n the vessel without the aid of the
hands belong rig to ier, is, in reason, no proof of abandonment. If !.z, circumstances of the captured vessel
be such as to do away all apprehension of rescue, and
inipire confidence that the crew Aill bring hor into port,
no reason is perceived why the property of the captor,
may not be retainled as well by a prize master alone, as
by a considerable detachment from his crew. The cases
cited to this point by the counsel for the captors are entirely satisfactory.
With as little reason do the Claimants seek to shelter
themselves under the instructions of the 28th of August,
1812. Those, instructions apply, in exp ess terms, to
such American vess.ls as have sailed from Great Britain for the United State,, "in consequence of the alleged repeal of the British orders :n council." A vessel
which sailed while" those orders were not alleged to be
repealed, cannot bring herself within these instructions.
But it is alleged that these instructions are still issued,
and must mean somnetihiii.
Raffher than ascribe their
continuance to inattention, the cotinsel Pr the Claimants
would give them a construction in direct hostility with
their letter and spirit. Were this reasoning even admitted to be correct, which it is not, it would become
the duty of the Court to be astute in finding some object
to -which they might possibly apply. It is possible though
certainly it is barely possible, that some vessels which
sailed from England while the orders of council were
supposed to be r'pr'aled, may not yet have reached the
United States. It would be more reasonable to reserve
these instructions for such possible case, than to apply
them to cases which can neither be brought within their
words nor their meaning.

The sentence is affirmed -with costs

