FEBRUARY TERM i81*.
PRATT

AND OTHERS V.

CARROLL.

111-.

THIS case appears to be fully stated by the.chief Aftr
jusice in delivering the opinion of the Court.
MARSHALL,

a lapse

ofscvenyears,

the Court will

Ch. . delivered the opinion of the Court refuseaspefi

as follows:

.erformance
of a eontrict
iin the part ex.

This is an appeal from a decree of the Circuit Cotrt eutin of
the
for the district of Columbia, whereby a. bill brought by which
Complainants
the Plaintiffs for the specific performance of g contract, or those under
whom they
was disinissed. The material facts are these:
claim,
have
epended

Daniel Carroll, the Defendant, was, previous to the lare sums or

samney, tile
of thou~gh
establislhmtnt of the city of Washington.
• ' proprietor
.. .
.
a large fract of land, part of which lies within its pre- firt'default
sent limits. This part Wras conveyed to trustees, onewas on the

alpart ofthe&De.,
moiety for the use of the putllic, and the other moiety. fead~t,

for the use of the said Carroll.

thouih it be
probable that
the failurc of

After the place for thp seat of government hid been the Defendant
respect
in
selected, and the boundaries of the city• marked
. • out. the
.
liftsthat
Orevented.
legislature of Maryland authorized the appointment ofthecomptetio
commissioners to superintend the affairs thereof, and

of the exein-

among other powrs a,,thorizi'd them to divide the!lts titton the
in the said city between the public and the original pro- part of the
Complainants;
that such divisions made in . a ch-qnistances
and declared
tors, form
prib
liainlscan.
specified
and certified by • them should re vst In
hat nelebtate whereof .they gd
the original proprietors
' • the legal
"
therparty
were f'rmerlv seized in the lots and squares assigned could paev
to them respectively. The Commisni'mvrs were' alss from tile ex.
authorized to sell the lots retained for the public use, eotito fite
and on receiving the purchase money. to convey to the the benefits
purchasers. On the 23d of September, 1793, James which were at
Oreenleaf purchased from the commissioners three first expected.
thousand lots lyivg in that part of the city which had
been conveyed by Carroll ; and on the U-th of Detember, 1793, James Greenleaf and Robert Morris made
from the commissioners aii additional purchase of three
thousand lots. Neither the purchase money being then
paid, nor a division made, tie legal title remained in
the trustees, and was a security for the purchase money.
These contracts, if executed by conveyances. would

'SUPREME COURT U. S
PRATT have vested in Gr~cnleaf and Morris all the public lots
& OTrES whith were int5rmingled with those hereinafter stated
T.
to 'have been purchased by Greenleaf from Carroll.
cARRbLL.
On the 26th day of September, In the year t793. the
said Daniel Carroll and James Greenleaf eittired into
aeticles, whereby Daniel Carroll covenanted in consideration of 5/. and of the covenants thereinaftetr mentioned, to convey to the said Greenleaf twenty lots of
ground in the city of Washington, fronting on South
Capitol street, in all conveiient speed after the lots in
that part of' the said street should be divided between
the said Carroll andthe commissioners of the public buildings. The said eonveyinces to be on condition to be
void in case the said Greenleaf should not, ithin three
years from this date, erect a good brick house on each
lot at least 25 feet front, 40 feet deep and two stories
high. And the said Cirroll further covenanted, that
after the division; to be made of the land lying between
the fork of tlie'canal, between him and the commissioners should be completed, he would sell to the said Greenleaf every other lot belonging, after such division, to
the said:Carroll, for the consideration afteriwads mentioned in the said articles; and would lay out t4e whole
amount of the purchase m ,ney, when received, in building houses as near as well might be to those erected
and erLating by the said Greenleaf; and in case of selling any bf his property, he would cause buildings. to the
amount of the purchitse money, to be erected,thereon.
The said Greenleaf agreed to erect. oni each of'the first
Mentioned twenty lots, one good brick house, at least 25
feet front, W feet deep, and two sriee high,,- within
three years, from the date, and to re-convey any of the
said 20 lots not built upon within the time, and pay
10OL for each of the said lots n6t 'so built" upon; to
pay 301. for each of the- other lots to bp purchased ; to
lay out on the last mentioned lots the sum of s0O00L
within two years, and the further sum of 3,0001. within
four Years; to pay one hilf of the amount of the purchase money with interest within two'years. and the
remainder with interest, within four years. Carroll to
make deeds for the last mentioned lots purchased as themoney should be paid. The parties bind themselves
each to the other in the penar sum of 20,0001.

FEBRUARY TERM i814.
On the 8th June, :1795, it was agreed between the PRATT
same parties to change the contract so far as that the & OTHFRS
said Greenleaf should build twenty brick houses of such
.
description as he should judge proper, provided they cxnRoL.
are two stories high, and cover an equal extent of
ground with the houses before mentioned, and of which
the one moiety or ten houses shall be built on the south
part of square numbered 651, and the residue on the
east side of said square.
In Jiuy, 1791, a partial division was made between
Carroll and Greenleaf, by which the. square No. 651
was allotted to the latter. It was on this square that
the twenty houses mentioned in the contracts bLtween
the parties were intended to be built.
On the 13th of May, 1796, James Greenleaf, in pursuance of articles made July 10th, 1795, assigned his
contract with Carroll to Morris aijd Nicholson, to whom
he also transferred his interest in a large portion of the
lots purchased from the commissioners. In the summer
of 1L796 Morris and Nicholson came to the city of Washington, when a division of the lots was completed,
which was reported to the commissioners on the t1th
of September, by whom it was then ratifi'd. Twenty
brick houses were erected on the square 651, and covered in by the 26th September, 1796, the time specified in the contract. Some of them were completed. In
May, 1797, Daniel Carroll entered into the square 651,
and took possession of the buildings thereon, which he
has held ever since, and has permitted them to be greatly injureC
Morris and Nicholson conveyed their property in the
city, to the Plaintif's, in trust for certain creditors, by
deed bearing date the 26th day of June, 1797, and became bankrupts. This bill was filed in December, 180-10
claiming a specific performance of the whole contract
of September, 1793, or, if the Court should be -)f opinion that the contract ought to be divided, the Plaintifs
pray for a specific perffrmance of that part of It which
respects the tventy lots, on which they say houses have
been erected in conformity with their agreement. They
contend that the non-executioi on their part of so much
of the contract ot September, 1793, as remains to be
VOL. VIII.
60

SUPREME COURT U. S.
performed is not to b- ascribed to any fault of theirs,
PRATT
& OTHERS but to the failure of Carroll to convey the lots lie had
stipulated to convey.
V.
CARROLL.

On the part off the Defendant it is contended that he
could not convey until a division should be made and
sanctioned by the commissioners, and that it was as
much the duty ef Greenleaf as of himself to attend to
the division. That his great motive for entering into
the contract was, by improving that part of the citi in
which his property lay to increase its value and t,. give
the town that direction. That this, from the failure of
the other contracting party to perform his covenants,
has become impossible: that the consideration on vdJ'ch
he was to convey, cannot now be received; and that it
would, therefore, be LniqJitous to compel a convey-

aice.
This Court is clearly of opinion that by the contract
of September, 1793, Daniel Carroll was bound to Convey to Grenleaf the property therein mentiont d without
waiting for the executi.on of the contract on the part of
Greenleaf. Being, so bound, lie ot. ght to have taken
those step- which were within his power, and which
were necessary to be taken in order to enable him to
perform his eug.gements. He ought. therefore. to have
obtained from the commissioners that act' which would
re-vest in himself the property to be conveyed.
It is trnc that Greenleaf. having purchased the public
lots, must have concurred in the diyision, and, had he
declined coming to one, his d4ault would have excusexl
Carroll., But it is not pretended that lie ever declined
a division. It is true that his omitting to press ,ne is
a proof that, for some time.at least, he was not anxious
on the subject; and this diminishes the blame which
might otherwise attach to Carroll for his inattention to
so material a circumstance.
But in Jlly, 1791, a division between Carroll and
Greenleaf of several squarcs was made, and the sqare
on which the twenty houses were to bi ctected was,
aniong others, assigned'to Greenleaf. There ii no exruse for the delay of Carroll in enabling himself to convey the lots assigned to Greenleaf in this division. Uo

FEBRUARY TERI lim.
allegws that, as the calculations of their contents were PRATT
inaccurate, the confirmation of this division by the corn- & OTHERS
missioners was necessarily deferred. uhtil this matter
T.
should be adjusted. But the Court caunot admit tile CARROLL,
sufficiency of this apology. Any inaccuracy in the calculations would be adjusted by allowances in tfh divisions afterwards to be made of tie remaining lots.
It appears that in ]February, 1796, Robert Morris offeted the first payment stipulated in the ,contrac't of
Septembe.,, 1793, with the interest which had accr,, d
thereon, and denanded deedsJbr the t-tenty lots. In this
letter Morris consents that these deeda should be. executed as an csrrow, to be delivered on their fulfilling
that part of the contract by building twenty houses on
the said lots, and proposes that separate deedk shouird
be executed. that so many might be delivered as Morris and Nicholson should entitle themselves to. He also demanded a corveyance of so many lots, as the money offered w6uld pay for, and required that Carroll
shoul perform that part of his contract which required
him to lay outhalf the money received in improving adjacent lots. This is the substance of Morris's letter,
dated 22d February, 1796, directed to Mr. Craneh, the
agent of Morris, whicb appears by Carroll's letter,
Wvritten on the 29th of the same mouth, to have been
laid beforelhim, although Mr. Cranch does not recollect the fact. The conveyances, however, were not
made nor the money paid.
Although the cove.,nt t6 convey is not a condition
precedent on the performance of which tIme covenant to
build depends, yet. both from the words of the contract
and the nature of the transaction, it was apparently thi
expectation of the parties that the conveyance. woula
precede the building. Nor was the conve3 ance an immaterial circumstance. In any state of things it was
an important part of the contract, and in the events
which have actually occurred, it was so important as to
render it probable that the failure of Carroll in thisi respect, has prevented the completion of the iwenty buildings. Under this view of the case, had'the bill demanding a specific performance, been br,,uglt immediately after the entry of Mr. Carroll in May, 1797, the
claim of the Plaintifl would certainly have been enti-

SUPREME COURT U. S.
tied to serious attention, and might perhaps have prePRATT
& OTHERS vailed. It was not then too late, by executing the conV.
tract, to have effected its great object. But the state of
CAXROLL.

things is now, entirely altered.

The effort to give the

city that direction would now, according to every reasonable calculation, be unavailing. Time, therefore, in
this contract was essential ; and although, in consequence of the failure of Carroll to convey, the Court
might have relieved against a forfeiture so long as an
execution of the contract could place the parties essentially in the situation in which they would have stood
had exact punctuality been observed; yet equity cannot relieve where it is impossible to place the parties in
the same situation, and when roal fault is imputable to
the person praying the aid of the Court. So far then
as Morris and Nicholson have failed to execute the contract of September, 1793, the Plaintiffs are too late to
be entitled to the aid of this Court.
But it is contended that Morris and Nicholson have
fully complii'd with that part of the contract which respected building twenly honses, and are therefore entitled to a conveyance of the twenty lots. Tie description of the housts'to be built is so indefinite as to be satisfied; it is said, by running up the brick walls, and
putting on the roofs.
The Court is not of that opinion. On fair construction the contract requires that the houses should be fit
for the habitation of families. No particular degree or
kind of, finishing .is prescribed ; but a building cannot
be fairly, denominated " a good brick house" until it be
rendered a comfortable dwelling, fit for the reception of
a tenant. This was certainly contemplated by the parties, qnd a different construction would tolerate an utIfair and fraudulent execution of the agreement.
But, although the twenty houses were not all coinpleted, some of them were, and on examining the contract it appears that Greenleaf and his assigns were entitled to a lot for each house they should build. The
coitract, with respect to the twenty lots, was not entire;
It was not necessary to perform the whole contract, or
to forfeit the whole property-that which was, as well
as that which was not improved. This will be clearly
perceived on a reference to the contract itself.

FE1BRUARY TERM 1814.
Carroll covenants to convey twenty lots with condi- PRATr
tion to be void, if Greenleaf shall not within three yedrs & OTRMm
erect a good brick house of stipulated dimensions on
V.
each lQt. Greenleaf agrees to erect the houses, and cARmoIx
covenants to re-convey any lot not built upon. within the
time, and to pay t001. for each lot not so built upon.
This stipulation obviously severs the contract with respect to each 14t. Only those not built upon were to be
re-conveyed, and for each lot re-conveyed there was a
forfeiture of 1001.
So far as the contract has been executed by Greenleaf or his assigns, le and they ought to he placed in
the same situation as if it had been executed-by Carroll
also. Had it been executed by him, the title of Morris
and Nicholson to as many lots as they"had -erected
houses of the description agreed upon, ,vould have been
absolute. It could not have been defeated by their
failure to perform the rcsidue of the contract. CarroU
ought not to enable himself to defeat it by having broken his contract.
The Plaintiffis then ought to have a conveyance of so
many lots as shall be equal to the number of houses
they have completed under the agreement of September,
1793, and as Carroll's entry in May, 1797, was so fftr
tortious he ought to be accountable for the injury sustained by the property, and for rents and profits from
that time. But as the same contract binds -reenleaf
and his assigns to pay
,001.
for each lot itot improved,
and as the Court does not consider this as amere penalty, but as damages assessed by the parties themselves,
the Plaintiff; will not be entitled to a conveyance of thelots which were improved without paying 0OL with interest from the 6th of May, 1797, the time whep the
contract was determined by the entry of Carroll, on
pacit unimproved lot. It is at their election to obtain a
specific performance on these terms, or to abandon their
claim.
It is the opinion of this Court that the decree of the
Circuit Court ought to be reverser ,and annullea, and
the cause remanded with directions to take an account
of tents and profits which have been or might have been
received by the Defendant on the houses which have

SUPREME COURT U. S.
PRATT been completed by Morris and Nicholson on the twenty
& oXnERs lots in the proceedings mentioned; and also to takje an
v.
account of the money with interest thereon, which was
CARROLL. demandable by the Defendant on each unimproved lot;
and that an issue, to be tried either in Alexandria or
Washington, be directed to ascertain what damages have
'been sustained by the houses built by Morris and
Nicholson previous to the 6th of May, t797, whether
finished or ,nfinished, on those lots which shall be decreed to be conveyed to the Plaintiffs, since the
entry then made by the Defendant; and that oii
receiving the balance, .if any, which may remain
due.to the said Carroll after deducting the rents and
profits before mentioned, and the da-iiages aforesaid, he
be directed to convey to the Plaintiffs a number of
standard lots whidh shall be equal to the nunber of
houses completed by the said Morris and Nicholson in
pursuance of the contract of September, 1793 ; the said
lots to be those on which the houses stand, which may
have been completed, and if there be more than one
house standing on the same standard lot, so that it may
be necessary to convey lots not fully improved in order
to make the quantity of grouid equal to the superficial
contents of the standard lots to be conveyed, theti such
standard lots are to be laid off by direction of the Circuit Court, in such manner as may be equitable and
convenient; provided, that the ground iinproved or
built upon by Morris and Nicholson under the said contract, and re-entered upon by the Defendant in May,
1797, be appropriated in the first instance as far as the
same shall suffice or be necessary to make up the quantity of ground to be conveyed to the Plaintiffs, but so ppropriated'thatno lot shall be divided, unless it be necessary to convey part of a lot in order to make up the
full quantity of six standard lots.

END OF VOL. VIII.

