FEBRUARY TERM isi4.
THE FRANCES,

BOYER, MASTER.

(Thompson and 41. Claimants.)

THIS was an appeal from the sentence of the United A natnralizea
who,
States' Circuit Court for tile district of Rhode Island. Fitien,
in titne of
prece, returns

to hlnative

The facts were as follow:

country for
of the'
purpose

War was declared by the United States against trmade, butwith
the intention
Great Britain on the i8th of June, 1812.
of ieturning
gaili to his

counadopted
Collo
The ship Frances, having on board a cargo of goodsS tr'V,

of British manufacture, consigned to various persons in itlng in
the United States, sailed from Greenoch, in Scotland, thie fbmera
on the

0tith of July, in the sane year, for New York. yenarwe oth

On the 28th day of August following, she was captured the existence
warthebe-two
by the Yankee privateer, and carried into the district of
tween
of Rhode Island, where the cargo was libelled as enemy countries, for
purpose of
the
w-indin; tip a

property.

e mplic ated .
Robert and James Thompson and William Steele, buinps,

naturalized citizens of the United States,' chlimed a e oh inieo
considerable part of this cargo as their own property ; cial tnansacand also claimed 130 package,-,

'whate..
another part of the ti(
the eritewith

same cargo, as being owned by them jointly with Bri- n, ,,and atuadopted
to hisreturning
tish subjects, or as having a lien • upon the property" in ally
onntrvin a
conseauence of adlvances made upon the consignnient.
little nre

These goods were all consigned by James Thompson, th: a Iear.
a naturalized citizen of the United Stateq, residing in knows,e (if

Scotland, to William Steele, a citizen of the UsiitCd thewar;imobe
ensqdered as
States, carrying on the business of the concern in New haaied
York.
•

a nIondellI
hii-Riv
nscn. hMR
tqy-and

All the goods claimed, except the 130 packages, were good% capturell, (t"k
liable
t to
incontestibly the property qf- tile Claimants; and, on war,
the trial, restoration of two tirds was decreed to Ro- eonfeinnation.
appearbert Thompson •and" William
Steele, residents I "in" the Goods
ships
n by the
"

United States; in which decree the captors acquiesced.

papers to lie a

The remaining third, which belonged to .fames '1'homp- conignmett

condemned: and fL'oma'ieneneson, who resided in Scotland, was this
ficart
s es metto Amenat
urCourt.
from this sentence he has apliealed to

SUPREME COURT U. S.
The i30 packages were also condemned as endmy
property; and from, this sentence the Claimants l'ave
appealed to this Court; but, having received more fui)I
information than they originally possessed respecting
CLAI- the ownership of these goods, they now abandon their
fNTS,) claim as to this property, except as to 66 boxes, of
BOYER, which they still claim to hold a moiety; the other njioeMASTER. ty being ackn,,wledged to be the property of Messrs.
-Dalgleish and Frame, British subjects.

THE
BRANCEs,
(TIIOM.ISON & AL.

ehants, condemned in toto

as prize, Al-

though.,'terproftwa
offered that
Ate-iea,
merchants

A claim to all the above mentioned goods was also
interposed by the United States, for a violation of-tlie
non-initercourse laws: which claim was rejected in the
Circuit Court,. and an appeal taken to the Supreme
Court.

were jointly

interested, and
that they had
a lien tmon the

James Thompson, as appeared from the evidence,
gooL., in con- was a native of Scotland, and came to the United States
sequenceof d- in the year 1793, where he resided, carrying on trade
banees
made and commerce, till the year 1801: In 1797 he was naby themi.
,
Further proof turalized.
In the year 1801 he went to France, on the
on these points commercial business of his house, and. some. time afterwards, passed over to England, where he was employed in making purchases ror and sh!ipments to his house.
In thW yearP 1803 lie settled in Glasgow, where he continued doing that part of the business of the partnerslip
which was to be transacted in Great Britain, unfil the
declaration of.war. After the kn wledfi- of that event,
he transacted no commercial busiuess whatever, and
was excilsively employed in arranging his affairs in
such manner as wouhl enable hin to return to the
Unitod States. This bein.g accomplished, be, in August,
1813, engag-ed a passage on board the cartel ship the
Robert Burns, about to sail from Liverpool to New
York, but was stopped by the orders of government.
He then passed over to Ireland, and privately embarked
for the United States, w¢here he arrived in November
last. Several affidavits were taken'to show that he always considered the United States as his permanent
place of. residence, and that he uniformly expressed his
determination to return. His letters manifesred the
same intention. It also appeared that his business was
complicated, and required his attention after he ceased
to engage in new adventures; hut it (lid not appear that
he had performed any act which could be considered as

FEBRUARY TERMISiS.
commencing to return, until August Iis, when he engaged a passage on board the Robert Burns.

THE,
FfRAxCES,

(THaOMP-

As to the 66 boxes of merchandize, the moiety of soN& AL.
which was still claimed by Robert and James Thomp- CLAXson and William Steele, they prayed, on bringing tip 3tANTS,)
the cause to this Court, to be allowed to make further BOYER,
proof ofi their property in the said goods; and offered, MASTER.
as further proof, the afhflavit of James Thomlpson that
the were the joitat prop rty of the house of Daigleish
and Frame and of Messrs. Thompsous and Steele, tinder a contract made by two letters which were exhibited, and which he said were original. In additio'i to
this, James Thompson swore that Ee .gave hi bill for
the moiety of these go..ds, which bi!l Ie had paid, and
that lie was prevented from nftiD'ing this contract to
his partnrs in his letter to thvim, by the litrry produced by the shipment. The Claimants ,ffered, also,
the affidavit of William St,.ele, stating that, some time
after the papers of the ship Frances were opened, he
received the invoice and letters annexed to his alfidavit
in an envelope with some other papers. That tho letters
were in the hand-writing of John Frame and James
Thompson. That, before lie received them, he Nias convinced, from the marks, that the goods in the inv.1ice
were,' in some respects, the joint property of hi-; house
and of Dalgloish and Frame; which fact he stated to
the agents of the captors as well as the judge of the
Circuit Court, at the trial in June, 18i3; and that
James thompson Nas in the habit of taking goods on
joint account from houses in Scotland, and sending
them to the house in Ameilca, without specifying whether they were on joint account or on commission.
The letters retirred to, were, one from Dalgleish and
Frame, dated Glasgow, 27th Jine. 4812, and addressed
to Mr. James Thompson, Glasgow, i; which they say
the goods were printed in consequence of his orders;
and express a hope that lie will take die whole coitained in the invoice; or, if not, that lie will allow them to
g, to his house on joint account. The other was a letter addressed to Messrs. Dalgleish and Frame, signed
James Thompson, and dated Glasgow, 1st July, 1812.
in wlich lie acknowledges thoereceipt of their letter of
the 27th of Junep 181 and says, that as there are a
VOL. VII.
43

SUPREME COURT U. S.
THE
great many more goods in the invoice than he had orin Ncns, dered, and as he did not wish to take so large a quanti(TIY;mP- ty, he would send them on joint account.

SON & AL,
CLAI-

M NTS,)

ooyEu,
MASTER.

The invoic,, or rather bill of parcels, is dated Glasof June, 1812, and was headed - Messrs. R.
and J. Thompson and W. Steele bought of Dalgleish
gow, 27th

and Frame."
The affidavit of John Frame, taken in Glasgow. was
also exi ibited, in whic. he swears that the good.9 are
the joint property of Messrs. R. and J. Thompson and
Win. Steele and of Dalgleish and Frame.
Such was the further proof offered.
In the Frances were two letters from James Thompson to Win. Stecle. The first was dated Glasgow, July
13th. 1812 in which he.says 6,I annex a list of goods
covsigri,ed by the Frances. These consignments are the
safilst and s.rest trade for us, and it was from this conviction that I allowed of so many consignments." In
the annexed list of consignments, referred to in the
foregeing lcttr, were the godds shipped by Mesqrs.
Dal-leis, an' Frame. In this letter, he writes on the
business of the hous, speaks of the consignments 'generally, recommends that the goods should be promptly
sol( at the mairket price, and accoun t s of sales reterned: but makes no allusion to any interest in the goods
of DalgeIish and Frame.
IRViN-, .fWr .tpellents, after stating the facts of the
case, and the claim of Robert and James Thompson atd
William Steele, contended,

That lritish propert f shipped on board an American
vessel, before a kuowledge of the war, was not liable to
capture, either uneer the laws of tlhe United States or
flt president's inctructions to the commanders of priv'ateer. That the c(mmissions issued by the president
to the private armed vessels of the United Stat's. only
authoriz,'d them to s iz,', -1st. British v,,s.els and the
property fozind on board: 2d. All propcrty liable to
capturie by the laws of war; and that the property, in
the present case, did not come under either of these de-

FEBRUARY TERM i811.
scriptions. qets of congress of J"une 18th, and-See,
June 26th,
TYM
also, FRANrCEs,
ist1,27,aws U.- S. vol. 11, p. 227 anit 238.
the instructions of the president to the private armed ves- (THOMPSON & AL.
sels of the United States.
CLAI-

Enemies' property in possession of the nation de- MAWNTS,)
daring war, at the time of the declaration, is not liable BOYER,
to seizure as prize of war: it can only be sequestered MASTER
by municipal regulation. The Court having jurisdiction in cases of this kind, sits as a municipal, not as a
prize Court. I Rob. 238, The Rebeckah. 5 Rob. 207,
The Boeders Lust. 2 .1tzuni, 221.
The property, in the present case, is to be considered as committed to the putblic faith The circumstances
under which it was shipped, and afterwards sailed, were
very peculiar. The non-intercourse act and the several
acts supplementary thereto,' the revocation of the
French decrees, the presidlnt's proclamation of 2d November, 1810, the letter of 'the Ame,'ican secretary of
state (Mr. Monroe) to Mr. Foster, the British minister, under date of July 26th, 1811, the revoction of
the British orders in counil, and th- assurances of Mr.
Russel, the American charge d'affiires in Great Britain, presented a stkte of things on which the British
merchants, and the American merchants in Great Britain, confidently relied for the security of their property shipped, under these circumstances, to the United

States.
This doctrine, that the property of an enemy, found
in the country at the bretking out of a war, is under
the safe-guard of the public faith, is a principle of the
common law. In England, property in this situation
would not be condemned. En~my goods which came
down the Baltic, and were landed in England before a
knowledge of the war, have been there held to be safe.
.1fagna charta itself recognizes the principle. By the
rule of reciprocity, therefore, protection ought to le extended by the American government to the property
now in dispute.
It is said that we have not a standing in Court, that
Jamfes Thompson is an-alien enemy, and that an alien
enemy eannot szipport a claim of this kind. But wv

SUPREME COURT. UT S.
TH.
say that, admitting James Thompson to be an alien
ERANCEs, enemy. his agent in this country may have a standing
(ToHOMin Cou't, if the property in question be divested of its
soN & AL. hostile character. which we contend is the case here.
CLAI5 Rob. .Tostra Oladonna delle Gracie. 6 Rob. 1. id. 21,
WlANTS,)
The ,Marianue. 2 Rob. 135, The Facket de Bilboa.
BOE R,

MASTER.

....

But if these goods he hostile property. and the Claimants, on that account, have no right to them, still, we
contend, the captors cannot stjpprt their claim : The
property of the goods. if not in the Claimants, is in the
United States, and liable to seizure under the non-intercourse act of March -1,1809 ; which act is neiiher repealed by nor merged in the act declaring war, nor any other
act. Laws U. S. iol. 9. p. 2143. § 5. § 8, and 18, of the act.
The 3d sect. of the prize act, (Laws U. S. vol. 11, p.
239,) rtquires that all the laws of tle United States, then
in force, be observed by the owners, officers and erews
of privateers. The n.n-intercourse act was one of the
laws of the Unite. States then in force. The second
set of instru:tions to the privateers (if the United Statts,
(issue-d 26th August. 1812,) inlerdicts the capture of
Almeri an vessels having on board British good-:: They
are to be seized by the collectors of the respcc!ive ports.
The United States have always asserted th,-ir prir right
to such properIty. (See the circular letter from the comptroller of tile treasury, of October 16t6, 1812.) They
have chosen to unnicipalize it-to res -rve it to themselves Congress has reiis.ed every attempt to th:e ( peal
then')n-intcrcLmrs.
The act ofJuh 13'ti;.1813,(L,aws
U. S. vol. 1U, p. 11,) shows that thi United ,-tale, have
nt relinquished their claim to proporty siiiiated like that
now in dispute. Their relinquishment only,ges to
such property as should be condemned as prize of war.
As to the first instructions of the president. they only
4uthorize the private armed ves-Is of thle United States
to capt.ire enemy property on board netral or hostile

vess ls, and nt that found on board A;neri,-an vessels returning to the United States, flying before the st",rm of
war, ant seekiiig the protection of their country. See
the circular letter of- Mr. secretary Gallatin, of 26th
August, 1812. The second set of instruction,, befire
referred to, prohibit tfie'capture of American vessels returning to the United States with British property szip-

FEBRUARY TERM 181 .
ppd after the repeal of the orders in coune.0, and before
nV
the declaratimi of war was known in England. These FRANCES,
instructions were operative as soon as issued, aid were (H oMPthe law for all the privateers of the United States. They soN & AL.
made a cessation of hostilities as to the property above
CLAIdescribed; whichi if thereafter captured by a privater, MviTs,)
wouli be restored to the owners. The captors would BOYER,
only be relieved from the payment of damages e.nd MASTER.
costs. 2 ./tuni, 229, 230, 355, 263.-- Dallas, 40. Bainv. Schr. Speedwell.-I Bob. i4.
The Jlentor.
We would now, on behalf of the Claimants, move the
Court to allow us further proof as to the ownership of
the property. We wish to show that the go,,ds are not,
in truth, consigned property, but that one moiety hel rngs
to the Claimants. We wish to explain the papers which
the captoJrs have considered as proving the property in
q~istion to be hostile. That N,, have a right to make
this explanation, we refer the Court to the tollowing cases. 6 Rob. 3.-id. 132, W. aud J. Bells ease.-! Rob.
i61. .1faddonna delle Gracie.-id. -21. The*Josephine.3 Rob 268. The sarah.-That further proof may be
allowed in an appvIlate Court, s.e I Rob. (Amer. Ed.)
p. 7. Sir W Scott and sir J. .Xichol's itatement of the
general principles of proceeding in the admiralty.
DEXTER,

contra,

Said that the motion, on behalf of the Claimants. for
further proof. was ertirely unexpected-that there was
nothing tbr them to found s,ch a prayer upon-that the.
claim to the 130 packages was ambiguous, the ground
upon which it was made being alternative, viz. eithei: that
the goods were shipped on joint account, or that the
Claimants have an equitable lien on them, on account of
advances made on the consignment.
That these 130 packages were wholly British property, is clear from the papers exhibited: they wef'e consigaotd by British merchants to the Claimants, with orders tio selly and remit the proceeds.
Thi decision as to the residue of the property in dispute, viz. thf" thirdclaimed by James "rhompson,depends
upon his national character. That this is hostile is evi-

SUPREME COURT U., S.
dent from the decision in thecaseof the Venus (antep. 253,)
to which decision, and the argument on behl1f of the
(TROMP- captors in that case, we beg leave to refer the Court.

TnE
yFRANCEs,

SON &AL.
CLAIMANTS,)

BOYI.R,
MASTER.

To return, then, to the 130 packages. It being clear
that they were British property, the only question is,
whether such property is liable to condemnation, as prize
of war.
The case, aq stated and argued upon by the captors,
is not justified by the fcts ; the real state of the case is
materially different. The Frances was captured. not
in port, but on the higih seas. She (lid not enter the port
upon the faith of the nation, but was brought in as prize.
The counsel for the Claimants, admitting the goods
now in dispute, to be British property, has said that
American property similarly situated would not be condemned in England ; anti that therefore, by the rule of
reciprocity, protection ought to be extend..d by the American government to these goods. But even the rule of'
reciprocity, if it were one which this Court could enforce, would not avail the Claimants in the present case;
for the British Government do not themselves respect
the rule: They have captured and condemned our vessels sailing towards England, though ignorant of the
war.
The declaration of war is expressed in terms as general as possible. The instructions of the president to the
privateers of the United States give them a general authority to capture all property liable to capture by the
laws of war.
The public faith was nbt pledged so as to protect this
vessel. If it was pledged to repeal the non-intercourse
law, there was no pledge that war should not be declared; and we claim condemnation under the declaration
of war.
As to the presidents instructions of 26th August, it
appears that they were issued only two lays previous to
the capture of the Frances. The captors, consequently,
had no notice of their existence. They sailed with instructions authorizing this capture: and we contend

FEBRUARY TERM MI84.
that the new instructions were no instructions to these
THE
captors, until they had received notice of their being in ThARNcEs,
force.
(TAOMlSON &AL.

It has been said, on the part of the Appellants, that if CLAItheir claim is rejected, the United States, and not the MAINTS.)
captors, will be entitled to the property. We reply that lov-.,
the United States have now abandoned their claim ; so MASTER.
that the property, if condemned, must be condemned to
the captors.
HARPEfor .tppellants.
The reasons on which we ground our prayer for further proof, are the following.
Ist. Certain bales of carpeting appear, by the invoice
and bill of lading, to be the property of Steele. In the
letter of 13th July, 1812, fron James Thompson to
Steele, they are stated to be a consignnjent. The further
proof which we would offer, in regatd to this apparent
inconsistency, goes to show that upon these goods, although stated to be consigned to Steele, James Thompson & Co. had made advances to the owners, to the
amount of 10001. sterling, which created a lien upon the
goodis. This lien, we contend, was the property of James
Thompson & Co. Again, certain other goods appear,
in like manner, by the bill or lading and invoice, to be
the property of Steele ; but, by the letter, to be the pro-,
perty of Dalgleish and Frame and James Thompson.
The further proof we offer here, is, that we were joint
owners with Dalgleish and Frame.
It is a general rule of prize law, that further proof
shall be allowed on an appeal, where the preparatory
eidence was doubtful or ambiguous. The present cas,.
we conceive, comes within this rule.
DEXTER,

contra.

On this point of further proof, cited the two followitig
cases. 6 Rob. 24, (Amer. Ed.) The .arianna-to show
that an equitable lien is no ground of restitution in.
prize
causes-and 5 Rob. 196. The Toago, where itis decided that a bottomry bond given in time of peace, gives

SUPREME COURT U. S.
no such title to the obligee as will enable him to support a claim for ristitution after a declaration of war.
He contended that a captor takes cum omere, only when
SON & AL. the ons is vijivic and direct.
THE

FUANCES,
(THOMPIpCLAI-

MAINTS,)

PiNKNBY, same side.

BOYER,

MASTER.

....

Further proof, under the circumstances of this case,
The gods wer" shipp d when
war was expected. The intention of the s'il.per "%as to
give a n,,utral character to the property. Jam s Thouip.
son knew the facts relative, to the transartion as well
when he made the shipment, as now. He had reason to

ought not to be allowed.

expect and did expect war: H.nce .he color given to
the transaction. If the Court allows further proof in a
case like this, they will hereafter be inundated with f,'aud
and pejury. It is a general rul of the prize Courts,
that furtber proof whic goes to contradict the ship's
papers, shall not be admitted. If there had btcn rually
an American interest in this case, it was James Thompson's duty as wull as int..rest to let it appear upon the
ship's papers. The original claim, of the Appellants
was stated in the alternative-either they had a lien on
the goods for money advanced by them through James
Thompson, or the goods were consigned to them on joint
account.
The heading of' the invoices was false, by their own
admission. A letter appears among the papers in this
cause, from Robert Sterling, jjinr. who had property on
board, shipped in the name of Wn. Steele: this letter
was evidently written in contemplation of war. James
Thompson's letter of 13th July, contains a list of goods
ensigned, in contradistinction to the piods belonging to
the firm. The goods in question are among the consign,ments. By James Thompson's letter of 14th July, it appears that lie knew of the war. From a second letter of
Robert Sterling"jnir. dated 15th July, it is evident that
lie als'o knew of the war. In contradiction to such doeuments, further proof ought not to be admitted.
-HARPER, in reply.
In the caseF of the bottomry bond and the lien, cited
by the counsel on the opposite side, the possession of the

FEBRUARY TERM 18i4.
property was in the captors. The lien was a lien withTHE
out possession, it was only an incumlbrance, But here, FRANCES,
the thing was in p-ssession of him who had the lien: (TILOMPThe property was vested, so far as th6 lien extended for sOx & AL.
the advances. Steele was Thompson's agent, and might C.AIhave retained the goods until the advances were repaid. MANTS.)
BOYERS,

Although war was feared, peace was confidently expected. There was no motive fur givinig a neutral character to the property. No fraud was intended. There
was no intention to defeat the non-intercourse lay. Besides, an intent, even if it existed, to defeat a municipal
law, is no ground for refusing further p'i.of.

MASTER.

The letters referred to.by the counsel for the captors,
went with the invoices ; and the accidental ambiguity
which seems to exist in the papers %{asowing to the hurry occasioned by the endeavor to get the goods first to
rwirket, and to obtain the bounty on exportation.
DEx'TR. In the cases cited, the property was not
more in the belligerent captor, than it was in the present
case :--rhese goods never were in possession of-the consignee ;-They were captured in the hands of the shipper :-They were not shipped as the property of James
Thompson & Co. but a the property of the Scotch
merchants.
IRVING, cited I Rob. 86. Te Bernon, on the point

of further proof.
.1londay, .3larch 7th.
niames
IRVING. As to the national character of
Thompson. It appears, from the testimony in this case,
that James Thompso, is a native of Scotland, that he
came to the United States in 1793, was naturalized in
"1797, and, in 1801, returned to Scotland where he continued to reside as a merchant, till some time subsequent to the declaration of war.
Naturalization, under the laws of the United States,
confers upoqIn the subject of it all the rights and privileges of a native citizen, excepting that of becoming
president of the United States. He has, therefore, the
4
VOL. VIII.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
same right to leave this country and go abroad which a
native citizen posesses. The law of England is the
same in this respect. When is the hostile character to
Not until a war breaks out beSoN & Al. lie fixed ip ii him
tw-cti the two countries, and lie continues. notwithCLA iMANTS,) standing, to reside and carry on a hostile trade with
BOYER, the enemy country. 2 Cranch, 120, Murray v. The
Ti

?RANCES,
(THOMP

MASTER.

CharningBetsy. A citizn, whthwr native or natural-

IzVd, surprised in a foreign country by a war, has a
right to a reas-mable time to withdraw his effe'ts. 4,Rob.
161, 195. Xadonna delle Gracie. In Mr. Johnson's case
(I Rob. 17, 12, The IndianlChitf) his engagements to
his creditors were considered bv the. Court as a suficient justification of his residence in Great Britain, and
his property was restored. On the point of reasonable
time to withdraw, see 5 Rob. 90, The Ocean., I Rob.
165, 196, The Hoop. - Rob. 19., 232, The Dree Gebroeders. Vattel, B. 3, ch. 4, 63.,
Expectation of peace jutstifies delay in an enemy
country, or explains the quo animo of 'the resident. 5
Bob. 60, The Diana.
In Bcliv. Gilson, I Bos. and Pul. 355, it is decided hat
the goods of a British subject purchased in an enemy's
country after the commencement of hostilitie,, may,
under certain circumstances, be sent to England. This
decision, though now over-ruled in that country, in the
case of Potts v. Bell, 8 T. R. 548, has not been overruled here.
The liberty to withdraw property in case of war, is
expressly recognized by. various treaties, which flx the
time for withdrawing., See, among others, the treaty
of 1791, between his Britannic najesty. and the UMted
Statts, art. 26. But these treaties do not create the
p rinciple.
If, then, we allow time to an enemy to witrdraw
his efrects, shall we not allow at least the same indulgenee to our own citizens?
A cruizer cannot capture for violaion of a municipal
law. The seizure for a violatim of the non-intercourse

FEBRUARY TERM 1s1.
act is directed to be by the collectors; the action for THE
the recovery of the penalties and forfeitures arising FRANCES,
under the act is to he debt, and the proceedings gene- (THOMPrally are to be in conformity mith the act of 2d March, SON & AL.
1799, to regulate the collection of duties o:1 imports a,*d
CLiTtonnage. But where a statute gives a particular f,,rm MAT
x
,)
of actim, tlhat firit reust be putrsue(. Jet of congress Boim,
f JIarch 1st, 1809, § 8, a ud t8. (Lars U. . ol. 9. p. MAS'I ER.
248. 25".)
Jet of Jlarch 2d, 1799, § 67. 68, 69, 88,
91. (Larws U. S. -val. 4,. p. 389, 390, kUZ7, 431. Bac.

Abr. vot. 4, p. 6H, tit. Statute, .
Saturday, fareh 12th.

Absenl....L YvIxNSTON, J.

MIARSHALL, Ch. .. after stating the facts of the casq,
delivered the opinion of the Cuurt as follows :

The rights of James Tlmpson depend entirely on
his national commircal character; which is decided by
the opinion given in the case of the Venus, (aute p. 253.)
The swntence of condeinnation pronounced in the

Circuit Court, as to James Thompson's claim, is affirmled."
The ori.ginal evidence is %ery strwui. to prove that
the shipment made by Dalgleish and Frame was entirely a consignment. The wiholt letter of the 13th of
July confirms this idea. It is scarcely crmdihle that the
property oif Didgleish and Fraife would hate been
placed on the list of consignments %.1thoul a note upon
it, had It be,-n shipped on joi account. The hurry of
business will iiot excuse or accomit for this onoissi.-n.
The prop 'siti') of l)algleish and Frame. is stated to

have been made on the 2th ot' Julie, and to have been
accepted on the'lst of July. The letters of Tlhompson
to Steele arc writtn on the 1:3th and 17th of July, when
this nilpment if; treated a' being altog.ther a consignment. 'he hurt-y could not ha. Le in such as to account for a mis-statememt of the fact. There is, too,
something mysterious in the manner in which the papi-rs, offered as additional proof, reached Mr. Steele.
That they, should n. t haxe been accomppnied by a lotter, nor bear any marks of coming from abroad, is singular

SUPREME COURT U. S.
THE
Further proof is not admitted, and the sentence is afFRANCES, firmed.
(THOMP-

Wedestay, J.arch 16th.

soN & AL.

Absent....MAILSKALL,

Oh. J.

CLAI-

WASHINGTON, J. as to the opin;on of the Court on
the quiestion of lien, referred to the opini6n delivered in
MASTER. the case of the Frances, ( Irvin s claim, post. p.
)
which he said was precisely within the principle of tite
umrsent case.

MANTS,)

BOYER,

THE FRANCES, BoYE,

MASTER.

(Graham's claim.)

Where the
THIS case like the preceding, was an appeal from
afliditns P the dis:riot Court of Rhode Island: and the claim of
orler tuhf.r- ohn Graham, the Appellant, was to certain other goods
thor prnol arICy the satme sll-p. the Frances, captured and carried
'ostiv-but .
.
..Mher
iiii. into Rhode Island, as stated in tile case referred to,
gimllair,l
by the Yankee privateer.
e "Ofl-roduetiftn.,of let-

ters fentioncd
in _the atidaVit s, Oas cont

order O,

r-

titer prx)rf
will

•

T-TaRPEIt, for Clahian'.
L

PLNiNEY and DEXTER, for the Captors.

be allowed i
The material factthe .appellate
Court.
the argument on both

of the case, and the substance of
sides, are stated in the following
opinion of the Court,* delivered .March 12th, by
-ARSHALL,

Ch. ,.

John Graham, a merchant of New York, claimed
sundry parcels of goods shipped on board the Frances,
as his sole property.
The goods were shipped by William Graham and
brothers, merchants of .las~ow, on account anU risk
ef John Graham, merchant, of New York. There are
"L1VINGSTOXr,

. was absent when this opinion was delivered

