SUPREME COURT U. S.
PRINCE

V.

are both adopted and appear to be used as synonymous
terms.

EART-

LETr.

----

It is admitted that the property seized by the attachments and executions before stated was insufficient to
satisfy the several claims exhibited, and that Wellman
and Ropes were unable to pay their dbts, but it does
not appear that their propprty was attached as the effects of abconding. concealed or absent debtors ; nor
does it appear, or is it even alleged that they or either
of them have made a voluntary assignment of their property for the benefit of their credi'ors ; nor is it alleged
that eifhei' of them ihas committed an act of legal bankruptcy. It appears to be the true construction of the
act to confine it to the cass of insolvency specified by the
legislature. Insolvency must be understood to mean
a legal anti known insolven -y manifested by some notorious act of the debtor pursuant to law: not a vague
allegation, which, in adin-fing conflicting claims of the
United States and individuals, against debtors it would
be difficult to ascertain.
The property in question being in the possession of
the sheriff by virtue of legal process, before the issuing
the wiit on behalf of the United States, was bound to
satisF: the deht- for which it was taken ; and the rights
of tle individual creditors thus acquired could not be
defeated by tile process on the part of the United States
subsequently issued.
The Court is of opinion that priority does not atfacha
in this case, and that there is no error in the judgment
of the Supreme Judicial Court of the commonwealth of
Massachusetts.
Judgment affirmed.

THE ST. LAWRENCE, Wn,

MASTER.

THIS was an appeal from the sentence of the United
,0,ou"States Circuit Court for the district of New Hampshire

X vessel sail-

sng to an ene.

FEBIWARY TERM 1814.
The material facts of the case were as follow:

THE
ST. LAW-

The ship St. Lawrence, Silas Webb magter, was cap- RENcE
tured, on the 20th of June 1813, by the private arnied WE]B3,
vessel .America, and, with her cargo, libelled as prize, int MASTER.
the District Court of New Hampshire. On the proceedings which were had there, it appeared that the St. Lawf " after
ledge knowof the
rence, owned by Robert Dickey of New York, and Hugh war and taken
Thompson of Baltimore, arrived at Liverpool from Swe- binging from
den in April 18i3, 'with a cargo o[ iron nd deals.' In that cputry
the mnoth of May 1313, the agent of Dickey and Thom. ing cefy of
goods
son entered into a contract for the sale of the St. Law- enemy
is lable to con.
rence, with the house of Ogden, Richards and Selden oftiscation as
prie of um of
Liverpool, the •contract to be ratified
•Suppression
" t or disaffirmed by
Dickey ari Thompson, and the bill of sale to be execti- p.pr..he o
ted by them, in caseof ailirmance, to Andrew Ogden and itappears to
have been inJames Heard of New York, or either of them On the
.
tentional
bth of May 1813, a license was granted by tile privy and fraudaand atcouncil of Great Britain to Thomas White,of Londn, lent,
tended with
and others, permitting them to'export, direct to theother sspi.
dreumUnited States, an enumerated cargo in the St. Lawrence, cious
stances,
is goo
provided she cleared out before thel astday of that month. causes srreOn the 30th of May 1813, she sailed from Liverpool for fusing turther
proof.
the United States, with the cargo specified in the license. But
where the
Mr. Alexander M'Gregor and his family were passen- suppresainap-

gers on board.

pears to be

owing to acedent or mis-

Upon the return of the monition in the District Court, take and no
thercircumAndrew Ogden interpoged a claim, in behalf of himself ous

-

and M'Gregor, to. the ship and part of the cargo. He stances appear
in the case also claimed another part of the cargo as his sole proper"
, further loroof
of
Selah
n ay r all-ow
ty. He likewise interposed a claim in favor
Strong and Son-of John Wlitten-.of the firm of How- ed.
ard. Phelps & Co.-if Abraham and George Smedesof Peter and Ebenezer Irving & Co._of Henry Van
Wart-of Irving and Smith-of Jahez Hat'rison-of
Hugh R. Toler-and of Thomas C. Butler. This claim
was an affilavit of Mr. Ogden, in which he swore that lie
had not a full knowledge of the. concern3 of l the lrsons for whom he claimed, but verily and fully believed
that many of the said goods on board the St. Lawrence
were sent in payment of debts dme, previous to the war,
to several of tile persons for whom he claimed. This
claim was filed (in the 17th of August, 1813.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
William Penniman of Baltimore, also interposed a
claim for five chests of merchandize, which hc swore
were purchased for him by John Barnet of London, prior
A
FsCn,
WJzBB, to the war, with fun s which he had in England eighteen
ASTER. months before the declaration of war, and in pursuance
of orders given by him nine months previous to that
event. He also swore that he had at Baltimore, the
original invoice of the purchase of said goods, and other
documentary evidence to prove the aforesaid fact.
THE

sT. i.Lw-

There was also a claim of the master for two cases
and five trusses of merchandize, and six bolts of russia
duck.
In none of the~e claims was there a designation of the
marks or numbers of the casks, bales, or cases which
belonged to the different parties for whom the property
was claimed.
The master, in answer to the 12th standing, interrogatory, said, that for the names of the respective laders,
lie referred to the bills of lading. That the goods were
mostly, if not all, consigned "6to order." That the goods
were to be delivered to order, at such place as the own,
ers or consignees should appoint ; but that he did not
know what interest any of the consignees or the shipper
might have in the goods.
In answer to the 16th interrogatory, the captain stated that his letter bags, two in number, had been taken
possession of, and sent td the custom house: and that, as
to any letter he had, directed to the consignees or owners, he had done what he had a right to do; and that all
his other papers had been forcibly taken away.
By Mr. M'Gregor's answer to the 9th interrogatory,
itappeared that he was interested one half part in the
ship;- that his sole object in becoming interested in the
ohip was that of returning to the United States ; that he
also owned one halt of the copperas and of the earthen
ware on board, shipped by Ogden, Richafds and Selden,
and. os he beheved, one half of the coal, but that, as to
the last article, he was not positive, no invoices of said
go61s having been delivered to the deponent.

FEBRUARY TERM i8I.
In relatlon to the vessel, Mr. M'Gregor deposed, that
the only document relative to the sale of the ship. he believed to be a letter to the former owners from their
agent, requesting them to make a bill of sale transferring said ship to Andrew Ogden and James Heard, or
either of them, which he gave to Andrew Ogden.
It appeared further, from the examination of Mr.
M'Gregor, thai, he was born in Scotland, was naturalized in the United States in 1795, had lived, the last
seven years, in Liverpool, and wa returning in the St.
Lawrence, with his family, to the United States.
The. goods claimed by Ogden as .his sole property
were shipped by the house of Ogden, Richards and Selden. The two gentlemen last named resided at Liverpool.
The District Court condemned the St. Lawrence and
all the ,argo, except the parts claimed by M'Gregor and
the master. Both parties appealed from this decree to
the Circuit Court, where the ship and whole cargo were
condemned. From this decree the Claimants appealed
to the Supreme Court, where the cause was argued by
JRVING and WzBSTER for the Claimants, and PITMAN
for the captors.
IRVING, for all the Claimants except .I'Gregor and
Penniman.

It is contended, on the part of the Claimants generally,
1. That the ship St. Lawrence, being an American
vessel, owned and navigated wholly by citizens of the
United States, and being on her return to the United
States, with a cargo owned wholly by American citizens,
could not legally be subject to capture by American
cruizers.
2. That the character of an American citizen, whether native or naturalized, is not rendered hostile by his.
residence in a hostile, country, if, within a reasonable
time after the declaration of war, he withdraws with his
funds from the hostile country and returns to his own :
and that he has a right so to withdraw.

THE
ST. LAWRENCE,

WEBR,
MASTXS.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
THE
ST. LAWIZEN.CE,
'WBB,
MASTER.

3. That a citizen of the United states, not resident in
the enemy country, has also a right, after the declaration of war, to withdraw his funds, within a reasonable
time, from that country.
1. That if the Courts below were not satisfied that to
property claimed was, bonafide, property of American
citize!ns. fairlS purchased and shipped, the said Courts
ought to have let the Claimants into further proof fully
to establish that fact; and. as they refused so to do,
that the Claimants are entitled, in this Court, to the
same privilege.
The argument willbe confined to this last point.
It wVill probably be urged, on the part of the captors,
that the secreting of papers by the master is good ground
for refusing us further proof. We contend, that as the
master was only the agent of the Claimants to navigate
the ship, his act is not sufficient to justify the Court in
such refusal. 'On this point the Court is referred to the
following authorities. i fob. 100, 119, The Concordia.i. 109, 129, The Hoop, De Thies, inaster.-id. 86, 102,
The Bernon.-2 Rob. 996, 3621 The Polly.-Chitty's Law
of Aations, .Jpp. 303.-- o Rob. S7, 10-, The Rising Sun.
The last case goes also to show that a claim may be
made by an agent: and that too, without clealy distinguishing the rights of each particular Claimant. See
also, Doug. 61-1, Le Caux v. Eden.
WEBSTER,

for .1IGregor and Penniman-several

Claimants.
1. MGregor claims half the ship and part of the
cargo.
We contend that a distinction is to be taken between
an American citizel, domiciled tn England at the breaking out of the war, withdrawing his funds, and an American citizen who goes to England after the declaration
of war, for the same ptrpose. That the former, whether a native or naturalized citizen, has a right (and
perhaps it is his. duty) to return to the United States
with his effects. If he has no such right, why should
the law of nations have provided a reasonable time for
removing in case of war? This rule of the law of na-

FEBRUARY TERM 1814.
TE.
tions has been founded upon the necessity- of the case,
and upon the hardship which would attend the want of ST. LAW
such a rule. A citizen of one country may lawfull± go RMNCE,
to any other country, in time of peace, and take up his WEBB,
residence there; and it would be very hard if he must MASTERl.
suffer by the sudden and unexpected breaking out of a
war-an event over which lie had no control. A neutral would be permitted to withdraw his funds in such
a case; and if we should allow the-privilege to neutrals,
why should we deny it to our own citizens? i Rob. 1,
T/e Vi&lantia. I Bos. and IId. 355, Bell v. Gilson.

The case of Escott, cited in the Hoop, I Rob. 165, 196,
may perhaps be thought to make against our claim.
But the cases are not alike. In that case, Escott sent
for his property: here, MGregor came with his.
A character gained by residence, is lost by non-residence. When MGregor ceased to reside in England,
his character. if hostile before, no longer continued hostile. That it was not his intention to cotitinue his residence in England, is clearly evidenced by his actual return to the United States with his family.
With regard to his half of the ship, we contend that
if he had a right to return, he had a right to use the
means necessary for that purpose-he had'a right to
purchase a slfip for the conveyance of himself and his
family. So if it was lawful for him to withdraw his
funds, he might lawfully invest thos,- funds in merchandize, if he could not otherwise withdraw them. 4 Rob.
161, 195, The .MA4onna delle Gracie. 3 Rob. 17', 12, The
Indian Chief. 5 1b. '248, The President. 5 Rob. 81, 90,
'The Ocean. 5 Rob. 60, The Diana.
2. As to Penniman's claim, we shall, at present,
merely ask the Court to allow us further proof.
PITmA s,

contra, contended,

1. That there was no legal evidence that the cargo
belonged to the Claimants, as claimed.

2. That from the origin and character 6f th- voyage,
and suppression of papers, concealed enemy, interests
were to be presumed ; that, therefore, all right to for.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
THE

ther proof was forfeited, and that condemiiation of thc

WEBB,

3. That the ship, at the time of capture, belonged to
Dickey and Thompson, and was liable to condemnatioit
on the ground of having gene to Lxverpool in April,
1813, with a cargo of iron and deals, as well as from
thecircumstances of the voyage upon which she was
captured.

sT. L-w. whole, as enemy's property, must ensue.

MASTER.

4. That the ship and cargo, whether belonging to
citizens or enemies, being taken in trade with the euemy, were clothed with a hostile character, and therefore liable to condemnation.
Some other points were also touched upon in tLe
course of the argument, viz.
The whnt of proper Claimants, of definite claims,
and the requisite affidavits to support them.
The connexion of Ogden 3vith a house
of trade in the
enemy country: the presumption that the partnership
was, in fact, interested in what he claimed as his s,,lo
property ; and that he must he considered as a British
merchant, in regard to those transactions originating
with his house in Liverpool.,
The national character of MGregor, which presents
itself in the case of the Venus.
The presumption that Van Wart resides in England,
the claim being ]by Ogden for IrVing and Smith, of New
York, his consigzees; and
The effect of the license,
Tuesday, Mtarchi 15th.
The case was submitted without further argumert:
and on
rednesday, .Mareh 16th. .tbsent....MAnsiaAL, Ch.

J.

LxvixGSTOx, Zt after stating the f'1cts of the case.
delivered the opinion of the Court as follows :

FEBRUARY TERM i814.
TRHE
From the manner in which the Appellants have arguerd tbis cause, it does not appear that they are very ST. LAWsanguine in their expectations of our, reversing the de- RLWCE.9
cree of the Circuit Ceurt, on the evidence on which that WVI.BB,
Court and the District Court proceeded; but that their M STER.
chief hope is derived from the further proof which they
have, it in their power to produce, provided an opportuiity be afforded them fir that p~irpise. Except as to
the property claimed by Mr. Pennman and Mr. M'Gregor, this Court does not perceive how the Circuit Court,
could have done otherwise, upon the proof before it,'
than confiscate the eat-go of the St. Lawrence,.as prize
at war. Without meaning to decide, at piesent, on the
right of an American citizen having funds in, England,
to Withdraw them after a declaration of war, or of the
latitnde which he may be allowed in the exercise of
such a right, if it exists, we think-the. evidence would
have justified the Court in considering this iroperty as,
belonging to enemies of the United States.

The St. Lawrence had tone to England after the
war wai known, and had sailed from a British port,
nearly one year after war had been declared :'she was
loaded in the country of the enemy, and by persons carrying on trade there: she was furnished with a British
license, which extended both to British annd American
property: and the bills of lading, not being inl a very
common form, were well calculated to excite suspicion.
But these circumstances, strong, as they are, nght, -if
every thing, had been fair, have been so -explained as td
have convinced the Court that the property was. truly
American. Was this done, or even attempted ? If we
look at the conduct of the master and the Claimants i
we find them both acting2 in a way whicA left the Court
no other-safe conclusion but that the cargo of* the St.
Lawrence was enemy property. The captain, inead
pf delivering it to the captors, or hringing into Court the
letters to the consignees) which, no doubt, covered invoices and bills of lading, lets us know, in a way not to
he rhistunderstood, that' he had deliverpd or sent them to
the parties to whom. they were addressed. Taking h,
examination with the usual courseof business, which is
to accompany every shipment with i letter, no doubt
can remain that such letters were not -only tin board,
but that they hav& been regularly received by the re.
56
VOL. VIII.

SUPREME COURT U. 9.
spective consignees; for it is not pretended by the master that they were taken from him by the captors.
RENCE, Here, then, is not only a subduction of very important
WEBB,
papers by the master, but an acquiescence in such conMAST im. duct, on the part of the consignees, and a continued
suppression of the same papers, to this day. The only
proif, then, which the Court had of the interest of the
Claimants, except of Mr. Penniman's, the master's, and
Mr. MGre.gr's, is in the claim or Mr. Ogden, who
states that he is n,,t acquainted with their concerns, but
believes they had an interest in the cargo ; without,
however, attempting to designate the packages belonging
to either of them. The Court below, therefore, might
fairly consider the Claimants as having not only failed
in making out a legal title to the property, but as concealing papers which would have shown a title elsewhere.
THE

ST. LAW-

But if there was a defect of proof below, it is thoug rt
the Claimants are entitled to time for further proof;
and that, if this be allowed, they will be abje to show
that the piroperty in question was purchased with American funds which were in England previous to the war,
and that the Claimants were the true and bona fide
owners thereof. It is certainly not a matter of course,
in this Court, to make an order for further proof.
When the parties are folly apprized of the nature of the
proof which their case requires, and have it in their
power to produce it, an appellate Court should not
readily listen to such. an application: but when it appears that the partie who ask this indulgence have
most pertinaciously withheld from the Court letters and
other documentary testimony, which must be supposed,
in this particular case, to have been in their possession,
they come with a very ill grace to ask for any further
time to make (ut their title. But if we examine the
affidavits which .have been made to obtain further time,
we shall find the'ni all silent as to the papers which they
must have received by the St. Lawrence; for in not one
of them is a letter of that kind or an invoice mention.
ekl; nor do they deny that such letters or invoices were
received by them. Under such circumstances, this Court
thinks that it cannot, consistent with the circumspection
'ith which such applications oight always to be received, allow the Appellants time for further proof,
The master's adventure, it is said, has been given up.

FEBRUARY TERM ,i8;
Of Mr. Penniman's claim the Court thinks more faTux
'vorably. In the claim which he filed personally, he not ST. LAW
only s%ears that the property belongs to him, but states LENCZ,
very particularly how and When it was pu~rchased. He vrfB,
stAtes, further, that the Qriginal invoice and other docu- MAbTER.
mentary evidence were at Baltimore; and in the affidavit made by Mr. Campbell, during the present term,
there is such a full tnd distinct history given of this
whole transaction, fpunded upon original letters and
bills of exchange, that it is impossible to liarbor one
moment's doubt that the live chests of merchandize
claimed by Mr. Penniman, did, at the time of shipment,
and long before, belong to him. To this affidavit is
also annexed the original letter and invoice which he
received by the St. Lawrence, which must dissipatp
every doubt on the question, if any had previously eiisted. Where so strong a case is made out, the Court
is willing to impute to accident or mistake the non-production of these papers below. Perhaps Mr. Penniman
thought he did sufficient in stating they were in his possession. Certain it is, he could have no motive for suppressing papers which would have established so conclusively his title to the merchandize which he claimed.
The Court, therefore, allows him until next term, to
make proof, by affidavit and the production of documents, of his right to the property claimed, at the time
of its shipment at Liverpool: and the same indulgence
is allowed to the captors.
lin regard to the claim of McGregor to a part of the
cargo, there is also some difference between his case
and that of many others of the Claimants. He swears
positively to his interest, but that no invoice was delivered to him by the shippers, Ogden, Richards and Seldon. Ogden, also, swears to th6 interest of Mr. MGregor. Perhaps this testimony is sufficient "to satisfy a
Court, as it did satisfy the District Court, that tle property really belonged to Mr. MGregor. But if that be
the case, other questions will arise of too much importance to be decided on the last day of the term, and
when the Court is not full. Whether an American citizen has a right to withdr'aw his funds from the country
of a belligerent, after a war; or if he have, whether he
have a right to charter a vessel for that purpose; and,
if he may go thus far, whether lie may bring Britieb

SUPREME COURT U. S.
ToE
ST. LAW
RE.NcE,

WEBB,
MASTER.

goods, on freight, to this country, without affecting

thereby the safety

f his own goods;' are questions

which the Court does not now decide, and will therefore
suspend, at present, giving any final opinion on the
claim of Mr. M'Gregor to a part of the cargo ; who,
in the mean time, is also at liberty to make further
proof on tile same points with Mr.,Penniman ;-tie captors having the same right.
It may be well doubted whether Mr. Ogden hnd Mr.
M,Gregor have any title to the St. Lawrence: but whether she belong to them or to Messrs. Dickey End
Thoipson, her fate -seems necessarily involved in the
decision of the Rapid, which was made this term. Site
vent to England since the war, and is taken bringing
a cargo'from that country. If the whole of the carlgo
had belonged to Mr. MGregor, or any other American
returning with his property to the United States, the
Court means not to say whether it would or woqld not
have been cause of forf-'iture: but when we find but a
small portion of the cargo in that predicament, there
can be no e.cape for her. The St. Lawrence was certainly guilty of trqding with the enemy; and, being
taken on her way from one of his ports to the United
States, site is liable, on that ground, to be confiscated
as prize of war, to whomever shte might belong at the
time.
Upon the whole, the sentence of the Circuit Court is
.affirmed in all its parts, with costs; 'except so far as it
condemned those por:ions of the cargo which were claimed by Mr. Penniman and Mr. MGregor, respecting
which this Court will advise until the next term.

THE HIRAM,

BALEKF, MASTER.

sailing
on a
THI$ was a case of capture, as prize, by the pri"voLn
tg,inder
th ,i~ceeandvate armed brig Thorn, duly commissioned by the
passport of

president of the United States, and commanded by Ass

protection of Hooper, Esq.

