FEBJRUARY TERM isa.
THE EUPHRATES.

THIS was art appeal from the sentence of the UY,ited
States' Circuit Court for the district of Rhode Island;

Fartherprooci
inconmi-tent
with that already n the
case,
af~sed
eh ep'ttot

The merchandize, in this case, was libelled in the o

District Court df Rhode Island, as belonging to subjects
of Great Britain. The capture was stated in th( libel
to have been made on or about'the 23d day of August,
1812, No libel was filed against the vessel.

In June term, 1s3, a claim was interposed on behalf
of the United States, on the gromnd that th;e goods
were imported in violation of the non-intercourse laws.
In May, 1813, Matthias Bruen interposed a claim to
certain merchandize ofn board of the Enphrates, alleging that he is the sole legal owner there of.
The papers connected with this shipment. were as follow :
1. An invoice, dated Mansfi'ld, 30th, June, 1812.
purporting the goods therein described t he shipped at
Liverpool, under insuratce, consigned to Mr. lleiiry
Watkiison. New York, or. in case of his absenc'e, to
]Ir. John Frtnch Ellis of that place, for sale, "izaccount of the nanifacturers, Siddons and Johnston, who
were British subjects.
!2. A bill of lading by which it appeared that the
goods were shipped tt Liverpool, on the 7th (Of July,
181, on board of the Euphrates. to lbi1elivered to
flenry Watkinson, he paying freight, &c,
3. A letter from Siddons andmolnston, dated Mansfield, 30th June, 181-z, in which they say. , We have,
6this day, consigned to you for sale on our account,
-sixten trunks," &e.(which are the goods claimed.)
16 Weihop we shall shortiv hear of sales being made
;'by you, to advantage: wn hope they will at least net
us what they are invoiced at, covering all expenses."
49
VOL. VIII.

the Clitannt

SUPREME COURT U. S.
THE

EUPHRATES.

"'We shall leave this shipment to your discretion to
,, make the best and' most advantageous returns yoa
"; can."
There being no proof. whatever, on the part of the
Claimant, and he not appearing to have any interest
whatever, by any of the. pipers on board, the goods
were condemued both in the District and Circuit Courts,
and the Claimants adjudged to pay costs to the Libellants,

From this decree there was an appeal, on the part of
Air. Bruen, to this Court.
HARPER,

for the captors,

Stated that this was merely a question of further
proof offered on the part of the Claimants. The captors, lie said, relied upon the documentary evidence
produted in the cause. This evidence he stated to the
Court,, and "ontentled that it was too plain and consistent to justify the Court in allowing the Claimant further proof.
STOCKTON, contra,

Stated that the object of the. finther proof now offeicd. was to show thalt Watkiuson was agent for a manulaurin.g house in England ; that tie. Claimant ordered
certain god through this a.nt; that, on the passage
of the nwn-intercoursc act, he directed the goods not to
be shipped, &e.
1AGGETT,

same side,

Observed that it had been generally supposed that
the rules of the English Courts respecting further proof,
would not apply to the Courts of the United States. but
that parties would have the benefit of new evidence in
this Court, in prize cases as well as in other cases in
admiralty; and that the parties in the present case had
acted on that opinion.

The case was then submitted.

FEBrIUARY TERM 18i
Tuesuay, March I 5h. .Absenf.... MRs )xsiA,
LxvjxGsToN,

C.h.

J.

J. delivered the opinion of the Court.

The Court does not understand the counsel for the
Appellant as contending that there was any error in
the sentence of the Circuit Court, or' that any other
than sentence of condemnation could have been pronounced there. It was, indeed, a very clear case, on
the procecedings before that Court. But it is supposed
that Mr. Bruen is entitled to an order for further proof;
and that the facts which he will be able to make out, if
an opportunity be afforded him, will entitle him to a
restitution of the property.
Without rejecting the application on account of its
being made at so late a period, the Court has looked
into the pi'oof which it -is proposed to bring forward,
and, on comparing it with the proof already in the
cause, we are of opinion that it is totally incompetent
to make out a title in the Appellant. There is not the
least reason to believe that these goods were shipped in
consequence of any previous orders given to Mr. Watkinson by merchants in this country, and transmitted
by him to Messrs. Siddons and Johnston. On the contrary, whatever orders may have, been sent to those
gentlemen by Mr. Watkinson, it is most manifest that
they did not, in this case, act upon them ; for the invoice and letter accompanying the shipment announce,
in terms not to be misunderstood, that these goods were
sent to the Upited States for the exclusi e account and
at the sole risk.of the British manufacturers.
It has not escaped the notice of the Court, that not
one of the gentlemen who are alleged to have given orders for these goods on Messrs. Siddons and Johnston,
through Mie. Watkinson, and who all reside in the
United States, appears as a Claimant for any part of
them. Instead of this. we find them, or several of them,
assigning their interest in this adventure, wbatever it
rfiav be, to the Claimant; but for what value does not
appear; and every instrument takes care to express
that the property is to be recovered at the risk and ex.
pense of Mr. Bruen. Thus is a total stranger to the
shipment,'and a mere volunteer who may not have paid

TEE
r..UPHRATEs.

SUPREME' COURT U. S.
ri,
Mr-

a single cent for his title, made a party Claimant: a
mode of Pro~eeding novel at least, and well cah ulated

PEHIATES.

to awaken suspicions not at all favorable to his preten-

- -----

sions. Whether a title to goods obtained in this way,
wo,.,Id, under any circumstances, be sustained by a
Court of prize, we will not say; but it is, in our opinion; sufficient reason, of itself, to refuse the party any
opportunity to make further proof. Mr. Bruen not
only doesnot pretend that he owned any- part.of these
goods at or previous to the time of capture, but merely
that he was the legal owner at the time of filiug his
claim; and upon the affidavits now laid before the
Court, as the-ground o an order for further proof, it
appears that this legal title was acquired'in the way already mentioned; that is by a number- of persons assigning to him a chose in action, which they must have
considered of no value, or, at any rate, not worth pur'shing." Such conduct can enotitle the party to no favor
or indulgence whatever. Upon the whole, the Court is
as well satisfied with the deciee of the Circuit Court,
as it is with the total insufficiency of the evidence in re.
serve to produce any alteration in, it.,
The application, therefore, tor firther proof is rejected, and the sentence of the Circuit Court affirmed witt
posts.

THE MARY, STAF'ORD, MASTER.

ease of vithdrawing fundsS
A

and further

THIS was an appeal from the sentence (ifthe United

States' Circuit Court for the district of Rhode Island.

prodf.

The following is a statement of the facts connected
with the case.
General Garret Visscher, alias Fisher, a native of the
state of New York, entered into the British army beforb
the revolution, and having obtained the rank of lieutenant general, died in England, rich, intestate, and without issue, leaving a large number of relatives citizens of
the state of New York, residing at or hear Albany. Mr.

