FEBRUARY TERM 18W.
THE JULIA, LucE,

MASTER.

sailing oai
THIS was an appeal frqm the Circuit Court for The
e theieUs
the district of Massachusetts.
and- passport

D. D.tvis, for the Claimants.

protectioi
of
of tho enemy,
in futheranct;

or
his views
coninterests,
The brig Julia and' cargo,,j consisting of about three of
hon
tress,
United
the
by
captured
were
hundred hogsheads of salt,
States' frigate Chesapeake, Samuel Evans, commander, Pxt ofillegality
about the last-of Dec itber, 1812. and libelled and con- as subjtt the
denned in the ditrict Court of Massachusetts. Upon to Cipa catio
as prize of
appeal to the Cir uit Court, the sentence of condemnato 'va.
tion was affirmed, and Ihe Claimants now appeal
this Court.

Thq allegation, in the libel, is, that the property belongs to British subjects.
The facts proved and relied upon by the Claimants,
and which are. fully substantiated by the documents
contained in the record, are as follows : That the Julia
and cargo were owned wholly by the Claimants, who
are native American citizens ; that she was documented
as an American ship, for a voyage from Baltimore to Lisbon, with a cargo of corn, flour, and bread; that she sailed Aith this cargo from Baltimore to Lisbon, where she
as there sold
arived in safety ; that the outward cargo N%
to Portuguese merchants, in that lort, and a returh cargo
of salt purchased with apart of the proceeds of the outward
cargo; and that, as the Julia wa4 returning to Boston, hpr
port of discharge, with her homeward cargo, she was
captured by the Chesapeake ; that all the transactions
of the voyage were really and truly for account of the
Claimants, and that, in point offact, no connexion, intercoui se, trade, supply, or other matter or thin., relative
thereto, was ever had, made. intended, cr contemplated
with the enemy, in the whole course of this voyage.
It is admitted by the Claimants, that copies of thb
following documents signed and granted by admiral
Sawyer and Andrew Allen, late the British consul at
Boston, were filed in the Cdurts below, and, for the

SUPREME COURT U. S.
THE
JULIA,

LUCE,
mASTER.

reasons stated by the learned judges, admitted iii evidence, viz:,
1st. J license from adinird Sawlyer, in the -words
following:

"6By Iferert Sawyer, esq. vice admiral of'
[sAiL.] the blue, and, commander in chief of his majesty's ships and vessels employed and to be
.employed in the river Saint Lawrence, along the coast
of Nova Scotia, the islands of Anticosti,Madelaine and
Saint John, and Cape B'eton and the bay of Fundy,
and at'and about the island of Bermuda, or Someis'
Islands, &c. &c. &c.
I Whereas Mr. Andrew Allen, his majesty'sconsul at
Boston, has r(conjmended to me, Mr. Robert Ewell, a
merchant of that place, and wvell inclined towards theBritish interest, who.is desirous of sending provisions to
Spain and Portugal, for the use of the allied armies in
the Peninsula, and whereas I think it fit and necessary
that encouray-,ment and prqtection should be afforded
him' in so doing.
These are thereflre to require and direct all captains
and commauders of his majesty's ships and vessels of
war mhich may fall in with, any American, or other vessel bearing a netitral flag, laden with flour, bread, corn
or poas. or any other species of dry provisions, bound
from America to Spain or Portugal, and having this
protection on board, to stiffer her to proceed without unnecessary obstruction or detention in her vo age; pro.
vided he slall apppear to be steering a due course for
those countries, and it being understood this is only to
be in force for one voyage and withip six montlis from
the date hereof.
, Given'under my hand and seal, on board his mn-

jesty's ship Centurion, at Halifax, this fourth
lv7 of August,,one thousand eight hundred and
4

SAve.

-cH. SAW'YkP,, Eke diiral."

By'command
of the vice'admlral.
SWIBLLIA'I
AYRE.

FEBRUARY TERM i811.
2d; The following docmnent signed by .Andrew .Allen;

TRZ.
JULIA,

",To the commmiders of his majesty's ships of war Lt.CE,
or of private armed ships belonging to subjects of his MATzi.

majesty.
"c Whereas from the consideration of the -Yat iwp6rfance of continuing a regular supply of flour and otker
dried provisions to the allied armies in Spain and Portugal, it has been deemed expedient by his majesty's
governient that, notwithstanding the hostilities now
existing between Great Britian and the United States,
every degree of encouragement and prttection should
be given to American vessels laden with flour and other
dry prov sions, and bonafite bound t"Spain or Portugal. And whereas, in futherance of these views of his
majesty's government, Herbert Sawyer, esq. vice admiral
and commander in chief on the Halifax station, has ad'dressed to me a letter under the date of the 5th of Aug.
18M2, (a copy whereof is hereunto annexed) wherein.I
atiinstructed to furnish a copy of his letter, certified
under my consular seal, to every American vessel so
laden and bound, destined to serve as, a perfect safeguard and protection of such Vessel in the prosecution
of her voyage. Now, therefore, in obedience to these
instructions, I haveI granted to the American brig Julia,
Tristram Luce, master, of 1t59 tons burthen, now lying
in the harbor of Boston, and bound to Baltimore for
the purpose of taking in ,a cargo. of flour and' corn, and
proceeding thence to a port in Spain, or Potugal, not
under French domination, the annexed locuments, requesting all officers commanding his majesty's ships of
war, or private armed ships belopgln. .to subjects of
his majesty, to give to the said yessel'il due assistance
*and protection in the proecution of her voyage to Spain
or Portugal, amil on her return thcnce to her port or
original departure, laden with salt or with slecie to the
nett amount of her outward cargo, or in ballast only.
"c Given under my hand and seal of
rCONSsM'AR SPAL.]

office at Bostou, this eighteenth
day of September, t82.
"'ANDREW ALLEN, jun.
His mnqiesty's consid.-

184
TF.F
JULIA,

.UcE,

SUPREME COUlYr U. S.

3d. - A copy of adfiiral Sawyer's liters to A. Aqleny
referred to in the preceeding document, and certified
under the consular seal ; as follows:

MASTER.,

" His M3ajesty's ship Centurion,
.St Halifax, the 5th o '.d4ast, 1812.

"SIR,

"I have fflly cdnsidered that part of your letter of the
eighteenth ultinio, which relates to the means of insuring a cqnstant supgIly of flour and other dried provisions, to the allied armies in Spain arid Portugal, and
to the West India islands, " and, being aware of the importance of the subject, concur in the proposition you
have made. I shall therefore ,give directions to thWe
commanders of his majesty's squadron under my comniand, not to molest American vessels unarnd and so
laden, ,"bonafide" bound to British, Portuguese or Spanish ports, whose papers shall be accompanied with a
-ertified copy of this letter under the consular seal.
" I have the honor to be, sir,
"Your most obedient humble servant,
,, H. SAWYER, Vice .diniral.
-To Andrew Allen,

esq.

his majesty's consul, Boston.

,, Office f his Britannic.1Majesty's Consul.

I, Andrew Allen,jun. his Britannic majesty's consul
for the States of Mwssaichusettq, New Hampshire, Rhode
Island and Connecticut. hereby certify that the annexed
paper is a true copy of a letter addressed to me by-Herbert Sawyer, esq. vice admiral and commander on the
Halifax station.
cc Given under my hand and seal of
office, at Boston, in the state of
Massachusetts, this eighteenth day
[CONSUrLAR srni.]
of September, in the year of our
Lord, one thousand eight hundred
and ,twelve.
"ANDREW
,

ALtEN, jun."

FEBRUARY TERM i8is!.
If the opinions of the Courts below, in admitting copies
of these documents t be received as evidence, were correct, then it is also admitted that these licenses and letters
had been obtained for, and were found on board the Julia,
at tile time of her capture.
UpQn this statement, and upon the evidence contained
in the record, the Claimants submit two points to, the
decision of the Court.
1. That the mere acceptance or possession 6f the British license and documents, do not subject the property
to condemnation.
2. That if tthe peculiar terms of the license in this
case creatBa presumption unfavorable to the Claimants,
either of an intention to supply the enemy, or of any
other unlawful intercourse with the enemy, such presumption is intirely destroyed by the evidence in the
case, which shews that no such supply or intercourse
did ever, in fact, take place.
As to*the first point. The nature and effect-of an
enemy's license, so far as respected the acceptance, p6ssession or use of such a document by an American citizen, wei'e so fully aild 4bly pointed out in-the cae of
the .Aurora,that the counsel for the Claimants, is ontent
to rely upon, and to refer the.Coart to the argumnts
and, authorities which were subimitted and quoted in that
case, upon this point.
But as to the seiond point. If the Julia had been captured on her passage to Lisbon, with these Tritisli documents on board, there might have been some ground for
a condemnation :-The suspicious or obnoxious parts of
them, such as those which state that -Elwell is well indlined towards the British interest," and that he contemplates furnishing supplies to the allied armies in the
Peninsula, might have raised a presumption that such
was his intention, and would have cast the onus probandi
upon him, or upon those in whose hands 'lie license
might be found. But it is contended, that if, upon furnishing the proof, it shall appear that no unlawful intercourse with the enemy ever did, in fact, take place, and,
moreover, that no such intercourse was ever even intend21
VOL. VIII.

THZ'
JULIA,

UCE,
MASTER.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
mA
juLLA,

LucKz,

.fAsTzR.

ed to be held with the enemy, the presumption against
the Claimants, arising from the terms of the British
documents, will be entirely destroyed, and the Complainants left in a state wholly free from guilt, both legal
and moral.
That this is a correct position, the Court is referred
to the case of the Alatilda, decided in the North Carolina Circuit, by the chief justice of the United States, 'and
reported in the, .Americanlaw journal, p. 478. In that
case, the license was granted after the war, and for the
express purpose of a trade and supply to the British W.
L islands: But there was no evidence that any act of
trading had been committed. In that case the chiefjuslice is said to have declared, "' that there was no evi"6lence of a criminal intent, except that of 'the license;
that the obtaining, the license was to deceive the ene"my, wdch the Claimants lawfully might do; and that
"the ease was cleared of all doubts by the evidence,
1"which stated the real o."ectof the oyage."
In ,the case of the .1bby, 5 Rob. p. 25,1, it is expressly
stated to be law " that there must be an act of trading to
"the enemy country, as well as the intentiog; that there
must be a legal as well as moral illegality." It is in
the same kase stated, that ,,no case has been produced,
,"in which a, mere intention to trade with the enemy,
,,contridicted by the fact, enures to condemnation."
Upon both points (said sir William Scott,) ,,I am of
-opinion, that the Claimant is entitled to'restitution. On
.i the ist, there was no illegal act on the ?d, there was
" neither intention nor act."
There is no principle better known or established by
the writers both upon law and ethics, than that there
must be both a will and an act to constitute an offence.
The act is necessary fo demonstrate the depravity of
the will: a vicious 'will, without a vicious act is no

oftce.
It is not denied, that the Julia and her outward cargo
-were the property of the Claimantf4 it is not denied;
that the Julia. on her departure from Baltimore,'was
doeumexAted, in evry respect, as required by law, as an
American ship hound from Baltimore to Lisbon, with a
cargo of flour, corn and bread.

FEBRUARY TERM i814.
It is not denied,, that the Julia, with this cargo On
board, was ordered to proceed, and that she did in fact
proceed, to Lisbon ; and that it was the intention of the
owners that the cargo should be there sold, to the best
advantage, to merchants or other subjects of that government ; nor is it denied, that the Julia and cargo did,
infact, proceed to Lisbon for these purposes.
'It is not denied, that this carg6. of corn, four and
bread, was in fact carried to Lisbon, there landed, and
sold to a house of merchantsof that city. It is also a fact,
probably not disputed, that the cargo of sal, with which
the Julia was laden, and with which she was captured
on her homeward voyage, was purchased with the proceeds of the cargo sold at Lisbon. And it is not pretendcad that there was any intercourse with the enemy at Lslbon, or with any of his agents ; or that there was in reality, any sale, contract. or other transactionby th Claimnants, or their agents, that'any part of thecargo, or o the

proceeds of it, should, iin any mannier, serve as a suppl# or
come to the hawds and possession of the enemy. On the
other hand, it does not appear from all the evidence in
the case, that the whole object of the voyage was to export the cargo of the Julia to Lisbon, there to be sold,
and the proceeds to be invested in such funds as are
pointed out in the owners' letter of instructions to the
captain. The intention to trade with, or supply, t06
enemy, is proved only from the prima facie evideice of
the license and other British documents; and this eviilence is fully- explained and counteracted by the whole
mass of evidence in the. case, shewing the Teal object of
the voyage, and that no supply, trading or intercourse
were in faut had with the enemy.

If th, bare possession or acceptance of : license con.
demns the property which it purports to protect, the J3lia
must be condemned ; but if the.iresaniptiveor primafacie evidence resulting from the posqt-ssion of the license.
however obnoxlous may be the termf of it, can be explained and count- racted by evidence of the facts, the Julia
and cargo must be restored. The f1rmer position, it is
conceived, will never be sanctioned by this Court; and
if the latter he not established, the Claimants will bc se'verely punished for an act which they never committcd.
and which they never intended to commit, viz. that of
trgting with, and supplying the enemies of the;r conn-

T E
JULIA,

i.cp,
MASTER.
-

SUPREME COURT U. &,
fHE
T

Jt

IA,

LucI,
MASTFlR.

try. The case of the Julia, therefore, turns upan a qu estio!of faet. Did the Julia pursue a toyage to a neutral
port. and was her cat go disposed of to the subjects of a

neutral courqtry, or did she pursue the voyage and firnish tile 9,ipplies to the enemy, wbt',.a %ppear to have
been the objects.ofth British admiral ? It is repugnant
to law and reason, that a man shall not be pertiitted to
prove his innocence; and, when he has proved it, that
lie should be held gidlty, and punished. If taken with
the mainour, may he not prove that he came honestly by
the goods ?

If a contrary doctrine be established, it will lead to
one inevitable result; viz. a prohibition of all tradefrom
this to a neutral country which happens to be in alliance
with Great Britain: it will he, in fact, declaring that a
cargo of flnir-shal not be exported to Spain or'Portu
gal, because the neutral ,subjects; to whom it may bt
there sold, may sell it again to their Brifish allies.
This case is distinguishable from, and stands upon
much firmer ground than that of the .Aurora. In that
case, the ship was taken on ier outward passage, and
(ai it was alleged) oAit of her course to her ostensible
port. It was tihecfire impossible for the Claimants to
remove the presumption against them, arising from the
possession or the license, by the'subsequent events 5f the
'voyage. Bat in this case, every thing is explained, and
every doubt or suspicion removed by the evidence shew.
ing the bonafide oltjec(s and ultimate termination of the
voyage. The case is thus chansed of every thing that
might be presunwd to be fiul by the unhappy terms 'the
license, or the officiots and unofficial interprsitions of
Mr. Allen.
The case must turn fipon the bona 'fi de
views, and intention or the Claimants, and upon the evidence that, in point of fact, no unlawful intercourse between them and the enmy ever existed, or was ever con4einplatcd. If they have merely accepted a licerise, but
have mad e no unlawful use of it, they cannot be injured byit.
.Rcv'su, Altlorney Geueral, in behalfof the United States.
It is utterly impossible that, if any American property, embat'ked in a trade n111er an enemy license, can
be the subki'ct of prize, this should escape. Trhe transaction is the most obnoxious of its class; and presents the

FEBRUARY TERM iSi.
leading question in its most advantageous forms for the

captors.

THE
JULIA,
LUCLO

The object of the enemy was supply to the. allied armies in Portugal and Spain. The engagement to execute that purpose was the consideration of the protection
granted hy the license. The purpose was executed in
fact, and in strict conformity with tile engagement.
The homeward cargo wa purdIased with the proceeds
of the outward ; and, when captured, was still under the
protection of the license. If the circumstances in this
case do not amount to a trading with'the eneil, there
is no such thing. If this license, (or rather these licenses,) should not be held to give to the property a hostile
character, no license, wliatever may be the facts with
which it is combined, can produce that effect.
There can be no foundation for restitution in thig
case but one. It has beendoubted whether Jamerican
property can, for any cause, become subject to confiscation as prize, wlen captured by a privateer; and it will
be contended (as it is understood) in the case of the
Frances, that it cannot.
The capture on this occasion, howevr; was madc by
a titional 'ssce. in virtue of the declaration of war, 4LII
the public law of the world operating upon it. The at'torney general does.'nt believe that'this difference in
fact creates any difference in the legal conclusion ; because lie supposes -iat privateers have, upon the sound
construction, of the act of congress, the same rights of
capture with national vessels ; but lie contends that, even
if it should be helt that the ri.vits of captur6, vested by
their commissions in private armed vessels, are confined
to prop'erty sri,'t!v (not constructively) British, the rights
of national vessels are not s(; restricted.
The Court is referred to the opinion at large (in the.
transcript,) of the learnvd judge by whom this cause
was decided in the Circuit Court, for-a very able discussiort of the doctrine which it involves.

-Mmnday, Marcht 7th, i8i- . Atbsent ...TODD,
STORY,

lows:

J.

. delivered the opinion of the Court as fol-

MAST'EI

SUPREM1E COURT U. S.
Thd facts of this case, ,and the grounds upont which a
decree of condemnation' was pronounced in theCircuit
Luc1,
Court, fully appear in the opinion of that Court which
MASTER. accompanies this record. That opinion has been subwnitted to my brethren, and a majo'ity of them concur
in the decree of condemnation, upon the reasons and
principles therein stated. It is not thought necessary to
repeat those reasons and principles in a more formal
niznner; it is sufficient to declare as the result of them,
that wel'old, that the sailing on a voyage under the license and passport of protection of the enemy, in furthei-ance of his views or intereste, constitutes such an
a ctof illegality, as subjects the ship and cat-go to confiscation as prize of war ; and that the facts of the present
case afford irrefragable evidence of such act of Illegality.
Tiu

.

3ULT.4f,

The judgment of the Circuit Court is therefore affirmed with costs.
The follmioing is the opinion of the Circuit Court of
Massachusetty referred to, in the foregoing opinion.
"T
Jia and cargo were captured, as prize, by
time United States' frigate Chesapeake, commanded by
captain Evans, on the 31st December, 812.' From the
preparatory evidence and documents it appears-that
she sailed from Baltimore, on or about the 31st Octoher, 18'12, bound 'on a voyage to Lisbon, with, a cargo
oaf cord, bread and flour; and the capture took place
on the return voyage to the United States. The vessel and cargo were documented as American, and as
owned by the Claimants, who are American citizens.
The vessel had on board simdry diocuments of prutection from British agents, which were delivered up to the
captors, and, together with the other ship's papers,
were put on board of the prize, in the custody of the
prize master; and these documents were the unquestionable caitse of the capture. It appears that the
American master and crew were left on board the prize,
and, during the subsequent voyage iothe United States,
these British documents were taken front the custody
.of the prize master surreptitiously and without his
knowledge as to the time or manner: lie alleged expressly that they were stolen, and this allegation seems

FEBRUARY TERM 1814.
admitted by the master, in a supplementary afldavit,
who, however, denies an) knowledge or coincx, m in
the transaction. The prize master took exact copies
of these documents, for the purpose of sending them to
the secretary of the navy; which copies have bevn produced in Court, and verified by his affidavit. All the
other original documnnts have been faithfully produced.
Upon the examination of the master upon the standing
interrogatories, on the 1ith Fcbruary, 1812, althoupeh
thei:e are several interrogatories, and particularly the
16th and 27th, which point directly to the subject matter, lie did not state the existence of any British document, passport, safeguard or protection ; and, Nhat Is
quite as remarkable, be expressly declared that he knew
not upon what pretence nor for what reason the vessel
and cargo were captured. It was not until after the
time assigned for the trial, and on the 8th of Mlarch,
1813, that -the master, by a supplementary affidavit,
(which was admitted through great indilgence, mid contrary to the general practice of prize Courts.) attempted to explain his omission, -Wd to vindicate his ,loisconduct. Tie apdlogy is equally weak and fitile. At
the time whei these examinations were taken, the interrogatories had been draw u up with care and deliberation. The commissioners were present to explain
to the understanding of every man intent on truth, the
meaning of any question which might a.ppear obscure.
The master was a part owner of the vessel and cargo,
and the regurar depository of all the papers connected
with the re3 age. 'It is utterly incredible that lie should
not recollect, on his examination, the existence of tlese
British documents.- They were put on boamd for the
special safeguard and security of the vessel and cargo,
Indeed, independent of them, the risque (if the capture
would have been imminent. A master can never be
admitted to be heard, in a prize Court, to aver his ignorance or forgetfulness of the documents of his ship.
It is his duty to know what they are; and lie cannot
be believed ignorant of their. contents, without overthrowing all the presumptions which govern in prize
proceedings. Looking to the Nhole conduct of the imaster, it seems to be irreconcilable with the rules of m6rality and fair dealing; and I have great difficulty in
exempting him from the imputation of being guilty of a
wilful suppression of the truth.

THk

JULIA,

LUCE,
MASTER.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
At tile hearing, a preliminary objection was takbii
.tothe introduchon of the copies of the British docu,L.CE,. ments, upon the ground that the originals, as the best
.MASTER. evidence, 0ujht to be pr6duced, The rule undoubt, dly
applies when the originals are, in existence, ,tnd in the
possession or control of the party. The extraordinary
disappearance 'of these important papels, under the
circumstances of this case, I can have little doubt was
occasioned by a fraudulent substraction. There is no
reason to impute this stibstractioh to the prize master.
'The documents were to him a very important protection; they constituted the avdwed reason of the cap"ture, as the mate And some of the seamen testify. It
is trub that the master has declared that he knew not
the pretence of-capture; but it. can hardly be believed
that hecould be ignorant of a fact which so materially
afected his interest. I feel myself bound to make very
unfavorable inferences against him ; and if, it odiuln'
spoliatoris, I impute the substraction to some person on
board connectedo-with the Voyage,'onl in thi confidence
of tile master, it is measuring out no injustice to one
who appears to deem mis-statements and concealnents
no violent breach of g9od faith. I shall, therefore, admit.the copies, verified as they are, as good evidence in
these proceedings ; and I will add, that if a single material fact in favor of the Claimants had depended upon
tile supplementary affidavit of the master, I should have
felt myself comipeHed to repudiate it in order to vindicate
the regularity of prize 'proceedings, and suppress the
efforts of fraud to derive benefit from after thoughts
and conttivances, These remarks are not imade withvut regiet; but public duty requir, s that manifest aberrations from moral propriety shouldnot receive shelter
this Court.
ill
TEM

JULIA,

Having disposed of this preliminary objection, I now
proceed to cou3ider the twvo questions which have been
so ably discussed in this case.
ist Whether the use of an -enemy's license or protection, on a voy;age to a neutral country in alliance
wii the enemy, be illegal so as to affect the property
with confiscation.
2d. If not, whether the termsof the present license disinguish this case unfavorably from the general principle.

FEBRUARY TERM 1814.

193

The British documents whih were on board, and
which, for conciseness, I have termed a license, are as
follows:

[.ry It is thought unnecessary to insert these documents
here, as they are to be Jbind at length in tke argument of
the Claimant'scounsel in te former part oJ this report.]
In approaching the more genrral question which has
been raised in this case, I am free to at knowlf dge
that I fell no inconsiderable diflidt lce, both from the
importance of the question, and the different opinions
which eminent jurists have entertained respecting it:
Nor am I insensible, also,.that it has t.ntered somewhat
into political discussions; and awakt-ned the applaose
and zeal of some. and the denunciations of others,. considered merely as a subject of national policy, and not
of legal investigation. It has now become my diitj to
examine it; and, whatever may be my opinion, I feel
a consolation that it is in the power of a higher tribunal to revise my errors1 and award ample jUstice to the
parties.
At the threshold of this enquiry, I lay it down as a
fundamental proposition, that strictly speaking, in war
all intercourse between the subjects and citizens of the
belligerent countries is illegal, unless sanctioned by the
authority of the government, or in the exercise of the
rights of humanity. I am aware that the proposition
is usually laid dowin in more restricted terms by elementary writers, and is confined to commercial intercourse.
Bynkersloek says, " Ex, vatura belli, conamercia inter
hostes cessare, nan est dubitandum. quameis nulla .pe.
ciulis sit commerciorna prohibitio, ipso tamen jure belli
commercia es.se -vetita, ipsaw indictiones bellorunt satis declarant." Bynk. q. J. P. book 1, c. 3. And Nct it
seems not diflicult to perceive that his reasoningextends
to every species of intercourse. ralin, in his commen
tary on the French ordinarnce, speaking of the reason
of requiring the iname mid domicil in a policy, says,
,, Est encore de counaitre, em temn ps de guerre, si inalgri
l'interdiction de commerce, qu" emporte toiiOurs tote declarationde guterre, les sujets dit Roi ne font point comiinerce avec Ies ennemis de 1' Etat, on avec des amis olt
allies, par l'interpositiondcsquels on.ferait passer an.r enVOL. VIIM
25

THE

jutA,
LUCE,
MASTER.

191
TRE
JULIA,

LUCEa,
MASTER.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

nenus des munitions de guerre et de bouche, on d' autree
eJJ'ts prohibs ; car tout cela, itant defen4u come prijudiciable a 1' etat, serait s'ujet a colflscation, et a itre declar de bonne prise." Lib. 1, tit. 6, art. 3, p. 31. In
another place, adverting to a case of neutral, allied,
and French property on board an enemy ship, &c. he
declares it suhject to confiscation, because ,cC' est favorisr le comnnerce de 1' enuemi et faciliter le traunpnrt
de ses denries et marchanlises, ce qui ne peut convenir
aux traites d' alliance ou de neutralit',encore moins aux
sujets du Roi auxquels toute communication a'vec 1"ennemi est etroitement difendu sur peine mine dc la 'vie."
Lib. 3, tit. 9, art. 7, p. 263. And Valin, Traitides Prises, chap. 5, sec. 5, pa 62.
From this last epression it seems clear that Valin
did not understand the interdiction as limited to mere
commercial intercourse. In the elaborate judgment of
sir IV. Scott, in the Hoop, 1, Rob. 66, 196, the illegality
of commercial intercourse is fully established as a doctrine of national law: but it dues not appear that the
case before him retiired a more extended examination
of the subject. The black book of the admiralty contains an article which deems every intercourse with
the public enemy an indictable offence. This article,
which is supposed to be as old as the reign of Edw. III,
directs the grand inquest 6, Soit enquzs de tous ceux qui
entrecommunent, vendent on achetent a'ec aucuns des ene'nis de votre Seigneur le Roi sans license special du Roi
ou de son admiral." But, independent of all authority,
it -wquld seem a necessary result of a state of war to
Suspend all negotiatibns and intercourse between the
subjects of the belligerent nations. 'By the war every
subject is placea in hostility to the adverse party. He
is bound by every effort of his own to assist his own
government, and to counteract the measures of its enemy. Every aid, therefore, by personal communication, or by other intercourse, which shall take off the
pressl've of th war, or foster the resources, or increase
the ,om forts of tlm public enemy, is strictly inhibited,
No coniract is considered as valid between "emies, at
least so far as to give them a remedy iif the Courts of
either . ovrnment; and they bave, in the language of
-the civil law, no ability to sustain a persona s.andiinjudieio. The ground tpon.which a trading with the ene-

FEBRUARY TERM 18i.
my is prohibited, is not the criminal intentions of the
parties engaged in it, or the direct and immediate injury to the state. The principle is ektracted from anoxe
enlarged policy, which looks to the general interests
of the nations, which may b sacrified under the temptatin of unlimited intercourse, or sold by thbe cupidity
of corrupted avarice. In the language of sir fliUam
Scott, I would ask, ,, Who can be insensible to the consequences that might follow,'if every person, in time, of
war, had a right to carry on a commercial intercourse
with the enemy, and, under color of that, had the means
of carrying on any other species of intercourse he might
'think fit ? The inconvenience to the public might be extrene ; and where is the inconvenience on the other
side, that the mer;chant should be compelled, in ouch a
situation of the two countries, to carry on his trade between them (if necessary) under the eye and control of
the government charged with the vare 6f the public
safety ?"
Nor is there any difference between a direct inter.
course between the enemy countries, and an intercourse
through the'medium of a neutral port. The latterjs as
strictly prohibited as the former. 4 Rob. 65, 79. The
J'onge Pieter.
It is argued that the cases of trading with the enemy
are npt applicable, because there is no evidence of actual
commerce i and an irresistible presumption arises front
the nature of the voyage to A neutral port, that no such
trade is intended. If I am 'ight in the position,-that Ait
intercourse, which humanity or. necessity does not require, is prohibited, it will not be very material to decide whether there be a techrlical coiriherce or not.
But is it clear, beyond all doubt, that no inference can
arise of an actual commerce ? The license is issued by
the agents of the British government, and, I must pre,
sume, under its autliority. It is old (as it is stated) in
the market ; and if it be a valuable acquisition, the price
must be proportionate. If such licenses be an article of
sale, I beg to know in what respect they can be distinguishcd from the sale of inerchandize ? If purdiased directly of the British. government, Would it not be a traffic 'with an enemy? If-purchased indirectly, can it
change the natufe of the transaction ? It has been said

TuE

ULI,
LJCE
MASTER.

i96
THE

JULIA,
cE,
II.
]KASTER.

SUPREME COURT U. S.

that if purchased of a nnutral, thie trade in licenses is no
mo re ille-al than the purchase of goods of the enemy fabri, bnafide. conveyed to n.utrals. Perhaps this may,
u'id-r circumstances, be correct: but I do not understand that tho- purchase of goods of enemy man,,facture,
and avowrdly belonging to an enemy, is legalized by
the mere fart of the sale being made in a neutral port.
The goods must have become incorporated into the general stotck of neutral trade,.before a bellig-rent can lawfully become a purchaser. If such licenses be a legitimate article of sale, will they nit enable the British government to raise ,a r.ven6e from our citizens, and
thereby add to their resources of war? Admit, howeier,
that they are not so sold, but are a measure of policy
adopted by Great Britain to further her own interests,
and ensure a constant supply of the necessaries of life,
either.in or through neutral countTies ; can it be a~serted that an American citizen is wholly blameless, who
enters into stipulations and engagements to effect tbeir
purposes ? Is not the enemy thereby relieved from the
pressure of the war, and enabled to wage it more successfu'ly against the other I-ranches of the same commerce not protected by this indulgence?
Itis said that the ca-,e of a personal license is not distinguishable from a general order of council authorizing
and protecting all trade to a neutral countr7. In my
judgmentthey are very distinguishable. The first prp-sip-pees a personal communication with the enemy, and an
avowed intention of furthering his objects, to the exclusion'
of the general trade by other merchants to the sirne country; it has a directtend,:nrv to preventsuch general trade;
and relieves the ens.my from the necessity of resorting to
a general order of prottectim ; it contaminateg .ti,.comthe favored individual with purmercial enterprizes oif
poses not recon:cilable with the general policy of his
country; exposes him to extiaordinarv teffiptation to
surcour the enemy-by intelligence; an! ,ieparates him
from the gen,'ral character of his country, by clothing,
him with all the. effective inter-sts of a neutral. Now
these are some of the leading principles uporf whi h a
trade with the enemy has been adjudged illegal bi the
law,of nations. On the ,,ther hanl, a general order
opens the whole trade of the neutral counitry to every
merchant. It nrc-9u1PDosP no incorporation in enemy

FEBRUARY TERMI

J1,.
4

interests: It'enables the whole mercintile-enterprize of
the country to engage upon equal terms with the traffic;
and it separates no individual from the generhl national
character. It relaxes the vigor of war, not only in that
particular trade, but collaterally opens a path to other
commerce. There is all the difference between the cases that there is between an active personal c6.operation
in the measures of the,enemy) and the merely accidental
aid afforded by the pursuit of a fair and legitimate commleice..

THE

JULI[Ap
LucL,

mASTER.

In the purchase, or gratuity of a license for trade.

there is an implied agreement that the party shall riot
employ it to the injury of the grantor; that he shall conduct himself in a perfectly neutral manner, and avoid
every hostile conduct. I say there is an implied agree-

ment to this effeci, in the very terms .and nature of the
engagement. I am warranted in declaring- this, from
the uniform construction put by Great Britain on the
conduct of lhrown subjects acting under licenses. Can
an American citizep 4e permitted in this" manner to
-carve out for himself a 'nerttr.lity. on the ocean, when
lis -ountry is at War?- Can hejustify himself in refusing
to aid his qountrymen who have fallen into the hands of.
the enemy on the ocean, or decline theWrescue 2 Can he
withdraw his personal services, when the necessities of
the nation require, them ? Can an .engagement be legal,
which imposes upon him the temptation or necessity of
deeming his personal interest at variance with the legitimate objects of his government? I confess that I am
slow to believe that the principles of national law, which
formerly considered the lives iand properties of all enemies as liable 'to the arbitrary disposal of their adversary, are so far relax6d that a part of the people may
laitn to be at peace, while,the residue are involved in
the desolations of war. ,lefore I shall believe the doc-

trine, it mustbe taught me by the highest tribunal of the
nation ; in uliose. superior wisdom and sagacity I shall
most cheerfully repose.

It h:s been said that no case of condemnation can he
found on account ot the use of an enemy license. Admittiun the fact, I am not disposed to yield to the inference that it is therefore lawful. It is one of the many
novel questions which may be presumed to arise out of

SUPREME COURT U. S.
Tynn
3ULlA,
3.ucA,,
MASTER.

the extraordinary state of the world. The silence of
adjudged ces proves nothin either way: It may well
admit ofopposite interpretations. The case of the Vrow
Eli[abeih, 5 Bob. 2, hat been cited by tile captors in
support of file more general doctrine. It-Was a case
where the ship had the flag and pass and documents of
an enemy's ship; and the Court held that the owner
was bound by the assumed character. There is no similiarity in the case before the Court. The ship and
cargo were documented as American and not as British
Rob. 4,) cited on the
property. As little will th e Clarisa,(B5
other side, apply. It was, at most, but a license given by
the Dutch government, allowing a neutral to trade within it- own colony : in all other respects the ship and property-were'avowedly neutral ; and, unless so far as the
English doctrines, as to the colonial tradd could apply,
there was nothing illegal or ijproper in waving any municipal regulations of colonial mohopoly in favor of a
neutral. There was nothing which compromitted the
allegiance or touched the interest of the neutral countr7.
If, however, this license had conferred on the neutral
the special privileges'of a Dutch merchant, or had facilitated the Dutch policy in warding off"the pressure of
the war, it wtuld probably have received'a very different determinatidn. See the reede , oUys, S'Rob. 5,
We all
"ltw('a.) The Rend-ovg$ I Rob. 98, 1i.
know that there are many acts which inflict upon neutrals the penalty of confiscation, from the subserviency
which tley are supposed to indicate to enemy interests;
the carrying of' enemy dispatches ; the transportation
of military liersons ; and tile. adapting of the coasting
trade of the eiemy. The ground of these decisions is
the voluntary interposition of tho'.party to further the
views and interests of one belligerent at the expense of
tht other : . and I cannot doubt that the Glarissa would
have shared the neneral fate, b~it from some crcumstance
of Ipeculiar exomption.
By tile prize code 'of Lewis XIV. (which I quote tim
wlore readily because it is, in general, a compilation, of

prize law as recognized aniong civilized nations,) it is a
sufficient grouail of condemnation that a vessel bears
affa (Traite
commissions from 'two different'states..
des prises, p. 3,.) says, "c.8'6garddu vaisseai'.r> s4
ti irereht des commissions de&it diffets prirxs 6,

FEBRUARY TERM i8i4f.
dats, it est igalementjuste qu' ilsoit declar" de bonne prise, ')ru
soit plarce qu' it se ptut arborer le pavillon de run, en conTULL4,
sequence de sa commission, sansJaireinjure lautre, ceci. iqcy,,
a retc, regarde lcs Fraucaiz contne les itrangers.'" In .. ASTi.rf,
what consists the substantive diffei tnce between navigating urder the conimissions of our oNn and also of another sovereign, and navigating under the protection of the
passport of such sovereign which confers or' compels a
neutral charaiter? Valin, in another place (sur l'ordiiunce, lib. 3, lit. 9, art. 4, p. ni..) d lares, ,, si sur 2(a
a-yvire Franfaisil y a une commnission d'un prince etranger
avec cett de France.it sera de bonne prise, quoiqu'il n'ait
arbori que le p, illon Franftais.' It is truethat he just
before observes, " que ce circonstance de deux conges alt
passe-ports, out de deux connaissements, doit P1un est de
France, et t'antre d'un pays enneni, lie sitffit pas seule
faire declarer le navire ennemi de bonne prise, et que cela
doit depenire des circonstances cpables defaire dcoirvrir
sa ventable destination." But Vahin is refeiria. to tI#4
case of an enemy ship having a passsort of trade from
the sovereign of France. I infer from the language of
Yalin, that a French ship sailing under the passpnrt,
conge, or license of its enemy, without the authority 6f
its own sovereign, would have been lawful prize.
This leads me to another consideration ; and that is,
that the existence and employmient of such a license affords a strong presumption of concealed enemy ihlerest.
or, at least, of ultimate destination for enemy use. It is
inconceivable that any government should allow its protection to an enemy trade, merely out of favor to a neutral nation, or to an ally, or to its enemy. Its own particular and special interests will go.yeijn its tDolicy ; and
the quid pro quo must materially enter into every such
relaxation of belligerent rights. It is, therefore, a fair
inference, either that its subjects partake of the trade
under cover, or that the property, or some portion )f
the profits, finds its way into the channel of the publc
interests.
It has been argued that the use of false or siniulareu
papers is allowable in war as a str'atagem to deceive the
enemy and elude his vigilance. However this may he,
it certainly cannot authorize the use of real papers of a
hostile character, to carry into efrect the avowed pur-

SUPREME COURT U. S.
TUE
JULIA,
LticE,
NlAs'rFm.

pose of the enemy. We may be allowed to deceive our
enemy; but we can never be allowed to set up, a&such
a decepti'an, a concert in his own measures for the very
purposes he has prescribed.
An allusion has been made to the passports or safeconducts granted; in former times, to the fishing vessels
of enemies; and it has been argued that such passports
or safe-conducts have never been supposed to induce the
penalty of confiscation.' This will'at once be conceded,
as to the belligerent, nation who granted these indulgences ; but as to the ,other nation, where such passports
wefe not guaranteed by treaty or mutual pac'ts, I have
no authority to lead nfe to an accurate decision. The
French ordinance of 1543 authorized the admiral to
make fishing truces with the enemy ; and, where no
such truces W'ere niade, to deliver to the subjects of the
enemy, safe-conduct'for fishimg upon the same stipu.
lations as they should be delivered to French subjects
by the enemy. Thisg, therefore, was an authority to be
exercised only in cases of reciprocity; and it seems to
have been abolished from the manifest inconveniehced
which attended.the practice. Yt6in, sur ord. lib. 1, p.
689, 699. I do not think that any argument in favor of
the validity of the present lidnse, (unrecoghized as it is
by our govtrnment,) can be drfawn from these ancient
exaqiples as to fisheries.
It has been argaed that the voyage was-lawful to a
neiltral port, and the mere ise of a license cannot cover
a lawful voyage with the taint of illegality. This, how.
ever, is assuming the yery point in controversy. 'It is
not universally true that a destinaton to a neutral port
-ives ., bonafide chara6ter to the voyage. If the propetty be ultimately destined for ah enemy port or an enemy use, it is clear'that the interp;osition of a neutral port
will not save it from condemnation. 4 Ro?. 65, 79. The
Joge Pieter. Suppose, -in the presentcase, the vessel
and cargo had been destined to Lisbon for the express
use of the British fleet there, could thore be a doubt that
it would have been a 'direct tride with an enemy
Whether the voyage, therefore, be'legal or not, depends
not merely upon the destination, but tne ultimate application of theproperty, or the ascertained intentions of
the party. -A contract to 'carry provisions to St. Bar-

FEBRUARY TERM 18H.
tholomews for the ultimate supply of the British.West
India islands, would be just as inuch an infrij.erment of
the law of war, as a contract for a cirect transpnrtation.
On the whole, I adopt, as a salutary nmaxim of war, the
doctrine of Byukershock. 61fetalur qpoqto modte hosthun utilitati cans?dcre." It'is unlawful in any manner
to lend assistance to the enemy, by 'atoe.inug ourselves
to his policy, sailing under his protection, facilitating
his supplies, and separating ourselves froth the comwon
tharacter of our country.
I am aware that the opinion which I have formed -as
to the general rature of licenses. is encountered by
the decisions. of learned judges for whom I ei.tertain
every possible respect. This circumstance alone, independenit of the novelty and importance of the question,
would awak,.n in my own mind an unusual hesitation 'as
to the correctness of my own opinion : but, after much reflection upon the subject, I Jave not been able to find
sulficient grounds to yieldit; and my duty requires that,
whatsoever may be its imperfections, my own judgment
should be pronounced to the parties.
I am glad, however, to be relieved from the painful
necessity of deciding the more general question, by the
peculiar terms of the present license, which I consider as
afford ng irrefragable proof of an illivit intercourse with
the enemy, and a dir, ct contract to transport the cargo
for the use of the British armies in Spain and Portugal.
The very preaknble to the license of admiral Sawyer
sho. ; -,his in a most explicit manner, and discloses facts
which it is no harshness to declire, are not very honorab!e to the principles or the character of the parties.
It has bret attempted to distinguish the present Claimants from Mr. Elwell, to wh'm tme or~g'nal lic,,nse
was gtanted. It could hardly have been exp cted that
such an attempt would be succissfal. T he a,;sigzwes
cannot place their derivative title -on a better footing
than the original party. They mw st be conidered as
entering into the views and contr ctmng to (ffect.mat, the
intentions of the latter; and, at all events. th,' illegality
of the employment of the license 'attaches indisiolh bly to
their oon~luct. If it were material, however, it might
dv.c. rve consideration how far an actual assignment is
VoI. VIII.
1o

THE
JULIA.

Luozr,
_MAs'rER.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
shown in the case. It rests on the affidavit of one of
the Claimants, and on the mere face of papers which
carry no very decisive character, and are quite reconLt.rm,,
"MIASTEII. cileable with concealed interests in other persons, as the
records of prize Courts abundantly show. However, I
only glance at this subject, as it in no degree enters into
tl~e ingredients of my j udgm. nt.
Tm

JULIA,

A very bold proposition-was, at one time, advanced
in the argument by the Claimanis' counsel, that if this
carg,, had beon actually destined to Portugal for the use
of the allied armies of Great Britain and Portugal, or
even for the use of the British army, it would not be an
offence against the laws of war. In the sequel, if I rightly understand, this proposition, in this alarming extent,
was not contended for; and certainly it is utterly untenable upon the principles of national law.
But it was insistod on, that the British armies in Portugal and Spain were to be considered as incorporated
into the armies of those kingdoms, and as not holding
the British character.
If I could so far forget the public facts of which, sitting in a prize Comrt, I'an bound to take notice, there
is sufficient in the papers before me to prove the contrary 6f this suggestion. In admiral Sawyer's license and
Mr. Allen's certificate they are expressly called th allied armies ; thereby plainly admitting a separate character and organization: and so, in point of fact, we all
k now it to be; if, indeed, the British character be 'not
predominant throughout these countries. I reject the
distinction, therefore, as utterly insupportable in point
of fa4.
-It has been further argued that, if the condtict ba illegal, it is but a personal misdemeanor in no degree affect:
ing the vessel and- carg ; and at all events, that the illegality was extinguished by the terminati n of the outward voyage. The principles of law' aff .1 no countenance to either part of the proposition. i the property
be engaged in an illegal traffic with the entemy, or even
in an attempt to trade, it is liable to confiscation as well
on the ,A'urn as on the outward voyage: and it may be
assumed as a proposition, liable to few, if any, excep-

FEBRUARY TERM 181A.
lions, that the property which is rendered auxiliary or
subservient to enemy interests, becomes tainted with forfeiture.

THE

JULUI,
LUCE,
M ASTEt.

I cannet but remark that the license in tins case, issued within our own territory by an agent of the British government, carries with it a peculiarly obnoxious
character. This circumstance, which is founded on an
assumption of consular authority that ought to hae
ceased with the war, afbrds the strongest evidence of
improper intercourse. The public dangers to which it
must unavoidably lead, by fostering interests. vithin
th bosom of the country,, against tbe measures of the
'goN ernnt, and the breach of faith wiich it imports in
a public functionary receiving the protection of the government, can never he lost sight of in a tribunal 'of
justice. I forbear to dwell further on this -delicato
subject.
Upon the whole, I consider the property" .gaged in
this transaction as stamptd with the hostile characer ;
and I entirely concur in the decisi n of the district
,judge, which pronounced it subject to condemnation."

TIE AURORA, PINE,

31STE.

THIS Nas an appeal from the Circuit Court for
dwi district of Rhod Isiand.
The folloving were the material facts of the case-:

The

ceep-

The and por"at enemy's
iense on, g
Voyage to a
neutral port,

Sonme months after the declaration of war, the ship prosecuted il
fitherance of
Aurora, documented as American property, and owned the enemy's
by Thomas M. Clarke and Ebeezer VXhjelright, the avoled ohClaimants, who are Anieica citizens, saiIr7fromn New- ,and iletl,
burypirt to Norfolk, in ballast. At the latter place esseand car.
ste took in a carg o consisting of bread, flour, corn, &c. goto confiseca.
and sailed from thence on or about the 12th November, ris not neet.
' 11)Order
1812, ostensibly for St. Bartholomews, a neutral island. "11
to 'Ubjeet the
helonging to the Swedes, for which port site bad obtain- ,, uvodtth

