SUPREME COURT U. S.
ToE
ST. LAW
RE.NcE,

WEBB,
MASTER.

goods, on freight, to this country, without affecting

thereby the safety

f his own goods;' are questions

which the Court does not now decide, and will therefore
suspend, at present, giving any final opinion on the
claim of Mr. M'Gregor to a part of the cargo ; who,
in the mean time, is also at liberty to make further
proof on tile same points with Mr.,Penniman ;-tie captors having the same right.
It may be well doubted whether Mr. Ogden hnd Mr.
M,Gregor have any title to the St. Lawrence: but whether she belong to them or to Messrs. Dickey End
Thoipson, her fate -seems necessarily involved in the
decision of the Rapid, which was made this term. Site
vent to England since the war, and is taken bringing
a cargo'from that country. If the whole of the carlgo
had belonged to Mr. MGregor, or any other American
returning with his property to the United States, the
Court means not to say whether it would or woqld not
have been cause of forf-'iture: but when we find but a
small portion of the cargo in that predicament, there
can be no e.cape for her. The St. Lawrence was certainly guilty of trqding with the enemy; and, being
taken on her way from one of his ports to the United
States, site is liable, on that ground, to be confiscated
as prize of war, to whomever shte might belong at the
time.
Upon the whole, the sentence of the Circuit Court is
.affirmed in all its parts, with costs; 'except so far as it
condemned those por:ions of the cargo which were claimed by Mr. Penniman and Mr. MGregor, respecting
which this Court will advise until the next term.

THE HIRAM,

BALEKF, MASTER.

sailing
on a
THI$ was a case of capture, as prize, by the pri"voLn
tg,inder
th ,i~ceeandvate armed brig Thorn, duly commissioned by the
passport of

president of the United States, and commanded by Ass

protection of Hooper, Esq.

FEBRUARY TERM 1i14.
THEr
'The Hiram, owned by Saivuel G. Griffith, an American citizen, sailed from Baltimore on or about the 21th HIRAM,
of September. 181.,; with a cargo of flour and bread, on BAKBA,
a voyage to Lisbon. She was captured On the 15th of MAR'F,.
October followin. , and sent into Marblehead, in the
district of Massaclusetts, for adjudication. She was the enemy, in
libelled inthe district Court for tle said district, by the his ,oiewsor in

consticaptors. The vessel was claimed by Barker, the mas- ter'-ts,
suili an
atofilleg.it
ter, in behalf qf Sanuel G. Griffith; and the cargo by tutes

the supercargo. in behalf of said Griffith and various as sutjcts thl

other shippers, American merchants at Baltimore.

ship an&ctgo
tion as prize of

Among the papers found on board the Hiram. at the-S-a.ling

ith

timr, of her capture, were certain papers commonly call- a'lof ith.
ed a British license or protection, being a cerlified copy sons to thc,

of a ,enti-al, who is the
of a letter from admiral Sawyer to' Andrew Allen, esq. port
of
our en.
ally
letter
additional
and
an
at
Boston,
consul
British
late
his wa
vl~h inanotuer
of safe conduct from .Mr. Allen. It appearfod from the e-y
or is h
evidence, that this license was purchased from a ,6tizen power,
of the United States, and that a part of it was net filled a furdierAnce
licenses of theviewsof
up at the time of the purchase; and that suchand
otheror enemy.
were a common article of sale in Baltimore
places.

There was also found on board, the owner's letter of
instructions, in N~hich the supercargo was directed to
remit the proceeds of the cargo in bills of .xchange or
government bills to the shipper's correspondents in Liverpool ; and moreover to sell the vessel at Lisbon, itan advantageous' sale could be made, and remit the
proceeds to England.
It appeared from the evidence in the cause, that such
remittances in bills of exchange were common among
merchants.
The captors claimed condethmation of the vessel and
cargo,
1. Because of the British protection or license.
2. Because the remittances were directed to be made
in England in bills of exchange.
The district and Circuit Courts both decided that

SUPREME COURT U. S.
neither the vessel nor cargo were liable to condemnation ; but allowed the captors their expenses. From
BARKER. the decree of the Circuit Court both parties appealed.
THE

)iRAM,

MASTER.

SWANN, for Claimants.
The opinions delivered in the cases of the .Auroraand
the Julia may, perhaps, upon first view, -be considered
as deciding the present case: but upon a closer examination, it will be found that the facts in this case differ
materially from those which appeared in the two fo1er.
In the first place, in the case of the .Aurora,there was
an intent to supply the enemy-there was an intent
to trade with the enemy: there was a direct violation of
the act of congress of 6th July, 1812: but here, there
was no such violation. The license, in this case, was
merely to trade with the neutral ports of Spain and
Portugal. The present case differs from that of the
Julia, inasmuch as the claim here is for the cargo only,
and the license is for the -vessel; whereas there, the li.
cense extended as well to the cargo as the vessel.
But these papers do not, in fact, import a license:
they only intimate an intended forbearance, on the part
of Great Britain, to molest a lawful trade to Spain and
Portugal. Here was no sailing under the pro -ction of
Great Britain.
Again, this license, as it is called, was purchased as
an artiole of commerce, from a private individual ; not
f'on admiral Sawyer nor from Mr. Allen: it is only a
copy of admiral Sawyer's lett'r certified by Allen. Tho
obtaining such a copy of the letter was not unlawful.
Besides, there is no evidence that admiral Sawyer
ever pgave the directions, mentioned in his letter, to the
commanders of the sqna-dron under his command, not
to molest American vessels laden and bound as therein
described. Indeed, his power to give such instructions
does not appear: and if frther proof be. allowed, wecan prove that licenses of this description were. in fact'
disregarded in other cases'.

FEBRUARY TERM i8i4.
DEXTzr,

contra.

In answer to the argument, that the license in this
case related to the vessel only, while the claim is for the
cargo alone, it may be observed, that the owners of the
cargo were the owners of the license, which ought therefore to be considered as extending to the cargo as well
as to the vessel. The license was undoubtedly intended
as a protection. The voyage was clearly undertaken
in furtherance of the views of the British government,
as expressed in admiral Sawyer's letter annexed to the
pass : and I understand the ground of the decision in
the case of the .urora to be, that she sailed under the
protection, and in furtherance of the views, of the
enemy.
But if the Court should not consider the sailing under the license sufficient cause of dondemnation, we contend that this was also a case of indirect trade with the
enemy ; inasmuch as the proceeds of the cargo were directed by the owner to be remitted from Lisbon to Liverpool in bills of e.xchange.
SwANN, iz. reply.
Buying a bill of exchange on England is not trading
with the enemy. A man may, in an enemy country,
purchase a ship from a neutral. I Rob. 232, 283, the
Countess of Lauderdale. Sailing unier an enemy's pass,
withont trading with the enemy, is no cause of cond. innation.
There was not, in this case, such a subserviency to
the views of the enemy, as ought to subject the property
in question to the sentence prayed for by the captors.
It is certainly lawful for the enemy to relax the rights
of war: he may lawfully declare that lie will suffler
certain vessels to pass : and we conceive that if those
vessels sail under the faith of such a declaration, it is no
cause of condemnatian. The enemy might have declared that he would not capture any vessel navigated
wholly by Boston seamen ; but surely our governmeni
would not condemn a vessel for sailing under the faith
of such a declaration.

'HP
HIRAM,
BARK-Er.
MASTER.

SUPREME COURT VI. S.
TrI.

Wedvesdayj, Mfarch 16th.. Absent...MARsHAL1, Ch. T.

3 IaAM,

IAflE ER
R
---.-

WASHINGTONp J dt livered the opinion of the Court.

This vessel was the property of Samuel G. Griffith,
an American citizen. On or about tie 2l:i of September,
.8i2, she sailed, with a cargo of flour and bread, from
Baltitnore to Li.bon ; and on ner voyage thither, was capi
tu'ed, on the i5th of October following, by the privateer
brig Thorn, and brought into the district of Massachusutts, where she ad her ca' go were-libelled as being enemies' property.
The brig was claimed by the-master, in behalf of GijW
fith, and the cargo by the supercargo, as belonging to
the said Griffith, and other shippers, bein.g American
toerchants of.Baltimore. Among the papers found on
board of this vessel at the time (if the capture, was a letter from admiral Sawyer, dated the Sth of August, 1812,
nddr'essMd to Andrew Allen, junr. as British consul t1or
the states of, Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Rhode
lIland and Connecticut, which stat.'s, that, Peii. aware
of the importance of ensuring a constant supply of flour
and other dry provisions to Spain and Portugal, and to,
the West Indies, lie should give directions to the coimanders of his majesty's squadron under his commnanO,
not to molest American vessels unarmed and so laden,
bouafide bound to Portuguese an(l Spanish ports, whose
pap~r should be accompanied -. ith a certified copy ot
that letter ,uder the consular seal of the said tilei : also a letter from the siid Allen, dated 15th September,
v312, addressed to all the officers of-his majesty's ships
nf war, or privateers belonging to stibjects of hi4 ma.jesty- reciting that it is of vital importance to continue a
full'and regular supply of flour and other dry provisions
to the-ports of Spaini and Portngal, or their colonies, and
fliat, in conseq!uence thereof, it h:as been thought expedient by his majesty's. government that every degree of
protection and encoura.gement should be given-to American vessels 'so laden, and boun'd to the ports of 'Spain
and Portugal or their colonies, and. that, in.furtherance
of these views of his majesty's government, admiral
Sawyer had directed to him' a letter dated the 5th of
August, i1-7,' (a copy of which is annexed.) with instriuctions to furnish American vessels so laden and dei-

FEBRUARY TERM isis,
fined, with a copy of his letter certified under his, the, T LE
said Allen's, consular seal, which documents are ntend- HIRAMy
ed to serve as a perfect safe-guard and protection tk- such BANKER,
vessel iii the prosecution of her voyage; and that, in AIASTPB.
compliance with such instructions, he has granted to the
American brig Hiram, whereof Johit B. Barker is master, now lying in the pwt of Baltimore, and laden wi h
flour and bread, bound bonafide to Lisbon, a copy of the
said admiral Sawyer's letter certified u'der his consular
seal, requesting all officers of his majesti 's ships of war,
or of private armed vessels belonging to subjects of his
majesty, not toi .ffer any molestation to the said vwssel,
but, on the contrary, to grant her all proper assistance
and protection on her passage to Lisbon, and on her return from thence to her port of departure, laden with
salt or in ballast only.
Under an order calling upon the different Claimants
to give further proof relath e to the British license found
on board the brig, when and where it was obtained, of
whom, arid by whom, ind on what terms, and, generally, relative to all facts and circumstances cioncerning
the procurement of the same, William IHartshorn made
an affidavit stating that he purchased for Mr. Griffith,
the owner of the vssel, in September, 182, from Johin
R. Waddy, of Virginia, but then in Baltimore, a citizen
of the United Stat.-s, a license to protect a vessel laden
with provisions and bound to Lisbon, from capture b)
Britishi cruizers, for which he was to pay one dollar per
haei-e for what the vessel would carry, payable 9500 in
cash, and the balance on the safe arrival of the Vessel
at Lisbon: that the said license was in blank, for inserting the names of any vessel and master: and that the
blanks in the said license were filled up in his presence.
This witness, as well as others, states that these licenses
form an article of traffic in market$ as much so as flour.
The vessel and cargo were acquitted in the District
Court, and a proforma decree of affirmance made in the
Circuit Court; from which decree an appeal to this
Court was taken.
In the qase of the Julia, decided at this Court, it was
laid down in gent-ral terms, ",that the sailing on a voyage under the license and passpqrt of protection of the
57
VOL. VII.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
enemy, in furtherance of his views or interests, constitugts sa h an act of illegality as subjects the ship and
chI'go to confiscation as prize of war ;" and, as explanMASTER. atotr) of the general reasons for that opini6n, a reference
was made to the opinion of th.: lear ied judge who decided thaL case in the Circuit Court.
Tnz
1RIRAM,
BAEV ZR,

It is contended by the counsel for the Claimants, that
the facts in this case differ so materially from those
which appear in the case of the Julia, that the principles
of law which ruled that case are inapplicable to this, and,
consequently, ought not to govern the decision of the
Court upon it.
There certainly are some differences in the two cases;
and these were considered sufficiently strong by the districtjudge %ho acquitted this vessel and cargo, to condemn the Juiia and her cargo.
The important circumstance which appears to have
influenced the decision of the distrit judge in that case,
was, that the license contemplated the meaTis of ensuring
a coitstant supply of dry provisions to the allied armies in
Spain and Portugal, and, consequently, an unlawful connexion with the enemy to supply hi armies, and a subserviency to the interests of that enemy. In this case, no
such views are expressed in the license of admiral Sawyer; yet the Court must be wilflly blind not to see that
this was, in Peality, the object of admiral Sawyer and of
31Mr. kllen, and thait it must have been so understood by
those who sailed under this license.
In both cases, the allied armies were to be supplied,,
not by sales made directly to their agents, (for this
is not roquired by either,) but by carrying supplies to
the Peninsula, which would indirectly come to their use.
The license, as well as the letter of Allen accompanying
it, points out the gr'at importance of such supplies being
sent to Spain ad Portugal ; and the latter adds, that, in
furtherance of these Tiews ?I his majesty's government, hB
had bein dirert.-d by admiral Sawyer to furnish a copy
of his letter to vessIs so laden and destined. Can it be
qaid that an American citzen, sailing under the protection of papers professing such to be the views of the Bri.
tish go~ernment, does not act in such a manner as to sub-

FEBRUARY TERM 1814.
serve the views and interests of the enemy ? Upon the
whole, the Court is of opinion that there is no substantial
difference between this case and that of the Julia; and
that this is fully within the principle laid down by this
Court in decidinig that.case, and the reasoning to which
it refers.

TUB
HIRA-st
BATEE,

MASTER.,

It was stated, on the behalf of the Claimants of the
cargo, that they ought not 'to he affected by the illegal
act of tize owner of the vessel in sailing under the protection of this license. It is a sufficient answer to this
argumet to observe, that, in-this case, the Court must
presume that the license was known fo the owners of the
cargo, if it was not the joint property of 'all. It is inconceivable that the. owne.r of the vessel should expend
about 1600 for the protection of a cargo in which it appears he was not largely conc rned, without communicating such an advantage tb hid shippers, and even iequir.
ing some reimbursement, either by demanding higher
freight, or compensation in some other way. But what
is conclusive on this point, is, that an order for further
proof in relation to this license was made, and yet no
affidavit or proof is offered by any of the owners, denying a knowledge of these documents being on board.
The decree must breversed, and the vessel and cargo
condemned to the captors as prize of war.

THE JOSEPH,

SARGEAXT, MASTER.,

THIS was the case of a vessel, the Joseph, owned

Cae ofronle

States. She arrived in Liverpool, and there discharged
her cargo.; and, on the 30th of June following,, with
another cargo, of mahogany, taken in at Hull, sailed
for St. Petersburg under the protection of a British ii-

the opinon of

by American citizens, captured by the privateer Fame trade. Not .
on the 16th of July, 1813. The Joseph sailed from Bos- ede t the
ton with a cargo nn freight, on or about the 6th dfaming findApril, 181% on a voyage to Liverpool and the north of to Pay th
Rurope, and thence directly or indirectly to the United ship; nor by
an

merican

t:nitr,
ex-

pressd to the
by sderta.

cense, granted on the 8th of June, isi2, authorizing ingthevoyage

