FEBRUARY TERM i8i.

THE RAPID, PERRY, MASTEIR.

THIS was an appear from the sentence of the Circuit After a de-

Court, for the District of Massachusetts.

The material facts in the case wer'e these.

war by the United States against that-country, and deposited them on a small island belonging to the English,
called Indian island, and situated near the line betw cex
Nova Scotia and. the United States. Upon the breaking out of the war, Harrison's agents in Boston hired
the Rapid, a vessel licensed and enrolled for the cod fishery, to proceed to the place of deposit and,'brin: away
the goods. Theltapid accordingly sailed from Boston
on the 3d of July, 18:2, with Harrison, the Claimant, on
board, proceeded to Eastport, where Harrison was left,
and from thence, agreeably to Harrison's orders, to Indian island, where the cargo in question was taken on
board., On the sth of July, while on her return, she
was capthred by the Jefferson privateer, on the high
seas, and brought into Salem. The goods, being libelled
as prize, and claimed by Harrison as his property,-were
condemned, in the Circuit Court of Massachusetts, to
the captors, on the ground that by it tradinqg with the
,enemy," they had. acquired the character of enemies'
property.
A claim was also interposed by the United States, on
the ground of a violation, by the Rapid, of the non-intercourse act. This claim was also rejected. From the
decree of the G&rcuit Court the Unite~d States and
Harrison appealed.
HAU-aPpR, for

me

,-titA

ot
-

+gi,,.
7.
Litt fully endl

a WWseI
to thu
Ctlthly's Coun
had purcldsed a quantity WIyto hbri. " _
before the (leclaration oiperty.

Jabez Harrison, a native American citizen, the Claimant and Appellant inthis case,
of English goods in England,

cltrfl

Harrison.

Tihe ground of condemnation, in the Circuit Court
of the goods in question, was, that tradingwith the ene•my made them enemies' property. But we contend
that, in this case, there was no trading-'withthe enem.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
Trading4 is a commercial contract or a series of contracts of sale. Contract is of' the essence of trading.
iputy, But no commercial transaction of this kind took place
The contract, in
AIA'rriz. b ,tween Harrison and the enemy.
the present case, was made, the goods were purchased
and paid for.bejfre ithe declaration of war; consequently, when the British .vereft emls. Hfere was merely a
ease of removal by Harrison of his own property from
the enemies' country to this, it was the simple (xercise
of an act of ownership, -anact \ hich sirely does not invest the property with a hostile character.
TH,

AiD,

Every citizen has a right, on the breaking out of a
war. to withdraw his property, purchased before the
war, from the-enemy's country and remove it to his
own ; and it is certainly the interest of the community
to permit such removal.
'The cargo, therefore,, N ng American property,
neither the declaratior of war nor the commission of
tie priv:.teer authorized the ci.pture.
Bxtt this case. does not rest on general principles
alone. In the case of Hallet v. Jenks, 3, Cranch, -10,
flie actual purchase of a cargo in a Frenri, port wvas de,ided by this Court to be no ijolation of thu non-inher.
course act of 13th .Tune, 1798, a case much strouner
than the"present. Congress, also, has given a very different construction to transactions of this kind by the
act of 27th February, 1813, (laws U. S. vol 11. p"ss,)
remitting the forfeitures which had acrcrued under the
non-intercourse act. of March -st, 1809. Laws U. S.
eel. 9, p. 2-43.
The claim of the United States will not, at this time,
be interposel.*,
* PIETMA,, cantra, contended,

1. That it appearing, on t0e f.3ce of harrison's claim,
that the property in questiol was put on board the Rapid in violatlon of the lavvs of the United Slates, he can
Th cl-aim was subsequently, during the same term, reviied, and an ar-ument had thetr-upm. The decision of the Court will be found in the opimon delivered March 15th, in the case of the Sally.

FEBRUARY TERM 1814.

have. no standing in Court for the purpose of claiming
the same.
In tupport of this point lie cited the following cases.
2 Rob. 7 . 77: The Walsingham Paelzet.-5 Rob. 28.3.
The Cornelis and /laria.-6 Rob. 318. The Igeovery.

2. That all intercourse with the enemy being illegal,
the vessel and argo in question are subjectedto confisca-

tion a prize. The foowing cases were cited as t oing
to eqtablish this point
Duponctau's Bynkershoek p. 24.
5 Rob. 224., Z53, 4.. The Abb,.- d. 302. The . Junge
Cassii.-I Rob. 2o18. '48.
The Odin.-id. 178, 212.
Casa of the Fortund, citd" in the case of the Hfop.-Ed7vards' .di. Rp. ;3-.
The Comt.-i Rob. 76. The
Santa Critz.- I. i9g. The Hoop.-id. 71, 89. l
Rbtegle J'cTeb.-i Boi. and Pul. 349. Case of the Lopisa .1ar uretha. cited in Bell -4. Gibson.-8 7' R. 156.
Case of St. Philip, cited in Potts -v. Bell. -d. 561. Lord
JW'enywes opinion.-3 Rob. .Jpx. B. p. 7, 291. The Angdique.-. Rob. 289, 335. Th Ve'ins.-id. 206, 251.
The Alayade.-l Rob. 1-16, 150. The Vrowv Judith.-id.
78, 93. The Betseqt.-id. 1'-, 170. The .eptuns.-id.
18-. 219. Case of the lelly cited in note to the case of
the Uop.-I Rob. 161. 19.5. Oladonna delle Graeie.-5
Rob. 1-it.
Tff'ro' Catharana.
PiNK Ey, on the same side.

By the constitution of the United States, congress has
power to declare war. War. in the present case, had
been declared. After knowledge of the declaration of
war, the Claimant fitted -out a vssel togo to the enemies'
country to bring away hk prnperty. The voyage ivas
accordingly prosecuted, and the property, brought away.
By tl is intrcourse with the enemy the vessel and cargo are to he coniider .d as having adhered to the enemy,
and as being, Iwo hac vice, hostile.
With regard to the general principle, that trade with
an enemy is illgal, there can be no doubt: the principle i; recog, ized by the common law and by the maritir,. codes of all the European nations. By these laws
all intercourse with an enemy, not sanctioned by the
sovereign power, is prohibited.
This principle isfnded on the strongest reasons. Without this satII

THE
rEX1PID,
PLRRY,

-IMASTER.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
THE
RAPID,
PEmY,

MASTER.

tary provision, what a wide door would be opened
for every species of treasonable intercourse. The Englis- authorities are *almost omnipotent on this subject,
Vid. 8, T. R; 554.,. Polls v. Bell. Sir J. .Nicholl's arjgu.
mert, and the cases there cited. Many of these authorities are julicial decisions in cases which occurred before
the revolution. The principle contended for was therefore brought over, b'efore 'that time, by the English
emigrants, to this country, and is consequently to be
considered of equaI.fdrcq here as in England.
The doctrine, then, may be considered as established.
The voyage, in this case, was undertaken by Harrison with full knowledge of the war-against hid double
-duty-in violation both of the non-importation act and
of the rights of war.
But the Appellants have attempted to take a distinction between a purchase made before the declaration of
war and a' purchase made since ; and they contend that.
,as' the purchase, in the present case, was made previous
to the declaration of war, tl'e propei'ty is not liable to
¢onfiScation, no trading having been carried on with the
enemy. But all the cases on this subject condemn such
a distinction. dAny commerciat intercourse with the enemy is trading,within, the meaning of the term as used in
prize law ; and that. for the very obvious reason before
assigned, viz: that if commercial intercourse of 'any
kind were permitted, it would facilitate the means of
carrying on a traiterous correspondence.
The case of Hallet v. Jenks, S, Cranch, 210, cited by
the Appellants, was a case of clear compulsion. The
tra nsaction in the present case was perfectly voluntary.
HARPER, in reply.

No case has been cited by the Claimant's counsel, in
which there was not a trading with the enemy. Here,
we contend,- there was none. In the case of Escott, cited in the case-of the Hoop, 1, Rob. 182, the goods werb
flie product of a trade long carried on, and shipped under fictitious names. Here they were shipped openly.
No circumstances of suspicion attended the transaction,

FEBRUARY TERM 1814.
In some of tile cases cited, part of the goods were purchased after the declaration of war. All the cases cited
are either new acts of trade, or a continuation of trade
in the regular course of employment of the parties, and
are also attended with circumstances of suspicion.
The mere act of going into the enemies' country is not
illegal. Any man may go thither at any time, if the
enemy will permit him. He violates no law of his own
country by so doing. Those laws prohibit commercial
intercourse only; and that, not because it gives'an opportunity of affording information to the enemy tnd
opens a door for the commission of traiterous pra~tces,
but because such prohlbitioh is rendered necessary by
the modern mode of warfare, y,,hich is intended to affect
the enemy through his commerce. The principle and
object of tile rule, therefore, are not applicable to this
case. The-rule is contined to commercial transactions
and commercial objects. If facility of treasonable intercourse were the reason on which tle prohibition is
founded, it would operate to prevent our citizens from
going to the frontiers, or even towards them, an operation which was surely never intended to be given it.
The question to be considered in every case of this nature isthis: has the privilege of going to the enemies'
country been applied to improper purposes?
* onday, Jlarcl 7th. .4.bsent....ToDl, J.
JoHnsol-, J. delivered the opirion of the Court as
follows :
This capture was made on the high seas; .about a
month after the declaration of war. The Claimant,
Harrison, had purchased a quantity of English goods
in England, ,,a long time,".to use his ow.A language,
before the declaration of war, and deposited them on a
small island, called Indian island, near to the line between Nova Scotia and these states.% Upon the breaking out of the war, his agents in Boston hired the Rapid, a licensed vessel in the cod-fishery, to proceed to
the place of deposit and bring away these goods. On
her return, she was captured by the Jefferson privateer,
and was condemned for trading with the enemy's country.

TE.
P.AI'JJJ
FERRY,
MASTER.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
THLu
On the argument, it was contended, in behalf of thk
Aplicllant. that thi-z was not a trading within die meanu.tipi,
PERny, ing otf the case,, cited to supp rtthe cundnin'ation; fliat4
M.STER. on the.breaking out of a war, every citizen had 4 right,
and it was the iinterest of the community to permit her
citizens, to withdraW prop rLy lying in an enoni.'s country and purchased betore the war ; finally, that neither
the declaration of',.%ar , 'nor the commission of the privateer authorized the capture of this vessel and cargo,
as they were, ,in fact, American property.
It is understood that the claim of the United States
for the forfeiture is not now interposed. The Court,
therefore, enters upon this consideration unen'arraised
by a claim which would otherwise ride over every quvs.
tiou now before us.
This is the first case, since its organization, in which
this Court bas heen called upon to assert the rights of
war agaiiist the property of a citizen. It is with extreme hesitation, andtiunder a deep sense of the dclicacy
of the duty which we are called upon to discharge. that
we proceed to adjudge the forfeiture of private right,
upon principles of' public law highly penal in their uature; and unfortunatcly too little understood.
But -t new state of things has occurred-a new character has fien assumcd by this nation, which inv,,lves it
in new relations, and confers on it new rights ; which
imposes a new class of obligations on our citizens, and
iubjects them to new penalties;
The nature and consequences of a state of war must
direct us to the conclusions which we arc to form on
this case.
(in thig point there is rially hr difference of opinion
anmoug Jurists: there can be none amon.- those who
will distinguish between what it is in itsilf, and what
it ought to be under the irfluence of a benign morality
and the modern practice of civilizeil nations.
In the state of war, nati')n is known to nation only by
'their armed exterior ; each threoitening the other with
conquest or annihilation. The individuals Nili corn-

FEBRUARY TERM 1,814.
pose the belligerent states, exist, as to each other, in a
state of utter occlusion. If they meet, it is Qnly in combat.

THE
RAPID,
PERRY,

War strips man of his social nature; it demands of' MASTEB.
him the suppression of those sympathies which claim*
man for a brother ; and accustoms the ear of humanity
to hear with indifference, perhaps exultation, ,,that
thousands have been slain."
These are not the gloomy reveries of the bookman.
From the earliest time of which historians have written or
poets imagined, the victorconquered but to slay, and slew
but to triumph over the body of the vanquislhed. Even
when philosophy had done all tat philosophy could d6
to soften the nature of man, war continued the gladiatorian combat: tie vanquished bled wherever caprice
pronaunced her fiat. To the benign influence of the
Christian religion it remained to shed a few faint rays
upon the gloom of war; a feeble light bdt barely suflicient to disclose it horrors. Hence, many rules have
been introduced into modern warfare, at which humanity must rejoice, but which owe their existelce altogether to mutual concession, and constitute so many vo.
luntary relinquishments ot the rights of war. To understand what it is in itselL. and what it is under the
influence of modern practice, we have but too many
opportunities of comparing the habits of savage, with
thnawsof civilized warfare.
On the subject which particularly affects this case;
there has been no general relaxation. The universal
sense of nations has acknowledg.-d the demoralizing effects that would result from the admission of individual
intercourse.

The whole nation are embarked in one

common botton, and must be reconciled to submit to
one common fate, Every individual of the one nation.
must acknowledge every individual of the other nation
as his own enemy-because the enemy of his coutury.
It is rot necessary to quote the authorities on this. subject ; they are nurflerous, explicit, respectable, and have
been ably commented upon in the argument,
But, after deciding what is the duty of the citizen, the
question occurs; what is the consequence of a breach
of that duty?
VOL. VIIL

SUPREBME COURT U. S.
,Hnt
The law of prize is part-of the l-w of nations. In it.
a*Pim, a hostile character is attached to trade, independently or
pERR y the .,character of the trader who pursues or directs it.
MASTER. Condemnation to the use of the captor is equally the fate
-o ftheproperty of the belligerent, and of the property found
engaged in anti-neutral trade. But acitizen or ally may be
engaged in a hostile trade, and thereby involve his property-in the fate of those in whose cause he embarks.
This liability of the property of a citizen to condemnation as prize of war, may be likewise accounted for
under other considerations. Every thing that issues
from a hostile country is, pintafizcie, the property or
the enemy ; -and it is incumbent upon the claimant to
support the negative of the proposition. But if the
claimant be a citizen or an ally at the same time that he
makes out his interest, he confesses the commissiou of an
offence which, under a well known rule of the civil law,
depiives him of his right to pirdsecute his claim.
This doctrine, however, does not rest upon abstract
reason. It is silpp.).rted by the practicef tie most enlightened (perhaps- we may say or all) commercial nations. And it affiords us foll confidence in our decision,
that we find, upon rdcurrin- to the records of the. Court
of appeals in prize cases established during the revohti6nary war, that, in various cases, it was reasoned
upam as the acknowledged law of that Court. Certain
it is that it was the law of En.-land before the revolution,
and therefore constitutes a part of the admiralty and
maritime jurisdiction conferred on this Court- it pursuance of the constitution.
After ta~khn this general view of tile-principal doctrine on this subject, we will consider the points made
in behalf of the claimant in this case, and,
t. Whether this was a trading, in the eye of the prize
law, such as will subject the property to capture
The force of the argument on this point, depends upon
the termh made use'of. Ifby triding, in prize law, was
me.ut that signification ofthe term which cmnsists in negotiation or cout,-act, this case would certainly not come
under the penalties of the rule. Buf the olliect. policy and
spirit of the rule is to cut off all communication or actu

FEBRUARY TERM 181,
al locomotive intercourse between individuals of the belligerent states. Negotiation or contract has, thertdor6,

TnE
RAPID,

no necessary coinexion v ith the offence.
Intercourse PERRY,
inconsistent with actual hostility, is the offence against MASTER.
which the operation of the rule is directed: and by sub- stituting this definition for that of trading -with an enemy, an answer is given to this argument.
2." Whether, on the brealing out of a war, the citizen,
Ias a right to remove to his own country with his property, is a question which we conceive does not arise
in this case. This claimant certainly had not a right
to leave the United States for the purpose of bringing
home his property from an enemy country; niuch
less could he clairm it as a right to bring into this country goods, the importation of which was exprcssly prohibited. As to thie claim for the vessel, it is founded on
no pretext whatever; fbr tbh undertaking, besides being in violation of two laws of the United States, was
altogether voluntary and inexcusable.
With regard to
the importations from Great Britain about this, time,
it is well known that the forfciture was released on
grounds of policy and a supposed obligation induced by
the assurances wliieh had been held out by the American charge d'affaires in England. But 'this claimaint

could allege no such excuse.
3. On the third point, we are of opinion that the foregoing observations furnish a sufficient -nswer.
If the right to capture property thus offending, grows
out of the state of war, it is enough to support the condemnation in this case, that the act of congress should,
produce a state of war, and that the commissiort of, tire
privateer should authorize the capture of any property
that shall assume the belligerent character.
Such a character we are of opinion this vessel and
cargo took tfpon herself; or at least, she is deprived of
the rilt
to prove herself otherAise.
We are aware that there may exist considerable hardship in this case ; the owners, both of vessel and cargo, may have been unconscious that they were violating
the duties which a state of war imposed upon them. It
does not appear that they meant a daring violation eith.

SUPREME COURT U. S
THE

RAPiD,
PFRRY,
N.1A TER.

er of the laws or belligerent rights of their country.
But it is the unenvied province of this Court to be dir,,cted by the head, and not the heart. In deciding upon principles that must define the rights and duties of
t-- citizen and direct the future decisions of justice, no
latitude is left for the exercise of feeling.
Friday, .March lith.
The claim of the United States was taken up.
RusH, .attorney Generl.
The United States claim the property in question, as
a forfeitu'e under the non-intei course act of ist March,
1909. This act was in force at the br.aking out of the
'%Nar, and still continued in force at the time of the captare of the Rapid. The 6th section of the act declares
the prohibited goods liable to forfeiture immediately on
being shipped with intention ofimporting the same into
the United States. The United Sates do not claim in
any case but where the vessel was unquestionably bound
and sailing to the United States, and when no force was
necessary to bring her in. When such a vessel actually arrives in a port of the United States, the intent is
not only evidenced, but carried into effect, and the, offence is complete.
The arrival, in this case, must be taken as a voluntary coming into port. For as the Rapid was boun I to
the United States previous to the capture. the inter ention of the privateer was immaterial, and cannot be considered as rendering the arrival involuntarv. The
commrncement of the illegal act -was at thu time of the
shipment, and was prior to any forfeitire under belligerent rights. The frl'eiture under the non-intercou.ee
act, therefore, rclates back to the incepti,,n of the offence.
Xhe municipal law, we contend, abrogated the Jus belli,
pro tanto.
It is true that, by the 14th section of the prize act of
26th June, 1812, (ktws . H. vol. 11, p. 238.) provi i,m
is made for the importation of British good, capttred
from the enemy and made good and lawful prize of war;
and it is ad nitred that s'c h goods are forfeited and accrue to. the captors but the question recurs, what is

FEBRUARY TERM 1814.
good and lawful prize of war ? Not, we contend, AmerThE
icai .poperty in an American bottom coming to the RAP1.0,
UniteL States, as in the present case.
PERRI,
MASTEI.

By the I6th section of the same act, the act of 4th of
April, 1812, laying an embargo, and the non. exportation
act of the 14th of the ssme month, are repeakd so far as
they relate to ships and vessels having comMISSWUs or
letters of marque and reprisal. It was equaly necessary that there should be an express repeal of the non-intercourse act.
.By the act of 2d January, 1813, (laws . S. vol. 1i,
p. 83,1.) directing the secretary of the treasury to remit
fines, forfeitures and penalties in certain cases, property
shipped and departing from Great Britain between the.
23d of June and 1bth of-September, and forfkited, under
the non-intercourse acts, to the United States, is to be
restored to the owners: no notice is taken of an) claim
of the captors. The plain inference is, that the le-islature did not suppose that aiy claim existed on the part
of the captors. The same inference may be drawn from
the act of 27th February, 1813, (laws U &. -vol. 11.
p. 388.)
The sovcreign is not to he deprived of his rights by
implicatiop. Where the rights of the sovereign dash
with those of a private individual, the rights of the latter must ield to those of the former. 2 Cranch, 358.
Fisher -. Blight.-Plowd. fo. 253.
Hales v. Pelit.
This last is a leading case on this point.
From the act of 13th July, 1813, (laws U. 8. 'vol. 12,
p, 14.) it is clearly to be inf-irred. that, previoits to the
passage of that act, the rights of the captors w6re considered as being merged in the forfeiture under the nonintercourse acts. The oct of July has merely suspended
the right of the United States.
PITMAN,

coilira,Jor the captors.

We. do not claim adversely to the United States, but
under the United States, as grantees. We were authorized by our commission to capture this vessel, and,
upon capture, it was forfeited to us: condemnation, we

SUPREME COURT U. S.
rH'8
RAPID,
x-ERRY,

contend, is not necessary to give. us title: our title ae.
crued at the moment of capture. The United States
relinquished to us' their right by the 4, §-of the

MASTER. prize act.

The non-intercourse act had reference solely to time
of peace.
The property in question could not be forfeited to the
United States, merely by being put on board ; for a mu'nicipal law can only have a municipal operation ; it
cannot operate extra-territorially it can have no effect
upon goods in a foreign country, whether that country
be hostile or neutral.
'Again by the act of istd'arch,1809, § 8, no persons
-areauthoi'iz°d to seize property for a violation of that
act, except the officers particularly mentioned therein.
Until, therefore, a seizure was made by some person so
authorized, no forf-'iture to the United States could attach : and if. as in the 'present case, a seizure had been
made jure belli, no seizure under the municipal act
could subsequently be made, until the first was deteimined. 1 Rlob. 68, 8.
The Jercurius.
The non-intercourse act was merged in the declaration of war, as it respected British subjects and American eitizens :- this property was therefore forfeited to
the United States jure be!li: they had a right to seize
it jure belli: this right they have granted to us, and oub
title to the property we lave.captured must be triedjure
belli. If this were a municipal seizure, and'if the property were Biitis'hthe British owner would have had a
right to come' into Court and assert his claim; but this
he could nut uowdo, being an alien enemy.
The-2 § of the act of the 13th July, 1813, we consitler,
notwithstanding what has been said by the counsel for
the United States, as acknowledging a previous right
in the captors.
Joss,' on the same side, considered,.
1st. 'The law inlependent of the instructions of the
president to privateers.'

FEBRUARY TERM 18I.
Od. The instructions themselves:

THE
RAPID.

ist. The United States did not mean to relinquish
the broad ground of jus belli, As to, British property
coming to the United States.
The declaration of war ani the prize act, being subsequent to the non-intercourse law, are to bF, considered
as having abrogated or superseded that law.
But if this should not be admitted, we contend that
these acts may exist together without any iiconsistency. There is room enough for the non-iitircourse and
the prize act both. It has been decided.by this Court,
that trading with, the enemi is, per se, a ground of confiscation. There, then, the prize act may operate. But
many hostile cargoes may escape capture, and reach
the United States. Many such cargoes may be imported by neutrals. Here is room for the operation of the
non-intercourse act.
The act of 13th July, 1813, relinquishing to the ciptors the claims of the United States to the captured pro*
perty, is conclusive to show that the United States did
not mean to relinquish the rights of war. That act
describes the property to which thb United States give
up their claim, as property captured on the higli seas,
without limitation.
:2d. As to the president's instructions; These instructions do not-apply to vessels sailing after knowledge of
the declaration of\var.
But we contend that the president, not having .te
power (if war and peace. had no authority: to give such
instructions: be could only control the privateers by
the Power lie had of revoking their commissiois. There
is a difference between his power o;ver these vessels and
his power over the public armed ships of the U. States.
The prizes taken by privateers undeit the.prize act,
are forfeitures, and are to be appropriated differently
from those captured under the non-intercourse act.
To show fhat tke capture, and not tMe condemnation,"

PERiy,
MASTER.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
THE
RAPrID,
PERRY,
MASTER.

is the foundation of the captor's right of property, tht
Court is referred to 1, Wils. !ZIi, Jlorro gth v. Gomyns.
IRVING,

contra.

By the 3d section of the prize act, privateers are
bound to observe all tie laws of the United States. Suipposing, therefore, the hon-intercourse act to h.ive been
in force, they had no riight to seize for a violation of
that act. Besides, the mode of prosecution tinder the
ijon-intercourse act is essentially different from that directed to be pursued under the pirize act. There is
also a difference in the maner of distributing the captured property.
PINK.NEr. The rights of the captors depend not upon the npn-intercourse act. Both that and the prize act
may be in force atthssame time, and operate on the same
thing. The first seizure decides which mole of con'demnation, &c. shall be adopted.
HARPER,

in reply.

There is a distinction between importations made by
citizens of the United States, and those made by foreigners. The latter cannot be affiected by the non-intercourse act, until the goods have arrived wlvthin the
United States. They commit no offence till the
ods
are actually imported. But with regard to citizens of
the United States; the case is different. They are guilty
of '. violation of the act by the mere shipment of prohibited goods in a foreign country, with intent to import the same into the United States. The law, as to
them, has an extra-territ6rial operation ; it binds them
wherever they are. By the ship'nent, therefore, at In,
dian island with inteit to inport into the United States,
the property in the present case, was immeiately forfeited ; and the right of the United States to the'forfeiture, at that moment became complete.
For the opinion of the C nirt on the foregoin question, respectzng the clainm of the United tates, under the mon-intercourse act, see the opinion in the ca 4 of the ,'allm, deli-eeredby STORY, .15th March, 1814, in 'whi,1h the Court
decided infavor of the captors.

