FEBRUARY TERM im.
The invoice is headed

THE
FRANCES,

Glasgow, 8h j'ldy, 1812.

(KENNEDY S

"Messrs. George Stayjcy & Co.

CLAIM,)
BOY ER,

"Receive fromh James Smith."

1M

rTF.
.

A letter from James Smith to George Stayley & Co.
in speaking of the goods, terms then - our goods," and
does not, in any manner, indicate that they are the
goods of Stayley & Co. He concludgs his letter with
saying, ,, As it is to be hoped the trade will now open,
"I shall expect your inscructions saying what goods
are best suited for the market."
The bill of lading is filled up with the name of George
Stayley & Co. ,, on account and risk as per invoice."
There are several letters from George Stayley, in
GlasVow, to his fither; but none of the.n indicate an
opinion that the property of the goods was in George
Stayley & Co:
The sentence, condemning these goods, mnst be affirmed.

THE FRANCES, Boyn, 3AsTER.
(French's claim.)

THIS, like the former cases of the Fralces. was an An

intention,

appeal from the United States' Circuit Court for the clearly provEi, of aCol,

Rhode Island district.

to

vest the

William French, the Appellant, a citizen of the i.rty I this
United States, claimed fourteen boxes of merchandize consignee,
shipped on board the Frances by James Auchincloss, of n ot s,,fficient
Paisley, in Scotland, to A. and J. Auchincloss of INew chang of pro.

York, on their.account and risk. with orders to
the proceeds to the shipper for payment.

remit'per ,,,nr Ithe

The Clai-,,i,,a b. the

SUPREME COURT U. S.
TaH

mant alleged that the goods had been previously ordered by himthrough A. and J, Auchincloss, to be imported
(F , icL's on his account and risk.
IRANCES,
CIAIM,)

BOYEuR,
WASTERm.
consignee,

Further proof was ordered by tie- Court below, t(
consist of the original order for-the inerchandize, all(
all the letters and correspondence relating to it, and o
ol all the proofs of ploperty in the Claimant.

some eVidCce

is giver. of his

ag-.eeinwj.t to Under thir order, the t Claimant produced -a lettoe
take dcm 'n dated Baltimore. 20th F
'roary, 1812, signed by him
his ow ac count: umi self, and addressed to A. .- nd J. Auchincloss, requcst
that time, the ing them to order from their triens in Scotland, go)d!
goods are at
1he risk of the not exceeding in value i,O9OL. sterliung t) be sbipped S,
shippers; and soon as the orders in council should be rvuked.
.'

iftheyareene-,
mies, the

goods, if cap(in the 20th of September. 1812, A. anl J. Achin
turad,
are
Closs wrote h letter to the Claimant, ad-ising hini o
govod prize.

No difference the capture of the Frances with the goods, sail to b(
though the shipped on his account, to their address, and dcsiring
.retheagnthhim to take the necessary steps to have his Fropert5
of a third per- cleared.
son who him
had
directed
to order the To these letters were added affidavits of the Claigoods,

lrnIe"s mant, tending to prove thb property in him, together
J

it appears 'tt

he acl~l:t
did order

them.

with an affidavit of Darius Hodson, that he for'ariled
the above last mentioned letter to the Claimant at Providence, by his request; and that, wihen lie took it tlora
the file, it was a whoe sheet directed to the Claimnt
from New York, by J. Auchincloss, jun. ; but'that, in
order to save postage, he, the deponent, tore off the outside leaf, not thinking, at the time, of its being of any
imnportance.
Upon this proof. the claim was rjected in the Court
below, and the property condemned to the captors.
In this Court the cause was argued blr JoN s for the
Appellant, and DEXTmR for the captors; and on
Tuesday, the 15th of jarch. Absent....MAI srAL, Ch. J.
WASINGTON,

the Court:

J delivered the foNowing opinion of

FEBRUARY TERM 8IM.
Tim
This is the claim of William Fr uch to a part of the
cargo of the Frances, shipped by J.znies Au' hincloss, ofit xCnS.
Paisley, in Great Britain, to A. and J. Auchincloss of (FtrNbU's
New York, on their account and risk. By the ccrrs- clA.m,)
pondence between the consignor and con,igne, s, which ioyrR,
M11s ,xhibited to the CoIurt below, under an order for ."As'3 ER.
further proof, it is somewhat doubtful %;hether these
good %oere to be sold as the property of the consignor,
or of the consignees. In the letter from the formnr to
A. Auchoiiloss, dated the 17th of July, 18if, lie says,
- You mill lose no time to transmit immediately, on the
" receipt of the invoice b) the [aniiy as wcli as by the
- Frances, to the full amount of the invoic(-s; as there,,by, and no other may, is your credit and Joh-.vs to be
• restored here. Also remit, as I have often told you,
"to clear off your old debt; and, for God's sake, let us
have no moire failing in the. family. You wiill observe
that the goods per Fanny and Franecs are pi incipally bought upon a credit of 3, I- and 5 months-this
the consequence of failing."

In another letter of the same date, from tile same to
the same, lie snys, - By this ship, the Frances, I have
"shipped you 1i boxes of different kinds of goods4
"Nhich I beg you mxill lose no time to dispose, as by
*early rewittances von will undoubtedly strengthen
-our credit.'
In another part of this letter lie says,
I beg you w ill lose no time to remit largely, say 3 or
1,O000 plunds. Remember the old cash account mith
the Paisley Banking Company." These letters, so
tIr as they throw light upon this transaction, intimate
ery strongly that A. and J. Auchincloss were to disposk. of lhese goods upon their own account, and as the
purchasers of them. But to produce a change of properly from the shipper to the consignee, it was essentiall) necessary that the goods should have been sent in.
conseqjUence of some contract between the parties. -by
w hich the one agreed to ,iell, ail the other to.buy. Had
the laniuage of these letters beeli more explicit thln it
is to pro ve lhat the intention of the consignor was to
vest the right of property in the consignee, it would not
have been suffici' t to eft'ct such a change, until the
g)ods were received, or some evidence given of the
agreement of the consignee to take them on his own
account. No order from A. and J.Auchinclos6 to the
VOL. VIII.
4

SUPREME COURT U. S.
TruB

consignor of this cargo, authorizing the shipment of it,
was produced or offered to. be produced in the Coui't
(FRENCe's below; and this Court, therefore, is warranted in beCLAIM,) lieving that none such was ever giveh, Indeed, no inDoYER, teret whatever in these goods is asserted to have exMASTER. isted in A. anl J. Auehincloss, hat the same is claimed
by Wia. French, a citizen of the United States, who,
uner the order f,,r further proof, produced, in support
of his claim, a letter from himself to A. and J. Auchincloss, dated the 20th February, 1812, in which he reqmts~s them to order from his friends in Scotland, a
quantity of goods enumerated in the letter not to exceel
1,0001. st! rlig, to be shipped as soon as"the ordors in
council shnull be revoked, and adding that lie shlould
consider the goods at his risk from the time they should
be shipped ; also an invoice of these goods sent by A.
and J. Auchincloss to Win. French, together with a
lett,.r from them, dated the 20th of September. 1812,
adtisifig him of the capture of the Frances with the
goods silipped on his account, and recommending it to
htim to take the nec'essary steps to vindicate his right to
the property. This letter made its appearance in the
Court belWov, Nwith the outer leaf, on which the postmark would have been placed, had there been any. torni
off. To do awvay the suspicion which this circumstance
mightwell excite, the affidavit ofd Darius Hodson uas
produced, inirlh.h lie sfates that lie forwarded this letter to the Claiaaut, at Providence, having first torn off
the outer leaf with a view to lessen the rate of ,postage.
RALNcEs,

The affidavit of the Claimant is added, which is fully

to the purpose of supporting his interest in these goods,
go far as his order to A. and J. Aitchincloss can vest
stwh an interest in him. But passing over t!ose observatiois which might fairly be made upon'the m'itilated
state of the letter from A. and J. Auchincloss to the
Clirant, and the suspicious manner in which that circumstance is attempted to be explained, it may be observ;d that the claim of Win. French is in no respect
stronger than if it had been made by A. and . Auchincloss. Admit that he wrote to A. and J. Auchincloss
the letter of the -20th of February. 181 2, and received
from them that of the 20th of September, the inquiry
still remains to be answered, where is the order for this

FEBRUARY TEIM 1814.
shipment from A. and J. Auchincloss as the agent of TEE
T.AN CBS.
the Claimant?
(FRENCEL'S

The truth is, that in whatever light, this question is cL.AIM,)
viewed, these goods were at the risk of the shippers nO11En,
until they should be received by the consignee; and, MASTER.
consequently, were, by tle capture, raAde good prize,
as property belonging to the enemy.

THE FRANCES,

BOYER, MASTER.

(Gilespie's claim.)

THIS, also, was an appeal trom tme sentence of The commero
of
doinicil at
•
"t
acial
merchant
the Rhode Island Circuit Cort condemning certain
goods captured on board the Fraiwes, by the Yankee the timo or'the
capture of his
privateer.
goods, determines the cha.

These goods were shipped by Colin Gillespie, the r.Lterofthose
to1l
Claimant, who had been naturalized in the United goods,
or neutm].
Alexanand
Bryce
Archibgid
to
consigned
and
States,
fler Muirhead, for sale and remittance to the shipper
at Glasgow.
To ascertain the national character of the Claimant
further proof was ordered by the Court beiow, calling
upon l:in to show hov. long, after his naturalization., lie
resided in the United States, before lie went to Great
Britain ; how long he had since resided in the United
States, at any time or times; how long iiGreat Britain ;
what was the nature of his btrsin'ss in tile latter country;
and in whiom the property vested at the timeit was shipped.
Upon the production of this further proof, it appeared
that the property was vested in the Claimant at the time
of its being shipped ; that he was a native (f Great Britain ; that he emigrated to the United States in 1793 ;
was naturalized in 1798 ; having, in the interim, returned to his native country on mercantile business in
1.791 anti 1796. and re-visited the United States in 174gr
And 1797 that he again returned to his native country
in1799, was there married and re-visited the United

