FEBRUARY TEIM 1814.
shipment from A. and J. Auchincloss as the agent of TEE
T.AN CBS.
the Claimant?
(FRENCEL'S

The truth is, that in whatever light, this question is cL.AIM,)
viewed, these goods were at the risk of the shippers nO11En,
until they should be received by the consignee; and, MASTER.
consequently, were, by tle capture, raAde good prize,
as property belonging to the enemy.

THE FRANCES,

BOYER, MASTER.

(Gilespie's claim.)

THIS, also, was an appeal trom tme sentence of The commero
of
doinicil at
•
"t
acial
merchant
the Rhode Island Circuit Cort condemning certain
goods captured on board the Fraiwes, by the Yankee the timo or'the
capture of his
privateer.
goods, determines the cha.

These goods were shipped by Colin Gillespie, the r.Lterofthose
to1l
Claimant, who had been naturalized in the United goods,
or neutm].
Alexanand
Bryce
Archibgid
to
consigned
and
States,
fler Muirhead, for sale and remittance to the shipper
at Glasgow.
To ascertain the national character of the Claimant
further proof was ordered by the Court beiow, calling
upon l:in to show hov. long, after his naturalization., lie
resided in the United States, before lie went to Great
Britain ; how long he had since resided in the United
States, at any time or times; how long iiGreat Britain ;
what was the nature of his btrsin'ss in tile latter country;
and in whiom the property vested at the timeit was shipped.
Upon the production of this further proof, it appeared
that the property was vested in the Claimant at the time
of its being shipped ; that he was a native (f Great Britain ; that he emigrated to the United States in 1793 ;
was naturalized in 1798 ; having, in the interim, returned to his native country on mercantile business in
1.791 anti 1796. and re-visited the United States in 174gr
And 1797 that he again returned to his native country
in1799, was there married and re-visited the United

SUPREME COURT U. S.
States with his wife, in the same year; that he continuTrHE
ri cxcEs, ed to reside in New York- until June, 1802. when he
(oGL.ns- once more rettu ned to, Greaf Britain, and resided there
until November, 1805, when he came to the United
vIFs
CLAIM.) States, (Mrs. Gillespie having died in Scotland) fbrmed
eovnmi, a partnewship with John Gralam, of New York, and reMASTER.

ti'ned to Glasgow in the same year, where lie carried

on the bu'iuess of the partnership under the firm of
Colin Gillespie & Co.; that he remained there until
the partnership was dissolved, and until the 2d of July,
1813 ; on which day he left the eneiny's country, and
arrived in the United States with his family. in October, 1815 ; that le kept house at Glasgow, and built a
ware-house there, which lie still owns. and kept his
counting house therein. He formed a deterininalion to
return to the Unitel States, as lie deposes, on being
informed of the declaration of war by the United States
against Great Britain, wiich took place on the 18th of
June, 181s. anl was known in England about the 20th
of July following, but was prevented, by his engagements and commercial concerns, from carrying that
intention into effect ,:ntil the period above mentioned,
still leaving some of his affairs unarranged.
Upon this evidence, the property was condemned in
the Circuit Court ; and an appeal was taken. by ie
Claimant, to this Court, where the cause was argued
by JoNEs. HtrERu, and DuXTEr, for the Claimant;
and rINKNEY for the captors.
Jox.Es, ffr the Claimant.

The goods in question were purchased early in .3uly,
181. they wor,: shipped on the ith of that r:rnuth. at
which time the declaratifan of war was not known in
England. It does not .pp-ar that th' Claimant shipped
any other goods than thosv in (question. Iii lcs than
a y 'ar after he had received information of the war, lie
returned to the United States with his family, thereby
g'ving unequivocal evidenre of the quo animo of his residence in Great Britain. In such a case, even the property of a neutral would be protected; afortiori, ought
the property of one of our own citizens to receive protection. -Cases of this kind are analogous to cases of
confiscation. If there be any particular period at which

FEBRUARY TERM 18A.
we can consider this property as assuming a hostile Tn
character, it must be that, at which it would have lbeen FRANCES,
confiscable by the en.'iny, supposittg the party to con- (GI. Stinue an Atnericdii citizen. Had that period arrived ? Pim's
Were the circumitances such as would have justified CLAIM,,)
Vreat Britain -itconfiscating this property? If not, BoXErt,
s'urely the Uititd States ought notto condemn it. Vat- MASTER.
tel, B. 3, see. 63.
This ease may be considered 'n another point of view,
viz : whether the case of a naturalized citizen returning to his native country, and carrying on trade. as in
present case, is distinguishable in its consequences,
tit.
in the event of war, from that of a native citizen going
to a foreign country and engaging in trade. We coutend that it is not. One authority, and one only, seems
to favor tle distinction ; and that is the case of La Virginia. 5 Rob. 99. But in that case. it does not appear
that the Am*irican character of Mr. Lapierre was acquired by naturalization. It might and very probably
did depend on donicil alone. We contend that a person
naturalized in this country, is as much a citizen of the
Uinited States, to all the intents, and purposes of th6
preseut case, as a native. The naturalization law of
the United Stateg requires of the applicant for the privileges of naturalization, unqualified abjuration of allegianc,, to his folrmer sovereign. The law of England
on the subject goes to an equal extent. Naturalized
and native subjects are looked upon as the same, to all
legal purposes. 4 Cranch, 321. Dawson'sLessee v.
Godfrey.
A denizen may be made such for life or in tail; "bit
one cannot be naturalized either with limitatiofi, for
life or in tail, or upon condition; for that is against flib
absolutenesq, purity and indebility of natufal Alegiance." Co. Lit. 129, (a.) 2 Domat, 376.

If, according to the doctrine of perpetual allegiance,
on the return of a naturalized citizen to Iis native
country, his former duties return, and his duties to his
adopted country still continue, under what contradictory obligations would he be placed. This was lord Hale's
doctrine, but it is now done away. Foster's Crown Law,
185, sec. 1.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
THE
XMANCES,

It has been decided in England, in the case of Jfarryat
V. Wilion, I Bos. and Pud. 430, that a natural born sub-

(GXLLu-:S- jVCt of that country admitted a citizen of the United
riEs States of America, either before or after the declaration
CLAIM,) of American indvp..ndence, may be considered as a subBOYER, ject of the United States, so as to, entitle him to trade
MASTE.. to the East Indies under the 13th article of the treaty of
19th November, i79-1."
HARnPER, same side,
Asked whether the Court, in the case of the Rapid,
had decided the question ai to the difference b(eteen
the British acts concerning letters of marque, prizes
and prize goods, which authorize the, capture of the
property of inhabitaits in hostile countries (and on
which the British admiralty decisions are founded.) and
the act of congress declaring war, which only gives a
right to capture the property of British subjects.
Jonnsoi, J. said the Court had fully considered that
point and decided it in the case of the Rapid.
PINKNEY, for

the captors.

We contend that the property even of a nathre American citizen domiriled in an enemy country at tle time
of the capture of such property, is liable to condemnation
as prize of war; and, a fortiori the property of a naturakzed American citizen, a native of the enemy country, tnder like circumstances ; which isthe case before
the Court, and which will be first considered.
It has been contended on the other side, that a person naturalized in the, United States is as much a citizen of this country as a native, and that he continues to
be so, though he return to his native country and there
engage in trade. It has been argued that, in order to
become an American citizen, he must abjure his allegiance to his former government, that, consequently,
though he should return to his native countiy, lie can
no longer be considered as under the protection of that
government: that his new allegiance to the United
States continues, and that our'government is bound to
protect him: that he is therefore to be considered in the

EBRUARY TERM i8s4same light as a native'citizen, and that his property is
equally to be plotected in case of war.
That a person so abjuring his native allegiance cannot claim protection from his former government, while
he cbntinues in the country of his adoption, is admitted ;
but we contend that if lie voluntarily, returns within the
sphere of his original allegiance, lie is as much a subject ot his former government as if he haj never emigrated ; that the reciprocal duties of allegiance and
protection, on the respective parts of the subject and
the sovereign, are revived: lie is no longer a citizen
of the United States. The two allegiances are ificoinpatible, we admit; the naturalization law of the United
States clearly goes upon this idea; but-in case of the
party's return to his native country, it is the old allegiance which must prevail, and not the new, as is contended by the Claimant. By his return, lie has, in fact,
consented to resume his former alle!giance: for lie must
be presumed to have known the laws of his country, and
that those laws would impose upon him his ol dutivs in
case of his return. He is now, as sir W. Scott would
call him. a redintgqrated subject of his native country,
and is liable to all his fl'omer obligations. He is now
bound actively to support the government to which lie
has returned. In cas.' of war, lie may be compelled to
take up arms against the country he has a lopted ; to
pay taxes for the support of the war. &c. and this, not
by arbitrary power, but of right. Tiehiese obligations,
it will be recollected, we -ontend are the eI'tct of a
-voluntary!return. We do not mean to say that if a naturalized citizen should enter the army of the United
St atos and be captured by the nation to which lie lormerly belonged, during a war between the two countries,
lie would, on being carried to his native country as a
prisoner, incur those obligations. Bit in the case now
before the Court, the return of Gillespie, the Claimant,
to England, was entirely voluntary. Without regardl.
therefore, to the question of domicil, Gilhopie was, according to the doctrine for which we have been contending, politically an enemy of the United States, at the
time of the capture of the Frances. If lie was not an
enemy, I should be glad to know who can be considered ai such. If he is not hostis, who has every hostile
duty upon him, I am at a loss to know who is.

THE
FRANCESy
(GILLES-

pig's
CLAIM,)
nOTER,
MASTF.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
THE
If the war had been sudden, humanity might plead in
rApNxces, behalf ot the Claimant, But in this case, there was no
(GILLUS- surprize.
War had been threatening for a long time
No indulgence.
PIe's previous to its, actual declaration.
CLAIM,) therefore, on this ground, can be claimed.
BOYER,
MASTER.

Thk counsel for the Claimanf has cited lord Coke in
support of his doctrine of naturalization, but does not
seem to have considered that, according to that author,
a British subject can never become a citizen of any
other'. country.
The case of'iarfryatv-. filson has al.5obeencited. That
case is perhaps entitled' to some consideration but
even there, the Court had. at first, decided against Collet. and it was only upon the r, quest of the American
minister (Mr. King) that they consented to re-consider
the c ase, when they finally decided in his favor.
2. If Gillespie was politically an enemy, at the time
of the capture, the doctrine or commercial domicil is
wholly immaterial in the preseht case. But as the Court
may not view the sulject in the same light as we do,
a few remarks on the latter point may not be unnecessary.'
We lay it down then, as an indisputed position, that
the character of captured goods is decided by the commercial domicil of te'owner at the time of capture.
And we contend that Gillespie had a commercial domicil in Great Britain,. at the time of the capture of the
goods in question. It does not appear that lie had, in
any manner, put himself in motion-in iti,,re, to return before the capture. All the evidence showing his
intention to return, arose after that event. A hostile
character, therefore, attached to the property, if not to
the owner.
This is not a case of withdrawing funds : it is a case
of trade originating before the war, and continued after
the war. Besides, the rule of withdrawal appliei only
to cases where the domicil of the party is not in the
enemy country, though his trade is carried on and his
property situated there. See Coopinan's case, cited in
the Vigilantla, I Bob. 12, 11. Escot's case, cited in the

FEBRUARY TERM 1814.
LS. p, I Rob. 170, 201.
161, i0i'.

The .?Jadonnadele Gcade, 4 Rob.

TrE
FRANCES,

(GILLES-"
It Jai been said, that at the time of the sL'ipment of PIE's
thre goods iii questim, the %%ar"ias nit known in En- CLAIM,)
gland, and that it wotilri be a case of great hlardship, noYmE;
umller such cr'cunstan-es, to subject this Iroper y to MASTER.
con:lemnalion. But want of notice, in cases like this,
is arn cXCUSe not hklom ri to tihe law (W nati. ns. Ste
W/hitehill',N cas, (ref rr,,d to, in the caise of' te Hoop, j
Bob. 170, "Z01)-'Whitehih was a British subj- t-had
been at St. Eiwtatins or11) two daN s and had no knowledge of tire xvar-yt t his property was condcnmed."
As to the fact. that public treaties frequently allow
a parti(tilar time for the respective s ;jects of both parties to w~ithdra, in case of %Aar, it nray be observed,
that this is onl. providing ag,:-inst the exeri ise of a right
,%hich tihe conriracting; jiarties w' md oth, r\ is; have had.
Biut dwse mutual cincessions do ro't alter the nature or
effect of tire domicil.
At all events, Gilleqie ouht to have put hims-lf in
motiom to refiPtw to the United States, immcdiately upon
km.,-ledge oflthe war. This he does not appear to have
dme : and. acccouding to sir If. ,S'cotl. nuinrg but the
actual i;,rce of tile gm\, rument is a sufficient excuse for
the neglect. But no such txcuse has been offer ed.
invilher of the grounds. therefore, which have been
iak.n iin this argUlneht, ve ceiceive that tire property il
rontrovvrsy must be condemned.
HAUPL1,

iii

reply.

It is fithnature ,fthe trade, n,t tle place ofresidencei
which determines the hostile or neutral character of the
trader.
We inist still insist, that a naturalized citizen of the
Tnitcd Ntat.s is a citizen to, every intent, ihe tight to
be presidihnt of tl,.
L nited States only exceptvd, %\lich
exception but proves the gr nrif rule.
It is said, on the I,rt or the captors, that a natu.
VOL. VII.
47

SUPREME COURT U. S.
yru
7RANCES,
(GILLES,
pIE's

ralized American citizen ceases to be sucn, wnen ur,
returns to his native country. Suppose, then, while
absent in !iis native country, a descent should be cast
upon him in tliis-would lie be considered by our Courts
CLAVI,) as an alien, so as to deprive him of the estate so cast
JOYR, upon him 2 Again, suppose, in case of war between the
MASTER. two countries, he should enlist hinmself under the banners of our enemy, and be found in arms against us,
should we not consider him as a traitor, and treat him
accordingly ? If lie choses to take such double responsibilities up.in himself, it is his business to reconcile
them: we can only consider him as an American citizen.
We might admit, perhaps, that by a return to his native country in time of war, lie must he considered as
having abandoned his rights as a citizen of the United
States, in relation to trade ; still, however, he could
not throw off his duties But Gillcspie returned in
time of peace. He ther. fore (lid not assume new duties
incompatible with those lie owed to this country. He
assumed only that tenporary allegiance to the governmeat of Great Britain, which every other strauger in
that country owed. Upon the breaking out of the war,
perhaps new duties might arise mncoisistent with hi
duties as an Ameri,'an citizen. Yet, in that case, a reasonable time ought to be allowed him to remove ; and
if lie made ev:'ry reasonable exertion to return to the
Unit,-d States, and ,specially if he did actually return
in less than a yea, after befnfi
inf,,rmed of the existence
of th war, which is the' fact, he nt,;t be considered as
having retained his American character.
'Fhe domicil of the owner at the time of capture, is
not th, criterion %ihereby to detertiine the character of
the p:opeity captured, in all cases. If it be so generally. this cas ought to le an exception. Gillespie NNas
lawfully ir,
Elglaml at the breaking out of the war:
lie cannot be prcsauned to have ktowni that war would
take place ;- it is impossibIe that he should have known
it; s,,,'h
a presumption is tin'eas~mable. Whiehivs
cams has been cited on the otuer side ; but the counsel
for the captors is mistaken as to the facts of that case.
Whitehili knew of the war, and tht St. Euslat-us was
I,stil -,at the time he went there ; whih essvntially
distinguishes it from thecase now before the Court.

FEBRUARY TERM 1814.
PiNxwY,referred to the history of the times, to Show
TR
that Whitehilt had no knowledge of the war when he FitcEs.,

went to St. Eustatius.

(G!LLESPIE's

HARPER.

If Whitehill did not know that war had CLAi.,)

actually been declared, he knew that measures had been BOYER,
taken whi "hmay be considered as equivalent to a de- MA-,TER.
claration. The capture took place in February. He
knew that letters of inarque had been issued in December preceding, and that a long irritation had existed
between the two 'governments. He knew, also, that
the trade in which lie was engaged, was a trade frowned
upon by his own government. In the present case, the
circumstances were entirely different. 5 Rob. 220, Z17.

Saturday, Xlarck i2th. Jtsent....LIvINGSTOI, 3.
MARSHALL,

Ch. J. delivered the opinion of the Court

as follows:

Colin Gdl'ospie, a naturalized American citizen residing in Glasgow, claim"d sundry goods, shipped on
his own account, as his property. This claim depends
entirely on his national character, and is decided in the
case of the M'nus.
The sentence of the Circuit Court, condemning the
property of the Claimant, is affirmed.

VOWLES

AND OTHEMS "v.CRAIG AND OTHERS.

lbsent... MARSHALL, C. J.

THIS ease, as stated by

opinion of the Court was

Is

ToD,

follows:

I8i4,
March 14th,

. in delivering the Ifi person,

oanedob-

vey upon a mi,
t'and denrP
UtaRyramt
the war
of •,
side
This suit was instituted on the chancery
.
_
Circuit Court -if th Unit'd States ror th- Kentacky dis- the commontrict, by the Complainants, now Appellants as the heirs wealth of Vir

