io

SUPREME COURT U. S.

unavoidable. No such manifest repugnance appears to
the court. The provisions may well stand together and
indeed serve as mutual aids.

HARORD

T.
U.STATES.

In fact the very point now presented was decided by
this court in the case of Locke, claimant, v. the United
States, at February term 1813.
The judgment of the Circuit Courtis affirmed with costs.

ARMITZ BROWN v. THE UNITED STATES.

British pro,

THIS was an appeal from the sentence of the Circuit

at the commencement of
'hostilities with
.Greht Britain,
'cannot be con-

D.

Perty found in Court of Massachusetts, which condemned 550 tons of
States, onland,,pine timber, claimed by Armitz Brown, the Appellant.

dnnnebasenn-

DAVISfOr te

.appel!ant.

This is an appeal from the Circuit Court of Massa-

6ny'sproperty, cliusetts, in which Court, the property consisting of
withoutlieabout 550 tons of pine timber, twelve thousand staves,
gislatiwe aut,
authorising
its
and eighteen tons of lathwood, were condemned. The
c c
confis eati o.
libel states, that this car ;o
The
act of the
'lIm
wa,
,egslaturede.
Emulous,at Savannah, April
April

was loaded on board the

9dh,
tho11qt2; that the cargo
larh- war, is belonged to British subjects; that the ship departed 1br
$1"imehaatlymouth, in Englnnd April 18th, in the same year, and

&Iintoasalt
4ater creek
t !.-re thle tide

put into New Bedtbrd for repairs ; and that the cargo
was there unladen, ant] remained there until seized by

on the mad at
low water, and
prevented

ship never departed for Plymouth, never put into Now
Bedfordforrepairs. The facts are these:

ebbstanduows, Delano, as well on his own behalf, as on behalf of the
kavin.tthe
United States. As to some of the allegations in the liendIs
f the
timber resting bel, there is no evidence whatever
t support them ; the

i tons floatin.g

away at high

water by
boors, isto be
eonsidered

ynded.

'rhe property in question was the cargo of the Ameri-

Cai1 ship Emulous, and was sei7ed as enemy's property,
as ab'mt the 5th of April, A. ). 1813, nearly a year after

the same had been dischar. ed from the ship

From the

transcript in the case, it appears that the Emulous was
owned by John Delano and others, citizens of the Uoited
States; that, in February, 1819.2 the owners, by their

FEBRUARY TERM 1814.
agent, chartered the ship to Elijah Brown, as agent for EnowN
Christopher Ide, Brothers and Co. and James Brown,
V.
British merchants; that, by the charter party, the ship U.STATES..
was to proceed from Charlestonf S. C. where she then
laj, to Savannah, and there take on board a'cargo of
lumber, at a certain freight stipulated in the charter
party, and proceed with the same to Plymouth, in England, to unload there, or at any other of his Britannic
majesty's dock-yards in England, The ship proceeded
to Savannah, took on board the cargo mentioned in the
libel, and was there stopped by the embargo of the 4tlx
of April, 1812. On t e 25th of the same month of
April, it was agreed between the master of the ship
and the agent of the shippers, that the ship should proceed to New Bedford, where she wa- owned, with the
cargo, and remain there, without prejudice to the charter
party; which agreement is endorsed upon the back of
the charter party. The ship accordingly proceeded to
New Bedford. and remained there until the latter part
of May following, when the cargo was finally unladed
and discharged from the ship. The staves and lathwood were landed and put on a wharf. The timber was
put into a salt water creek, which is not navigable, but
Nvlhere the tide ebbs and flows, and where the timber re,
mained for safe keeping until the time of the seizure.
The timber was secured in this creek by booms extended
across the entrance thereof, and fastened by stakes driven into the flats. On the 7th of November, 1812, the
property was sold to the claimant by E. Brown, the
agent. ill )ursuance of the authority which he had for
that purpose as agent of the shippers, and in pursuaneI
of the advice of Delano, -%ho afterwards seized it in the
manner and for the purposes stated in the libel. This
sale, the Appellant contends was made bona fide for a
valuable consideration, which has since been paid, and
after notice thereof given to Delano, in whose possession the property then was. The seizure was not made
until five months after the property hid been sold to the
preseit claimant, and nearly twelve months after it was
discharged from the ship. The claimant, it is admitted,
is a citizen of the United States. E. Brown, the agent,
by whom the property was sold, is a citizen of the United States, and James Brown, one of the owners of the
cargo, is also a citizen of the United States, but resides in
London and carries on trade and commerce in that city.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
BROUN
T.
vIgTA.TES.

Upon these facts, the principal poiit which.will be
contended for by the counsel for the claimants is, that
this propertiy was lawfully acquired, before.the declaration
of war by tie United States against Great Britdin; and
that, it being.found here at the time of the breaking out of
the war, under thefaith of the government, it is not, by the
ihodern law oJ nations, nor by any law of the United
States, liable to confiscation.
This question ought not to be decided upon the "igorous principles and the ancient liractice of the law of nations ; but according to the mitigated law of war, sanetioned by modern usage in civilized nations: .For when
the government of the United States'was'organized and
finally establishled, it was not only its true policy, but
its duty, ",to receive the law of nations in its modern
state of purity and refinement." PerJude Wilson in the
case of Ware -v. Hyltop, s !all. 298i. It is contended by
the counsel for tfie claimant in this case, that the principie and the usage adopted and sanctioned by the modern
law of nations, is this, ,"that enemy's property found in
Ihis country at the breaking out of a war,.is not liable
to confiscatidn." A different practice, said to have prevailed in Great Britain with regard to property in this
situation, found afloat in their porjs and harbors, will
be hereafter considered.
The rule of the law of nations.applicable to this case,
,is
found in Vattel, p. 477. His words are, "6The sovereigo declaring war, can neither detain the persons
.,northe property of those subjects of the enemy who'are
within
W
his dominions at the time of the declaration.
,Thpy came into his country under the publicfaith. By
"permitting them to enter and reside in his territories,
"he tacitly prdmised them full liberty and security for
"their return. He is therefore bound to allow them a
"reasonable time for withdrawing with their effects ;
,,andif.
they stay beyond the time prescribed, lie has a
,rilht t6 treat them as enemies, though as enemies in"armed.
But if they are detaified by a.e.insurmounta,ble impediment, a. by sic!ness, he must necessarily
"and for the same reason grant them a sufficient extension of the term." In order to shew the humane and
liberal spirit with which the above rule is adopted by so-

FEBRUARY TERM t8ii.

1 113

vereigns in moderit times, the same author adds, ",At BnRW
.
-rresent, go far from being wnting in this duty, sove" reigns carry their attention to humanity stillftrther;U.STATES.
,so that foreigners who are subjects of the state against ",which war is declared, are' frequently allowed full time
" for the settlement of their affairs."
Are not these just and equitable rules of the modern
law of nations of authority in the Judicial Courts of the
United States ? Upon what principle or policy, are they
to be rejected, and those of an age dark, and "even barbarous in comparison with the present, adopted in their
stead ? Does it comport with the interest and character
of this government, to reject principles and usages, calculated to ameliorate and mitigate the state of war and
to promote the interest of commerce. which it appears
have been clhearfuy adopted by all the monarchies of Europe ? The contract which was entered into by the
agents of Vie parties in this case, was made upon the
presumption that, in cast: ,f war, the property would be
safe. This presumption arose from the unifoi'm practice, in similar cases, in all countries upon -which th.
law of nations is binding.
It has been suggested that this rule in rattel is applicable only to such persons as may happen to be in the
country at the time of the declaration of war. Such,
indeed, is the letter of the rule: But when there is
tho same reason, there is the same law ; and no good
reas'ui ran be assigned why the property of an absent
owner should not be protected, as well As that of those
who may happen to be resident in the cduntrv declaring
war. In addition to thig, it may be observed, that the
owners of this property were, in law, present during the
whole negotiation relative to this cargo, by their agent,
E. Brown, by whom it was purchased, and who had the
whole care and charge of it, at the time that war was
declared.
If the oorrectness. or authority of Tatel should be
questioned. he Will be found to be supported by other
writers of high character.
In Ciitfy's Law ?f Nations, p. 67, it is thtt wr itft:
u In strict justice, the right of seizure can vte effect
i ,
15
p
VOL. IIT

SUPREME COURT U. S.
Nw,,N
E',.
U.STATES.

"only on those possessions of the belligerent, which
"have come to the hands of his adversary after the decla"rfatio qfwar" And again, in p. 80, "6Such aqp'ears
",to be. at present, the law and practice of civiliied na-tions, with respect to hostile property found 'within
',their dominions at the breakiiq out of 'war." These
opinins are not only fairly collected ifrom modern
writers upon the law of nations, but arc eLtitled to particular respect as coming from a man of high character
for his professional talents, and legal science ; and who
has (lone and written more to improve and reduce to system the comm,,n law of England. than any other writer
upon that subject for the last thirty years.
The principles and practice of the modern law ot nations here advocated, will also be found conformable to
the conihmon law. In .Mfa-na harta, that venerable foundation of English law and liberty, it is provided, that
merchant stran.gers in the realm of England at the beginning of a war, shall be protected frbm harm in body
and ;oods, until it shall be made known to the high authorities of the nation, how British merchants should be
treated in the enemy~s country, and they were to be
dealt with according to such treatment. Aragna Charta,
chap. 30. Thes- provisions are commented upon, and
emphatically eulogised by .11ontesquieu, 2d vol. p. 12.
Of similar character were the provisions of an ancient English statute, passed 27 Erlwal. 3,Stat. 2, chap.
17, iii which it is enacted, ,,that in case of war, mer6,chants shall not be sent suddenly out of the kingdom,
but may go out of the kingdom freely, with their
b,
"6goods, within forty days, and shall not be in any thing
"chindered or disturbed in their passage, or to make pro,fit of their merchandize ifthey wish to sell them; or, i"
6. in default of wind or ship, or any other adverse cause,
,,they cannotgo, they shall have other forty days, withiu
,,which time they shall pass. with their merchandize, or
" sell the same as before."
It is respectfully contended, that no act or measure of
the American government has ever indicated a disposition adverse to those humane and liberal provisions and
usages of the common law. an] of the law of nations.
On the contrary, so far as the disposition and policy of

FEBRUARY TERM i8m.
the government may be discerned by implication, it has BRowN
manifested its entire acquiescence in, and its readiness
T.
to adopt them upon all proper occasions. The spirit U.STATES.
and disposition of the governmeht upon this subject, is
apparent from the provisions in (I believe it may be said)
every treaty which has been entered intosince the establishment of the go- ernment. Articles for the protection and removal of the property of enemies found in
this country at the breaking out uf a war, are found
in our treaties with France, Spain, Holland, Sweden,
Prussia, Morocco, England and .Jlgicrs. It will not be
contended, that the provisions of these treaties, especially
that with England, can be binding, when the treaties
themselves are not in force; but the itniform practice of
those governments, in.agreeing to these provisions, is
evidence of the highest nature, that the government of
the United States have adopted, and mean to adhere to
the modern law of nations in this rept ct ; that it approves theliberality of the modern usages, and rejects,
and, I hope I may add, abhors the rigorous rules and
contracted principles of the ancient jurists; that the
spirit of the government, and the character of its policy,
is to cherish and carry. into practice every principle
and every custom and usage, which is found favorable
to commerce, and which will mitigate the evils incident
to a state of war.
In the proceedings and meauures of the government
since the "war, there can be found no expression of its
will, that property in the situation of this cargo, should
be confiscated or claimed for the use of the government--on the contrary, there aie indications of another and more benign complexion. By the act of July
Gth, 1812, sect. 6, the president was authorized, within
six months from the date of the act, "-to give passpoi ts
f,for the safe transportation of any ship or property
belonging to BritiSh subjects, tben within the limits
" of the United States."
Nothihig, therefore, can be
more clear, than that it was not the wish or intention
of go-'ernment, to claim or confiscate property, belonging to the enemy, then in the United States. If such
had been its policy, instead of the liberal provisions of
this statute, provision would have been 'made in this
statute, or in the act declaring war, not only expressive

SUPREME COURT U. S.
.OROWN

v.
I.STA JES.

of the public will upon this subject, but expressly der
daring British property then within the United States

liable to conliscatio,.
By the provisions of this statute, it is apparent that
if this property had been on board a British ship, or if
a Britisi! ship had been found in which to transport it,
it would have come directly within the authority of the
president, as to its safe transportation. Surely, then,
it could never have been the intention of Congress to
have it confiscated upon the ground that it had weh
I
lawfully on board an American ship, in the regular
course of trade, was there arrested by the embargo,
aud then, for the convenience of all parties, discharged
from the ship, aid placed in a proper situation for
safe keeping, to abide the events of the embargo and
the war.
The Court will also notice, that, previous to the expiration of the six months allowed by the act of congress, above quoted. for the exportation of British property, this cargo had been sold with the knowledge and
approbation of the Libellant. This tkansfer, having
been made bodt _fide, conferred other and new rights upo0n a third party, viz . the present Claimant. The
rinciple quoted and relied upon, that that transfer
was void upon the ground that it was made by an alien
enemy in-time of war, was probably never contemplated or known by theparties to the contract; and this
may furnish a satisfactory, though perhaps not strictly
a legal reason, why this property was not exported under the president's passport. At any rate, if the Court
should be satisfied that this property is not liable to
confiscation, either by the law of natious or by any ac
of congress, they will not trouble themselves about the
effect of the transfer, but leave the parties interested to
settle that matter among themselves.
11-fore the Court will condemn this property, the 1
wi]l search for some proof of a decided intention, on the
part of the government, that such property should be
confiscated. It appears that all the acts of congress,
so, far as they can be interpreted with reference to this
question, manifest a conrtrary spirit. The act -declar-

FEBRUARY TERM tIM.
in" war, speaks no language adverse to the claim of nnowN
th Appellant. Theprize act of the 26th of June, i812,
T,.
does not even glance at property in this situation. Will U.ST.TES.
the Court assume the power, by implication, to condemn
the property; and this, too, against the most explicit
declarations of the public will, Go far as they can be
collected from measures of an analogous nature? Why
is this case singled out? 'A by do not the district attornies
enter the warehouses in the numerous sea-ports, and
hunt for booty of this description ? Such a proceeding
would be as hgal and as liberal as the present, though
probabl3 attended itb serious mischif to the country,
if retaliatory proceedings and measures should be adopted by the enemy ; for it is a well knoNun fact, that
the amount of American property in Enghad itt the
commenctment of the war, was immensely greater than
that of English jroperty in America, at the same
period.
It was stated, in the argument below, that the question relative to the confiscation of debts,' or choses in
action, is illustrative of that which relates to the confiscation of goods. The modern usage and law df nations,
aid of our own country, relative to the confiscation of
debts, are equally favorable to the Claimant in this
case.
In the first place, it is distinctly denied, that there exists any power to confiscate the private debts of the enemy, excepting by a positive act of Congress. What
figure would the attorney of the United Statfs make,
with a libel in the judicial Courts, praying fir a confiscation of a private debt? The exclusive right of this
kind of confiscation, and even of goods, is in the legislature-per Chase, Justice, in the case of Ware v. Hylton, 3, Dall. 281. The question which has been discussed by the writers upon the law of nations, is, whether it be lawful for the sovereign thus to confiscate.
And although it is admitted that he may do it, yet, ",.in
"regard to the safety.of commerce, alt the sovereigns
"of Europe have departed from this rigor; and as this
"tcustom has been generally received, lie who would act
,, contrary to it, would injure the public faith ; for
9strangers trusted his subjects upon the presumption
i that the generalcustom, would prevail." Vattel, lib. 3.

SUPREME COURT U.
BRowN

ch. 5, sect.

.

$7. The laws- and customs of the United

T.

States ought to be so expounded as to conform to the

u.STA'T.ES.

modern law of nations, whiclh is adverse to the confiscating of debts. Indeed the confiscation of debts has become disrepntable; and it has beenfeelingly observed by
a late learned judge of this Court, that "6not a single
"confiscation of this kind stained the code oJ any Ektro"pean power engaged in the war Nvhich our revolution
,producd"P-3, Dal. 281.
It will be admitted that the question relative to the
-onfiscation of debts, or choses in action, is illustraiive
of the question relative to the confiscation of the private
property of an enemy, found here under the faith of
government at the breaking out of the war. Indeed
the law and practice is, and ought to be, the same in
both cases; and until a law of congress shall be produced, confiscating property of this description, the judicial Courts will not only proceed to do it with great
reluctance, but will never assvme an authority of that
kind, unless furnished with it by a legislative act, any
niore than in the confiscation of a private debt. In addition to all this, it seems to be now perfectly settled by
the modern law and practice of nations, that debts are
never to be confiscated 5 that it has become a disgraceful act in any government that does it; that tl!ese debts
are stspended, and the right to recover them necessarily
taken away by the war; but that upon the return of
peace, the debts are revived, and the right to recover
them perfectly restored.
The condemnation of this property is demanded upon
the ground that the embargo of the 4Ith of April, 1812,
arrested and detained it until the act of congress took
place declaring war; and that that act had a retroactive
effect, and justifies the condemnation of this property.
But to this it is answered: the embargo of the 4th of
April was not a hostile, but a civil embargo; and no
such construction was ever given to an embargo, not of
a hostile character., That this embargo was not of this
character is most manifest from this, that express provision was made for the departure of any foreign ships
or vessels, either in ballast or with the goods, wares
and inerchandize, on board of such foreign ship or vessel when notified of the act. It was. therefore,, the

FEBRUARY TERM

Ii.

being laden on board a vessel of the United States that iniowi
-v.
prevented the departure of this property. If it had
been on board a foreign, even a British, ship, it would .q'rATrs.
not have been 'detained. That it was actually laden
on board, at the time of tihe notice of the embargo,
manifestly appears from the record. This, it is conceived, is a sufficient answer to the claim of the government to this property, upon the ground that it was
stopped by the embargo, and liable to confiscation by
the retroactive operation of the act of congress declaring war. The authorities in support of th principles here contended for, respecting the difference between hostile and civil embargoes,. must be familiar
to the Court, and need pot be cited.
But the practice of the British go.yernment is relied
upon as a rule by which the Court are to be governed
in the present case. It is admitted that, the English
Courts of admiralty have condemned 'vessels detained in
port by an embatgo. and found there at the breakinout of hostilities: but it is explicitly denied that they
have eVer condemned property found on land, in that
situation. 1 Rob. 228.
If, however, the English Courts of admiralty hav,
done wrong, and proceeded against the modern law of
nations in these cases, thiq honorable Court will not.
for that reison, 'a!lopt so unjuist a practice. The condemnnation of property, arrested in the ports of Great
Britain by an embargo, to which a hostile character is
afterwards given by a subsequent declaration of war,
appears to be a departure from the modern usages of
nations, and cannot be jiustifiedr by or reconciled with
the spirit of those usages. But as they have never condemned property in this situation, except such as has
been found not only afloat, but in vessels detained i
their ports by an embargo, their decisions can form, no
precedent in this case; for the property which is the
subject of. this prosecution, was either 6n lafid, or in
such a Situation as that it could not be the subject u.pon
which mi embargo could operate; or, in other words,
the staves and lathwood were literally on the land;
and the pine timber so discharged from the ship and so
deposited, as to be entitled to thie same protection as if
actually laadea and stored.

'SUPREME COURT U. &.
BROWN

v.
IO.STATZ$.

The rule adopted in the English Court of Admiralty,
as laid dawi in :, Bob. 211; is this: ,,All vessels detained in port, and found there at the breaking out of hostilities, are condemned, jure coronoe, to the king; and
all coming in after hostilities, not voluntarily by revolt,
but ignorant of the war. are condemned as draits of ad.
'rniridty. This rule, both in its import and application,
has been adopted, it is conceived, only in cases of vessels and their cargoesfound' in the ports of Great Britain.
Tiere can be no reason for their application in this
country to'property. found on the land, or to property,
although waterborne 3;et, in the same situation, in reason and in fact, as if found lite-ally on land.
Of this description is the property in question. By
referring to the record, partictdarly the depositions of
E. Brown and of Silas Allen, the condition of this pro
perty, from the time it was discharged from the ship to
the time it was seized by Delano, may be learned, from
bence it will appear that the al'egation in the libel,
that the property was on the high seaq, is wholly without foundation. The staves and lathwood were laiided
and on a vhaf .With respect to these, there can be
no doubt. The timber was discharged from the ship in
the month of May, previous to the declaration of war;
it is of such description that it did not admit of being
stored; it would have been injured by lying on the land;
,and the only -.lace prpper to keep it in, was the one selected,.a'creek, or small cove, where the tide ebbs and
flows, but which was not navigable even. for bQats or
scows; for it seems it was nec(-ssary to clear it out to
admit a scow into it. Moreover, it was neessary to
secul-e the entrance of this creek by booms or timber
ljd across its mouth, fe.stned by piles or stakes driven
into the flats. This timber was thus secured and stored
in"the usual way in which property Qf this desrription
is managed; and wis, to all iufents and purposes, as
much lodged afd impounded in this, place, under a bail.
nient, and in civil hands. (r .Pob.p. 28) as if it had
been in a ship yard. It mrest, therefore, be a great
stretch of power and prerogative to extend the reason
of the practice of Gr'eat Britain in cndemning proper.,
ty found in its harbors and On board vessels, to property in the situation of that in question:. and unless the
practice: of Great Britain has extended, to the seizwr

FEBRUAR1Y TERM 1811.
and condemnation of enemies' property found on land Hnow-AT
at the time of breaking out of hostilities, no sanction
Iv.
can be derived from her practice in favor of the confis- 1J.STAMES,
cation of this property,
The case, was submitted by the .Attorney General upon
the argument contained in the opinion of the honorable
judge Story, in the Circuit Court, which came up in
the transcript of the record.
Wednesday, MTarch 2d. Present......ll the Judges.
MARSHAIL,

Ch. J. delivered the ol.inion of the Court,

as follows :
The material facts in this case are these:
The .Enulous owned by John Delano and others
citizens of the United States, was chartered to a company carrying on trade in Great Britain, one, of whom
was an American citizen. for the purpose of carrying a
cargo from Savannah to Plymouth. After the cargo
was put on board, the vessel Nas stopped in port by
the embargo of the 4th of April, 18t12. On the 25th
of the same month, it was agreed between the master
orthe ship and the agent of the shipper,, that ,he should
proceed with her cargo to New Belf'rd, wl.ere hr
owners resided, and remain there w ithout prejudice to
the charter party. In pursuance of this agreem~nt, the
Emilous proceeded to New Bedfrd, whereshe continued
until after the declaration of war. In October or November, the ship was unloaded and th- cargo; except
the pine timber, was land, d. The pine timber was
floated up a salt water creek, wher-e, at low tide, the
ends of the timber rested on the mud, where it was secured from floating out with the tide, by impediments
fastened in the entrance of the creek. On the 7th of
November, 1812, the cargo was sold by the agent of
the owners, who is an American citizen, to the Claimant, who is also an American citizen. On the 19th
of April, a libel was filed by the attorney for the United States, in the district Court of Massachusetts,
against the said cargo, as well on behalf of the United
States of America as for and in behalf of John Delano
an( of all other persons concerned.. It does not hppear
VOL. VIII.
if

SUPREME COURT U. S.
nuowy

T.
V.STATES.

that this seizure was made under any instructions from
the president of the United btates; nor is there any
evidence of its having his sanction, unless the libels being fliled and prosecuted by the law officer who represents the government, must imply that sanction.
On the contrary, it is admitted that the seizure
was made by an individual, and the libel filed at his iiistance, by the district attorney who acted from his own
impressiuns of what appertained to his duty. The pfoperty was claimed by Armitz Brown under the purchase
mnade in the preceding -November.
The district'Court dismissed the libel. The Circuit
Cqurt reversed this sentence. and condemned the pine
timber as enemy property forfeited to the United"States.
Froni the sentence of, the Circuit Court, the Claimant
appealed to this Court
The material question made at bar is this. Can the
pine timber, even admitting the property not. to be
changed by the sale in November, be condemned as
prize of war ?
The cargo of the Emnulous having been legally acquired and put on board te vessel. having been detained by an embargo not intended to act on foreign propertyj the vessel having sailed before the war, from
Savannah, under a stipulation to re-land the cargo in
some port of the United States, the re-landing having
been made with respect to the residue of the cargo, and
the pine timber having been floated into shallow water,
where it was secured and in the custody of the owner
of the ship, an Amnerican citizen, the Court cannot perceive any solid distinction, so far as respects confiscation, betweei this property and other British property
f'ound on land at the commencement of hostilities. It
wili therefore be considered as a question relating to
such property generally, and to be governed by .the
-ame rule.
Respecting the power of goyernment no doubt is enfrrtained. That war gives t.the so*reign full iight
to take tle persons and confiscate the property of the
enemy wherever found, is conceded. The knitigations

FEBRUARY TERM 1814.
of this rigid rule, which the humane andwise policy of BLROWN'
T.
inodern times has introduced into practice, will more or
ie.s affect the exercise of this right, but cannot impair U.ST TE§S
lhen
the right itself. That reinains undiminished, and N%
fie sm, ereign authority shall chuse t6 bring it into operation, the judicial deputmenut must give effict to its
will. But until that will shall be expressed, no power
or condemnation can exist in the Court.

The questions to be decided by the Court are:
1st. NIay enemy's property, found on land at the
commencement of hostilities, be seized and condenned
as a necessary consequence of the declaration of war ?

2d. Is there any legislative act which authorizes "such
seizure anti condemnation ?
Since, in this country, from the structure of our
overinuent, proceedings to condt nn the property of
an enemy found within'our territory at the declarition
of war, can be sustained only upon the principle that
tliey are institute( in e.ecution of some existing lIaw,
we are led to ask,
Is the declaration of war such a law? D1)es that declaration, by its own operation, so vest the property
of the enemy in the government, as to support proceedings for its seizure and confiscation, or does it vest only

a right, the assertion of which depends on the will of
tie sovcreign power ?
The universal practice of forbearing to seize and confiscate debts and crcdits, the principle tumiversally received, that the right to them revives on the restoration
of peace, would seenm to prove that war is not ax absolute confiscation of this property, but simply confers
the rizht of confiscation.
Between debts contracted under the faith of laws, and
property acquirtd in the course of trade, on the faith
of the same laws, reason draws no distinction ; alsd,
although, in practice, Nesscls with their cargoes, found
in port -it the declaration of war. may have been seized,
it is not believed that nodern usage would sanction

the seizure of the goods of an enemy lan land, whick

SUPREME COURT U. S.
B]Row
v.
U.STATES.

were pcrjuired in peace in the course of trade. Such
a proceeding is rare, antl would be deemed a harsh exe1is0 of the rights of war. But although the practice
in this respect may not beuniform, that circumstance
does not essentially affect the question. The enquiry
is, whether such property vests in the sovereign by the
mere declaration of war, or remains subject to a right
of confiscation, the exercise of which depends on the
national will: and the rule which ap~plies to one case,
so far as.respects the operation of a declaration of war
on the thinm, if
self, must apply to all others over which
war gives an equal right. The right of the sovereign
to confiscate debts' b-iing precisely the same with the
right to confiscate other property found in the country,
the ope ratiop of a declaration of war on debts and on
other property found within the country must be the
same. What thi n is this operation ?
Even Bynkershoek, who maintains the broad principle, that in war every thing done againt an enemy is
lawfil; that lie may be destroyed, though unarmed and
defenceless; that fraud, or even poison, may be employcil against him; that a most unlimited right is acquired to his person and property ; admits that war does
flot transfer to the sovereign a debt due to his enemy;
aid, therefore, if payment of such debt be not exacted,
peact. revives the formir right of the creditor; ",be"' caus-," 4c says, " the occupation which is had by
,,war consists more in fact than in law." He adds to
his observations on this sulject, ,let it not, however,
"be supposed that it is only true of actions, that they
"are not condenied ipsojure, for other things also be,longing to thbe enemy may be concealed and escape.
" C,nlenination."

Vtitel says, that cc the sovereign can neither detain
"the pers-rns nor the property of those s'ibjects of the

" enemy wiio are within his dominions at the time of
4 the declaration."
It is true that this rule is, in terms, auplied by Vattel
to the p,-opprty of those only who are personaily within
the territory at the commencement of hostilities; but it
applies equally to things in action and to things in possession; and if wai did, of itself, without any further
exercise of the st-wereign will, vest the property of the

FEBRUARY TERM isi.
enemy in the sovereign, his presence could not exempt &owi
V.
it from this operation of war. Nor can a reason be
perceived for maintaining that the public faith is more U.sTA'Tss.
entilely pledged for the security of property friisted in
the territory of the-nation in time of peace, if it be accompanied by its owner, than if it be confided to the
care of others.
Chitty;, after stating the general right of seizure, says,
,,"But, in strict justice, that right can take effect only
"on those possessions 'of a belligerent which have come
" to the hands of his adversary after the declaration of
,,hostilitieS."
The modern rule then would seem to be, that tangitde property belonging to an enemy and found in tie
country at the commencement of war, ought not to be
immediately confiscated; and' in almost every commercial treaty an article is inserted stipulating for the
right to withdraw such property.
This rule appears to be totally incompatible with tim
idea, that war does of itself vest the property in the
belligerent government. It may be considered as the
opinion of all who have written on the Jus beli, that
war gives the right to confiscate, but does not itself
confiscate the property of the enemy; and their rules
go to the exercise of this right.
The constitution of the United States was framed at
a time when this rule, introduced by commerce in favor
of moderation and humanity, was received throughout
the civilized world. In expounding that constitution, a
construction ought not lightly to be admitted whic][
would give to a declaration of war an effect in this
country it does not poisess else-where, and which would
fetter that exercise of entire discretion respecting enemy property, which may enable the government to apply to the enemy the rule that lie applies to us.
If we look to the constitution itself, we find this general reasoning much strengthened by the words of that
instrument.
That the declaration of war bas only the effect of

SUPREME C.OURT U. S.
;inowN
v.

placing the two nations in a state of hostility, -of producing a state of war, of giving those rights .which war
'.STATES. confers; but not of operating, by its own force, any of
those results, such as a transfer of propu rty, which are
usually produced by ulterior measures of government,
is fairly deducible from the enumeration of powers
which accompanies that of declaring.war. i Congress
*' shall have power"-" to declare wal', grant letters of
*' marque and reprisal, and make rules concerning capl-ures on land and water."
It would be.restraining this clause within narrower
limits than the words themselves import, to say that the
power to make rules concerning captures on land and
water, is to be. confined to captures *hich are exterritorial. If it extends to rules respecting enemy property found %yithinthe territory, then we perceive an express grant to congr ss of the power in question as an
independent substantive power, not included in that of
declaring war.
The acts of congress furnish many iustances of an
opinion that the declaration of war does not, of itself,
authorize proceedings against'the persons or property
of the enemy found, at the time, within the territory.
War gives an equal right over persons and property:
and if its declaration is not considered as prescribing a
law respecling the person of an enemy found in our
country, neither does it prescribe a law for his property., The aft concerning alien enemies, which confeivi
on the president very great discretionary powers respecting their persons, affords a strong implication that
lie did not possess those powers by virtue of the declaration of war.
The "aitct for the safe keeping and accommodation of
Trisonera of war,1 is of the same character.
The act prohibiting trade with the enemy, contains
this clause.:
-"

4Andl be it further enacted, That the president o"
the United States be, and lie is hereby authorized to
f-giverat any lime within six months after the passage

FEBRUARY TERM i8m.
"of this act, passports for the safe transportation of BRowN
V.
"any ship or other properly belonging to British sub,,jects, and which is now within the limits of the United VUSTATES.
" States."
The phraseology of this law shows that the property
of a British sulbect was not considered by the legislature as being vested in the United States by the decaration of war; and the authority which the ;Ict confers
on the president, is manifestly considered as one which
he did not previously possess.
The proposition that a acclaration of wyar does not,
in itself, enact a confiscation of the property of the enemy within the territory of the belligerent, is believed to
be entirely free from doubt. Is there in the act of
congress, by which war is declared against Great Britain, any expression whih would indicate such an intention ?
That act, after placing the two nations in a state of
war, authorizes the president of the United States to
use the whole land and naval force of the United States
to carry the war into effect, and ,,to issue to private
-armi-d vessels of the United States, commissions or
"letters of marque and general reprisal against the
vessels, goods and effects of the government of the
"united kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, and
" the siibjects thereof."
That reprisals may be made on enemy pioperty
found within the United States at the declaration -of
war, if such be the will of the nation, has been adimitted; but it is not admitted that, in the eclaration of'
war, the nation has expressed its will to that efrect.
It cannot be necessary to employ argument in showing that when the attorney for the United States institutes proceedings at law for the confiscation of ejiiemy
property found on land, or floating in one of our creeks,
in the care and ctustody of one of our citizens, he is not
acting under the authority of letters of mnarque and reprisal, still less under the authority of such letters is
sued to a private armed -essel.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
BROWN

v.
U.STATB8.

Tihe "c act concerning letters of marque, prizes ant
prize goods," certainly contains nothing to authorize
this. seizure.
There being no other act of congress which bears
upon the subject, it is considered as proved, that the
legislature has not confiscated enemy property which
was within tie United States at the declaration of war,
and that this sentence of condemnation cannot be sustained.
One view, however, has been taken of this subject
vhich deserves to be further considered.It is iirged that, in executing the laws of war, thc
executive may seize and the Courts condemn all prop.rty which, according to the modern law of nations,
is subject to confiscation, although it might require an
act of the legislature to justify the condemnatioi of that
property whicl, according to modern usage, ought not
to be confiscated.
This argument must assume for its basis the position
that modern usage constitutes a rule which acts directly upon the thing itself by its own force, and not
through the govereign power. This position is not allowed. This usage is a guide which the sovereign follows or abandons at his will. The rule, like other precepts of morality, of humanity, and even of wisdom, is
addressed to the judgment of the sovereign; and although it cannot be disregarded by him without obloquy, yet it may be disregarded.
The rule is, in its nature, flexible. It is subject to
Infinite modification. It is not an immutable rule' of
law, but depends on political considerations which may
continually vary.
Commercial nations, in the situation of the United
States, have always a'considerable quantity of property
in the possession of their neighboks. When war breaks
out, the question, what shall be done with enemy pro.
perty in our country, is a question rather of policy than
of law. The rule which we apply to the property of
our etemy, will be applied by him to the property -of

FEBRUARY TERM is.i,.
*ur citizens. Like all other questions of' policy, it is BROWN
proper for the consideration of a department which can
T,.
modify it at will; not for the consideration of a depart- v.s,3A -Es.
ment which can pursue only the law as it is written. It
-is proper 'orthe consideration of the legislature, not of
the executive or judiciary.
It appears to the Court, that the power of confiscating enemy property is in the legislature, and that the
legislature has not 3et declared its u.ill to confiscate property hich was within our territory at the de laration
of war. The Court is thereibrrt or opini-n that there ig
error in the sentenee of condemnation pr-moun",ed in Ifie
the Circuit Court in this case, and doth direct that the
same be r, versed and annulled, and that tiie sentence or
the District Court be affirmed.
STORY,

J.

In this case, I have the misfortune to differ in opinioai
from my brethren ; and as the grounds of the decree
were fully stated in an opinion delivered in the Court
below, I shall make no apology for reading it in th;&
placce.
"tThis is a prize allegation filed by the district attorney, in behalf of the United States, and of Jo-n Delano,
against 550 tons of pine timber, part of the cargo of the.
American ship Emulous, which was seized as enemies'
property, about the 5t;, day of April, 1813, after the
same had been dischargetl from said ship, and wbile
afloat in a creek or dock at New Bedford, where the
tide ebbs and flows.
From the evidence iii this case, it appears that the ship
Emulous is owned by the said John Delano, John Johnson, Levi Jenny, anl Joshua Delano of New Bedford,
and citizens of the United States. On the 3d day of
February 1812, the owners, by their agents, entered into a charter-party with Elijah Brown as agent of
Messrs. Christopher Idle, Brother and Co. and James
Brown, of London, merchants, for said ship, to proceed
from the port of Charleston, South Carolina, (where the
ship then lay,) to Savannah, in Georgia, and there take
on board a cargo of timber and staves, at a ewrtain
17
VOl,. vIII.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
3unowN
v.

freight stipulated in the clarter-party, and proceed
Nith the same to Plymouth, in'England, "for orders to
It.STATES. unlbad there or at any other of his majosty's dovk-yards
-,inEngland." The ship accordingly proceeded to Sa¢afinid3, took on board the agred cargo, and was there
stopped by the embargo laid 1) Co, g,.ss on the Ith of
April 1812. On the 25th of the same April, it was agrerd between Mr. E. Browii aud the master of the ship,
,that she should procend wifi the (argo to, and lay at
New Bedtod. without pirejudice to the charter-party.
The ship accordingly proceeded for New B- dford, and
arrived there in the latter p/rt of May 181-, where, it
seems, the cargo was finally, b'tt the particular time it,
:not stated, unloaded by the owners of tier ship, the staves
put into a warehouse, and the timber into a salt water
creek or dock, where it has ever since remained, waterborne, under the custody of said John Delano, by whom
tfie subsequent seizuie was made, for his own benefit and
the benefit of the United StateA. On the 7th November,
1812, Mr. Elij'ah Brown, as agent forthe British owners, (one of whom, James Brown, is his brother,) sold
the whole cargo to the present claimant, Mr. Armitz
Brown (who it should seem is also his brother) f r '?433
dollars and 67 cents, payable in nine. months, for which
the claimant gave his note accordingly. The master of
the ship, Capt. Allen, swears tlbat. at the time of entering
into the charter-party, Mr. Elijah Brown stated to Iim
that the British ownwes had contracted with the British
government to furnish a large quantity of timber to be
delfiered in some or his majesty's dock-yards.
Besides tile claim of Mr. Brown, there is a claim interposed by the owners of the ship Emimlotis, praying for
an allowance to' them of their expenses and charges in
the premises.
A preliminary exception has beeu taken to the libel
for a supposed incongruity in blending the rights of the
United States -and of the informer in the manner of a
qui tarn action at the common law.
I do not think this exception is entitled to much consideration. It is, at most, but an iri-egularity which
cannot affect the nature of the proceedings, or oust the
jurisdiction of this Court. If the informer cannot legal-

FEBRUARY TERM isi8.
ly take any hterest, the United States have still a right, BxQwN
iftlkeir title is otherwise well fiunded, to claim a condemv.
nation : Nor woild a pioceeding of this nature be deem- u.s ;'ATE5
ed a fatal irregularity in Courts having jurisdiction of
seizures, whose lp'oceedings are governed by much more
rigid rules than those of the aduiralty. . It is a printiple clearly s-ttlhd at the common law, that any person
might seize uncustomed go,.us to tte use of himself and
the king, and thereupon infoirm of the seizure; and if,
in the exchequer, the informer be not entitled to any part,
the whole shall, on such iniomation, be adjudged to the
king. For tiiis doctrine we have the authority of lord
Hale. Harg. law tracts, 227. And the solemnijudgn ent
of the Court, in loe v. Roe1 'Hardr.185.-and-.3lalde- 'v.
lartlett, Parker, i05. The same rule most undoubtedly
exists in the prize Court, and, as I apprehend, applies
with greater latitude, All property captured .belongs
originally to the crown; and individuals can acquire a
title thereto in no other manner than by grant from the
crowti. :The Elsebe, 5. Rob. 173.-l. Emast, 619.-ite
Mfaria Francoise. 6 Rob. 281. This, however, does not
preclude the right to seize; on the contrary, it is an ndisputable principle in the English prize Courfs, that a
subject may seize hostile property for- the use of the
crown, wherever it is found; and it rests in the. discre.
tion of the crown'whether it will or will not ratify and
consummate the seizure by proceeding to condemniation.
But to the prize Court it is a mattf-r of pure indifference
whether the seizure proceeded originally" from the crown,
of has been adopted by it; and whether the crown would
takejure coronae, by its transcendant prerogative, or jure
agniralitatis,as a flower annexed by its grant to the office of lord high admiral. The cases of captures b- noncommissioned vessels, by comnoanders on foreign'stations,
anterior to war, by private individuals in port or 1n' he
coasts, and by naval commanders on shore on unauthoirsed expeditiors, are all 'very strong illustrations
of the principle. The .qula, 1. Rolb. 37.-The Twcee
Gesuster, 2. Rdb. 28A., not.-The iebeekah, 1. Rob. 2,27.
-The Geflruyda, 2. Rob. A2Il.-The Ot lomane, 5. Rob.
-i -71w Charlotte, 4. Rob. 282.-The Richnzond, 5. Rob.
325.-Thorshaven, 1. E&w. 102.-Hale in Harg. lav
tracts, cht. 28. p. 245. And in cases where private captors seek condemnation to themselves, it. is the settled
course of the Court, on failure of their title, to decree

SUPREME COURT U. S.
ivtoowi condemnation to the crown or the admiralty, as the cir.
cumstances require. The Watsingham Packet, 2. Bob.
v.
U.STATFS. 77.- Fhe Etrusco, 4. Rob. 262. note.-and the cases cited
supra. Nor can I consider these principles of the British Courts a. departure from the law of nitious. The
authority of Puffeudorf hndlattelare intpoduced to shew
that private sul)ject.s are not at liberty to seize the pro.
perty of enemies wit!,out the c.,mnission of the sovercign,
and if they do they are considered as pirates. But when
attentivel. considered, it strikes me that, taking the -ull
scope of thes- authors, they will not be found to support
so broad a position. Puff. B. S. ch. 6. § 2.-Vattel, B.
3. ch. 0 . § U3, 221,i, 2259 226, 227. Vattel himself admits, (§ 284,) that the declaration of war, which enjoins
the subjects at lage to attack the enemy's' subjects, implies a general order; and that to coMmit hostilities on
pur enemy without an order from ou.' sovereign after
the war, is not a violati,)n so much of the la* of nations
as of the public taw applicable to the sovereignty of our
own nation, (§ 2!45.) And lie explicitly states, (§ 226.)
that, by the law of natioms, when once two nations are
engaged in war, all the 6ubjects of the one may commit
h :stilities against those orthe other, and rio them all the
mischif authorized by the state of war. All that lie
contends for is, that though, by the declaration, all the
subjects in general are ordered to attack the enemy, yet
that by custom this is usuially restrained to persons acting under commission ; and that the general order does
not invite the subjfcts to undertake any offensive expedition withouit a commission orparticularorder; (§ 227.)
and that if they do, they are not usually treated by the
enemy in a manner as favorable as other prisoners of
war, (~ 226.) And Vattel (§ 227) explicitly declaresp
that-the declaration of war "6authorizes, indeed, and even
obliges every subject, of whatever rank, to secure the
persons and things belonging to the enemy, when they
Iall into his hands. And he then goes on to state cases
in which the authority of the sovereign may be presumed, ( 28.) The .whole doctrine of Vattel, faitrly considered, am.)unts to no more than this, that the subiect
is not required, by the mere declaration of war, to origi.
nate predatory expeditionp against the enemy; that he is
not authorized to wage war contrary to the will of his
own sovereign ; and that, though the ordinary declaration of war imports a general ai"thority to attack the en

FEBRUARY TERM 1814.
emy and hig property, yet custom has so far restrained B.owN
its meaning, that it is in general confined.to persons
v.
acting under the particular or cdnstructive commission UI.STATES.
of the sovereign. If, therefiore, tie sulbject do idertake
a predatory expediton, it is an infringement of the pubJic law of his own country, whose sovereignty It:- thus in
vades, but it is not a violation of the law of nations of
which the enemy has a right to, complain. 13u(t if the
property of the ernmyfa/ into the hands of a subiect- I,-is bound to secure it.
For every purpose applicable to the present case, it
does not seem necessary to controvert these positions;
and, whatever may be the, correctn,.ss of the others,
I am perfectly satisfied that the position is well founded,
that no subject can legally commit hostilities, or capture
property of an enemy, when, either expressly or constructively; the sovereign has prohibited it. But suppose. he does, I would ask if the sovereign may not
ratify his proceedings; and thus, by a retroactive operation, give validity to them ? Of this there seems to me
no legal doubt. The subject seizes at his peril, and the
sovereign decides, in the last resort, whether he will
approve or disapprove of the act. Thorshavoen, 1, Edw.
i02. Thp authority of PuI'endorfis still less in favor
of the position of the Claimants counsel. In the section
cited (book 8, ch. 6, sec. 21.) Puffendorf considers the
question, to, whidm property captured in war beloligs;
a question also examined by Vattel in the 229th section of
the book and chapter above referr.d to. In the course of
that discussion, Puffendorf observes, ,"that it may be
very justly questoned, whether every thing taken in
war, by private lho.silities, and by the bravery of private
subjects that have no commission to warrant them, belongeth to them that take it. For this is also a part of
the war, to appoint what personq are to act in a hostile
manner against the enemy, and how far : and, in consequence, no private person bath power to make devastations in an enemy's country or to carry off spoil
or plunder without permission from his sovereign: and
the sovereign is to decide how far private men, when
they are permitted, are to use that liberty of plunder;
and whether they are to be the sole proprietors in the
booty or only to share a part of it: so that all a private adventurer in waf can pretend to, is no more than

SUPREME COURT U. S.
nRowN what his sovereign will please to allow him; for to be a
v.
soldier and to act offensively, a man must be commisU.STATSE. sioned by public authority."

As to the point upon which Puffendorf here expresses
his doubts, I suppose that no person. at this day! entertains any tiloubts. It is now clear, as I have already
stated, that all, captures in war enurl to the sovereign,
anl can become private property only, by his gr:nt.
But ts there any tiing in Pufendorf to authorize the,
doctrine, that the subject so seizing property of the
enemy, is guilty of a very enormous crime--of the odious crime of piracy ? And is there, in this language,
any thing to show that the sovereign may not adbpt
the acts of Iiis subjects, in such a case, and give, them
the effect of full and perfect ratification? It has not
been pretendedl, that I recollect, that Grotius supports
tie 'p,sition contended for. To me it seems pretty
clear that hs opinions lean rather the other way; viz:
to support the indisrriminate right of captors to all property captured by theni. Grotius, lib-. 8, ch. 6, sec. 2,
sec. 10, sec. 12. -Bynkershoek has not discussed the
question in direct terms. In one place (Byidk. Pub. Juris, ch. ) lie says, that he is not guilty-of any crime,
by the laws of -war, who invadesa hostile shore in hopes
of getting booty. 'It is true that, in another place (id.
4L/.20,) lie admits, in conformity to his doctrine elsewllere, (id. ch. 17,) that if an uncolnmissioned, cruizer
should sail for the llulpose of making hostile captures,
she m ht be dealt with as a pirate, if she made any
captires except in self-defence. But this lie expressly
grounds' "upon the municipal edicts of his own country
in relatio n to captures made by its own subjects. And
he says, every declaration of war n6t only permits but
expressly orders all subjects to injure the enemy by every possible means; not only to avert the danget of
capture, b~t. to capture and strip the enemy of all his
propert.
And, looking to the g-encral scope of his observations, (id. ch, 3, 4) it ch. 16 4 17.) I think it may,
not unfairly, be argued that, independent of particular
edicts, the subjects of hostile nations rnight lawfully
seize each other's property wherever found: at least,
he states nothing from whicl it can be inferred that
the savelreign might not avail himself or property cap.
tured from the enemy by ':ncommissioned subjecto. On

FEBRUARY TERM t8i.
the whole, I hold that the true doctrine of the law of BRowS
nations, found in foreign juri-ts, is, that private citi'.
zens cannot acquire to themselves a title to Istile pro- U.STITES.
perty, unless it is seized tinder the commission of their sovereign ; and that, if they depredate upon the enemy,
they act upon their peril, and may he liable to punishment, unless their acts are adoptid by their sovereign.
That, in modern times, the mere declaration, of war is
not supposed to clothe the citiz- us Nxith authority to
capture hostile propt rty, but that they may laW t'lly
seize -hostile property in tln'ir own 'defence, and are
bound to secure, for the use of the sovereign, all hostile
property which falls into their WInds. If the principles
of British prize law go further, I am free to say that I
consider them as the law of this counlr.
I have been led into this discussion of the doctrine of
foreign jurists, farther than I originally intendvd;
because the practice of this Court in prize proceedings
must, as I have already intimated, be governed by the
rules of admiralty law disclosed in English reports, in
preference to the mere dicta of elementary writers. I
thought it my duty, however,-to notice these authorities, because they seem generally, relied on by the Claimant's counsel. In my judgment, the libel is well and
properly brought ; at least for all the purposes of justice between the parties before the Court; and I overrule
the exeeption taken to its sufficiency.
Having disposed of this objection, I come now to consider the objection made by the United States against
the suf~ciency of the claim of Mr. Brown ; and I am entirely satisfied that his claim must be rejected. It is a
well known rule of the prize Court, that the onus probandi lies on the Claimant; lie must make out a good
and sufficient title before he can call upon the captors
to shew any ground for the capture. The Walsinghtam
packet, 2, Rob. 77. If. therefiore, the Claimant make
no title, or trace it only by illegal transactions, his
claim must he rejected, and the Court left to dispose of
the cause, as the other parties may establish their rig-hts.
In the present case, Mr. Brown claims a title by virtue
of a contract and sale made by alien enemies since the
war: I say by alien lenemnds; -forit is of no importance
what the character of the agent is; the transaction

SUPREME COURT U. S.
3MowN

V.
U.STATES.

must have the same legal construction as though made.
by the aliens themselevs. Now. admitting that this sale
Was not colorable, but bona fide, which, however, I am
not, at lresent, disposed to believe, still it was a contract matle with enemies, pendifig a known war; and
therefore invalid. No principle of national or municipal law is better settled, than that all contracts with an
enemy, made during war, are utterly void. This principle has grown hoary under the rev rend respect of
centuries; (19, Edw. 4, 6, cited Theo-. Dig. lib. 1. ch.
6, sbe. 21. Ex parte Bonsmaker. i3, M:.. jun. 71Rriston -v. Towers, 6, T. R. 15,) and cannot now be shaken without uprooting the very foundations of national
law.
ygnk. quwest. Pub. Jurts, ch. 3.
1, therefore, altogether reject the claim interposed by
Mr. Brown. What, then, is to be done with the property? It is contended, on the part of the United
$tates, that it ought to be condemned to the United
States, with a rec6mpense, in the nature of salvage, to
be awarded to Mr. Pelano. On the part of the Claimant's counsel (who, under the circumstances, must be
considered as arguing as amics crie to infirm the conscience of the Court) it is contended, 1st. That this
Coort, as a Court of prize, has no proper jurisdiction
over the cause. 2d. That if it have jurisdiction, it cannot award condemnation to the United States, for several reasons. ist. Because, by the law of nations, as
now understood, no government can lawfully confiscate
the debts, credits, or visible property of alien enemies,
which have been contracted or come into the country
4uring peace. 2d. Because, if the law of nations does
nrot, the common law does afor1 such immunity from
confiscatiqn to property situated like the present. 3d.
Because, if the right to confiscate exist, it can be exercised only by a positive act of congress, who have not
yet legillated to this extent. 4th. Because, if the last
position be not fully accurate, yet, at all events, this
-process) being a high prerogative power, ought not to
ae exercised , except by expres, instructions from the
president, which are not shown in this case.
Some of these questions are of vast importance and
most extensive operation; and I am oxceedingly o~iiged to the gentlemen who have apued them with so

FEBRUARY TERM m814.
rhuch ability and learning, for the light which they ha e
thrown upon a-path so iitricate and obscure. I hi-ve
given these questions as much consideration as the state
of my health and the brevity of time would allow; and
I shall now give them a distinct and separate discussion, that I may at least disclose the sources of my errors, if any, and enable those Who unite higher powers
of discernment with more extensive knowledge, to give
a more exAct and just opinion.
And first....As to the jurisdiction of this Court in niatters of prize.
This depends partly on the prize act of 26th June,
i. 107. § 6, and partly 3n. the true extent and
meaning of the admiralty and maritime jurisdiction
conterred ,n the Courts (if
the United States. The act
of 26,th June, 1812, ch. 107, provides that in all cases
of captured vessels, goods an,! effects which shall be
brought within'the jurisdiction vf the United States, the
district Court shall have exclusive original cognizance
thereof. as in civil causes of admiralty and in ritime
jurisdiction. The act of 18th June, 182, cit. 102, de*
elaring war, authorizes the president to issue 'etters of
marque and reprisal to private armed ships 4gainst the
vessels, goods and elf cts of the British government and
its subjects; and to use the ihote land and naval'torce
of the United States to carry' the wpr into effect. Ii
neitler of these acts is there any limitation as to the
1812,

places where captures may be made (n the, land or on

the ineas; and, of course, it would seem that the right
of the Cots to adjudicate r spectini, captures would be
co-extensive with such captures, whereve, made, unless
the jurisdiction confrred is manifestly coidlined bi the
former act to captures made by private armed vesskis.
It is not, hoi~ever, necessary closely to sift this voint,
as it may now be considered as settlcd law, that the
Courts of the United States, under the judicial act of
30th September, 1789, ch. 20, have, by the deleg iton
of all civil causes of admiralty and maritime jurisdiction, at least as full jurisdiction of all causes of prize
as the admiralty in England. Glass and at. v,.
the dloop
Betsey and at. 3 Dall. 6. Talbot 'v. Janson, 3 Dall. 133
I'enludlow and al. -v. Doade's administrators. 3 DalI. 56
Jennings ".Carson, - Cranch, 2. Over what. captures,
VOL. VII.
Is

euowN
v.
U.STA'rIS.

SUPREME COUWr U. S.
unowN
V.
U.STATEs.

then, has the admiralty jurisdiction as a prize Court i
This is a question of considerable intricacy, and has not
as yet, to my knowledge, been fully settled. It has

been doubted whlather the admiralty has an inherent
jurisdiction of prize, or obtains it by virtue of the com-

mission usually issued on,the breaking out of' war.
That the exercise of the jurisdiction is of very high an-

tiquity and beyond the time of memory, seems to be incontestible. It is found recognized. in various articles
of the black book of the admiralty, in publc treaties
and proclamations of a very early date, and in the most
v'enerable relics of ancient jurisprudence. See Robb.
Col. .1larit.Intro. p. 6, 7. Id. Instructions, 3 H. 8, p.
10, art. 18, 'c. Li. p. 1-2, note letter. Edw. 3, .A,D.
13-3. Treaty cujry 7 and Clurles 8, .1. . 1197. Rob.
Coll. Jrarit.p. 3 and p.98, art. 8. Rob. Coll. Arar. p.
19, note. Roughtan,'art. 19, 20, 4c. kc.passim. In
Lindo v. Rodney, Doug. 613, note, Lord .Jlansfield, in
discussing the subiJect, admits theimmemorial antiquity
of the prize jurisdiction of the admiralty; but leaves it

uncertain whether it was coeval with the instance jurisdiction. and whether it is constituted by special commission, or only called into exercise thereby. After'the
doubts of so eminent ao judge, it would not become me
to express a decided opinion. But taking the fact that,
in the earliest times, the jurisdiction is found in the possession of tie .admiralty, independent of any known
special commission; that, in other countries, and especially in Frauce, upon whose ancient prize ordinances

the administration of irize law seems,,iu a great mea-

sure, to have been moidelied, (Vide Ordin. of Fr'ance.
.q.D. t,00, tb. Coll. .Oarit.p. 75. Ordin. of France,
.. D. i5S4. lil. p. 105. Treaty Henry 7 and Charles
S. Id. p. 83, and Rob. note, Id. 105) tho jurisdiction
has unifoirmly belonged to the admiralty; there seems
very stiong reason to presume that'it always constituted an ordinary an! nit an extraordinary branch of
•,Ie admiralty powers: and so I apprehend it was considerel by the Supreipc Court of the United States, in
Glass and a[. -v. the Betsdy, 3 Dali. 6.

However this question may oe, as to the right of te
admiralty t' take cognizance of merd captures made or
the land, exclusively hIsland forces, as to which I give
no opinion, it is very clear that its jurisdictioit is n t

FEBRUARY TERM 1814.
confined to mere captures at sea.

The prize jurisdic-

BRow

v.
tion does not depend upon locality, but upon the subject
matter. The words of the prize commission contain U.TATtS.
authority to proceed upon all and all manner. of captures, seizures, prizes and reprisals of all ships and
goods that are and shall he taken. The adnliralty,
theretbre, not orly takes cognizance of all captures
made at sea, in creeks, havens and rivers, but also of
all captures made on land, where the same have been
made by a naval force, or by co-operation Nsithi a naval
force. This exercise of jurisdiction is settled by the
most solemn adjudications. Key and Ilubbard v. Pearse;
cited in Le Caux v. Eden, Doug. 606. Lindo -v.Rodney,
Doug. 613, note. The capture of the Cape of Good Hope,
2 Rob. '27*7. The Stella del MYorte, 5 Rob. 3-9. The islatul
of Trinidad,.5 Rob. 92. Thorshaven, I Edw. 102. "re
capture of Chrinsnrah, i Deten. 179. The Rebeckah, 1
Bob. 227. The Grtruyda, 2 Rob. 211. The .Alaria.Francoise, 6 Rob. 282.'

Such, then, being the acknowledged extent of the
prize jurisdiction of the admiralty, it is, at least in 'as
ample an extent, conferred on the Courts 9f the United
States. For the determinaion, therefore, of the case
befdre the Court, it is not necessary to claim a more
ample jurisdiction; for the capture or seizure, theugh
made in port, wasmade while the property was-waterborne. Had it been landed and remained on land, it
would have deserved consideration whether it could
have been proceeded against as prize, under the admiralty jurisdiction, or whether, if liable to seizure and
condemnation in our Courts, the remedy ought not to
have been pue'sued by a process applicable to municipal

confiscations. On these points I give no opinion. See
the case- of the Oester Eeins cited in the Two Friends,
i Rob. 281,, todte. Hate de Portubus .- ar-is, 4-. in Harg.
Law tract, ch. 28, p. 215, 4*e. Parker Rep. 267.
Having disposed of the question as to the jurisdiction
of this Court. I come to one of a more.general nature';
viz. Whether, by the modern law of nations, the sovereign has a right to confiscate the debts due to his enem3, or the goods of his enemy fiund within his territory
at the commencement of the war. I might spare myself
the conqideration of the question as to debts; but, as it

SUPREAE COURT. U S.
Br.owx has been ably argued, I will submit some views respectV.
ing it, becauae'they will illustrate and confirm the doeUT.STA rES trine applicable to good:.
It seems conceded, anti indeed is quite too clear for argument, that, in former times,
the-right to confiscate debts A8
as admitted as a doctrihe
ol natoial law. It had the counfenance of the civil law.
(Dig. hb. 11. lit. .- id. lib. 49, tit.
15,)-of Grotius, (De
Jure bdli et pacis, lib. 3, ch. 2, § 2, cl. 6. § 2 Ah. 7. § 3 aud
4 , ch.
13,, .)-of lPufeto, (De jure .Xat. et Xaht.
lib. 8,ch. 6. § 2s,)-and lastly of Bynke}'sioek; (quwst.
Pub. Juris, lib. 1, ch. 7,) who is himself of the highest
authority, and pronounces his opinion in the most explicit ma'nner.
)own to the year 1737, it may be considered as the opinion of jur;sts that the right was unquestionable. It is. then, incumbt nt on those who assume a
different doctrine, to prove that, since that period, it
his by the gn-ral consent 6f nations, become incorporated into the code of public law. I take upon me to say
that no .jui
ist of reputation can'be found who has denied
the'right of confiscation of enemies debts.
Vattel has
been supposed t. be the most favorable to the new doctrine. He certainly does not deny the right to confiscat ; and if he may be thought to hesitate in admitting
it, nothing more can be gathered from it than that lie
considers that, inthe present times, a relaxation of the
rigor of the law has ben in pra tic. among the sovereigns of Europe. -Vttel, lib. 3, ch. 5, § 77. Surely a
relaxation of the law in practice cannot be admitted to
constitute an aboltirn i prin'ple, when tie principle is
as.wrted, as lat a,;1737, by Bynkersljoe. amid flhe relaxation slewn by Yattel in 1775. In another place,
however, Vattel, speaking on the subject of reprisals,
admits the right to seize the property of the nalion or
it, sul)Iicts 4y wa) of reprisal, and, if war ensues, to
confiscate the property so seized. The only excrptisui
he inak s. is of property which has been deposited in the
hand's of the nation, and intrusted to tile public faith ; as
is tie cas; of property in the public funds. Vattel lib.
2, ch. 18, § 3 2, 343, 311. Tile vety exception evinces
pretty stro.gly the opinion of Vattel as to the general
rule. (if the character of yattel as a jurist, I shall not
under take to express an opinion. T't
he has great
merit is coneded ; though a learned civilian, sir James
TMac Inissh, informs us tat h6 has fallen into great mistakes in important '6practical discunsions of public lawj,"

FEBRUARY TERM 1*81.
Discourse on the law oj niations, p. 32, note. But if he is BRows
v.
singly to he opposed to the w,.ghtofGrotius and Pufiendorf, and, above'al, Bynkershock, it will he difficult for U.sTA'kE&
him to sustain so unequal a coiitest IIhav%been pressed with the opinion of a very distinguished writer of
our own country on thiq subject.-Camilfits, .Ab. 18 to ,2.,
on the British treaty of 1791. 1 admit, inthe fullest manner, the great merit of the argmnent which he has. adduced agautst the confiscation of prvate debts due to enemy subjects. L.ooking to the measure not as of strict
right, but as of sound policy and national honor, I have
no hesitation to say that the argument is unansweral;e.
He proves incontrovertibly what the highest interest of
nations dictates with a view to permanent policy : but I
have not been able to perceive the prooft by which he
overthrows the ancient principle. In respect to the opinion of Grotius, quoted by him in No. 20, as indicating a
doubt by Grotius of his own principles, I cannot help
thinking that the learned writer has himself fallen into a
mistake. Grotius, in the place referred to, lib. 3, ch.
'90, § 16, is not adverting to the right of confiscation, but

merely to the general results of a treaty of Feace. He,
says (§15,) that, after a peace, no action lies for 4amnages done in the war; but (§ 6,) that debts due before
the war are not, by the mere pperations of the war, released, but remain suspended during the war, and the
right to recover them revives at the peace. It is impossible to doubt the meaning of Grotius, when the preceding and succeeding sections are taken in connexion.'
Grotius, threfiore, is not inconsistent with himself, nor
is 16 BN nkershek more inconsistent ;" for the latter explicitly avows the same doctrine, but considers it inapplicable to debts confiscated during the war ; for these
are completely extinguished. Bynk. qucest. Pub. juris,
rh. 7.
It is supposed by the same learned writer, that the
principle of confiscating debts had been abandoned for
mrere than a century. That the practice was intermitted, is certainly no very clear proof of an ab indonment
of the principle. Motiveso' policy and the general interests of commerce may combine to induce a nation not
to inforce its strict rights, but it ought not thetefoire to be,
construed to ielease them. It may, hoever, be well
doubted if the practice is quite so uniform as it is suppo-

SUPREME COURT V. S
nytowv.

sed. The case of the Silesia loan, which exercised the
highest tdents of the English nation, is an instance to
USTtTES. the contrary, almost within half a century, (in t752,)
It the very elaborate. discussions of national law to
which that cas gave birth, there is not the slightest inlimation that the law of nations prohibited a sovereign
from confiscating debts due to his enemies, even where
the debts were due flom the nation; though there is a
very able statement of its injustice in that particular
ease: and the Englisli memorial admits that when sovereigns or states borrow money from foreigne's, it is
very commonly expressed in the contract, that it should
not be seized as reprisals, or in case of war. Now it
strikes me that this very circumstance shews in a strong
light the general opinirn as to the ordinary right of
confiscation. The stipulations of particular treaties of
the United States have been cited, in corroboration of
their general doctrine, by the claimant's counsel. These
treaties cerlainly s!iew the opinion of the government as
to the impolicy of entkrcing the right of confiscation
against debts and actions. See treaty with Great .'itain, 1791. art. tO-twith France 1778, art. 20-wihl

Holland, 8th October 1782, art. 18-w'with Prussia, 11th
Jdy f799, art. 23-with Arorocco, 1787, art. 21-But I
cannot admit them to be evidence for the purpose for
which they have been introduced. It may be argued
with quite as much if not greater force, that these stipulations imply an acknowledgement of the general right
of confiscation, and provide fi)r a liberal relaxation beiween the parties. i hold, with Bynkershoek, (q(uest.
.ub. .Tur. ch. 7.) that where such treaties exist, they
must be observed; where there are none, the general
right prevails. . It has been further supposed, that the
common law of England is against the right of confiscating debts ; and the declaration of .,4 hgtnt Charta,cl. 30,
has been cited to shew the liberal views of the British
constttutin. This declaration, so far as is necessary
to the prese!t purpose, is as follows: ' If they" (i. e.
foreign merchants,) "bbe of a land making war against
us, and be found in our realm at the beginning of the
war, they shall he attached without harni of body or
goods (rerun) until it be known linto us, or our chief
justice, hoW our merchants he entreated, then in the land

making war against us, and if our merchants be well
entreated there, theirs shall he likewise with us." I

FEBRUARY TERM 1814..
quote the translation of lord Coke; (2, Just. 27.)-This Bnowi
would certainly seem to be a very liberal provision; and ,v.
if its true construction applied to all property and per- u.sT.TER
sons, as well transiently in the country as domiciled and
fixed there, it would certainly lie entitled to all' the enoomiums which it has received. Montesq. Spiritof La'ws,
lib. 20, ch. 14. How far it is now considered as binding,
in relation to vessels and goods found within the realm
at the commencement of the war, : shall hereafter consider. It will he observed, however, that this article of
Iagna Charta, does not protect the debts or property of
foreigners who are 'without the realm: it is confined to
foreigners 'within the realm upon the public faith on the
breaking out of the war. Now it seems to be the established rule of the common law, that all choses in action,
belonging to an enemy, are forfeitable to the crown; and
that the crown is at liberty, at any time during the war,
to institute a process, and thereby appropriate them to
itself. This was the doctrine of the year books, and
stands confirmed by the solemn decision of the exchequer, in the ttorney General -v. Weeden, ParkOrRep. 267.
--. 1Maynaxtd's Edw. 2, cited ibid.-It is a prerogative of
the crown which, I admit, has been very rarely enforced;
(See lord Aranley's observations in Furtado ". Rodgers'
3, Bos. and Put. 191,) but its existence cannot admit ot
a legal doubt. On a review of authorities, I am efitirely satisfied that, by the rigor of the law of natons and
of the common law, the sovereign of a nation may lawfully confiscate the debts of his enemy, during wal, or
by way of reprisal : and I will add, that I think this
opinion fully confirmed by the judgement of the Supreme
Court in Ware v. Hylton, 3, Dal. 199, where the doctrine was explicitly asserted by some of the judges, reluctantly admitted by others, and denied by none.
In respect to the goods of an enemy rourd within the
4ominions of a belligerent power, the right of confiscation is niost amply admitted by Grotius, and Puffendorf, and Bynkershoek, and Burlamaqid, and Rutherforth and Vattel. See Grotius, and Pffelorf, and
Bynkerswhek ubi supra ; and Bynk. qu. Pub. JTur. c. 4.
and 6. 2, Barla. p. 209, see. 12, p. 219, scc. 2, p. 221,
sec. 11. Ruth. lib. !2, c. 9, p. 558 to 573. Such, also,
is the r'nh of the common law. Hale in Harg.law
tracts, p. "215. e. 18. VuatMl has indeed contended (ant

SUPREME COURT U. S.
ERowN
V.
U.STATEs.

--

in this he is followed by Jzuni, Part. 2, ch. 4, art. Z.
sec. 7,) that the sovereign declaring war, can neither
detain th6 persons nor the property of those subjects of
the en.-my who are'within his dominions at the time of
the declaration, because they came into the country
apon the'public faith. This exception (which, in terms,
is confined to the property of persons who are within
the country,) seems highly reasonable in itself. and is
an extension of the rule in Mlagna Charta. But, even
limited as it is, it does not seem followed in practice;
and Bynkershoek is an authority the"other way Bynk.
iqucest. Pub. Jur. c. 2, 3, 7. In England; the provision
in MIagua Charta seems, in practice, to have been confined to foreign merchants domiciled there ; and not
extended to others who came to ports of the realmn for
occasional trade. Indeed, from the language of some
authorities, it would seem that the clause was inserted,
not so much to benefit foreign merchants, as to provide
a remedy for their own subjects, in rases of hostile
injuries in foreign countries. (See the opinion of Ch.
J. Lee in Key v. Pearse, cited Doug. 606, 607.) However this may be, it is very certain that Great Britain
has uniformly seized, as prize, all vessels and cargoes
of her enemies found afloat, in her ports at the comniencement of war.

Nay, she has proceeded yet far.

ther, and, in contemplation of hostilities, laid embar;oes on foreign vessels and cargoes, that she might, at
all events, secure the prey. It cannot be ni cessarv for
me to quote authorities on this point. In the artieles
respecting the droits of admiralty in i665, th 're is a ve.,
ry formal recognition of the rights of the cro%vn to all
vessels and cargoes seizted'bef .re hostilities. The ReThis exerbeekah, i, Rob. 227, and id. 230, vote (a.)
cise of hqstile right-f the summuom jus, is so far, in(Iced, from being obsolete, that it is in constant operation, and, in the present hostilities, has been applied to
the property of the citizens of the United Stat,'s. Of a
similar character, is the detention of American seamen
found in her service at the cominenceit nt of the war,
as prisoners of war ; a practice which violates the spirit, though not the letter, of Alagna Charta; and, certainly, can, in equity and good faith, find few advocates,
Of the right of Great Britain thus to seize vessels and
cargoes found in her ports on the breaking out ol
war, I do not find any denial in authorities which arf

FEBRUARY TERM isi.
entitled t6 much weight; and I, therefore, consider the
1-ule of the law of nations to b-, that tvery st h exercise
of authority is lawf'1, and rests in the sound discretion
of the sovereign of the nation.

Bnow-

v.
U.STATES.

The next question is. whether congress (for with
them rests the sovereignty of the nation as to the right
of making war, and declaring its'limits and efif( ts)
have authorized the seizure of enemies' property aflat
in our ports. The act of J81h Junt, IS12, ch. 102, is
in very general ternis, decla.ing \sa, againit Qreat
Britain, and authorizing the president to einplo) the
public forces to carry it into effect. Indepcndnt of
such express authority, I tink that, as the executive of
the nation, he must, as at incident of the offic(, have a
right to employ all the usual and customary meaus acknowledged in war, to carry it into effect. And there
being no limitation in the act, it seems to folljw that
the executive may authorize the capture of all enwnies'
property, wherever, by the law ofrnations, it may be
lawfully seized. In cases where no grant is made by
congress, all such captures, made wider the atit',ority
of the executive, must cnure to the use of the government. That the executive is not restrained from authorizing captures on land, is clear from the protisions
of the act. He may employ and actually has employed
the land forces ifr that purpose; and no one has doubted the legality of the conduct. That captures may be
made, within our own ports, by commissioned ships4
seeims a natural result of the language-of the generality of expression in relation to the authority to grant
letters of mnarquc and rprisal to private armed vessls,
which the act does not confine to capture.s on the high
seas, and is supported by the known usage, of Great
Britain in similar cases. It would be strange indeed, it' the executive could not authorize or ratiry a
capture in our own ports, unless by gi altin'ul a connision to a public or private ship. I ara it ,t hodh enovgh
to interpose a limitation -here congress have not chosen to ntake one ; and I hold, tht, h i the act declaring
war, the executive may authorize all captures which,
by the modern law of nations, are permitted and approved. It will be at once perceived, that 'in this doctrine T do not mean to in-lude the right to cenfiscate
debts due to enemy subjects. This, though P,#trictlr
19
VOL. VIII.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
nHowN

-o.
U.STATES.
----

national right,. is so justly deemed odious in modern
times, and is s6 generally discountenanced, that nothing
hht an express Mt of congress would satisfy my mind
that it ought to, be included' among the fair objects of
warfare; more especially as our own government l ave
declared it unjust and impolitic.
But if congress
should enact such a law, however much I might regret it, I am not aware that foreign nations, with
whom we have no treaty to the contrary, could, on the
footing of the rigid law of nations, complain, though
they might deem it a violation of tihe modern policy.
On the whole, I am satisfied that congress have authotized a seizure and condemnation of enemy property found in our poyrts under the cicumstances of the
present case. And the executive may lawfully authorize proceedings to enforce the confiscation of the same
property before the proper tribunals of the United
States. The~district attorney is, for this purpose, the
proper agent of the executive and of the United States.
From the character and duties of his station, he is
bound to guard the rights of the United States, and to
secure their interests., Whenever he chses to institute
proceedings on behalf of the United States, it is presumed by Courts of law that he hasthe sanction of the proper authorities; and that presumption will avail, until
the, executive or the legislature disavow the proceedings,
and sanction a restoration of the property.
I have taken up more time ian,I originally intended,

in discussing the various subjectssubmitted in the argument. An apology will be.found in their extraordinary importance. If I shall have successfully shewn
that the principles of prize law, as admitted in England
and in the United States, have 'the sanction of the principles of public law and public jurists,, I shall not regret.the labor that has been employed, although, in this
particular case, I may pronounce an erroneous sentence.
I reverse the decree of the, district Court, and condemn the 550 ton* of timher to the United States; subject, howe ver, to the right of the owners of the Emidous
to a reimbursement of their actual charges and expenses for the custody of the property, which I shall reserve
for further consideration : and I shall order the said

FEBRUARY TERM

,814.

property to be sold, and-the proceeds brought into Court
to abide the further order of the Court."

3RoWTI

v.
U.STATES.

Such is the opinion vhich I had the honor to pronounce in the Circuit Court; and upon the most mature
reflection, I adhere to lt. The argument in this -Court,
urged on behalf of the Claimant, has put in controversy the same points which were urged before nme. But
as the opinion of this Court admits many of the principles for which I contended, I §hall confine my additional remarks to sich as have ben overruled by ly brethren.
It seems to have been taken for granted in the argument of, counsel that the opinion held in the Circuit
Court proceeded, in some degree, ipon a suppositioi,
that a declaration of war operates per se an actuW tconfiseation of enemy's property. found within our territory.
To me this is a perfectly novel doctrine. It was not
argued, on either side, in the Circuit Cburt, and certainly never received the slightesf countenance from
the Court. I disclaim, therefore, a iy intention to support a doctrine which I always stipposed to be wholly
untenable. I go yet further, and admit that a declaration of war does not, of itsolfi import a confiscation of
enemies' property within or without the country, on the
land or on the high seas. "The title of the enemy is nrt
by war divested, but remains in proprio vigore, until a
hostile seizure and possession has impaired his title.
All that I contend for is, that a declaration of waK gives
a right to conliscate vnemies' property, and enableg the
power to wNhom the execution of the laws and the prosecuion of the war are confided, to enforce that right.
Itf, inaced, tlirre be a liait imposed as to th6 extent 16
which hostilities may be carlied by-the executive, I admit that the executive cannot lawfully transcend that
limit; but if n such limit exist, the war may be, carried on according to the. principles of the moderh law
of nations, and tnforced when, and where, and on
what property the executive chooses.
In no act whatsoever, that I recollect, have congress
dtbclared the confiscation of enemies' property. They
have autlorized' the president to grant letters of marque
and general reprisal, which he'may revoke and annul

SUPREME COURT T. S.
-at his pleasure: and eVen as to captures actually naiue
under such commissions, no absolute title by confiscaIY.STATES. tion vests'in the captor, until a sentence of condeination. If, therefore, British property had come into our
ports since the war, and the president had declined to
issue letters of marque and reprisal, there is no act of
congress which, in terms, declares it confiscated and
subjects itto condemnation. If, nevertheless, it be confiscable, the right of confiscation results not from the express provisions of any statute, but from the very state
of war, which subje'ts thehostile property to the disposal of the gov,-rnment. But until the title shouhl he
divested by some-overt-act of the government and some
judicial sentence; the property would unquestionably
remain in the Bitlish owners, and if a pea' e should
intervene, it would be completely beyond the reach of
subsequent condemnation.
BRowif

10.

There is, then, no distinction recognized by any act of
congress, between enemies' property which was mithin
our ports at the commencement of war, and enemies'
property found elsewhere. Neither are declared ipso
facto confiscated; and each, as I contend, are merely
confiscable.
I will now consider what, in point of law, is the operation of the atts of Congress made in relation to the
present war.
The act of 18th June, 1812, ch. 102, declates war to
exist between Great Britain and the United States, and
authorizes the president of the United States to use the
land and naval force of the United States to carry the
same into effect; and further authorizes him to issue
letters of marque, &c. to private armed vessels, against
the vessels, goods and effects of the government of Great
Britain and the subjects thereof.
The prize act of 26th June, 1812, ch. 107, confers the
power on he president to issue instructions to private
armed xessels, fr the regulation of theii conduct. The
act of 61h .1I y, 1812, ch. 128, authorizes the president
to make regulations, &c. for the support and exchange
of prisoners of war. The act of 6th Juls, 1812, ch. 129,
respecting trade with the enemy, authorizes the presi

FEBRUARY TERM' 1814.
dent to grantpassports for the 'property of British sub. BROWN
',.
jects within the limits of the Lnited States during the
spa<, of six months, and protects certain British pack- U.STATzS.
ets, &c. " ith ldespatchs, frain capture. The act of 3d
March, 1813, ch. 203. vests in the president the power
of retaliation for any violation of the rules and. usages
of civilized warfare by Grf.at Britain.
These are all the acts.which confer powers, or mcike
provisions tou'hi g the management of the war. In no
one sif them is there the slightest limitation upon the
executive powers growhig out of a state of war; and
they exist, therefire, in their full and perfect vigoun.
By the constitution. the executive is charged with the
faithful execution of the laws ; and the language of the
act declaring war authorizes him to carry it into effect.
In what manner, and to what extent, shall he. carry it
into effect ? What are the legitimate objects of the warfare %ihichhe is to wage ? There is no act of the legislature defining the piw crs, objects orixiode or warfar. :
by what rule, then, must lie be governed ? I think the
only rational answer is by the law of nations as applied
to a state of war. Whatever act is legitimate, whatever act 'is approved by the law, or hostilities among ci-'
vilized nations, such lie may, in his discretion, adopt
and exercise; for with him the sovereignty of the nation rests as to the execution of the laws. If any of
such acts are, disapproved by the legislature, it is in
their power to narrow an(! limit the extent to which the
rights of war shall he exercised ; but until such limit is
assigned, the executive must have all the right of modern warfare vested in him, to be.exercised ill his sound
discretion, or he can have none. Upon what principle,
I would ask, can lie have an implied authority toadopt
one and not another ? The best manner of annoying,
injuring and pressing tle enemy, must, from the nature
of things, vary under differoit circumstances ; and the
executive is responsible to the nation for the faithful
discharge of his duty, under all the changes of hostilities.
But it is said that a declaration of war does not, of
itself, impoit a right to confiscate enemies' property
found within the country at the commencement of war.
I cannot admit this position in the extent in which it is

SUPREME COURT U. S.
unlowf
IV.

laid down. ,Nothing, in my, judgment, is more clear
fpiwn anthorjty, than the right to seize hostile property
U.s8'ATEs, afoat in our ports at the commencement of war.
It is
the settled practice of nations, and the modern rule of
Great Britain herself, applied (as appears from the affidavits in this very cause) to American property in the
'pnesent war; applied, also, to property not merely on
board of ships, but to spars floating alongside of themI forbear, however, to press this point, because my opi.nion in the Court below contains a full discussion of it.
It is also said that .declaration of war does not carry with it the right-to confiscate property found in our
couptry at the commencemenit of V,ar, because the constitution itself, ih giving congress the Fower 6'to de,,clare war, grant letters of marque at.d reprisal, and
is make rules concerning captures on land and water,"
has clearly eVinced that the power to declare war did
not, ex -vi terminorum, include a right to capture property every where, and that the power to make rules concerning captures on hind and water, may wll be considered as a substantive power as to captures of property "itthin our own territory. In "my judgment, if this
argument prove any thing, it proves too much. It' tile'
liower to make rules respecting captures, &c. be a substantivo power, it is equally applicable to all captures,
wherever made, on land or on water. The terms of the
grant import- no limitation as to place ; and I am not
.awarehow we can place around them'a narrower limit
than the terms import. Upon the saine construction,
the power to grant letters of marque and reprisal is a
substantive power ; and a declaration of war could not,
of itself, authorize any seizure whatsoever of hostile
-iroperty, unless this power was called into cxercise.
I cannot, therefole, yield assent to this argument. The
power to declare war, in my opinion, includes all the
powers incident to war, and necessary to carry it into
effect. If the constitution had been silent as to letters
of marque and captures, it would not have narrowed
the authority of congress. The authority to grant
letters of marque and reprisal, and to regulate captures,
are ordinary and nccessary incidents to the power of
declaring war. Itwould be utterly inelfectdal without
them.- The expression, therefore, of that which is implied in the very nature of the grant, cannot weaken the

FEBRUARY TERM is8i.
force cf the grant itself. The words are merely ex- inowN
planatory, and intrJduced ex abundanti cautela. It
V.
mig-ht be as well contended; that the power " to provide v.sTArEs.
and maintain a navs," did not include the power to
regulate and govern it, because tljere is in the constitution an express provision to this effect. And yet I suppose that no pjrs4un would doubt that congress, imdcpendenu of such express provision, would have {he
power to regulate and govern the navy ; and if they
should authorize the executive ,,to provide and maintain a navy," it seems to me as clear that he must havxe
the incidental power to make rules for its government.
In truth, it is by no means unfiequent in the constitution to add clauses of a special nature to general powers which embrace them, and to provide affirmakively
for certain po ers, without meaning thereby to nega.
tive the existence of powers of a more general nature.
The power to provide ,for the common defence and
general wellare," could hardly be doubted to include
the power ;,to borrow money-;" the ppwer "to coin money," to include the power ..to regulate the value there6f;" and the power ",to raise and support armies" to
include the power ",to make rules for the government
and regulation" thereof. Oin the other hand, the aforhmative power "i to define and punish piraciks and felqjuies committed on the high seas," has never been supposed to negative the right to punish other offences on
the high seas; and congress have actually legislated to
a more enlarged extent. I cannot therefore persuade
myself that the argameut against the doctrine for which
I contend, is at all affected by any provision in the constitution.
The opinion of my brethren seems to admit that the
effect of hostilities is to confer all the rights which war
confers ; and it seems tacitly to concede, that, by virtue.
of the declaration of war, the executive would, have a
right to seize enemies' property which should actually
come within our territory during the war. Certainly
no such power is given directly by any statute. And
if the argument be correct, that the power to make captures on land or water must be expressly called into
exercise by congressi before the executive cgn, even
after war, enforce a. capture and 'condemnation, it will
he very difficult to support the concession. ,Suppose a

SUPREME COURT U. S.
AlRoWN

v.

U.STATES.

--

British ship of war or merchant ship should no, come
,within our ports, there is no statute declaring such
ship actually confilcated. There is no express authority either for the navy or army to make a capture
of her ; and although the executive might authorize a
private armed ship so to do, yet it would 'depend altogither on the will of the owners of the ship, whether
they Would so do or not. Can it be possible that the
executive has not the power to authorize such seizure?
And if lie may -authorizea seizure by the army or navy,
why not by private individuals if' they will volunteer for
the purpose ?
'The act declaring war has authorized the executive
to employ the land and naval force of .the United States,
to carry It into effect. When and where shall lie carry
it into effect? Vongrvss have'not declared that any capures shall be made on land; and if this be a substantive power, not inpluded in a declaration ofwar, how can
the executive make captures ou lam'. 'hen congress
irave not expressed their will to thig effl-ct? The power
to employ the army and navy might well be exercised in
preventing invasion, and in the commen dfence, without unnecessarily including a right to capture, if the
i'ighit to capture be not an incident of war: and upon
what ground, then, can the executive plan and execute
fireign expeditions or foreign captures ? Upon what
ground can he authorize a Canadian campaign, or sieze
a British fort or territory, and occupy it by right of
apturc; and conquest I am utterly at a loss to p4'rceive,'unless it be that the power to carry the war into
effect, gives every Incideutal power which the law of
natioas authoiizes and approves in a state of war. I
am at a loss to perceive how the powe- exists, to seize and
capture enemy's property which was without our territory at the commencement of the war, and not the power to sAze that whicb was within our territory at the
same period. Neither are expressly given nor denied
(except as to private armed ships,) and how can either be
assumed except as an incident of war, acknowledged
upon national and public principles ? [t may be suggested that the executive, ,as commander in chief of the
army and navy " has the power to make foreign conquests. But this is utterly inadmissible, if the light to
authorize captures resides as a substantive power in con-

FEBRUARY TERM 181.
gress, and does not follow as an incident of a declara- nowN
o.
tion of war: and certainly the ri;is of the -commander in chief" must be restrained to such acts as are Ad-U.STATEd
lowed by the laws. Besides, th, same difficulty mecis
us here as in the former case; if his powers, as colnmander in chief, authorize him to make captures without the territory, why not within the territory?
The acts respecting alien enemies and prisoners of
war, have ieen stipposed, even in a state of actual war,
to confer new powers on the executive. I cannot :;ccede
to the inference in the extent to which it is claimed. In
general, these acts may be deemed mere r-gilationi of
var, limiting and directing the discretion of the- ext'cutive; and it cannot be doubted that Congress had a perfect right to prescribe sucli regila ions. To regulate
the exercise of the rights of war as to enemies, does not,
however, imply th t such righis have not an independent existen. e. Bsides, it is cl -ar that the act respecting alieli enemies applies only to aliens resident within
the country; and not to the property of aliens, who are
notso resident. I might answer, in the same mann r. the
argument drawn from the act of 6th July 1812, ch. tQ9.
§ 4, and the act of 3d of March 181s, ch. 203.-But
even admitting that these acts did confi-r some new powers, still, as these powers do not resp-et tho present
case, I cannt consider them as 'affording even a legislative implication against the existence of the powers for
which I contend.
It has been supposed that my opinion assumes for its
basis the position, that modern usige constitutes a rule
which acts directly on the thing its,.lf by its own force,
and not through the sovereign power. Certainly I do
not admit this supposition. to be correct. My argument
proceeds upon tle"ground, that when the F-gislative
authority, to whom the right to declare war is confided,
has declared WYar in its most unlimited m:-nner, the executive authority, to whom the execution of the war is
confided, is.bound tfo carry it into i fl'ct. He has a discretion vested in him, as to the manner andextent; but
lie cannot lawfully transcend the rules of warfare established among civilized nat:ions. "He cannot lawfully
exercise powers or authorize proceedings which the civThe sovereignty
ilized world repudiates and disclaims.
20o
VOL. VHI

19,
B'Ro4
-p.
U.STATES.

SUPREME COURT U. S:

as to declaring war and limiting its effects, rests with
the legislature. The sovereignty, as to its execution,
rests with the president. If the legislature do not limit
the nature of the 'war, all the regulations and rights of
general war attach upon it. I do not, therefore, contend
that modern 9sage of nations constitutes a ruie acting
on enemies' property, so as to produce confiscation "of
itself, and not through the sover'eign power: on the contrary, I consider ehemies' property in no case whatsoever confiscated by the mere declaration of war,; it is
only liable to be confiscated at the discretion of,the sovereign poker having the conduct and exec.ution of the
waw. The modern usage of nations is resorted to merely as a limitation of this discretion, not as conferring
the authority to exercise it. The sovereignty to execute it is supposed already to exist in the president, by
the very terms of the cQnstitution: and'I would again
ask, if this general pbwer to confiscate enemies' property does not exist in the executive, to be exercised in
his discretion, how is it possible that lie can have authority to seize and confiscate any enemies' property
coming into the country since the' war, or found in the
enemies' territory ?-Yet I understood the opinion of
my brethren to proceed upon the tacit acknowledgement
that the exehutive may seize and confiscate such property., under the circumstances which I have stated.
On the whole, I am still of opinion that therjudgment
of ile Circuit Court was correctand ought to be afItis due, 'howevek, to myself to state, tbat, at the trial
in the Circuit Court; it was agreed that the timber had
always been afloat on tide waters; ad the affidavit by
which it is proved to have rested on land at low tide,
was not taken until after the hearing and decision of
the cause,
In the opinion which I have expressed I am authorized to state that I have the concurrence of one of my
brethren.

