FEBRUARY TERM 1814.,
SWAN,

CO.MM,

Contra.

The statute uses the definite article, " THE proprietor." OF

ALEN

The question is, -which proprietor? Scott or Preston ? ANDRI.
V.
We say it Ineans him who was proprietor when the tax
was laid, ind in whose name the land was assessed, and PRESTO4.
who was nquestionably lfable in the first instance. He -was "'the proprietor," -the defaulter" contemplated
by the legislature. If he was liable, did his liability
cease when he sold the land? or is h' still'liable? There
is nothing in the law to justify an itt_.. that the legislatore contemplated a succession of pr'oprietors who
should be successively liable.; a succession of debtors;
nor that they should be all liable at once; nor that the
corporation should have its choice out of. the several
successive proprietors. It suggests the idea of one proprietor only, and of one debtor, or defaulter'only ; and
if but one, it can be no other than. him who was confessedly liable; him who was proprietor' at the time of
the assespsnent. The tax is a lien ou the lot so far as
to authorize the Court to direct it to be leased out to
any one who will pay the taxes, in case the goods- anao
chattels of the debtor cannot be found.
The books of the assessor and collector are not matter of record. The purcliaser has 'no 'right to inspect
thenk. The, tax is a secret lien.
, February Wi....THB CouRT affirmed 't
j u~ejit,
without assigning their reasens.

PLEASANTS
V."

-8sa.
Fb

l2th.

THE MARYLAND INSURANCE COMPANY.

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the district of When a a
by
insured
Maryland in an action upon a policy of insurance, dated is
diverse
lolio* the 18th of May, 181t0, on the cargo ofthe brig cies,insomeor
Elizabeth from St. Petersburgh or Cronstadt to Phila- which therate
dela again.st
exchrnsoe
iS
a1t
whch
delpha,
against all risks, for 6,000 dollars, 6. ^&ahtho, fixed

SUPREME COURT U. S.
PLEASAK-Ts

the invoice ruble at 46 cents." The invoice amounted to
95,565 71 iubles, equal, at 46 cents per ruble, to
013,960 23.

'V.

MAR-X'D.

Before this policy was made the Plaintiff had effected
eight other policies in Philadelphia to the amount of
the
cost 36,900 dollars. In the first seven of these policies there
of prime
the cargo
of he c., was no vallation of the ruble; but in the eighth it was
ed; in ascer- valued at 40 cents. The Defendant, at the time of extaming the -ecuting this policy, had no knowledge of those affected
mount of the
interest of the in Philadelphia.
INS.

CO.

insured, upon
,settlement of
those policies
in whieh the

The vessel and cargo were captured by a Danish
The Plaintiff abandoned in due

vessel and condemned.

rate of ex- tine.
change is fixed, the whole
cargo is to be
ialued at that

The underwriters at Philadelphia paid.

But on set-

Iate of ex- tiement of the seven first policies, in which the vali of
change, with- the ruble was not fixed. and which insured 29,900 dolout reard tt lars, tile underwriters, in order to ascertain Whether the
change by Plaintiff's interest in the cargo amounted to the sum in.lwhh
the a- sured by those policies, iz. : 29,900 dollars, insisted
hue may hsave

beenascertaip, upon fixing tile value of the ruble at thirty-three and
ed in the other third cents.

a

pIe.

On gettleient of' the eighth policy, which valued the
ruble at forty cents, and which insured 7,000 dollars,
the calculation (in order to ascertain whether the Plaintiff had still a sufficient interest left to entitle him to receive the 7,000 dollars insured by that policy) was mIDe
by converting the whole amount of the invoice into dot;
lars at 40 cents per ruble, and deducting therefrom the
29,900 dollats received upon the seven preceding policies. By this mode of calculation it appears (according
to the statement in the bill of exceptions which, however, does not ueem to be accurate) that after the Plaintill' had received the 29,900 dollars insured by the seven
lirst policie4, and the F 7,000 insured by the eighth
policy, his remaining interest to be covered by the ninth
policy, was only 1,8t 71 rubles, equal, at 46 cents Der
ruble, to 682 dollars, 58 cents.
But if; on settlement of this last policy, the Plaintiff
Is, entitled to have the valub of his interest in the cargo
ascertained by converting the whole amount of the in-

FEBRUARY TERM 1814.
voice into dollars, at the rate of 46 cents per rtible, and
deducting therefrom the 36,900 do~lars covered by the
eight prior policies, then his reimining interest to be
covered by this policy would be more than the 6,000
dollars insured thereby.
The only question saved by the bill of exceptions at
the triaI below, was whether the Plaintiff should recover
according to the first or according to the latter mode of
calculation.
The Plaintiff contended for the latter, but the Court
over-ruled him. and, directed the jury that he was only
entitled to recover according to the former-thev found
a verdict accordingly : whereupon the Plaintiff brought
his writ of error.
The point was now submitted to the Court without
argument, by HARPER for the Plaintiff in error, and
JoNzs and PINKNEY for Defendant.
February 21st.....1ll the Judges being preset,
JOHNSON,

J, delivered the opinion of the Court ai

follows:
This is the case of an insurance on a voyage from
St. Petdrsburgh or Cronstadt to Philadelphia, effected
in the year 1810. The vessel was captured and the assured abandoned. The only difficulty arises on the
principles upon which the loss shall be adjusted.
Besides this policy, eight others were effected in
Philadelphia. In seven of them no valuation was attached to the ruble. In the eighth it was valued at 46
cents, and on this, which was the ninth in order, at'16
cents, In settling the seven first the ruble was estimated at thirty-three and a third cents, which was the'
receiv d value at Philadelphia. On the eighth it was
setiled at the stipulated value if" 40 cents. The value
of goods laden on board the ship was proved to be
9.,56 rubles. The sums paid on the eight first policies corresponded to the adjusted value of 91;081 rublesp
leaving a balance of, only 1,481: equal, at 46 cents, to
about 682 dollars inpaid. But if Aie whole amount Qf
"
VOL. VII

PLEASANTS

V.
MARY"D.
FV. Co.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
zn AsA ms
v.

the cargo bebrought into dollars at 46 cents to the ru.
ble, and the sum in dollars actually paid on the other
policies be deducted, there will still remain more unpaid
MARY'D. than Would exhaust the whole sum underwritten on the
mxs. Co. ninth policy.
On the part of the Defendant it is contended that the
compensation paid to the Plaintiff on the other policies,
is ab.olute ahd complete as to the corresponding amount
in rubles, leaving only i,48i unpaid. On the other
hand, the Plaintiff contends that the compensation was
only relative, and cannot affect his rights as between
.bimself-and this Defendant. And of this opinion is the
majority of the Court.
The object to be attained is, to secure to the assured
indemnity under all the advantages which he has
purchased of the insurers.
The intention of the parties, in attaching a fixed value to the ruble, appears in the order for insurance, to
wit: "sto distinguish between the paper and specie,
ruble."
. It is very well known that the ruble is the money of
account in Russia. ,It was originally a coin corresponding in value to the American dollar. But by the
forced circulation of a paper representative of the ruble,
dependent on nothing but mere national faith or national force for its value, the silver ruble has nominally
doubled or trebled itself in value. The astohishing and
rapid fluctuation in its value appears from the evidence
in this case, in which it is stated that in the year ii0
it varied from forty-eight to twenty-five cents.,
To secure the assured against the effects of this fluctuation, was the object of the parties in attaching a specific value to the ruble; and as the whole cargo would
b affect.d in value by this cause, and the policy was
upon the cargo generally, we are of opinion that no
other principle in calclating the loss would afford him
the indemnity stiuulated for in the policy.
The principle contended for b$r the Defendant is subject to this obvious objection that it. is not reciprocal.

FEBRUARY TERM 18i!.
Had the adjustment of the value of the ruble in the
other cases exceeded forty-six cents that adjustment
would not in any respect have resulted to his benefit.

iLEA.
sA'ri
V.
MARY D,

There is one difficulty of which the Court are fully i.xs. co.
aware, *hich is, that the interest assigned in the abandonment ifestimated in rubles will be inversely as the
rate at which the ruble is estimated, so that he who
pays most would acquire least. But in this &ase the
objection does not arise; as the Plaintiff by a compromise with the underwriters on some of the other policies has reserved a suflicient interest ii the subject of
abandonment, to meet the just claims of these underwriters. And in no case would this consideration create a difficulty as between the parties to a policy.
Among the underwriters alone in the distribution of tile
proceeds of the thing abandoned would it be necessary
to determine on the correct rule to be applied in such a
case.
Had the policy, which is the subject of this suit, been
a valved policy, and declared the value of t'e whole
cargo to be 9 43,929, the actual amount at the stipulated
valuation of the ruble, the same objection would have
presented itself, but certainly would not have availed to
prevent a recovery.
The judgment below must therefore be reversed and
!he case remanded.

M'CALL AND AL.
T.

MilE M1A1INE INSURANCE COMPANY

ERROR to the Circuit Court for the district of t a olicy in.
aryland.s
agaist
"unlawful arrcsts,

reso-

t,incs anddqby fl~tait~nments
This was an action on a poi-'y underwritten
•
ef

Detendants, upon all kinds of lawful goods and mer-,ii
king, rft
diandize, on board the ship Cordelia,.pn a voyage from ces,:".Ole
qldali
n to f
the Island of Teneriffe, t[o
Sur'abaya, and at anid from '11,,,af~l."

