SUPREME, COURT U. &
THE SALLY, PORTER,

a.
Propey
¢,1ii:fl illicit eiercvue
with the enery, to be con-

ASTEIR.

THIS was an appeal from the decree of the Cir.
cuit Court for the district of Massachusetts.
The facts of the case were a follow:

di,.ied to the
1, not to
eapto
tie U. States.
Ahe U.iat

The brig Sally, John Porter, master, was capturel
forfeiture un- by the privateer Jeffi-rson, John Kehew, cammander,
7, 1i81% asprize, and sent into the port of Salem,
der theUt"July
h
9uitic ftsf'
ar the United
stts is at- in the district of Massachus tts, for adjutdication. The
in the SalIy, at the time
$1.l,edmoegenleral*.
+L
ad of her capture, robad on board a coasoperation of ter's manitest, and a permi.,sion h.Ol the collector of the
the .o1w.si. port Af Passainaqaoddy,dated July 7, 181t. to prceed
The prize act
of 12th June, to Boston. From the manifiest, her cargo purported to
She had on
12. ,,preates b, one box of bones, and oue box of furs.
from the
V"o
a U. board. also, iiboittftn" thousand bushels of salt.
States to titm

VOttoi1, o1 !1l The Sally was licensed and enrolled for the coasting
trade, at N4w Londn,,Juaze 6, 1812, upon the oath of
rullypttlrehd

Ly
conniislriva. John Patterson, of the city of .,lew York, who swore that
sfioned
ts,,r,
,prize he was the agent of James .Mavor, of Alew _rork, the
I ar.

owner.

Pattersonwas on board at the time of capture. Upon
the return of the monition in the District Court, Palterson claimed the brig for XJavor, and Edzcard .Monroe
claimed the salt for himself and Lemiel 1'. Grosvenor, ot
Boston.
'he affidavit of claim of Monroe did not state where
the salt was taken on board, nor for what reason it was
not mentioned in the manifest.
Patterson, Porter, the master, and the crew, upon the
preparatory examiniations. sw,:re that the salt was put
on board the brig at Bobinstown and Eastport, in thp
Aistrict of Maine.
Among the papers found on board the Sally, was s
permission to land her cargo of 60 tons of cordagr and
50 bolts of duck, from the deputy e,,lector of the port
of Pa,aniaquoddy, datvd Jtnne 10, 1812.

FEBRUARY TERM im
TnE
There was also found on board, a letter te Messrs.
JMuroe and Grosverw,r Boston, dated Eastport, Juily 7, sALLY,
1812, signed -L. P.-. " covering a bill of lading of the PORT R,
salt. In this letter it is said, - I am soPry to say that MASTER.
lio clearance of the salt can be obtained on board the
brig; I bave however despatched her, with a clearance
of two small packages of John Brewer, consigned to us.
and leave you to manage; it will, at least, be as well as
the other goods sent-and I am hourly expecting a seizure to pay for sundry prizes taken fi'om St. rudrcws."
AgainA protection can be ha,, for any vessel bound
here with provisions, from the English admiral, &c."
St. Andrews is a small town in New Brunswick, a province belonging to Great Britain.

In the manifest of the Sally, the two small packages
above ,nenthmed are consigned to .llonroe and Grosveuor, Boston.
The captors produced witnesses in the District Court,
who proved that the Sally lisliargod at St. .qndrervs,
her car'o of corda-e, after the Ist July, 18l2,.and took
in there the salt.,
The vessel and cargo were condemned, in te District Court, to the captors. anl an appeal cr.ered by
the Claimants. In thc Circuit Court the decree was
affirmea, and Monroe and Grosvenor appealed to this
Court.
A claim wats interposed by the United States as fir a
forfeiture under the non-intercouse act.
On the above statement (and unon the argument in
the case of the Rapid, ante p. 1,55,) the case was subitted.
Tuesday, Afarch 15th. .Absent,...MTARSUAL,

Ch. J.

STORY, J. delivered the opinion of the Court.

This case cannot be distinguished from that of tlti
Rapid. It was there decided that propierty engaged
in an illicit intercourse with tli enemy, is liable to con-

SUPREME COURT U. S,
THE
SALLY,

PORTER,

fiscation 6s prize of war, and the only remaininKquestion now before us, is, to whom it shall be condemned.to the captoi s, or to the United States.

MASTER.

By the general law of prize. property engaged in an
illegal intercourse with the enemy, is deemed en,.my
property. It is of no consequence whether it belong to
an ally or to a citizen; the illegal traffic qtamlis it with
the hostile character, and attaches to it all the penal
consequences of enemy ownership. In conformity Nith
this rule, it has been solemnly adjudged, by the same
course of, decisions wlih has establishetl the illogality
of the intercourse, that the property engaged therein
must be condemned as prize to the captors, and not to
flie crown. This principle has been fully, rocognized
by sir William 9rott, in the .Telly, 1 Rob. ti9 ; and, in(leed, seems never to have admitted a serious doubt.
But a claim is mterposed by the United States, claiming a priority of right to the property in qu-stioi, upon
the ground of an antecedent forfeiture to the United
States, by a violation of the'non-intercourse act, (of
AMarch 1, 1809, vol. 9, p. Z16, § 5) the .goods having
been put on board at a British port. with an intent to
import the same into the United States.
We are all of opinion that this claim ought not to
prevail. The municipal forfeiture under the non-intercourse act, was absorbed in the more general operation
of the. law of war. The property or an en.my sepi)is
hardly to be within the purview of mere municipal rgulations; but is coufiscable under thejus geniun.
But even if the doctrine were otherwise, whirl %%e do
not admit, we are all satisfied that the prize act of 26th
Jjinc, 1N12, ch. 107, opL'rat, s as a,grant from the
United State's of all property rightfully captui-,d by
commissioned privateers, as prize of war. rThe ianguage of the 4th, 6th and :1th sections is decisive.
The decree of the Circuit Court, condemrnn the yes
sel ?tnd -cairgn to thw captors, is affirmed.

