SUPREME COURT U. S.
THE
Further proof is not admitted, and the sentence is afFRANCES, firmed.
(THOMP-

Wedestay, J.arch 16th.

soN & AL.

Absent....MAILSKALL,

Oh. J.

CLAI-

WASHINGTON, J. as to the opin;on of the Court on
the quiestion of lien, referred to the opini6n delivered in
MASTER. the case of the Frances, ( Irvin s claim, post. p.
)
which he said was precisely within the principle of tite
umrsent case.

MANTS,)

BOYER,

THE FRANCES, BoYE,

MASTER.

(Graham's claim.)

Where the
THIS case like the preceding, was an appeal from
afliditns P the dis:riot Court of Rhode Island: and the claim of
orler tuhf.r- ohn Graham, the Appellant, was to certain other goods
thor prnol arICy the satme sll-p. the Frances, captured and carried
'ostiv-but .
.
..Mher
iiii. into Rhode Island, as stated in tile case referred to,
gimllair,l
by the Yankee privateer.
e "Ofl-roduetiftn.,of let-

ters fentioncd
in _the atidaVit s, Oas cont

order O,

r-

titer prx)rf
will

•

T-TaRPEIt, for Clahian'.
L

PLNiNEY and DEXTER, for the Captors.

be allowed i
The material factthe .appellate
Court.
the argument on both

of the case, and the substance of
sides, are stated in the following
opinion of the Court,* delivered .March 12th, by
-ARSHALL,

Ch. ,.

John Graham, a merchant of New York, claimed
sundry parcels of goods shipped on board the Frances,
as his sole property.
The goods were shipped by William Graham and
brothers, merchants of .las~ow, on account anU risk
ef John Graham, merchant, of New York. There are
"L1VINGSTOXr,

. was absent when this opinion was delivered

FEBRUARY TERM 1811.
two bills of lading, each filled up with the name of John
TIn
Graham. There are also two invoices, each headed FIANC1&s,
with the name of William Graham and brothers as (oitru %%]
shippers, and stating the goods to be sbipped on account CLAIM.)
al risk of John Graham. The first of these invoices BoyLR,
is marked in the margin thus, W. G. 0 1. P. and tile MASTER.
other thus, [G.] There were also two lists of goods.
...
'Tlie first heaied, " List of goods shipped by tie Franceso
for N1ess-rs. John Graham & Co. New York." This
list is inarked" W. G V 1. P. The other is headed,
', List of goods shipiped by the Frances, for MAssrs.
Peter Graiam & Co. Philadelphia." These goods are
accompanied by two letters dated the 15th and 16th of
July, signed William Graham and brothers, the first
addressed to Messrs. Johh Graham & Co. and the lst
to Messra. Peter Grahani' & Co. The letter to John
Graliani & Co. treats of their trade generally, and contains only tile following allusion to this shipment: , You
, have herewith the ship Fanny's accounts, to which
-refer-also invoice of sundry goods per Frances" we hope they may go to a good market. We expet
,, you will have about one hundred packages of English
" goods. rhere will be somewhat more to Philadelphia."
-

The letter to Peter Graham_& Co. is also a general
letter on the subject of their trade. It contains the
following passage respecting the shipments by the Frances: , We have shipped by Frances a few goods well
" selected-we could not get almost any cluster seeds."
The Circuit Judge directed the cause- to stand for
further proof.
It appears from the affidavit of John Graham, that
in the month of January, in the year 1809, he entered
ihito a limited partnership with his brothers, William
Graham and Peter Graham, who, as well as himself,
are naturalized citizens of the United States. The business was to be conducted at New York by himself.
under the name of John Graham & Co.-at Philadelphia, by Peter Graham, under the name of Peter Gra
ham & Co..--and at Glasgow, by William Graham.
under the name of William Graham and brothers.
That, from tie coxamencement of the partnership, he has
been in the constant habit of carrying on extensive

SUPREME COURT U. S.
T1IMB

businesq, with the knowledge. of his partners, oil his

FRANCES, private account, and also in connexion witil othtrs.
(GRAHAN 's That the inwestuient and disposal of the funds of the

CLAIm)

EoBRE,
MASTER.

deptanent, together with the management of !h. inercantile concerits of the firms co)mp,)sd as aforesaid,

and the commissifn busitivss. were the principal if not
the s,.de business of William Graham and brothers at
Glasgow. Thac, from the intimate knowlede they possess,:d of each othrs aflairs. and in conseqn-.unce of tt~eir
connexion as brothers, the (jistinction between his firm
and his priva.e character was not v,1ways preserved. It
was the less attended to, because the affairs of the company ann his individual concerns were frequently the
subjects o, the same looter, and it became the miore usual
to address him by the style of the firm, because there

are several othei

persons of the same name in New

,York.
le adds, that in making shil)nrncs on the sole
account of the deponent, William Graham has been in
the habit of asso'ting the whole into invoices of small
quantties, calculated to suit the generality of pur,'hasers in the New York market, and also tlhat the goods in
any one of the said invoices niight be sold entire, or transshipped to Philadelphia or any other market, with the
original invoi . acompanying the same, as such original in-oice would inspire more cbnfidence in the buyers. This circuinstance occasioned the lists of property
,hiipled by the Frances, and one of them to be addressed
to Peter Graham and Co. He swears in the m,)st positive and prtcise terms, thlat the prop-rty is entirely his
own, and was purchased with his private fluds in the
hands of William Graham.
William Black deposes, that he has been long and intimately acqiuainted with John Graham, who is a man
of fortutne and character, and has been in the habit of
transacting much of his own business in the said Graham's counting house: That, from his knowledge of the
affairs of the said Graham, he verily believes that the
said Graham, both before aid since the war, has been
in the habit of doing business on 'As private account,
and has received many sliipmentg in which neithr of
his brothers were interestpd. lie has been concerned
with the deponent as part owner of vessels in wich the
deponent beli.vs that. neither William nor Peter Graham.ield any share.

FEBRUARY TERM 1814.
THE
Isaac Belt and David Dunham, merchants of New
York, swear to facts similar to those stated by William v A cEC ,
Black.
(GATU11,
(CLAIM,

Charles Graham, of a different family from the Clot- Imyonn,
miat, swears that in the ycar I Sit, there were, accord- .MASTFBR.
ing to the dispensars, six persns of the nane of John
Graham hi New York, one oIf w'toin was the deponents
father; and that mistakes were -frequentlymode respecting each other's letters which came through the
post-office.
William Hill, principal clerk of William Graham ntid
brothers, deposes to the difflerent concerns and to the
nature of the business transacted by William Grahain
and brothei s, as stated in the affidavit of John Gramam.
That they had tinder their care ships and vesqels in
which Johin firahvin alone was imtere.Mted. That since
an early period in the year 1811, the concern of William Graham an.1 brotfiers have not shipped any goods
whatever, for or on account of the said co-partnerslhip,
to either of their said establishments, or in any other
manner whatsoever. That v,.ssols contimted t6 arrive,
particularly the Trident. the Fonny, and the Ctuhta. to
the charge of the siid William Graham and brothers.
for he account and visk of Joln Gralam, in whi~h
ships and cargoes the said co-lpartIlersbip or the .aid
William Graham had no share, or interest whatsoever.
The depinent has seen sundry letters from the'said John
Graham to the said Villiam Graham and brotiers, to
iniest the monies a'ising from the freight and cargoes
ofthoge ships, in goods. in behalf of him, the' said Jolmn
Graham. so soon as tlme British orders in council shonld
be revoked ; and, until then, to place the amount to his
private credit in the books of William Graham and
brothers, uxhich was done by the deponent as clerk.
That this money was invested in t'.e goods shippel by
the Frances and other vcssels. which were shipped on
the sole account of John Graham, anti were so entered
on the books, by the intrumctions of William Graham.
lie states tle practice of dividing shipments ioto small
invoices, as is stated in the affidavit of John Grahgam.
Peter Graham swears tla he has not, andi never had,
any interest in the goods shipped by the Frances. That

SUPREME COURT U. S.
THE

r'RA cES,
(ORAI M '
CLAIM51,)
BOY ER,

MASTER.

John Graham has been in the habit of transacting busi
ness on his own account, with the knowledge of his
partniers, and has frequently comlsigned his separate

goods to Peter Graham & Co.
William N. Steele, clerk of Peter Graham, deposes
to the same facts; and founids his belief that Peter Graham had. no interest in the goods shipped by the Frances, on his ktiowledge of the business of the house.
Wiiliam Grabam states in detail, with great explicitness, the circumstances narrated in the affidavits of
John Graham and of William Hill, his principal clerk,
and avers most solemnly that tme goods shiplicd by the
Frances were the sole property of John Graham.
The Court below directed restitution of two thirds
of tie. cargo, as- bein. the property of John and JPeter
Graham, and condemned one thi d, a-s being the prperty
of William Graham. From this sentence of condenmalion .ohn Graham has appealed ; and from so much of
the sentence as directs a restitution of one third as the
property of Peter Graham, the captors have appealed.
It is certainly a rule in prize Courts dictated by g{:od
sense. and calculated to promote the purposes of justice,
that letters accompanying the cargo, written in good
faith, in the prosecution of a fair and honie t business,
s1ouhl( have great influence in ascertaining the. real
proprietors of it. The Ittters on board the Frances
are of this description. They are such as would be
written if the goods were really the property of' the
company; but such as could scarcel have been written
if tl.goods were the s:de 1)roperty of John Graham.
Had tley been his sole property, it must have happened
that son.e expression would have b1ien found in the letters indicating the fact. Men who write carelessly a'id
without design. may imot Ie very explicit ; but it rarely
happens that they entirely conceal the truth. There
,%ill be some allusion to it.
If the goods were the sale properly of John Graham,
wly ,'ddress a letter to Peter Gr~inma & Co. ? The affidavits a'count rationally enough for making up sqparate invoices" but adldressing a lette&' to Peter Graham

FEBRUARY TERM I8i4.

353

TIE
&'Co. at Philadelphia, by a vessel destined for New
Y-ork, has very much the appearance of a shipmpent (Ies- ,RANCEs
tined for the company at that place, and not fr John tOHlARAN
Graham, of New Yo h. The expressions of that letter CLA I.M,)
We have shipped you, by Fran- BOYt.'1i
favor the same idea.
These cannot well be -MAS'TER.
sdected."
vell
goo(ds
ces, a few
the goods of John Graham. The lan.;ma,- is surely
:uot such as would be used in that stale ol'things. - We
could not get aimst any ('luster seeds," These expressioms have a necessary reference to some letter of
orders from P tc r Graham, mentioning cluster seeds
animong the articles directed to be ship)ed.
'-

The affidavits produced on the ,z'dr for further
proof, are too positive to be disr.garded without consi(lerable relu'tance and hesitation. Th re are, however,
certain riles of (.vidence, the autiorith of which is ad'.
initted in all'Coui't-. One of dhese i§. that if a writteu
paper be re'frrrd to, which paper is in the l)oNer of the.
party, it ought to be produced. The affidavits of William Graham and of N il tam Hill slate ,-xpressly that
lett.rs had been received from Jolm Graham, directinlg
the (lisp .sitioni ofcargoes shipIed from A3neri:a on his
own acount, and ordering the procee!s to be invested
in Britisha ina-anuactures, also on his own account, so
soon as the Briish orders in council should be rep, aled.
Why are nt these letters l)roduced ? It is ifl)ssbhe notr
toperceive their necessity. Mr. Jihn Grahanm s have
copied these letters into his letter book. Why has he
not furnished some eviden, e of this fact. His letters
must have been answered by William Graham moro
explicitly than in that which was fund on board the
Frances. Why is n,) one of those letters produiced ? It
is imp,,ssible to account for the fact that no one of these
letters is an exhibit in the cause. The Cout feels itself
bound, judging on this evidence according to the ruals
of law, to consider the goods as the property of the
company. But it is urged, on the part of the Claimant,
that if permitted to give further proof, lie will prlduce
the correspondence and.such other proof as %'ill he entirely saiisfactory to the Court. Several ,ircnn,:stanres
exist iii this cause to induce the Court to allow sfill
further time for the production of such further evidence
as may place the transaction be,,ond any doubt. The
cause is ordered to stand for firther proof,
45
VOL. VIII.

