PEBRUARY TERM i814.
tion of the presidents instruction of the 28th of August,
1812. In giving this construction, therefore, we are
satisfied that we conform to the import of the language
of the instruction, and do not contravene any policy
avowed by the government itself.

THE

TIIOMAS
GIB
noNS,

noCiWELL,
MASTEI.

On the whole, we are of opinion that the decree of
the Circuit Court, dismissing the libel of -the captors,
ought to be affirmed, and that the cause should be remanded to the Circuit C3urt for further proceedings
as between the United States and the Claimants.

PRINCE -v. BARTLETT,

March

16tk

RRROR to the Supreme Judicial Court of 'Massachusetts, in an action of trover in which was involvcd In case of in.
the
the construction of the acts of congress, giving to Sthe solvency,
United States
United States a right of priority in payment of the debts r, not entidue by insolvent debtors.
fed to prlolty
£,f payment,
unless"
thc. itl.

The case was submitted to the Court without araCument, and is fully state4I in the opinion which was deliv-- lega
;ad
known insolered as follows, byiDuYALm, J.

fittc by some
noto~lou act of
the debtor
pursuant

The material facts upon the record are thc'se
On the 4th of June, 1810, sundry goods, wares and
merchandize, the property of Wellman and Ropes, were
attached by the deputy of Bailey Bartlett, sheriff of the
county of Essex, state of Massachusetts. by virtue of
certain writs of attachment sued out by several creditors of Wellman and Rolies.
On the 18th day of September, 1810. two several
executions issued on judgments recovered by the United
States against Wellman and Ropes, at the September
term, IS10, of the district Court held at Salem, on txeir
joint and several bond for duties at the custom house.
'ihe
actions in which these judgments in favor of the
United States were rendered, were first commenced on

lax,.

to

SUPREME 'COURT U. S.
rNcLNB

V.
IIARTLETT.

the

day of August, 1810; but no attachment of
property was made thereon -- on the i9th da of September |ollowing, to suits of attachment, in favor of
the United States, one against WdIVman and one against
Ropes, issued in due form of law, directed to the marshall of the district or his deputy returnable to the district Court to be held in December then next ensuing.
On the 11th of October,,in the same year, thegoods,
wares and merchandize beforementioned being in custody of Bartlett a sheriff of the county, and in a ntore
hired by him for thepurpose, Sprague, one of the Appellants, and d~puty of PI-ince, the marshal, after the
refusal of the sheriff -to open the store, forcibly broke
into it and seized, attached and conveyed away the property which bad been attached by the sheriff in thje mannei before stated, by virtue of the executions and writs
of attachment in behalf of the United States and disposed
of it in satisraction of the judgments.
Wellman and Ropes. continued in business until the
aforesaid 4-th day of June, and then failed ; and then were
and ever since have continued to be debtors unable to
pay their debts. Welrman has continued at his usual
place-of abode in Salem ever since:his-failure, and has
not ldr any whole day confined himself %%
ithit his house,
but has sometimes kept bi person within doors, and
had his doors fastened, and occasionally used other vigilance andl caution to avoid any arrest of his person
fbr two or three weeks next following the sai(I 4th day
of.Tune, b'ut has never hern arrested by any officer, or
puxsucd for that purpose : Ropes has always continued
at large in Salem, and has never confined or concealed
himself from is creditors at any time.
An action of trover was commenced by Bartlett, the
sheriff, for the property by him attached as aforesaid,
gainsf Prince and Sprague, who had thi s forcibly dispossessed him of it, in the Court of contmon pleas in
Essex county, where, upon trial, judgment was rendered in favor of the Defendants. An appeal was prayed
and granfted to the Supreme Jndicial Court of the commonwealth of Massachusetts, and at November term
A811, th bause came on to he tried upon the facts
before stated. Upon the pica of not gulty and issue,

FEBRUARY TERM 18iM
the counsel for Prince and Sprague insisted that the
several matters so alieged aud proved in evidence on
their part was sufficirnt to maintain the issue on their
part, and to bar the Plaintiff of ins action. This was
denied by the counsel for the Plaintiff, and the jurge
who sat on the trial delivered his opinion to the jbry,
that the several matters produced and proved on the
part of the Defendants, were not upon the whole case
sufficient to maintain the issue on. thf. part of the Delendants, and to bar tile Plaintiff of his actif,n. Al ith
this direction the jury finnd a verdict for the Plaintiff,
and S 10,240. 69 damages.
To this opinion of the Court an exception was taken
and the proceedings removed by writ of error to this
Court.
Tile sole question for wie consideration of this Court
is whether the priority to which the United States are
entitled by law, attaches in this case.
This priority is given by the 5th section of tile act
of the 3d of Marci, 1797. ch. 74 . It is also given by
the 6btli section of the collection law in the words following: 6,and in all cases of insolvency, or where any
estate in the hands of the excutors, administrators or
assigns shall be insufficient to pay all the debts due
from the deceased, the debt" or debts due to the United
States on any such bond or bonds shall he first satisfied."
In the same section the legislatuie explain their meaning of insolvency by declaring that it shall be deemed
to extend as well to cas-s in which a dlbtor, not havin.g
sufficient property to pay all Lis debts, shall have made
a voluntary assignment thereof, for the benefit of his
creditors, or in which the es ate and effects of an absconding, concealed or absent debtor, shall have beer/
attached by process of law, as to cases in which Aii act
of legal bankruptcy shall have been committed.
At present there iz no existing bankrupt law in the
United StAtes ; but in many of the states provision is
made by law for the relief of insolvent debtors. In the
act of cong-ress of the 4th of August.. 1790, the word
inzsolvencyj only is used. In the acts lately passed on
the same-subject the words insolvency and bankrumptcii
55
VOL. VITI.

PRINCE

IBARTLETT.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
PRINCE

V.

are both adopted and appear to be used as synonymous
terms.

EART-

LETr.

----

It is admitted that the property seized by the attachments and executions before stated was insufficient to
satisfy the several claims exhibited, and that Wellman
and Ropes were unable to pay their dbts, but it does
not appear that their propprty was attached as the effects of abconding. concealed or absent debtors ; nor
does it appear, or is it even alleged that they or either
of them have made a voluntary assignment of their property for the benefit of their credi'ors ; nor is it alleged
that eifhei' of them ihas committed an act of legal bankruptcy. It appears to be the true construction of the
act to confine it to the cass of insolvency specified by the
legislature. Insolvency must be understood to mean
a legal anti known insolven -y manifested by some notorious act of the debtor pursuant to law: not a vague
allegation, which, in adin-fing conflicting claims of the
United States and individuals, against debtors it would
be difficult to ascertain.
The property in question being in the possession of
the sheriff by virtue of legal process, before the issuing
the wiit on behalf of the United States, was bound to
satisF: the deht- for which it was taken ; and the rights
of tle individual creditors thus acquired could not be
defeated by tile process on the part of the United States
subsequently issued.
The Court is of opinion that priority does not atfacha
in this case, and that there is no error in the judgment
of the Supreme Judicial Court of the commonwealth of
Massachusetts.
Judgment affirmed.

THE ST. LAWRENCE, Wn,

MASTER.

THIS was an appeal from the sentence of the United
,0,ou"States Circuit Court for the district of New Hampshire

X vessel sail-

sng to an ene.

