SUPREME' COURT U. S.
ri,
Mr-

a single cent for his title, made a party Claimant: a
mode of Pro~eeding novel at least, and well cah ulated

PEHIATES.

to awaken suspicions not at all favorable to his preten-

- -----

sions. Whether a title to goods obtained in this way,
wo,.,Id, under any circumstances, be sustained by a
Court of prize, we will not say; but it is, in our opinion; sufficient reason, of itself, to refuse the party any
opportunity to make further proof. Mr. Bruen not
only doesnot pretend that he owned any- part.of these
goods at or previous to the time of capture, but merely
that he was the legal owner at the time of filiug his
claim; and upon the affidavits now laid before the
Court, as the-ground o an order for further proof, it
appears that this legal title was acquired'in the way already mentioned; that is by a number- of persons assigning to him a chose in action, which they must have
considered of no value, or, at any rate, not worth pur'shing." Such conduct can enotitle the party to no favor
or indulgence whatever. Upon the whole, the Court is
as well satisfied with the deciee of the Circuit Court,
as it is with the total insufficiency of the evidence in re.
serve to produce any alteration in, it.,
The application, therefore, tor firther proof is rejected, and the sentence of the Circuit Court affirmed witt
posts.

THE MARY, STAF'ORD, MASTER.

ease of vithdrawing fundsS
A

and further

THIS was an appeal from the sentence (ifthe United

States' Circuit Court for the district of Rhode Island.

prodf.

The following is a statement of the facts connected
with the case.
General Garret Visscher, alias Fisher, a native of the
state of New York, entered into the British army beforb
the revolution, and having obtained the rank of lieutenant general, died in England, rich, intestate, and without issue, leaving a large number of relatives citizens of
the state of New York, residing at or hear Albany. Mr.

FEBRUARY TERM 1814.
Nanning J. Visscher, one of the number, went to EnTHS
gland, and met with no obstruction in obtaining letters MARY#
of administration, and possessing himself of the estate to STAYFOlD,
the amount of i,0,000. sterling. In August, i812, he MASTER.
set himself in motion to return to the United States, and
did return, leaving Mr. Harman Visger. his agent, in
England, to transmit the property to the Upited States,
for the use of those concerned. Harman Visger, finding
that he could not remit to this country in the course of
exchange, without great loss, invested a large sum in
goods of the growth and manufacture of Great Britain,
and *totransmit a part of them to the United States, hired, on freight, the brig Mary, an American registered
vessel belonging to J. B. Kennedy of South Carolina.
The brig being at the port of London, was sent to Bristol, in July, 1812, to take on board this cargo. She arrived off that place, according to her loj-bgok, bn the
i3d of the same month., On the 30th, an embarge was
laid in England, on account of the war; and, on the 1st
of August, the custom house mark of stop was put on the
Mary. Having been detained, some time, by the embargo, she s:iled from BriStol, with the cargo on board, on
or about the 15th day of August, 1812, bound to New
York. Soon after she put to sea, she sprung a leak, aml,
on the 21st day of August, 1812, put intc Waterford, in
Ireland, to repair. Requiring a conplete repair, her
cargo was re.landed and stored in the King's store-houses, and she was repaired by the freighter, at an expense
of 17001, sterling; to secure which he took from the captain a bottomrv bond. On the- 7th of April, 18i3, the
Mary sailed from Vaterford.; having cleared out for
Newport, in Rhode Islandz in order to avoid the blockade
which was supposed to exist as to New York. Before
sailing, a British license of the description usually denominated a Sidmouth license, was obtained for her from
the king's privy council, by Mullet, Evans & Co. subj~cts of the king of Great Britain. The license ran in
their name, and purported to be a renewal of a similar
license granted on the 8th of July, 1812. She had no
license from the American government. On the 23d of
April, 1813, she was captured on the high seas, by the
A~merican privateer Paul Jones. and sent into. Newport
with a 'single priie master on board, the captain be ing
left in command of the vessel and in possession of the
,ship's papers. On her grrival at Newport, she was Ii

390

SUPREME COURT U.,S.

belied by the captors, as being and bearing enemy property, and also by the United States for a br-ach of the
STAFFORD,non-intercourse acts. The Claimants made application
t4ASTER. to the secretary of the treasury, and lie, under the act of
January 2, 1813, - directing the secretary of the treasury to remit fines, forfeitures and penalties, in certain
cases," re.mitted the for!eitures and penalties accruing
to the United States.
THr

MARY,

The brig's papers were regular, proving her to be an
America registered vessel.
The invoices and bill of lading stated her cargo to be
shipped byHarman Visger, on account of the heirs of
general Fisher, 6itizens of the United States, and consigned to Peter Remsen & Co. New York, to account
with Nanning J. Visscher, administrator, or with Barent Bleecker, Esq. of Albany, agent for the heirs. The
invoices were all dated 13th August, 181m. The bill of
lading had no date; but by its ireference to the invoices,
the shippers have given it the semblance of the same
date.
War was declared by the United States against Great
Britain on the 18th of June, 1812, and the fact was
known in London on the 26th of July, following; the
iiews was's ated on that day in thepublic gazette in London" to have b1en received in Liverpool on the 18th of
the same month.
The Claimant was in England when the Mary sailed,
and for some time after, and made nq attempt to coun.
terinand the voyage. Insurance was obtained in En.
gland, freight paid, as well as license and brokerage
money, and the exportation duties, before the Mary
sailed.
Thg brig and cargo were acquitted in the District
C6urt, but condemned in the Circuit Court; and from
tile decree of the 4att~r the Claimants appealed.
fToCKToN, for the Claimants.

It is contended, on the part of the Appellants,

FEBRUARY TERM 180.
1. That the cargo in question baying been purchased
by citizens of the United States, either before the war
was actually declared, or before that event was known
in England, and with the sole intent of transferring
American funds in England to the United States, the
Ehipment was no act of illegal trading with the enemy,
and no cause of forfeiture.

THE
MARY,

STAFFORDJ,
MASTER.

2. That the act of congress of 2id January, 18i3, authorizes this importation, and, by legal construction,
amounts to a licensp for this vessel and cargo.
3. That the circumstance of the vessel's sailhig with a
Sidmouth license, is no cause. of forfeiture.
-4. That the capture by the privateer was altogether
unwarranted by its commission, and expressly against
the instructions of the President of the United Stptes;
and therefore that the property ought to be restored with
damages and costs.
As to the first point, the withdrawing of funds, we
contend that a person found in a foreign country at thb
time of the breaking out of a war between that country and his own, has a right to do every thing necessary to enable -idw to rettrn to his own country with lis
effects. This doctrine is supported by weighty authorities, and is founded on prinelples of reason and justicep.
It is, besides, an act of sound p,diey in a nation to permit its own citizens to withdraw their funds from the
hostile country; it is taking from the enemy's means of
carr3 ing on the war and adding to its o~n. According
to the old rule on this subject, the withdrawing of funds
fro r the enemy's country was a matter of right ; but the
modern rule of the Court of Admiralty has determined
it to be a matter offavor merely. If it be a mAtter of favor, we conceive it is such a favor as both reason and policy would dire t, in a case like this, to be'granted. See I
Rob. 16, 195. The 0,4donna delle aracie.-C'hitty'slaw
of nations, 19, 2O..-. Rob. 191, e32. The Dree Gebroeders.-I Bos. 4- Pul. 315. Lell i" al. v. Gilsou.-I Rob.
181, 220. The Betty Cathcart.
2. As to the act of the 2d January, 1813, (laws U. S.
-ool. ii, p. 3-1.) This act amouts to a license from the

SUPREME COURT U. S.
'TMB

American government. The remission of the forfeitued
incurred by a violation of the non-intercourse laws, is to'
STAFFORD, be considered as legalizing voyages made under circumMASTER. stances like those of the present case. The act ought
to be liberally construed. It cannot be supposed that
the United States meant to remit the penalties accruing
to them for the violation of the non-intercourse laws, in
order to benefit the privateersncn : -- The remission was
intended exclusively' for the benefit of the owners;
"against'whose claim the legislature supposed the non-intercourse law to be the only bar.
*Axy,

Again, the act of 2d January, must have been known
in Ireland long before the Mary sailed from Waterford
for the United States. She may thorefire be considered as having sailed from that port under the faith of
this act, as she,had commenced her, voyage from Bristol between the periods specified therein.
The act Of 13th July, .813, relinquishing the claims
of the United States, &c. does not favor the claim of the
captors, inasmuch as it relinquishes only the property
of Britiihsuhkects, not captured in violation nf the instructions of the 28th'August. 1812; whereas the pro.
perty'in the present case, belonged to Americans.
The Mary sailed from Bristol, or, at all events, from
London, which is to be considered as the terininms a quo
of the voyage, in consequence of the repeal of the British
orders in council ; and is ther,4fore to be considered as
embraced in the president's instruction to privateers, of
28th August, 1812.
s. rhe Sidmouth license is no cause of condemnation, inasmuch as the original licence was obtained before the war was known in -Eugland, an the second
was merely a renewal or' the first. the British 'government conceivinp themselves bound, in honor and good
faith, to renew it.
There is no anaiogy between -the present case and
that of the JAlia, decided yesterday. In that case, the
license was granted, flagrante bello. idi
order to neutralize belligerent property. But here, the grafiting of trke
license was only an act of juStice, which the British government conceived themselves bound to perform.

FEBRUARY TERM 1814..
THL
The act of congress of July 6th, 1s12, (Laws U. S.
Vol. 11, P. 302, ยง 6) allows passports 'to be given for MARY,
the safe transpartation of any ship qr other property STAFFORb.
belonging to British sildects, and then in the United MASTER.
States. This is just what the British ,government have
dplid in the case of the Mary. The glianting of the license was merely a reciprocity of good offices on their
part.
But admitting this to be a case of sailing 'Under the
tag and pass of the enemy, still the vessel only, and
not the cargo, would be liable to condemnation. As to
this distinction between the ship and toods sailing under the enemy's flag, see Chitty's Lart oJ Xations, 'p 58.
5 Rob. 2, The Vrow Elizabeth.
4., This capture was illegal; being altogether unwarranted by the commission of the privateer, anddirectly
in the face of the president's instruction of 28th August,
This instruction prohibits the capture of c; ves181.
",sels belonging to citizens of the United States coming
1,r
'om British ports to the United States laden with
,,British merchandize, in consequence of the alleged
6c repeal of the British orders in council." These were
the precise circumstances of the vessel in question. The
capture was therefore illegal.
That the president had a right to issue the instruction under consideration, cannot admit of doubt. By
virtue of his olfice, lie is commander in chief of -the army and navy of the United States; and, as' such, has,
in time of war, the whole public armed force of the nation under his control. The privateers of the United
States constitute a part of thai public armed force. The
pre-sident was therefore authorized to issue this instruction. '2 Jlzuni, 355.
From the preceding considerations, we trust the
Court a.ill feel itself justified in reversing the sentence
of the Circuit Court.
J. WOODWARD,

contra.

If the character of the Malry was, prima facie, belligerent, she must be condemned. No latent equities

VOL. VII[.

60

SUPREME COURT U. S.
can save her. That such was her character, Appears
clearly from tile- examination in preparatorio;and a
.TAXFORD, vessel riust be acquitted or condemned generally, ac.
M.IsTER. cording as her character appears upon that examination. The license was for a British or .Omericancargo.
The 1resmnption is, that it was British. It was certainly British fabric. No American, orders had been
given for the goods. The whole appeared as British
property, and at the risk of British subjects. If a vessel sails under sfich circumstances, she sails at her
peril. 6 Rb. ,2i, The .4ldrianna. 5 Bob. 191. The Tobaio. 6 Rob. i3a.
THE

MARY,

But fdlittinx, for argument's sake, that the property is, as the Claimants contend, .4rnerican property,
still the transaction now under consideration Nias a
withdrawing of funds front the enemy's territory after
a full knowledge of the war, without the license of the
American government; and therefore subjected the property so withdrawn, to capture and condemnation as
oriie of war.
The property in question was certainly British long
afterthe knowledge of the war in England; and the
purcha' of it by, an American citizen in the tornritory
of the enemi-y was an illicit trade, which is, of itself,
cause off.ondemnation. That the property was British
for a c.,nbiderable time after the war was known in
En 'h,'ond, appears from the dates of the invoice, They
are- all dated 13th August, 18W"; from which circumstance (there being no bills of parcels) it is to be inferred, that the purchase of th6 goods was made on that
day ; wlheroas the war was known ih England, at all
events, on the 26ih of July preceding, and is stated to
haye ben.known in,Liverpool nn the 18th.
We contend; however,"that this property was British,
not only until the 13th of.Aug1st, the time of the purchase, but that it. is, at"this day, strictly British propeXtv tnder color of an'American name;
It doesnbt appear irom the record, that'the Mary
gailed from London to Bristol with a view t6 the prosecution of th6 voyajge to the United Stafes. But if she
did. there was an opportunity for countermanding the

FEBRUARY TERM isiM,

395".

voyage after it was known that war had been declared;
THU
and such countermand ouglit to have been given. li it mART 9
might have been, and was nt, the doctrine of putting STAFFORD
in motion does not apply fo the present case. The Clai- MASTER
mants were clearly in dehtcto, and no presumption can -be made in their favor.
This voyage was in violation of the ijou-intercorrae
laws of the United States; and on that grohund, alsoj
the pr3perty is liable to condemnation.
With regard te trading with the enemy, we contend
that not only the puchnase of hostile goods in the*enemy country, but also -the payment, in that country, of
freight, license and brokerage money, and of the e;portation duties, amoint to a trading with the enemy;
and that every trading \Nith the enemy is illegal.. 1 Rob.
165, 196. The Hoop. -"The Ji lfow J Iargarethq, cited in
the same case, p. 181, note, (-imr. Ed.) 4 Rob. 191, 222,
The.Dree Gebroeders. Several cases have been thought
to favor an opposite doctrine; but-the case now under
consideration (foes niot, we conceive, come within the
principle of any one of tfiem.
The first is the case of the Packet de Bilboa, 2 Rob.
111, i3.3. But lhere, the vesst I sailed before the war.
The Mary, on the contrary, sailed with full knowledge
of the war.
The next case is that of the .bby, 5 Rob. 251. The
same distinction exists here, as in the last mentioned
case.
The case of Bell T,. Gilson, I Bos. and Pug 345, has
been over-ruled in the case of Potts v. Bell and al. 8 T.
ft. 548.
As to the license, it does not appear tlat any was
graited on the 8th of July. The recital of such. an one
in the subsequent license, is no evidence, The license
in question, therefore, although it purports to be a renewal of a former one, is a license de novo,.obtained
with a full knowledge of the war; and is-therefore
cause of condemnation.

SUPREME COURT U. S.
THE

PIKEYr, in reply.

MARY,
STAFFORD,
This is neither a case of trade with the enemy, nor
MASTER, of doinicil. Visscher had not acquired a British cha---

racter by either of these means.

It is not a case of trading within the opinion of this
Court in the case of the Rapid. -Visscher, the present
Claiant, was not domiciled in England. Ile returned
to-the United States almost immediately upon hearing
of the war. He arrive(] long before the cargo. The
traisaction (ommenced and the goods in question were
purchased before the war was or could have been known
in England. No criminality can possibly be attached
to the transaction ; and therefore it c.nnot b6 a ground
of forfeiture. This is the language of the English decisions on this subject.
It is admitted, that if this enterprize had not been
undertaken before knowledge of the war, and if some
material part of it, had not benn ictually carried into
efflct-if it had been entirely a n'fw undertaking,-and
noi with the view of withdr-,wing funds, it would have
been a case within 'lie rule of the law of nations, which
prolibits trade with an enemy. But where the goods
have been purchas-d before the war, as livre, the case
neitleir comes within that rule, nor within the derisiois
of the English Court of admiralty. Sir W. Scott adIniis that such goods may be withdrawn. 5 Rob.' Ilt
The .Tuffrow Catharina.
But if the Court s*Iould be of opinion that this case
comes within the general rule prohibiting trade with
the enemy. still it will be recollected that that rule adinits of relaxation under peculiar circumstances ; and
we conceive that the circumstances of the present c:ise,
if of any,-will justify such relaxation. The putting into
Waterfot(d cannot, with any reason, be urged against
us. That was an act of necessity, and was no discon-.
tinuance of the voyage. No new trading with the enemy took place there.
As to the Sydmouth license: It has already been
ihown that the original license was obtained on the 8th
of July, a considerable time before information of the

FEBRUARY TERM iiI.
war reached England.

Howkver criminal, therefore,

tnz

the obtatiing'siuh a license in.ght have been in time of MARY,

known war, in a time of supposed peace it was perfect- STAFFORD
ly justifiable and innocent: it was also ab~solutely ne- MASTE I.
res4ar y in the present case; the adventure- could not
have proceeded without a license. The British go-Vernment was, in fact, bound to give it, by the universal cust in of nations. Every nation is under a similar obligafion. Our ow n government has authorized
the president to grant such licenses.
But it has been said, that thoug h the obtaining of tha
first license may be justified in this manner, yet the secorid, having been procured after knowledge of the war,
will not admit of the satie justification. Little need De
added to what has already been said on this point. The
second license was merely a renewal of the first: they
are both, indeed, to be considered, but one license.
The first having been granted. the second was required,
under the circumstances of this case, by the law of ntions; or, it not, it was, at any rate, required by good
faith. So the British government thought, and so they
is widely different from those of the
acted. This case
Julia.
Jurora and the
With regard to the president's instruction of 28th
August, we contend that the Ma-y comes within both
the letter and spirif of that instruction. Her national
character is clearly shown by her register and other
documnents: she is proved to lie owned by J. B. Kenne.
dy, of South Carolina. and it is clear that she sailed on
the faith of the repeal of the or(lers in council.
The power of the president to issue instructions to
the privateers of the United States, haq already been
considered. Congress has given him a two-fild power
over this part of the armed force of the nation, He' is
authorized to grant and to revoke their commissions,
But omne anajus contiiet if se misnus: he may therefore
grant with limitation, and be may revoke in part. In
iss,,ing the instructions in qliestion, li has (lone nothing
more than he had full power and authority to do.
Tuesday, March 15th.

lbsent....MARsHA~LL, Ch. X

TJhe Court made the following order:

SUPREME COURT U. S.
It is ordered that the Claimant nave leave to make
further proof, by affidavits, as to the following points:

THE
MARY,
STA'FORD,

MASTER.

1. As to his own citizenship.
2. As to the names of the heirs of general Fisher
whoare irterested in the property, the places of their
residence, and their national character.

3. As to the time when Mr. Nanning J. Visscher
went to England ; the objects which he had in view in
going thithler; how long ie resided there ; when the
cargo claimed by him was purchased ; and when he reT
turned to the Unit(d States. And,
4. As to the instructions which the Paul Jones had on
hoard'at the time of the capture of the Mary ; and particularly, whether the instructions of the president of
the 28th August, 1812, had been delivered to the captain, or had come to the knowledge of the raptain at
the time-of the capture; or whether the Paul Jones had
been in port after the 28th of August, 1812, and before
the capture.
It is further ordered, that the captors be also at liberty to make further proof as to these several, matters.

1814.
Feb.

15th.

TIE UNITED STATES
ov"

i96o BAGS OF COFFEE.

. Tsenf....WA5uHNGTON, J.
THIS was an appeal from the sentence of the
Circuit Court for the district of Maryland, which restored a quantity of coffee which had been seized and
uoni"the
course act of libelled for violating the non-intercourse act of March
Marc 1s,
1st, 1809, vol. 9, p. 243, ยง 4, L 5.
1800, tke
'flhcorfeTure
o1 'gods, for

place upon the

uornuiss1on of The Claimants in the Court below alleged, by way of
the ,feuce,ne
.i(? %61ds a plea, fhat the coffee was regularly entered and the duties

