SUPREME COURT U. S.
orms in another objection made by the Claimants, that this
.7osnrFn, vessel was on her way and near to an American port
SIRat the time she was captured. The right of the captor
GE ANT, to the property which he may seize as prize of war is
MASTER. derived under his commission, which is general and tin.--qualified as to place and circumstances, and not from
any peculiar merit which he may claim in any particular case. It is not for him to know whether a yesseI
which has offended against the law of nations, and is
apparently destined 1o a port of the United States, will
certainly enter the port: and certainly he is bound by
no law to forego the opprtuity which chance or his
own vigilance may have presented to him to acquire.
property which, under his commission, he is authorized
to appropriate to himself.
Decree affirmed.

THE VROTIUS, SHEIAFE, MASTER.
Question as to
the
vdity
oe
rapture
; 0ne0o

APPEAL from the sentence of the Circuit Court

r the district of Massachusetts.

nuanonly har-

og be a . hUt The Grotius, an American ship owned
bipris
phper Sheafe and Charles Coffin, the Claimants,
andthea'gatmuh

tionofthe.eigP
Potsmouth, New Hampshire, March

by Thomas

sailed from

2d, 1812, on a

sel being left voyage, according to the shipping paper, from Porteto the m-ster- mouth to one or more southern ports, and from thence
Further proof to
ope or more ports in Europe, and back to her port
orered.

of discharge in the United States, and to Portsmouth, if
required. She arrived at New York, and sailed from
thence with a cargo for St. Petersburg, and arrived at
Cronstadt on the l7th of l.une, 18i.
The cargo was
owned by American merthants, and wyas consigl-ned to a
house at St. Petersburg. The consignees furnished a
return cargo on the credit of the outward cargo. After
the return caigo was put on board, the French armies
having entered Russia and threatening to approach St.
.Petersburg, the consignees were appriihensive that their
security for the return cargo might be lost. They arrested the ship and cargo, and would not permit her to

FEBRUARY TERM 18i4.
depart, but an condition that she should proceed to
London with the cargo then on board, and that the captain should sign bills of lading to deliver the property
in London to the order of. the consignees ; they stipUlating that if they should have obtained payment from
the proceeds of the outward cargo, the bills of lading
should be given up to their owners or agents in London,
and the cargo then to be at the disposition of the captain.
The news of the war between the United States and
Great Britain having reached St. Petersburg, the American ships in that port, (fifty or sixty in number,) with
the knowledge and approbation of Mr. Adams, the
American minister at the Court of St. Petersburg, sailed for England withj British licenses. This was resorted to as the only course in which it was possible to
get home. The Grotius sailed, among others, ivith
such license. Owing to the lateness of, the s2ason, she
put into Carlscrona, Sweden, where she lay from the
28th if November, 1812, until the 25th of March, 1813.
On the 2d day of May following, she arrived at Lonuon,
and there discharged her cargo consistLi.g of irn, hemp
and cordage, and, on the 17th of JuLne followiig, dvpart
ed for the United States, in ballast. On the 29th of
July, she was captured by the privateer Frolic, John
ODiorne Fommander, who put one min on board of her
from tile Irivateer. The captain of the Groti'is kept
his papers and'the command of his ship, and navigatted
her to Boston. On her arrival, she was libelled in the
district Court of Massachusetts,
In this Court a question was made by the Claimants,
as to the fact of capture.
The master, in answer to the 2d interrogatory, swore
that he never considered the ship Grotius to have been
taken or seized as prize :-that he was present when
an armed schooner under English colors met with her#
the commander of which represented her to be a British
privateer called the Bream, and requested him to
take on board a man and treat him as a gentlepan until
he arrived in the Uhited States, to which lie consented.
Gilman, the mate, in answer to the 2d and Sd interrogatories, stated, that, until his arriva, he never kndw
58
VOL. VIIL,

THE
ROTIVUS
SHE.E,
MASTIM.

SUPREME COURT U. S
THit
that the Grotius had been taken as prize ;-that the masGRdrius. ter had been ordered on board the schooner, and rec
SHE iYE, turned with Fery, the man who had been taken on board
MASTER. the Grotius.

Chambers, a seaman, in answer to the 3d interrogatory, stated that the Grotius was met by an armed
schooner under English colors which obliged tim mate
of the ship to go on board her, and afterwards sent him
hack with a man wro, on the next day, declared himself
to be put on board as prize-master, saying that if they
should fall in witii a French vessels he should be obliged
to shew his conmission.
The affidavit of Very, the alleged prize-master, confirms the statement of the mate, that the captain was (,rdered on board the privateer, and that he, Very, was
directed by his commander, in presence of the captain
of the Grotius. to .go on board as prize-master; but that
the master of tle ship was to keep possession of the papers, and to navigatw her into port.
In the district Court the ship was condemned to the
Uniteil States. From this decree the captors and Claimants appealed.
In tlr Circuit Court the decree of the district Court
was affirmed, proforma, by consent of parties.
WEBST R, for the Claimants, contended,
1. That, in this case, the ship was not captured, only
one man having been put on board. That this case was
not. affected by the decision in the case of the sAlexander.
That acrpture, as we:l as the bringing the vessel into port
after the capture, must be the effect of power either actual or consghuotive. That the master of the ship did
not know of thA intention to capture, nor had lie any
idea that fiis vessel was captured. till long after the alleged prize master was put on board. That there was
no agreement to consider it as a capture. And, lastly,
that there was no bringingin.
2. That'the proceeding to London, unner the circumstances of this case, was not such a trading with the

FEBRUARY TERM i8i.

459

eneny as induced a forfeiture of the ship. That it . as *THE
an act justified by the necessity of the case, there being GROTIJSp"
no other %ay to get the ship home. That the master .SUEAFE,
was further justified in acting as lie did, by the advice MASTER.
of Mr. Adams, the minister at St. Petersburg, where the
ship was v hen the war was first known there. I Rob.
18-, 220, the Betty Cathca-t.
3. That the ship was not taken In delido-that there
was no trade with the enemy-that the master merely,
delivered the cargo in London-that the *voyage was
mot to be consldered as a continued voyage -from the
United States to Russia, from Russia to England, and
from Englamid to the United States, but merely as avoyage from Russia to London.
4. That the privateers of the United States had no
authority, either under the prize act or their com.- issions, to capture American vesst Is found in circumstances like those of the Grotius; that is t9 say, bound direct!y ti the United Stats, and within two or three
days sail of her destined port. T.at if she was to be
condemned at all, it must he as a droit of admiralty, not
as prize to the captors. That Irivateers claim under
a grant from the United States, and must be limited by
the exprss ternis of such grant, which ought to have a
fair construction, and cannot be suppc.,ed to extend to
cases where there is no risk, no trouble, n6 labor on the
part of the capti s. That the grant is to he considered
as a reward for their services. That if ii vessel is in
port, either voluntarily or by stress of weather, she is no
subject of capture.
PITIAN,

contra.forthe captors,

Contended, thatthe Grotius was liable to conlemnation
for having' sailed from Russia to England with a British license, after knomxlvdge of the war between Great
Britain and the United States, and \%1th contraband of
war on hoard ;-that the voyage was to be considered
a- one continued voyaie from Russia to the United
States ;-that the vess 1, therefore, if taken at any time
belore her arrivalbin the United States and in a place
of safety. must be considered as captured in delicto.
That the case was analogous to that of a vessel cqptured

SUPREME COURT. U S.
Tu
GROTIUS,
waEAFE,

MASTER.

while coming out of a blockaded port into which she had
pr0 Vi)Usly slipped b3 stealth. 1 Rob. 126, -450, the
Vrow Judith..-id. 72, 86, the Frederick .Motke. That
piysioal'force was not necessary to constitute captur;
that it had been so decided in the case of (1e AIexander;
and that, if any doubt exisied in the mind of the Court
with, regard to the capture, it was a c.,se for firther
proof. That t0e privateers of the-United States 'ere
authorized to capture even within the jurisdiction of the
United States.
DEXTER,

in renhl,

Uiged that although the master of the Grotius had
heard of the war, he.had also heard of the r peal of the
orders in council, and that an armistice was about t, be
agreed upon, if it had not already taken place ; that,
t!erefore, it was as if they had not heard of the war at
all. That, in order to ssibjecta vessel to condemnalion,
she must be captured in the prosecution of the voyage
in which she was g.ilty of the offi nce: that the Grotius'was not captured on that voyage : that the voyage
from Russia to England was to be considered as a distinct voyage, after the c..mph-tion of which the vessel
was not liabie to condemnation for any offcnce committed on that voyage. That even if the proceeds of the
cargo previously deposited in Englgnd had been on
board at the time of the capture, it would have been no
cause of condemnation. That when the cargo was depo t-d, the offence was deposited with it. Park. 239,
A.ner. Ed. I Rob., 193. -230, the lebeckah, note. 2 Br.
';'.
Law, 58.-id. 250.-id. 262.
Wfednesday. March 16th.

.Obsent....MARSALL. Ch. J.

WASINGTON, J. delivei'ed the opinion of the Court
in this rase, as follows -

This case differs in no material respertfrom that of
the Joseph, just decided, except that in this a qtiestion
arise.s as to the validity of the capure. The master of
the Grotius, in -inswer to the second standing interrogatory, swears that he bath never consideri'd the ship
to have been taken or se:zed as prize. That he was
present when an arm; d schooner under English colors
met with her, the commander of which represented her

FE13RTTARY TERM 1846.

461 ,

to be a British p7 ,valppr callkd the 1ream.- and requestTHE
ed him to take on board a nian, and treat him as a gin-, 4no'rins
tleman until he. arrived inthe'United Stfctps; tn which he Sl1nAra,
consented.. This tes'timwy of the captain is confirnied MtSTEP.
by Gilman, the mate, in answer to the 2d and 3d interrogat ries, whfo adds. that Very. the man who was put
on board, never condtcted as 'prize master,'-nor in any
other manner than a passenger would, doring the. voyage. Pierce, one of the seamen, who accompanied the.
captain on board the sctoonrr. sweai that he ncve
knew the ship was seized as prize iintil after her arrival'within the B,ston light-house. Chambers, another
seaman belonging to the Grotius, in answer to the third
interrogatory, sam s that she was met by an arovod
Schoofier under English colors whic-h obliged the majo
of the ship to go on' board her, and afterwards sent him
back with a man who, on the next day, declared himself
'to be- put on board as prize-master, sav'inix that if she

should fall in with a French vessel, he should be obliged
to show his commission.

That he jknows not upon what

pret-nce o. for what reason she was taken, not knowing,
in fact, that she was made prize of, uritil her arrival at
Boston.
Daniel J, Very, the alleged prize master, has deposed,
on oath, that he was present at tle capture of the Grotius by the Frolic; that the captain of the ship was ordered on board the sphooner with his papers; and that'
lie, Very, was directed by his comi-ander to go on board
as prize master, and this in the presence of the captain
of the Grotius; that the master of the ship was to keep
possession of the papers. and to navigate her into port.
That he accordingly went on board as prize master,
carrying with him a copy of the commission of the Frolic; and instructi-ns, in writing, -from the commander
to him (Very) as prize-master. That thb eaptain of
the. Groti .s informed his crew that in case a British
cruizer should board the Gratius, antl they should be
asked respecting the said Very, thej were to answer
that he was a passenger.
Without giving any opinion as to the regularity- ot
admitting l- affidavit of the prize master as a part of
the pi,; aratory evidence, the Court is of opinion that
the facts necessary for deciding upon the validity of the

SUPREME COURT U. S.
THE
UOTIUS,
SHEAFE,
MASTElI.

capture, are not sufficiently clear ; and that it will be
proper to make an order fQr further proof, to be furnished by the captors and the Claimants, with respect to all
the circumstances of the capture.
This point appears not to have been made or considered in the Court below.

1814.

ALEXANDER

AND

OTHERS

-v. PENDLETON.

THIS was an appeal from the Circuit Court for the

cleni., a Coturt district of Columbia, sitting at Alexandria, as a Court
of Equity will of Equity.
itnterpose to
quiet the title.
A purchaser
The case, as stated by MARSlIALL, Gi. J. in delivering
with notice is the opinion of the Court, was as follows
pr otected by
lis vendor's
wantadversary
bfnotice.
This su:t was brougit in the year 1806, in the Circuit
Au

Possessionyot

Court for the coiintv of Alexandria, for the pui'pse of

y-ears,
though with
knou ledge
of a betterttle, constittes
a gcxxd defmiice
sAainst that
title.
A purcbaser

quieting the title of Nathaniel Pendleton, the Plaintiff in
that Court, to 83 acres of land contiguous to the town of
d

Alexandria which have beim in his possession, and il
the p0ssessi,n of those under whom he claims, from the

year [732 tothe present time.

has a right to

Robert Alexandr, being seized of a large tract, on
part of which the tov,n of Alexandria now stands, on the

inh..s aooeosarr tpos . n
to the ostensibleadversary

thenia Alexander, his bond in tle penalty of 8001.

withoutnotice

17th of January in th year 1731-94 executed to Dade
Massey, then about to intermarry wit'. his daughter Par-

ith

his 1e.do,, so a condition that le would convey to his daughter Partieas to girhim- nia aid her heirs, on deniand, four hundred acrt's of land
ofthestatute lying on Potomac, "1beginning on the river side and
of liitmtions, from thence running to his back -line, making a long
square so as to have the same breadth on the river as
on the back line."

The marriage soon afterwards took effiect, and she was
put into possession of the land by the following bounds,
that is to say: " Beginning at the mouth of Goings gut,
on the river Potomac, and extending down the river so

