SUPREME COURT U. S.
itCAR- or legal responsibility of ownership; such was the case of
iuz.R
Hooe c' Co. v. GroTerinanin this Court, I Cr. 211. In the
v.
first case, the general fr'tighter is responsible for the (oncHEsA- duct of the master and mariners during the voyage; in
iE.tKE the lattercase, the responsibility rests on the general ownINS. co. er. On examining the charter-party in the present case,
there can be no doubt, from the terms and stipulations,
that it falls within the latter class of cases. The master, who was the general owner, retained the exclusive
possession, comnmand and managenment of the vessel,
and she was navigated at his expense during the voyage. The whole charter party, except the introductory
clause, sounds merely in covenant. The ownership
was not divested by the covenant of affreightmenr, and,
consequently, the master was incapable of committing
barratry. There iVas, then, no total loss on the second
count in the declaration.
The opinion of the Circuit Court on this exception
must be sustained. But there are other exceptions on
the record, in which' it is admitted by the parties that
the Circuit Court erred. The points intended to be
raised in these exceptions have, in efficct, being decided by this Court in Ca e and Richaud v. the Baltimore
Inmtrance Company, at Feb. term, 1813. For the errors in these exceptions the judgment must be reversed.
with directions to time Circuit Court to award a 'venire
facias de novo.

HALL v. LEIGH AND AL.

181t.
cb.

120.

lbsent .... WASHINGTON, J.

THIS case is so fully stated inthe opinion of the
of" Court that it is deemed unnecessary to add more than
thcrrlandize
conlsign
itt. that HARFE1i and PuNKNEY, for the Plahiff in error,
IftOr

joint

owners

merchant
sale, and for
n did

.

.,

not argue the case as there was no appearance for
tnd
th Defendants in error, but simply stated that they

each osw o e contended that the separate instructionis or each owner
moiety.; endifsevered the joint interest, and cited I, Esp. ii7, (Ind

wrate and va. Watson on rPartnershijp,233, 234.

FEBRUARY TERM 18M4.
Feb. 18th....LivlTGSTON,

.delivered the opinion of

the' Court as follows:

HATLL

V.
LEIGH.

This qtunse comes here on a writ of error to the Circoil Court of the United States, for the district of Ma- riant instruer latnd.

tions, each for
his own moicty, one of
the conors

Thi action was brought by the Plaintiff, who was
also P~laitif belowv, to recover the proceeds of one hIun- 'airtane
a sepanate action
dred bags of cotton Ahich had been shipped to the De-against
the
fendants, and by them sold on1commission.
consikgeefor a
iolation of hL

At the trial it appeared that the Plaintiff, together -tut ilwith William P.tt and Co. in 1807, maoe a joint shipment of two hiiudred bales of c tton- to the address of
the Defind'uts, iho resided at Liverpool, to make sale
thereof for their joitit belie fit. This cotton belonget, one
half to the Plaijntiff, and the other half to Will. Potts
and Co. The shipmpen %vasacconlianied by tMo letters
to the.Dek'ndartit, theone wrItten by the Plaiutiffbearing
date 11th February. 1807. in which aterriadvising t,.cm
ofthe shipment, lie adds, i,Mr. Poftts has written you on the
0'subject of his interest in this ad%enture, for myself
"I have to request that you will after covering me in
-cost and charges, make such disposition of my one
' half the shipment as your own judgment may think
,best for my interest."
The other letter was written by William Potts and
Co. and is dated 5th February. 1807, in which they also
advised the Defendants of the shipment which they say
is 6 ffir account of Mr. Hall and ourselves each one
half," and after directing what i3 to be doni ,with their
moiety, they observe that ,iunder present circunistances, Mr. Hall -will decline drawing on his proporti6n,
"as he xishe! you to avoid selling at the present prices
"as long as possible-we refer you to him for more
"particular directions."
In another letter of the 13th April, 1807, the Plain.
tiff directed the Defend-ants that, after effe~ting sales
of his half of the cotton, on the terms of his first letter,
' they should pass the nett proceeds of his proportion
to the credit of Messrs. W. Potts & Co. and furnish him

SUPREME COURT U. S.
hILL

v.
LEIGH.

with sales and account current as soon as possible, tr,
enable him to settle with those gentlemen here."

After the receipt of these letters, the Defendant on
the bth June, 1807, sold one hundred bags of the cotton

oli account of William Potts, and Co. at 17d. sterling
per pound, and immediately advised them thereof.
Tile Defendants afterwards, that is on the 31st December, 1807, had the remaining one hundred bags of cotsterling per pound, at which price
ton, valued at 1.d.
they took it to thezselves, and ca,.ried the amount to
the credit of William Potts, and Co. and on the 1st
March folo)iing, s)ld them at a higher price. ThePlaintiff thinking tle Defendant, guilty of a breach of orders, brought this actiop to recover damage, and on the
preceding evidence,'the Circuit Court was of opinion
that he could not separately maintain an action against
them, on which a verdict and judgment pasbed against
him.
Although the purchase of this cotton was on the joint
account of the Plaintiff, and of William Potts and Co.
yet as, in its shipment to the Defendants, their distinct
interests were not only disclosed, but as separate and
variant instructions were given as to the disposal of it,
and as, under these directions, the Defendants acted
throughout the whole. of their agency in this business, if
is not easy to perceive on what ground they now allege
that they can be liahle only in a joint action in the
names of 'the present Plaintiff, and of William Potts
and Co. B their own c6iiduct they have precluded
Tlhemselves from every objection of this nature, for they
have contracted, as to the one half of this property, with
the Plaintiff, and as to the other moiety, with William
Potts and Co. and it will be seen by a recurrence to the
testimony, not only that their engagements with these
parties are distinct, bat of different kinds. In selling the
proportion, of W. Potts and 'Co. they had a discretion,
but bver the other they had no right to sell for less than
cost and ch. rges. This Court therefore is of opinion
that thle action was well brought, and that the judgment of the Circuit Court was erroneous and must be
reversed.

