OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
273 U. S.

Counsel for Parties.

That capital of individuals thus seeking investment and
reinvestment in competition with the capital in national
banks is moneyed capital coming into competition with
the business of national banks within the meaning of
§ 5219 is the effect of our decision in FirstNational Bank
of Hartford v. City of Hartford, supra, and other cases
there considered.
Judgment affirmed.
GEORGETOWN NATIONAL BANK v. McFARLAND
ET AL.
ERROR

TO

THE

COURT

OF APPEALS
KENTUCKY.

OF THE

STATE

OF

No. 78. Argued December 13, 1926.-Decided March 21, 1927.
Upon the question of fact whether capital invested by individuals in
bonds and other securities, was so invested as to come in competition with national banks (Rev. Stats. § 5219), this Court will
accept the negative finding of the state court, where the evidence
is in some particulars conflicting and the finding is supported by
evidence and not certainly against the weight of evidence. P. 570.
So held where the evidence fell short of establishing that the
capital was employed substantially as in the loan and investment
features of banking in making investments by way of loan or discount or in notes, bonds, and other securities, with a view to sale
or repayment and reinvestment.
208 Ky. 7, affirmed.

ERROR to a judgment of the Court of Appeals of Kentucky which reversed a judgment for the plaintiff in a
suit to enjoin the sheriff and other taxing officials of Scott
County, Kentucky, from assessing or collecting taxes on
the shares of the Bank.
Mr. T. Kennedy Helm, with whom Messrs. J. Craig
Bradley, Edmund F. Trabue, Victor A. Bradley, James

GEORGETOWN BANK v. McFARLAND.
568

569

Opinion of the Court.

Bradley, and James W. Stites were on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. H. Church Ford, with whom Messrs. James B.
Finnell and W. S. Kelly were on the brief, for defendants
in error.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.

The plaintiff in error, a national banking asociation
located in Scott County, Kentucky, brought suit in the
circuit court of that county to enjoin defendants in error,
tax officials of the county, from assessing or collecting
taxes on the shares of stock of plaintiff in error on the
ground that the assessment and tax were at a higher rate
than that assessed on moneyed capital employed in competition with the business of national banks, and hence
prohibited by § 5219 of the Revised Statutes of the
United States. Judgment for the plaintiff was reversed
by the Court of Appeals of Kentucky. The case comes
here on writ of error and disposition of it may be made
upon the principles applied in First National Bank of
Hartford v. City of Hartford, ante, p. 548.
By § 4019a, sub-section 10 (Carroll Ky. Stat. 1922),
money in hand, notes, bonds and other credits,. whether
secured by mortgage, pledge or otherwise, or unsecured,
are subject to taxation for state purposes only at the rate
of forty cents per one hundred dollars. By § 4092 of the
same act, shares in national banks, state banks and trust
companies are placed in a separate class and made subject
both to the state tax at the forty-cent rate and to local
taxes as well. The statute thus discriminates in favor
of moneyed capital in the form of credits which are subject
only to the state tax.
Plaintiff in error, seeking to establish that the favored
capital was in competition with national banks, relied

570

OCTOBER TERM, 1026.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

principally upon the proof that there were substantial
amounts of capital invested in the state by individuals
in bonds, notes, accounts and mortgages, aggregating
approximately $1,500,000, which it is contended represents
moneyed capital in competition with national banks.
But plaintiff made no attempt to show that there were
other businesses or courses of investment in the state
employing moneyed capital in competition with its business or that of other national banks. The evidence with
respect to capital invested by individuals, taken as a
whole, falls short of establishing that the capital thus
used is employed substantially as in the loan and investment features of banking in making investments by way
of loan or discount or in notes, bonds and other securities, with a view to sale or repayment and reinvestment.
The Court of Appeals of Kentucky, following the state
practice, reviewed the evidence, concluding from it that
"no material part of the capital held by the individuals
is so invested as to come in competition with the national
banks."
The evidence is set forth in the record. In some particulars it is conflicting and the conflicts are such that
their resolution by the Court of Appeals should be
accepted by us. It cannot be said either that the finding
is without evidence to support it or that it certainly is
against the weight of the evidence. In the course of the
opinion the Court of Appeals gave more attention than
we think justified to the difference between short-time
and long-time loans and to the readiness with which the
banks obtain loans, notwithstanding the competition
alleged, but even after making due allowance for this we
think the finding should not be disturbed. It does not
depart from but gives effect to the principles announced
in the decision just made in FirstNational Bank of Hartford v. City of Hartford.
Affirmed.

