OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

MYERS v. INTERNATIONAL TRUST COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPERIOR COURT FOR THE COUNTY OF
SUFFOLK, STATE OF MASSACHUSETTS.

No. 122.

Argued January 12, 13, 1927.-Decided February 21, 1927.

1. In Massachusetts, a partner who indorses a firm note as an individual, incurs-in addition to the liability for the partnership debt
arising from his membership in the firm-a distinct and separate
liability arising by reason of his personal indorsement. P. 384.
2. A composition between a bankrupt partnership and the partnership creditors only, in respect only of the partnership debts, will
not discharge the partners as individuals from their separate obligations as endorsers of partnership notes. P. 383.
3. The fact that the holder of the notes was scheduled as a partnership creditor and received, as such, his proportion of the consideration deposited for the composition, did not enlarge the effect of the
composition so as to discharge the partners from their personal
liabilities as endorsers. P. 385.
252 Mass. 94, affirmed.
CERTIORARI (268 U. S. 686) to a decree of the Superior
Court for Suffolk County, entered pursuant to a rescript
from the Supreme Judicial Court.

Mr. Edward F. McClennen for the petitioners.
Mr. John R. Lazenby for the respondent.
MR. JUSTICE SANFORD delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This suit was brought by the International Trust Co.
in a Superior Court of Massachusetts against Samuel
A. Myers and Harry Myers, partners composing the firm
of S. A. & H. Myers, to hold them individually liable upon
certain notes that had been executed by the partnership,
in the firm name, for a partnership obligation, and endorsed by them personally. The defense was that the
individual liabilities of the defendants had been dis-

MYERS v. INTERNAT. TRUST CO.
380

Opinion of the Court.

charged by a composition in a prior proceeding in bankruptcy. The Superior Court sustained this defense, and
dismissed the plaintiff's bill. On appeal, the Supreme
Judicial Court-without entering judgment-directed the
Superior Court, by a rescript, to reverse its decree and
enter a decree for the plaintiff. 252 Mass. 94. The Superior Court, pursuant to the rescript, entered a decree
against the defendants in the respective amounts of their
individual obligations as indorsers upon the notes.' This
being, under the practice that was followed, 2 the final
decree in the case and not appealable, Boston, Petitioner,
223 Mass. 36, is to be regarded as the final decision of
the highest court of the State in which a decision could
be had; and the writ of certiorari was therefore properly
directed to the Superior Court. See Davis v. Cohen Co.,
268 U. S. 638, 639.
The Bankruptcy Act' provides, in so far as pertinent
here, that a partnership may be adjudged a bankrupt,
§ 5a; that a "bankrupt "-including, as defined by § la,
a person against whom an involuntary petition has been
filed--" may offer, either before or after adjudication,
terms of composition to his creditors," after filing "a
schedule of his property and the list of his creditors,"
§ 12a, as amended; that upon the confirmation of a composition the consideration shall be distributed as the judge
shall direct, § 12e; and that the confirmation "shall discharge the bankrupt from his debts," § 14c.
The proceedings in the prior bankruptcy case, shortly
stated,4 show that creditors of the firm of S. A. & H. Myers
filed an involuntary petition in bankruptcy, praying that
'These amounts differed, as one note was indorsed by only one of
the defendants.
'Gen. Laws, 1921, c. 211.
"30 Stat. 544, c. 541.
'These are set out at length in the opinion of the Supreme Judicial
Court, supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

it be adjudged a bankrupt. There was no prayer that
the partners be adjudged bankrupts individually. A
partnership schedule, signed and sworn to by the partners,
was filed, showing the partnership property and listing the
partnership creditors. In this the plaintiff's notes were
listed as unsecured debts of the partnership, with no statement that they were indorsed; and each of the partners
stated that he had no individual debts and no individual
assets that were not exempt. Thereafter, before any adjudication, the partners offered terms of composition, at
forty per cent., to the unsecured creditors. The consideration therefor was deposited in the court; the composition was confirmed; and the consideration distributed
among the partnership creditors. The plaintiff, as a creditor of the partnership listed in the schedule, received its
proportion of the consideration, which it credited on the
notes before bringing the present suit.
No offer of composition was made to the creditors of
the individual partners, who were not listed; no consideration was deposited for them; and none was received
by the plaintiff on account of the individual obligations
of the partners as indorsers on the notes.
We are not called upon to determine whether the discharge of the notes as debts of the partnership which
resulted from the confirmation of the composition, carried with it the discharge of the defendants, as partners,
from the liabilities on the notes as partnership debts
which arose from their membership in the firm.' The
Supreme Judicial Court predicated the liabilities of the
defendants solely on their personal indorsements, and the
'See Re Coe (C.'C. A.), 183 Fed. 745, 747; Abbott v. Anderson,
265 Ill. 285, 291; and Curlee Clothing Co. v. Hamm, 160 Ark. 483,
486. And compare, as to the effect of a discharge granted a partnership under § 14: Francis v. McNeal, 228 U. S. 695, 701; Re Bertenshaw (C. C. A.), 157 Fed. 363, 369; Homer v. Hamner (C. C. A.),
249 Fed. 134. 140; Armstrong v. Norris (C. C. A.), 247 Fed. 253, 255;
and Re Neyland & M'Keithen (D. C.), 184 Fed. 144, 151.

MYERS v. INTERNAT. TRUST CO.
380

Opinion of the Court.

decree was based on their respective liabilities as such
indorsers. And the sole question here presented is
whether the composition discharged them, as individuals,
from the obligations arising by reason of their indorsements.
This question must be answered in the light of the
principle stated by the Supreme Judicial Court, that a
"composition partakes of the nature of a contract." It is
settled by the decisions of this Court in Cumberland
Glass Co. v. DeWitt, 237 U. S. 447, 453, 454, and Nassau
Works v. Brightwood Co., 265 U. S. 269, 271, 273, 274,
that a composition is "a settlement of the bankrupt with
his creditors "-in a measure superseding and outside of
the bankruptcy proceedings-which originates in a voluntary offer by the bankrupt, and results, in the main, from
voluntary acceptance by his creditors; that the respective
rights of the bankrupt and the creditors are fixed by the
terms of the offer; and that upon the confirmation of the
composition they get what they "bargained for," and no
more. And see: Re Coe (C. C. A.) 183 Fed. 745, 747; Re
Adler (D. C.) 103 Fed. 444, 446; Re Lane, (D. C.) 125
Fed. 772, 773.
Here the partnership, being proceeded against as a distinct legal entity, Meek v. Centre County Banking Co.,
268 U. S. 426, 431, could offer terms of composition to its
creditors under § 12a, after filing a schedule of its property and a list of its creditors. It filed such a schedule and
list. And-although the District Court in Massachusetts
had always refused to adjudge the bankruptcy of a partnership unless the partners were also adjudged bankrupts,
Re Forbes (D. C.), 128 Fed. 137, 140,6 and doubtless
'We need not determine here whether the adjudication of the
bankruptcy of a partnership involves an adjudication of the bankruptcy of the individual partners. See Francisv. McNeal, supra,701;
Liberty Nat'l Bank v. Bear, 265 U. S. 365, 368; Meek v. Centre
County Banking Co., supra, 432.

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

would have permitted the terms of composition to be
offered to the creditors of the partners as well as to the
creditors of the partnership-we think it clear that, read
in the light of the schedule, the offer of the terms of composition was made only to the partnership creditors listed
in the schedule, for whom the required consideration was
deposited, and not to the creditors of the individual partners, who were not listed and for whom no consideration
was deposited; in short, that the" bargain "wa,%made only
with the partnership creditors and in respect to the partnership debts. The necessary result is that the confirmation of the composition merely discharged the partnership
debts, and did not discharge the separate debts of the
partners to their individual creditors, who were offered
and received no consideration for such release.
That, as was said by the Supreme Judicial Court, the
indorsements of the notes by the defendants "created individual obligations, separate and distinct from the firm
obligations," is clear; it being well settled in Massachusetts
that a partner who indorses a firm note as an individual,
incurs-in addition to the liability for the partnership
debt arising from his membership in the firm-a distinct
and separate liability arising by reason of his personal indorsement. Roger Williams Nat. Bank v. Hall, 160 Mass.
171; FaneuilHall Nat. Bank v. Meloon, 183 Mass. 66, 67;
Fourth Nat. Bank v. Mead, 216 Mass. 521, 523. As was
said in the Meloon case, the defendants "were none the
less indorsers and none the less liable as such because they
were also liable as members of the firm which made the
note." And see Robinson v. Seaboard Nat. Bank (C. C.
A.), 247 Fed. 1007, 1008; Matter of Peck, 206 N. Y. 55,
60; and Wilder v. Keeler, 3 Paige (N. Y.) 167, 176.
It also results, from the very nature of a composition,
that where the terms offered and accepted go merely to the
discharge of the maker of a note, its confirmation does not
release an indorser from his separate liability for which no

MYERS v. INTERNAT. TRUST CO.
380

Opinion of the Court.

"bargain " was made. See Easton Furn. Mfg. Co. v.
Caminez (N. Y.), 146 App. Div. 436, 438; Silverman v.
Rubenstein, 162 N. Y. S. 733, 735; Bromberg v. Self, 16
Ala. App. 627, 628; and Guild v. Butler, 122 Mass. 498,
500.
Nor do we think that the effect of the composition of the
partnership debts was enlarged so as to include the discharge of the defendants from their personal liabilities as
indorsers, by the fact that the plaintiff was scheduled as a
partnership creditor and received, as such, its proportion
of the consideration deposited. The Supreme Judicial
Court rightly said that the plaintiff was a party to the
composition "only to the extent in which its claim against
the partnership was concerned; it was not recognized as an
individual creditor; no offer was made to it as the holder
of a claim against the individuals. In this respect it was
a stranger to the offer; it stood as any other individual
creditor whose demand was not listed, to whom no offer
of coinpromise was made and who entered into no bargain
with the defendants."
We conclude that the composition did not discharge the
defendants from their individual and personal obligations
as indorsers upon the notes. And the decree, which merely
enforced their liabilities as such indorsers, must therefore be
42847'-27-25

Affirmed.

