JAMES-DICKINSON CO. v. HARRY.
113

Syllabus.

ing that the lessor's right to an oil lease royalty, although
not specifically mentioned, is embraced in a conveyance
of the land by the lessor, so that upon the subdivision of
the land, the respective grantees acquire the right to the
royalty in all oil produced on the granted land. Compare the decision of the Texas courts in Jones v. O'Brien,
251 S. W. 208; O'Brien v. Jones, 274 S. W. 242, for the
application of the statute of frauds to sales of the lessor's
interest in leased lands. See also United States v. Noble,
237 U. S. 74, 80; Barnsdall v. Bradford Gas Co., 225 Pa.
St. 338, 343.
Judgment affirmed.
JAMES-DICKINSON FARM MORTGAGE
PANY ET AL. v. HARRY.

COM-

ERROR TO THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 40.

Submitted November 29, 1926.-Decided January 10, 1927.

1. Jurisdiction over a corporation of one State cannot be acquired
in another State in which it has no place of business and is not
found, merely by serving process upon an executive officer temporarily therein, even if he be there on business of the company.
P. 122.
2. By common law, and under the Texas statute here involved (Comp.
Stat. 1920, Title 62, Arts. a-c,) the liability of one who, personally
or through agents, knowingly makes false statements with intent
that another shall act upon them, does not depend upon the receipt
of any benefit by himself. P. 122.
3. A statute making actionable as a fraud a false promise of future
action, by which the other party is induced to enter into a contract,
is within state power and not a violation of due process. P. 123.
4. A State constitutionally may make proof of one fact presumptive
evidence of another rationally connected with it, and may shift the
burden of proof. P. 124.
5. A state statute defining liability and regulating procedure in cases
of fraud in transactions involving purchase of real estate or of
stock in a corporation or joint stock company, does not violate the
equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment in not embracing other frauds. P. 125.

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

6. The fact that a state statute defining special classes of frauds
allows recovery of exemplary damages up to twice the actual
damages does not make it a penal law; and a cause of action arising
under it may be enforced in a federal court in another State where,
though there be no statute of similar import, there is no public
policy against it. So held of a statute adding no extraordinary
feature to the common law liability for fraudulent misrepresentations, and in the absence of any showing that substantial justice
between the parties could not be done consistently with the procedure and practice of the federal courts in the second State. P. 125.
Reversed in part, affirmed in part.

to a judgment in the District Court, in Illinois,
on a verdict for the plaintiff, in an action for common law
and statutory frauds committed in Texas in a sale of
lands.
ERROR

Mr. George F. Rearick for the plaintiffs in error, submitted.
Mr. William M. Acton, with whom Mr. Walter T.
Gunn was on the brief, for the defendant in error, submitted.
MR. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This action was commenced in an Illinois court by
Mrs. Harry, a citizen of that State, against Dickinson,
a citizen of Texas, and James-Dickinson Farm Mortgage
Company, a Missouri corporation. The defendants removed the case to the federal court on the ground of
diversity of citizenship. Dickinson, who had been served
personally within Illinois, pleaded to the merits. The
Company, upon whom service had been made by reading
and delivering the summons to Dickinson, "as its president," while he was temporarily in Illinois, challenged
the jurisdiction of the court over it. This objection was
overruled; and it also filed pleas to the merits. The
case was then tried, as against both defendants, before a

JAMES-DICKINSON CO. v. HARRY.
119

Opinion of the Court.

jury; the plaintiff got a verdict; and judgment was entered thereon. Because of a claim that rights guaranteed
by the Fourteenth Amendment had been denied them, a
direct writ of error was allowed under ยง 238 of the Judicial
Code, before the amendment of February 13, 1925.
The action is in tort to recover damages resulting from
false representations by which the plaintiff was induced
to purchase while in Texas a tract of land located there.
The declaration contains two counts, the first based on
the common law liability, the second on a statute of that
State. Act of March 11, 1919, c. 43, General Laws, p. 77;
Compl. Stat. Tex. 1920, Title 62, Articles 3973, a, b, c,
p. 639. Dickinson was vice-president and treasurer of
the defendant corporation and also of two other allied
corporations. He together with James, the president of
the corporations, owned 90 per cent. of their stock. It
was charged that these corporations were the instruments
through which the fraudulent scheme was carried out.
The device employed in effecting the sale was the taking
of the plaintiff and other alleged victims from the North
in mid-winter by a special Pullman from Kansas City to
Brownsville, near which the land lies, and securing signatures from all on the spot. There was evidence to show
that the people in charge of the party made materially
false statements concerning the quality of the land sold.
Dickinson did not then talk personally with the plaintiff.
But he was present on the occasion; heard the false statements then made; took direct part in sales then made;
and later personally induced the plaintiff to anticipate
the payment on notes given as part of the purchase
price.
In the course of the trial a multitude of requests for
rulings made by the defendants were denied. Many other
rulings to which they objected were given. Exceptions
were duly taken. As the case is properly here on constitutional grounds, the jurisdiction of this Court extends

122

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

to a review of all questions. Chaloner v. Sherman, 242
U. S. 455, 457. All have been considered. Only a few
require discussion.
First. The objection to the jurisdiction over the corporation was taken by a plea in abatement. The decision
thereon was made upon a demurrer to the replication.
By these pleadings it was admitted that the residence and
principal place of business of the corporation was in Missouri; that it had never been a resident of Illinois; that
Dickinson, its president, was in Illinois on business of the
corporation at the time of the service; but that it had not
engaged in, or carried on, business within the State.
Jurisdiction over a corporation of one State cannot be
acquired in another State or district in which it has no
place of business and is not found, merely by serving
process upon an executive officer temporarily therein,
even if he is there on business of the company. Philadelphia & Reading Ry. Co. v. McKibbin, 243 U. S. 264;
Rosenberg Bros. v. Curtis Brown Co., 260 U. S. 516;
Bank of America v. Whitney Central National Bank,
261 U. S. 171; Lumiere v. Wilder, 261 U. S. 174, 177.
The objection to the jurisdiction over the corporation
should have been sustained. As it was not waived by
the later proceeding in the case, the judgment against
this defendant is reversed with directions to dismiss the
action as to it. This reversal does not require that the
judgment be reversed also as to Dickinson. Compare
Camp v. Gress, 250 U. S. 308, 317.
Second. It is contended, on several grounds, that the
statute violates the due process clause. One ground is
that the statute includes among the persons jointly and
severally liable for the actual damages "all persons deriving the benefit of said fraud." This provision is said
to be unconstitutional. The argument is that thereby the
State undertakes to fix a liability for damages regardless
of participation in the wrong, so that where a corporation

JAMES-DICKINSON CO. v. HARRY.
119

Opinion of the Court.

has received the money arising from a fraudulent sale,
every stockholder becomes liable for the tort; and that by
making the liability joint and several, the statute makes
one person liable for the wrong of another, although there
was neither participation in nor ratification of it, nor even
knowledge. At common law every member of a partnership is subject to such a liability, Strang v. Bradner, 114
U. S. 555; McIntyre v. Kavanaugh, 242 U. S. 138, 139;
and often stockholders of corporations are made similarly
liable by statute. Compare Thomas v. Matthiessen, 232
U. S. 221, 235; Buttner v. Adams, 236 Fed. 105. The case
presented by the pleadings and the evidence, so far as
Dickinson is concerned, is, however, a very different one
from that suggested. He is not sued as stockholder; and
the count on the Texas statute does not charge him with
full liability for the loss suffered, because as stockholder he
received some benefit. It charges specifically that "the
defendants, and each of them, derived the benefit of the
fraud and deceit." And their liability is sought to be
enforced primarily because "they represented themselves
to the plaintiff to be the owners" of the large tract of
land; and cheated her "through their authorized agents."
If Dickinson, either personally or through agents, made
knowingly false statements with intent that the plaintiff
should act upon them, his liability, either at common law
or under the statute, would not depend upon the receipt
of any benefit by him. See Nevada Bank v. PortlandNat.
Bank, 59 Fed. 338; Hindman v. First Nat. Bank, 112 Fed.
931, 944-945; Goldsmith v. Koopman, 140 Fed. 616, 621;
Talcott v. Friend, 179 Fed. 676, 680. There was in the
evidence ample support for a finding of such
deception.
Another contention is that the statute violates the due
process clause in providing that actionable fraud shall
exist not only when there is "a false representation of a
past or existing material fact," but also if there is a "false

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

promise to do some act in the future which is made as a
material inducement to another party to enter into a
contract and but for which promise said party would not
have entered into said contract, . . ." The contention is groundless. To modify the substantive and procedural law so that recovery may be had in tort for a
breach of contract, is well within the power of a State.
An action for deceit was long the sole remedy for a breach
of warranty, and it still lies in some jurisdictions. See
F. L. GrantShoe Co. v. Laird, 212 U. S. 445, 449; Nash v.
Minn. Ins. & Trust Co., 163 Mass. 574, 587; Carter v.
Glass, 44 Mich. 154. Recovery in contract on a tort that
is waived is common. See Crawford v. Burke, 195 U. S.
176, 194. Here, moreover, no such change is brought
about by the statute. Some courts have long recognized
that a false promise is a species of false representation
for which there is remedy in tort, Church v. Swetland, 243
Fed. 289, 294-295; Wright v. Barnard,248 Fed. 756, 775;
as, for instance, where goods are obtained on credit by a
purchaser who does not intend to pay for them. See
Burrill v. Stevens, 73 Me. 395; Stewart v. Emerson, 52
N. H. 301.
It is also contended that the statute violates the due
process clause by providing that whenever a promise thus
made has not been complied with by the party making it
within a reasonable time, "it shall be presumed that it
was falsely and fraudulently made, and the burden shall
be on the party making it to show that it was made in
good faith but was prevented from complying therewith
by the Act of God, the public enemy or by some equitable
reason." This contention also is groundless. It is well
settled that a State may consider proof of one fact presumptive evidence of another, if there is a rational connection between them, Hawes v. Georgia, 258 U. S. 1,
4, and also that it may change the burden of proof, Minn.
& St. L. R. R. Co. v. Minnesota, 193 U. S.53. Moreover,

JAMES-DICKINSON CO. v. HARRY.
119

Opinion of the Court.

the lower court gave no charge based upon this provision
of the statute. And it is at least doubtful whether this
provision should be construed as applying to actions
brought outside Texas.'
Third. It is claimed that the Texas statute violates the
equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment
because it applies only to fraud in transactions involving
the purchase of real estate or of stock in a corporation or
joint stock company. The contention is clearly unfounded. A statute does not violate the equal protection
clause merely because it is not all-embracing. Zucht v.
King, 260 U. S. 174, 177. A State may direct its legislation against what it deems an existing evil, without covering the whole field of possible abuses. Farmers &
Merchants Bank v. Federal Reserve Bank, 262 U. S. 649,
661. The occasion of the legislation is indicated by the
urgency provision of the statute which recites "that there
are now in this state a number of fraudulent land schemes
and that a great number of citizens of this State have
been defrauded thereby."
Fourth. It is urged that a federal court for Illinois
should not enforce the liability under the Texas statute,
because Illinois has not enacted a statute of similar import. The general rule is that one State will enforce a
cause of action arising under the laws of another; that a
federal court of any district will enforce a cause of action
arising under the law of any State; but that ordinarily the
courts of one government will not enforce the penal laws
of another. The argument is that the Texas statute is a
penal law, because it provides: "All persons knowingly
'See Pritchardv. Norton, 106 U. S. 124, 129-136; Richmond & D.
R. R. Co. v. Mitchell, 92 Ga. 77; Chicago T. T. R. R. Co. v. Vandenberg, 164 Ind. 470; Jones v. C. St. P. M. & 0. Ry. Co., 80 Minn. 488,
490-491; Pennsylvania Co. v. McCann, 54 Ohio St. 10, 17-18. Compare Hoadley v. Northern Transp. Co., 115 Mass. 304; but see Hartmann v. Louisville & N. Ry. Co., 39 Mo. App. 88, 98-101.

126

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Statement of the Case.

273 U.S.

and willfully making such false representations or
promises or knowingly taking advantage of said fraud
shall be liable in exemplary damages to the person defrauded in such amount as shall be assessed by the jury
not to exceed double the amount of the actual damages
suffered." Exemplary damages are recoverable at common law in many States. A statute providing for their
recovery by and for the injured party is not a penal law.
Huntington v. Attrill, 146 U. S. 657, 666-683. Compare
Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. v. Nichols, 264 U. S.348, 350351. No reason appears why the cause of action arising
under the Texas statute should not be enforced in Illinois.
The Texas statute as applied in this case does not add
any extraordinary feature to the common law liability for
fraudulent representations. There is nothing in the
public policy of Illinois with which the statutory cause
of action is inconsistent. It is not shown that substantial
justice between the parties cannot be done consistently
with the forms of procedure and the practice of the federal
courts for Illinois.
Reversed as to James-Dickinson Farm Mortgage Co.
Affirmed as to A. D. Dickinson.
MISSOURI, EX REL. WABASH RAILWAY COMPANY
v. PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF MISSOURI.

No. 69. Argued December 10, 1926.-Decided January 10, 1927.
Upon review of a judgment of a state court, this Court has jurisdiction to decide questions of state law concerning the construction,
and effect on the case, of a state statute enacted since the decision
below was made; or it may refer such questions to the state court
by reversing and remanding the case. P. 130.
306 Mo. 149, reversed.

ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Missouri which sustained an order of the Public Service Corn-

