SHIELDS v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

SHIELDS v. UNITED STATES.
ON PETITION FOR A WRIT OF CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT
COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 944.

Petition submitted March 21, 1927.-Decided April11, 1927.

1. Where a respondent to a petition for certiorari advises the Court
that he can find no ground for opposition, and, therefore, will file
no opposing brief and, if the writ issues, will submit the case without further hearing, the Court, upon granting the writ, may proceed at once to a decision of the merits. P. 587.
2. A request in chambers, joined in by the district attorney and
counsel for defendants in a criminal case, that the jury be held in
deliberation until they should agree upon a verdict, should not be
construed as authorizing the judge, out of court, and without the
presence of the defendants or their counsel, to receive from the
jury a verdict announcing their findings of agreement as to some
and disagreement as to other defendants, and to return a written
instruction that they also find guilty or not guilty those as to
whom they had disagreed. P. 587.
3. When a jury has retired to consider its verdict, written instructions should not be sent without notice to the defendant or his
counsel. P. 588.
17 F. (2d) 69, reversed.
PETITION

for a writ of certiorari to review a judgment

of the Circuit Court of Appeals affirming a conviction of
conspiracy to violate the Prohibition Act. For reasons
explained in the opinion, granting of the writ is accompanied by a disposition of the case under it.
Mr. E. Lowry Humes for petitioner.
Solicitor General Mitchell, Assistant Attorney General
Willebrandt, and Mr. John J. Byrne, Attorney in the
Department of Justice, for the United States.
MR.

CHIEF JUSTICE

TAFT delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The question here for review is the judgment of the
Third Circuit Court of Appeals, of February 14, 1927.

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

A petition for certiorari was filed in this Court February
28, 1927, and is this day granted. For reasons to be explained, we proceed at once to consider the case on its
merits.
Shields, the petitioner, was indicted and tried with eight
or nine others for conspiracy to violate the Prohibition
Act, and also for direct violations of the Act. He was
convicted of conspiracy and acquitted of the other charges.
The case had been submitted to the jury, February 12,
1926. Before the court convened the next morning, the
jury still being out, counsel for the defendants and the
Assistant United States Attorney in charge of the prosecution visited the trial judge in chambers and requested
that the jury be held in deliberation until they should
agree upon a verdict. Shortly after the opening of the
court, the jury returned for additional instructions on
the subject of entrapment, and having received the same,
retired for further deliberation. At 2.30 o'clock that afternoon, the jury again returned to court, in the absence of
petitioner and his counsel, and reported that they could
not agree. What instructions, if any, were then given
the jury the record does not disclose. It appears that the
jury again retired to deliberate, and between 4.30 and 5.00
o'clock in the afternoon sent from their jury room to the
judge in chambers the following written communication:
"We, the jury, find the defendants John G. Emmerling, Charles Lynch not guilty on all counts, E. W. Hardison, J. E. Hunter and J. L. Simler guilty on all counts.
Daniel J. Shields, Harry Widman, J. M. Gastman unable

to agree.

Signed, E. B.

MILLIGAN,

Foreman."
The judge from his chambers sent back the following
written reply:
"The jury will have to find also whether Shields, Widman and Gastman are guilty or not guilty.
F. P. SCHOONMAKER,
Judge."

SHIELDS v. UNITED STATES.
583

Opinion of the Court.

These communications were not made in open court,
and neither the petitioner Shields nor his counsel was
present, nor were they advised of them. Shortly after,
the jury returned in court and announced the following
verdict:
"We, the jury, find that the defendants John G. Emmerling, Charles Lynch, not guilty on all counts. E. W.
Hardison, J. L. Simler, J. E. Hunter guilty on all four
counts. Daniel J. Shields, Harry Widman, J. M. Gastman
guilty on first count and recommended to mercy of court.
Not guilty on 2nd, 3rd and 4th counts, this 13th day of
February, 1926.

E. B.

MILLIGAN,

Foreman."
Upon this verdict the court rendered its judgment sentencing Shields to pay a fine of $2,000 and to be imprisoned in jail for one year. Shields then filed in court
a petition alleging that not until April 21, 1926, more
than two months later, did he or his counsel have any
knowledge of the tentative verdict sent by the jury to the
judge in chambers, or of the reply thereto by the judge,
and praying that he be allowed an exception to the action
of the judge in sending the reply. The court refused to
grant the petition, for the reason as stated by it,
"that counsel for the defendant, Daniel J. Shields, requested the court to hold the jury in deliberation until
they should agree upon a verdict, and therefore when the
court received the communication from the jury, it was
returned with the instructions complained of, although
it is true that the defendant's counsel was not present
when the communication was handed to the court from
the jury.
(Sgd) Per Curiam,

OCTOBER TERM, 1026.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

An exception was allowed, however, to the foregoing
refusal to grant an exception, the record reciting in this
respect:
"Eo die an exception to the above refusal to grant an
exception is hereby noted to the defendant, Daniel J.
Shields.
F. P. SCHOONMAKER,
Judge."
Shields took the case to the Circuit Court of Appeals,
assigning, among other errors the action of the District
Court in sending the communication to the jury and the
refusal of the court to grant an exception to that action.
The Circuit Court of Appeals, in affirming the judgment,
said:
"The justified reliance of Court on the request of counsel; avoidance of abortive mistrials and the timely administration of a court's work, based on the verdict of a jury
which had evidence to support it, all unite in making the
case one where with one breath a court can not be asked
by counsel to take a step in a case and later be convicted
of error, because it has complied with such request, for
as is said in 17 Corpus Juris 373-4, 'A defendant in a
criminal case can not complain of error which he himself
has invited."'
The petitioner urges, first, that the request joined in
by counsel for the defendants, that the jury be held in
deliberation until they had reached a verdict, could not
be properly construed as a consent that the court might
communicate with the jury out of court and in the absence of the defendants and their counsel; second, that
the action of the District Court in thus communicating
with the jury was a denial to petitioner of due process
of law; third, that the judgment of the Circuit Court
of Appeals upholding that action is in conflict with the
decision of this Court in Fillipponv. Albion Vein Slate
Co., 250 U. S. 76; fourth, that the instruction in the

SHIELDS v. UNITED STATES.
583

Opinion of the Court.

communication to the jury that it "will have to find also
whether Shields, Widman and Gastman are guilty or not

guilty," was additionally erroneous because in violation
of ยง 1036 of the Revised Statutes, which authorizes a

jury to bring in a verdict as to those of the defendants
regarding whom they are agreed, and declares that the
case as to the other defendants may be tried by another
jury; fifth, that in this respect the instruction of the
District Court runs counter to the decision of this Court
in Bucklin v. United States, 159 U. S. 682; and, sixth,
that the direction to the jury to bring in a verdict of
guilty or not guilty .as to the three defendants named
had the effect of coercing the jury into rendering a
verdict which they were plainly reluctant to return.
The Solicitor General advises us that, after a careful
study of the record in this case, the Government is unable to find any satisfactory ground for opposing the
petition for a writ of certiorari, and that no brief in
opposition will therefore be filed, and if the writ issues,
the Government will submit the case without being heard
further.
In view of this, we deem it proper to dispose of the
case at once. On the statement of the case as we have
given it, we think the judgment of the Circuit Court
of Appeals must be reversed on the first and third grounds
urged, and the cause remanded to the District Court
for a new trial. The joint request to the court, of counsel for the defendant and the Assistant District Attorney,
to hold the jury in deliberation until they should agree
upon a verdict, made in chambers without the presence
of the defendant, cannot be extended beyond its exact
terms. It did not include any agreement that the court
should receive a communication from the jury and answer
it without giving the defendant and his counsel an opportunity to be present in court to take such action as they
might be advised, especially when the communication as

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

to the result of the deliberations of the jury showed a
marked difference in the views which the jury had as to
the guilt of the various defendants. Counsel, in making
it, necessarily assumed, as they had a right to, that any
communication from the jury would be made in open
court, and that they must necessarily be offered an opportunity to withdraw the request already preferred, or to
vary it. It is hardly fair to say that a general request
to hold the jury for a verdict can be properly applied to
such a situation as subsequently developed by the communication of the jury showing their views as to the
various defendants.
In the case of Fillipponv. Albion Vein Slate Co., 250
U. S. 76, which was a suit for damages for personal injuries, it appeared that, after the trial judge had completed his instructions and the jury had retired for
deliberation, and while they were deliberating, they sent
to the judge a written inquiry on the question of contributory negligence, to which the trial judge replied by
sending a written instruction to the jury room, in the
absence of the parties and their counsel and without their
consent, and without calling the jury into open court.
A new trial was ordered on this account. The Court
said:
"Where a jury has retired to consider of its verdict,
and supplementary instructions axe required, either because asked for by the jury or for other reasons, they
ought to be given either in the presence of counsel or after
notice and an opportunity to be present; and written
instructions ought not to be sent to the jury without
notice to counsel and an opportunity to object."
If this be true in a civil case, a fortiori is it true in a
criminal case. The request made to the court jointly
by the counsel for the defendant and for the Government
did not justify exception to .the rule of orderly conduct

KELLEY v. OREGON.
5&3

Opinion of the Court.

of jury trial entitling the defendant, especially in a criminal case, to be present from the time the jury is impaneled until its discharge after rendering the verdict.
We reverse the judgment without reference to the other
causes of error assigned.
Reversed.
KELLEY v. OREGON.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF OREGON.

No. 827. Argued March 9, 1927.-Decided April 11, 1927.
1. Contentions that a defendant, tried for murder, was deprived of
rights under the Federal Constitution (due process of law,) by a
charge of the state court concerning self-defense and by being kept
in custody in and out of the court room during the trial, are
frivolous. P. 590.
2. The proposition that, under the Fourteenth Amendment, one who
has committed a murder while serving a term of imprisonment in
a state penitentiary has a vested right to serve out his term before
he can be executed for the murder, is likewise frivolous. P. 591.
Writ of error to 118 Ore. 397, dismissed.
ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Oregon
sustaining a death sentence for murder. In one aspect
of the case the writ of error is treated as an application
for certiorari; which is denied.

Mr. Will R. King for plaintiff in error, submitted.
Mr. John H. Carson, with whom Mr. Willis S. Moore
was on the brief, for defendant in error.
MR. CHIEF JUSTCE TAFT delivered the opinion of the
Court.
Ellsworth Kelley, plaintiff in error, James Willos and
Tom Murray were jointly indicted by the grand jury of
Marion County, Oregon, for the crime of murder in the

