MAGUIRE & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

MAGUIRE AND COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROMT THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 39.

Argued December 1, 1926.-Decided January 3, 1927.

In a sale of cloth by the Government, a description, accompanying
the advertisement for bids and giving the weight per yard, is not a
warranty, when bidders are invited to inspect the goods before
bidding and notified that bids subject to inspection will not be
received. P. 69.
59 Ct. Cls. 575, affirmed.
APPEAL

from a judgment of the Court of Claims dis-

missing a claim based on an alleged breach of warranty
upon the part of the Government, in a sale of surplus
water-proof duck.
Mr. Harry Peyton, with whom Messrs. A. E. Maves
and W. W. Bride were on the brief, for the appellant.
Solicitor General Mitchell for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE SANFORD

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The Maguire Company filed its petition, under the
Tucker Act, to recover from the United States for the
alleged breach of a contract made by the Surplus Property Division of the War Department for the sale of a
certain quantity of waterproof duck. The Court of
Claims, on its findings of fact, dismissed the petition.
59 C. Cls. 575. And the case was brought here by appeal under ยง 242 of the Judicial Code, prior to the Jurisdictional Act of 1925.
The basis of the Company's contention is that it purchased, pursuant to an advertisement by the Surplus
Property Division, certain material listed as olive drab
waterproof duck, weighing 12.4 oz. per yard; that this
description, according to commercial usage, referred to

68

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

the weight of the duck before it had been waterproofed,
and indicated that it had weighed 12.4 oz. in that condition; but that the duck delivered under the contract,
although then weighing 12.4 oz. or more, had weighed
only 10.5 oz. before being waterproofed, and was of less
value than the 12.4 oz. duck which it had purchased.
The findings of fact show that the Zone Supply Officer
at Jeffersonville, Indiana, advertised for sale a list of
surplus textiles containing an item No. 20, described as
121,964 yards of waterproof duck, "width, 29 inches;
color, 0. D.; weight, 12.4." Attached to this list was a
letter stating that the inspection of the textiles was invited and might be made at the Supply Depot at Jeffersonville, where the material was stored; but that "bids
subject to inspection" would not be received. The Company, a New York corporation, after seeing this list and
the accompanying letter submitted, through an authorized
agent, a bid for the material listed as item No. 20, at
361 cents per yard. This was accepted by a letter in
which the materials were described as "Duck, W. P. 29",
0. D. 12.4 oz." The Company paid the purchase price;
and the Government delivered to it all the material
listed in item No. 20.
The Court of Claims also found that samples taken
from this duck, both before and after delivery, weighed
13.4 oz., or more, per yard; that there were no recognized
commercial standard weights of waterproof duck-the increased weight caused by waterproofing varying according to the process and ingredients used-and that it was
the commercial practice to sell waterproof duck on
samples without mentioning weight; and that the Government delivered to the Company "the actual material
offered and described in item No. 20" of the surplus
textile
list and sold by the letter of acceptance.
In support
of the judgment dismissing the petition the
Court of Claims in its opinion said: "Neither the plain-

MAGUIRE & CO. v. UNITED STATES.
67

Opinion of the Court.

tiff nor its agent inspected the material before bidding
or before consummating the sale. Inspection was invited by the Government, and it was expressly stated that
no bids would be received subject to inspection after the
bidding. The advertisement of sale and the letter accompanying it, which the plaintiff saw before bidding, put
purchasers upon notice and charged them with the duty
of seeing what they were buying before they bought.
Purchasers were told, in effect, that if they bought something other than they thought they were buying they
could not afterwards assert a claim upon the ground that
they were mistaken in the character and quality of the
materials. .
. If the plaintiff received from the
Government a different material from that which it
thought it had bought it is not the fault of the Government, and the plaintiff can not recover for its own negligence." And, "As a matter of fact the Government
delivered to the plaintiff exactly the material which it
advertised for sale."
We think that the construction and effect of the advertisement and accompanying letter were correctly
stated by the Court of Claims. In view of the specific
statements in the letter that inspection of the materials
was invited, and that they would not be sold subject to
inspection, the description of the weight of the duck
cannot be regarded as in the nature of a warranty. In
this aspect the present case is analogous to Lipshitz &
Cohen v. United States, 269 U. S. 90, 92. There, an
agent of the United States having listed junk for sale at
several forts, setting forth the weights and kinds of each,
accompanied by a statement that the weights shown were
approximate and must be accepted as correct by the bidder, the plaintiffs, without inspection or other information, bid a lump sum for the material, "as is where is."
And, although the quantities turned out to be much less
than those shown in the list, it was held that the plain-

70

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Syllabus.

273 U. S.

tiff's had no cause of action, since the naming of quantities "cannot be regarded as in the nature of a warranty,
but merely an estimate of the probable amounts in reference to which good faith only could be required of the
party making it."

This principle is conclusive of the present case. And
for this reason, if no other, a motion made by the Maguire Company to remand the cause to the Court of
Claims for a further finding of fact as to the weight
of the duck before waterproofing, must be denied.
The judgment is
Affirmed.

LIBERTY WAREHOUSE COMPANY T AL. v.
GRANNIS, COMMONWEALTH ATTORNEY.
ERROR TO THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.

No. 60. Argued December 7, 1926.-Decided January 3, 1927.
1. Under Art. III of the Constitution the jurisdiction of the federal
courts is limited to cases and controversies presented in such form,
with adverse litigants, that the judicial power is capable of acting
upon them and of pronouncing and carrying into effect a judgment
between the parties, and does not extend to the determination of
abstract questions or issues framed for the purpose of invoking the
advice of the court without real parties or a real case. P. 73.
2. So held of a proceeding in the District Court brought under the
Declaratory Judgment Law of Kentucky, against a prosecuting
attorney, for the purpose of obtaining a declaration concerning the
construction and validity of an act of the State regulating sales of
leaf tobacco at public auction, in which there was no allegation
that the plaintiffs had done or were contemplating any of the
things forbidden by and punishable under the Act, or that the
defendant threatened proceedings against them; or any prayer for
relief against him.
3. The federal Conformity Act relates only to "practice, pleadings,
and forms and modes of procedure "; and neither purports to nor
can extend the jurisdiction of the district courts beyond the constitutional limitations. P. 76.

