UNITED STATES v. BURTON COAL CO.

337

Statement of the Case.

333

after they had reached the hands of the money order
department.
There is a clear distinction between public money and
these sums of money received by an employee of the
office charged with the specific duty of transmitting them
to their real owners in a definitely prescribed manner.
That money though received under color of office may not
be public money, is clearly recognized by ยง 225 of the
Criminal Code, c. 321, 35 Stat. 1088, 1133, which defines
the offense of embezzlement in part as the conversion by
any person in the postal service of any money coming
into his hands under color of his office, whether the same
shall be the money of the United States or not.
Judgment reversed.
The CHIEF JUSTICE, MR. JuSTICE HOLMES and MR.
JUSTICE STONE, dissent.

UNITED STATES v. BURTON COAL COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.

No. 100. Argued January 10, 1927.-Decided February 21, 1927.
1. Where a buyer, in violation of an executory contract of sale, refuses
to accept the commodity sold, the seller may recover the difference
between the contract price and the market value at the time when
and at the place where deliveries should have been made. P. 340.
2. The application of this rule is not affected by the fact that the
seller relied on or intended procuring the commodity sold through
contracts with third persons under which he would have been
obliged to pay more than the market price existing when his purchaser refused to accept deliveries. P. 340.
60 Ct. Cls. 294, affirmed.

APPEAL by the United States from a judgment of the
Court of Claims allowing damages for breach of a contract
to accept and pay for coal.
42847 -27-22

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

Assistant Attorney General Galloway, with whom Solicitor General Mitchell was on the brief, for the United
States.
Mr. Maclay Hoyne for the appellee.
MR. JUsTICE BuTLER delivered the opinion of the Court.
The judgment is for damages for breach of contract by
the United States to accept and pay for coal purchased
from appellee for use at army posts in the Chicago district.
The only question presented for our consideration is
whether the Court of Claims applied the right measure.
It gave the difference between contract price and market
value at the times and places specified for deliveries. Appellant maintains that, upon the facts of the case, that rule
is not applicable, and that appellee is limited to recovery
of the amount of profits it would have realized if appellant
had accepted and paid for all the coal covered by the
contract.
The facts on which appellant's contention is based follow. Appellant and appellee made a contract as of September 10, 1920, by which the former agreed to take and
pay for, and the latter agreed to furnish and deliver, 150,000 tons of coal at $6.75 per ton. The contract contemplated the production of the coal at mines in southern
Illinois: 40,000 tons at the White Ash Mine of the Johnson City Washed Coal Company, 50,000 tons at the Paradise Mine of the Forester Coal and Coke Company, and
60,000 tons at the Freeman Mine of the Freeman Coal
Mining Company. But it was agreed that appellee might
furnish coal from other mines if, for any reason for which
it was not responsible, it should be unable at any time
to furnish coal in sufficient quantities from the mines
mentioned. Appellant agreed to furnish cars and give
shipping directions. Appellee agreed to make deliveries
on cars at each of the mines in specified quantities per
week.

UNITED STATES v. BURTON COAL CO.
337

339

Opinion of the Court.

Appellee is a selling company and did not own or operate any of the mines named and did not have any interest in any of the companies owning or operating them.
It had arrangements with the mining companies named,
under which it, in its own name and under contracts between it and purchasers, sold coal produced from the
mines. The president of appellee was also the president
and principal owner of the company operating the White
Ash Mine. It was customary for selling companies to
assist in financing mining companies. Appellee advanced
the companies operating the White Ash and Paradise
mines funds to meet their payrolls. The Freeman mine
was similarly financed by another selling company. Mines
in southern Illinois have no facilities for storing coal.
The general practice is to load the coal, as it comes from
the mines, directly into cars. Appellee delivered the coal
to appellant in that way. And, under the contract, 53,146
tons were accepted and paid for. Appellee was ready to
deliver the balance, but appellant refused to take or pay
for any more. The difference between the contract price
and market value at the times and places specified for
deliveries was $4.60 per ton; and this, applied to the
96, 854 tons that appellant refused to take, produces
$445,528.40. Judgment was given for that amount.
Under the agreements appellee had with the companies
operating the mines, its profits on the tonnage refused
would have been $46,065.97.
In support of its contention that recovery must be
limited to that amount, the United States emphasizes that
appellee had no mine or coal at the time of the breach;
that the coal refused had not been mined; that it was not
shown that appellee was bound to take or pay for any of
that coal or that it suffered any loss because of the termination of the mining and deliveries under the agreements
between it and the mining companies, and that appellee
made no claim for damages suffered by such companies.

340

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

And appellant insists that the judgment is erroneous because it puts appellee in a better position than if the contract had been performed.
United States v. Smith, 94 U. S. 214, 218, 219, and
United States v. Wyckoff Co., 271 U. S. 263, are cited and
relied on by appellant. They do not apply. Each arose
out of a contract covering construction work for the
United States. Performance by the contractor was delayed by the interference or default of the United States;
and the action was for the resulting damages. The court
held that the measure of damages for delay was the actual
loss sustained by the contractor. Here the appellant by its
refusal to accept the coal prevented appellee from completing its part of the contract. The coal had a market
value and it was less than the contract price. The applicable measure of damages is fixed by the rule of law
that, where a buyer in violation of an executory contract
of sale refuses to accept the commodity sold, the seller
may recover the difference between the contract price and
the market value at the times when and the places where
deliveries should have been made. 2 Williston on Sales,
ยง 582. The facts brought forward by appellant do not
take the case out of the general rule. Appellee was bound
to deliver the quantity of coal covered by the contract.
Failure of the sources referred to in the contract would
not excuse it. In contemplation of law it could have obtained the coal at market prices prevailing at the times
when deliveries were required under the contract. The
contract was not for production or mining, but for sale
and delivery, of coal. Appellant and appellee were the
only parties to it. There was no contract relation between
appellant and any of the mining companies. Their default
would not make them liable to appellant or relieve appellee from the obligation to deliver the coal to appellant.
Appellant's liability is not measured by appellee's losses
or gains, if any, under its agreements with the mining
companies. Appellee is not entitled to have the full con-

MISSOURI PACIFIC v. PORTER.
Statement of the Case.

337

tract price of the coal not delivered, but is chargeable only
with its market value. The difference between that value
and the contract price is the amount of damage deemed by
the law directly and naturally to result in the ordinary
course of events from the appellant's breach of contract.
The cost to appellee of securing the coal and the amount
of its profits are immaterial. Garfield &c. Co. v. N. Y.,
N. H. & H. Railroad, 248 Mass. 502, 506; Kadish v.
Young, 108 Ill. 170, 176, 186. Cf. Jamal v. Dawood
[1916], 1 A. C. 175. The judgment leaves appellant in
as good position as if it had accepted and paid for the coal
in accordance with its contract.
Judgment affirmed.
MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY v.

PORTER

ET AL.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ARKANSAS.

No. 107.

Submitted January 11, 1927.-Decided February 21, 1927.

1. Section 1(6) of the Act to Regulate Commerce, requiring carriers
to establish and enforce just and reasonable regulations affecting
"the issuance, form and substance" of bills of lading, applies to
provisions in bills of lading affecting liability of railroads for loss of
property received by them for transportation over an interstate
inland route to a seaport for delivery to a foreign vessel for ocean
carriage to a non-adjacent foreign country. P. 343.
2. This is a general regulation by Congress broad enough to include
stipulations in bills of lading exempting carriers from liability for
loss of such shipments by fire, not due to the carriers' negligence.
P. 345.
3. A state law forbidding such stipulations is therefore as applied to
such shipments invalid in view of the occupation of the field by
Congress. P. 346.
168 Ark. 22, reversed.

ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Arkansas
which affirmed a judgment against the railroad for loss
of goods by fire, in favor of Porter and other shippers.

