EASTMAN CO. v. SOUTHERN PHOTO CO. 359
352

Syllabus.

The judgment of the District Court must accordingly
be affirmed. But the Court being advised that the appellee, the Commissioner of Immigration, has died since
December 10, 1926, the day on which this case was argued
and submitted, the judgment here will be entered nunc

pro tunc as of that day. Mitchell v. Overman, 103 U. S.

62, 65; Richardson v. Green, 130 U. S. 104, 116; Bell v.
Bell, 181 U. S. 175, 179; Cuebas v. Cuebas, 223 U. S. 376,
390.

Judgment affirmed, nunc pro tunc.
EASTMAN KODAK COMPANY OF NEW YORK v.

SOUTHERN PHOTO MATERIALS COMPANY.
ERROR TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR 'THE FIFTH
CIRCUIT.
No. 6.

Argued November 19, 1925.-Decided February 21, 1927.

1. Under § 12 of the Clayton Act, a suit against a corporation for
injuries sustained from violations of the Anti-Trust Act may be
brought in a federal court in any district in which the corporation
transacts business, although neither residing nor "found" there;
and the process may be served in another district in which the
corporation either resides or is "found." P. 370.
2. A corporation is engaged in transacting business in a district, in the
sense of this venue provision, if in fact, in the ordinary and usual
sense, it "transacts business" therein of any substantial character. P. 373.
3. A corporation is none the less engaged in transacting business in a
district, within the meaning of this section, because of the fact that
such business may be entirely interstate in character and be transacted by agents who do not reside within the district. P. 373.
4. Congress may, in the exercise of its legislative discretion, fix the
venue of a civil action in a federal court in one district, and authorize the process to be issued to another district in which the defendant resides or is found. P. 374.
5. A corporation which, in a continuous course of business, was engaged, not only in selling and shipping its goods to dealers within a
certain district, but also in soliciting orders therein through its
salesmen and promoting the demand for its goods through its
demonstrators for the purpose of increasing its sales, was transact-

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

273 U. S.

ing business in that district, within the meaning of this venue
provision of the Clayton Act. P. 374.
6. That the intent of a defendant manufacturer in refusing to continue selling its goods to a plaintiff retailer at dealers' discounts
was to perpetuate its monopoly in such goods, may be inferred
from circumstances. P. 375.
7. Such refusal was not justified by the fact that the plaintiff retailer
has previously undertaken to handle goods of another manufacturer under a preferential contract, when it was not shown that the
defendant knew of such contract at the time of the refusal. P. 375.
8. In an action for injury to an established retail business due to a
defendant manufacturer's monopoly of a line of the goods dealt in
and to its refusal, in the interest of its monopoly, to continue
supplying such goods to the plaintiff at retailers' discounts, the gross
profits derived by the plaintiff from selling such goods during a
period preceding the refusal, less the expense, additional to the
general expenses of the business, which would have been incurred
in handling them during the period in suit, may be used as a standard in measuring the damages, if the plaintiff had not been in pari
delicto with the defendant in the monopoly, and the profits were
not increased thereby, and if the other facts are such that the
inference of the lost anticipated profits from the past profits is
reasonable. P. 376.
9. Damages are not uncertain because they cannot be calculated
exactly. It is sufficient if a reasonable basis of computation is
afforded, although the result be only approximate. P. 378.
10. A defendant whose wrongful conduct has rendered difficult the
ascertainment of the precise damages suffered by the plaintiff, is
not entitled to complain that they cannot be measured with the
same exactness as would otherwise be possible. P. 379.
295 Fed. 98, affirmed.

ERROR to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals
which affirmed a judgment of the District Court in a
suit brought to recover damages for injuries sustained
through violation of the Sherman Anti-Trust Act. See
also 234 Fed. 955.
Mr. John W. Davis, with whom Messrs. Frank L.
Crawford and Clarence P. Moser were on the brief, for
plaintiff in error.

EASTMAN CO. v. SOUTHERN PHOTO CO. 361
359

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

The attempted service of process upon the defendant,
whether in the State of Georgia or in the State of New
York, was void and the court below had no jurisdiction
in the premises. People's Tobacco Co. v. American Tobacco Co., 246 U. S. 79; Internat. Harvester Co. v. Kentucky, 234 U. S. 579; Minn. Comm. Assn. v. Benn, 261
U. S. 140; Davis v. FarmersEquity Co., 262 U. S. 312;
V. S. & P. Ry. v. De Bow, 148 Ga. 738; Southeastern
Dist. Co. v. Marmon Co., 159 Ga. 150; Chase Bag Co.
v. Munson S. S. Line, 295 Fed. 990; Holzer v. Dodge
Bros., 233 App. Div. 216. Distinguishing N. W. Consol.
Milling Co. v. Massachusetts,246 U. S. 147.
That Congress, by inserting in § 12 of the Clayton
Act, after the words "may be found," the additional
words "or transacts business," did not intend to broaden
the section but merely to make explicit what this Court
had already decided, is shown by the legislative proceedings. Duplex Co. v. Deering, 254 U. S. 443. Language of this Court in the People's Tobacco case, defines
the words "resides or is found" as the equivalent of
"carying on business." In St. Louis S. W. Ry. Co. v.
Alexander, 227 U. S. 218, it had been said that, "A long
line of decisions in this Court has established that in
order to render a corporation amenable to service of
process in a foreign jurisdiction it must appear that the
corporation is transacting business in that district to
such an extent as to subject it to the jurisdiction and
laws thereof." Frey & Son y. Cudahy Packing Co., 228
Fed. 209, and the decision in the instant case (234 Fed.
955), were both rendered long before the decision of this
Court in the People's Tobacco case. Distinguishing Gen.
Investment Co. v. Ry. Co., 260 U. S. 261.
The plaintiff, while a customer of the defendant, was a
participant in the latter's unlawful acts and was, therefore, in par! delicto, and the profits earned by plaintiff
during the period of such illegality cannot be used as a

362

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

273 U. S.

standard by which to measure the damages which it alleges it sustained in the period for which it was allowed
to recover. There is, therefore, no competent proof of
damages in the record. The court would not have then
given relief to either party to the illegal contract for injuries caused by the other party and growing out of the
contract relation. JllcMullen v. Hoffman, 174 U. S. 639;
Coppell v. Hall, 7 Wall. 542; Cont. Wall Paper Co. v.
Voight & Sons Co., 212 U. S. 227; Harrimanv. Northern
Securities Co., 197 U. S. 244; Hall v. Corcoran, 107 Mass.
251. Mere participation and acquiescence by the plaintiff in the unlawful system of defendant made the former
a party to the wrongdoing and itself a violator of the
Sherman Act. Sage v. Hampe, 235 U. S. 99; Victor Co.
v. Kemeny, 271 Fed. 810; Eastman Kodak Co. v. Blackmore, 277 Fed. 694; Tilden v. Quaker Oats Co., 1 Fed.
(2d) 160; Bluefields S. S. Co. v. United Fruit Co., 243
Fed. 1. The assumed fact that plaintiff accepted the
terms of sale and joined with defendant in maintaining
the latter's illegal system because, as stated by the trial
judge in his charge; "he needed the goods and that was
the only way he could get them," did not excuse the
plaintiff nor relieve it of the penalties of one who is in
pari delicto. Its necessity did not constitute legal duress.
Eastman Kodak Co. v. Blackmore, supra; Dennehy v.
McNulta, 86 Fed. 825; Detroit Edison Co. v. Wyatt Coal
Co., 293 Fed. 489; Radich v. Hutchins, 95 U. S. 210;
Chesebrough v. United States, 192 U. S. 253. Distinguishing Ramsey v. Assoc. Bill Posters, 260 U. S. 50).
The only measure of damages proposed by plaintiff
and allowed by the court was the assumed net profits
which plaintiff claims it would have made after it ceased
to be an Eastman customer, had it been allowed to purchase Eastman goods at dealers' discounts, such net profits
being arrived at by taking the actual gross profits which
plaintiff claims to have made during the period before it

EASTMAN CO. v. SOUTHERN PHOTO CO. 363
359

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

so ceased, and deducting therefrom a speculative cost of
conducting the increased business, which it is claimed
would have resulted from the handling of Eastman goods.
In short, the whole recovery hinged upon the use of the
alleged gross profits of the earlier period, as a standard of
comparison by which to determine the amount of net
profits claimed to have been lost in the later period. It
is well settled that one may not use the earnings or profits
which he made in the course of a violation of law, or in a
business which was illegal, as a measure of the damages
which he suffered after the'date when he claimed that his
business was interrupted. Riggs v. Palmer, 115 N. Y.
506; Murray v. Interurban Ry. Co., 118 App. Div. 35;
Victor Co. v. Kemeny, supra; Eastman Co. v. Blackmore, supra; Raynor v. Blatz Brewing Co., 100 Wis. 414;
Continental Paper Co. v. Voight, 212 U. S. 227. Distinguishing Ramsey v. Assoc. Bill Posters, 260 U. S. 501.
There was no proof of damages such as, under the
authorities, is necessary to enable plaintiff, in cases under
the Anti-Trust Acts, to recover any damages whatever.
Keogh v. C. & N. W. R. R. Co., 260 U. S. 156; Central
Coal Co. v. Hartman, 111 Fed. 96; Locker v. Amer.
Tobacco Co., 218 Fed. 447; Amer. Slate Co. v. O'Halloran, 229 Fed. 77; Cramer v. Grand Rapids Showcase Co.,
223 N. Y. 63; McSherry Mfg. Co. v. Dowagiac Mfg. Co.,
160 Fed. 948; Montgomery v. C. B. & Q. R. R. Co., 228
Fed. 616. Plaintiff offered no proof of the amount of its
capital either before or after the alleged interruption,
either as to the whole amount invested in its entire business or as to the amount invested in that part of the
business which concerns Eastman goods.
The sale of Eastman goods formed only a small part
of the total sales of plaintiff. If the entire business be
considered as a unit and the total expenses and cost of
goods be deducted from the entire receipts, then the
plaintiff lost money in 1908 and 1909; whereas, in 1910

364

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

273 U. S.

and 1911 after the alleged interruption, it cleared a substantial net profit. There is no provision in any of the
decisions cited above for allowing the plaintiff, in such
cases, to estimate that his total sales would have been
increased, if permitted during the period when he was
unable to procure the goods in question. The precise
point was decided in Horton v. Hall & Clark Mfg. Co.,
94 App. Div. 404. Frey v. Welch Co., 240 Fed. 114, was
reversed in 261 Fed. 68. Distinguishing Lincoln v. Orthwein, 120 Fed. 880. The assumption that, had plaintiff
handled Eastman goods after !kpril, 1910, it would have
sold at least as great a quantity of them as before that
date, is entirely speculative.
The plaintiff offered no proof as to the reason why defendant declined to continue plaintiff as a customer on
the terms formerly in force between them The presumption is that the refusal was made either for good or
for purely indifferent reasons, and that it was therefore
entirely legal. United States v. Colgate & Co., 250 U. S.
300. This presumption not having been overcome, the
plaintiff in error was entitled to a dismissal or a direction
on this ground alone. The record, it is true, fails to
show expressly whether defendant knew the provisions of
the Ansco contract at or about the time it was entered
into. The plaintiff on its part assumed that defendant
had such knowledge. In any event, since these provisions, if known, would have furnished a lawful reason for
terminating the relations between the parties, even if
defendant was not aware of them at the time, it should
be permitted to take advantage of them when they became known to it. This is the well established rule in
the law of master and servant and of agency. In re
Nagle, 278 Fed. 105; Farmerv. First Trust Co., 246 Fed.
671; Carpenter Steel Co. v. Norcross, 204 Fed. 537; Sanborn v. United States, 135 U. S. 271; McGar v. Adams,
65 Ala. 106.

EASTMAN CO. v. SOUTHERN PHOTO CO. 365
359

Argument for Defendant in Error.

Substantially the same rule applies wherever a fiduciary relation exists. An apparently contrary rule in the
law of contracts has been modified so that it no longer
conflicts with the foregoing authorities. Strasbourgerv.
Leerburger, 233 App. Div. 55; Granger Co. v. Universal
Mach. Corp., 193 App. Div. 234.
Mr. Daniel MacDougald, with whom Mr. J. A. Fowler
was on the brief, for the defendant in error.
On the question of jurisdiction: Peoples Tobacco Co.
v. American Tobacco Co., 246 U. S. 70; Frey & Son v.
Cudahy Co., 228 Fed. 209; EastmanKodak Co. v. Southern Photo Co., 234 Fed. 955; InternationalHarvesterCo.
v. Kentucky, 234 U. S. 579; Davis v. Farmers' Co-operative Co., 262 U. S. 312; General Investment Co. v. Lakeshore, 260 U. S. 261.
On the right of the plaintiff to sue: Ramsey v. Associated Bill Posters, 260 U. S. 501, Connally v. Union Pipe
Co., 184 U. S. 540; Wilder Mfg. Co. v. Corn ProductsCo.,
236 U. S. 165. Distinguishing Bluefields S. S. Co. v.
United Fruit Co., 243 Fed. 1, Victor Talking Mach. Co. v.
Kemeny, 271 Fed. 810, EastmanKodak Co. v. Blackmore,
277 Fed. 694, and Tilden v. Quaker Oats Co., 1 Fed. (2d)
160.
On the question of damages: Central Coal & Coke Co.
v. Hartman, 111 Fed. 96; Lanier Gas Engine Co. v. Du
Bois, 130 Fed. 834; Hollweg v. Schaeffer Brokerage Co.,
197 Fed. 689; Yates v. Wyhel Coke Co., 221 Fed. 603;
Homestead Co. v. Des Moines Electric Co., 248 Fed. 439;
Frey & Son v. Welch Grape Juice Co., 240 Fed. 114; Lincoln v. Orthwein, 120 Fed. 880.
The suit was brought to recover loss of income to an
established business. The business continued in operation throughout the entire period covered by the suit.
The loss of income is the loss of profits on sales which
the plaintiff could have made during the period covered

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Argument for Defendant in Error.

273 U.S.

by the suit except for the defendant's illegal act. In
proving the damages, but two factors must be shown.
First, that a loss of income resulted from the defendant's
illegal refusal to sell to the plaintiff, and, second, the
extent of the loss. The previous sales and the previous
income would be sufficient evidence to authorize a verdict for the plaintiff and form the basis for the jury
to conclude that the same income would have been realized during the period of the suit. The sales were detailed for a period of four years prior to the defendant's
refusal to sell to the plaintiff. The gross profits on such
sales were likewise shown. Plaintiff, of course, was not
entitled to recover the gross profits. This would violate
the principle of indemnity. The plaintiff could only
recover the gross profit or income less such items of
expense as were saved to it by reason of not actually
making these sales. The evidence shows that the plaintiff continued its business during the entire period covered by the suit, consequently it still had the items of
general expense, incident to carrying on its business, such
as administrative, organization and selling expenses. In
fact, the evidence showed that the plaintiff continued to
travel the territory and that its salesmen solicited orders
continuously throughout this territory and from the
plaintiff's regular trade. The evidence shows that the
plaintiff in continuing the operation of its business still
had every expense incident thereto and incident to a
sale of the goods which it could no longer obtain, except
the actual expenses incident to handling these goods
through its established business. This evidence more
than supports the deduction that the plaintiff would
have sold the same amount of goods during the period
covered by the suit that it did prior thereto, when during the period of the suit plaintiff had increased its
number of customers 60%. The evidence shows that the
plaintiff's sales per photographer dropped from $79.00

EASTMAN CO. v. SOUTHERN PHOTO CO. 367
359

Opinion of the Court.

prior to the period covered by the suit to $36.09 per
photographer during that period.
There was direct testimony that the plaintiff could not
supply its customers more than 25% in kind and value
of the articles consumed by them in the operation of
their studios. This was more than substantial data from
which the extent of the damage could reasonably be
inferred or determined by the jury.
The plaintiff, with an established organization, was a
"going concern" with a demand for certain articles
which it could not supply despite the fact that the plaintiff had every "going concern" expense incident to supplying such articles.
MR. JUSTICE SANFORD delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This suit was brought by the Southern Photo Materials
Co., a Georgia corporation, in 1915, in the Federal District Court for Northern Georgia, against the Eastman
Kodak Co., a New York corporation, to recover damages
for injuries sustained by the plaintiff through the defendant's violation of the Sherman Anti-Trust Act.' Proceeding under § 12 of the Clayton Act,2 process was issued
and served upon the defendant, pursuant to an order of
the court, at Rochester, New York, where it had its principal place of business. The defendant, appearing specially, traversed the return, entered a plea to the jurisdiction, and moved to quash the service. The jurisdictional
issues thus raised were tried by the judge, who overruled
'Act of July 2, 1890, c. 647, 26 Stat. 209. This Act makes it illegal,
inter alia, to monopolize, or combine to monopolize, any part of the
trade or commerce among the several States, § 2; and authorizes any
person injured in his business or property by reason of anything
declared to be unlawful by the Act, to sue therefor and recover three
fold the damages sustained and a reasonable attorney's fee, § 7.
'Act of October 15, 1914, c. 323, 38 Stat. 730.

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

these defenses. 234 Fed. 955. The defendant, by leave
of court, then answered on the merits. The trial to the
court and jury resulted in a verdict for the plaintiff assessing its actual damages at $7,914.66. Judgment was entered
against the defendant for triple this amount and an attorney's fee. This was affirmed by the Circuit Court of
Appeals. 295 Fed. 9& And the case was then brought
here by writ of error, prior to the Jurisdictional Act of
1925.
The plaintiff operates a photographic stock house in
Atlanta and deals in photographic materials and supplies,
which it sells to photographers in Georgia and other
Southern States. The defendant is a manufacturer of
photographic materials and supplies, which it sells to
dealers throughout the United States.
The case made by the allegations of the complaint was,
in substance, this: The defendant, in violation of the
Anti-Trust Act, had engaged in a combination to monopolize the interstate trade in the United States in photographic materials and supplies, and had monopolized the
greater part of such interstate trade. This had been
brought about by purchasing and acquiring the control of
competing companies engaged in manufacturing such materials, and the businesses and stock houses of dealers; by
restraining the vendors from re-entering these businesses;
by imposing on the dealers to whom it sold goods restrictive terms of sale fixing the prices at which its goods
could be resold and preventing them from handling competitive goods; and by other means of suppressing
competition.
Prior to 1910 the plaintiff had dealt with the defendant
and purchased its goods on the same terms as other dealers,
with whom it was enabled to compete; but in that year
the defendant, having acquired the control of the stock
houses in Atlanta which were in competition with the
plaintiff and unsuccessfully attempted to purchase the
plaintiff's business, had, in furtherance of its purpose to

EASTMAN CO. v. SOUTHERN PHOTO CO. 369
359

Opinion of the Court.

monopolize, thereafter refused to sell the plaintiff its
goods at the dealers' discounts, and would no longer furnish them except at the retail prices at which they were
sold by other dealers and the agencies which the defendant
owned and controlled, with whom the plaintiff could no
longer compete. And, the plaintiff being thus deprived,
by reason of the monopoly, of the ability to obtain the
defendant's goods and supply them to its trade, its business had been greatly injured and it had sustained large
damages in the loss of the profits which it would have
realized in the four years covered by the suit had it been
able to continue the purchase and sale of such goods.
The answer denied that the defendant had combined to
monopolize or monopolized interstate trade, or refused to
sell its goods to the plaintiff at the dealers' discounts in
furtherance of a purpose to monopolize; and averred that
the defendant had not only committed no actionable
wrong, but that in any event the plaintiff had sustained
no damages capable of ascertainment upon any legal
basis.
While many errors were assigned, some of which were
also specified, in general terms, in the defendant's brief
in this Court, we confine our consideration of the case
in this opinion to the controlling questions which are
stated in that brief to present the chief issues here in
controversy, and to which alone the argument in the
brief is directed. See I. T. S. Co. v. Essex Rubber Co.,
272 U. S. 429. These do not involve the existence
of the defendant's monopoly-which is not questioned
here--but relate solely to the questions whether there
'The plaintiff's allegations in this respect were supported on the
trial by a final decree that had been entered in 1916 in another District Court in a suit in equity brought by the United States against
the defendant and others, which the plaintiff introduced, under § 5 of
the Clayton Act, as prima facie evidence of the defendant's violation
of the Anti-Trust Act.
42847-27-----24

370.

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

was local jurisdiction or venue in the District Court;
whether the refusal of the defendant to continue to sell the
plaintiff its goods at the dealers' discounts was in furtherance of a purpose to monopolize and constituted an actionable wrong which could form the basis of any recovery; and whether there was any competent and legal
proof on which a measurement of the plaintiff's damages
could be based.
1. Whether or not the jurisdiction of the District Court
was rightly sustained-which resolves itself into a question whether the venue of the suit was properly laid in
that court-depends upon the construction and effect of
§ 12 of the Clayton Act and its application to the facts
shown by the evidence set forth in the separate bill of
exceptions relating to the hearing on the jurisdictional
issues. Dunlop v. Munroe, 7 Cranch 242, 270; Jones v.
Buckell, 104 U. S. 554, 556.
It appears from this evidence that the defendantwhich resides and has its principal place of business in
New York-had not registered in Georgia as a non-resident corporation for the purpose of doing business in that
State, and had no office, place of business or resident agent
therein. It had, however, for many years prior to the institution of the suit, in a continuous course of business,
carried on interstate trade with a large number of photographic dealers in Atlanta and other places in Georgia, to
whom it sold and shipped photographic materials from
New York. A large part of this business was obtained
through its travelling salesmen who visited Georgia several
times in each year and solicited orders from these dealers
which were transmitted to its New York offices for acceptance or rejection. In furtherance of its business and to
increase the demand for its goods, it also employed travelling "demonstrators," who visited Georgia several times
in each year, for the purpose of exhibiting and explaining the superiority of its goods to photographers and other

EASTMAN CO. v. SOUTHERN PHOTO CO. 371
359

Opinion of the Court.

users of photographic materials. And, although these
demonstrators did not solicit orders for the defendant's
goods, they took at times retail orders for them from such
users, which they turned over to the local dealers supplied by the defendant.
It is clear that upon these facts this suit could not have
been maintained in the Georgia district under the original
provision in § 7 of the Anti-Trust Act that anyone injured in his person or property "by any other person
or corporation" by reason of anything declared to be
unlawful by the Act, might sue therefor "in the district
in which the defendant resides or is found." 4 In Peoples
Tobacco Co. v. Am. Tobacco Co., 246 U. S.79, 84, 86decided in 1918-it was held that this provision, as applied to a corporation sued in a district in which it did
not reside, required that it "be present inthe district by
its officers and agents carrying on the business of the
corporation," this being the only way in which it could
be said to be "found" within the district; that to make
it amenable to service of process in the district, the business must be of such nature and character as to warrant
the inference that it had subjected itself to the local jurisdiction, and was by its duly authorized officers or agents
present therein; and that advertising its goods in a State
and sending its soliciting agents therein, did not amount
to "that doing of business" which subjected it to the local
jurisdiction for the purpose of serving process upon it.
Manifestly the defendant was not present in the Georgia district through officers or agents engaged in carrying
on business of such character that it was "found" in
that district and was amenable to the local jurisdiction
for the service of process.
'A like provision was contained in the Tariff Act of 1894, 28 Stat.
509, c.349, which made illegal, combinations and trusts in restraint of

import trade. §§ 73, 74.

372

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

However, by the Clayton Act-which supplemented
the former laws against unlawful restraints and monopolies of interstate trade-the local jurisdiction of the
district courts was materially enlarged in reference to
suits against corporations. By § 4 of that Act it was
provided that any person "injured in his business or
property by reason of anything forbidden in the antitrust laws" might sue therefor in the district "in which
the defendant resides or is found or has an agent."
Whether, as applied to suits against corporations, as distinguished from those against individuals, the insertion
of the words "or has an agent" in this section can be
held, in the light of the decision in the Peoples Tobacco
Co. case, to have enlarged to any extent the jurisdictional
provision in § 7 of the Anti-Trust Act, we need not here
determine. Be that as it may, it is clear that such an
enlargement was made by § 12 of the Clayton Actdealing specifically with the venue and service of process
in suits against corporations-under which the plaintiff
proceeded in the present case. This provided that "any
suit, action, or proceeding under the antitrust laws against
a corporation may be brought not only in the judicial
district whereof it is an inhabitant, but also in any district wherein it may be found or transacts business; and
all process in such cases may be served in the district of
which it is an inhabitant, or wherever it may be found."
That this section altered the venue provisions in respect
to suit under the anti-trust laws was pointed out in
General Inv. Co. v. Lake Shore Ry., 260 U. S. 261, 279.
And we think it clear that, as applied to suits against
corporations for injuries sustained by violations of the
Anti-Trust Act, its necessary effect was to enlarge the
local jurisdiction of the district courts so as to establish
the venue of such a suit not only, as theretofore, in a
district in which the corporation resides or is "found,"
but also in any district in which it "transacts business "-

EASTMAN CO. v. SOUTHERN PHOTO CO. 373
359

Opinion of the Court.

although neither residing nor "found" therein-in which
case the process may be issued to and served in a district
in which the corporation either resides or is "found ";
and, further, that a corporation is engaged in transacting
business in a district, within the meaning of this section,
in such sense as to establish the venue of a suit-although
not present by agents carrying on business of such character and in such manner that it is "found" therein and
is amenable to local process,-if in fact, in the ordinary
and usual sense, it "transacts business" therein of any
substantial character. This construction is in accordance,
not only with that given this section by the two lower
courts in the present case, but also with the decisions in
Frey & Son v. Cudahy Packing Co. (D. C.), 228 Fed. 209,
213 and Haskell v. Aluminum Co. of America (D. C.),
14 F. (2d) 864, 869. And see Green v. Chicago, B. &
Q. Ry., 205 U. S. 530, 533, in which it was recognized that
a corporation engaged in the solicitation of orders in a
district was in fact "doing business" therein, although
not in such sense that process could be there served
upon it.
We are further of opinion that a corporation" is none
the less engaged in transacting business in a district,
within the meaning of this section-which deals with
suits respecting unlawful restraints upon interstate
trade-because of the fact that such business may be
entirely interstate in character and be transacted by
agents who do not reside within the district. And see
InternationalHarvester v. Kentucky, 234 U. S. 579, 587;
Davis v. Farmers Co-operative Co., 262 U. S. 312, 316.
Thus construed, this section supplements the remedial
provision of the Anti-Trust Act for the redress of injuries
resulting from illegal restraints upon interstate trade, by
relieving the injured person from the necessity of resorting for the redress of wrongs committed by a non-resident
corporation, to a district, however distant, in which it

374 -

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

resides or may be "found "-often an insuperable obstacle-and enabling him to institute the suit in a district, frequently that of his own residence; in which the
corporation in fact transacts business, and bring it before
the court by the service of process in a district in which
it resides or may be "found."
To construe the words "or transacts business" as adding nothing of substance to the meaning of the words
"or is found," as used in the Anti-Trust Act, and as still
requiring that the suit be brought in a district in which
the corporation resides or is " found," would to that extent
defeat the plain purpose of this section and leave no occasion for the provision that the process might be served
in a district in which the corporation resides or is found.
And we find nothing in the legislative proceedings leading to its enactment which requires or justifies such a
construction.
That Congress may, in the exercise of its legislative
discretion, fix the venue of a civil action in a federal court
in one district, and authorize the process to be issued to
another district in which the defendant resides or is found,
is not open to question. United States v. Union Pacific
R. R. Co., 98 U. S. 569, 604; Robertson v. Labor Board,
268 U. S. 619, 622.
And, since it appears from the facts already stated that
the defendant, in a continuous course of business, was
engaged, not only in selling and shipping its goods to
dealers within the Georgia district, but also in soliciting
orders therein through its salesmen and promoting the
demand for its goods through its demonstrators for the
purpose of increasing its sales, we conclude that it was
transacting business in that district, within the meaning
of § 12 of the Clayton Act, in such sense as properly
established the venue of the suit; that it was duly brought
before the court by the service of process in the New York
district, in which it resided and was "found "; and that
its jurisdictional defenses were rightly overruled.

EASTMTAN CO. v. SOUTHERN PHOTO CO. 375
359

Opinion of the Court.

2. On the question whether the defendant's refusal to
sell its goods to the plaintiff at dealers' discounts was in
furtherance of a purpose to monopolize and constituted
an actionable wrong, the defendant contends not only
that there was no direct evidence as to the purpose of
such refusal overcoming the presumption that it was a
lawful one, but that such refusal was justified by the fact
that the plaintiff had previously undertaken to handle the
goods of another manufacturer under a preferential contract. Aside from the plaintiff's contention that this contract related merely to goods that did not conflict with
the sale of those which it had been purchasing from the
defendant, it was not shown that the defendant knew of
this contract when it refused to sell its goods to the plaintiff. And for this reason, if for no other, we think that
the trial court rightly declined to charge the jury to the
effect that such taking over of other goods by the plaintiff
in itself justified the defendant in its refusal to sell to the
plaintiff. And, although there was no direct evidence-as
there could not well be-that the defendant's refusal to
sell to the plaintiff was in pursuance of a purpose to
monopolize, we think that the circumstances disclosed in
the evidence sufficiently tended to indicate such purpose,
as a matter of just and reasonable inference, to warrant
the submission of this question to the jury. "Clearly,"
as was said by the Court of Appeals, "it could not be
held as a matter of law that the defendant was actuated
by innocent motives rather than by an intention and
desire to perpetuate a monopoly." This question was
submitted under proper instructions. And the weight of
the evidence being in such case exclusively a question for
the jury, its determination is conclusive upon this question of fact. Crumpton v. United States, 138 U. S. 361,
363; Anvil Mining Co. v. Humble, 153 U. S. 540, 554.
And see Johnson v. United States, 157 U. S. 320, 326;
Goldman v. United States, 245 U. S. 474, 477.

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

3. On the question of the amount of damages, there was
substantial evidence to the effect that prior to 1910 the
plaintiff had an established business in selling supplies
used by professional photographers, of which it carried a
complete line, purchased in large part from the defendant;
that the defendant sold to dealers such supplies only; that
shortly before the defendant's refusal to continue the sale
of its goods the plaintiff also took on a complete line of
goods used by amateurs, which did not conflict with its
sales to professional photographers; that after the defendant's refusal, the plaintiff was unable, by reason of the
defendant's monopoly, to obtain and supply the greater
part of the goods necessary to professional photographers,
and lost its established trade in such goods; that its trade
with professional photographers greatly decreased; and
that its business was so organized that it would have been
able to continue to handle the defendant's goods during
the period in suit with no increase in its general expenses
and no additional cost except that incident to the handling of such goods themselves-its business being operated during such period at only two-thirds of its capacity.
The plaintiff's claim was that under these circumstances
it was entitled to recover, as the loss of'profits which it
would have realized had it been able to continue the purchase of defendant's goods, the amount of its gross profits
on the defendant's goods during the four years preceding
the period in suit, which was shown, less the additional
expense which it would have incurred in handling the
defendant's goods during the four years' period in suit,
which was estimated.
The defendant-while conceding that the loss of anticipated profits from the destruction or interruption of an
established business may be recovered where the amount
of the loss is made reasonably certain by competent
proof, Central Coal & Coke Co. v. Hartman (C. C. A.),
111 Fed. 96, 98-contends that there was a lack of com-

EASTMAN CO. v. SOUTHERN PHOTO CO. 377
359

Opinion of the Court.

petent proof of such damages in that the profits earned
by the plaintiff during the preceding four years in which
it had been a customer of the defendant, were improperly
used as a standard by which to measure the damages sustained by the plaintiff during the period covered by the
suit, since during such preceding years it had participated
in the defendant's unlawful acts in furtherance of the
monopoly and was in par- delicto.
There was, as stated by the Court of Appeals, evidence
from which the jury could justly reach the conclusion that
the plaintiff was not a party to the monopoly in pari
delicto with the defendant, and that the plaintiff had complied with the defendant's restricted terms of sale merely
for the reason that otherwise it could not purchase or
secure the goods necessary in the conduct of its business.
There was also affirmative evidence, not contradicted,
tending to show that under the defendant's restricted
terms of sale the dealers' profits did not exceed those on
the sale of goods of other manufacturers not parties to
the monopoly.
The jury was instructed, in substance, that if, during
the preceding period in which the plaintiff had been a
customer of the defendant, it had not merely bought goods
from the defendant because of a business necessity, but,
with a knowledge of the defendant's purpose to monopolize, had knowingly and willfully helped to build up the
monopoly, it was in pari delicto, and hence could not
recover any damages whatever on account of the defendant's refusal to continue to sell it goods; and, further, that
even if the plaintiff had not been a party to the monopoly,
it could not recover damages on the basis of the profits
which it had earned while a customer of the defendant to
the extent that they had been increased by the monopoly
and exceeded those in a normal business, but that they
must be reduced to the basis of normal profits.
We find, under the circumstances of this case, nothing
in these instructions of which the defendant may justly

378

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

complain. See Ramsay Co. v. Bll Posters Assn., 260
U. S. 501, 512. The statement in Victor Talking Mach.
Co. v. Kemeny (C. C. A.), 271 Fed. 810, 819, on which
the defendant relies was based on the assumptions that
the plaintiff had not only been a party to the unlawful
combination, but that his earlier profits had exceeded
those which "he could earn lawfully in a competitive
market." And in Eastman Kodak Co. v. Blackmore
(C. C. A.), 277 Fed. 694, 699, the substance of the holding
was that the profits made by the plaintiff during an
earlier period ending in 1902, in which he had actively
participated in the unlawful combination, could not be set
up as the standard of the profits which he would have
realized in a much later period commencing in 1908.
The defendant further contends that, apart from this
question the plaintiff's damages were purely speculative,
not proved by any facts from which they were logically
and legally inferable, and not of an amount susceptible of
expression in figures, Keogh v. C. & N. W. Ry. Co., 260
U. S. 156, 165. In support of this contention it is urged
in argument, inter alia, that there was no showing as to
the separate cost of handling the defendant's goods during
the preceding four years; that if the plaintiff's entire business be considered as a unit and the total expenses and
costs of goods be deducted from the entire receipts, it is
shown to have had a net loss in the two years preceding
1910, but to have made a substantial net profit in that and
the succeeding year; that the estimate as to the additional
expense which the plaintiff would have incurred in handling the defendant's goods during the period in suit,
was purely conjectural and speculative; and that it was a
mere assumption, discredited by the testimony, that the
plaintiff could have sold as large a quantity of the defendant's goods during the period in suit, after taking over a
line of other goods, as it had before.
As to this question the Court of Appeals-after stating
that in its opinion the plaintiff's evidence would have sup-

EASTMAN CO. v. SOUTHERN PHOTO CO. 379
359

Opinion of the Court.

ported a much larger verdict than that returned by the
jury-said: "The plaintiff had an established business,
and the future profits could be shown by past experience.
It was permissible to arrive at net profits by deducting
from the gross profits of an earlier period an estimated
expense of doing business. Damages are not rendered
uncertain because they cannot be calculated with absolute
exactness. It is sufficient if a reasonable basis of computation is afforded, although the result be only approximate." This, we think, was a correct statement of the
applicable rules of law. Furthermore, a defendant whose
wrongful conduct has rendered difficult the ascertainment
of the precise damages suffered by the plaintiff, is not
entitled to complain that they cannot be measured with
the same exactness and precision as would otherwise be
possible. Hetel v. Baltimore & Ohio R. R., 169 U. S. 26,
39. And see Lincoln v. Orthwei (C. C. A.), 120 Fed.
880, 886.
We conclude that plaintiff's evidence as to the amount
of damages, while mainly circumstantial, was competent;
and that it sufficiently showed the extent of the damages,
as a matter of just and reasonable inference, to warrant
the submission of this question to the jury. The jury was
instructed, in effect, that the amount of the damages could
not be determined by mere speculation or guess, but must
be based on evidence furnishing data from which the
amount of the probable loss could be ascertained as a
matter of reasonable inference. And the question as to
the amount of the plaintiff's damages having been properly submitted to the jury, its determination as to this
matter is conclusive.
The judgment is accordingly
Affirmed.

