OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Syllabus.

273 U. S.

There is no support for the contention that the enforcement of the Act deprives it of its property without due
process of law. Undoubtedly, the State has power in
the public interest reasonably to control and regulate the
use of its highways so long as it does not directly burden
or interfere with interstate commerce. Packard v. Banton, 264 U. S. 140, 144; Kane v. New Jersey, 242 U. S.
160; Hendrick v. Maryland, 235 U. S. 610. Cf. Opinion
of the Justices, 251 Mass. 594, 596. The terms of the
Act are not arbitrary or unreasonable.
Appellant has
not applied for and does not show that it is entitled to
have a license from the local authorities or a certificate
of public necessity and convenience from the department.
Plainly, it has no standing to attack the validity of
the statute as a violation of the due process clause.
Decree affirmed.

FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION v. PACIFIC
STATES PAPER TRADE ASSOCIATION.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 71. Argued December 8, 1926.-Decided January 3, 1927.
1. Where the facts stipulated before the Federal Trade Commission
showed that wholesale dealers dominating the trade in a certain
commodity in several States were members of local and general
trade associations; that uniform prices in intrastate sales were fixed
and diligently enforced by the local associations, and in the case of
one of them, were, by understanding among its members, to be
applied to sales made outside of the State; that each local association applied the local prices to sales made locally but filled by direct
shipment from outside mills; and that the salesmen of each, in
making sales beyond its State, habitually quoted prices from the
same lists which were controlling locally-the Commission was justified in inferring that such use of the lists in sales over the state
line lessened competition and fixed prices in interstate commerce,

FED. TRADE COM. v. PAC. PAPER ASSN.
52

Argument for Petitioner.

although it did not appear expressly that the fixed prices were
made obligatory by rule, or were adhered to, in such interstate
business. P. 61.
2. An understanding, express or tacit, that agreed prices will be
followed in interstate sales, is enough to constitute transgression of
the law. P. 62.
3. Organized maintenance of uniform prices in local business may lend
probative significance and weight to facts pointing in the direction
of like restraint in interstate business. P. 62.
4. Agreements between wholesalers, by which they fix prices to be
charged retailers within the State for goods to be shipped on the
wholesaler's order from mills directly to the retailer or to the wholesaler for delivery to him, are agreements to fix prices in interstate
commerce, in cases where the seller elects to procure the goods and
their shipment from mills outside the State. P. 63.
5. An order of the Federal Trade Commission forbidding agreements
fixing prices for sales to be filled by shipments from outside the
State, and the making or distributing of price lists to be used in
such sales, is valid. P. 66.
6. A respondent in certiorari who did not seek review for himself is
not entitled to question the correctness of the decree of the court
below. P. 66.
4 Fed. (2d) 457, reversed in part.

CERTIORAR (268 U. S. 684) to a judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals reviewing, and in part setting aside or
modifying, an order of the Federal Trade Commission,
requiring the respondents to cease and desist from certain
practices which are described in the opinions, here and in
the court below. The respondents, included, besides individuals, five local trade associations whose members were
wholesale dealers and jobbers in paper, two associations or
conferences made up of two or more of the local associations, and a general association, the membership of which
was drawn from all five of the local associations.

Mr. Adrien F. Busick, with whom Solicitor General
Mitchell and Mr. Bayard T. Hainer were on the brief, for
the petitioner.
Agreements by which wholesalers fix prices to be
charged retailers within the State for paper shipped on

54

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Argument for Petitioner.

273 U. S.

the wholesaler's order direct from mills outside the State
to the wholesaler's retail customers are agreements to fix
prices in interstate commerce. "Commerce among the
States is not a technical legal conception, but a practical
one drawn from the course of business." Swift & Co. v.
United States, 196 U. S. 375. It exists apart from any
contract. Whenever commodities flow in a constantly
recurring stream from one State to another, this flow constitutes cormnerce itself. Swift & Co. v. United States,
supra; Dahnke Milling Co. v. Bondurant, 257 U. S. 282;
Lemke v. Farmers' Grain Co., 258 U. S. 50; Stafford v.
Wallace, 258 U. S. 495; Chicago Board of Trade v. Olsen,
262 U. S. 1.
All negotiations and contracts looking to the introduction of commodities from one State to another are a part
of the commerce and within the regulating power and
protection of the commerce clause. Crenshaw v. Arkansas, 227 U. S. 389; Robbins v. Shelby County Taxing
Dist., 120 U. S. 489; Stewart v. Michigan, 232 U. S. 665;
Rearick v. Pennsylvania, 203 U. S. 507; Dozier v. Alabama, 218 U. S. 124; Davis v. Virginia, 236 U. S. 697.
The purchase of commodities within one State, though
the transaction be one entered into and performed wholly
within the State, is a part of interstate commerce, where
the proof is that the commodity so purchased is, after
purchase, habitually shipped beyond the limits of the
State. Dahnke Milling Co. v. Bondurant, supra; Lemke
v. Farmers' Grain Co., supra. Likewise the sale at destination after interstate shipment and before the goods are
commingled with property within the State is a part of
interstate commerce. Swift & Co. v. United States,
supra;Stafford v. Wallace, supra. Thus all of the transactions immediately connected with the movement of the
goods, both at the point of origin of the movement and
at destination, are a part and parcel of the commerce.
See Addyston Pipe Co. v. United States, 175 U. S. 211;
Western Union Tel. Co. v. Foster,247 U. S. 105; Missouri

FED. TRADE COA. v. PAC. PAPER ASSN.
52

55

Argument for Petitioner.

v. Kansas Gas Co., 265 U. S. 298; Peoples Nat. Gas Co. v.
Pub. Serv. Comm. of Pa., 270 U. S. 550.
The fact that the contracts of sale between the wholesalers, members of the associations, and their retail customers are negotiated within the State, does not take the
transaction out of interstate commerce.
Where goods are brought into the State to satisfy contracts of sale previously made, the transactions are interstate commerce not subject to state regulation. Western
Union Tel. Co., v. Foster, supra; Sonneborn v. Cureton,
262 U. S. 506. The fact that the wholesaler's contract
with the retailer does not in terms require the former to
ship direct from the mill does not defeat federal jurisdiction. See cases cited and Western Oil Ref. Co. v. Lipscomb, 244 U. S. 346. Nor is the absence of any privity of
contract between the mill owner and the retail customers
of the wholesalers in any way controlling in deternining
whether the agreements with respect to these direct shipments are subject to federal control. Western Union Tel.
Co. v. Foster, supra. Ware & Leland v. Mobile County,
209 U. S. 405, distinguished. But even if the sales by the
wholesalers to their retail customers for direct shipment
from without the State were not a part of interstate commerce, the agreements fixing prices on such sales so
directly affect and burden interstate commerce as to be
within federal control.
The use in interstate commerce of the list of agreed
prices binding with respect to sales within the several
States, lessens competition in interstate commerce and
may be prohibited by the Federal Government. The conclusion which the Commission drew from the admitted
evidentiary facts is a conclusion of fact unmixed with any
question of law. Levins v. Revegno, 71 Cal. 273. The
Commission's findings as to the facts if supported by
evidence are conclusive. Federal Trade Comm. v. Curtis
Publishing Co., 260 U. S. 568; Nat. Harness Mfrs. Assn.

56

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Argument for Respondents.

273 U. S.

v. Federal Trade Comm., 261 Fed. 170; Federal Trade
Commission v. Winsted Hosiery Co., 258 U. S. 483; Amer.
Column Co. v. United States, 257 U. S. 377; United States
v. Amer. Oil Co., 262 U. S. 371; Federal Trade Comm. v.
Beech-Nut Packing Co., 257 U. S. 441.
Mr. Warren Olney, Jr., with whom Messrs. Edward J.
MeCutchen and Allan P. Matthew were on the brief, for
the respondents.
A contract of sale between parties in the same State for
goods to be delivered within that State, which may be
filled by the seller at his option, by goods from whatever
source he pleases, is not made a sale in interstate commerce by the fact that the seller chooses to supply the
goods by ordering them from a manufacturer without the
State. Ware & Leland v. Mobile County, 209 U. S. 405;
Banker Bros. Co. v. Pennsylvania,222 U. S. 210; Public
Utilities Commission v. Landon, 249 U. S. 236; Wagner v.
Covington, 251 U. S. 95; Moore v. New York Cotton
Exchange, 270 U. S. 593; Ward Baking Co. v. Federal
Trade Commission, 264 Fed. 330; Winslow v. Federal
Trade Commission, 277 Fed. 206, Certiorari denied, 258
U. S. 618; Kansas City StructuralSteel Co. v. Arkansas,
269 U. S. 148.
The Commission's order, par. (b), in so far as it forbids the use by the respondents in combination, in the
making or soliciting of interstate sales, of price lists issued by any local association or otherwise agreed upon,
is without support in and contrary to the record. In
so far as it forbids such use by the respondents "separately," it is contrary to law. In order that an act may
come within the prohibition of the Anti-trust Act there
must be present the element of combination or concert
of action between two or more persons. In so far as the
Anti-trust Act is concerned, any individual dealer has
the right to do what he pleases in the conduct of his
business regardless of the effect on interstate commerce,

FED. TRADE COM. v. PAC. PAPER ASSN.
52

Argument for Respondents.

provided only he act independently and not in conjunction with others. Federal Trade Commission v. Raymond Bros. Co., 263 U. S. 565; Western Sugar Ref. Co. v.
Federal Trade Comm., 275 Fed. 725. Paragraph (b), in
so far as it forbids the defendants from compiling or publishing any joint or uniform price list for use in interstate commerce, is without support in and contrary to
the record.
This Court ought to consider the objections made by
the respondents to paragraphs (e) and (g) and (h) of
the Commission's order which were overruled by the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals. Distinguishing
Hubbard v. Todd, 171 U. S. 474; Montana Mining Co. v.
St. Louis Mining Co., 186 U. S. 24; French Republic v.
Saratoga Vichy, 191 U. S. 427; Alice State Bank v. Houston Pasture Co., 247 U. S. 242. On certiorari the entire
record is before the Court, with full power to decide the
case as it was presented to the Circuit Court of Appeals.
See Lutcher & Moore Lumber Co. v. Knight, 217 U. S.
257, 267; Delk v. St. Louis, etc., Co., 220 U. S. 580; Cole
v. Ralph, 252 U. S. 286. From the foregoing decisions
we take it (a) that the full record is not only physically
but legally before the Court with full power to direct
such disposition of the cause as the Circuit Court of Appeals might have done; (b) that, whether the Court will
consider all the grounds of objection to the judgment
below or confine itself to those only which are alleged
in the petition for certiorari, is a matter of the Court's
discretion in the particular case; and (c), that as a rule
the Court will pass on all the questions presented by the
record so that its mandate when it goes down will be
finally determinative of the controversy. We would also
call the Court's attention to the fact that, unless it now
disposes of the objections of the respondents to the judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals, its mandate is not
necessarily final. If that judgment should be modified

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

as to paragraphs (b) and (c) of the Commission's order,
the modified judgment would then be the judgment in
the Circuit Court of Appeals and the time within which
the present respondents might petition this Court for
certiorari would run from the entry of the judgment as
so modified. On such petition the respondents would not
be precluded as to their objections to the judgment in
respect to paragraphs (e), (g) and (h) of the order unless
this Court had already passed on those objections; and
the Court would have to consider then the very objections
which it has the power to consider and determine now.
Klauber v. San Diego, etc., Co., 98 Cal. 105; Lambert v.
Bates, 148 Cal. 146; Adkins v. Children's Hospital, 261
U. S. 525.

Mni. JUSTICE

BUTLER

delivered the opinion of the Court.

The Federal Trade Commission made an order requiring respondents to cease and desist from certain methods
of competition in interstate commerce found to be in
violation of § 5, of the Federal Trade Commission Act of
September 26, 1914, c. 311, 38 Stat. 717. 7 Federal Trade
Commission Decisions 155. The order contains eight
paragraphs designated by letters (a) to (h) inclusive.
The respondents brought (b), (c), (e), (g) and (h) under
review in the Circuit Court of Appeals. The first two
were set aside, paragraph (e) was modified, and the last
two were allowed to stand. 4 F. (2d) 457. This court
granted certiorari (268 U. S. 684) on petition of the commission, which asks reversal of the decree as to paragraphs (b) and (c). No petition has been filed by respondents.
The facts were stipulated; and those here material are:
Dealers in paper in each of the five principal jobbing centers in the States on the Pacific Coast have a local association. These centers are Seattle and Tacoma taken as
one, Spokane, Portland, San Francisco and Los Angeles.

FED. TRADE COM. v. PAC. PAPER ASSN.
52

59

Opinion of the Court.

And there is a general association known as the Pacific
States Paper Trade Association whose members are the
paper dealers in these centers including most but not all
of the members of the local associations, and some who
do not belong to a local association. The respondents in
this case are the five local associations, the general association, and their members.
The territory served by the members of each local association, while loosely defined, is that naturally tributary
to the center where the members are located. The territory of Seattle and Tacoma is the northwestern part of
Washington and Alaska; that of Spokane is eastern
Washington, northern Idaho and western Montana; that
of Portland is Oregon, southerly Washington and part of
southern and western Idaho; that of San Francisco is the
north half of California, a small portion of southern Oregon, and part of Nevada; and that of Los Angeles is the
south half of California and part of Nevada and Arizona.
A majority of the dealers in the Pacific Coast States are
members of the associations, and they have 75 per cent.
of the business in paper and paper products, exclusive of
roll news paper, which for the most part is not handled
by them.
Each local association distributes uniform price lists to
its members to be observed in its territory within the
State. The secretary of each is authorized to investigate
complaints against members to determine whether they
sell below the established prices; and three of the associations authorize the imposition of heavy fines on members for making such sales.
The Spokane Association in its list of prices established
for Washington printed "suggested prices" for sales to
purchasers in Idaho and western Montana, and there was
a tacit or implied understanding that the prices suggested
would be observed.
And these association lists are habitually carried and
used by the salesmen of members in quoting prices and

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

making sales outside the State. No association has any
requirement that such price lists be observed outside the
State; and the quoting of, or the making of sales at, lower
or different prices in such territory is not deemed an infraction of rules or trade regulations by reason of which
any jobber or wholesaler may complain.
Among the prices fixed by each local association for
sales by its members within the State where they are
located are prices on what are called "mill shipments."
These are sales or orders not requiring immediate delivery
and capable of being filled by shipment from the place of
manufacture. They include less than carload lots and
also carload lots. The former are combined with other
paper to make a carload which is shipped to the wholesaler as a single consignment. At destination the delivery is taken by the wholesaler and the portion intended
for the purchaser is turned over to him. The carload
shipments are made on directions specifying as the point
of destination the place where delivery is to be made from
the wholesaler to the purchaser. In some cases the wholesaler, in other cases the purchaser, is named as consignee.
When so named the wholesaler either takes delivery and
turns over the shipment to the purchaser or endorses the
bill of lading to the purchaser who then receives the paper
directly from the carrier. Where named as consignee, the
purchaser takes delivery. In all cases the wholesaler
orders the paper from the mill and pays for it. There is
no contractual relation between the manufacturer and the
purchaser from the wholesaler. These shipments are
made from mills within and also from those without the
State covered by the agreement fixing prices.
The commission in its findings substantially follows the
stipulated facts, and, from them it draws certain inferences or conclusions. Referring to the prices fixed by the
local associations, the commission said the habitual carrying and use of such price lists by member jobbers in

FED. TRADE COM. v. PAC. PAPER ASSN.
52

Opinion of the Court.

quoting prices and making sales outside the State, have
a natural tendency to and do limit and lessen competition
therein, and the result of such practice is fixed and uniform prices for such products "within such territories. As
to mill shipments, the commission finds the facts in accordance with the stipulation, and conclules that mill
shipments from points outside the State to or for purchasers within the State are in interstate commerce until
delivered to the purchaser, and that the inclusion of fixed
and uniform prices for such sales in the price lists of the
associations eliminates price competition.
Paragraph (b) of the commission's order is to prevent
the local associations, their officers and members, separately or in combination, from using any price list fixed
by agreement between wholesalers in soliciting or selling
in interstate commerce, and from making and distributing any such price list intended for use in making such
sales. Paragraph (c) prohibits making or acting under
agreements fixing prices on mill shipments when the paper
sold is shipped from outside the State where the wholesaler is located, and the making or distributing of price
lists to be used for making such sales.
The Circuit Court of Appeals held that the stipulated
facts do not sustain the commission's finding that the
use of association prices by members outside the State
where they are located has a tendency to lessen competition and to fix uniform prices in such territories. The
validity of the inference or conclusion drawn by the commission and of this part of the order depends upon the
proper estimation of the facts stipulated. The language
specifically relating to such use of the agreed prices if considered alone might possibly be deemed insufficient. But
the commission is not confined to so narrow a view of the
case. That part of the stipulation properly may be taken
with all the admitted facts and the inferences legitimately
to be drawn from them.

62

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

The members of the associations dominate the paper
trade in question. They are organized to further common purposes. They limit competition in intrastate
trade by adherence to uniform prices fixed by agreements
through combination. The facts admitted show a strong
purpose and much diligence to that end. And some of
their activities are for like purpose and have the same
effect in the field of interstate commerce. Suggested
prices for Idaho and Montana were sent out with the
Spokane lists. There was an understanding that such
prices would be followed. Mill shipments, whether
shipped from within or from without the State, are subject to the agreed prices. From the standpoint of respondents, restraint upon price competition in their interstate commerce is as desirable as in their business local
to the States. In both classes of business, they are stimulated by the same motive to lessen competition. All the
salesmen while in intrastate territory are required to sell
at prices fixed by agreement. And, when across the state
line in interstate territories, they use the agreed lists in
quoting prices and making sales. It does not appear
whether the prices so fixed are adhered to in interstate business. The fact that there is no established rule that the
lists shall be followed in taking orders for interstate shipments or that the quoting of lower prices is an infraction
for which complaint may be made is not controlling in
favor of respondents. An understanding, express or tacit,
that the agreed prices will be followed is enough to constitute a transgression of the law. No provision to compel adherence is necessary. It would appear difficult for
these jobbers to maintain a uniform price list in the State
while making sales across the line at different and competing prices. The effective combination to restrain price
competition on one side of the state line is not consistent
with the absence of such restraint on the other. The
organized maintenance of uniform prices in business local

FED. TRADE COM. v. PAC. PAPER ASSN.
52

Opinion of the Court.

to the States lends probative significance and weight to
facts pointing in the direction of like restraint in the interstate territories. The use of the association prices by all
the salesmen in making sales in interstate territories is
not necessarily to be regarded as coincidence. There is
ample ground for saying that such use results from the
admitted combination. The failure of the stipulation to
contain any direct statement on the subject does not require it to be found that salesmen are free to depart from
the prices furnished them, or that the list used by one
differs or may differ from that used by others in the same
locality.
The weight to be given to the facts and circumstances
admitted, as well as the inferences reasonably to be drawn
from them, is for the commission. Its conclusion that
the habitual use of the established list lessens competition and fixes prices in interstate territory cannot be said
to be without sufficient support. Paragraph (b) does not
go beyond what is justified by the findings. It is valid.
Paragraph (c) applies only to mill shipments from one
State to another. For the consummation of a transaction
involving such a shipment, two contracts are made. The
first is for sale and delivery by wholesaler to retailer in the
same State. The seller is free to have delivery made from
any source within or without the State. The price
charged is that fixed by the local association. The other
contract is between the wholesaler and the manufacturer
in different States. There is no contractual relation between the manufacturer and retailer. By the shipment of
the paper from a mill outside the State to or for the
retailer, the wholesaler's part of the first contract is performed. The question is whether the sale by the wholesaler to the retailer in the same State is a part of interstate commerce where, subsequently at the instance of
the seller and to perform his part of the contract, the
paper is shipped from a mill in another State to or for

OCTOBER TERM1, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

the retailer. "Commerce among the States is not a
technical legal conception, but a practical one, drawn from
the course of business." Swift and Company v. United
States, 196 U. S. 375, 398. And what is or is not interstate comnrerce is to be determined upon a broad consideration of the substance of the whole transaction.
Dozier v. Alabama, 218 U. S. 124, 128. Such commerce is
not confined to transportation, but comprehends all commercial intercourse between different States and all the
component parts of that intercourse. And it includes the
buying and selling of commodities for shipment from one
State to another. Dahnke-Walker Co. v. Bondurant, 257
U. S. 282, 290; Lemke v. Farmers Grain Co., 258 U. S.
50, 55. The absence of contractual relation between the
manufacturer and retailer does not matter. The sale by
the wholesaler to the retailer is the initial step in the
business completed by the interstate transportation and
delivery of the paper. Presumably the seller has then
determined whether his source of supply is a mill within
or one without the State. If the contract of sale provided
for shipment to the purchaser from a mill outside the
State, then undoubtedly it would be an essential part of
commerce among the States. Sonneborn Bros. v. Cureton,
262 U. S. 506, 515. Clearly the absence of such a provision does not affect the substance of the matter when in
fact such a shipment was contemplated and made. Cf.
Dozier v. Alabama, supra; Western Union Tel. Co. v.
Foster, 247 U. S. 105, 113; Lemke v. Farmers Grain Co.,
supra, 55. The election of the seller to have the shipment
made from a mill outside the State makes the transaction
one in commerce among the States. And on these facts
the sale by jobber to retailer is a part of that commerce.
The lower court cites and quotes from Ware and Leland
v. Mobile County, 209 U. S. 405. Respondent cites Moore
v. N. Y. Cotton Exchange, 270 U. S. 593, and asserts that
it is identical with the last mentioned case and with the

FED. TRADE COM. v. PAC. PAPER ASSN.
52

65

Opinion of the Court.

one now before us. In the Ware and Leland case, brokers
at their office at Mobile, Alabama, took orders from customers to buy and sell contracts for future deliveries of
cotton and grain and sent the orders to another office of
theirs for execution on an exchange. or board of trade in
New York, New Orleans or Chicago. Such contracts were
for the most part closed out by sale or purchase of other
contracts necessary to cover them. No actual deliveries
were made except in a few instances; and then they were
made outside Alabama at the place where the orders were
sent for execution. Deliveries, if any, of cotton purchased
for a customer were made to the brokers at the places
where the exchanges are located. When the Mobile office
of brokers made delivery of cotton on the sale of a future
for a customer, the cotton was shipped by the customer
from Alabama to the place of sale and there delivered
through the brokers to the buyer. Delivery of grain on
such contracts, when required, was made at Chicago. In
the Moore case, the contracts considered were between
members of the exchange made for the purchase or sale
of cotton for future delivery; the cotton was represented
by warehouse receipts issued by a licensed warehouse in
New York and was deliverable from the warehouse. The
transactions on exchanges and boards of trade, which were
considered in these cases, are essentially local in character. It was well understood that they might be closed
out without any delivery. And, while for the most part
if not wholly, the cotton and grain deliverable under these
contracts originated in other States and had theretofore
been transported in interstate commerce, it was not contemplated by the parties, seller or buyer, that delivery
would be made while the commodity remained in such
commerce. It would be a mere chance if any such transaction should be completed by delivery of the commodity
while still the subject of commerce among the States.
42847 °-27-5

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

When regard is had to the facts and known course of
business, it is quite clear that the transactions considered
in these cases are essentially different from the mill shipments now before us.
And, as the contracts between the wholesaler and the
retailer constitute a part of commerce among the States,
the elimination of competition as to price by the application of the uniform prices fixed by the local associations
was properly forbidden by the order of the commission.
Paragraph (c) is valid.
Respondents, notwithstanding their failure to petition
for certiorari, now ask for reversal of that part of the
decree which leaves in force part of paragraph (e) and
paragraphs (g) and (h). This court has the same power
and authority as if the case had been carried here by
appeal or writ of error. A party who has not sought
review by appeal or writ of error will not be heard in an
appellate court to question the correctness of the decree
of the lower court. This is so well settled that citation is
not necessary. The respondents are not entitled as of
right to have that part of the decree reviewed. Hubbard
v. Tod, 171 U. S. 474, 494; French Republic v. Saratoga
Vichy Co., 191 U. S. 427, 440; Alice State Bank v.
Houston Pasture Co., 247 U. S. 240, 242. Cf. Hamilton
Shoe Co. v. Wolf Brothers, 240 U. S. 251, 257. And, assuming power, we are not moved by any persuasive consideration to examine the parts of the commission's order
to which respondents object.
That part of the decree which sets aside paragraphs
(b) and (c) of the commission's order is reversed.

