126

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Statement of the Case.

273 U.S.

and willfully making such false representations or
promises or knowingly taking advantage of said fraud
shall be liable in exemplary damages to the person defrauded in such amount as shall be assessed by the jury
not to exceed double the amount of the actual damages
suffered." Exemplary damages are recoverable at common law in many States. A statute providing for their
recovery by and for the injured party is not a penal law.
Huntington v. Attrill, 146 U. S. 657, 666-683. Compare
Atchison, T. & S. F. Ry. v. Nichols, 264 U. S.348, 350351. No reason appears why the cause of action arising
under the Texas statute should not be enforced in Illinois.
The Texas statute as applied in this case does not add
any extraordinary feature to the common law liability for
fraudulent representations. There is nothing in the
public policy of Illinois with which the statutory cause
of action is inconsistent. It is not shown that substantial
justice between the parties cannot be done consistently
with the forms of procedure and the practice of the federal
courts for Illinois.
Reversed as to James-Dickinson Farm Mortgage Co.
Affirmed as to A. D. Dickinson.
MISSOURI, EX REL. WABASH RAILWAY COMPANY
v. PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF MISSOURI.

No. 69. Argued December 10, 1926.-Decided January 10, 1927.
Upon review of a judgment of a state court, this Court has jurisdiction to decide questions of state law concerning the construction,
and effect on the case, of a state statute enacted since the decision
below was made; or it may refer such questions to the state court
by reversing and remanding the case. P. 130.
306 Mo. 149, reversed.

ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Missouri which sustained an order of the Public Service Corn-

MISSOURI,
126

EX REL.

V. PUB. SERV. COMM.

127

Opinion of the Court.

mission requiring the Wabash Railway Company to
abolish a grade crossing in St. Louis. The Chicago, Rock
Island & Pacific Railway Company was also a party to
the proceedings and joined in suing out the writ of error.
Messrs. Homer Hall and Frederic D. McKenney, with
whom Messrs. Marcus L. Bell, W. F. Dickinson, and
Luther Burns were on the brief, for the plaintiffs in
error.
Messrs. Oliver Senti and Marion C. Early, with whom
Messrs. D. D. McDonald, Julius T. Muench, and Lawrence McDaniel were on the brief, for the defendants in
error.
MR. JUsTIcE SToN

delivered the opinion of the Court.

The mayor of St. Louis instituted a proceeding before
the Public Service Commission of the State of Missouri
to eliminate a grade crossing of the Wabash Railway
Company at Delmar Boulevard in the City of St. Louis.
The Commission ordered the Wabash Railway to abolish
this grade crossing by depressing its tracks and constructing a viaduct for street traffic, with an 18 feet clearance
above the tracks. This order, set aside by the Circuit
Court*of Cole County, was reinstated by the Supreme
Court of Missouri. 306 Mo. 149. The case is here on
writ of error to that court on the ground that the order
results in an unconstitutional deprivation of property,
impairs the obligation of contract, and violates par. 18,
§ 1, of the. Interstate Commerce Act. Jud. Code, § 237,
before amended.
All the proceedings below were limited in their purpose
and effect to the removal of the single grade, crossing
named. There is no dispute that the hazardous character
of the crossing makes the separation of grades necessary.
The controversy arises from the fact that the change in
grade at Delmar Boulevard is the initial step in a general

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

scheme for abolishing all grade crossings within an extensive area of the city. Both the railroad and the city have
evolved comprehensive plans for grade crossing elimination. The essential difference between the two programs
is that the city proposes the depression of the railroad
tracks with a consequent elevation of streets spanning the
tracks by viaduct, while the railroad urges the elevation
of the tracks upon embankments, leaving the streets at
their present level. The Delmar Boulevard crossing is so
situated that the Commission's order directing depression
of the railroad tracks there is a virtual, though not legal,
adoption of the city plan to the extent that other crossings at grade in the vicinity can, as a practical matter,
be eliminated only by depressing the tracks. The Commission, however, expressly disclaimed passing on other
details of the plan. A consideration of the proposed
plans is necessary for a fuller understanding of the issues
involved, although our review is limited to the immediate
change at Delmar Boulevard directed by the order.
The Wabash Railway passes from Delmar Boulevard
southeasterly through a residential district, thence through
Forest Park. The location of its tracks within this large
public park was fixed by a contract with the park commissioners. The Chicago, Rock Island and Pacific Railway Company, also a party to the proceeding, enters the
city from the west, crosses the right of way of the Wabash
several squares southeast of Delmar Boulevard, runs parallel with both the Wabash tracks and the northern end
of Forest Park, and then joins the Wabash line, whose
tracks it uses through the park to the Union Terminal.
Its right to use the tracks is defined by the contract considered in Joy v. St. Louis, 138 U. S. 1. It is not directly
affected by the Commission's order except insofar as the
separation of grades at Delmar crossing amounts to an
adoption of the city plan causing a change of level of the

MISSOURI,

EX REL.

v. PUB. SERV. COMM.

129

Opinion of the Court.

126

Wabash tracks at other crossings and requiring a similar
change of its own.
The city plan, in its principal features, calls for the
lowering of all the tracks within a cut screened from view,
the relocation of the tracks within the park so that the
railroad would intersect with fewer streets as it emerges
from the park, and the construction of viaducts with a
vertical clearance of 18 feet. The plan also provides for
the depression or abandonment of part of the Rock
Island's tracks, for proper safeguards to be taken to
obviate the danger of flood from a neighboring stream,
and the purchase of additional land to increase the width
of the right of way uniformly to 100 feet within a designated area. The railroad plan makes unnecessary the
change of location of the right of way in the park, but
involves the construction of unsightly embankments which
would materially reduce the value of residential property
in the district. Each party makes claim for its plan the
advantages of safety, economy, numerous mechanical and
engineering conveniences and the avoidance of certain
mechanical and engineering hazards, all or most of which,
it is insisted, the other lacks. The Commission found
that either plan is practicable from an engineering standpoint. The parties differ principally with respect to the
prospective costs, the details of which, in view of the disposition to be made of the case, need not be considered.
Treating the Commission's order as an approval and
effective adoption of the entire city plan, plaintiffs in
error contend that the order deprives them of their property without due process of law; that it impairs the
Wabash Railway's charter, its contract with the park
commissioners by which the present right of way of the
railroad was located in Forest Park, and the contract
under which the Rock Island is now using the tracks of
the Wabash through the park, all in violation of Article
42847°-27-9

130

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

I, § 10, of the Constitution. It is also urged that the
order by its indirect adoption of the comprehensive city
program calling for a partial abandonment and relocation
of tracks is invalid as violating par. 18, § 1, of the Interstate Commerce Act, which requires a certificate of public
convenience and necessity from the Interstate Commerce
Commission before tracks may be abandoned or relocated.
To support the burden of proving that the order of the
Commission is arbitrary and unreasonable, plaintiffs in
error criticize numerous engineering features of the city's
plan, especially the provision of an 18 feet clearance
between tracks and viaduct, which is characterized as
dangerous to life and limb.
While the federal questions thus raised, so far as they
relate to the order now before us, are not difficult of solution, in view of the complexity of the facts to which the
principles announced by this Court are to be applied, we
cannot say that these questions are so unsubstantial as
to deprive us of jurisdiction to pass upon them and to
make proper disposition of the case as it is now presented.
Erie R. R. v. Pub. Util. Comm., 254 U. S. 394; Mo. Pac.
Ry. v. Omaha, 235 U. S. 121; Denver & R. G. R. R. v.
Denver, 250 U. S. 241; cf. R. R. Comm. v. Southern Pac.
Co., 264 U. S. 331. But we find it unnecessary to decide
these questions because of the situation which has been
created since the entry of the judgment below by the
enactment of the Railroad Clearance Act, Laws of Missouri of 1925, pp. 323, 324. That statute provides that
clearances over railroad tracks shall not be less than 22
feet "except in cases in which the public service commission finds that such construction is impracticable." The
state Commission directed that the clearance at Delmar
Boulevard crossing be 18 feet, but it made no finding that
the construction of a 22 feet clearance is impracticable.
There is thus presented a question of state law; the effect

MISSOURI,
126

EX EEL.

v. PUB. SERV. COMM.

131

Opinion of the Court.

of this statute upon the Commission's order, the judgment of the state Supreme Court and upon action taken
pursuant to them.
Ordinarily this Court on writ of error to a state court
considers only federal questions and does not review questions of state law, Murdock v. City of Memphis, 20 Wall.
590; Detroit & Mackinac Ry. v. Paper Co., 248 U. S. 30.
But where questions of state law arising after the decision
below are presented here, our appellate powers are not
thus restricted. Either because new facts have supervened
since the judgment below, Kimball v. Kimball, 174 U. S.
158; cf. Watts, Watts & Co. v. Unione Austriaca, 248
U. S. 9, 21; Meccano, Ltd. v. John Wanamaker, 253
U. S. 136, 141, or because of a change in the law, Steamship Co. v. Joliffe, 2 Wall. 450; Gulf, Col. & S. F. Ry. v.
Dennis, 224 U. S. 503, this Court, in the exercise of its
appellate jurisdiction, may consider the state questions
thus arising and either decide them, Steamship Co. v.
Joliffe, supra, or remand the cause for appropriate action
by the state courts. Gulf, Col. & S. F. Ry. v. Dennis,
8upra; Dorchy v. Kansas, 264 U. S. 286. The meaning
and effect of the state statute now in question are primarily for the determination of the state court. While
this Court may decide these questions, it is not obliged
to do so, and in view of their nature, we deem it appropriate to refer the determination to the state court.
Dorchy v. Kansas, supra, 290, 291. In order that the
state court may be free to consider the question and make
proper disposition of it, the judgment below should be set
aside, since a dismissal of this appeal -might leave the
judgment to be enforced as rendered. Gulf, Col. & S. F.
Ry. v. Dennis, supra, 509. The judgment is accordingly
reversed and the cause remanded for further proceedings.
Reversed.

