OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
273 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

SMITH

ET AL.

v. WILSON

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS.

No. 648. Argued January 5, 6, 1927.-Decided February 21, 1927.
1. Section 266 of the Judicial Code, as amended by the Act of
February 13, 1925, does not require a court of three judges on the
final hearing unless an application for preliminary injunction was
pressed to a hearing. In that case, an appeal either from the
determination on the preliminary application or from the final
decree may be taken directly to this Court. P. 391.
2. If the plaintiff does not press an application for an interlocutory
injunction, the final hearing may be before a single judge, whose
decision may be reviewed by the .Circuit Court of Appeals and this
Court under other applicable provisions of the Code. Id.
3. Whether it is erroneous for three judges to sit at final hearing in
a case in which there was no application for an interlocutory
injunction, is not here decided. Id.
Appeal from 13 F. (2d) 1007, dismissed.
APPEAL

from a final decree of the District Court (of

three judges) in a suit to enjoin officials of Texas from
levying assessments on plaintiffs' land, and issuing bonds,
under a plan of navigation improvement authorized by a
state law which the bill challenged as violative of the
Fourteenth Amendment.
Mr. A. D. Lipscomb, with whom Messrs. Frederick S.
Tyler and R. E. Selagler were on the brief, for appellants.
Mr. A. R. Rucks, with whom Messrs. Lewis R. Bryan,
C. D. Jessup, and Louis J. Wilson were on the brief, for
appellees.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
Appellants, some of whom are citizens of Texas, filed
their bill in the district court for southern Texas against

SMITH v. WILSON.
388

Opinion of the Court.

appellees, the county commissioners of Brazoria County,
certain tax officials of that county, and the commissioners
of the Brazos River Harbor Navigation District and
others, all citizens of Texas. The relief prayed was a
preliminary and final injunction restraining appellees
from levying assessments on appellants' land and from
issuing or selling bonds pursuant to a plan authorized by
the Act of February 19, 1925, c. 5, General Laws of Texas,
7, creating a taxing district to raise funds to defray the
cost of a proposed improvement of navigation at the
mouth of the Brazos River.
The jurisdiction of the district court was based solely
upon allegations in the bill that the Texas statutes and
the proceedings had under them for the formation of the
Brazos River Harbor Navigation District violated the due
process and equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth
Amendment to the Federal Constitution.
No application was made for a preliminary injunction.
Testimony was taken before a special master and final
hearing had before three judges on the assumption that
a trial by three judges was required by § 266 of the Judicial Code, as amended by the Act of February 13, 1925.
From the judgment of the district court, dismissing the
bill on the merits, 13 Fed. (2d) 1007, the case has been
brought here by direct appeal under §§ 238 and 266 of
the Judicial Code as amended, which permit an appeal
from a final decree in an injunction suit of this kind in
which the final hearing must be had before three judges,
as provided in that section. The jurisdiction of this Court
turns on whether or not § 266, as amended, required the
hearing below to be before three judges.
Section 266 before the amendment of February 13, 1925,
required, as it still does, all applications for an interlocutory injunction restraining state officers from enforcing
state statutes or orders of administrative boards or com

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

missions, upon the ground of unconstitutionality, to be
heard by a court of three judges. But as the section
then stood, the final hearing might be had before a single
district judge who might arrive at a different conclusion
from that reached on the preliminary hearing by the three
judges, one of whom was a justice of the Supreme Court
or a circuit judge. Compare Patterson v. Mobile Gas
Co., 271 U. S. 131, and Lemke v. Farmers Grain Co., 258
U. S. 50. To remove this anomaly and save the right of
direct appeal to this Court from the operation of the
repealing provisions of the Act of February 13, 1925,
§ 266 was amended by the addition of the following
provisions:
"The requirement respecting the presence of three
judges shall also apply to the final hearing in such suit
in the district court; and a direct appeal to the Supreme
Court may be taken from a final decree granting or denying a permanent injunction in such suit."
See Ex parte Buder, 271 U. S. 461, 465.
It is to be noted that this amendment provides that
the "requirement" of a court of three judges "shall also
apply" to the final hearing "in such suit." The question now presented is whether the phrase "such suit"
was intended to refer only to a suit in which a preliminary
injunction had been in fact sought or to a suit in which
an application for such an interlocutory injunction might
have been but in fact was not made. Before the amendment the section applied only when interlocutory relief
was actually sought, regardless of the scope of the bill,
and direct appeal to this Court was permitted only from
the determination of the court of three judges on such
an application. The general purpose of the Act of February 13, 1925 was to relieve this Court by restricting the
right to a review by it. Moore v. Fidelity & Deposit Co.,
272 U. S. 317. The specific purpose of the amendment to

SMITH v. WILSON.
388

Opinion of the Court.

§266, as already noted, was to end the anomalous situa,
tion in which a single district judge, on the final hearing,
might reconsider and decide questions already passed
upon by the three judges on the application for an interlocutory injunction. Both purposes are accomplished if
the amendment is taken as its language suggests, not to
extend the application of the section with respect either
to the requirement of three judges or the right of direct
appeal to any case in which an interlocutory injunction
is not sought.
We conclude that the section as amended does not
require a court of three judges on the final hearing unless
an application for preliminary injunction is pressed to a
hearing. In that case, an appeal either from the determination on the preliminary application or from the final
decree may be taken directly to this Court. The plaintiff is thus given an election. He may either make application for an interlocutory injunction, which must be
heard by three judges, in which case the final hearing
must be before a like court with appeal directly to this
Court, or he may not press an application for an interlocutory injunction, in which case the final hearing
may be before a single judge, whose decision may be
reviewed by the circuit court of appeals and this Court
under other applicable provisions of the Judicial Code.
Here there was no application for an interlocutory injunction and hence no necessity for a final hearing before three
judges, although it may not have been erroneous for three
judges to sit, a question we do not find it necessary to
decide. There is therefore no jurisdiction in this Court
to hear the appeal, which must accordingly be
Dismissed.

