OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Syllabus.

273 U. S.

It is not necessary to consider whether the petitioner
goes too far in contending that § 402(c) should be construed to refer only to transfers of property the possession
or enjoyment of which does not pass from the grantor
until his death. But it seems to us tolerably plain, that
when the grantor parts with all his interest in the property
to other persons in trust, with no thought of avoiding
taxes, the fact that the income vested in the beneficiaries
was to be accumulated for them instead of being handed
to them to spend, does not make the trust one intended to
take effect in possession or enjoyment at or after the
grantor's death.
Judgment reversed.

FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF HARTFORD, WISCONSIN, v. CITY OF HARTFORD ET AL.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF WISCONSIN.
No. 186. Argued December 13, 1926.-Decided March 21, 1927.
1. Upon review of a judgment of a state court sustaining a discriminatory state tax on national bank shares upon the ground that the
other moneyed capital, favored by the discrimination, was not employed in competition with the business of the national bank, this
Court may review the evidence regarding such competition and is
not concluded by the finding of the state court. P. 552.
2. The validity, under Rev. Stats. § 5219, of a state tax on national
bank shares at a greater rate than that assessed on other moneyed
capital depends upon whether or not the moneyed capital thus
favored is employed in such a manner as to bring it into substantial competition with the business of national banks. P. 552.
3. The requirement of approximate equality in taxation (R. S. § 5219)
is not limited to moneyed capital invested in state banks or to competing capital employed in private banking; it applies wherever
capital, substantial in amount compared with the capitalization of
national banks, is employed in a business, or by private investors,
in the same sort of transactions as those in which national banks
engage and in the same locality in which they do business. Pp.
555, 557.

FIRST NATIONAL BANK v. HARTFORD.
548

540

Counsel for Parties.

4. The amendment of § 5219, by Act of March 4, 1923, merely expressed what was previously implied, and by its terms excludes
from "moneyed capital" only those personal investments which
are not in competition with the business of national banks. P. 557.
5. Proof of competition by untaxed capital involves showing that it
is employed in such investments as are open to national banks.
P. 558.
6. In this case the evidence shows substantial competition with
national banks by untaxed capital in the business of making loans
and selling credits and also by capital of private individuals who,
as investors of surplus funds, were engaged in lending money at
interest on real estate mortgages and other evidences of indebtedness, normal to banking. P. 558.
7. To establish the fact of competition, it is not necessary to show
that national banks and the other investors solicit the same customers for the same loans or investments. It is enough if both
engage in seeking and securing in the same locality investments
of the class described which are substantial in amount. P. 559.
8. The sale of real estate mortgages and other evidences of debt
acquired by way of loan or discount with a view to reinvestment
is within the incidental powers of national banks. P. 559.
9. The fact that discrimination against national bank shares is not
unfriendly or hostile but is induced by the state policy of substituting income taxes for personal property taxes, does not render
Rev. Stats. § 5219 inapplicable. P. 560.
187 Wis. 290, reversed.

ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Wisconsin in a suit brought by the bank to recover from the
City of Hartford the amount of a tax assessed and collected upon shares of its stock. The court below reversed
a judgment for the plaintiff and directed the trial court
to enter a judgment dismissing the complaint.
Mr. Arthur W. Fairchild,with whom Messrs. George P.
Miller, Edwin S. Mack, J. Gilbert Hardgrove, and E. W.
Sawyer were on the brief, for plaintiff in error.
Mr. Edward J. Dempsey, with whom Messrs. Herman
L. Ekern, Attorney General of Wisconsin, Franklin E.
Bump, Assistant Attorney General, Edward M. Smart,

OCTOBER TERM, 1026.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

J. C. Russell, and Lloyd Mitchell were on the brief, for
defendants in error.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
Plaintiff in error, a national banking association doing
business in Wisconsin, brought suit in the circuit court of
Washington County, Wisconsin, to recover from the defendant in error, the City of Hartford, a tax assessed and
paid for the year 1921 upon shares of stock in plaintiff
bank, on the ground that the assessment and tax were
prohibited by § 5219 of the Revised Statutes of the United
States (Act of June 3, 1864, c.' 106, 13 Stat. 99, 112; Act
of February 10, 1868, c. 7, 15 Stat. 34). The tax having
been paid under protest, a suit for its recovery, raising the
legality of the assessment, is permitted by local statutes.
Wis. Stat. 1923, § 74.73.
The trial court held the assessment illegal and gave
judgment for the plaintiff. On appeal, the Supreme
Court of Wisconsin reversed the judgment with a direction to the court below to enter judgment in favor of the
defendant, dismissing the complaint. 187 Wis. 290. The
case comes here on writ of error under § 237 of the Judicial
Code. Merchants'National Bank v. Richmond, 256 U. S.
635, 637; First National Bank v. Anderson, 269 U. S.
341, 346.
The contention here is that the State Supreme Court
erred in holding that these tax statutes are not repugnant
to § 5219 Revised Statutes.
National banks are not merely private moneyed institutions but agencies of the United States created under
its laws to promote its fiscal policies; and hence the banks,
their property and their shares cannot be taxed under
state authority except as Congress consents and then only
in conformity with the restrictions attached to its consent." FirstNational Bank v. Anderson, supra, 347; Des
Moines Bank v. Fairweather,263 U. S. 103, 106. Con-

FIRST NATIONAL BANK v. HARTFORD.
548

551

Opinion of the Court.

gress, by appropriate legislation, has permitted the taxation of shares in national banks subject to certain restrictions. Section 5219 sanctions such taxation in the state
where the bank is located, subject to the restriction that
"the taxation shall not be at a greater rate than is assessed
upon other moneyed capital in the hands of individual
citizens of such State." By decisions of this Court construing this language, it is established that the phrase
"other moneyed capital" does not embrace all moneyed
capital not invested in bank shares, but "only that which
is employed in such way as to bring it into substantial
competition with the business of national banks." First
National Bank v. Anderson, supra, 348. Hence the question presented by this record is whether the tax imposed
upon the shares of stock of plaintiff under the Wisconsin
statutes is at a greater rate than that imposed upon
other moneyed capital in the hands of individual citizens
of Wisconsin employed in substantial competition with
national banks.
By § 70.31 of the Wisconsin statutes, an ad valorem
tax is assessed upon all shares of banks, including national
banking associations, as personal property within the
assessment district in which the bank is located. Section
70.11 exempts from such taxation "all moneys or debts
due or to become due to any person and all stocks and
bonds, including bonds issued by any county, town, city,
village, school district, or other political subdivision of
this state, not otherwise specially provided for."
Acting under these statutes, the taxing authorities
imposed the tax now in question, but made no assessment and levied no tax upon credits or intangible property other than the shares of stock in banking corporations.
The. State of Wisconsin imposes a tax upon incomes, including incomes derived from credits. The court below
assumed, and it was not questioned upon the argument
here, that this tax is not to be taken as an equivalent or

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

substitute for the ad valorem tax levied upon bank shares
and no question of the possible equivalence of the two
schemes of taxation is presented. From the sections cited,
it appears that the tax statutes of Wisconsin discriminate
in favor of moneyed capital and capital investments within
the state, represented by credits or intangibles, and against
that invested in shares in banking corporations.
But it is not sufficient to show this discrimination
alone. The validity of the tax complained of depends
upon whether or not the moneyed capital in the state thus
favored is employed in such a manner as to bring it into
substantial competition with the business of national
banks.
The question thus raised involves considerations both
of fact and of law. To answer it, it is necessary to ascertain the nature and extent of the moneyed capital in the
hands of individual citizens within the state and the relation of its employment, in point of competition, to the
business of plaintiff and other national banks. It is
necessary also to ascertain the precise meaning to be
given the statute as applied to the facts in hand in order
to determine whether the particular moneyed capital and
the particular competition with which we are here concerned are moneyed capital and competition within the
spirit and purpose of the statute. The question is thus a
mixed one of law and fact, and in dealing with it we may
review the facts in order correctly to apply the law.
Truax v. Corrigan,257 U. S. 312, 325; Kansas City Southern Ry. v. Albers Commission Co., 223 U. S. 573, 591;
Northern Pac. Ry. v. North Dakota, 236 U. S. 585, 593;
Jones National Bank v. Yates, 240 U. S. 541, 552, 553;
cf. Merchants' National Bank v. Richmond, supra, 638
The opposite view expressed in Jenkins v. Neff, 186 U. S.
230, 235, must be considered discarded by the later cases.
Also, as the case is brought here from a state court for
review on the ground that a federal right there set up

FIRST NATIONAL BANK v. HARTFORD.
548

553

Opinion of the Court.

was denied, this Court is not concluded by a finding of
the state court that the asserted right is without basis in
fact. Aetna Life Ins. Co. v. Dunken, 266 U. S. 389, 394;
Southern Pac. Co. v. Schuyler, 227 U. S. 601, 611.
The evidence shows that plaintiff in the course of its
business receives deposits, loans money, has a savings
department, deals in exchange, buys and sells notes, government and other bonds, discounts commercial paper and
acquires real estate mortgages by loan and purchase. On
the trial, plaintiff called numerous witnesses who gave
testimony, uncontradicted by defendant, tending to show
the nature and extent of various classes of moneyed capital in the hands of individuals in the state and the nature
of its employment in competition with the business carried on by national banks. There are real estate firms
engaged in lending money to individuals in the vicinity
of plaintiff's banking house, the amount thus loaned
amounting annually from $250,000 to $300,000. According to the testimony, the making of these loans affords
the same competition to plaintiff as loans made by banks.
And similar conditions obtain throughout the state.
There are various individuals, co-partnerships and corporations in the vicinity engaged in the business of acquiring and selling notes, bonds, mortgages and securities.
Substantial capital is employed in their business. Others,
having their place of business in Milwaukee and in Chicago, are engaged within the state in the business of buying and selling securities both in the vicinity of plaintiff's banking house and elsewhere, and employ capital
for that purpose. Securities thus acquired and offered
for sale include public utility and other forms of bonds,
notes and farm mortgages. In 1921, one company alone,
having its place of business in Milwaukee but doing business throughout the state, including the vicinity of plaintiff's bank, sold approximately $25,000,000 of bonds and
other securities. This company is shown to be affiliated

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

with and its stock held principally by stockholders of the
First Wisconsin National Bank of Milwaukee, and to have
been organized for the purpose of taking over the business of the bank in dealing in securities. Neither the
capital employed in these various enterprises by individuals or corporations, so far as invested in the credits, nor
the shares held by investors in such corporations is subjected to the ad valorem tax.
Upon this evidence, the trial court found that during
1921 moneyed capital in the hands of individual citizens
in the vicinity of plaintiff's banking house, amounting to
many hundreds of thousands of dollars, which was not
assessed for taxation nor taxed, was employed in a manner which brought it into competition with the business
conducted by national banks, including that of plaintiff.
It also found that moneyed capital to the extent of
millions of dollars held by individual citizens throughout
the state, and employed in a manner which brought it
into competition with such banks, was similarly exempt
from this taxation.
The State Supreme Court held that it was not concluded by these findings of mixed law and fact. Since
the Wisconsin tax law is one of state-wide application,
it took judicial notice of the general conditions within
the state to which the law applies, and reached the conclusion that there was no capital in the hands of individual citizens which was invested or used in substantial
competition with capital invested in shares of national
banks.
In so doing, it pointed out that under § 224.03 (Wis.
Stat. 1923) all persons, firms and corporations doing a
banking business are required to incorporate as banks and
their shares are taxed in the same way and at the same
rate as shares in national banks. As the basic ground
for its decision, the court stated that in consequence of
these statutes, "there are no concerns or individuals

FIRST NATIONAL BANK v. HARTFORD.
548

555

Opinion of the Court.

within the state of Wisconsin engaged in enterprises in
which the capital employed in carrying on its business,
is money, 'where the object of the business is the making
of profit by its use as money,' except banks. All such
persons, firms and corporations are required under the
laws of the state of Wisconsin to organize as banks."
But the Wisconsin statutes requiring those engaged in
the banking business to incorporate as banks are expressly
limited in their application to those engaged in "soliciting, receiving or accepting of money or its equivalent on
deposit as a regular business." Wis. Stat. 1923, § 224.02.
They have no application to transactions already described which formed the basis of the trial court's finding that competition existed. It is not denied, and
indeed it affirmatively appears from the evidence, that
there are individuals, firms and corporations in Wisconsin,
not required by its laws to be incorporated as banks,
engaged in the business of loaning money on the security
of notes, bonds, and mortgages, and buying and selling
securities, all involving investment and reinvestment by
them and their customers. Through the activities of these
business concerns, large investments are made and remade
in such securities. Large amounts of capital are thus
employed in some of the ordinary banking activities
although these individuals and firms do not receive
deposits.
The state court did not ignore this evidence. It conceded that the local tax statutes were in fact discriminatory. But it apparently construed the decisions of
this Court as requiring equality in taxation only of moneyed capital invested in businesses substantially identical
with the business carried on by national banks. Consequently, since that class of business must under the Wisconsin statutes be carried on in corporate form and capital
invested in it is taxed at the same rate as national bank
shares, other moneyed capital, as defined in § 5219, within

556

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

the state, it thought, was not favored. Under this view,
if logically pursued, capital invested in businesses engaged
in some but not all of the activities of national banks as
well as that employed by individuals in investment and
reinvestment in securities such as we have described
could not be considered in determining the question of
competition.
But this Court has recently had occasion, in reviewing
the earlier decisions dealing with this subject, to point out
that the requirement of approximate equality in taxation
is not limited to investment of moneyed capital in shares
of state banks or to competing capital employed in
private banking. The restriction applies as well where
the competition exists only with respect to particular
features of the business of national banks or where
moneyed capital "is employed, substantially as in the
loan and investment features of banking, in making
investments by way of loan, discount or otherwise, in
notes, bonds or other securities, with a view to sale or
repayment and reinvestment." First National Bank v.
Anderson, supra,348. In so doing, it followed the holding
in Mercantile Bank v. New York, 121 U. S. 138, 157, that,
"The terms of the act of Congress, therefore, include
shares of stock or other interests owned by individuals
in all enterprises in which the capital employed in carrying on its business is money, where the object of the
business is the making of profit by its use as money.
The moneyed capital thus employed is invested for that
purpose in securities by way of loan, discount, or otherwise, which are from time to time, according to the rules
of the business, reduced again to money and reinvested.
It includes money in the hands of individuals employed
in a similar way, invested in loans, or in securities for the
payment of money, either as an investment of a permanent character, or temporarily with a view to sale or
repayment and reinvestment. In this way the moneyed

FIRST NATIONAL BANK v. HARTFORD.
548

557

Opinion of the Court.

capital in the hands of individuals is distinguished from
what is known generally as personal property, ....
The amendment to § 5219 (Act of March 4, 1923,
c. 267, 42 Stat. 1499), passed after the present tax was
levied, provides that "bonds, notes, or other evidences
of indebtedness in the hands of individual citizens not
employed or engaged in the banking or investment business and representing merely personal investments not
made in competition with such business, shall not be
deemed moneyed capital within the meaning of this section." (Italics ours.) It is said that this enactment is a
legislative interpretation of § 5219 as it stood prior to the
amendment; that consequently a narrower interpretation
must be given to this section than in earlier cases, and
that under the section before and as amended, personal
investments of individuals should, under no circumstances, be deemed included in the term competing capital.
But as was pointed out in First NationalBank v. Anderson, supra, 350, the amendment did no more than put
into express words that "which according to repeated
decisions of this Court was implied before." By its terms
the amendment excludes from moneyed capital only those
personal investments which are not in competition with
the business of national banks.
Competition may exist between other moneyed capital
and capital invested in national banks, serious in character
and therefore well within the purpose of § 5219, even
though the competition be with some but not all phases
of the business of national banks. Section 5219 is not
directed imerely at discriminatory taxation which favors
a competing banking business. Competition in the sense
intended arises not from the character of the business of
those who compete but from the manner of the employment of the capital at their command. No decision of this
Court appears to have so qualified § 5219 as to permit discrimination in taxation in favor of moneyed capital such

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

as is here contended for. To so restrict the meaning and
application of § 5219 would defeat its purpose. It was
intended to prevent the fostering of unequal competition
with the business of national banks by the aid of discrininatory taxation in favor of capital invested by institutions
or individuals engaged either in similar businesses or in
part icular operations or investments like those of national
banks. Mercantile Bank v. New York, supra, 155. With
the great increase in investments by individuals and the
growth of concerns engaged in particular phases of banking shown by the evidence in this case and in Minnesota v. First National Bank of St. Paul, today decided,
post, p. 561, discrimination with respect to capital thus
used could readily be carried to a point where the business
of national banks would be seriously curtailed. Our conclusion is that § 5219 is violated wherever capital, substantial in amount when compared with the capitalization
of national banks, is employed either in a business or by
private investors in the same sort of transactions as those
in which national banks engage and in the same locality in
which they do business.
Some of the cases dealing with the technical significance
of the term competition in this field were decided before
national banks were permitted to invest in mortgages as
they now are. Act of December 23, 1913, c. 6, § 24, 38
Stat. 251, 273; Act of September 7, 1916, c. 461, 39 Stat.
752, 754; Act of February 25, 1927, § 24. And others go
no further than to hold that in the absence of allegation
and proof of competition with national banking capital,
it cannot be said that an offending discrimination exists.
And it is not sufficient to show that untaxed capital is
invested in loans and securities without showing also that
the class of investments favored is open to national banks.
Here, large amounts of capital are shown to be invested
in businesses carried on throughout the state which are of
the same character as some though not all of the business

FIRST NATIONAL BANK v. HARTFORD.
548

559

Opinion of the Court.

carried on by national banks. In two fields at least, loans
and sales of credits, capital thus employed is shown to be
in substantial competition with that of national banks.
The evidence might have been directed more in detail to
the precise character of the competition. But that offered
was uncontradicted, and when it was shown that national
banks in the State of Wisconsin having a capital and surplus in excess of fifty millions of dollars are engaged in
the business of making loans, and that there is an extensive loan business in the state not subjected to the tax
burdens of national banks, and it was testified directly that
this business came into competition with the business of
plaintiff and other national banks, we think that the finding of the trial court was supported by the evidence and
should not have been disturbed.
There was also, we think, sufficient evidence that private individuals as investors of surplus funds are engaged
in loaning money at interest on real estate mortgages and
other evidences of indebtedness such as normally enter
into the business of banking and that these investments
are of substantial amount. We do not conceive that in
order to establish the fact of competition it is necessary to
show that national banks and competing investors solicit
the same customers for the same loans or investments. It
is enough as stated if both engage in seeking and securing
in the same locality capital investments of the class now
under consideration which are substantial in amount.
It is argued that national banks are not authorized to
deal in bonds or other evidences of indebtedness and that
§ 5219 was not intended to protect them from discriminatory taxation in favor of moneyed capital employed in
a business in which they may not engage. But it is not
necessary for the purposes of this case to determine the
precise limits of their powers. They are given authority,
in addition to loaning money, to exercise all such "incidental powers" as shall be necessary to carry on the busi-

560

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

ness of banking "by discounting and negotiating promissory notes, drafts, bills of exchange, and other evidences
of debt." § 5136 Revised Statutes. They are authorized,
with certain limitations, to loan money on real estate
mortgages. Act of December 23, 1913, supra;Act of September 7, 1916, supra; Act of February 25, 1927, § 24.
Here plaintiff is shown to have investments in real estate
mortgages and to be engaged in selling them. The sale
of mortgages and "other evidences of debt" acquired by
way of loan or discount with a view to reinvestment is,
we think, within the recognized limits of the incidental
powers of national banks. Compare FirstNational Bank
v. Anderson, supra, 348; Mercantile National Bank v.
New York, supra, 156. To that extent the business of acquiring and selling such mortgages and evidences of debt,
carried on by numerous individuals, firms, and corporations in Wisconsin, comes into competition with this incidental business of national banks. That the exercise of
this incidental power has become of great importance in
the business of national banks appears from the Report
of the Comptroller of the Currency for 1924, 44 et seq.,
showing that approximately one-third of the investment
of national banks consist of Government, railroad, public
service corporation and other bonds, and "collateral trust
and other corporation notes."
Finally it is said that § 5219 is directed to an unfriendly
discrimination or hostile attitude on the part of a state
and that here the Wisconsin legislation was not dictated
by such considerations, since the challenged exemptions
were merely incidental to the adoption of a state policy of
substituting, so far as possible, an income for a personal
property tax. But a consideration of the entire course of
judicial decision on this subject can leave no doubt that
state legislation and taxing measures which by their necessary operation and effect discriminate against capital invested in national bank shares in the manner described are

MINNESOTA v. FIRST NATIONAL BANK.
548

561

Syllabus.

intended to be forbidden. The questions here considered
arising from the application of an ad valorem tax are not
affected by the amendment of § 5219 by the Act of March
4, 1923, c. 267, 42 Stat. 1499, which permits in lieu of the
ad valorem tax on shares of national banks either a nondiscriminatory tax on the income of national banks or on
the income derived from their shares.
Judgment reversed.
MINNESOTA v. FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF ST.
PAUL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
MINNESOTA.

No. 245.

Argued December 13, 1926.-Decided March 21, 1927.

1. The taxation of national bank shares, authorized by Rev. Stats.
§ 5219, is against the holders of the shares and is to be measured
by the value of the shares, and not by the assets of the bank without deducting its liabilities. P. 564.
2. A tax on national bank shares at a greater rate than that imposed
on competing credits in the hands of individuals can not be sustained upon the ground that the discrimination is removed in practice by deducting liabilities of the bank from its assets in valuing
its shares, while allowing no deduction of their liabilities to individuals in valuing their credits. P. 564.
3. The shares of corporations employing capital in the note brokerage
business or in buying and selling securities are "moneyed capital in
the hands of individual citizens" (R. S. § 5219), i. e., the individuals
holding the shares. P. 566.
4. The competition guarded against by § 5219 may arise from
the employment of capital invested in a business, even though the
competition be with some but not all phases of the business of
national banks, or it may arise from the employment of capital
invested by institutions or individuals in particular operations or
investments like those of national banks. P. 566.
5. The evidence sustains a finding by the state court that moneyed
capital in the hands of individuals was in competition with the
business of national banks, including the plaintiff. P. 567.
42847 °-27-36

