SWISS OIL CORP. v. SHANKS.
392

Syllabus.

A certain latitude may rightly be given the court in permitting a witness on direct examination to testify as to his
conclusions, based on common knowledge or experience.
Compare Erie R. R. v. Linnekogel, 248 Fed. 389; 2 Wigmore, § 1929. Even if these questions could properly have
been allowed here, we cannot say that the discretion of the
court was improperly exercised in excluding the conclusions of the witnesses as to competitive conditions when
full opportunity was given to prove by relevant data the
conditions of the industry within the period in question.
Other objections urged by respondents to the sufficiency
of the indictment and charge have received our consideration but do not require comment.
It follows that the judgment of the circuit court of
appeals must be reversed and the judgment of the district
court reinstated.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER, MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

and MR. JUSTICE BUTLER dissent.
MR.

JUSTICE BRANDEIS took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
SWISS OIL CORPORATION v. SHANKS, AUDITOR.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE COMMONWEALTH
OF KENTUCKY.

No. 148. Argued January 21, 1927.-Decided February 21, 1927.
1. Upon review of a decision of a state court construing the state
law as denying the relief sought by the appealing party even if
the particular state statute attacked by him were assumed to be
invalid, the constitutionality of that statute is not involved in this

Court. P. 411.

408

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

2. A state tax, called a "license" or "franchise" tax, measured by
1% of the market value of the annual production and imposed, in
addition to general ad valorein property taxes, on producers of
petroleum only, is not in violation of the Equal Protection Clause
of the Fourteenth Amendment, even if itself a property tax, since a
separate classification of petroleum producers for tax purposes is
not palpably arbitrary or unreasonable. P. 412.
3. The Fourteenth Amendment does not require uniformity in taxation or fofbid double taxation. P. 413.

208 Ky. 64, affirmed.
ERROR to a judgment of the Court of Appeals of Ken-

tucky which reversed a judgment in mandamus commanding Shanks, as Auditor of Public Accounts, to issue
a warrant for a refund of taxes to the plaintiff Oil
Company.
Mr. A. Owsley Stanley, with whom Messrs. Edward L.
McDonald, Edward C. O'Rear, William T. Fowler, and
William L. Wallace were on the briefs, for plaintiff in
error.
Mr. Charles F. Creal, Assistant Attorney General of
Kentucky, with whom Mr. Frank E. Daugherty, Attorney General of Kentucky, was on the brief, for defendant
in error.

MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
The Swiss Oil Corporation, plaintiff in error, instituted
a mandamus proceeding in the Circuit Court of Franklin
County, Kentucky, to compel the state auditor, the
defendant in error, to issue a warrant for the refund of
taxes alleged to have been illegally assessed against it,
on the ground among others, that the taxing statute was
repugnant to the Constitution of the United States.
This is the appropriate procedure, under the state law,
for compelling a return to the taxpayer of taxes improperly collected. § 162, Carroll Ky. Stat. 1922; Craig,
Auditor v. Renaker, 201 Ky. 576.

SWISS OIL CORP. v. SHANKS.
407

409

Opinion of the Court.

The trial court gave judgment for plaintiff which was
reversed on appeal to the Court of Appeals of Kentucky.
208 Ky. 64. The case comes here on writ of error. Jud.
Code, § 237.
Plaintiff is engaged in producing crude oil in Kentucky
and delivering it to pipe lines for transportation to points
outside of the state. The tax in question was levied for
the period from March, 1922 to February, 1924, pursuant
to the Act of March 29, 1918, c. 122, Acts 1918, p. 540,
which requires those "producing crude petroleum oil" in
the state to pay "in lieu of all other taxes on the wells
producing said crude petroleum" an annual tax "of one
per centum of the market value of all crude petroleum
so produced." Section 3 of the Act provides "the tax
hereby provided for shall be imposed and attach when the
crude petroleum is first transported from the tanks or
other receptacles located at the place of production."
By other sections those engaged in the business of transporting oil are required to report to the tax officials, the
amount of oil transported by them and to pay the tax,
and they are authorized to collect the amount of the tax
from the producer, either in money or crude petroleum.
This Act, as stated in its title, is an amendment and
re-enactment of the Act of May 2, 1917, c. 7, Acts 1917,
p. 40, which similarly required oil producers to pay in
lieu of other taxes a "license" or "franchise" tax for
the "right or privilege of engaging in such business,"
within the state. The producers themselves, under the
1917 Act, were required to pay the tax and to report the
amount of the oil produced to the State Tax Commission
on the first day of July of that year and at the end of each
succeeding three months. The taxpayer was entitled,
under the 1917 Act, to notice of the valuation placed by
the Commission upon the oil produced and had ten days
from the time of receiving notice to go before the Commission and contest the valuation. He was privileged to

410

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

introduce evidence and the Commission was authorized,
after a hearing, to change the value set for taxation
purposes upon the oil produced.
This Act, as amended, was construed by the Kentucky
Court of Appeals, in an earlier decision, Raydure v. Board
of Supervisors, 183 Ky. 84. It there held that the legislature had no power under §§ 171 and 172 of the state
constitution to substitute the production tax authorized
by the Act of 1917 as amended by the Act of 1918 for
the ad valorem method of taxing oil producing property
required by the constitution, nor to exempt such property
from ad valorem taxation. Following this decision, the
wells and oil producing property of plaintiff and others
have been subjected to state, county and local ad valorem
taxes in addition to the production tax imposed upon
plaintiff.
Plaintiff in the state court drew in question the validity
of the Act of 1918 as thus construed under the Kentucky
constitution. It contended that if construed as imposing
a license tax, the statute was unconstitutional in attempting to substitute an occupation for the ad valorem tax
required by § 172 of the state constitution. The main
contention however was that the tax in substance was a
property and not a license tax and hence invalid under
§ 171 of the state constitution requiring uniform taxation,
since oil properties were subject to two property taxes
whereas other classes of property were subject to but one.
These contentions translated into terms of the Federal
Constitution were urged below and renewed here.
It is argued (a) that the Act of 1918 as construed and
administered by the state authorities imposes double taxation upon the plaintiff not put on other classes of property, thus denying the equal protection of the laws guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment; (b) that it
authorizes a tax upon interstate shipments, thus interfering with interstate commerce i violation of Art. I,

SWISS OIL CORP. v. SHANKS.
407

Opinion of the Court.

§ 8 of the Federal Constitution; (c) that the tax is assessed and collected without notice and without opportunity to the taxpayer to be heard, in violation of the
due process clause of the Fourteenth Amendment.
The court below upheld the tax as a license or production tax valid under the laws and constitution of Kentucky, notwithstanding the imposition of a separate ad
vaiorem tax upon the oil producing lands or leases. It
disposed of the objections to the tax under the Federal
Constitution, saying:
"Each of these criticisms is leveled at, and can affect
only, the amendment of 1918, and there is, and could be,
no criticism of the title of the original act passed in 1917,
or any claim that it imposed any burden upon interstate commerce, or that it did not afford the taxpayer
ample opportunity to be heard before the tax attached.
"The original act imposes, just as does the amendment,
a graduated occupational tax, measured by the amount
of business done by each and every oil producer in the
state. The amendment is simply a re-enactment of the
original act, with the latter's administrative features so
changed as to make the collection of the tax both more
certain and less burdensome upon the taxpayer and the
assessing and collecting officials. If any or all of the
above contentions are sound, the amendment would be
destroyed, but this would leave the original act in force,
and unamended. Precisely the same tax would have
been collected from oil producers in either event."
The court also pointed out that as this is a proceeding by
a taxpayer for a refund of taxes under a statute which
permits the refund only if the taxes paid were not due,
there could in any event be no recovery by the plaintiff
since the tax, if not due under the Act of 1918, was due
and payable under the Act of 1917.
As the case is brought here from a state court, the
construction put by the court below upon the statutes

412

OCTOBER TERM, 1026.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

and constitution of its own state is not open to review
here. Southwestern Oil Co. v. Texas, 217 U. S. 114, 119;
Brown-Forman Co. v. Kentucky, 217 U. S. 563, 569.
Since the Kentucky Court of Appeals has held that the
plaintiff is not entitled under the state law to the relief
prayed even if the Act of 1918 be deemed invalid, no
question as to the validity of that act under the Federal
Constitution is presented for decision on this record.
But plaintiff argues that this determination of the
state court presupposes the validity under the Federal
Constitution of the Act of 1917, which has the same vice
as the later act. It is contended, as it was of the Act of
1918, that the one per cent. production tax imposed is
in effect a property tax. Since the constitution of Kentucky as construed in Raydure v. Board of Supervisors,
supra, does not admit of the substitution of a production
tax for an ad valorem tax and requires the latter to be
levied in aUdition to the production tax, there is therefore double taxation not imposed on other classes of
property and hence a denial of the equal protection of
the laws guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment.
We are unable to distinguish the Act of 1917 in its
constitutional aspects from the statute of Kentucky imposing a license tax at the rate of one and one-fourth
cents per gallon upon those engaged in the business or
occupation of rectifying or blending spirits, considered
by this Court in Brown-Forman Co. v. Kentucky, supra.
There the tax imposed was assailed on the ground that
it was a property tax not assessed upon similar classes of
property whether produced within or without the state,
and that its imposition resulted in a denial of the equal
protection of the laws. But this Court, accepting the
state court's interpretation of the tax as a license tax,
upheld the statute as based upon a classification which
was neither arbitrary nor unreasonable, saying that the
reasonableness of the classification was the ultimate ques-

SWISS OIL CORP. v. SHANKS.
407

Opinion of the Court.

tion to be determined whether the tax be regarded as a
license or a property tax (p. 571). See also Southwestern
Oil Co. v. Texas, supra, where an occupation tax upon
wholesale dealers in coal and other mineral oils was upheld despite the fact that wholesale dealers in other commodities were not similarly taxed.
Without a labored analysis of the nature of the taxing
measure, we see no reason for not accepting the interpretation of the state court that this statute authorizes a
license tax to which there can be no serious constitutional
objection. Texas Co. v. Brown, 258 U. S. 466, 481;
Bowman v. Continental Oil Co., 256 U. S. 642, 649; cf.
Watson v. State Comptroller, 254 U. S. 122. But even
if regarded as a property tax, it is imposed alike upon
all crude oil produced within the state and there is nothing in the record to suggest that the classification is so
palpably arbitrary or unreasonable as to render it invalid.
Unlike the state constitution, Dawson v. Kentucky Distilleries Co., 255 U. S.288; Greene v. Louisville & Interurban R. R., 244 U. S.499, the Fourteenth Amendment
does not require uniformity of taxation, Davidson v. New
Orleans, 96 U. S. 97, 105, nor forbid double taxation.
St. Louis, S. W. Ry. v. Arkansas, 235 U. S.350, 367, 368;
Shaffer v. Carter,252 U. S. 37, 58; Fort Smith Lumber
Co. v. Arkansas, 251 U. S.532, 533; cf. Fidelity & Columbia Trust Co. v. Louisville, 245 U. S.54, 58; Cream of
Wheat Co. v. Grand Forks Co., 253 U. S. 325; Citizens
National Bank v. Durr, 257 U. S.99, 109. It is sufficient,
as stated, that there be some adequate or reasonable basis
for the classification. Kidd v. Alabama, 188 U. S. 730,
733; Watson v. State Comptroller, supra, 124, 125; Maxwell v. Bugbee, 250 U. S. 525, 540; Northwestern Life
Ins. Co. v. Wisconsin, 247 U. S. 132, 139; Coulter v.
Louisville & Nashville R. R., 196 U. S.599, 608, 609. The
particular classification adopted "is not open to objection unless it precludes the assumption that [it] was

414

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Counsel for Parties.

273 U. S.

made in the exercise of legislative judgment and discretion." Stebbins v. Riley, 268 U. S. 137, 143.
Judgment affirmed.

HAYMAN v. CITY OF GALVESTON

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF TEXAS

No. 155. Submitted January 21, 1927.--Decided February 21, 1927.
1. Quaere whether, in the circumstances mentioned in the opinion,
a regulation by a municipal hospital board excluding osteopathic
physicians from practicing in the hospital, was action by the
State, in the sense of the Fourteenth Amendment? P. 416.
2. A person not claiming to be a citizen of the State, or of the
United States, but having the right, under the state law, to practice his profession of osteopathic physician, is not deprived of
rights under the Federal Constitution,--the Privileges and Immunities Clause, and the Due Process and Equal Protection clauses of
the Fourteenth Amendment-by a regulation excluding osteopaths
from practicing in a hospital maintained by the State and its
municipality partly for the instruction of medical students attending the state university. P. 416.
3. In Art. XVI, § 31, of the Constitution of Texas, the limitation
that "no preference shall ever be given by law to any schools
of medicine" is directed only to qualifications for frtmission to
practice. P. 417.
Affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree dismissing for want of equity a
bill to enjoin the respondents from excluding appellant,
or other osteopathic physicians, from practicing their profession in the hospital maintained by the City of Galveston and from denying admission to patients who wish
to be treated by appellant or other osteopathic physicians.
Mr. D. A. Simmons for appellant, submitted.
No appearance for appellees.

