UNITED STATES v. LOS ANGELES R.R.
284

299

Syllabus.

in recent opinions. Meyer v. Nebraska, 262 U. S. 390;
Bartels v. Iowa, id. 404; Pierce v. Society of Sisters, 268
U. S.510. While that amendment declares that no State
shall "deprive any person of life, liberty or property without due process of law," the inhibition of the Fifth
Amendment-" no person shall . . . be deprived of
life, liberty or property without due process of law "applies to the federal government and agencies set up by
Congress for the government of the Territory. Those
fundamental rights of the individual which the cited cases
declared were protected by the Fourteenth Amendment
from infringement by the States, are guaranteed by the
Fifth Amendment against action by the Territorial Legislature or officers.
We of course appreciate the grave problems incident to
the large alien population of the Hawaiian Islands. These
should be given due weight whenever the validity of any
governmental regulation of private schools is under consideration; but the limitations of the Constitution must
not be transcended.
It seems proper to add that when petitioners present
their answer the issues may become more specific and
permit the cause to be dealt with in greater detail.
We find no abuse of the discretion lodged in the trial
court. The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals must be
Affirmed.
UNITED STATES ET AL. v. LOS ANGELES & SALT
LAKE RAILROAD COMPANY.
APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 414.

Argued January 3, 4, 1927.-Decided February 21, 1927.

1. A " final" valuation of the property of a railroad by the Interstate
Commerce Commission, pursuant to § 19a of the Act to Regulate

300

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Argument for the United States.

273 U. S.

Commerce as amended, is merely the statement of the result of an
investigation, and is not such an order as may be reviewed by a suit
against the United States to annul and enjoin the use of such valuation or "order," under the Act of October 22, 1913, or under the
general equity powers of the District Court. Pp. 308, 314.
2. The statutory provision making such valuations prima facie evidence in all proceedings under the Act to Regulate Commerce, and
in all judicial proceedings to enforce that Act or to enjoin, set aside,
annul, or suspend, any order of the Commission, is not a violation
of the due process clause of the Fifth Amendment justifying proceedings to annul the valuation order. P. 311.
3. Paragraph (j) of § 19a, providing that "if upon the trial of any
action involving a final value fixed by the Commission, evidence
shall be introduced regarding such value which is found by the court
to be different from that offered upon the hearing before the Commission, or additional thereto and substantially affecting the value,"
the proceedings shall be stayed so as to permit the Commission to
consider the same and fix a final value different from that fixed
in the first instance and to "alter, modify, amend or rescind any
order which it has made involving such final value," does not refer
to so-called orders fixing only valuations. P. 312.
4 F. (2d) 736; 8 F (2d) 747, reversed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court, annulling

and enjoining the use of a valuation of a railroad property made by the Interstate Commerce Commission.
The suit was by the railroad against the United States.
The Commission intervened.
Mr. Blackburn Esterline, Assistant to the Solicitor
General, with whom Attorney General Sargent was on
the brief, for the United States.
The rule of prima facie evidence "is simply a rule
changing the burden of proof." The legislature has absolute control over such rules. Mobile R. R. Co. v. Turnipseed, 219 U. S. 35; Wigmore, vol. 2, 2d ed., § 1356. Sec.
16 of the Interstate Commerce Act provides for the use
of the rule in reparation cases and this Court has sustained it. Meeker v. Lehigh Valley, 236 U. S. 412; Mills
v. Lehigh Valley, 238 U. S. 473; Spiller v. A. T. & S. F.,

UNITED STATES v. LOS ANGELES R. R.
299

301

Argument for the United States.

253 U. S. 117; St. Louis S. W. v. Commission, 264 U. S.
64; Pittsburgh & W. Va. v. United States, 6 Fed. (2d)
646; Commerce Court Act, June 18, 1910, § 13.
The Commerce Court Act and the Urgent Deficiencies
Act do not confer the jurisdiction of the speciallyconstituted District Court over every order entered by
the Commission. Procter & Gamble v. United States,
225 U. S. 282; Lehigh Valley v. United States, 243 U. S.
412; United States v. Ills. Central, 244 U. S. 82. The
fact that the valuation is styled an order is immaterial.
Del. & Hud. v. United States, 266 U. S. 438.
In destroying the valuation the District Court also
destroyed the statute; for a valuation preliminarily adjudged to be void may not be offered as primna fade evidence. The District Court threw the entire tak of
valuation of railway property out of the Commission
and into the courts and utterly defeated not only the
purpose of Congress but also thirteen years of work by
the Commission at the expenditure of many millions of
dollars. The Valuation Act neither provides nor contemplates such procedure.
When the tentative valuation becomes final, it may be
used as prima facie evidence in proceedings before the
Commission and in judicial proceedings. When the valuation is offered and received in any proceeding before
the Commission as prima facie evidence, the door of the
Commission is still open to the carrier or any party in
interest to assail the valuation, with additional evidence
or otherwise,-which is the second hearing. If an order
reducing rates is then entered, and the carrier or any
other interested party files a bill in the appropriate District Court to enjoin, and evidence is received before the
District Court, the case must be referred back to the
Commission for its action before final action is taken by
the court, which is the third hearing. If the Commission fails to modify its order the case then again comes

302

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Argument for Appellee.

273 U. S.

before the court for final determination, which is the
fourth hearing. Thus four hearings in orderly sequence
are allowed by the Valuation Act.
The carrier claims the right to another hearing by an
original bill to strike down the final valuation the instant it is issued and before any attempt is made to use
it. If the jurisdiction exercised by the District Court
is sustained, the procedure provided for the two hearings which may follow after the valuation has been
offered before the Commission or the court as prima fade
evidence is destroyed.
The Commission followed the statute strictly. The
phrase "rate-making purposes" was not an invention
of the Commission for the purpose of this particular
valuation. That phrase has been recognized and used
by b3oth Congress and this Court. Stanislaus County v.
San Joaquin Co., 192 U. S. 201; Des Moines Gas Co. v.
Des Moines, 238 U. S. 153; Galveston Elec. Co. v. Gal.vest6n, 258 U. S. 388; Pattersonv. Mobile Gas Co., 271
U. S. 131; McCardle v. IndianapolisWater Co., 272 U. S.
400; Ottinger v. Consol. Gas Co., 272 U. S.576.
This case is controlled by Smyth v. Ames, 169 U. S.
466; Minnesota Rate Cases, 230 U. S. 552; Wisconsin
Rate Case, 257 U. S. 563; New Eng. Divisions Case, 261
U. S. 184; and Dayton-Goose Creek Ry. v. United States,
263 U. S. 456.
Mr. Charles E. Hughes, with whom Messrs. Henry A.
Scandrett, A. S. Halsted, and J. M. Souby were on the
brief, for appellee.
The District Court had jurisdiction. Petitioner invokes both the special statutory jurisdiction under the
Urgent Deficiencies Act of October 22, 1912, 38 Stat. 219,
and the general equity jurisdiction. The Hepburn Act of
June 29, 1906, 34 Stat. 584, by amendment of § 16 of the
Interstate Commerce Act, vested in the Circuit Courts

UNITED STATES v. LOS ANGELES R. R.
299

303

Argument for Appellee.

jurisdiction "to hear and determine" suits to enjoin, set
aside, annul, or suspend any order or requirement of the
Commission. The jurisdiction of the Circuit Courts was
transferred to the Commerce Court by the Act of June 18,
1910, 36 Stat. 539, and again transferred by the Urgent
Deficiencies Act of October 22, 1913, 38 Stat. 219, to the
District Courts, where it still remains. Prior to the enactment of this statutory remedy the Circuit Courts could
entertain under their general equity jurisdiction suits to
enjoin orders of the Commission if the necessary grounds
for invoking equitable relief were shown. Tex. & Pac. v.
I. C. C., 162 U. S. 197. There was no occasion, therefore, for the enactment of the special statutory remedy
unless it was designed to vest in the Circuit Courts a
special jurisdiction to hear suits to enjoin orders of the
Commission, independently of such a showing of grounds
for invoking the aid of a court of equity as would be necessary in a suit under the general equity jurisdiction. Some
sixty cases brought under this statutory remedy have
come to this Court and in none of them has it been intimated that this remedy is unavailable in a case for which
an adequate remedy at law exists.
The jurisdictional statute does not limit the character of orders that may be reviewed in this form. A
final valuation order is an order of the Commission.
Such an order is not subject to any of the limitations
which this Court has announced upon the review of
orders of the Commission. It is not necessary that the
order require the petitioner to do or refrain from doing
some specific thing. Chicago Junction Case, 264 U. S.
258. In Delaware & Hudson Co. v. United States, 266
U. S. 438, although relief against a tentative valuation
order was denied, jurisdiction was entertained. The
order in this case is the final and affirmative action of
the Commission fixing the valuation of petitioner's property as of valuation date. The fact that the valuation so

304

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Argument for Appellee.

273 U. S.

determined is made by the Valuation Act merely piima
facie evidence does not make the order proof against
attack in a suit of this character. If the valuation is
invalid, as asserted by petitioner, it is improper that such
valuation should be used in any proceedings under the
Interstate Commerce Act, even though its effect is only
that of prima facie evidence. The theory of this suit is
that the Commission has not performed its duty under
the Valuation Act, that the result of its work is not the
result contemplated thereby and that therefore the
valuation fixed by its final order is not entitled to the
presumption of accuracy extended by the Valuation Act.
Petitioner has such an interest in the subject matter as
to entitle it to insist upon strict performance by the
Commission of its duties under the Act. Kansas City
Southern v. I. C. C., 252 U. S. 178.
Although believing the showing unnecessary, petitioner
has shown that it has no adequate remedy at law. The
petition alleges that the immediate and continuing effect
of the order is and will be greatly to injure and impair
petitioner's financial credit and its ability to borrow
money. Petitioner had on valuation date $56,274,000 of
mortgage bonds outstanding against the property which
the Commission has valued at $45,200,000. Its property
investment according to its books was $76,391,598, and,
if this figure were reduced to the Commission's valuation
figure, petitioner's liabilities, other than capital stock,
would exceed its assets and it would have a profit and
loss deficit of many millions of dollars. The ordinary
conduct of its railroad business required continuous expenditures for additions and betterments. It is obvious
that petitioner could not raise additional capital by public
borrowing, or subscription to stock, in the face of this
valuation. It is also obvious that a further injury would
necessarily result from the use of this valuation, as a
basis for rates under § 15a of the Interstate Commerce

UNITED STATES v. LOS ANGELES R. R.

305

Argument for Appellee.

299

Act, or as a factor in prescribing the divisions of joint
rates under § 15, or as a limit upon capitalization in the
case of a consolidation under § 5. No adequate remedy
at law exists against this invalid valuation. Walla Walla
v. Walla Walla Water Co., 172 U. S. 1.
The contention that this suit is premature is unfounded.
While presumably the Commission will find it necessary
at some future time to bring its valuation down to a
later date, the fact remains that its order under review is
a final determination of the value as of June 30, 1914.
The Commission's valuations as of 1914 have already been
used in the adjustment of rates, and as a basis for a drastic
accounting requirement as to depreciation recently made.
Tel. & R. R. DepreciationCharges, 118 I. C. C. 295.
The Valuation Act requires the Commission to find
value. In finding what it designates "value for ratemaking purposes" the Commission, as held by the District Court, has failed to comply with the statutory
requirement. The Act directs that the Commission report "the value" and provides that the final valuation
by the Commission shall be prima facie evidence of "the
value" of the property in all proceedings under the Interstate Commerce Act or for its enforcement. The proceedings in which the valuations made under the Act are
so declared to be prima facie evidence concern the consolidation of railroads under par. (6) of § 5, the issuance
of securities under § 20a, and the division of joint rates
under par. (6) of § 15, as well as the fixing of rates and
recapture of excess earnings under § 15a. Neither the
Act nor any other section of the Interstate Commerce Act
recognizes or sanctions a special value for rate-making
purposes. The phrase "value for rate-making purposes"
occurs in no provision of the entire Interstate Commerce
Act except in par. (4) of § 15a. But that section, added
by the Transportation Act, 1920, did not, by these references or otherwise, purport to amend the Valuation Act.
42847 °-27-20

306

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Argument for Appellee.

273 U. S.

As applied to a railroad property or any other property,
value is what the property is worth-what it will bring
as the result of fair negotiations between an owner who
is willing to sell and a purchaser who desires to buy.
Brooks-Scanlon Corp. v. United States, 265 U. S. 106;
Havre de Grace Bridge Co. v. Towers, 132 Md. 16; State
ex rel. R. R. Co. v. Clausen, 63 Wash. 535; State v.
Savage, 65 Neb. 714.
The Commission refused to comply with the requirement of the Valuation Act that it report an analysis of
the methods of valuation employed by it. It also refused to comply with the requirement of the Act that
it ascertain and report separately "other values and elements of value."
The Commission, because it fixed an arbitrary rate
base, instead of finding value, as required by the Valuation Act, ignored facts and factors which are of major
importance in the determination of value, viz.: elements
of value evidenced by earning power; trackage and terminal rights; going concern value; and appreciation.
The valuation fixed as of a date nine years prior to the
date of its announcement and predicated upon obsolete
prices, is unwarranted and misleading. In making its
estimate of cost of reproduction of petitioner's properties
the Commission applied unit prices of labor and materials prevailing during five years and in some instances
ten years prior to June 30, 1914. That the use of such
unit prices is unwarranted is established by Southwestern
Tel. Co. v. Pub. Ser. Comm., 262 U. S. 276; Bluefields
Water Works v. Pub. Ser. Comm., 262 U. S. 679; and
McCardle v. Indianapolis Water Co., 272 U. S. 400.
The rules adopted by the Commission for the valuation and classification of lands were unsound and unwarranted by law. The treatment of original cost is contrary to the requirement of the Valuation Act. The
restatement of petitioner's investment account is wrong

UNITED STATES v. LOS ANGELES R. R.
299

307

Opinion of the Court.

in principle and erroneous and misleading in point of
fact. The estimates of cost of reproduction are incomplete and erroneous. The treatment of the question of
depreciation is arbitrary and unwarranted.
The Commission, as found by the District Court, fixed
the value of petitioner's property for rate making purposes far below the actual value thereof as established
by the evidence.
Mr. Patrick J. Farrell, with whom Mr. E. M. Reidy
was on the brief, for the Interstate Commerce Commission.
Mr. JUSTICE BRANDEIS delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This suit was brought in the federal court for southern
California by the Los Angeles & Salt Lake Railroad Company to enjoin and annul an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission purporting to determine the "final
value" of its property, under what is now § 19a of the Act
to Regulate Commerce, February 4, 1887, c. 104, 24 Stat.
379, as amended by the Valuation Act, March 1, 1913, c.
92, 37 Stat. 701, by the Act of February 28, 1920, c. 91, §
433, 41 Stat. 456, 474, 493, and by the Act of June 7, 1922,
c. 210, 42 Stat. 624. San Pedro, Los Angeles and Salt
Lake Railroad Co., 75 I. C. C. 463; 97 I. C. C. 737; 103
I. C. C. 398. The bill asserts that the order fixing the final
value is invalid, because it is in excess of the powers conferred upon the Commission, is contrary to the provisions
of the Valuation Act, and violates the Fifth Amendment.
It asserts also that irreparable injury is threatened.
Reasons why the final valuation is invalid are set forth
specifically in 31 paragraphs and 35 sub-paragraphs of
the bill. It charges that the Commission adopted rules
for the valuation which are unsound and unwarranted in
law; that in the determination of values it ignored facts
and factors of major importance; that it refused to renort.

308

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

an analysis of the methods employed by it, although required so to do by the Valuation Act; and that it refused
to comply with the requirement that all values and elements of value be separately reported. It charges that the
valuation was made as of June 30, 1914, whereas it should
have been made as of June 7, 1923; that the value found
is that for rate-making purposes, whereas the finding
should have been a general one of value for all purposes;
that properties enumerated were erroneously excluded
from the valuation; that in making the finding of value
the Commission erroneously failed to consider nine specified elements of value; that in making the finding of investment in road and equipment it ignored six items; that
in making the finding of cost of reproduction new it
ignored eleven items; that in making the finding of cost
of reproduction new less depreciation it made thirteen
errors; that in valuing the lands eleven errors were made;
and that in making the finding as to working capital a
large sum was arbitrarily deducted. It alleges that for
these and other reasons the findings made are incomplete,
erroneous in law and misleading in point of fact.
The jurisdiction of the District Court was invoked
under the Urgent Deficiencies Act, October 22, 1913, c. 32,
38 Stat. 208, 219, and also under its general equity powers.
The United States was named as defendant and the Commission became such by intervention. Both defendants
answered. But by appropriate pleadings the United
States objected that the adoption by the Commission of
the final valuation does not constitute an order within the
meaning of the Urgent Deficiencies Act; challenged also
the jurisdiction of the court to enjoin or annul the order
under its general equity powers; and moved that the bill
be dismissed. The motion was overruled; the case was
heard on the pleadings and evidence; and, after proceedings which it is not necessary to detail, a decree was entered
which annulled the final valuation and enjoined its use

UNITED STATES v. LOS ANGELES R. R.
299

309

Opinion of the Court.

for any purpose. Los Angeles & Salt Lake Railroad v.
United States, 4 F. (2d) 736; 8 F. (2d) 747. Whether
all or any of the claims and charges made in the bill are
well founded, we have no occasion to consider; for we are
of opinion that the District Court should have sustained
the motion to dismiss the bill.
The final report on value, like the tentative report, is
called an order. But there are many orders of the Commission which are not judicially reviewable under the provision now incorporated in the Urgent Deficiencies Act.
See Procter& Gamble Co. v. United States, 225 U. S. 282;
Hooker v. Knapp, 225 U. S. 302; Lehigh Valley R. R. Co.
v. United States, 243 U. S. 412; United States v. Illinois
Central R. R. Co., 244 U. S. 82, 89; Delaware & Hudson
Co. v. UnitedStates, 266 U. S. 438. For the first nineteen
years of the Commission's existence no order was so reviewable. The statutory jurisdiction to enjoin and set
aside an order was granted in 1906, because then, for the
first time, the rate-making power was conferred upon the
Commission, and then disobedience of its orders was first
made punishable. Hepburn Act, June 29, 1906, c. 3591,
§§ 2-7,34 Stat. 584,586-595. The first suit to set aside an
order was brought soon after. Stickney v; InterstateCommerce Commission, 164 Fed. 638; 215 U. S. 98. The jurisdiction conferred by the Hepburn Act was transferred,
substantially unchanged, to the Commerce Court, by the
Act of June 18, 1910, c. 309, § 1, 36 Stat. 539; and, when
that court was abolished, to the district courts, by the
Urgent Deficiencies Act. The so-called order here assailed
differs essentially from all those held by this Court to be
subject to judicial review under any of those Acts. Each
of the orders so reviewed was an exercise either of the
quasi-judicial function of determining controversies or of
the delegated legislative function of rate making and rule
making.
The so-called order here complained of is one which
does not command the carrier to do, or to refrain from

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

doing, any thing; which does not grant or withhold any
authority, privilege or license; which does not extend or
abridge any power or facility; which does not subject the
carrier to any liability, civil or criminal; which does not
change the carrier's existing or future status or condition;
which does not determine any right or obligation. This
so-called order is merely the formal record of conclusions
reached after a study of data collected in the course of
extensive research conducted by the Commission, through
its employees. It is the exercise solely of the function
of investigation. Compare Smith v. Interstate Commerce
Commission, 245 U. S. 33. Moreover, the investigation
made was not a step in a pending proceeding in which
an order of the character of those held to be judicially
reviewable could be entered later. It was merely preparation for possible action in some proceeding which may
be instituted in the future-preparation deemed by Congress necessary to enable the Commission to perform adequately its duties, if and when occasion for action shall
arise. The final report may, of course, become a basis
for action by the Commission, as it may become a basis
for action by Congress or by the legislature or an administrative board of a State. But so may any report of an
investigation, whether made by a committee of Congress
or by the Commission pursuant to a resolution of Congress or of either branch thereof.
The Valuation Act requires that the investigation and
study be made of the properties of each of the rail carriers.
There are about 1800. 40 Annual Report Interstate Commerce Commission, 13. In directing the Commission to
investigate the value of the property of the several carriers, Congress prescribed in detail the subjects on which
findings should be made, and constituted the "final valuations" and "the classification thereof" prima facie evidence, in controversies under the Act to Regulate Commerce. Every party in interest is, therefore, entitled to.

UNITED STATES v. LOS ANGELES R. R.
299

311

Opinion of the Court.

have and to use this evidence; and the carrier, being a
party in interest, has the remedy by mandamus to compel the Commission to make a finding on each of the
subjects specifically prescribed. Kansas City Southern
Ry. Co. v. Interstate Commerce Commission, 252 U. S.
178. But Congress did not confer upon the courts power
either to direct what this " tribunal appointed by law and
informed by experience," Illinois Central Ry. Co. v.
Interstate Commerce Commission, 206 U. S. 441, 454,
shall find, or to annul the report, because of errors committed in making it. Moreover, errors may be made in
the final valuation of the property of each of the nearly
1800 carriers. And it is at least possible that no proceeding will ever be instituted, either before the Commission or a court, in which the matters now complained of
will be involved or in which the errors alleged will be of
legal significance.
The mere fact that Congress has, in terms, made "all
final valuations .
and the classification thereof
prima facie evidence of the value of the property
in all proceedings under the Act to Regulate Commerce
in all judicial proceedings for the enforcement of
the Act . . and in all judicial proceedings brought to
enjoin, set aside, annul, or suspend, in whole or in part,
any order of the Interstate Commerce Commission" is,
obviously, not a violation of the due process clause justifying proceedings to annul the order. That to make the
Commission's conclusions prima facie evidence in judicial
proceedings is not a denial of due process, was settled by
Meeker v. Lehigh Valley R. R. Co., 236 U. S. 412, 430,
431. It was there said of a like provision relating to reparation orders: "This provision only establishes a rebuttable presumption. It cuts off no defense, interposes no
obstacle to a full contestation of all the issues, and takes
no question of fact from either court or jury. At most
therefore it is merely a rule of evidence." See also Mills

312

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

v. Lehigh Valley R. R. Co., 238 U. S. 473, 481-482; St.
Louis Southwestern Ry. Co. v. United States, 264 U. S.
64, 77.
Nor does the fact that "all final valuations
and
the classifications thereof" are made prima facie evidence
prevent the report from being solely an exercise of the
function of investigation. Data collected by the Commission as a part of its function of investigation, constitute ordinarily evidence sufficient to support an order, if
the data are duly made part of the record in the case in
which the order is entered. See Interstate Commerce
Commission v. Louisville & Nashville R. R. Co., 227 U. S.
88, 93; Chicago Junction Case, 264 U. S. 258, 262; United
States v. Abilene & Southern Ry. Co., 265 U. S. 274, 286290; Act of June 18, 1910, c. 309, § 13, 36 Stat. 539, 555.
Inquests and inquisitions, if they were expressly authorized, are, at common law, admissible in evidence in judicial
proceedings, thus constituting an exception to both the
hearsay rule and the rule against opinion evidence.
3 Wigmore on Evidence (2d ed.), §§ 1671-1674. Some
inquests are at common law also prima facie evidence of
the facts found. Hughes v. Jones, 116 N. Y. 67.
Congress has provided adequate remedies for the correction of errors in the final valuation and the classification thereof. The conclusions reached by the Commission
must be submitted first in the form of a tentative report,
§ 19a, pars. (f) and (h). When so submitted, the carrier
is authorized to file a protest and to be heard thereon,
par. (i). If such protest is filed, the Commission is
directed to make in the report such changes, if any, as it
may deem proper. Even if no protest is filed, the Commission may of its own motion upon due notice to parties
in interest correct the tentative report. Compare New
York, Ontario & Western Ry. Co. v. United States, post,
p. 652. When the final report is introduced in evidence
the opportunity to contest the correctness of the findings

UNITED STATES v. LOS ANGELES R. R.
299

313

Opinion of the Court.

therein made is fully preserved to the carrier; and any
error therein may be corrected at the trial. Specific findings may be excluded because of errors committed in
making them. It is conceivable that errors of law may
have been committed which are so fundamental and farreaching, as to deprive the "final valuations . . and the
classification thereof" of all probative force. Moreover,
additional evidence may be introduced. Paragraph (j)
provides that "if upon the trial of any action involving
a final value fixed by the Commission, evidence shall be
introduced regarding such value which is found by the
court to be different from that offered upon the hearing
before the Commission, or additional thereto and substantially affecting the value," the proceedings shall be stayed
so as to permit the Commission to consider the same and
fix a final value different from that fixed in the first
instance, and to "alter, modify, amend or rescind any
order which it has made involving such final value."
The District Court rested jurisdiction to entertain a suit
to set aside the valuation order largely upon the provisions
of paragraph (j), believing that such a suit was within the
scope of the words "upon the trial of any action involving
a final value." That paragraph was intended to apply to
actions brought to set aside rate-fixing orders in which the
question of the value of the carrier's property would be
material. In our opinion it is not applicable to so-called
orders fixing only valuations. The objection to entertaining this suit to annul the final valuation is not merely that
the question presented is moot, as in United States v.
Alaska Steamship Co., 253 U. S. 113, 116; or that the
plaintiff's interest is remote and speculative as in Hines
Yellow Pine Trustees v. United States, 263 U. S. 143, 148.
There is the fundamental infirmity that the mere existence of error in the final valuation is not a wrong for
which Congress provides a remedy under the Urgent Deficiencies Act.

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

Little need be added concerning the further contention
that the suit should be entertained under the general
equity power of the court. Two arguments are urged in
support of the proposition. One is that since the Commission has by reason of errors of law and of judgment
grossly undervalued the property, its report will, unless
suppressed, injure the credit of the carrier with the public.
The other is that the Commission may itself be misled
into illegal action by the erroneous conclusions and may
apply them to the carriers' injury, since use of the final
valuation is required in making rates pursuant to § 15a
of the Act to Regulate Commerceas amended by Transportation Act, c. 91, § 421, 41 Stat. 456; in prescribing
divisions of joint rates under § 15; in determining the
limit upon the amount of capitalization, in the event of a
consolidation under § 5; in determining the propriety of
an issue of securities, under § 20a; or as the basis of computation of the amount of excess earnings to be recaptured under § 15a. Neither argument is persuasive. The
first reminds of the effort made in Pennsylvania R. R.
Co. v. United States Railroad Labor Board, 261 U. S. 72,

to suppress the report of that board. The second reminds
of the attempt to secure a declaratory judgment in
Liberty Warehouse Co. v. Grannis, ante, p. 70; and, also,
of cases in which it was sought to enjoin a municipality
from passing an illegal ordinance. Compare New Orleans
Waterworks Co. v. New Orleans, 164 U. S. 471, 481;
McChord v. Louisville & N. Ry. Co., 183 U. S. 483.
No basis is laid for relief under the general equity
powers. The investigation was undertaken in aid of the
legislative purpose of regulation. In conducting the investigation, and in making the report, the Commission performed a service specifically delegated and prescribed by
Congress. Its conclusions, if erroneous in law, may be
disregarded. But neither its utterances, nor its processes
of reasoning, as distinguished from its acts, are a subject

PUEBLO OF SANTA ROSA v. FALL.
299

Statement of the Case

for injunction. Whether the remedy conferred by the
Urgent Deficiencies Act is in all cases the exclusive equitable remedy, we need not determine.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE BUTLER took
or decision of this case.

no part in the consideration

THE PUEBLO OF SANTA ROSA v. FALL, SECRE-

TARY OF THE INTERIOR,

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE DISTRICT OF
COLUMBIA

No. 511.

Argued January 11, 1927-Decided February 21, 1927.

1. A court has power at any stage of a case to require an attorney to
show his authority to appear. P. 319.
2. The clearest of proof is required to establish authority in the captain of an Indian Pueblo to deed without valuable consideration a
one-half interest in a vast tract of land claimed by the Pueblo and
to execute an irrevocable power of attorney to bring suit in its
name to establish the title. P. 319.
3. Section 2103, Rev. Stats., declaring void, unless executed and supported as the section prescribes, any agreement with a tribe of
Indians for payment or delivery of anything of value in consideration of services for such Indians relative to their lands, and § 2116,
declaring that no conveyance of lands etc. from any Indian nation
or tribe shall be of any validity unless made by treaty or convention entered into pursuant to the Constitution, apply to Pueblo as
well as nomadic Indians. P. 320.
4. A decree dismissing a suit for want of authority in the counsel
bringing it, should be without prejudice to the bringing of any other
suit properly authorized. P. 321.
12 F. (2d) 332, reversed.
CERTIORARI

(post, p. 678) to a decree of the Court of

Appeals of the District of Columbia which affirmed a decree of the Supreme Court of the District dismissing on
the merits a suit in the name of the Pueblo of Santa Rosa

