OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Syllabus.

273 U. S.

sel, where the stipulation stands as security for any claim
which may be filed against her up to the amount of the
stipulation."
It is quite evident from this that the stipulation under
Rule 51 (formerly 54), et seq., is to be treated as a substitute for the vessel itself for all claims that may normally
arise out of the character of litigation carried on under
such rules. That litigation, as we have seen, may properly
be carried to a complete settlement of all claims, without
regard to whether the prayer for limitation of liability is
denied or not. The stipulator must, therefore, pay in
full on his undertaking to enable the court to pay the
costs and make the pro rata distribution.

Judgment affirmed.
CHARLESTON MINING COMPANY v. UNITED
STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

FIFTH CIRCUIT.
No. 93.

Argued January 10, 1927.-Decided February 21, 1927.

1. A finding of fraud in fact which is not clearly erroneous will not be
disturbed when concurred in by two federal courts below. P. 223.
2. The Act of March 3, 1845, granting to the State of Florida "section numbered 16 in every township or other land equivalent
thereto" for school purposes, was not self-executing in the indemnity provision, but left the grant dependent, in that regard, upon
future action of Congress. P. 224.
3. Assuming that under the Act of 1845 there was an equitable obligation in fulfillment of the graht to provide for selection of mineral
as well as non-mineral indemnity lands, yet the only actual provision (Rev. Stats. §§ 2275 and 2276, as amended February 28, 1891)
limits selection to land not mineral in character; and consequently
a certification of mineral land is unauthorized, and, when procured
upon false representation that the land is non-mineral, is voidable
at the suit of the United States. P. 225.
3 Fed. (2d) 1019, affirmed.

CHARLESTON MIN. CO, v. UNITED STATES.
220

221

Opinion of the Court.

APPEAL from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals,
which affirmed a decree of the District Court (298 Fed.
127) setting aside, in part, a certification of indemnity
school land, in a suit by the United States based on
fraudulent representations.
Messrs. Edwin C. Brandenburg and William Wade
Hampton, with whom Messrs. Fred J. Hampton, E. B.
Hampton, and Louis M. Denit were on the brief, for the
appellant.
Solicitor General Mitchell, with whom Assistant Attorney General Parmenter and Messrs. E. 0. Patterson,
0. H. Graves, and Perry C. Michener were on the brief,
for the United States.

MIR. CHIEF JUSTICE TAFT delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This was a bill in equity brought by the United States
in the District Court for the Southern District of Florida,
by direction of the Attorney General, against the Charleston, South Carolina, Mining and Manufacturing Company, to have declared void the approval and certification
by the Secretary of the Interior and the Commissioner
of the General Land Office of 320 acres of the public lands
of the United States in Polk County, Florida, to the State
of Florida, title to which was transferred by mesne'conveyances from the State of Florida to defendant Mining
Company. The bill averred that the selection, approval
and certification had been procured from the Government
Land Officials upon fraudulent representations with reference to the non-mineral character of the land, the representations having been made in an affidavit at the
instance of the defendant company and with its knowledge, for the purpose of securing such conveyance to the
State and through the state authorities to the defendant.

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

The prayer was that the title or conveyance be held for
naught and be deliverd up and surrendered for cancellation, that the described lands be adjudged the property
of the United States, that the defendants be enjoined
from setting up any claim thereto or creating any cloud
upon the title of the United States, and that the possession be restored to the United States. An answer was
filed by the defendant denying the averments of the bill;
and there was a full hearing upon evidence. The District Court held that the evidence of fraud was established in reference to 280 of the 320 acres described in
the bill; and, as to that, the relief prayed for was granted;
but the bill was dismissed as to the remaining forty
acres. 298 Fed. 127. On appeal of the defendant, the
Circuit Court of Appeals of the Fifth Circuit affirmed
the decree of the District Court. The case came to this
Court on appeal taken on February 7, 1925, under § 241
of the Judicial Code, as a suit to which the United States
was a party which was not made final by the other provisions of the Judiciary Title.
The evidence for the Government tended to show the
following: In 1906, Singleton, acting for and in the employ of the appellant, prospected for phosphate deposits
in the vicinity of these lands. He explored by making
borings in a tract of 360 acres adjacent to the one in suit,
which on his recommendation was purchased by the appellant. for $40,000. The 280 acres here restored to the
Government by the lower courts contained, according
to borings and tests made in 1910, phosphates which ran
from 61 to 66.84 per cent., and it appeared that at that
time phosphate at 60 per cent. could be profitably mined.
The land belonged to the United States. Singleton's
plan was to secure the 320 acres in question as indemnity
for school sections 16 conveyed by the United States to
Florida under the Act of March 3, 1845, c. 75, 5 Stat. 788.
Singleton arranged with one Stewart to induce the state

CHARLESTON MIN. CO. v. UNITED STATES..
220

223

Opinion of the Court.

land agent, Hampton, to make the selection. Stewart
in turn procured one Hollingsworth to make an affidavit
that the land was non-mineral. Hollingsworth made a
superficial inspection of the lands in company with Singleton, but obtained no information sufficient to disclose
whether the lands contained phosphates or not. Singleton knew that Hollingsworth was to make the affidavit
without any real knowledge as to the character of the
lands, which, so far as Singleton and defendant were
concerned, made the affidavit false. With this affidavit,
and at the instance of the defendant's agent, Hampton
innocently applied to the United States to make the selection and cause the lands to be certified to the State as
indemnity lands selected under statute.
There was a conflict of evidence, but the District Court
found the facts as above, and that the defendant was
guilty of fraud in procuring a false affidavit upon which
the selection and certification of the lands was secured.
The Circuit Court of Appeals sustained the finding of
the lower court.
The rule is well established that this Court will not
disturb a finding of fact made by a District Court, in
equity, cQncurred in by the Circuit Court of Appeals,
except in case of the clearest error. United States v. State
Investment Company, 264 U. S. 206, 211; Brewer Oil
Company v. United States, 260 U. S. 77, 86; Bodkin v.
Edwards, 255 U. S. 221, 233; National Bank of Athens
v. Shackelford, 239 U. S. 81, 82; Wright-Blodgett Company v. United States, 236 U. S. 397, 402; Washington
Securities Company v. United States, 234 U. S. 76, 78;
Texas & Pacific Company v. Louisiana Railroad Commission, 232 U. S. 338, 339; Chicago Junction Railway Company v. King, 222 U. S. 222, 224; Page v. Rogers, 211
U. S. 575, 577; Dun v. Lumbermen's Credit Association,
209 U. S. 20, 24.
We therefore are limited in this cause to the question
of law which is raised,-whether the indemnity selection

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

here made was valid even if it was for known mineral
land. The grant of March 3, 1845, to Florida, read as
follows:
"That in consideration of the concessions made by the
State of Florida in respect to the public lands, there be
granted to the said state eight entire sections of land for
the purpose of fixing their seat of government; also section numbered 16 in every township or other land equivalent thereto for the use of the inhabitants of such
township for the support of public schools . . ."

It is said that this constitutes a binding compact between the State and the United States, which can not be
abrogated, and that the State was entitled to every section 16, whether mineral or agricultural, and that, in case
of loss, the State had the specific right to select from
vacant lands of the United States in that State other
lands, without reference to the character of the lands so
selected, whether mineral or otherwise.
The District Judge expressed himself as impressed with
this argument, but said that he was bound by the decision
of this Court in United States v. Sweet, 245 U. S. 563. in
which this Court held that under § 6 of the Utah enabling
act of July 16, 1894, 28 Stat. 107, a grant of section 16, in
place, for school purposes, in view of the settled policy of
Congress to dispose of mineral lands only under laws
specially including them, was not intended to embrace
lands known to be valuable for coal. It is urged that
the District Judge erred in applying the Sweet case to
the case here, because the decision of this Court in Work
v. Louisiana,269 U. S. 250, shows that the Sweet case did
not apply to a construction of the Swamp Land grants
made in 1849 and 1850, and that if the Act enacted then
contained no exception or reservation of mineral land,
none was to be implied, since the policy of withholding
mineral lands from disposition, except under law specially
including them, was not then established.

CHARLESTON MIN. CO. v. UNITED STATES.
220

225

Opinion of the Court.

It is to be observed that the case of Work v. Louisiana
applied to a grant of swamp lands, and did not refer to
indemnity lands thereafter to be selected. The phrase in
the original grant of 1845, in this case, "or other lands
equivalent thereto," was not self-executing. It could not
and did not confer on the beneficiary of the grant the
right to make indemnity selections, except as Congress
should provide for the exercise of that right.
The only authority conferred by Congress for selection
and certification of indemnity lands for a failure of the
grant of a school section No. 16, applicable to the Act of
1845, is found in § 2275 of the Revised Statutes, as
amended by the Act of February 28, 1891, c. 384, 26 Stat.
796, and § 2276 of the Revised Statutes, as amended by
the same Act. These sections are as follows:
"Sec. 2275. Where settlements with a view to preemption or homestead have been, or shall hereafter be
made, before the survey of the lands in the field, which
are found to have been made on sections sixteen to thirtysix, those sections shall be subject to the claims of such
settlers; and if such sections, or either of them, have been
or shall be granted, reserved or pledged for the use of
schools or colleges in the State or Territory in which they
lie, other lands of equal acreage are hereby appropriated
and granted, and may be selected by said State or Territory, in lieu of such as may be thus taken by pre-emption
or homestead settlers. And other lands of equal acreage
are also hereby appropriated and granted, and may be
selected by said State or Territory where sections sixteen
or thirty-six are mineral land, or are included within any
Indian, military, or other reservation, or are otherwise
disposed of by the United States, Provided, Where any
State is entitled to said sections sixteen and thirty-six, or
where said sections are reserved to any Territory, notwithstanding the same may be mineral land or embraced
42847°-27-15

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

within a military, Indian, or other reservation, the selection of such lands in lieu thereof by said State or Territory shall be a waiver of its right to said sections. And
other lands of equal acreage are also hereby appropriated
and granted, and may be selected by said State or Territory to compensate deficiencies for school purposes, where
sections sixteen or thirty-six are fractional in quantity, or
where one or both are wanting by reason of the township
being fractional, or from any natural cause whatever.
"Section 2276. That the lands appropriated by the preceding section shall be selected from any unappropriated
surveyed public lands, not mineral in character, within
the State or Territory where such losses or deficiencies of
school sections occur; and where the selections are to compensate for deficiencies of school lands in fractional townships, such selections shall be made in accordance with
the following principles of adjustment, to wit: For each
township, or fractional township, containing a greater
quantity of land than three-quarters of an entire township, one section; for a fractional township, containing a
greater quantity of land than one-half, and not more than
three-quarters of a township, three-quarters of a section;
for a fractional township, containing a greater quantity
of land than one-quarter and not more than one-half of a
township, one-half section; and for a fractional township
containing a greater quantity of land than one entire section, and not more than one-quarter of a township, onequarter section of land; Provided, That the States or
Territories which are, or shall be entitled to both the
sixteenth and thirty-sixth sections in place, shall have the
right to select double the amounts named, to compensate
for deficiencies for school land in fractional townships."
The lands here in question were selected by the State
by lists filed on February 12 and February 19, 1906, pursuant to these sections, and the selections were supported
by an affidavit that the lands were not mineral in char-

BARRETT CO. v. UNITED STATES.
220

Syllabus.

acter. They were approved December 11, 1907, and were
certified to the State December 18, 1907, and were thereupon conveyed by the State to one who took title for the
appellant, who had procured the selection and the certification. These sections require that the indemnity lands
to be conveyed thereunder shall not be mineral in character. Only Congress can convey title to the land of the
United States, and it makes no difference what was its
equitable obligation to convey title under the original
grant of 1845 in respect of indemnity lands. Congress
certainly intended to convey as indemnity lands only
those described in the Act of 1891. There was no power
in anyone representing the United States, therefore, to
convey indemnity land which was mineral in character;
and any scheme by which conveyance of such land was
obtained was a fraud upon the United States.
The decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
Affirmed.

BARRETT COMPANY v. UNITED STATES.
APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF CLAIMS.
No. 105.

Submitted January 7, 1927.--Decided February 21, 1927.

1. After cancellation of a contract under which supplies were to be
manufactured for the Government in a plant to be built with government funds and to belong to the Government, the making of a
supplemental agreement by which the contractor bought the plant
for a price stated did not affect the contractor's claims growing out
of the termination of the original contract, when the later agreement was expressly without prejudice to them. P. 232.
2. The just compensation to which a claimant is entitled upon cancellation of a contract by the Government, under the Act of June
15, 1917, is not to be measured by the profit that would have
accrued under the contract, but must embrace that value which
was taken from the contractor by the termination of the contract.
The contractor is to be credited with his outlays reasonably made
for the fulfillment of the contract. P. 235.

