WAGGONER ESTATE v. WICHITA COUNTY. 113
103

Syllabus.

appellant here has brought himself within the protection
of the immunity.
Throughout the proceedings before the immigration
authorities, he did not assert his privilege or in any
manner suggest that he withheld his testimony because
there was any ground for fear of self-incrimination. His
assertion of it here is evidently an afterthought. It is
for the tribunal conducting the trial to determine what
weight should be given to the contention of the witness
that the answer sought will incriminate him, Mason v.
United States, 244 U. S. 362, a determination which it
cannot make if not advised of the contention. Cf. In re
Edward Hess & Co., 136 Fed. 088; Ex parte Irvine, 74
Fed. 954, 960. The privilege may not be relied on and
must be deemed waived if not in some manner fairly
brought to the attention of the tribunal which must pass
upon it. See In re Knickerbocker Steamboat Co., 139
Fed. 713; United States v. Skinner, 218 Fed. 870, 876;
United States v. Elton, 222 Fed. 428, 435. This conclusion makes it unnecessary for us to consider the extent to
which the Fifth Amendment guarantees immunity from
self-incrimination under state statutes or whether this case
is to be controlled by Hale v. Henkel, 201 U. S. 43; Brown
v. Walker, 161 U. S. 591, 608; compare United States v.
Saline Bank, 1 Pet. 100; Ballmann v. Fagin, 200 U. S.
Judgment affirmed.
186, 195.
WAGGONER ESTATE ET AL. v. WICHITA COUNTY
ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 52. Argued December 3, 1926.-Decided January 3, 1927.
1. Under Judicial Code § 238, before the Act of February 13, 1925,
a decree of the District Court in a suit wherein its jurisdiction was
based on the sole ground that substantial constitutional questions
were involved, was appealable directly to this Court. P. 116.
42847°-27-8

114

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 IT.S.

2. Where such a decree was appealed to the Circuit Court of Appeals
erroneously, but within the time allowed for direct appeal to this
Court, an appeal from a decree rendered therein by the Court of
Appeals will operate to transfer the case here, to be treated as a
direct appeal from the District Court. P. 116.
3. On direct appeal to this Court from the District Court, where the
sole ground of the original jurisdiction was constitutional questions,
the decision may be limited to either state or federal questions that
dispose of the case. P. 116.
4. Whether a royalty interest in an oil and gas lease is realty or
personalty is a question of local law. P. 117.
5. Under the particular facts of this case, where lands in Texas were
demised for the sole purpose of drilling for gas and oil, the lessee
covenanting to deliver free of charge to the lessor one-eighth of all
oil or gas produced and to pay seven-eighths of all increase of tax
"by virtue of oil or gas," the interest of the lessor is properly taxed
as real property. P. 118.
298 Fed. 818, affirmed.
APPEAL from a decree of the Circuit Court of Appeals, 3
F. (2d) 962, which affirmed a decree of the District Court
dismissing, after trial, a bill to enjoin collection of a tax.
The case is treated as on direct appeal from the District
Court on transfer from the Circuit Court of Appeals.

Mr. George Thompson, with whom Mr. J. H. Barwise,
Jr., was on the brief, for the appellants.
Mr. T. R. Boone, with whom Messrs. E. W. Napier,
E. L. Fulton, E. T. Duff, and John B. King were on the
brief, for the appellees.
MR. JUSTICE STONE

delivered the opinion of the Court.

Appellants, Waggoner, a citizen of Tarrant County,
Texas, and the Waggoner Estate, domiciled in Texas,
brought suit in the district court for northern Texas
against Wichita County, the members of the Board of
Equalization, and the Tax Collector of the county to
enjoin the collection of a tax stated to be illegally assessed. The bill alleged that the tax contested as illegal

WAGGONER ESTATE v. WICHITA COUNTY. 115
113

Opinion of the Court.

exceeded the jurisdictional amount; that Waggoner at
the time of the assessment, January 1, 1923, was the
owner of 12,000 acres of oil producing land located in
Wichita County; that the land which was transferred
after the assessment to appellant, the Waggoner Estate,
was subject to certain oil leases under which Waggoner,
as lessor, was entitled to receive as royalties one-eighth
of all the oil produced; that the Board of Equalization
in computing the tax upon the lessor's interest in the oil
under his leases, determined that the royalty in the daily
production of oil from the leased land, estimated as of
January 1, 1923, would be 723 barrels per day and that
the total value of such oil was $1,000 per barrel of daily
production thus estimated, or $728,000. The bill assailed
the tax assessed as illegal and in violation of the due
process and equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth
Amendment, in that appellant's interest in the oil leases
up to $718,300 of the assessed value had been erroneously
treated for taxing purposes as real estate in Wichita
County, instead of personal property taxable in Tarrant
County where the lessor resided; that in valuing this
interest appellees had intentionally and systematically
applied a higher rate than upon similar property in the
county, thus denying appellants the equal protection of
the laws guaranteed by the Fourteenth Amendment.
The judgment of the district court dismissing the bill
after a trial, 298 Fed. 818, was affirmed on appeal by the
Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit. 3 Fed. (2d) 962.
Both courts held that the interest taxed was realty aild
hence subject to tax in Wichita County where the leased
lands were situated. They held also that the assessment
was not discriminatory and did not violate the provisions
c "the Fourteenth Amendment. Although the tax was assessed on appellant at the rate of $1,000 per barrel on
the estimated daily production and the interests of the
several lessees in the oil under the various leases were

116

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

valued at $450 per barrel, it was held that there was substantial basis for the difference in the rate since the entire
expense and risk incident to production were borne by
the lessees.
The case comes here on appeal allowed by the Circuit
Court of Appeals. The jurisdiction of the district court
was invoked on the sole ground that substantial constitutional questions were involved. Hence, a direct appeal
should have been taken from the district court to this
Court. Jud. Code, § 238, before amended. Union &
Planters' Bank v. Memphis, 189 U. S. 71, 73; Carolina
Glass Co. v. Murray, 240 U. S. 305, 318; Lemke v. Farmers
Grain Co., 258 U. S. 50, 52. Having been erroneously
brought to the Circuit Court of Appeals, the case should
have been transferred to this Court. Jud. Code, § 238(a),
before the amendment of February 13, 1925. But as the
appeal to the Circuit Court of Appeals was allowed within
three months after the entry of judgment in the district court, the present appeal will operate effectively to
lodge the case in this Court for its decision without the
needless ceremony of remanding the case to the Circuit
Court of Appeals to enable that court to transfer it back
to us for a second consideration. Wagner v. Lyndon,
262 U. S. 226; cf. McMillan Co. v. Abernathy, 263 U. S.
438. Treating this as a direct appeal from the district
court in a case where the sole ground of its jurisdiction
was the construction or application of the Constitution
of the United States, we may limit our decision to either
federal or state questions which dispose of the case.
Davis v. Wallace, 257 U. S. 478, 482; Risty v. Chicago,
R. I. & Pac. Ry., 270 U. S. 378, 387.
That there was a basis for discrimination in valuing the
lessor's and lessees' interests in the oil is not questioned
here. But appellants insist that it was erroneous to tr x
the lessor's interest as realty in Wichita County instead
of personalty taxable in Tarrant County, the residence of
the taxpayer. As they rely on the allegation in the bill

WAGGONER ESTATE v. WICHITA COUNTY. 117
113

Opinion of the Court.

that the board intentionally and systematically exempted
from taxation other personal property in Wichita County,
it is implicit in this contention that the taxing authorities,
by treating these interests as realty instead of personalty,
denied them the equal protection of the laws. But we
find it unnecessary to deal with the constitutional aspect
of the question as we conclude that the interest was properly taxable as realty.
Whether realty or personalty is a question of local
law upon which the local decisions and statutes control.
Edward Hines Trustees v. Martin, 268 U. S. 458, 462.
Under Art. 7510, Complete Tex. Stat. 1920, all real estate
is taxable in the county where located.
It is the contention of appellants that by the law of
Texas, minerals, including oil in place in the soil may by
appropriate deed or conveyance be severed from the remainder of the land and granted in full ownership; that
Waggoner by the several leases of the lands in question
conveyed the entire interest in the oil to the lessees; hence
the royalty provisions in the leases are at most contractual
obligations of the lessees to deliver to the lessor a part of
the oil when removed from the earth; and that such contractual rights are personalty, taxable in the county of
the domicile of the obligee.
Assuming, as appellants contend, that mineral rights
may be thus severed and conveyed, Stephens County v.
Mid-Kansas Oil & Gas Co., 113 Tex. 160; Texas Co. v.
Daugherty, 107 Tex. 227, the question remains whether
the present leases purport to convey to the lessees all
rights in the oil in the leased lands, or whether they
reserve in the lessor an undivided one-eighth share. All
the leases are in substantially the same form. They
recite that in consideration of a money payment and the
lessees' covenants, the lessor leases the described lands
"for the sole and only purpose of drilling and mining
for gas and oil." The lessees-covenant:

118

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

"To deliver to the Lessor, free of charge, in the pipe
line to which said lease may be connected, the equal oneeighth (1/8) part of all the oil and gas produced on said
premises, settlement to be made not later than the tenth
day of each month for the preceding month.
"That the Lessee will pay '8 of all increase in taxes,
by virtue of gas and oil, or either, that may be assessed
against said premises."
It is to be noted that the leases contain no words of
grant of the minerals as such, but the lands are demised
solely for the purpose of drilling and mining. The lessees
are in terms given neither title, right of appropriation nor
power of disposition of the share of the oil which is to be
delivered to the lessor when severed from the soil. The
covenant of the lessees to pay 'V8 of all increase in tax
"by virtue of gas and oil" is inconsistent with the contention that the lessor retained no interest in the minerals
in place in the soil.
In the absence of controlling authority in the Texas
courts, we can find in the terms of the leases themselves no
basis for the contention that the lessor granted or conveyed away his entire interest in the oil. The case of
Stephens County v. Mid-Kansas Oil & Gas Co., supra.
is relied upon by appellants, but in that case the lease, in
other respects similar to those now under consideration,
provided that the lessee at his option should pay the
stipulated royalties in oil or cash. It thus conferred on
the lessee the essentials of ownership: possession, with
unrestricted power of appropriation and disposition of
the oil. The lessee was therefore properly taxed as
owner. The considerations which led to that result lead
to the conclusion here that the ownership of the royalty
oil remained in the lessor who retained the power of disposition and the right to receive possession, and that his
interest was properly taxed as realty.
This conclusion is supported by the decision of the
Texas courts in Japhet v. McRae, 276 S. W. 669, indicat-

JAMES-DICKINSON CO. v. HARRY.
113

Syllabus.

ing that the lessor's right to an oil lease royalty, although
not specifically mentioned, is embraced in a conveyance
of the land by the lessor, so that upon the subdivision of
the land, the respective grantees acquire the right to the
royalty in all oil produced on the granted land. Compare the decision of the Texas courts in Jones v. O'Brien,
251 S. W. 208; O'Brien v. Jones, 274 S. W. 242, for the
application of the statute of frauds to sales of the lessor's
interest in leased lands. See also United States v. Noble,
237 U. S. 74, 80; Barnsdall v. Bradford Gas Co., 225 Pa.
St. 338, 343.
Judgment affirmed.
JAMES-DICKINSON FARM MORTGAGE
PANY ET AL. v. HARRY.

COM-

ERROR TO THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS.

No. 40.

Submitted November 29, 1926.-Decided January 10, 1927.

1. Jurisdiction over a corporation of one State cannot be acquired
in another State in which it has no place of business and is not
found, merely by serving process upon an executive officer temporarily therein, even if he be there on business of the company.
P. 122.
2. By common law, and under the Texas statute here involved (Comp.
Stat. 1920, Title 62, Arts. a-c,) the liability of one who, personally
or through agents, knowingly makes false statements with intent
that another shall act upon them, does not depend upon the receipt
of any benefit by himself. P. 122.
3. A statute making actionable as a fraud a false promise of future
action, by which the other party is induced to enter into a contract,
is within state power and not a violation of due process. P. 123.
4. A State constitutionally may make proof of one fact presumptive
evidence of another rationally connected with it, and may shift the
burden of proof. P. 124.
5. A state statute defining liability and regulating procedure in cases
of fraud in transactions involving purchase of real estate or of
stock in a corporation or joint stock company, does not violate the
equal protection clause of the Fourteenth Amendment in not embracing other frauds. P. 125.

