28

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U3. S.

BYARS v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
EIGHTH CIRCUIT.

No. 72.

Argued November 29, 1926.-Decided January 3, 1927.

1. A state search warrant, based on an information alleging that
affiant "has good reason to believe and does believe defendant has
in his possession" intoxicating liquors and instruments and materials used in the manufacturing of such liquors, can not, under the
Fourth Amendment, sustain a federal search of defendant's house
and seizure therein of counterfeit internal revenue stamps. P. 29.
2. Evidences of crime discovered by a federal officer in making a search
without lawful warrant may not be used against the victim of the
unlawful search where a timely challenge has been interposed. P. 29.
3. Constitutional provisions for the security of person and property
are to be liberally construed, and "it is the duty of courts to be
watchful for the constitutional rights of the citizen, and against any
stealthy encroachments thereon." P. 32.
4. When a federal officer participates officially with state officers in a
search, so that in substance and effect it is their joint operation, the
legality of the search and of the use in evidence of the things seized,
is to be tested, in federal prosecutions, as it would be if the undertaking were exclusively his own. P. 32.
4 F. (2d) 507,_ reversed.

(268 U. S. 684) to a judgment of the Circuit
Appeals
which affirmed a conviction of
Court of
Byars for unlawful possession of counterfeit "strip"
stamps.
CERTIORARI

Mr. Claude R. Porterfor the petitioner, submitted.
Mr. GardnerP. Lloyd, Special Assistant to the Attorney
General, with whom Solicitor GeneralMitchell was on the
brief, for the United States.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Petitioner was convicted in the federal district court for
the southern district of Iowa upon two counts for unlaw-

BYARS v. UNITED STATES.
28

Opinion of the Court.

fully having in his possession with fraudulent intentl certain counterfeit strip stamps of the kind used upon whiskey bottled in bond. The stamps were admitted in evidence over, the objection of petitioner that they had been
obtained by an unlawful search and seizure. A timely
motion previously made by the petitioner to return or
impound the stamps was overruled. The judgment of
conviction was affirmed by the court of appeals. 4 F.
(2d) 507.
The stamps were found in executing a search warrant
issued by the judge of a state municipal court and addressed to "any peace officer of Des Moines, Polk County,
Iowa," directing search for intoxicating liquors and instruments and materials used in the manufacture of such
liquors. The information upon which the search warrant
was issued states only that affiant "has good reason to
believe and does believe the defendant has in his possession " such intoxicating liquors, instruments and materials. The warrant clearly is bad if tested by the Fourth
Amendment and the laws of the United States. C. 30,
Title XI, §§ 3-6, 40 Stat. 217, 228-229; c. 85, Title II,
§ 2, 41 Stat. 305, 308. See Ripper v. United States, 178
Fed. 24, 26; United States v. Borkowski, 268 Fed. 408,
410-411; United States v. Kelly, 277 Fed. 485, 486-489.
Whether it is good under the state law it is not necessary
to inquire, since in no event could it constitute the basis
for a federal search and seizure, as, under the facts hereinafter stated, it is insisted this was.
Nor is it material that the search was successful in
revealing evidence of a violation of a federal statute. A
search prosecuted in violation of the Constitution is not
made lawful by what it brings to light; and the doctrine
has never been recognized by this Court, nor can it be
tolerated under our constitutional system, that evidences
of crime discovered by a federal officer in making a search
without lawful warrant may be used against the victim of

30

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U.S.

the unlawful search where a timely challenge has been
interposed. Weeks v. United States, 232 U. S. 383, 393;
Gouled v. United States, 255 U. S. 298, 306; Amos v.
United States, 255 U. S. 313; Silverthorne Lumber Co. v.
United States, 251 U. S. 385, 391; Agnello v. United
States, 269 U. S. 20, 33.
The warrant directs the officer to search certain described premises and, if any of the liquors, instruments or
materials set forth in the information are found, to seize
the same and keep them until final action be had thereon.
It was put into the hands of Mr. Densmore, a local officer
in charge of the night liquor bureau of the police station
in Des Moines, Iowa, and he, together with three others,
proceeded to make the search in circumstances which can
best be shown by quoting from the testimony given upon
the hearing of the motion to impound or return the property seized. Mr. Densmore testified as follows:
"As I came down stairs, I asked the Captain about
Mr. Adams who was there, and I asked him to go with
me. Mr. Adams is the Federal Prohibition Agent, stationed here in Des Moines, Iowa, an officer of the government, operating under the Treasury Department. I met
him after the warrant had been sued out, and asked him
to go with me. I had the warrant at that time. It was
in the police station of the city that I met Mr. Adams and
requested him to come along. I had not discussed this
case with Mr. Adams before that. He went with me from
the city building on the search. As far as I know, he did
not have any warrant or any authority to go into that
residence other than the authority that I may have given
him under the warrant I had. The search and seizure
was made entirely upon the authority of the warrant that
I had obtained at the City Hall. Arriving at the residence, I assigned each man a room. I assigned Adams a
room. We found no intoxicating liquors there. The only
thing that we found that we took were the stamps in-

BYARS v. UNITED STATES.
28

Opinion of the Court.

volved in this case. Mr. Taylor found part of them, and
Mr. Adams found part of them. Mr. Adams kept the
stamps he found in his possession and those found by
Mr. Taylor were turned over to him right at that time.
The ones that Adams found and the ones that were given
to him were taken possessiofi of by Adams right there in
the house of A. J. Byars, immediately after the service.
Neither myself or any of the other city officers had possession of those stamps after that evening. There was
never any prosecution attempted in the city courts or
such courts as I was connected with so far as these stamps
were involved."
Mr. Adams, the federal prohibition agent, testified:
"I remember assisting in the search of the residence of
A. J. Byars on the 22nd day of April, 1924. Officers Densmore, Taylor, DeHaven and Davis were with me. I met
them in the Captain's office at the police station in the
city of Des Moines and accompanied them to make the
search. I had no authority for going into the house other
than the search warrant that the officers had secured
from the state authorities. The only authority that I had
for going into the house of Mr. Byars was on account of
the search warrant that Mr. Densmore had. I searched
the kitchen. I found some of the stamps that were involved in this case there in the kitchen. I took possession of them then and there, and have retained them ever
since. I have retained the stamps that I found and those
that were handed me there in the house. I was not present with Mr. Taylor in the room when he found the
stamps, but they were brought to me in the dining room
by Mr. Taylor, and I took possession of them then and
there, and I have retained possession of all the stamps
from that time until this. They were never delivered to
the state officers or used by them. I do not know of any
violation of any state law that they could be used for. I
knew there was no state law governing the possession of

32

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 IT.S.

these stamps, and as a Federal Officer, I took possession
of what I found, and those found by the State Officer,
and have had them in my possession ever since and receipted to the Police officers at the Station that evening
after the return from the raid, for the stamps found."
While it is true that the mere participation in a state
search of one who is a federal officer does not render it a
federal undertaking, the court must be vigilant to scrutinize the attendant facts with an eye to detect and a hand
to prevent violations of the Constitution by circuitous
and indirect methods. Constitutional provisions for the
security of person and property are to be liberally construed, and "it is the duty of courts to be watchful
for the constitutional rights of the citizen, and against
any stealthy encroachments thereon." Boyd v. United
States, 116 U. S. 616, 635; Gouled v. United States, supra.
p. 304.
The attendant facts here reasonably suggest that the
federal prohibition agent was not invited to join the state
squad as a private person might have been, but was asked
to participate and did participate as a federal enforcement officer, upon the chance, which was subsequently
realized, that something would be disclosed of official interest to him as such agent. The house to be searched
contained only four rooms-a dining room, a kitchen and
two bedrooms. We are not prepared to accept the view
that the local officer thought a force of four men would
be insufficient to search these limited premises; and it is
significant, in that connection, that he did not ask his
superior officer for additional help, but inquired particularly for Adams, who, he knew, was the federal agent.
The stamps found were not within the purview of the
state search warrant, nor did they relate in any way to a
violation of state law. Those found by the agent were
held by him as of right and without question; those found
by the state officer were considered by both the local officer

BYARS v. UNITED STATES.
28

Opinion of the Court.

in charge and the federal agent as things which concerned
the federal government alone and then and there were
surrendered to the exclusive possession of the federal
agent,-a practical concession that he was present in his
federal character. We cannot avoid the conclusion that
the participation of the agent in the search was under
color of his federal office and that the search in substance
and effect was a joint operation of the local and federal
officers. In that view, so far as this inquiry is concerned,
the effect is the same as though he had engaged in the
undertaking as one exclusively his own. Similar questions have been presented in a variety of forms to the
lower federal courts, but nothing is to be gained by
attempting to review the decisions, since each of them
rests, as the present case does, upon its own peculiar
facts. But see and compare Flagg v. United States, 233
Fed. 481, 483; United States v. Slusser, 270 Fed. 818, 820;
United States v. Falloco, 277 Fed. 75, 82; Legman v.
United States, 295 Fed. 474, 476-478; Marron v. United
States, 8 F. (2d) 251, 259; United States v. Brown, 8
F. (2d) 630, 631.
We do not question the right of the federal government to avail itself of evidence improperly seized by state
officers operating entirely upon their own account. But
the rule is otherwise when the federal government itself,
through its agents acting as such, participates in the
wrongful search and seizure. To hold the contrary would
be to disregard the plain spirit and purpose of the constitutional prohibitions intended to secure the people
against unauthorized official action. The Fourth Amendment was adopted in view of long misuse of power in the
matter of searches and seizures both in England and the
colonies; and the assurance against any revival of it, so
carefully embodied in the fundamental law, is not to be
impaired by judicial sanction of equivocal methods,
42847°-27-3

34

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Counsel for Parties.

273 U. S.

which, regarded superficially, may seem to escape the
challenge of illegality but which, in reality, strike at the
substance of the constitutional right.
Judgment reversed.
DI SANTO v. PENNSYLVANIA.
ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF
PENNSYLVANIA.

No. 288. Argued October 27, 1926.--Decided January 3, 1927.
A state law requiring persons, other than railroad or steamship companies, who engage within the State in the sale of steamship tickets
or orders for transportation to or from foreign countries, to procure
a license, by giving prodf of moral character, paying a small annual
fee, and filing a bond as security against fraud or misrepresentation
to purchasers, is a direct burden on foreign commerce, contravening the commerce clause of the Constitution, and cannot be sustained as a proper exercise of the state police power to prevent
possible fraud. P. 35.
So held as applied to one who was authorized by four steamship
companies to sell their tickets at a specified place and who was
supplied by them with tickets, advertising matter, schedules of
sailings, and other information, and authorized by them to collect
the money for the tickets sold and required to give bonds to the
respective companies and to account to each for moneys received
for its tickets, less a percentage for his remuneration.
285 Pa. 1, reversed.

ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Pennsylvania, sustaining a conviction of Di Santo, for selling
steamship tickets without first having procured a license
as required by a law of that State.
Messrs. William H. Neely and John H. Neely, Jr., for
the plaintiff in error.
Messrs. Philip S. Moyer and E. Le Roy Keen, with
whom Mr. George W. Woodruff, Attorney General of
Pennsylvania, was on the brief, for the defendant in error.

