UNITED STATES v. RITTERMAN.
257

Syllabus.

tion of another State, to wit, of Delaware, although the
seal which is attached to the consent of the Oklahoma
Natural Gas Corporation by its president and secretary
and accompanies the motion, shows that it was incorporated not in Delaware but in Maryland.
The motion is signed by counsel for the plaintiff in
error, the Oklahoma Natural Gas Company. He does
not explain how he continues to represent plaintiff in
error, if in fact it has ceased to be, as he represents to
this Court.
In the absence of a fuller showing as to just what the
proceeding was in the district court of Tulsa County in
respect to the dissolution of the old company, and in view
of the provisions of the Oklahoma statute, we think it
unwise to grant the motion for substitution, even though
with the consent of the defendants in error. It may be
that with the disclosure of all the facts and circumstances
we may find that what was done with the consent of all
the parties to this suit is in fact a novation which we can
make effective. United States v. City Bank, 19 How.
385; Ex parte Railroad, 95 U. S. 221, 222.
We are not advised as to whether, at the time of the
dissolution of the corporation by time, liquidating trustees
of the old company were appointed under the statute. If
they were, then they should appear in this proceeding.
The motions to substitute are denied, without prejudice
to a renewal on a fuller showing.
Motions denied.
UNITED STATES v. RITTERMAN.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 669.

Argued January 19, 1927.-Decided February 21, 1927.

1. The crime of smuggling as defined by § 593(a) of the Tariff Act of
1922 is consummated if dutiable merchandise is clandestinely

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Argument for the United States.

273 U. S.

brought into the United States concealed in the owner's baggage
after the owner has fraudulently procured a waiver of inspection
in the United States by false statements to a customs officer stationed abroad. So held where the waiver was rescinded after the
owner and baggage had crossed the international boundary, and
the owner, upon arrival at the first port of entry, fraudulently
failed to declare dutiable articles when called upon. Keck v. United
States, 172 U. S. 434, distinguished. P. 268.
2. Confession in the customs house when the dutiable articles were
about to be discovered did not purge the owner of the offense.
P. 269.
3. Under the above stated circumstances, the owner was not entitled
to forty-eight hours, or any time, to change his mind and make
entry of the goods. P. 269.
12 F. (2d) 849, reversed.

CERTIORARI (post, p. 685) to a judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals which reversed a conviction of the respondent for smuggling diamonds into the United States
from Canada.
Solicitor General Mitchell, with whom Messrs. J. Kennedy White and HarryB. Amey were on the brief, for the
United States.
The clause "without paying or accounting for the
duty," contained in the statute considered in the Keck
case, 172 U. S. 474, was omitted in the reenactment by
§ 593 (a). Stress is laid in that case on the fact that
the goods "before or at the time when the obligation to
pay the duty arose, were surrendered to the customs
authorities," and on the fact that the antecedent acts
butside of the country preparatory to the commission of
the overt act of smuggling "were not followed by the
introduction of the goods into the United States" (p.
443). It is evident that the basis of the decision in the
Keck case was that the mere bringing of the merchandise
past the three-mile limit, and therefore technically within territorial waters, did not constitute smuggling, for
the very moment occasion arose to surrender the mer-

UNITED STATES v. RITTERMAN.
261

263

Argument for Respondent.

chandise for inspection and declare it, the goods were
produced and declared.
The case falls more nearly within the facts of Newman
v. United States, 276 Fed. 798. Petition for certiorari
denied, 258 U. S. 623.
The decision in the Keck case was also influenced to
some extent by the fact that at common law in England
the offense of smuggling involved "landing" the goods
and not merely bringing them inside the three-mile limit.
and in the Keck case the diamonds had not been landed.
Mr. Albert MacC. Barnes, Jr., with whom Mr. James
M. Snee was on the brief, for the respondent.
The administrative provisions of the Tariff Act of 1922
were an attempt to consolidate and re-enact all prior
statutes governing the enforcement of the Customs laws.
§ 2865 R. S. was the smuggling statute. It had been
construed by this court in Keck v. United States, 172
U. S. 474. It was re-enacted with some omissions as
§ 593a, of the Tariff Act of 1922, as a part of that consolidation plan. The Keck case produced two conclusions.
First, that the statute does not include attempts to smuggle. Second, that there can be no crime of smuggling
until the obligation to pay duties arises. Although the
second conclusion is based partly on the phraseology of
the statute, i. e., "without paying or accounting for the
duty," which words have been omitted from the present
statute, the action of the Government in the case at bar
in charging this very omission in the indictment, creates
the same question as that passed on in the Keck case.
The second conclusion, however, is based upon the definition of "smuggling" as including within it the avoidance
of the obligation to pay or account for duties, and the
phraseology used in § 2865, R. S., is cited by this Court
only as corroborative of the definition which the Court
adopted.

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Argument for Respondent.

273 U. S.

The Tariff Act of 1922 and the Customs Regulations
promulgated thereunder show a pronounced line of demarcation between ordinary commercial merchandise
shipments and passengers' baggage. They make a
further distinction between passengers' baggage from contiguous territory and from all other places. All merchandise shipped in the ordinary commercial way must be
invoiced and must also be declared in writing on entry.
Passengers' baggage need not be invoiced and the declaration thereof may be oral. All baggage or other articles
from Canada must be unladen and inspected at the first
port of arrival in the United States. There, only, the
obligation to enter, which has been defined in the Customs Regulations as "the transaction of passing merchandise through the Customs," can arise. In the case at bar
respondent at that time was deprived of his baggage.
Customs Regulations of 1923, Articles 205 and 395,
provide that customs officers shall not open the baggage
of passengers. Neither of these regulations was regarded
by the officers in this case, who, without the respondent's
knowledge and consent removed the bag from the baggage
car and concealed it in a room in the Customs House at
St. Albans, other than that in which the respondent was
being examined, and later, after asking respondent for the
key, proceeded to this other room and opened the bag with
the key supplied. The law contemplates examination of
baggage in the presence of the passenger, and this right
of the passenger was totally disregarded. During the
search of his person, without referring to the bag, before
any obligation arose to pay the duty, respondent mentioned to the collector that in his bag, the key to which
was shortly before that time requested, were certain diamonds. Under these circumstances, and on the authority
of the Keck case and the various decisions of the Circuit
Courts of Appeals, the respondent made due entry of the

UNITED STATES v. RITTERMAN.
261

265

Opinion of the Court.

diamonds and did not commit the crime of smuggling
under § 593(a) of the Tariff Act of 1922.
Under § 593 the indictment as drawn is fatally defective in that it fails to charge that the diamonds were
merchandise "which should have been invoiced." This
is not merely descriptive but is one of the essential averments which must be proved. The averment "without
causing said diamonds to be invoiced" is not equivalent
to the clause "which should have been invoiced."
Section 593(a) is distinctly a commercial merchandise
provision which has no relation to passengers' baggage
brought in from Canada. Keck v. United States, supra;
Latimer v. United States, 223 U. S. 501; United States
v. One Pearl Chain, 139 Fed. 510; affirmed 139 Fed. 513;
United States v. One Trunk, 184 Fed. 317; Newman v.
United States, 276 Fed. 798; Dodge v. United States, 131
Fed. 849; United States v. Smith, 27 Fed. Cas. No. 16319;
United States v. Nolton, 27 Fed. Cas. No. 15897.

MR. JUSTICE HOLMES delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The respondent was indicted for smuggling and clandestinely introducing into the United States from Canada,
merchandise, viz., 1022.85 carats of unset cut diamonds,
without making any declaration to enter the same, and
without causing them to be invoiced for the purpose of
ascertaining the duties upon them, and without paying or
accounting for the duties to which they were subject, although he had an opportunity to do so, with intent to
evade payment of such duties. He was convicted in the
District Court but the judgment was reversed by the
Circuit Court of Appeals. 12 F. (2d) 849. A writ of
certiorari (post, p. 685) was granted by this Court
under the Act of February 13, 1925, c. 229, amending
§ 240(a) of the Judicial Code. 43 Stat. 936, 938.

266

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U.S.

On January 28, 1926, the respondent bought a ticket in
Montreal for New York and sought to have a Gladstone
bag that he carried checked through to New York. A
customs inspector, sent there by the United States for
the convenience of travellers, asked him about the contents and he answered, 'Just my own personal wearing
apparel.' Such examination as the inspector made disclosed nothing but clothing and personal effects. The inspector thereupon tied and sealed the bag and attached
the requisite manifest. In the ordinary course of events
the strings would have been cut after crossing the boundary line and the bag would have gone on to New York
and then would have been delivered to the owner, without more. Some suspicion was felt, however, and the
respondent was again questioned after entering the United
States and repeated that he had nothing to declare. On
the train's arrival at St. Albans, Vermont, which is the
port of entry, he was called into the custom house and
there again stated that he had nothing, and more specifically, no diamonds, to declare, and on the suggestion that
he had a quantity in his possession the day before, in
Montreal, said that he had, but placed them in a bank
there, named. An examination of his person was begun
and, while he was removing his clothes, he was asked for
the key to the Gladstone bag and handed it over. The
respondent continued undressing, but, before finishing,
said to the assistant collector, 'I haven't any diamonds
on my person; they are in my grip.' Within a few minutes officers who had been examining the bag in another
room reported that diamonds had been found hidden
there. They were of the amount alleged, were valued
at $122,492.43, United States valuation, and were subject
to a duty of twenty per cent. Act of 1922, c. 356, Title
I, Schedule 14, Par. 1429, 42 Stat. 858, 917. It does
not appear that the discovery was brought about by the
confession. It seems to have been the result of search
alone.

UNITED STATES v. RITTERMAN.
261

Opinion of the Court.

The Tariff Act of 1922, c. 356, § 593(a); 42 Stat. 858,
982, is as follows:
"Smuggling and clandestine importations.-(a) If any
person knowingly and willfully, with intent to defraud
the revenue of the United States, smuggles, or clandestinely introduces, into the United States any merchandise
which should have been invoiced, or makes out or passes,
or attempts to pass, through the customhouse any false,
forged, or fraudulent invoice, every such person, his, her,
or their aiders and abettors, shall be deemed guilty of
a misdemeanor, and on conviction thereof shall be fined
in any sum not exceeding $5,000, or imprisonment for any
term of time not exceeding two years, or both, at the
discretion of the court."
The Judge gave the following instructions to the jury:
"If you find that the defendant falsely and fraudulently, intending to defraud the revenue of the United
States, told Collector Whitehill and Assistant Collector
Walsh at the customs house that he did not have any
diamonds to declare, this completed the offense of smuggling, notwithstanding that later, while his person was
being searched by Assistant Collector Walsh at the customs house, he admitted that he had some diamonds in
his Gladstone bag.
"If the defendant intended to smuggle the merchandise
in question, he had an opportunity to change his mind
up to the time when the obligation to pay or account for
duties arose, and if you believe that the defendant did
so change his mind and did so declare then it is your duty
to find him not guilty.
"If you find as a fact that the defendant had no opportunity to declare the Gladstone bag because it was seized
or taken from him, and that his first opportunity to
declare the diamonds came at the time when he was asked
for the key and before his examination was completed;

268

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

if you believe that he then availed himself of this opportunity then your verdict should be not guilty."
The first paragraph of the charge was excepted to and
was held erroneous by the Circuit Court of Appeals. It
was held that the respondent could not be convicted
under § 593. Keck v. United States, 172 U. S. 434, was
taken to establish that smuggling could not be committed
before the moment when the obligation to pay arose,
that is, after the duty was established at the custom
house.
Keck v. United States did not decide that a man who
wishes to smuggle must wait until he can find a custom
house. Its effect is simply that the customs line is not
passed by goods at sea when they pass the three-mile
limit and have not yet been landed. The statute then in
force (R. S. § 2865) after the words 'which should have
been invoiced' added 'without paying or accounting for
the duty.' The omission of the later words is explained
in different ways by the two sides, but for the purposes
of this decision we treat it as immaterial. Here diamonds
were clandestinely introduced upon the soil of the United
States, and although they would pass a point at which
they ought to be examined, they would not have been,
but on the contrary would have been secure from further
inspection, had the trick succeeded. If they had been
carried across the boundary in such a way as to avoid a
port of entry, we suppose that the offence of smuggling
would have been complete when they passed the line,
although the smuggler might repent and afterwards report
for payment of duties. We perceive no difference because
of the accident that the goods had to pass a custom house
which the respondent's fraud had deprived of further
function if it had not been found out.
It does not appear to us to need argument that the
diamonds were 'merchandise which should have been
invoiced' and appeared to be such on the face of the

AMER. RY. EXPRESS v. KENTUCKY.
261

Syllabus.

indictment. The respondent could not get rid of the
duty by hiding them in his stockings and other personal
luggage. He could not purge himself of the consequences
of his fraud by confessing when he saw that he was on the
point of being discovered or, as might have been found,
after he had been. The argument that in such circumstances he was entitled to forty-eight hours, § 484(a),
or any time to change his mind and make entry of the
goods, seems to us extravagant. Repentance came too
late.
Judgment reversed.
AMERICAN RAILWAY EXPRESS COMPANY v.
KENTUCKY.
CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE STATE OF
KENTUCKY.

No. 5. Argued January 29, 1925; reargued November 17, 18,
1925.-Decided February 21, 1927.
1. Upon review of a judgment of a state court, not explained by any
opinion, grounds of decision involving constitutional questions but
not appearing in the record can not be merely assumed. P. 272.

2. Save in exceptional circumstances, decisions of state courts on
questions of common law as locally applicable are binding in this
Court. P. 272.
3. A judgment pronounced by a state court, with jurisdiction, after
a fair hearing, is not violative of due process under the Fourteenth
Amendment, even if erroneous, if it is not evasive of a constitutional
issue or a result of arbitrary or capricious action. P. 273.
4. Petitioner, a Delaware corporation, was organized under agreement
of the interested parties, during the War, to take over the business
and operative properties of all the principal express companies;
which it did, paying them with shares of its capital stock issued
for the purpose. No provision was made for paying obligations
of the old companies. Held that indebtedness in Kentucky of one
of the old companies, which arose previously from its express
business there, could constitutionally be enforced by the Kentucky

