OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
83

Decree.

is paramount. . . . But here the sale of gas is in
wholesale quantities, not to consumers, but to distributing companies for resale to consumers in numerous cities
in different states. The paramount interest is
not local but national . . ." (p. 309). It was there
emphasized that the "business of the Supply Company,
with an exception not important here, [was] wholly interstate." (p. 306.) In Shafer v. Farmers Grain Co., 268
U. S. 189, 192, where a North Dakota regulation was held
invalid, "about 90 per cent. [of the wheat was] sold
within the state to buyers who purchase for shipment,
and ship, to terminal markets outside the state" and the
"price paid at the country elevators rises and falls with
the price at the terminal markets." In these two cases
the burden was deemed a direct one because the businesses were essentially interstate. In Pennsylvania v.
West Virginia, 262 U. S. 553, the state regulation was
held void as discriminating against interstate commerce.
In my opinion the judgment below should be reversed.
OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS, UNITED STATES,
INTERVENER.
No. 6, Original. Decree entered January 3, 1927.
Decree declaring part of the boundary between Texas and Oklahoma;
appointing and instructing a commissioner to survey and mark it,
subject to approval of the Court; with provisions as to costs.
Announced by MR. JUSTICE SANFORD.

This cause having been heard and submitted under the
counterclaim of the State of Texas, and the Court having
considered the same and announced its conclusions in an
opinion delivered October 11, 1926 [272 U. S. 21], it is
ordered, adjudged and decreed as follows:
1. The boundary between the State of Texas and the
State of Oklahoma constituting the eastern boundary of

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Decree.

273 IU.
S.

the Panhandle of Texas and the main western boundary
of Oklahoma, is the line of the true one-hundredth
meridian of longitude west from Greenwioh, extending
north from its intersection with the south bank of the
South Fork of Red River to its intersection with the line
of the parallel of 36 degrees 30 minutes north latitude.
2. Samuel S. Gannett, geodetic and astronomic engineer, is designated as commissioner to run, locate and
mark the boundary between the two States as determined
by this decree. In ascertaining and locating the line of
said meridian the commissioner shall use the most accurate method now known to science and applicable in
that locality; and he shall mark the boundary, as thus
ascertained, by establishing permanent monuments
thereon, suitably marked and at appropriate distances.
3. The commissioner shall include in his report a description of the monuments so established and of their
locations. And he shall file with his report the field notes
of his survey, showing the method used by him in ascertaining and locating the line of the meridian, and a map
showing the boundary line as run and marked by him;
also ten copies of his report and map.
4. Before entering upon his work the commissioner
shall take and subscribe his oath to perform his duties
faithfully and impartially. He shall prosecute the work
with diligence and dispatch, and shall have authority to
employ such assistants as may be needed therein; and he
shall include in his report a statement of the work done,
the time employed and the expenses incurred.
5. The work of the commissioner shall be subject in all
its parts to the approval of the Court. One copy each
of the commissioner's report and map shall be promptly
transmitted by the clerk to the Governors of the two
States and the Secretary of the Interior; and exceptions
or objections to the commissioner's report, if there be
such, shall be presented to the Court, or, if it be not in

McGUIRE v. UNITED STATES.
93

Argument for Plaintiff in Error.

session, filed with the clerk, within forty days after the
report is filed.
6. If, for any reason, there occurs a vacancy in the
commission when the Court is not in session, the same
may be filled by the designation of a new commissioner
by the Chief Justice.
7. All the costs of executing this decree, including the
compensation and expenses of the commissioner, shall be
borne in three equal parts by the two States and the
United States.
1McGUIRE v. UNITED STATES.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SECOND CIRCUIT

No. 85. Argued November 24, 1926.-Decided January 3, 1927.
Samples of intoxicating liquor constituting part of a quantity seized
by federal officers under a valid search warrant may consistently
with the Fourth and Fifth Amendments be used as evidence against
the occupant of the premises, in a prosecution under the Prohibition Act, even though when they made the seizure the officers
unlawfully destroyed the remainder of the liquor, and even assum-

ing that, by so doing, they became civilly liable as trespassers
ab initio. P. 97.
ANSWER to questions propounded by the Circuit Court
of Appeals, 6 Fed. (2d) 276, upon review of a conviction
of McGuire in the District Court for a violation of the
Prohibition Act. 300 Fed. 98.

Mr. Ransom H. Gillett for the plaintiff in error.
Congress never intended to authorize government officers to summarily destroy either liquor or any other kind
of property which they seized when acting under the
authority conferred upon them by a search warrant.
Steele v. United States, 267 U. S. 498; United States v.
9 Bbls. Beer, 6 Fed. (2d) 401; Murby v. United States,

