280

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Syllabus.

273 U. S.

that under the narrated circumstances the latter became
liable for outstanding obligations of the Southern Company contracted in Virginia. After a full and fair hearing
the trial court gave judgment therefor. The Special
Court of Appeals affirmed this action. 141 Va. 602.
What we have said in American Railway Express Co. v.
Commonwealth of Kentucky, ante, p. 269, is enough
to dispose of all material points raised here except the
claim that the judgment against the Southern Express
Company was void because not based on proper service of
process; and that is without merit. Evidently the statute
might reasonably be construed as intended to designate
an agent upon whom process should be served in suits
growing out of transactions within the State where the
corporation had failed so to do. The state court gave the
statute that effect, and we are bound by the result.
Mutual Reserve Association v. Phelps, 190 U. S. 147, 158;
Hunter v. Mutual Reserve Life Insurance Co., 218 U. S.
573.
The judgment of the court below must be
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND and MR. JUSTICE BUTLER,

dissent.
LOUISIANA & WESTERN RAILROAD COMPANY
v. GARDINER.
ERROR AND CERTIORARI TO THE COURT OF APPEAL OF THE
STATE OF LOUISIANA, FIRST CIRCUIT.
No. 120.

Argued January 12, 1927.-Decided February 21, 1927.

1. Cause held reviewable by certiorari, not error. P. 281.
2. A provision in an interstate bill of lading attempting to restrict
the institution of damage suits to two years and one day after
delivery of the property is bad under Transportation Act, 1920,

L. & W. R. R. v. GARDINER.
280

Opinion of the Court.

which declares unlawful any limitation shorter than two years
from the day when notice in writing is given by the carrier to the
claimant that the carrier has disallowed the claim or any part or
parts thereof specified in the notice. P. 284.
3. Neither the Cummins Amendment nor the Transportation Act
operates, itself, as a statute of limitation upon a suit by a shipper against a carrier for damage to goods. P. 284.
4. In the absence of a federal statute of limitations the local one is
applicable to such actions. P. 284.
Reversed.
CERTIoRARI
to a judgment of the Court of Appeal of
Louisiana which affirmed with a modification a judgment against the Railroad recovered by Gardiner for
damage to freight. The Supreme Court of the State
refused certiorari.

Mr. Harry McCall, with whom Messrs. Philip S. Pugh,
George Denegre, Victor Leovy, Henry H. Chaffe, and
Jas. H. Bruns were on the brief, for the petitioner.
No appearance for the respondent.
MR. JUSTICE MCREYNOLDS

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
After the record came here under writ of error the
Railroad Company presented a petition for certiorari.
The cause is reviewable by certiorari, and the application
therefor is granted. The writ of error will be dismissed.
April 3, 1920, the petitioner received from respondent
Gardiner at Crowley, Louisiana, various articles consigned
to himself at Murray, Kentucky, and issued to him two
bills of lading which contained this clause: "Suits for
loss, damage or delay shall be instituted only within two
years and one day after delivery of the property." The
goods were delivered at Murray in bad condition April
15, 1920. lie sued to recover for the damage in a Louisiana state court, April 12, 1922. The Company success-

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U.S.

fully relied upon the local statute of limitation-"All actions for loss of or damage to shipments of freight shall
be prescribed by two years, said prescription to run from
the date of shipment" (Act 223 of 1914).
The Court of Appeal declared: "The liability sought
to be enforced is the 'liability' of an interstate carrier
for loss or damages under an interstate contract of shipment .
.
The validity of any stipulation in such
a contract which involves the construction of the statute
and the validity of the limitation thereby imposed, is a
federal question, to be determined under the general law,
and as such is withdrawn from the field of state law or
legislation. . . . State laws limiting time for bringing suit on interstate shipments are superseded by Carmack Amendment." And it accordingly held the plea of
prescription insufficient, reversed the judgment of the trial
court and remanded the cause for further proceedings.
On the second trial judgment went for respondent for
the full amount claimed. The Court of Appeal reduced
this by the amount of the Company's claim for an undercharge and the war tax. The Supreme Court refused a
writ of certiorari.
Petitioner maintains that the federal statutes prescribe
no limitation and that the state law controls. We think
this is the correct view. The court below wrongly construed the federal statutes.
The Carmack Amendment to the Hepburn Act, June
29, 1906, c. 3591, ยง 7, 34 Stat. 584, 595, added the following
provision to Section 20, Act to Regulate Commerce, Feb.
4, 1887, c. 104, 24 Stat. 379, 386.
"That any common carrier, railroad, or transportation
company receiving property for transportation from a
point in one State to a point in another State shall issue
a receipt or bill of lading therefor and shall be liable to
the lawful holder thereof for any loss, damage, or injury
to such property caused by it or by any common carrier,

L. & W. R. R. v. GARDINER.
280

Opinion of the Court.

railroad, or transportation company to which such property may be delivered or over whose line or lines such property may pass, and no contract, receipt, rule, or regulation shall exempt such common carrier, railroad, or transportation company from the liability hereby imposed;
Provided, That nothing in this section shall deprive any
holder of such receipt or bill of lading of any remedy or
right of action which he has under existing law."
This Court held that bills of lading for interstate shipments issued after the Carmack Amendment must be
construed according to rules approved by the federal
courts and upheld provisions therein which required
claims to be filed within any specified time if reasonable.
Adams Express Co. v. Croninger,226 U. S. 491, 505; Missouri, Kansas & Texas Ry. v. Harriman,227 U. S. 657,
672; Missouri, Kansas & Texas Ry. v. Harris, 234 U. S.
412, 420; Atchison & Topeka Ry. v. Harold,241 U. S. 371,
377, 378; St. Louis, I. Mt. & So. Ry. Co. v. Starbird,243
U. S. 592, 604; Erie R. R. Co. v. Shuart, 250 U. S. 465,
467; American Ry. Exp. Co. v. Levee, 263 U. S. 19, 21.
The Cummins Amendment, March 4, 1915, c. 176, 38
Stat. 1196, 1197, modified the Carmack Amendment and
directed"That it shall be unlawful for any such common carrier
to provide by rule, contract, regulation or otherwise a
shorter period for giving notice of claims than ninety days
and for the filing of claims for a shorter period than four
months, and for the institution of suits than two years."
The Transportation Act, 1920, c. 91, 41 Stat. 456, 494,
provides"That it shall be unlawful for any such common carrier
to provide by rule, contract, regulation, or otherwise a
shorter period for giving notice of claims than ninety
days, for the filing of claims than four months, and for
the institution of suits than two years, such period for
institution of suits to be computed from the day when
notice in writing is given by the carrier to the claimant

284

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Syllabus.

273 U. S.

that .the carrier has disallowed the claim or any part
or parts thereof specified in the notice."
The bills of lading issued by petitioner undertook to
restrict the institution of suits for loss to two years and
one day after delivery of the property. This restriction
does not accord with the Transportation Act which declared unlawful any limitation shorter than two years
from the time notice is given of the disallowance of the
claim, and is therefore ineffective. See Chicago & N. W.
Ry.v. Brewsher, 6 Fed. (2d) 947. But neither the abovequoted provision from the Cummins Amendment nor the
one from the Transportation Act was intended to operate
as a statute of limitation. They restricted the freedom
of carriers to fix the period within which suit could be
brought-prohibited contracts for any shorter period than
the one specified.
Here, although the rights of the parties depended upon
instruments the meaning and effect of which must be determined according to rules approved by the federal courts,
there was no federal statute of limitations and the local
one applied. Campbell v. Haverhill, 155 U. S. 610, 613,
et seq.; ChattanoogaFoundry v. Atlanta, 203 U. S. 390,
397; Meeker & Co. v. Lehigh Valley R. R., 236 U. S.
412, 423.
The judgment of the Court of Appeal must be reversed, and the cause will be remanded there for further
proceedings not inconsistent with this opinion.
Reversed.
FARRINGTON, GOVERNOR OF HAWAII, ET AL. V.
TOKUSHIGE ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.
No. 465. Argued January 21, 1927.-Decided February 21, 1927.
1. Acts of the Legislature of Hawaii "relating to foreign language
schools and the teachers thereof," and regulations adopted there-

