BEECH-NUT CO. v. LORILLARD CO.
625

Syllabus.

would have been entitled to go to the Court of the United
States at the stage when the plaintiff went there, no
reasonable interpretation of the contract forbade the
plaintiff to go, and there is no need to consider whether
the contract could have forbidden it if it had tried.
Finally as to the rights of the appellants. It is said
that the appeal of the City is cut off by the course the
plaintiff has taken. But of course the City would not
appeal except on the ground that the plaintiff already was
given too favorable terms. The City is in the present
case and when as here the plaintiff succeeds in showing
that these terms are inadequate on constitutional grounds,
the City has had its day and has failed, and the loss of its
appeal is merely a consequence of a trial in which it has
been heard and has lost.
Decree affirmed.
MR. JusTICE BUTLER took no part in this case.
BEECH-NUT PACKING COMPANY v. P. LORILLARD COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 249.

Argued March 17, 18, 1927.-Decided April 11, 1927.

1. A trade-mark is not abandoned and destroyed, as a matter of law,
merely through disuse for five years. P. 632.
2. The fact that the good will once associated with a trade-mark has
vanished does not end at once the preferential right of the proprietor to try it again on goods of the same class. Id.
3. Asuming that, where each of two parties has the right to the same
trade name but on different types of goods, the arrangements and
accompaniments adopted by the one for its display may not lawfully be imitated by the other, the right to object may be lost by
lapse of time and change of circumstances. Id.
7 F. (2d) 967, affirmed.

OCTOBER TERM, 1026.
Opinion of the Court.
CERTIORARI

273 U. S.

(269 U. S. 551) to a decree of the Circuit

Court of Appeals affirming the District Court (299 Fed.
834) in dismissing the bill of the Beech-Nut Company
to enjoin the other party from infringing its right in the
registered trade-mark "Beech-Nut," and from acts of
alleged unfair competition.
Mr. Charles E. Hughes, with whom Messrs. Walter A.
Scott, James R. Offield, and H. McClure Johnson were
on the brief, for petitioner.
Mr. John. W. Davis, with whom Messrs. William R..
Perkins and John Milton were on the brief, for
respondent.
MR. JuSTIcE HOLMEs delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a suit in equity brought by the petitioner,
Beech-Nut Packing Company, a corporation of New
York, charging the P. Lorillard Company, a corporation
of New Jersey, with infringement of its registered trademark, 'Beech-Nut,' and with unfair competition. The
bill also takes the possibly broader ground that 'BeechNut,' being the plaintiff's trade-mark and part of its
corporate name, has become the plaintiff's badge and
autograph so far that the public seeing the mark on any
package of consumable goods will believe that the article
is of the plaintiff's make. The trade-mark was first
used on ham and bacon but gradually has been extended
to many other articles so diverse as chewing gum, peanut
butter, and ginger ale, but always, the plaintiff says, as
a guaranty of excellence, often expressed by it in advertisements, as 'Beech-Nut Quality.' The defendant uses
the words 'Beech-Nut' on chewing tobacco and cigarettes, and the bill takes the hardly consistent positions,
on the one hand that the plaintiff's reputation is hurt

BEECH-NUT CO. v. LORILLARD CO.
629

Opinion of the Court.

with its refined female customers by the belief that it
would manufacture a cheap chewing tobacco, and on the
other hand that it may wish to extend its business into
that domain. The bill was dismissed on the merits by
the District Court, 299 Fed. 834, and by the Circuit Court
of Appeals. 7 F. (2d) 967. As the principles involved
.seemed important, and as it was urged that the decision
was in conflict with decisions in other Circuit Courts of
Appeals, such as Aunt Jemima Mills Co. v. Rigney, 247
Fed. 407, and Vogue Co. v. Vogue Hat Co., 6 F. (2d)
875, a writ of certiorari was granted by this Court. 269
U. S. 551.
The plaintiff's trade-mark goes back to before the beginning of this century. The registration specially relied
upon was dated December 31, 1912, and states that the
plaintiff has adopted the mark for use upon a large number of specified objects, including those that we have
mentioned, "all in Class 46, Foods and ingredients of
foods." The defendant claims the mark 'Beechnut' for
tobacco through successive assignments from the Harry
Weissinger Tobacco Company, of Louisville, Kentucky,
which used it from and after 1897. The plaintiff does
not contest the original validity of this mark or suggest
any distinction on the ground that it originated in a different State, but says that the right has been lost by
abandomnent. It appears that brands of tobacco have
their rise and fall in popular favor, and that the Beechnut
had so declined that in 1910 only twenty-five pounds were
sold, and the trade-mark was left dormant until after
the dissolution of the American Tobacco Company which
then held it. This was in 1911, and the Lorillard Company took over the mark with many others. Then, in
connection with an effort to get a new brand that would
hit the present taste, this mark was picked out, some of
the adjuncts were changed, and in 1915 the new tobacco
was put upon the market. Nothing had happened in

OCTOBER TERM, 1026.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

the meantime to make the defendant's position worse
than if it had acted more promptly, and we see no reason
to disturb the finding of two Courts that the right to use
the mark had not been lost. The mere lapse of time was
not such that it could be said to have destroyed the right
as matter of law. A trade-mark is not only a symbol of
an existing good will, although it commonly is thought.
of only as that. Primarily it is a distinguishable token
devised or picked out with the intent to appropriate it
to a particular class of goods and with the hope that it
will come to symbolize good will. Apart from nice and
exceptional cases, and within the limits of our jurisdiction,
a trade-mark and a business may start together, and in
a qualified sense the mark is property, protected and
alienable, although as with other property its outline is
shown only by the law of torts, of which the right is a
prophetic summary. Therefore the fact that the good
will once associated with it has vanished does not end at
once the preferential right of the proprietor to try it again
upon goods of the same class with improvements that
renew the proprietor's hopes.
It may be true that in a case like the plaintiff's its
rights would not be sufficiently protected by an injunction
against using the marks upon goods of the same class as
those to which the plaintiff now applies it and to which
its registration is confined. Upon that we express no
opinion. For when it is conceded that whatever its effect
the defendant has a right to use 'Beechnut' on tobacco
unless the right has been abandoned, that possibility does
not matter. Again, it may be true that in putting a
hyphen between Beech and Nut, framing its label with
an oval and substituting a beechnut for a squirrel in the
centre the defendant was trying to get an advantage from
the plaintiff's good will and if challenged at once might
have been required to make it even plainer than it was

BEECH-NUT CO. v. LORILLARD CO.
629

Opinion of the Court.

made by the word 'Lorillard's,' in large letters upon the
label, that the plaintiff had nothing to do with the goods.
But the plaintiff waited until 1921. The Lorillard Company is at least as well known to those who do not despise
tobacco as the Beech-Nut Company is to its refined customers, and the time and the need for that additional
precaution has gone by. If the plaintiff was misled in
its reason for thinking that the defendant's right had been
kept alive it was right in its belief, and further, the
belief had no bearing on the question whether the mark
was presented in an unjustifiable form.
Now that the case has been more fully considered than
it could be on the petition for certiorari, it seems to us
that the facts do not present the nice question upon which
the petitioner wished us to pass. Both Courts having
found for the defendant, we see no ground upon which
it can be said that they were wrong as matter of law.
Joseph Schlitz Brewing Co. v. Houston Ice & Brewing
Co., 250 U. S. 28, 29.
Decree affirmed.

