392

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Syllabus.

273 U. S.

UNITED STATES v. TRENTON POTTERIES COM-

PANY ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 27.

Argued November 30, December 1, 1926.-Decided February 21, 1927.

1. A charge to a jury which was correctly given and adequately
covered the case is not made erroneous by a refusal to charge m
another correct form or to quote from opinions of this Court, or by
the fact that it was inspired by a mistaken view of the law disclosed
in a ruling previous to the trial. P. 396.
2. An agreement of those controlling over 80% of the business of
manufacturing and distributing sanitary pottery in the United
States, to fix and maintain uniform prices, violates the Sherman
Act, whether the prices in themselves were reasonable or unreasonable. Chicago Bd. of Trade v. United States, 246 U. S. 231,
distinguished. P. 396.
3. In a case of conviction and sentences upon two counts, where
the sentences are in part concurrent, but do not, combined, exceed
that which could have been imposed on either count alone; where
the first count is sufficient and the case under it was properly.
submitted to the jury, and the record does not suggest that the
verdict on that count was induced by evidence introduced upon
the other,--objections relating to the second count may be disregarded. P. 401.
4. Under the Sherman Act, the offensive agreement or conspiracy
is criminal whether or not followed by efforts to carry it into
effect; but where the indictment does not charge its formation
in the district, the District Court is without jurisdiction unless
some act in pursuance of it took place there. P. 402.
5. Failure of the court to instruct that overt acts in the district
were necessary to the jurisdiction or venue, though charging that
they were not necessary to constitute the offence, was not a
ground for reversal, where the defendants made no request to
charge and where the jurisdictional facts were not in dispute but
were clearly established by the evidence. P. 402.
6. Where much evidence was taken and a wide range of inquiry
covered, a new trial is not lightly to be ordered on technical
errors in the admission of evidence which do not affect matters of
substance. P. 404.

UNITED STATES v. TRENTON POTTERIES.
392

393

Opinion of the Court.

7. In a prosecution of corporations and individuals under the Sherman Act, where the manager of a corporation in the same line
of business but which was not one of the defendants, testified
on their behalf, and on cross examination, being asked whether
his company had not pleaded guilty to a violation of that Art,
replied, "I don't know anything about that at all," the answer
did not so prejudice the defendants as to justify a reversal, even
if the question was improper. P. 404.
8. Upon redirect examination, an inquiry, relevant and otherwise
competent may not be excluded merely because of its tendency to
discredit the witness by showing his relations with unreliable persons. P. 405.
9. In a prosecution under the Sherman Act, refusal to admit conclusions of defendants' witnesses as to the existence of competition was not erroneous, when full opportunity was given to prove
by details and records of actual transactions the conditions of the
industry within the period in question. P. 406.
300 Fed. 550, reversed.

CERTIORARI (266 U. S. 597) to a judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals which reversed a conviction under
the Sherman Act. The defendants were twenty individuals and twenty-three corporations engaged in the
manufacturing of vitreous pottery fixtures used in bathrooms and lavatories.

Assistant to the Attorney General Donovan, with
whom Solicitor General Mitchell and Messrs. Rush H.
Williamson, and Williant D. Whitney, Special Assistants
to the Attorney General, were on the briefs, for the
United States.
Mr. Charles E. Hughes, vith whom Messrs. George
Wharton Pepper,Edward L. Katzenbach, George H. Calvert, John W. Bishop, Jr., and H. Snowden Marshall
were on the brief, for respondents.
MR. JUSTICE STONE delivered the opinion of the Court.
Respondents, twenty individuals and twenty-three corporations, were convicted in the district court for south-

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

ern New York of violating the Sherman Anti-Trust Law,
Act of July 2, 1890, c. 647, 26 Stat. 209. The indictment was in two counts. The first charged a combination to fix and maintain uniform prices for the sale of
sanitary pottery, in restraint of interstate commerce; the
second, a combination to restrain interstate commerce by
limiting sales of pottery to a special group known to respondents as "legitimate jobbers." On appeal, the court
of appeals for the second circuit reversed the judgment
of conviction on both counts on the ground that there
were errors in the conduct of the trial. 300 Fed. 550.
This Court granted certiorari. 266 U. S. 597. Jud. Code,
§ 240.
Respondents, engaged in the manufacture or distribution of 82 per cent. of the vitreous pottery fixtures produced in the United States for use in bathrooms and lavatories, were members of a trade organization known as the
Sanitary Potters' Association. Twelve of the corporate
respondents had their factories and chief places of business in New Jersey; one was located in California and
the others were situated in Illinois, Michigan, West Virginia, Indiana, Ohio and Pennsylvania. Many of them
sold and delivered their product within the southern
district of New York and some maintained sales offices
and agents there.
There is no contention here that the verdict was not
supported by sufficient evidence that respondents, controlling some 82 per cent. of the business of manufacturing
and distributing in the United States vitreous pottery of
the type described, combined to fix prices and to limit
sales in interstate commerce to jobbers.
The issues raised here by the government's specification of errors relate only to the decision of the court of
appeals upon its review of certain rulings of the district
court made in the course of the trial. It is urged that the
court below erred in holding in effect (1) that the trial

UNITED STATES v. TRENTON POTTERIES.
392

395

Opinion of the Court.

court should have submitted to the jury the question
whether the price agreement complained of constituted
an unreasonable restraint of trade; (2) that the trial
court erred in failing to charge the jury correctly on the
question of venue; and (3) that it erred also in the admission and exclusion of certain evidence.
REASONABLENESS OF RESTRAINT.

The trial court charged, in submitting the case to the
jury, that if it found the agreements or combination complained of, it might return a verdict of guilty without
regard to the reasonableness of the prices fixed, or the good
intentions of the combining units, whether prices were
actually lowered or raised or whether sales were restricted
to the special jobbers, since both agreements of themselves were unreasonable restraints. These instructions
repeated in various forms applied to both counts of the
indictment. The trial court refused various requests to
charge that both the agreement to fix prices and the
agreement to limit sales to a particular group, if found,
did not in themselves constitute violations of law unless
it was also found that they unreasonably restrained interstate commerce. In particular the court refused the
request to charge the following:
"The essence of the law is injury to the public. It is
not every restraint of competition and not every restraint
of trade that works an injury to the public; it is only an
undue and unreasonable restraint of trade that has such
an effect and is deemed to be unlawful."
Other requests of similar purport were refused including
a quotation from the opinion of this Court in Chicago
Board of Trade v. United States, 246 U. S. 231, 238.
The court below held specifically that the trial court
erred in refusing to charge as requested and held in effect
that the charge as given on this branch of the case was

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

erroneous. This determination was based upon the assumption that the charge and refusals could be attributed
only to a mistaken view of the trial judge, expressed in
denying a motion at the close of the case to quash and
dismiss the indictment, that the "rule of reason" announced in Standard Oil Co. v. Unitea States, 221 U. S.
1, and in American Tobacco Co. v. United States, 221
U. S. 106, which were suits for injunctions, had no application in a criminal prosecution. Compare Nash v.
United States, 229 U. S. 373.
This disposition of the matter ignored the fact that the
trial judge plainly and variously charged the jury that the
combinations alleged in the indictment, if found, were
violations of the statute as a matter of law, saying:
". . .the law is clear that an agreement on the part
of the members of a combination controlling a substantial
part of an industry, upon the prices which the members
are to charge for their commodity, is in itself an undue and
unreasonable restraint of trade and commerce;
If the charge itself was correctly given and adequately
covered the various aspects of the case, the refusal to
charge in another correct form or to quote to the jury
extracts from opinions of this Court was not error, nor
should the court below have been concerned with the
wrong reasons that may have inspired the charge, if correctly given. The question therefore to be considered
here is whether the trial judge correctly withdrew from
the jury the consideration of the reasonableness of the
particular restraints charged.
That only those restraints upon interstate commerce
which are unreasonable are prohibited by the Sherman
Law was the rule laid down by the opinions of this Court
in the Standard Oil and Tobacco cases. But it does not
follow that agreements to fix or maintain prices are reasonable restraints and therefore permitted by the statute,
merely because the prices themselves are reasonable.

UNITED STATES v. TRENTON POTTERIES.
392

397

Opinion of the Court.

Reasonableness is not a concept of definite and unchanging content. Its meaning necessarily varies in the different fields of the law, because it is used as a convenient
summary of the dominant considerations which control in
the application of legal doctrines. Our view of what is a
reasonable restraint of commerce is controlled by the
recognized purpose of the Sherman Law itself. Whether
this type of restraint is reasonable or not must be judged
in part at least in the light of its effect on competition,
for whatever difference of opinion there may be among
economists as to the social and economic desirability of
an unrestrained competitive system, it cannot be doubted
that the Sherman Law and the judicial decisions interpreting it are based upon the assumption that the public
interest is best protected from the evils of monopoly and
price control by the maintenance of competition. See
United States v. Trans-MissouriFreight Association, 166
U. S. 290; Standard Oil Co. v. United States, supra;
American Column Co. v. United States, 257 U. S. 377,
400; United States v. Linseed Oil Co., 262 U. S. 371, 388;
Eastern States Lumber Association v. United States, 234
U. S. 600, 614.
The aim and result of every price-fixing agreement, if
effective, is the elimination of one form of competition.
The power to fix prices, whether reasonably exercised or
not, involves power to control the market and to fix arbitrary and unreasonable prices. The reasonable price fixed
today may through economic and business changes become
the unreasonable price of tomorrow. Once established, it
may be maintained unchanged because of the absence of
competition secured by the agreement for a price reasonable when fixed. Agreements which create such potential
power may well be held to be in themselves unreasonable
or unlawful restraints, without the necessity of minute
inquiry whether a particular price is reasonable or unreasonable as fixed and without placing on the government

398

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

in enforcing the Sherman Law the burden of ascertaining
from day to day whether it has become unreasonable
through the mere variation of economic conditions.
Moreover, in the absence of express legislation requiring
it, we should hesitate to adopt a construction making the
difference between legal and illegal conduct in the field of
business relations depend upon so uncertain a test as
whether prices are reasonable-a determination which can
be satisfactorily made only after a complete survey of our
economic organization and a choice between rival philosophies. Compare United States v. Cohen Grocery Co.,
255 U. S. 81; International Harvester Co. v. Kentucky,
234 U. S. 216; Nash v. United States, supra. Thus viewed,
the Sherman law is not only a prohibition against the
infliction of a particular type of public injury. It "is a
limitation of rights, . . . which may be pushed to evil
consequences and therefore restrained." Standard Sanitary Mfg. Co. v. United States, 226 U. S. 20, 49.
That such was the view of this Court in deciding the
StandardOil and Tobacco cases, and that such is the effect
of its decisions both before and after those cases, does not
seem fairly open to question. Beginning with United
States v. Trans-Missouri Freight Association, supra;
United States v. Joint Traffic Association, 171 U. S. 505,
where agreements for establishing reasonable and uniform
freight rates by competing lines of railroad were held
unlawful, it has since often been decided and always
assumed that uniform price-fixing by those controlling in
any substantial manner a trade or business in interstate
commerce is prohibited by the Sherman Law, despite the
reasonableness of the particular prices agreed upon. In
Addyston Pipe & Steel Co. v. United States, 175 U. S. 211,
237, a case involving a scheme for fixing prices, this Court
quoted with approval the following passage from the
lower court's opinion, (85 Fed. 271, 293):

UNITED STATES v. TRENTON POTTERIES.
392

399

Opinion of the Court.

"...
the affiants say that, in their opinion, the prices
at which pipe has been sold by defendants have been
reasonable. We do not think the issue an important one,
because, as already stated, we do not think that at common law there is any question of reasonableness open to
the courts with reference to such a contract." See also,
p. 291.
In Swift & Co. v. United States, 196 U. S. 375, this
Court approved and affirmed a decree which restrained the
defendants "by combination, conspiracy or contract
[from] raising or lowering prices or fixing uniform prices
at which the said meats will be sold, either directly or
through their respective agents." In Dr. Miles Medical
Co. v. Park & Sons Co., 220 U. S. 373, 408, decided at
the same term of court as the Standard Oil and Tobacco
cases, contracts fixing reasonable resale prices were
declared unenforcible upon the authority of cases
involving price-fixing arrangements between competitors.
That the opinions in the Standard Oil and Tobacco
cases were not intended to affect this view of the illegality of price-fixing agreements affirmatively appears
from the opinion in the Standard Oil case where, in considering the Freight Association case, the court said

(p. 65):
"That as considering the contracts or agreements, their
necessary effect and the character of the parties by whom
they were made, they were clearly restraints of trade
within the purview of the statute, they could not be taken
out of that category by indulging in general reasoning as
to the expediency or non-expediency of having made the
contracts or the wisdom or want of wisdom of the statute
which prohibited their being made. That is to say, the
cases but decided that the nature and character of the
contracts, creating as they did a conclusive presumption
which brought them within the statute, such result was

400

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

not to be disregarded by the substitution of a judicial
appreciation of what the law ought to be for the plain
judicial duty of enforcing the law as it was made."
And in Thompson v. Cayser, 243 U. S. 66, 84, it was
specifically pointed out that the Standard Oil and Tobacco
cases did not overrule the earlier cases. The decisions in
Maple Flooring Association v. United States, 268 U. S.
563, and in Cement Manufacturers'ProtectiveAssociation

v. United States, 268 U. S. 588, were made on the assumption that any agreement for price-fixing, if found, would
have been illegal as a matter of law. In Federal Trade
Commission v. Pacific States Paper Trade Association,

ante, p. 52, we upheld orders of the Commission forbidding price-fixing and prohibiting the use of agreed
price lists by wholesale dealers in interstate commerce,
without regard to the reasonableness of the prices.
Cases in both the federal and state courts' have generally proceeded on a like assumption, and in the second
circuit the view maintained below that the reasonableness
or unreasonableness of the prices fixed must be submitted
.'The illegality of such agreements has commonly been assumed without consideration of the reasonableness of the price levels established.
Loder v. Jayne, 142 Fed. 1010; Craft v. McConoughy, 79 IU.346;
Vulcan Power Co. v. Hercules Powder Co., 96 Cal. 510; Johnson v.
People, 72 Colo. 218; People v. Amanna, 203 App. Div. 548; see
Trenton Potteries Co. v. Oliphant, 58 N. J. Eq. 507, 521; Beechley v.
Mulville, 102 Iowa 602, 608; People v. Milk Exchange, 145 N. Y. 267
(purchase prices). In many of these cases price-fixing was accompanied by other factors contributing to the illegality.
Upon the precise question, there has been diversity of view. People
v. Sheldon, 139 N. Y. 251; State v. Eastern Coal Co., 29 R. I. 254,
256, 265; Pope, Legal Aspect of Monopoly, 20 Harvard Law Rev. 167,
178; Watkins, Change in Trust Policy, 35 Harvard Law Rev. 815,
821-3; (reasbnableness of prices immaterial) contra: Cade & Sons v.
Daly, [1910] 1 Ir. Ch. 306; Central Shade Roller Co. v. Cushman,
143 Mass. 353; Skrainka v. Scharringhausen,8 Mo. App. 522; Dueber
Watch Case Mfg. Co. v. Howard Watch Co., 55 Fed. 851.

UNITED STATES v. TRENTON POTTERIES.

401

Opinion of the Court.

392

to the jury has apparently been abandoned. See Poultry
Dealers' Association v. United States, 4 Fed. (2d) 840.
While not necessarily controlling, the decisions of this
Court denying the validity of resale price agreements,
regardless of the reasonableness of the price, are persuasive. See Dr. Miles Medical Co. v. Park & Sons Co.,
supra;Boston Store of Chicago v. American Graphophone
Co., 246 U. S. 8; United States v. Schrader's Sons, 252
U. S. 85; Federal Trade Commission v. Beechnut Packing
Co., 257 U. S. 441.
Respondents rely upon Chicago Board of Trade v.
United States, supra, in which an agreement by members
of the Chicago Board of Trade controlling prices during
certain hours of the day in a special class of grain contracts and affecting only a small proportion of the commerce in question was upheld. The purpose and effect
of the agreement there was to maintain for a part of each
business day the price which had been that day determined by open competition on the floor of the Exchange.
That decision, dealing as it did with a regulation of a
board of trade, does not sanction a price agreement among
competitors in an open market such as is presented here.
The charge of the trial court, viewed as a whole, fairly
submitted to the jury the question whether a price-fixing
agreement as described in the first count was entered into
by the respondents. Whether the prices actually agreed
upon were reasonable or unreasonable was irmnaterial in
the circumstances charged in the indictment and necessarily found by the verdict. The requested charge which
we have quoted, and others of similar tenor, while true
as abstract propositions, were inapplicable to the case in
hand and rightly refused.
The first count being sufficient and the case having been
properly submitted to the jury, we may disregard certain
42847°-27

26

402

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

like objections relating to the second count. The jury
returned a verdict of guilty generally on both counts.
Sentence was imposed in part on the first count and in
part on both counts, to run concurrently. The combined
sentence on both counts does not exceed that which could
have been imposed on one alone. There is nothing in the
record to suggest that the verdict of guilty on the first
count was in any way induced by the introduction of
evidence upon the second. In these circumstances the
judgment must be sustained if either one of the two
counts is sufficient to support it. Claassen v. United
States, 142 U. S. 140; Locke v. United States, 7 Cranch
339, 344; Clifton v, UnitedStates, 4 How. 242, 250,
QUESTION OF VENUE.

The trial court instructed the jury in substance that if
it found that the respondents did conspire to restrain
trade as charged in the indictment, then it was immaterial
whether the agreements were ever actually carried out,
whether the purpose of the conspiracy was accomplished
in whole or in part, or whether an effort was made to
carry the object of the conspiracy into effect. The court
below recognized that this charge was a correct statement
of the general proposition of law that the offensive agreement or conspiracy alone, whether or not followed by
efforts to carry it into effect, is a violation of the Sherman
Law. Nash v. United States, supra. And it was clearly
the intent and purpose of the trial judge to deal with that
aspect of the case in giving it. But the appellate court
held the charge erroneous and ground for reversal because
the trial judge did not go further and charge the necessity of finding overt acts within the southern district of
New York to satisfy jurisdictional requirements. Since
the indictment did not charge the formation of the conspiracy or agreement within that district, the court was
without jurisdiction unless some act pursuant to the agree-

UNITED STATES v. TRENTON POTTERIES.
392

403

Opinion of the Court.

ment or conspiracy took place there. Hyde v. United
States, 225 U. S. 347; Easterday v. McCarthy, 256 Fed.
651.
This part of the charge, so far as respondents deemed it
objectionable in that the absence of efforts to carry out
the agreement might be taken into account in determining
whether it was in fact made, was promptly remedied by an
instruction that the jury might consider all the facts in
determining whether a combination or conspiracy had
been entered into. But respondents made no request to
charge with respect to venue or the jurisdictional necessity of overt acts within the district. Neither did they
except to the charge as given nor move to dismiss the indictment on that ground. A motion in arrest of judgment
was directed to the jurisdictional sufficiency of the.indictment but the adequacy of the evidence establishing jurisdiction was not questioned.
The reason for this complete failure of respondents to
point out the objection to the charge now urged, or otherwise to suggest to the trial court the desirability of a
charge upon the facts necessary to satisfy jurisdictional
requirements is made plain by an inspection of the record.
In point of substance, the jurisdictional facts were not
in issue. Although the respondents were widely scattered,
an important market for their manufactured product was
within the southern district of New York, which was
therefore a theatre for the operation of their conspiracy,
adjacent to the home of the largest group of the respondents located in a single state. The indictment sufficiently
alleged that the conspiracy was carried on in the southern
district of New York by combined action under it. The
record is replete with the evidence of witnesses for both
prosecution and defense, including some of the accused,
who testified without contradiction to tthe course of business within the district, the circulation of price bulletins,
and the making of sales there by some of the members of

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

the association organized by respondents. The secretary
testified that, acting for the association, he effected sales
within the district. All of these were overt acts sufficient
for jurisdictional requirements. In such a state of the
record, the appellate court might well have refused to
exercise its discretionary power to disturb the conviction
because of the trial court's failure to give a charge not
requested. If this failure to guard against the misinterpretation of a correct charge is to be deemed error it was
of such slight consequence in the actual circumstances of
the case and could have been so easily corrected by the
trial judge had his attention been directed to it, that the
respondents should not have been permitted to reap the
benefit of their own omission.
QUESTIONS OF

EVIDENcE.

The alleged errors in receiving and excluding evidence
were rightly described by the court below as minor points.
The trial lasted four and one-half weeks. A great mass
of evidence was taken and a wide range of inquiry covered.
In such a case a new trial is not lightly to be ordered on
grounds of technical errors in ruling on the admissibility
of evidence which do not affect matters of substance. We
take note only of some of the objections raised which
sufficiently indicate the character of others, all of which
we have considered.
Respondents called as a witness the manager of a potteries corporation which was not a defendant. On crossexamination, he was asked whether he knew that his concern had pleaded guilty to a violation of the Sherman Act,
to which he answered, "I don't know anything about that
at all." While it may be within the discretion of the trial
judge to limit cross-examination of this type, we would
not be prepared to say that such a question, when allowed,
would be improper, if its admissibility were urged on the

UNITED STATES v. TRENTON POTTERIES.
392

405

Opinion of the Court.

ground that it was directed to the bias of the witness,
Wabash Screen Door Co. v. Black, 126 Fed. 721, 726;
2 Wigmore, Evidence (2d ed.) § 949, or that it was preliminary to showing his implication in the supposed offense,
and thus affecting his credibility. But in any case, we do
not think the answer given prejudiced the respondents in
any such substantial way as to justify a reversal. Davis v.
Coblens, 174 U. S. 719, 727; Blitz v. United States, 153
U. S. 308, 312.
It was a part of the government's case to show that it
was the purpose of respondents, in aid of their price-fixing
agreement, not to sell second grade or Class "B" pottery
in the domestic market. The government offered evidence, including the testimony of the secretary of the
respondents' association, to show that a distinct association of jobbers of pottery was co6perating in this effort
and that its secretary had tendered his active assistance
to confine the sale of this class of pottery to the export
trade. On cross-examination of the secretary of the
respondents' association, the fact was brought out that at
one time twenty out of twenty-four members were selling
Class "B" pottery in the domestic market. On re-direct
examination, the government asked questions of the witness tending to show that at about that time the secretary
of the Jobbers' Association had been called for examination before a committee of the New York Legislature,
conducting a general investigation into restraints of trade
and extortions in connection with the building industry in
New York City and vicinity, an investigation of which
the lower court took judicial notice. It was held below
and it is urged here that because of the known character
of the investigation, the evidence should have been
excluded because it improperly "smirched" the witness
by showing that he had relations with an "unreliable"
person, But the brief statement which we have given of

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

the record makes it plain that the testimony sought was
material in explaining the failure of the members of the
respondents' association at that time to confine their sales
of Class " B" pottery to the export market as promised.
The inquiry was not directed to the impeachment of the
government's own witness. Its purpose was to dispel the
adverse impression possibly created by the cross-examination. An inquiry otherwise relevant and competent may
not be excluded merely because it tends to discredit the
witness by showing his relations with unreliable persons.
Respondents called numerous witnesses who were either
manufacturers or wholesale dealers in sanitary pottery, to
show that competition existed among manufacturers, particularly the respondents, in the sale of such pottery. On
direct examination these witnesses were asked in varying
form, whether they had observed or noted competition
among the members of the association. The questions
were objected to and excluded on the ground that they
were too general and vague in character and called for the
opinion or conclusion of the witness.
Whenever the witness was asked as to the details of
transactions showing competition in sales, his testimony
was admitted and the introduction of records of prices
in actual transactions was facilitated by stipulation.
Whether or not such competition existed at any given
time is a conclusion which could be reached only after the
consideration of relevant data known to the witness.
Here the effort was made to show the personal conclusion
of the witness without the data and without, indeed,
showing that the conclusion was based upon knowledge
of relevant facts. Hence, the offered evidence, in some
instances, took the form of vague impressions, or recollections of the witness as to competition, without specifying
the kind or extent of competition.

SWISS OIL CORP. v. SHANKS.
392

Syllabus.

A certain latitude may rightly be given the court in permitting a witness on direct examination to testify as to his
conclusions, based on common knowledge or experience.
Compare Erie R. R. v. Linnekogel, 248 Fed. 389; 2 Wigmore, § 1929. Even if these questions could properly have
been allowed here, we cannot say that the discretion of the
court was improperly exercised in excluding the conclusions of the witnesses as to competitive conditions when
full opportunity was given to prove by relevant data the
conditions of the industry within the period in question.
Other objections urged by respondents to the sufficiency
of the indictment and charge have received our consideration but do not require comment.
It follows that the judgment of the circuit court of
appeals must be reversed and the judgment of the district
court reinstated.
Reversed.
MR. JUSTICE VAN DEVANTER, MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND

and MR. JUSTICE BUTLER dissent.
MR.

JUSTICE BRANDEIS took no part in the consideration

or decision of this case.
SWISS OIL CORPORATION v. SHANKS, AUDITOR.
ERROR TO THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THE COMMONWEALTH
OF KENTUCKY.

No. 148. Argued January 21, 1927.-Decided February 21, 1927.
1. Upon review of a decision of a state court construing the state
law as denying the relief sought by the appealing party even if
the particular state statute attacked by him were assumed to be
invalid, the constitutionality of that statute is not involved in this

Court. P. 411.

