70

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Syllabus.

273 U. S.

tiff's had no cause of action, since the naming of quantities "cannot be regarded as in the nature of a warranty,
but merely an estimate of the probable amounts in reference to which good faith only could be required of the
party making it."

This principle is conclusive of the present case. And
for this reason, if no other, a motion made by the Maguire Company to remand the cause to the Court of
Claims for a further finding of fact as to the weight
of the duck before waterproofing, must be denied.
The judgment is
Affirmed.

LIBERTY WAREHOUSE COMPANY T AL. v.
GRANNIS, COMMONWEALTH ATTORNEY.
ERROR TO THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
EASTERN DISTRICT OF KENTUCKY.

No. 60. Argued December 7, 1926.-Decided January 3, 1927.
1. Under Art. III of the Constitution the jurisdiction of the federal
courts is limited to cases and controversies presented in such form,
with adverse litigants, that the judicial power is capable of acting
upon them and of pronouncing and carrying into effect a judgment
between the parties, and does not extend to the determination of
abstract questions or issues framed for the purpose of invoking the
advice of the court without real parties or a real case. P. 73.
2. So held of a proceeding in the District Court brought under the
Declaratory Judgment Law of Kentucky, against a prosecuting
attorney, for the purpose of obtaining a declaration concerning the
construction and validity of an act of the State regulating sales of
leaf tobacco at public auction, in which there was no allegation
that the plaintiffs had done or were contemplating any of the
things forbidden by and punishable under the Act, or that the
defendant threatened proceedings against them; or any prayer for
relief against him.
3. The federal Conformity Act relates only to "practice, pleadings,
and forms and modes of procedure "; and neither purports to nor
can extend the jurisdiction of the district courts beyond the constitutional limitations. P. 76.

LIBERTY WAREHOUSE CO. v. GRANNIS.
70

71

Opinion of the Court.

4. Section 274a of the Judicial Code relates merely to a case in which
the objection is to the side of the court on which the suit is brought,
and not to the entire lack of jurisdiction in the court. P. 76.
Affirmed.

EmoR to a judgment of the District Court dismissing
for want of jurisdiction an action brought under the
Declaratory Judgment Law of Kentucky.
Mr. Allan D. Cole, with whom Mr. J. M. Collins was
on the brief, for the plaintiff in error.
Messrs. Aaron Sapiro and Robert S. Marx were on the
brief, for the defendant in error.
Mr. JUSTICE SANFORD delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This proceeding was commenced by a petition filed by
the plaintiffs in error on the law side of the Federal District Court for Eastern Kentucky, seeking to obtain a
judgment declaring their rights under an Act of the Kentucky Legislature.
The Declaratory Judgment Law of Kentucky, Acts of
1922, ch. 83, provides that in any action in a court of
record of that Commonwealth having general jurisdiction
wherein it is made to appear that an actual controversy
exists, the plaintiff may, by means of a petition on the
law or equity side of the court, as the nature of the case
may require, ask for and obtain "a declaration of rights,
either alone or with other relief; and the court may make
a binding declaration of rights, whether or not consequential relief is or could be asked; " and that further
relief, based on such declaratory judgment, may be granted
by the court whenever necessary or proper, either in the
same proceeding or in an independent action, upon notice
to any adverse party whose rights have been adjudicated
by the declaratory judgment.

72

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

The petition alleged that the plaintiffs, a Kentucky
corporation and a citizen of North Carolina, were engaged
in operating a looseleaf tobacco warehouse in Kentucky,
in which they sold leaf tobacco at public auction for their
customers and patrons; that their rights were materially
and seriously affected by chapter 10 of the Kentucky
Acts of 1924, regulating the sales of leaf tobacco at public auction; that this Act was invalid and repugnant to
the Bill of Rights and Constitution of Kentucky, the
commerce clause of the Constitution of the United States,
the due process and equal protection clauses of the Fourteenth Amendment, and the Sherman Anti-Trust Law;
that an actual controversy existed with respect thereto,
in that the plaintiffs had been threatened with various
civil and criminal punishments and penalties for the violation of the Act, which were about to be enforced thereunder; that in conducting their business, it was necessary
for them to know whether the Act was valid or invalid,
and whether they were liable for the crimes therein denounced, and subject to the fines and penalties it prescribed, and they could not continue their business without a financial loss, amounting to confiscation of their
rights, business and property, unless the court made a
declaration of their rights and duties under the Act; that
they made this application to the court in accordance
with the Federal Conformity Statute and the Declaratory
Judgment Law of Kentucky "for the purpose of securing
a declaration of their rights and duties" under the Act
of 1924, and having the "court determine whether in the
conduct of their business it will be necessary for them to
comply" with the provisions of the Act, or whether it is
"invalid in whole or in part, and if so, in what part ";
and that the Commonwealth Attorney was made a party
defendant as the representative of the Commonwealth
charged with the duty of enforcing the Act, and who, as
such, "prepared the indictments referred to herein." No

LIBERTY WAREHOUSE CO. v. GRANNIS.
70

73

Opinion of the Court.

other reference, however, was made to any such indictments in the petition.
The plaintiffs prayed the court "by its judgment to
declare what their rights and duties under said Act of
1924 are, and that a judgment be rendered declaring said
Act of 1924 invalid, and for all proper relief."
The defendant demurred to the petition, on the ground,
among others, that the court had no jurisdiction of the
cause of action set forth, having no power or authority
as a Federal Court to entertain a proceeding for a declaration of the rights of parties or to act under the provisions
of the Declaratory Judgment Law of Kentucky. This
demurrer was sustained. Twelve days later a final judgment was entered, reciting that the plaintiffs having failed
to amend their petition, and the court being of opinion
that it had no jurisdiction of the action, the same was
dismissed. This direct writ of error was allowed upon the
question of jurisdiction, under § 238 of the Judicial Code,
before the amendment made by the Jurisdictional Act of
1925 became effective.
The sole purpose of the petition, as shown by its express allegations, is to obtain a declaration from the District Court of the rights and duties of the plaintiffs under
the Act of 1924, and a determination of the extent to
which they must comply with its provisions in the conduct
of their business. This is its entire scope. While the
Commonwealth Attorney is made a defendant as a representative of the Commonwealth, there is no semblance of
any adverse litigation with him individually; there being
neither any allegation that the plaintiffs have done or
contemplate doing any of the things forbidden by the Act
before being advised by the court as to their rights, nor
any allegation that the Commonwealth Attorney has
threatened to take or contemplates taking any action
against them for any violation of the Act, either past or
prospective. And no relief of any kind is prayed against
him, by restraining action on his part or otherwise.

74

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

The question whether the District Court has jurisdiction to entertain such a petition for a declaration of rights
admits of but one answer under the prior decisions of this
Court.
We need not review these at length. It suffices to say
that in the light of the decisions in Muskrat v. United
States, 219 U. S. 346, 357; Fairchildv. Hughes, 258 U. S.
126, 129; Texas v. Interstate Commerce Comm., 258 U. S.
158, 162; Keller v. PotomacElec. Co., 261 U. S. 428, 444;
Massachusetts v. Mellon, 262 U. S. 447, 488; New Jersey
v. Sargent, 269 U. S. 328, 330; and Postum Cereal Co. v.
CaliforniaFig-Nut Co., 272 U. S. 693, in which the principles stated in earlier cases are considered and appliedit is not open to question that the judicial power vested
by Article III of the Constitution in this Court and the
inferior courts of the United States established by Congress thereunder, extends only to "cases" and " controversies" in which the claims of litigants are brought before them for determination by such regular proceedings
as are established for the protection and enforcement of
rights, or the prevention, redress, or punishment of
wrongs; and that their jurisdiction is limited to cases and
controversies presented in such form, with adverse litigants, that the judicial power is capable of acting upon
them, and pronouncing and carrying into effect a judgment between the parties, and does not extend to the determination of abstract questions or issues framed for
the purpose of invoking the advice of the court without
real parties or a real case.
In the Muskrat case, supra, in which it was held that it
was not within the constitutional authority of this Court
to entertain an appeal from the Court of Claims in a suit
brought, under a permissive act of Congress, by members
of the Cherokee Tribe of Indians to determine the constitutional validity of certain congressional enactments,
the Court, in an extended opinion reviewing the earlier

LIBERTY WAREHOUSE CO. v. GRANNIS.
70

75

Opinion of the Court.

cases, said: "As we have already seen by the express
terms of the Constitution, the exercise of the judicial
power is limited to 'cases' and 'controversies.' Beyond
this it does not extend, and unless it is asserted in a case
or controversy within the meaning of the Constitution,
the power to exercise it is nowhere conferred. .
. It
is . . . evident that there is neither more nor less in
this procedure than an attempt to provide for a judicial
determination . . . of the constitutional validity of
an act of Congress. Is such a determination within the
judicial power conferred by the Constitution, as the same
has been interpreted and defined in the authoritative decisions to which we have referred? We think it is not.
That judicial power, as we have seen, is the right to determine actual controversies arising between adverse litigants, duly instituted in courts of proper jurisdiction. . . . This attempt to obtain a judicial declaration of the validity of the act of Congress is not presented in a 'case' or 'controversy,' to which, under the
Constitution of the United States, the judicial power
alone extends. . . . The whole purpose of the law is
to determine the constitutional validity of this class of
legislation, in a suit not arising between parties concerning a property right necessarily involved in the decision
in question, but in a proceeding against the Government
in its sovereign capacity, and concerning which the
only judgment required is to settle the doubtful character of the legislation in question. Such judgment will
not conclude private parties, when actual litigation brings
to the court the question of the constitutionality of such
legislation. In a legal sense the judgment could not be
executed, and amounts in fact to no more than an expression of opinion upon the validity of the acts in question."
And in New Jersey v. Sargent, supra, it was held that
this Court could not entertain a bill for an injunction
against federal officers charged with the administration

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

of a federal statute, which did not show that any justiciable right of the State was being, or about to be,
affected prejudicially by the application of the statute,
but, in effect, sought merely to obtain an abstract judicial
declaration that, in certain features, the statute exceeded
the authority of Congress and encroached upon that of
the State.
It follows necessarily from these decisions that the
District Court, as a court of the United States established
under Article III of the Constitution, had no jurisdiction
to entertain the petition for the declaratory judgment.
Manifestly the Federal Conformity Statute, R. S. § 914
(U. S. Code, Tit. 28, § 724) conferred upon the court no
jurisdiction to proceed in accordance with the Declaratory
Judgment Law of Kentucky. This statute relates only
to "practice, pleadings, and forms and modes of procedure; " and neither purports to nor can extend the
jurisdiction of the district courts beyond the constitutional limitations. See Southern Pacific Co. v. Denton,
146 U. S. 202, 209; Mexican Central Ry. v. Pinkney, 149
U. S. 194, 206.
The plaintiffs in error also rely in argument here upon
§ 274a of the Judicial Code (U. S. Code, Tit. 28, § 397),
which provides that on finding that a suit at law should
have been brought in equity, or vice versa, the court shall
order any amendments to the pleadings which may be
necessary to conform to the proper practice, and that any
party may amend his pleadings so as to obviate the objection that his suit was not brought on the right side of
the court. This statute relates merely to a case in which
the objection is to the side of the court on which the suit
is brought, and not to the entire lack of jurisdiction in
the court. It is plain that it has no application here,
where the court was without jurisdiction to entertain the
petition for a declaratory judgment either upon the equity
or the law side.

WONG TAI v. UNITED STATES.
70

Counsel for Parties.

The judgment dismissing the petition for want of jurisdiction is accordingly
Affirmed.
WONG TAI v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 79.

Argued November 24, 1926.-Decided January 3, 1927.

1. The Court need not consider objections not contained in the assignment of errors but set out for the first time in the briefs filed
here. P. 78.
2. To comply with the Sixth Amendment, an indictment must be
sufficiently specific to advise the defendant of the nature and cause
of the accusation in order that he may meet it and prepare for
trial and, after judgment, be able to plead the record and judgment
in bar of a further prosecution for the same offense. P. 80.
3. In an indictment for conspiring to commit an offense-in which the
conspiracy is the gist of the crime-it is not necessary to allege
with technical precision all the elements essential to the commission
of the offense which is the object of the conspiracy, or to state
such object with the detail which would be required in an indictment for committing the substantive offense. P. 81.
4. An application for a bill of particulars in a criminal case is addressed to the sound discretion of the trial court. P. 82.
5. An exception is necessary for review of an alleged assigned error in
charging a jury. P. 83.
Affirmed.
ERROR to a judgment of the District Court in a prosecution for conspiracy to commit offenses against the United
States in violation of the Opium Act.

Mr. Marshall B. Woodworth, with whom Mr. Frank J.
Hennessy was on the brief, for the plaintiff in error.
Solicitor General Mitchell, with whom Mr. GardnerP.
Lloyd, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, and
Mr. Harry S. Ridgely, Attorney in the Department of
Justice, were on the brief, for the United States.

