PUB. UTIL. COMM. v. ATTLEBORO CO.

83

Statement of the Case.

77

v. United States, 209 U. S. 56, 84; New York Central
R. R. v. United States, 212 U. S. 481, 497.
4. Error is also assigned as to a statement made in the
charge to the jury in respect to the defendant's knowledge
that certain opium had been unlawfully imported; but it
suffices to say that this was not excepted to.
The judgment is
Affirmed.
PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION OF RHODE IS-

LAND

ET AL.

v. ATTLEBORO STEAM & ELECTRIC

COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF RHODE ISLAND.

No. 217. Argued October 11, 12, 1926.--Decided January 3, 1927.
Where a company engaged in the generation and sale of electricity in
one State enters into a time contract with another company in an
adjacent State, whereby current, to be paid for at an agreed rate,
is delivered by the first to the second company at the state line
and thence transmitted by the second company and sold to its
customers in the second State, the transaction, and the transmission
of the current, are interstate commerce, and the rate is not subject
afterwards to regulation by the first State, though this be deemed
necessary for the protection of the first company and its local con-

sumers. Pennsylvania Gas Co. v. Public Service Commission, 252
U. S. 23, distinguished. P. 86.
46 R. I. 496, affirmed.
CERTIORARI (269 U. S. 546) to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Rhode Island which, on appeal, disapproved an order of the Rhode Island Public Utilities Commission, increasing the rate chargeable to the Attleboro
Company by the Narragansett Electric Lighting Company-the moving party before the commission, and one
of the petitioners here-for electricity furnished at the
Rhode Island and Massachusetts line.

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

Messrs. R. W. Boyden and Arthur M. Allen, with whom
Messrs. Charles P. Sisson and Frank D. Comerford were
on the brief, for the petitioners.
Mr. Robert G. Dodge, with whom Messrs. Archibald C.
Matteson and Harold S. Davis were on the brief, for the
respondent.
MR. JUSTICE SANFORD delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This case involves the constitutional validity of an
order of the Public Utilities Commission of Rhode Island
putting into effect a schedule of prices applying to the
sale of electric current in interstate commerce.
The Narragansett Electric Lighting Company is a
Rhode Island corporation engaged in manufacturing
electric current at its generating plant in the city of Providence and selling such current generally for light, heat
and power. The Attleboro Steam & Electric Company is
a Massachusetts corporation engaged in supplying electric
current for public and private use in the city of Attleboro
and its vicinity in that State.
In 1917, these companies entered into a contract by
which the Narragansett Company agreed to sell, and the
Attleboro Company to buy, for a period of twenty years,
all the electricity required by the Attleboro Company for
its own use and for sale in the city of Attleboro and the
adjacent territory, at a specified basic rate; the current
to be delivered by the Narragansett Company at the
State line between Rhode Island and Massachusetts and
carried over connecting transmission lines to the station
of the Attleboro Company in Massachusetts, where it was
to be metered. The Narragansett Company filed with
the Public Utilities Commission of Rhode Island a schedule setting out the rate and general terms of the contract
and was authorized by the Commission to grant the

PUB. UTIL. COMM. v. ATTLEBORO CO.
83

Opinion of the Court.

Attleboro Company the special rate therein shown; and
the two companies then entered upon the performance
of the contract. Current was thereafter supplied in accordance with its terms; and the generating plant of the
Attleboro Company was dismantled.
In 1924 the Narragansett Company-having previously
made an unsuccessful attempt to obtain an increase of the
special rate to the Attleboro Company-filed with the
Rhode Island Commission a new schedule, purporting
to cancel the original schedule and establish an increased
rate for electric current supplied, in specified minimum
quantities, to electric lighting companies for their own
use or sale to their customers and delivered either in
Rhode Island or at the State line. The Attleboro Company was in fact the only customer of the Narragansett
Company to which this new schedule would apply.2
The Commission thereupon instituted an investigation
as to the contract rate and the proposed rate. After
a hearing at which both companies were represented,
the Commission found that, owing principally to the increased cost of generating electricity, the Narragansett
Company in rendering service to the Attleboro Company
was suffering an operating loss, without any return on
the investment devoted to such service, while the rates to
'In 1921 the Commission had authorized the Narragansett Com-

pany to put into effect a schedule increasing the special rate to the
Attleboro Company; but its enforcement had been enjoined on the
ground of the lack of an essential finding by the Commission. Attleboro Steam & E. Co. v. Narragansett E. Light Co. (D. C.), 295
Fed. 895.
' No other electric lighting company supplied by the Narragansett
Company required, either then or prospectively, the quantity of current necessary to make the proposed rate applicable. The Commission stated that the Attleboro Company was the only customer of
the Narragansett Company affected by the proposed rate; and the
brief for the petitioners states that the Attleboro Company was the
only customer then falling within the schedule class.

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

its other customers yielded a fair return; that the contract
rate was unreasonable and a continuance of service to the
Attleboro Company under it would be detrimental to the
general public welfare and prevent the Narragansett
Company from performing its full duty to its other customers;' and that the proposed rate was reasonable and
would yield a fair return, and no more, for the service
to the Attleboro Company. And the Commission thereupon made an order putting into effect the rate contained
in the new schedule.
From this order the Attleboro Company prosecuted an
appeal to the Supreme Court of Rhode Island whichconsidering only one of the various objections urgedheld, on the authority of Missouri v. Kansas Gas Co., 265
U. S. 298, that the order of the Commission imposed a
direct burden on interstate commerce and was invalid
because of conflict with the commerce clause of the Constitution; and entered a decree reversing the order and
directing that the rate investigation be dismissed. 46
R. I. 496.
It is conceded, rightly, that the sale of electric current
by the Narragansett Company to the Attleboro Company
is a transaction in interstate commerce, notwithstanding
the fact that the current is delivered at the State line.
The transmission of electric current from one State to
another, like that of gas, is interstate commerce, Coal &
Coke Co. v. Pub. Serv. Comm., 84 W. Va. 662, 669, and
its essential character is not affected by a passing of custody and title at the state boundary, not arresting the
continuous transmission to the intended destination.
Peoples' Gas Co. v. Pub. Serv. Comm'n, 270 U. S. 550,
554.
'The evidence showed that in 1923 the Narragansett Company had
71,554 customers, and that about one thirty-fifth of the current which
it produced went to the Attleboro Company.

PUB. UTIL. COMM. v. ATTLEBORO CO.
83

87

Opinion of the Court.

The petitioners contend, however, that the Rhode Island
Commission cannot effectively exercise its power to regulate the rates for electricity furnished by the Narragansett
Company to local consumers, without also regulating the
rates for the other service which it furnishes; that if the
Narragansett Company continues to furnish electricity to
Attleboro Company at a loss this will tend to increase the
burden on the local consumers and impair the ability of
the Narragansett Company to give them good service at
reasonable prices; and that, therefore, the order of the
Commission prescribing a reasonable rate for the interstate service to the Attleboro Company should be sustained as being essentially a local regulation, necessary
to the protection of matters of local interest, and affecting
interstate commerce only indirectly and incidentally. In
support of this contention, they rely chiefly upon Pennsylvania Gas Co. v. Pub. Serv. Com., 252 U. S. 23; and
the controlling question presented is whether the present
case comes within the rule of the Pennsylvania.Gas Co.
case or that of the Kansas Gas Co. case upon which the
Attleboro- Company relies.
In the PennsylvaniaGas Co. case, the Company transmitted natural gas by a main pipe line from the source of
sApply in Pennsylvania to a point of distribution in a
city in New York, which it there subdivided and sold at
retail to local consumers supplied from the main by pipes
laid through the streets of the city. In holding that the
New York Public Service Commission might regulate the
rate charged to these consumers, the court said that while
a State may not "directly" regulate or burden interstate
commerce, it may in some instances, until the subjectmatter is regulated by Congress, pass laws "indirectly"
affecting such commerce, when needed to protect or regulate matters of local interest; that the thing which the
New York Commission had undertaken to regulate, while
part of an interstate transmission, was "local in its na-

88

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

ture," pertaining to the furnishing of gas to local consumers, and the service rendered to them was " essentially
local," being similar to that of a local plant furnishing
gas to consumers in a city; and that such "local service"
was not of the character which required general and
uniform regulation of rates by congressional action, even
if the local rates might "affect" the interstate business
of the Company.
In the Kansas Gas Co. case, the Company, whose business was principally interstate, transported natural gas
by continuous pipe lines from wells in Oklahoma and
Kansas into Missouri, and there sold and delivered it to
distributing companies, which then sold and delivered it
to local consumers. In holding that the rate which the
Company charged for the gas sold to the distributing companies--those at which these companies sold to the local
consumers not being involved-was not subject to regulation by the Public Utilities Commission of Missouri,
the court said that, while in the absence of congressional
action a State may generally enact laws of internal police,
although they have an indirect effect upon interstate
commerce, "the commerce clause of the Constitution, of
its own force, restrains the States from imposing direct
burdens upon interstate commerce," and a state enaetment imposing such a " direct burden" must fall, being
a direct restraint of that which in the absence of Federal
regulation should be free, Minnesota Rate Cases, 230
U. S. 352, 396; that the sale and delivery to the distributing companies was "an inseparable part of a transaction in interstate commerce-not local but essentially
national in character-and enforcement of a selling price
in such a transaction places a direct burden upon such
commerce inconsistent with that freedom of interstate
trade which it was the purpose of the commerce clause
to secure and preserve; " that in the Pennsylvania Gas
Co. case, the decision rested on the ground that the serv-

PUB. UTIL. COMM. v. ATTLEBORO CO.
83

89

Opinion of the Court.

ice to the consumers for which the regulated charge was
made, was "essentially local," and the things done were
after the business in its essentially national aspect had
come to an end-the supplying of local consumers being
"a local business," even though the gas be brought from
another State, in which the local interest is paramount
and the interference with interstate commerce, if any,
indirect and of minor importance; but that in the sale of
gas in wholesale quantities, not to consumers, but to distributing companies for resale to consumers, where the
transportation, sale and delivery constitutes an unbroken
chain, fundamentally interstate from beginning to end,
"the paramount interest is not local but national, admitting of and requiring uniformity of regulation," which,
"even though it be the uniformity of governmental nonaction, may be highly necessary to preserve equality of
opportunity and treatment among the various communities and States concerned."
It is clear that the present case is controlled by the
Kansas Gas Co. case. The order of the Rhode Island
Commission is not, as in the Pennsylvania Gas Co. case,
a regulation of the rates charged to local consumers, having merely an incidental effect upon interstate commerce,
but is a regulation of the rates charged by the Narragansett Company for the interstate service to the Attleboro
Company, which places a direct burden upon interstate
commerce. Being the imposition of a direct burden upon
interstate commerce, from which the State is restrained
by the force of the Commerce Clause, it must necessarily
fall, regardless of its purpose. Shafer v. Farmers Grain
Co., 268 U. S. 189, 199; Real Silk Mills v. Portland,
268 U. S. 325, 336; Di Santo v. Pennsylvania, ante, p. 34.
It is immaterial that the Narragansett Company is a
Rhode Island corporation subject to regulation by the
Commission in its local business, or that Rhode Island is
the State from which the electric current is transmitted

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U.S.

in interstate commerce, and not that in which it is received, as in the Kansas Gas Co. case. The forwarding
state obviously has no more authority than the receiving
State to place a direct burden upon interstate commerce.
Pennsylvania v. West Virginia, 262 U. S. 553, 596. Nor
is it material that the general business of the Narragansett Company appears to be chiefly local, while in the
Kansas Gas Ca. case the Company was principally engaged in interstate business. The test of the validity of
a state regulation is not the character of the general business of the company, but whether the particular business
which is regulated is essentially local or national in character; and if the regulation places a direct burden upon
its interstate business it is none the less beyond the power
of the State because this may be the smaller part of its
general business. Furthermore, if Rhode Island could
place a direct burden upon the interstate business of the
Narragansett Company because this would result in indirect benefit to the customers of the Narragansett Company in Rhode Island, Massachusetts could, by parity of
reasoning, reduce the rates on such interstate business in
order to benefit the customers of the Attleboro Company
in that State, who would have, in the aggregate, an interest in the interstate rate correlative to that of the customers of the Narragansett Company in Rhode Island.
Plainly, however, the paramount interest in the interstate
business carried on between the two companies is not local
to either State, but is essentially national in character.
The rate is therefore not subject to regulation by either of
the two States in the guise of protection to their respective
local interests; but, if such regulation is required it can
only be attained by the exercise of the power vested in
Congress. See Covington Bridge Co. v. Kentucky, 154
U. S. 204, 220; Hanley v. Kansas City S. Ry. Co., 187
U. S. 617, 620.
The decree is accordingly
Affirmed.

PUB. UTIL. COMM. v. ATTLEBORO CO.
83

91

Brandeis, J., dissenting.

M. JumrIcE BRANDEIS, dissenting.
The business of the Narragansett Company is an intrastate one. The only electricity sold for use without the
State is that agreed to be delivered to the Attleboro Company. That company takes less than 3 per cent. of the
electricity produced and manufactured by the Narragansett, which has over 70,000 customers in Rhode Island.
The problem is essentially local in character. The Commission found as a fact that continuance of the service to
the Attleboro Company at the existing rate would prevent
the Narragansett from performing its full duty towards
its other customers and would be detrimental to the general public welfare. It issued the order specifically to
prevent unjust discrimination and to prevent unjust increase in the price to other customers. The Narragansett,
a public service corporation of Rhode Island, is subject to
regulation by that State. The order complained of is
clearly valid as an exercise of the police power, unless it
violates the Commerce Clause.
The power of the State to regulate the selling price
of electricity produced and distributed by it within the
State and to prevent discrimination is not affected by the
fact that the supply is furnished under a long-term contract. Union Dry Goods Co. v. Georgia Public Service
Corporation,248 U. S. 372. If the Commission lacks the
power exercised, it is solely because the electricity is delivered for use in another State. That fact makes the
transaction interstate commerce, and Congress has power
to legislate on the subject. It has not done so, nor has
it legislated on any allied subject, so there can be no contention that it has occupied the field. Nor is this a case
in which it can be said that the silence of Congress is a
command that the Rhodo Island utility shall remain
free from the public regulation-that it shall be free to
discriminate against the citizens of the State by which
it was incorporated and in which it does business. That

92

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Brandeis, J., dissenting.

273 U.S.

State may not, of course, obstruct or directly burden
interstate commerce. But to prevent discrimination in
the price of electricity wherever used does not obstruct
or place a direct burden upon interstate commerce.
Such regulation or action is unlike the burden imposed
where a transportation rate is fixed. Wabash, St. Louis
& Pacific R. R. Co. v. Illinois, 118 U. S. 557, or
where property moving in interstate commerce is taxed.
Champlain Realty Co. v. Brattleboro,260 U. S. 366. The
burden resulting from the order here in question resembles
more nearly that increase in the cost of an article produced and to be delivered which arises by reason of higher
taxes laid upon plant, operations or profits, Old Dominion
S. S. Co. v. Virginia, 198 U. S.299, 305; American Mfg.
Co. v. St. Louis, 250 U. S.459, or which arises by reason
of expenditures required under police regulations. Pittsburgh & Southern Coal Co. v. Louisiana, 156 U. S.590;
Sligh v. Kirkwood, 237 U. S.52; Merchants Exchange v.
Missouri, 248 U. S. 365, 368. It is like the regulation
sustained in PennsylvaniaGas Co.v. Public Service Commission, 252 U. S. 23, where an order of the New York
Public Service Commission fixed the rates at which gas
piped from without the State and delivered directly to
the consumers might be sold.
The case at bar seems to me distinguishable from others
in which the state regulation has been held precluded by
the Commerce Clause. In Missouri v. Kansas Natural
Gas Co., 265 U. S.298, this Court held void a regulation
which fixed the rates at which gas piped from without
the State and delivered to distributing companies could
be sold to the latter. The Pennsylvania Gas Co. case
was distinguished in that there "the things done were
local. . . . The business of supplying on demand,
local consumers is a local business, even though the gas
be brought from another State and drawn directly from
interstate mains. . . . In such case the local interest

OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS.
83

Decree.

is paramount. . . . But here the sale of gas is in
wholesale quantities, not to consumers, but to distributing companies for resale to consumers in numerous cities
in different states. The paramount interest is
not local but national . . ." (p. 309). It was there
emphasized that the "business of the Supply Company,
with an exception not important here, [was] wholly interstate." (p. 306.) In Shafer v. Farmers Grain Co., 268
U. S. 189, 192, where a North Dakota regulation was held
invalid, "about 90 per cent. [of the wheat was] sold
within the state to buyers who purchase for shipment,
and ship, to terminal markets outside the state" and the
"price paid at the country elevators rises and falls with
the price at the terminal markets." In these two cases
the burden was deemed a direct one because the businesses were essentially interstate. In Pennsylvania v.
West Virginia, 262 U. S. 553, the state regulation was
held void as discriminating against interstate commerce.
In my opinion the judgment below should be reversed.
OKLAHOMA v. TEXAS, UNITED STATES,
INTERVENER.
No. 6, Original. Decree entered January 3, 1927.
Decree declaring part of the boundary between Texas and Oklahoma;
appointing and instructing a commissioner to survey and mark it,
subject to approval of the Court; with provisions as to costs.
Announced by MR. JUSTICE SANFORD.

This cause having been heard and submitted under the
counterclaim of the State of Texas, and the Court having
considered the same and announced its conclusions in an
opinion delivered October 11, 1926 [272 U. S. 21], it is
ordered, adjudged and decreed as follows:
1. The boundary between the State of Texas and the
State of Oklahoma constituting the eastern boundary of

