OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
273 IT. S.

Statement of the Case.

Compare Burton v. United States, 202 U. S. 344, 377;
Gavieres v. United States, 220 U. S. 338; Morgan v. Devine, 237 U. S. 632.
The remaining objections are unsubstantial and do not
require discussion.
Affirmed.
FLORIDA
No. -,

v. MELLON, SECRETARY
TREASURY, ET AL.

Original.

OF

THE

Rule to show cause argued November 23, 1926.Rule discharged January 3, 1927.

1. To come within the original jurisdiction of this Court, a suit by a
State must be for redress of a wrong, or enforcement of a right,

susceptible of judicial redress or enforcement. P. 16.
2. The federal inheritance tax law is constitutional, and must prevail
over any conflicting provisions of state laws or constitutions. P. 17.
3. The constitutional requirement of uniformity in excise taxation
(Art. I, § 8, cl. 1) is satisfied when by the provisions of a tax law
the rule of liability under it is the same in all parts of the United
States. P. 17.
4. The fact that the provisions of the federal act allowing deduction
of State inheritance taxes in computing the federal tax can not be
availed of in Florida, since that State by her constitution is forbidden to tax inheritance, does not sustain an allegation that the
federal tax will directly injure her revenue by inducing the withdrawal of property from the State. P. 17.
5. A State can not, as parens patriae, represent her citizens in a suit
to protect them from unconstitutional inequalities alleged to result
from a federal tax law. P. 18.
Leave to file bill denied.

UPoN a rule to show cause why the petition of the
State of Florida to file a bill of complaint in this Court
should not be granted. The proposed bill sought to
enjoin the Secretary of the Treasury and the Commissioner of Internal Revenue from attempting to collect
federal inheritance taxes in Florida.

FLORIDA v. MELLON.
12

Argument for Complainant.

Messrs. John B. Johnson, Attorney General of Florida,
and Peter 0. Knight, with whom Mr. James F. Glen was
on the brief, for the complainant.
The Constitution never contemplated that Congress
could pass an excise tax law which would depend upon
affirmative action by the several States to make it uniform
in force and effect. It requires that an excise tax law,
within itself, shall be uniform throughout the United
States.
The Estate Tax provision of the Revenue Act of 1926
was passed to coerce States into adopting estate or inheritance tax laws. If Congress could rebate 80 per centum,
it could just as legally rebate 100 per centum of the tax,
and the State not imposing a tax of this kind would be the
only State paying such a tax to the Federal Government.
Each State is supposed to raise revenue from the
sources and in the manner most advantageous to itself,
its citizens and to its business. These necessary taxes are
bound to come from the earnings of its citizens in some
form or other. One State may deem it to its advantage
to raise a large part of this revenue from death duties,
thus relieving other classes of its property and business
from the burden. Another may deem it to its advantage
to raise its revenues from other sources than death duties.
Yet each State imposes its burden on the earning power
of its citizens. Florida raises her revenue from other
sources than death duties and income taxes. A majority
of the States have combined and intend to force Florida
to pay death duties, or estate taxes, for the support of
the United States Government, when these same death
duties or estate taxes paid by other States go to pay the
expenses of state governments. The Constitution never
contemplated such a condition. The Federal Government
has no power by taxation or otherwise to control the internal affairs of the State in any matter not in conflict with
the powers delegated to the United States, or inhibited to
the State, by the Constitution. Texas v. White, 7 Wall.

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Counsel for Defendant.

273 U.S.

700. The Estate Tax provision was not passed for the
purpose of raising federal revenue. It was directed primarily at the State of Florida. It was not passed to
obtain revenue from the tax-paying estates in Florida,
but to nullify a constitutional provision of the State.
Pollock v. Farmers Loan & Trust Co., 157 U. S. 429.
Section 3224 Rev. Stat., is intended to be applicable
only to individual controversies relating to specific taxes,
and not to taxes sought to be imposed upon a large class
under color of an unconstitutional statute. It approaches
reductio ad absurdum to suggest that there must be universal submission throughout the United States to an
unconstitutional statute, followed by tens of thousands of
claims or suits for the recovery of taxes paid under it.
Hill v. Wallace, 259 U. S. 44; Graham v. Dupont, 262
U. S. 234.
In the present case we have an Act of Congress
operative in Florida, against the will of the State and its
citizens, to which obedience must be yielded, if it is
constitutional. That Act directly seeks and requires the
removal from the State of property to the extent of several millions of dollars per annum. Its removal will
diminish the revenues of the State. The Act directly
discriminates in its effect against the State of Florida, as
compared with other States. Those considerations, and
others, particularly the fact that it cannot be denied
that the represefitatives of Florida decedents questioning
the constitutionality of the Act will have a justiciable
controversy, distinguish this case from Massachusetts v.
Mellon, 262 U. S. 447, and bring it within the category
of Missouri v. Holland, 252 U. S. 416.
Solicitor General Mitchell, with whom Mr. Robert P.
Reeder, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, was
on the brief, for the defendant.

FLORIDA v. MELLON,
12

Opinion of the Court..

Messrs. Edward A. Harriman and Thomas B. Adams
filed briefs as amici curiae by special leave of Court.
Mr. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The State of Florida seeks leave to file a bill of complaint against the defendants, citizens of other states, to
enjoin them from attempting to collect in Florida inheritance taxes imposed by § 301 of the Revenue Act of 1926,
c. 27, 44 Stat. 9, 69-70. A rule upon the defendants to
show cause why such leave should not be granted was
issued and answered.
The complaint alleges that under the constitution of
Florida no tax on inheritances can be levied by the state
or under its authority; that by § 301 of the act referred to
certain graduated taxes are imposed on the estates of
decedents subject to the following provision:
"The tax imposed by this section shall be credited with
the amount of any estate, inheritance, legacy, or succession taxes actually paid to any State or Territory or the
District of Columbia, in respect of any property included
in the gross estate. The credit allowed by this subdivision
shall not exceed 80 per centum of the tax imposed by this
section, and shall include only such taxes as were actually
paid and credit therefor claimed within three years after
the filing of the return required by section 304."
It is further alleged that the defendants are officers of
the United States and are seeking to enforce the provisions of § 301; that citizens of Florida have died since
the act was passed, leaving estates subject to taxation
under the terms of that section; that defendants have
required and are requiring the legal representatives of
such decedents to make returns under that section, and
unless such action is restrained, it will result in the withdrawal from Florida of several million dollars per annum
and thus diminish the revenues of the state derived

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 IT.S.

largely from taxation of property therein; that the state
is directly interested in the matter because it raises by
taxation a sufficient amount of revenue to pay the expenses of the state government otherwise than by hnposing inheritance taxes or taxes on incomes; and that
the provisions of the said section constitute an invasion
of the sovereign rights of the state and a direct effort on
the part of Congress to coerce the state into imposing an
inheritance tax and to penalize it and its property and
citizens for the failure to do so. It is further alleged that
the state is directly interested in preventing the unlawful
discrimination against its citizens which is effected by
§ 301 and in protecting them against the risk of prosecution for failure to comply with the enforcement provisions
of the act; that the several states, except Florida, Alabama, and Nevada, levy inheritance taxes, but by reason
of the provisions of its constitution Florida cannot place
its citizens on an equality with those of the other states
in respect of the tax in question, and [therefore] the tax
is not uniform throughout the United States as required
by § 8 of Article I of the federal Constitution.
The allegations of the bill suggest two possible grounds
upon which the asserted right of complainant to invoke
the jurisdiction of this court may be supported: (a) that
the state is directly injured because the imposition of the
federal tax, in the absence of a state tax which may be
credited, will cause the withdrawal of property from the
state with the consequent loss to the state of subjects of
taxation; and (b) that the citizens of the state are injured
in such a way that the state may sue in their behalf as
parens patriae. Neither ground is tenable.
While judicial relief sometimes may be granted to a
quasi-sovereign state under circumstances which would
not justify relief if the suit were between private parties,
Georgia v. Tennessee Copper Co., 206 U. S. 230, 237,
nevertheless, it must appear that the state has suffered

FLORIDA v. MELLON.
12

Opinion of the Court.

a wrong furnishing ground for judicial redress or is asserting a right susceptible of judicial enforcement. The mere
fact that a state is the plaintiff is not enough. Wisconsin
v. PelicanIns. Co., 127 U. S. 265, 287; Oklahoma v. A., T.
& Santa Fe Ry., 220 U. S. 277, 286, 289.
The act assailed was passed by Congress in pursuance
of its power to lay and collect taxes, and, following the
decision of this court in respect of the preceding act of
1916, New York Trust Co. v. Eisner, 256 U. S. 345, must
be held to be constitutional. If the act interferes with
the exercise by the state of its full powers of taxation or
has the effect of removing property from its reach which
otherwise would be within it, that is a contingency which
affords no ground for judicial relief. The act is a law of
the United States made in pursuance of the Constitution
and, therefore, the supreme law of the land, the constitution or laws of the states to the contrary notwithstanding.
Whenever the constitutional powers of the federal government and those of the state come into conflict, the
latter must yield. Ex parte Virginia, 100 U. S. 339, 346;
Brown v. Walker, 161 U. S. 591, 606; Cummings v. Chicago, 188 U. S. 410, 428; Lane County v. Oregon, 7
Wall. 71, 77.
The contention that the federal tax is not uniform because other states impose inheritance taxes while Florida
does not, is without merit. Congress cannot accommodate its legislation to the conflicting or dissimilar laws of
the several states nor control the diverse conditions to be
found in the various states which necessarily work unlike
results from the enforcement of the same tax. All that the
Constitution (Art. I, § 8, cl. 1) requires is that the law
shall be uniform in the sense that by its provisions the
rule of liability shall be the same in all parts of the United
States.
The claim of immediate injury to the state rests upon
the allegation that the act will have the result of inducing
potential tax-payers to withdraw property from the state,
42847*-27--2

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Syllabus.

273 IT.S.

thereby diminishing the subjects upon which the state
power of taxation may operate. The averment to that
effect, however, affords no basis for relief, because, not
only is the state's right of taxation subordinate to that of
the general government, but the anticipated result is
purely speculative, and, at most, only remote and indirect.
Minnesota v. Northern Securities Co., 194 U. S. 48, 68-70.
If, as alleged, the supposed withdrawal of property will
diminish the revenues of the state, non constat that the
deficiency cannot readily be made up by an increased rate
of taxation. Plainly, there is no substance in the contention that the state has sustained, or is immediately in
danger of sustaining, any direct injury as the result of the
enforcement of the act in question. See In re Ayers, 123
U. S. 443, 496; Massachusettsv. Mellon, 262 U. S. 447,488.
Nor can the suit be maintained by the state because of
any injury to its citizens. They are also citizens of the
United States and subject to its laws. In respect of their
relations with the federal government "it is the United
States, and not the State, which represents them as parens
patriae, when such representation becomes appropriate;
and to the former, and not to the latter, they must look
for such protective measures as flow from that status."
Massachusettsv. Mellon, supra,pp. 485-486.
It follows that leave to file the bill of complaint must
be denied.
Rule discharged and leave denied.
MYERS v. HURLEY MOTOR COMPANY.
CERTIFICATE FROM THE COURT OF APPEALS OF THEI DISTRICT
OF COLUMBIA.

No. 65. Argued December 9, 1926.-Decided January 3, 1927.
1. The fact that a contract made in infancy was induced by the
infant's fraudulent misrepresentation of his age, does not estop him
from disaffirming the contract and maintaining his action to recover
money paid under it. Sims v. Everhardt, 102 U. S. 300. P. 22.

