WONG TAI v. UNITED STATES.
70

Counsel for Parties.

The judgment dismissing the petition for want of jurisdiction is accordingly
Affirmed.
WONG TAI v. UNITED STATES.
ERROR TO THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
NORTHERN DISTRICT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 79.

Argued November 24, 1926.-Decided January 3, 1927.

1. The Court need not consider objections not contained in the assignment of errors but set out for the first time in the briefs filed
here. P. 78.
2. To comply with the Sixth Amendment, an indictment must be
sufficiently specific to advise the defendant of the nature and cause
of the accusation in order that he may meet it and prepare for
trial and, after judgment, be able to plead the record and judgment
in bar of a further prosecution for the same offense. P. 80.
3. In an indictment for conspiring to commit an offense-in which the
conspiracy is the gist of the crime-it is not necessary to allege
with technical precision all the elements essential to the commission
of the offense which is the object of the conspiracy, or to state
such object with the detail which would be required in an indictment for committing the substantive offense. P. 81.
4. An application for a bill of particulars in a criminal case is addressed to the sound discretion of the trial court. P. 82.
5. An exception is necessary for review of an alleged assigned error in
charging a jury. P. 83.
Affirmed.
ERROR to a judgment of the District Court in a prosecution for conspiracy to commit offenses against the United
States in violation of the Opium Act.

Mr. Marshall B. Woodworth, with whom Mr. Frank J.
Hennessy was on the brief, for the plaintiff in error.
Solicitor General Mitchell, with whom Mr. GardnerP.
Lloyd, Special Assistant to the Attorney General, and
Mr. Harry S. Ridgely, Attorney in the Department of
Justice, were on the brief, for the United States.

78

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE SANFORD delivered the opinion of the

Court.
The plaintiff in error was indicted in the Federal District Court for Northern California under ยง 37 of the
Criminal Code,' for conspiring to commit offenses against
the United States in violation of the Opium Act of 1909,
as amended in 1914 and 1922.2 He was tried and convicted; and thereupon brought the case here by a direct
writ of error under ยง 238 of the Judicial Code, before the
amendment made by the Jurisdictional Act of 1925 became effective, as one involving the application of the
Constitution and in which the constitutionality of a law
of the United States was drawn in question.
The errors assigned and specified here are that the
Opium Act, as amended, is repugnant to the due process
and self-incrimination clauses of the Fifth Amendment;
that the indictment is invalid under the Sixth Amendment; and that the court erred in overruling a demurrer
to the indictment, denying a motion for a bill of particulars and a motion in arrest of judgment, and in its charge
to the jury.
1. There was no challenge to the constitutionality of
the Opium Act in the District Court. This question was
not presented in that court and was neither considered
nor determined by it. The objections to the constitutionality of the Act which were set out in the assignment of
errors are fully answered in Yee Hem v. United States,
268 U. S. 178, decided after this writ of error had been
'This section provides that: "If two or more persons conspire ...
to commit any offense against the United States ...
and one or
more of such parties do any act to effect the object of the conspiracy,
each of the parties to such conspiracy" shall be fined, or imprisoned,

or both.
"Act of February 9, 1909, c. 100, 35 Stat. 614, as amended by the
Acts of January 17, 1914, c. 9, 38 Stat. 275, and May 26, 1922, c. 202,
42 Stat. 596.

WONG TAI v. UNITED STATES.
77

Opinion of the Court.

sued out; and the additional objections set forth for the
first time in the brief for the defendant in this Court, do
not require consideration here.
2. The case is, however, otherwise brought here under
the writ of error, by reason of a challenge which the defendant interposed to the validity of the indictment on
the ground that it did not inform him of the "nature and
cause of the accusation" as required by the Sixth Amendment.
The Opium Act, as amended, provides, in ยง 2(c), that
if any person "receives, conceals, buys, sells, or in any
manner facilitates the transportation, concealment, or
sale" of any narcotic drug "after being imported" into
the United States, "knowing the same to have been imported contrary to law," he shall upon conviction be fined
or imprisoned. 42 Stat. 596.
The indictment, which was returned in September,
1924, charged that on or about September 10, 1922, the
exact date being to the grand jurors unknown, the defendant, being in the City and County of San Francisco, within the jurisdiction of the court, conspired to commit the
acts made offenses by the Opium Act, as amended, that
is to say, that at the time and place aforesaid, he knowingly and feloniously conspired and agreed with one Ben
Drew and divers other persons to the grand jurors unknown, to "knowingly and feloniously receive, conceal,
buy, sell and facilitate the transportation and concealment after importation of certain narcotic drugs, to-wit,
smoking opium, the said defendant well knowing the said
drugs to have been imported into the United States and
into the jurisdiction of this Court contrary to law "; that
this conspiracy continued throughout all the times after
September, 1922, mentioned in the indictment and particularly at the time of the commission of each of the
overt acts thereinafter set forth; and that in furtherance
of this conspiracy and to effect its object, the defendant,

80

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 T.S.

in the City and County of San Francisco received, bought,
sold and facilitated the transportation after importation
of three small sacks containing tins of opium which
arrived on the Steamer President Pierce on or about
February 24, 1923, without the knowledge and consent
of the customs officers in charge of the port at San Francisco, and also, to effect the same object, and in the same
place, received, bought, etc., after importation other sacks
containing tins of opium, which likewise arrived without the knowledge and consent of said customs officers,
namely, five sacks which arrived on the Steamer Nanking
on or about May 10, 1923, three sacks which arrived on
the Steamer President Wilson on or about May 25, 1923,
five sacks which arrived on the Steamer Taiyo Maru on
or about May 27, 1923, five sacks which arrived on the
Steamer President Taft on or about June 29, 1923, two
sacks which arrived on the Steamer President Lincoln,
on or about August 19, 1923, and one sack which arrived
on the Steamer President Cleveland on or about February
3, 1924, the exact number of tins of opium in these several
sacks and the exact dates of their arrival being unknown
to the grand jurors.
The defendant demurred to the indictment on the
ground that its allegations as to the conspiracy and overt
acts were so vague, indefinite and uncertain that they did
not inform him of the nature and cause of the accusation
as required by the Sixth Amendment, and enable him to
make proper defense or plead his jeopardy in bar of a
later prosecution for the same offense. This demurrer
and a subsequent motion made in arrest of judgment on
the same grounds, were both overruled by the District
Court.
While it is essential to the validity of an indictment
under the Federal Constitution and laws that it shall
advise the defendant of the nature and cause of the accusation in order that he may meet it and prepare for

WONG TAI v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

77

trial and, after judgment, be able to plead the record and
judgment in bar of a further prosecution for the same
offense, Bartell v. United States, 227 U. S. 427, 431, we
find in the present indictment no lack of compliance with
this requirement. It charged the defendant, with definiteness and certainty and reasonable particularity as to time
and place, with conspiring with a named person and others
to commit certain specified offenses in violation of the
Opium Act; and further charged him, in like manner, with
doing various specified acts to effect the object of the conspiracy. It is well settled that in an indictment for conspiring to commit an offense-in which the conspiracy is
the gist of the crime-it is not necessary to allege with
technical precision all the elements essential to the commission of the offense which is the object of the conspiracy, Williamson v. United States, 207 U. S. 425, 447,
or to state such object with the detail which would be
required in an indictment for committing the substantive
offense, Thornton v. United States, 271 U. S. 414, 423;
Jelke v. United States (C. C. A.), 255 Fed. 264, 275; Anderson v. United States (C. C. A.), 260 Fed. 557, 558;
Wolf v. United States (C. C. A.), 283 Fed. 885, 886; Goldberg v. United States (C. C. A.), 277 Fed. 211, 213. In
charging such a conspiracy "certainty to a common intent, sufficient to identify the offense which the defendants conspired to commit, is all that is necessary."
Williamson v. United States, supra, 447; Goldberg v.
United States, supra, 213. That this requirement was
complied with in the present indictment is clear. In
Keck v. United States, 172 U. S. 434, upon which the defendant relies, the indictment was not, as here, for conspiring to commit offenses, but for committing the substantive offenses. And in Hartson v. United States (C.
C. A.), 14 F. (2d) 561, upon which he also relies, a count
charging a single conspiracy to commit several offenses,
42847*-27--

82

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

was held sufficient, although another count charging in
like manner the commission of one of these substantive
offenses, was held insufficient. In the present case we
think that the allegations of the indictment, both in respect to the conspiracy and the overt acts, sufficiently advised the defendant of the nature and cause of the accusation, and with the requisite particularity. We conclude
that there was no invalidity in the indictment under the
Sixth Amendment, and that both the demurrer and the
motion in arrest of judgment were properly overruled.
3. The defendant also made a motion, supported by
affidavit, for a detailed bill of particulars, setting forth
with particularity the specific facts in reference to the
several overt acts alleged in the indictment, with various
specifications as to times, places, names of persons, quantities, prices, containers, buildings, agencies, instrumentalities, etc., and the manner in which and the specific
circumstances under which they were committed. This
motion-which in effect sought a complete discovery of
the Government's case in reference to the overt acts-was
denied on the ground that the indictment was sufficiently
definite in view of the unknown matters involved and
the motion called "for too much details of evidence."
The application for the bill of particulars was one addressed to the sound discretion of the court, and, there
being no abuse of this discretion, its action thereon should
not be disturbed. See Rosen v. United States, 161 U. S.
29, 40; Dunlop v. United States, 165 U. S. 486, 491;
Knauer v. United States (C. C. A.), 237 Fed. 8, 13;
Horowitz v. United States (C. C. A.), 262 Fed. 48, 49;
Savage v. United States (C. C. A.), 270 Fed. 14, 18. And
there is nothing in the record indicating that the defendant was taken by surprise in the progress of the trial, or
that his substantial rights were prejudiced in any way by
the refusal to require the bill of particulars. See Connors
v. United States, 158 U. S. 408, 411; Armour Packing Co.

PUB. UTIL. COMM. v. ATTLEBORO CO.

83

Statement of the Case.

77

v. United States, 209 U. S. 56, 84; New York Central
R. R. v. United States, 212 U. S. 481, 497.
4. Error is also assigned as to a statement made in the
charge to the jury in respect to the defendant's knowledge
that certain opium had been unlawfully imported; but it
suffices to say that this was not excepted to.
The judgment is
Affirmed.
PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSION OF RHODE IS-

LAND

ET AL.

v. ATTLEBORO STEAM & ELECTRIC

COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF RHODE ISLAND.

No. 217. Argued October 11, 12, 1926.--Decided January 3, 1927.
Where a company engaged in the generation and sale of electricity in
one State enters into a time contract with another company in an
adjacent State, whereby current, to be paid for at an agreed rate,
is delivered by the first to the second company at the state line
and thence transmitted by the second company and sold to its
customers in the second State, the transaction, and the transmission
of the current, are interstate commerce, and the rate is not subject
afterwards to regulation by the first State, though this be deemed
necessary for the protection of the first company and its local con-

sumers. Pennsylvania Gas Co. v. Public Service Commission, 252
U. S. 23, distinguished. P. 86.
46 R. I. 496, affirmed.
CERTIORARI (269 U. S. 546) to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Rhode Island which, on appeal, disapproved an order of the Rhode Island Public Utilities Commission, increasing the rate chargeable to the Attleboro
Company by the Narragansett Electric Lighting Company-the moving party before the commission, and one
of the petitioners here-for electricity furnished at the
Rhode Island and Massachusetts line.

