182

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
273 U. S.

Syllabus.

This being so, and the Senate being a continuing body,
the case cannot be said to have become moot in the ordinary sense. The situation is measurably like that in
Southern Pacific Terminal Co. v. Interstate Commerce
Commission, 219 U. S. 498, 514-516, where it was held
that a suit to enjoin the enforcement of an order of the
Interstate Commerce Commission did not become moot
through the expiration of the order where it was capable
of repetition by the commission and was a matter of public interest. Our judgment may yet be carried into effect
and the investigation proceeded with from the point at
which it apparently was interrupted by reason of the
habeas corpus proceedings. In these circumstances we
think a judgment should be rendered as was done in the
case cited.
What has been said requires that the final order in the
district court discharging the witness from custody be
reversed.
Final order reversed.
MR. JUSTICE STONE did not participate in the consideration or decision of the case.

GREAT NORTHERN RAILWAY COMPANY
v. SUTHERLAND,
TODIAN.

ALIEN

PROPERTY

ET AL.

CUS-

APPEAL FROM THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE
SOUTHERN

DISTRICT OF NEW YORK.

No. 53. Argued December 3, 6, 1926.--Decided January 17, 1927.
1. Stock is presumed to be owned by the person registered as owner
on the company's books; and when stated to be held by the
registered owner for another named person, the latter is presumed
to own the whole beneficial interest. P. 188.
2. A demand of the Alien Property Custodian upon a corporation for
transfer to himself of every right, title and interest of an alien
enemy in shares of stock, construmed as a demand for, and as a
symbolic seizure of, the shares. P. 188.

GT. NORTHERN RY. v. SUTHERLAND.
182

183

Counsel for Parties.

3. By the Act of November 4, 1918, it was made the duty of a corporation to cancel old certificates and issue new ones for shares
seized by the Custodian before or after the date of the Act. P. 192.
4. Under that Act the right of the Custodian to new certificates did
not depend upon surrender of the old ones. P. 192.
5. To require a corporation so to transfer enemy-owned shares, without surrender of the old certificates, was within the war power of
Congress, and did not deprive of due process the corporation issuing
the shares or the company acting as its registrar, they being protected by § 7(e) of the Trading with the Enemy Act and nonenemy owners by § 9. P. 193.
So held, where certificates and by-laws allowed transfer only by
the holder or his attorney upon surrender and cancellation of the
old certificates--conditions also imposed by the company's charter;
and when the company had its transfer office, and its shares listed
on an exchange, in New York by the laws of which it need not
issue certificates without surrender of old, unless the old were lost '
or destroyed; and where the company's registrar, a New York
Trust Company, as a condition to being accepted by the exchange,
was obliged not to register transfers without surrender of outstanding certificates.
Affirmed.

APPEAL from a decree of the District Court, in a suit
by the Alien Property Custodian under the Trading with
the Enemy Act, requiring the Great Northern Railway
Company and the Central Union Trust Company, registrar of its stock, to transfer shares of stock held by
aliens, and to issue and countersign new certificates therefor, in the name of certain trust companies as depositaries
for the Custodian.

Mr. Walker D. Hines, with whom Mr. M. L. Countryman was on the brief, for the appellants.
Assistant Attorney General Letts, with whom Mr. Dean
Hill Stanley, Special Assistant to the Attorney General,
was on the brief, for the appellee.
Mr. Harold W. Bissell filed a brief as amicus curiae, by
special leave of Court, on behalf of the Deutsche Bank.

184

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

MR. JusTICE BRANDEIS

273 U. S.

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a suit under § 17 of Trading with the Enemy
Act, October 6, 1917, c. 106, 40 Stat. 411, 425, which confers upon the district courts jurisdiction to enter "such
orders and decrees, and to issue such process as may be
necessary and proper in the premises to enforce the provisions of this Act." It was brought on February 7, 1925,
in the federal court for southern New York. The Alien
Property Custodian was the plaintiff; the Great Northern
Railway Company and the Central Union Trust Company
the defendants. The relief sought is that the Great
Northern be ordered to cancel upon its books and records
designated certificates for shares of its stock standing in
names of or held for enemies; that it issue new certificates
therefor in the names of certain trust companies as depositaries for the Custodian; that the Central Union be ordered
to countersign the new certificates as Registrar of Transfers; and that the new certificates so countersigned be delivered to the Custodian without his presenting and surrendering the old ones. The defendants entered a general
appearance. On the pleadings and facts stipulated, the
court entered a final decree, which required the issue,
countersigning and delivery of the new certificates without presentation or surrender of those outstanding. Rights
arising under the Constitution and treaties are alleged to
have been violated. On this ground, a direct appeal was
taken to this Court under § 238 of the Judicial Code, as
it stood prior to the effective date of the Act of February
13, 1925.
During the war the Great Northern filed with the
Custodian, from time to time, the reports required by
§ 7(a) of the Act. All of these reports except one contained lists of persons who were registered owners of
specified numbers of shares and were believed to be ene-

GT. NORTHERN RY. v. SUTHERLAND.
182

185

Opinion of the Court.

mies. One report stated that Lieber & Co., believed to
be an enemy, was believed to be the beneficial owner of
shares standing in the name of A. Biederman & Co. All
these reports stated that the actual location of the certificates representing said shares was unknown to the company. In consequence of these reports, the Custodian
made upon the Great Northern demands in writing in
respect to the shares therein referred to. All these demands were made during the war; and all were in substantially the same form. The construction and effect of
that document are the principal matters in controversy.
The part of it requiring special consideration is this:
"To Great Northern Railway Company, Address 32 Nassau St., New York, N. Y.:
"I, A. Mitchell Palmer, Alien Property Custodian, duly
appointed, qualified, and acting under the provisions of
the Act of Congress known as the 'Trading with the
enemy Act,' approved October 6, 1917, and the executive
orders issued in. pursuance thereof, by virtue of the authority vested in me by said act, and by said executive
orders, after investigation do determine that Albertine,
Baroness Schauenburg (name of enemy or ally of enemy),
whose address is Friedburg, Baden, Germany (last known
address), is an enemy (not holding a license granted by
the President), and has a certain right, title, and interest
in and to 12 shares of preferred (common, preferred)
stock standing on your books in the name of Albertine,
Baroness Schauenburg.
"I, as Alien Property Custodian, do hereby require
that you shall convey, transfer, assign, and deliver to me
as Alien Property Custodian, to be by me held, administered, and accounted for as provided by law, every right,
title, and interest of the said enemy in said stock, including in respect to the said stock the right which the said
enemy may have, (a) to receive all notices issued by you

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U.S.

to the holders or owners of similar stock, shares, or certificates; (b) to exercise all voting power appertaining to
such stock, shares, or certificates; (c) to receive all subscription rights, dividends, and other distributions and
payments, whether of capital or of income, declared or
made on account of such stock, shares, or certificates.
"I, as Alien Property Custodian, do hereby further
require that you note the substance of this demand upon
your stock books and/or stock ledger, and that you furnish
a.copy of this demand to the registrar and/or transfer
agent, if any, of the stock in respect to which this demand
is made.
"I, as Alien Property Custodian, do hereby further
require that within ten days from the service of this
demand upon you, - you report to me any and all acts
which you have done, or omitted to do, pursuant to the
requirements of this demand.
"Until otherwise directed, you will remit to the Alien
Property Custodian at Washington, by check payable to
his order, all payments, whether of capital or income, now
or hereafter declared or due on account of such stock,
shares, or certificates, and you will direct such notices in
respect to the said stock, shares, or certificates to the
Alien Property Custodian.
"This demand is supplementary to any demand which
may hitherto have been made upon you, accompanied
by the presentation of certificates which represent shares
or beneficial interests, for the transfer into my name as
Alien Property Custodian, of such certificates, or for the
transfer thereof into the name of any nominee of me as
Alien Property Custodian, and this demand shall, not
prejudice or affect any demand accompanied by such certificates which has been, or which may hereafter be,
made."
The Custodian admitted that, during the war, there
was no request specifically for the cancellation of the old

GT. NORTHERN RY. v. SUTHERLAND.
182

187

Opinion of the Court.

certificates and the issue of new ones. He contended
that the President determined, as set forth in the original
demand, that the persons in whose names the shares were
registered, or those for whom the shares were held, were
enemies not licensed, each having a certain right, title and
interest in and to the specific shares; that, by the demand,
he duly seized these shares and the alien's interest therein; that thereby the Custodian secured legally a control
over the shares as complete and effective as the control
given the Custodian over chattels physically seized; that
this is true although prior to the Act of November 4, 1918,
c. 201, § 1, Congress had not provided any method for
enforcing the issue of new certificates without surrender
of the old; that when the Trading with the Enemy Act
was so amended, he became entitled to have new certificates for the shares delivered to him without the presentation or. surrender of the old ones; that having thereafter
duly requested their issue and delivery to him he was
entitled to the relief prayed for.
The companies admitted that, after the war and before
institution of the suit, there was a request, appropriate
in form. They denied that the determinations and the
demands made during the war were duly made. But
their defense was rested mainly on the claim that the
corpus of the shares, as distinguished from an undefined
interest therein, was not seized or demanded during the
war. They contend that by the original demand the
President determined only that the enemy had some interest; that the instrument did not constitute a symbolic
seizure of the shares; and, hence, that it did not create
such a right as could serve as a basis for compelling their
transfer to the Custodian, or the cancellation of the old
certificates and the issue of the new ones. They insist
that the determination of some interest is not equivalent
to determining that the shares belong to or are held for
the enemy; that any interest held by the enemy, however

188

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

remote or contingent, might satisfy such a determination
and yet the shares in fact belong to and be held for
another, not an enemy; that a demand upon the corporation to assign such an undefined interest is not a demand
that the shares themselves be transferred; and that this
interpretation of the document is supported by the fact
that the Custodian made, at the time, no effort to obtain
a new certificate and in fact expressly indicated that he
was not making any such effort. The companies' further
contention is that, as applied to the facts stipulated, the
Act as amended did not purport to require cancellation
of the old and delivery of new certificates; and that, if
it did, it denied due process and hence was void under the
Fifth Amendment.
It may be assumed that under § 7 recovery by the
Custodian of property demanded by him, is limited by
the scope of the demand. Compare Suther4and v. Guaranty Trust Co., 11 F. (2d) 696; and that the demand
made after the war, if it stood alone, would not avail
the Custodian. Compare Miller v. Rouse, 276 Fed.
715, 717.
First. The main question is whether the Custodian
had, by the demand above set forth, taken action which
could legally serve as a basis for the specific request for
the certificates made after the war. The demand must
be read in the light of the then existing legislation, of
its formal title or designation, of the extracts of the Executive Order embodied in it, and of the reports of the
Great Northern out of which it originated. And these
reports must be read in the light of the fact that stock
is presumed to be owned by the registered owner and
that, where stock is stated to be held by the registered
owner for another named person, the latter is presumed
to own the whole beneficial interest. Compare Turnbull
v. Payson, 95 U. S. 418, 421; Keyser v. Hitz, 133 U. S.
138, 149; Finn v. Brown, 142 U. S. 56, 67.

GT. NORTHERN RY. v. SUTHERLAND.
182

189

Opinion of the Court.

The omission from the demand of the request for a new
certificate is susceptible of a simple explanation. At the
times of the earlier demands, § 12 of the Act, as amended
by Act of March 28, 1918, c. 28, § 1, 40 Stat. 423, 460,
made it the duty of corporations to transfer seized shares
upon its "books into the name of the alien property custodian" only if his demand was "accompanied by the
presentation of the certificates which represent such
shares." The Custodian was unable to present the old
certificates. Consequently, a request for the new certificates would not have been inserted in the demand, even
if the instrument had contained an express recital of the
determination that the enemy owned the whole interest
in the shares and that the whole interest had been seized.
It was not until the amendment of November 4, 1918,
that the corporation was required to cancel the old certificates and issue the new ones, whenever enemy property consisted of "shares of stock or other beneficial interest standing upon its . . . books in the name of
any person .
.
or held .
for the benefit of
any person . . . who shall have been determined by
the President, after investigation, to be an enemy
and which shall have been required to be conveyed,
transferred, assigned or delivered to the Alien Property
Custodian or seized by him . . ." It is true that the
demands for some of the shares were not made until after
November 4, 1918; and that in them the request for the
new certificates might have been made. But, in view of
war conditions, it is not surprising that the modification
of the form in use was not promptly made and that the
old form continued in use.
The form used indicated clearly, in parts other than
that quoted above, the intention to seize the whole property. It was entitled: "Demand on corporation for
stockholders' interest without presentation of certificates.
Demand by Alien Property Custodian for property."

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

Preceding that part of the document addressed specifically
to the Great Northern quoted above, were printed the following "Extracts from Executive Order of February 26,
1918."
Sec. 1 (c). "The words 'right,' ' title,' ' interest,' ' estate,' 'power,' and 'authority' of the enemy, as used
herein, shall be deemed to mean respectively such right,
title, interest, estate, power, and authority of the enemy
as may actually exist and also such aa might or would
exist if the existing state of war had not occurred, and
shall be deemed to include respectively the right, title,
interest, estate, power, and authority in law or equity or
otherwise of any representative of or trustee for the
enemy or other person claiming under or in the right, of,
or for the benefit of, the enemy."
Sec. 2 (a). "A demand for the conveyance, transfer, assignment, delivery, and payment of money or other property, unless expressly qualified or limited, shall be deemed
to include every right, title, interest, and estate of the
eneiny in and to the money or other property demanded
as well as every power and authority of the enemy thereover."
Sec. 2 (c). "When demand shall be made and notice
thereof given, as hereinbefore provided, such demand and
notice shall forthwith vest in the Alien Property Custodian such right, title, interest, and estate in and to and
possession of the money or other property demanded and
such power or authority thereover as may be included
within the demand, and the Alien Property Custodian
may thereupon proceed to administer such money and
other property in accordance with the provisions of the
'Trading with the enemy Act' and with any order, rules,
or regulations heretofore, hereby, or hereafter made by
me or heretofore or hereafter made by the Alien Property
Custodian."
See. 3 (d). "The Alien Poperty Custodian may exercise any right, power, or authority of the enemy in, to,

GT. NORTHERN RY. v. SUTHERLAND.
182

191

Opinion of the Court.

and over corporate stock, shares, or certificates representing beneficial interests owing or belonging to or held for,
by, on account of, or on behalf of or for the benefit of
an enemy, including (1) the right to receive all notices
issued by the corporation, unincorporated association,
company, or trustee which issued such stock, shares, or
certificates, to the holders or owners of similar stock,
shares, or certificates, (2) the right to exercise all voting
power appertaining to such stock, shares, or certificates,
and (3) the right to receive all subscription rights, dividends, and other distributions and payments, whether of
capital or income, declared or made on account of such
stock, shares, or certificates, regardless of whether or not
such stock, shares, or certificates be in the possession of
tho Alien Property Custodian and regardless of whether
or not such stock, shares, or certificates have been transferred to the Alien Property Custodian upon the books
of the corporation, association, company, or trustee
issuing the same."
Following the provisions of § 3(d) of the Executive
Order, the Custodian enumerated in his demand upon. the
Great Northern substantially every right which the sole
owner of shares could exercise, except the right to receive
a certificate representing the stock and the right to dispose of the same. His request should be construed as a
demand for delivery of the shares, because it extended to
everything which the legislation permitted prior to the
amendment of November 4, 1918. The Custodian sought
possession, not title, Central Trust Co. v. Garvan, 254
U. S. 554, 566, 569. The term seizure as used in this
connection connotes merely the taking of possession.
Hence there was no occasion to define the extent of the
enemy's ownership. The demand operated as a symbolic seizure.
The claim of the Custodian to have the new certificates
does not rest, as has been argued, upon post-war action

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

taken by him; or upon a construction of the Joint Resolution of July 2, 1921, officially declaring the war at an end;
or upon any provision of the Treaties of Peace, August 24,
1921, 42 Stat. 1946; August 25, 1921, 42 Stat. 1939. The
Custodian's claim and the decree rest wholly upon the
demands made during the war. Since the Custodian's
possession of the shares was completed before the end of
the war, it is immaterial that the demand for new certificates was not made until after the war. The Act of November 4, 1918, had made it the duty of the corporation
to cancel the old certificates and to issue new ones, whenever the Custodian had seized shares. Section 5 of the
Joint Resolution of July 2, 1921, reserved to the Custodian all property which before that date had come
under his control.
The seizures made before November 4, 1918, were
equally effective with those made after. It is urged that
so to hold gives retroactive effect to the amendment of
that date. But this is not true. The amendment does
not enlarge the scope of the seizure. No substantive right
is thereby affected. The amendment confers merely the
adjective right to require of the corporation delivery of
the usual evidence of effective possession of shares. The
right conferred is comparable to providing a new judicial
remedy for an existing substantive right. As was said in
Cox v. Hart, 260 U. S. 427, 435: "A statute is not made
retroactive merely because it draws upon antecedent facts
for its operation."
Second. The companies contend that, even after the
amendment of November 4, 1918, the Act did not purport
to confer upon the Custodian the power to demand new
certificates without surrender of the old. As seen above,
§ 12 of the original Act made it the duty of the corporation to transfer shares or certificates into the Custodian's
name only if the old certificates were surrendered. It is

GT. NORTHERN RY. v. SUTHERLAND.
182

193

Opinion of the Court.

true that this condition was never in terms removed from
that section. But it was necessarily removed when the
Act of November 4, 1918, amended § 7(c) by requiring
the corporation to issue new certificates whenever the
Custodian had demanded the shares of alien enemies. See
Garvan v. Marconi Co., 275 Fed. 486; Garvan v. Certain
Shares of InternationalAgricultural Corp., 276 Fed. 206;
Columbia Brewing Co. v. Miller, 281 Fed. 289; Miller v.
Kaliwerke Aschersleben Aktien-Gesellschaft, 283 Fed.
746.
Third. The companies contend that the Act, so construed and applied, deprives them of due process, since
it confers upon the Custodian rights not possessed even
by the owner of the shares. It is urged that the owners
of stock in the Great Northern, took it subject to the
provision inserted in the certificate that it is "transferable
only on the books of the company in person or by attorney
upon surrender of this certificate "; that the Great Northern's by-laws provide that its shares "shall be transferred
only on the books of the company by the holder thereof
in person or by his attorney upon surrender and cancellation of certificates for a like number of shares "; that these
conditions were imposed by it under its charter, a special
act of the legislature of Minnesota; and that they constitute property attributes inhering in the shares and in
the stock certificates which are evidences thereof; that
the Great Northern shares are listed upon the New York
Stock Exchange and the company maintains in New
York an office for transferring certificates of its stocks;
that § 17 of the Personal Property Law of New York
provides that, except where a certificate is lost or destroyed, the corporation shall not be compelled to issue
a new certificate until the old certificate is surrendered
to it; and that the Central Union, Registrar of Great
Northern stock, is under agreement with the New York
42847o-27-13

OCTOBER TERM, 192.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

Stock Exchange, whereunder such Registrar, as a condition of being accepted by the New York Stock Exchange,
is obligated not to register the transfer of certificates of
Great Northern without surrender of the certificates outstanding therefor.
The decisions of this Court and provisions made in the
Act dispose of this contention. Protection to the rights of
owners other than enemies was provided for by § 9.
Stoehr v. Wallace, 255 U. S.239, 243-246; Central Trust
Co. v. Garvan, 254 U. S. 554, 567-569. Neither the Railway nor the Registrar has any interest in the shares.
They are protected in making delivery of the new certificates by § 7(e) of the Act which provides:
"No person shall be held liable in any court for or in
respect to anything done or omitted in pursuance of any
order, rule, or regulation made by the President under the
authority of this Act.
"Any payment, conveyance, transfer, assignment, or delivery of money or property made to the alien property
custodian hereunder shall be a full acquittance and discharge for all purposes of the obligation of the person
making the same to the extent of same."
The requirement that the Company make complete delivery to the Custodian of the possession of the shares
including the usual indicia was well within the war powers
of Congress. See also Garvan v. CertainShares of InternationalAgricultural Corporation,276 Fed. 206; Miller v.
Kaliwerke Aschersleben Aktien-Gesellschaft, 283 Fed.
746.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE SUTHERLAND, MR. JUSTICE SANFORD and
MR. JUsTICE STONE, dissent.

