MISSOURI PACIFIC v. PORTER.
Statement of the Case.

337

tract price of the coal not delivered, but is chargeable only
with its market value. The difference between that value
and the contract price is the amount of damage deemed by
the law directly and naturally to result in the ordinary
course of events from the appellant's breach of contract.
The cost to appellee of securing the coal and the amount
of its profits are immaterial. Garfield &c. Co. v. N. Y.,
N. H. & H. Railroad, 248 Mass. 502, 506; Kadish v.
Young, 108 Ill. 170, 176, 186. Cf. Jamal v. Dawood
[1916], 1 A. C. 175. The judgment leaves appellant in
as good position as if it had accepted and paid for the coal
in accordance with its contract.
Judgment affirmed.
MISSOURI PACIFIC RAILROAD COMPANY v.

PORTER

ET AL.

ERROR TO THE SUPREME COURT OF ARKANSAS.

No. 107.

Submitted January 11, 1927.-Decided February 21, 1927.

1. Section 1(6) of the Act to Regulate Commerce, requiring carriers
to establish and enforce just and reasonable regulations affecting
"the issuance, form and substance" of bills of lading, applies to
provisions in bills of lading affecting liability of railroads for loss of
property received by them for transportation over an interstate
inland route to a seaport for delivery to a foreign vessel for ocean
carriage to a non-adjacent foreign country. P. 343.
2. This is a general regulation by Congress broad enough to include
stipulations in bills of lading exempting carriers from liability for
loss of such shipments by fire, not due to the carriers' negligence.
P. 345.
3. A state law forbidding such stipulations is therefore as applied to
such shipments invalid in view of the occupation of the field by
Congress. P. 346.
168 Ark. 22, reversed.

ERROR to a judgment of the Supreme Court of Arkansas
which affirmed a judgment against the railroad for loss
of goods by fire, in favor of Porter and other shippers.

342

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

Messrs. Thos. T. Railey, Edward J. White, E. B. Kinsworthy, and Robert E. Wiley, for the plaintiff in error,
submitted.
Mr. J. C. Marshall for the defendant in error, submitted.
MR. JusTIcE BUTLER

delivered the opinion of the Court.

October 21, 1920, at Earle, Arkansas, defendants in error
delivered to plaintiff in error seventy-five bales of cotton
for transportation to Liverpool, England. The carrier
issued to the shippers an export bill of lading in two parts:
the first covered the inland haul from Earle to Brunswick, Georgia, designated as port A, and the second covered the ocean carriage from Brunswick to Liverpool, designated as port B. The inland route specified was over
the lines of railroad of plaintiff in error, the Mobile and
Ohio, and the Atlanta, Birmingham and Atlantic. The
inland rate for the railroads named was 98.5 cents per
hundred pounds. The ocean transportation was to be by
the Leyland Line for the rate of $1.95. The bill of lading
contained, as applicable in respect of the service and
delivery at Brunswick, a provision that, "No carrier or
party in possession of . . . the property, herein described, shall be liable for any loss thereof . . . by
fire . . ." After the bill of lading was issued, while the
cotton was on the cars of the carrier and before they
were moved from Earle, it was destroyed by a fire originating at the compress and which was not set by plaintiff
in error. Sections 843 and 844, Crawford and Moses'
Digest of the Statutes of Arkansas, declare that it is unlawful for any railroad to enter into an agreement with
any shipper for the purpose of limiting or abrogating its
statutory and common law duties or liability as a common
carrier; that all agreements made for that purpose and
any rule or regulation limiting the common law rights
of shippers are void. Defendants in error brought this

MISSOURI PACIFIC v. PORTER.
341

Opinion of the Court.

action in the Circuit Court of Pulaski County, Arkansas,
to recover the value of the cotton. Plaintiff in error
contended-as it here insists--that these provisions of
the Arkansas statute do not apply to the shipment in
question; and that, if held to be applicable, they contravene the laws of the United States regulating interstate
and foreign commerce. The Circuit Court applied the
statute, and gave judgment for the shippers. The carrier
took the case to the Supreme Court of the State, and there
it was held that the Acts of Congress regulating bills of
lading apply only to interstate commerce and to shipments from a point in the United States to an adjacent
foreign country, and do not evince an intention to regulate
bills of lading for shipments from a point in the United
States to non-adjacent foreign countries. 168 Ark. 22.
The case is here on writ of error allowed by the chief
justice of that court. § 237, Judicial Code.
There is no claim that the loss was caused by any
fault or negligence of the carrier; and, if the Arkansas
statute does not apply to the shipment, the clause in
the bill of lading exempting the carrier from liability is
valid. Cau v. Texas & Pacific Ry. Co., 194 U. S. 427.
The power of Congress under the commerce clause to regulate bills of lading in respect of such shipments is-not
questioned; and, if it has entered the field of such regulation, the state statute is thereby superseded. The
Interstate Commerce Act extends to the plaintiff
in error and to the other railroads named in the bill of
lading over which the cotton was to have been transported from Earle, Arkansas, to the port of Brunswick,
Georgia, and it also extends to the interstate transportation over the inland route constituting a part of the
movement in foreign commerce. § 1 (1), (2) and (3).
41 Stat. 474. Among other things, the Act requires all
carriers subject to it to establish and enforce just and
reasonable regulations affecting the issuance, form and

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

substance of bills of lading. § 1 (6). 41 Stat. 475. It
directs the Interstate Commerce Commission to keep informed as to the manner and method in which the business of carrier is conducted, and "to execute and enforce
the provisions of" the Act. § 12. 25 Stat. 858. It provides that whenever, after hearing, the commission shall
be of opinion that any "regulation or practice whatsoever" of the carriers is unjust or unreasonable it may
determine and prescribe what is just, fair and reasonable,
and may make an order requiring the carriers to observe
the regulation or practice prescribed. § 15. 41 Stat. 484.
The Act requires a carrier receiving property for transportation from a point in one State to a point in another
State or from a point in the United States to a point in
an adjacent foreign country to issue bills of lading therefor; and, to some extent, it regulates their provisions affecting the liability of carriers. § 20 (11)-Carmack
and Cummins Amendments. 38 Stat. 1197. Section 25,
added by the Amendment of February 28, 1920, 41 Stat.
497, was enacted to promote the business of common
carriers by water in foreign commerce whose vessels are
registered under the laws of the United States; it applies
to shipments from points in the United States to nonadjacent foreign countries and requires the commission
to do certain things in furtherance and regulation thereof.
Subdivision 4 of that section requires a railroad carrier
receiving a shipment to be delivered to such a vessel
for further transportation to issue a through bill of lading which shall state separately the amount to be paid
for railroad transportation, for water transportation and
in addition, if any, for port charges. It requires the railroad as a part of its undertaking to deliver the shipment
to the vessel and provides that it will not be liable after
such delivery. The commission is expressly empowered,
in such manner as will preserve for the carrier by water
the protection of limited liability provided by law, to pre-

MISSOURI PACIFIC v. PORTER.
341

Opinion of the Court.

scribe the form of such bills of lading. The section does
not apply to shipments in such commerce where the ocean
carriage is by a foreign vessel. The record does not disclose whether the vessel on which the cotton was to have
been carried was registered under the laws of the United
States; and, in favor of the shippers, we assume it was a
foreign vessel.
The question is whether Congress has entered upon the
regulation of provisions in bills of lading affecting liability
of railroads for loss of property received by them for
transportation over an interstate inland route to a seaport for delivery to a foreign vessel for ocean carriage to
a non-adjacent foreign country. All of the provisions
referred to were in force when the cotton was delivered
to plaintiff in error. No Act of Congress or order of the
commission prescribed a form of bill of lading for this
shipment. Cf. In the Matter of Bills of Lading, 64
I. C. C. 347, et seq.; Alaska S. S. Co. v. United States,
259 Fed. 713; same case, 253 U. S. 113. The defendants
in error rightly say that the Carmack Amendment, the
Cummins Amendment, or § 25 does not apply to such a
shipment. But that does not sustain their contention
that Congress has not evinced an intention to regulate
bills of lading for transportation such as is here involved.
Section 1 (6) extends to all carriers and to all transportation subject to the Act; it prescribes a general rule applicable to all regulations and practices affecting the form
or substance of bills of lading in order that they may be
just and reasonable. And the commission is empowered
and directed to enforce the rule.
The general regulation of the "issuance, form, and substance" of bills of lading is broad enough to cover contractual provisions, like the one involved in this case,
exempting railroads from liability for loss of shippers'
property by fire. Congress must be deemed to have determined that the rule laid down and the means provided

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Syllabus.

273 U. S.

to enforce it are sufficient and that no other regulation is
necessary. Its power to regulate such commerce and all
its instrumentalities is supreme; and, as that power has
been exerted, state laws have no application. They cannot be applied in coincidence with, as complementary to
or as in opposition to, federal enactments which disclose
the intention of Congress to enter a field of regulation
that is within its jurisdiction. Napier v. Atlantic Coast
Line Ry. Co., 272 U. S. 605; Oregon-Washington Co. v.
Washington, 270 U. S. 87, 102; Penna. R. R. Co. v. Pub.
Service Comm., 250 U. S. 566; Charleston& Car. R. R.
Co. v. Varnville Co., 237 U. S. 597, 604; Adams Express
Co. v. Croninger, 226 U. S. 491, 505; Nor. Pac. Ry. v.
Washington, 222 U. S. 370, 378; Prigg v. Pennsylvania,
16 Pet. 539, 617, 618; Houston v. Moore, 5 Wheat. 1,
21, 22.
Judgment reversed.

BOWERS, INDIVIDUALLY AND AS COLLECTOR,
v. NEW YORK & ALBANY LIGHTERAGE
COMPANY.
SAME v. SEAMAN.
SAME v. FULLER.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

Nos. 366, 367, 368. Argued January 5, 1927.-Decided February 21,
1927.
The provision of § 250-d of the Revenue Act of 1921 that no "suit
or proceeding" for the collection of the income, excess profits and
other taxes mentioned, due under that or prior Acts, shall be begun
after five years from date when return was filed, applies not only to
suits in court but also to "proceedings" to collect such taxes by
distraint. P. 348.
10 F. (2d) 1017, affirmed.

