OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

MOSLER SAFE COMPANY v. ELY-NORRIS SAFE
COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 94. Argued January 7, 1927.-Decided January 17, 1927.
A manufacturer of safes which are equipped with a patented "explosion chamber" does not make out a case of unfair competition
by alleging that a competitor falsely represents his own safes as
having "an explosion chamber," when non constat that such a
chamber is found only in safes covered by the patent or that, but
for the misrepresentation, the purchasers affected by them would
go to the plaintiff rather than to some other dealer. P. 134.
7 F. (2d) 603, reversed.
CERTIORARI (268 U. S. 684) to a decree of the Circuit
Court of Appeals which reversed a decree of the District
Court dismissing the petitioner's bill to enjoin alleged
unfair competition by the respondent.

Mr. Samuel Owen Edmonds for the petitioner.
Mr. Lawrence Bristol, with whom Mr. F. P. Warfield
and George S. Schmidt were on the brief, for the respondent.
MR.

JUSTICE

HOLmES delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a bill in equity brought by a corporation of
New Jersey against a corporation of New York alleging
unfair competition. It was treated below as a suit by
the only manufacturer of safes containing an explosion
chamber for protection against burglars. It seeks an
injunction against selling safes with a metal band around
the door in the place where the plaintiff put the chamber,
or falsely representing that the defendant's safes contain an explosion chamber. The plaintiff admitted that

MOSLER CO. v. ELY-NORRIS CO.
132

Opinion of the Court.

the defendant's safes bore the defendant's name and address and that the defendant never gave any customer
reason to believe that its safes were of the plaintiff's
make. The District Court, following Amnerin n Washboard Co. v. Saginaw Manufacturing Co., 103 Fed. 281,
held that representations such as were sought to be enjoined did not give a private cause of action. The Circuit
Court of Appeals held that if, as it took it to be alleged,
the plaintiff had the monopoly of explosion chambers and
the defendant falsely represented that its safes had such
chambers, the plaintiff had a good case, and that since
the decision above cited the law had grown more liberal
in granting relief. It therefore reversed the decree below. 7 F. (2d) 603. In view of the conflict between the
Circuit Courts of Appeals a writ of certiorari was granted
by this Court. 268 U. S. 684.
At the hearing below all attention seems to have been
concentrated on the question passed upon and the forcibly
stated reasons that induced this Court of Appeals to differ
from that for the Sixth Circuit. But, upon a closer
scrutiny of the bill than seems to have been invited
before, it does not present that broad and interesting
issue. The bill alleges that the plaintiff has a patent
for an explosion chamber as described and claimed in
said Letters Patent; that it has the exclusive right to
make and sell safes containing such an explosion chamber; that no other safes containing such an explosion
chamber could be got in the United States before the
defendant, as it is alleged, infringed the plaintiff's patent,
for which alleged infringement a suit is pending. It then
is alleged that the defendant is making and selling safes
with a metal band around the door at substantially the
same location as the explosion chamber of plaintiff's safes,
and has represented to the public that the said metal
band was employed to cover or close an explosion chamber by reason of which the public has been led to pur-

OCTOBER TERM, 1926.
Opinion of the Court.

273 U. S.

chase defendant's said safes as and for safes containing an
explosion chamber, such as is manufactured and sold by
the plaintiff herein. It is alleged further that sometimes the defendant's safes have no explosion chamber
under the band but are bought by those who want safes
with a chamber and so the defendant has deprived the
plaintiff of sales, competed unfairly and damaged the
plaintiff's reputation. The plaintiff relies upon its patent
suit for relief in respect of the sales of safes alleged to
infringe its rights. It complains here only of false representations as to safes that do not infringe but that are
sold as having explosion chambers although in fact they
do not.
It is consistent with every allegation in the bill and
the defendant in argument asserted it to be a fact, that
there are other safes with explosion chambers beside that
for which the plaintiff has a patent. The defendant is
charged only with representing that its safes had an explosion chamber, which, so far as appears, it had a perfect
right to do if the representation was true. If on the other
hand the representation was false as it is alleged sometimes to have been, there is nothing to show that customers had they known the facts would have gone to the
plaintiff rather than to other competitors in the market,
or to lay a foundation for the claim for a loss of sales.
The bill is so framed as to seem to invite the decision
that was obtained from the Circuit Court of Appeals, but
when scrutinized is seen to have so limited its statements
as to exclude the right to complain.
Decree reversed.

