CLARK v. ALLEN.
486

Syllabus.

should be required to sustain the state's power to tax the
trust res, whether for all or only a fraction of its value.
Finally, whatever might be true of a single trustee or
of several residing in a single state, I should doubt the
thesis that the interest of one of two or more trustees
in a trust is more substantial than that of a beneficiary or
receives greater protection or benefit from the state of his
residence. And if the beneficiary's residence alone is insufficient to sustain a state's power to tax the corpus of the
trust, cf. Brooke v. Norfolk, 277 U. S. 27,1 it would seem
that the mere residence of one of a number of trustees
hardly would supply a firmer foundation.

CLARK, ATTORNEY GENERAL, AS SUCCESSOR
TO THE ALIEN PROPERTY CUSTODIAN, v.
ALLEN ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 626.

Argued April 11, 1947.-Decided June 9,1947.

1. The provisions of Article IV of the Treaty of 1923 with Germany,
which assures to German heirs of "any person" holding realty in
the United States the right to inherit the same, to sell it within
three years, to withdraw the proceeds, and to be exempt from
discriminatory taxation, prevail over any conflicting provision of
California law-unless the provisions of the Treaty have been superseded or abrogated. Pp. 507-508.
2. So far as the right to inherit realty is concerned, the Treaty has
not been abrogated or superseded-although the right to sell it and
withdraw the proceeds may have been abrogated and the Federal
Government has discretionary power to vest the property in itself,
subject to certain rights of the owners. Pp. 508-514.
'But cf. Holmes, J., dissenting in Safe Deposit & Trust Co. v.
Virginia,280 U. S. 83, 96.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Statement of the Case.

331 U. S.

(a) The outbreak of war does not necessarily suspend or abrogate treaty provisions. P. 508.
(b) The national policy expressed in the Trading with the Enemy
Act, as amended by the First War Powers Act, is not incompatible
with the right of inheritance of realty granted German aliens under
Article IV of the Treaty. Pp. 510-512.
(c) The Treaty of Berlin, which accorded the United States all
rights and advantages specified in the Joint Resolution of July 2,
1921, vesting in, the United States absolute title to property of
German nationals then held by the United States, did not abrogate
the right of German heirs under the 1923 Treaty with Germany to
inherit realty in this country. Pp. 512-514.
(d) There is no evidence that the political departments of the
Government have considered that the collapse and surrender of
Germany put an end to such provisions of the 1923 Treaty as
survived the outbreak of war or the obligations of either party in
respect to them. P. 514.
3. The provisions of Article IV of the Treaty of 1923 with Germany,
which assures to German nationals the power to dispose of their
personal property in this country, does not cover personalty located
in this country which an American citizen undertakes to leave to
German nationals, but it does cover personalty in this country
which a German national undertakes to dispose of by will. Pp.
514-516, 517.
4. Section 259 of the California Probate Code as it existed in 1942,
which made the right of non-resident aliens to acquire personal
property dependent upon the reciprocal rights of American citizens
to do so in the countries of which such aliens are inhabitants or
citizens, is not unconstitutional as an invasion by the State of the
field of foreign affairs reserved to the Federal Government. Pp.
516-517.
156 F. 2d 653, reversed in part and affirmed in part.

A resident of California having bequeathed her entire
estate to certain German nationals after the declaration

of war on Germany and the Alien Property Custodian
having vested in himself all their right, title and interest
in the estate, pursuant to Executive Order 9788, 11 Fed.

Reg. 11981, issued under the Trading with the Enemy Act,
as amended by the First War Powers Act, a District Court

CLARK v. ALLEN.
503

Opinion of the Court.

held that the Custodian was entitled to the entire net
estate and that the executor and the California heirs-atlaw had no interest in the estate. 52 F. Supp. 850. The
Circuit Court of Appeals reversed on the ground that the
District Court was without jurisdiction of the subject matter. 147 F. 2d 136. This Court granted certiorari, 325
U. S. 846, and reversed. 326 U. S. 490. The Circuit
Court of Appeals then held for the executor and California
heirs-at-law. 156 F. 2d 653. This Court granted certiorari, 329 U. S. 706, and substituted the Attorney General
as successor to the Alien Property Custodian. 329 U. S.
691. Affirmed in part, reversed in part, and remanded to
the District Court, p. 518.
Harry LeRoy Jones argued the cause for petitioner.
With him on the brief were Acting Solicitor General
Washington, Assistant Attorney General Sonnett, M. S.
Isenbergh, David Schwartz and Armand B. DuBois.
S. C. Masterson argued the cause for respondents.
With him on the brief was Joseph Wahrhaftig.
By special leave of Court, Everett W. Mattoon, Deputy
Attorney General, argued the cause for the State of California, as amicus curiae, urging affirmance. With him on
the brief was Fred N. Howser, Attorney General.
MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Alvina Wagner, a resident of California, died in 1942,
leaving real and personal property situate there. By a
will dated December 23, 1941, and admitted to probate
in a California court in 1942, she bequeathed her entire
estate to four relatives who are nationals and residents of Germany. Six heirs-at-law, residents of California, filed a petition for determination of heirship in

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

the probate proceedings claiming that the German nationals were ineligible as legatees under California law.'
There has never been a hearing on that petition. For
in 1943 the Alien Property Custodian, to whose functions
the Attorney General has recently succeeded,' vested in
himself all right, title and interest of the German nationals in the estate of this decedent.3 He thereupon instituted this action in the District Court against the
executor under the will and the California heirs-at-law
for a determination that they had no interest in the
estate and that he was entitled to the entire net estate,
I Section 259, California Probate Code, in 1942 provided:
"The rights of aliens not residing within the United States or its
territories to take either real or personal property or the proceeds
thereof in this State by succession or testamentary disposition, upon
the same terms and conditions as residents and citizens of the United
States is dependent in each case upon the existence of a reciprocal
right upon the part of citizens of the United States to take real and
personal property and the proceeds thereof upon the same terms and
conditions as residents and citizens of the respective countries of
which such aliens are inhabitants and citizens and upon the rights of
citizens of the United States to receive by payment to them within
the United States or its territories money originating from the estates
of persons dying within such foreign countries."
Section 259.2 provided:
"If such reciprocal rights are not found to exist and if no heirs other
than such aliens are found eligible to take such property, the property
shall be disposed of as escheated property."
The condition with respect to receipt of moneys in the United States
was repealed in 1945, while this case was pending. Cal. Stats. 1945, c.
1160, § 1, effective September 15, 1945. Under the original act, the
non-resident aliens had the burden of establishing the fact of existence
of the reciprocal rights. § 259.1. By the 1945 amendment the burden of establishing the non-existence of such reciprocal right was
placed on him who challenged the right of the non-resident aliens to
take. Section 259.2 was repealed.
2 Exec. Order No. 9788, Oct. 15, 1946, 11 Fed. Reg. 11981.
3 Vesting Order No. 762,8 Fed. Reg. 1252.

CLARK v. ALLEN.
503

Opinion of the Court.

after payment of administration and other expenses.
The District Court granted judgment for the Custodian
on the pleadings. 52 F. Supp. 850. The Circuit Court
of Appeals reversed, holding that the District Court was
without jurisdiction of the subject matter. 147 F. 2d 136.
The case came here on certiorari. We held that the District Court had jurisdiction of the suit and remanded the
cause to the Circuit Court of Appeals for consideration of
the merits. 326 U. S. 490. The Circuit Court of Appeals
thereupon held for respondents. 156 F. 2d 653. The case
is here again on a petition for a writ of certiorari which
we granted because the issues raised are of national
importance.
First. Our problem starts with the Treaty of Friendship, Commerce and Consular Rights with Germany,
signed December 8, 1923, and proclaimed October 14,
1925. 44 Stat. 2132. It has different provisions governing the testamentary disposition of realty and personalty,
which we will treat separately. The one pertaining to
realty, contained in Article IV, reads as follows:
"Where, on the death of any person holding real
or other immovable property or interests therein
within the territories of one High Contracting Party,
such property or interests therein would, by the laws
of the country or by a testamentary disposition,
descend or pass to a national of the other High Contracting Party, whether resident or non-resident, were
he not disqualified by the laws of the country where
such property or interests therein is or are situated,
such national shall be allowed a term of three years
in which to sell the same, this term to be reasonably
prolonged if circumstances render it necessary, and
withdraw the proceeds thereof, without restraint or
interference, and exempt from any succession, probate or administrative duties or charges other than
755552 0-48-36

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

those which may be imposed in like cases upon the
nationals of the country from which such proceeds
may be drawn."
The rights secured are in terms a right to sell within a
specified time plus a right to withdraw the proceeds and
an exemption from discriminatory taxation. It is plain
that those rights extend to the German heirs of "any person" holding realty in the United States. And though
they are not expressed in terms of ownership or the right
to inherit, that is their import and meaning. Techt v.
Hughes, 229 N. Y. 222, 240, 128 N. E. 185, 191; Ahrens v.
Ahrens, 144 Iowa 486, 489, 123 N. W. 164, 166. And see
People v. Gerke, 5 Cal. 381; Scharpf v. Schmidt, 172 Ill.
255, 50 N. E. 182; Colson v. Carlson, 116 Kan. 593, 227
P. 360; Goos v. Brocks, 117 Neb. 750, 223 N. W. 13.
If, therefore, the provisions of the treaty have not been
superseded or abrogated, they prevail over any requirements of California law which conflict with them.
Hauenstein v. Lynham, 100 U. S.483, 488-490.
Second. The Circuit Court of Appeals concluded that
these provisions of the treaty had been abrogated. It
relied for that conclusion on the Trading with the Enemy
Act, 40 Stat. 411, 50 U. S. C. App. § 1 et seq., as amended
by the First War Powers Act, 55 Stat. 839, 50 U. S. C.
App. (Supp. I, 1941) § 5, and the Treaty of Berlin, 42
Stat. 1939.
We start from the premise that the outbreak of war
does not necessarily suspend or abrogate treaty provisions.
Society for the Propagationof the Gospel v. New Haven,
8 Wheat. 464, 494-495. There may of course be such an
incompatibility between a particular treaty provision and
the maintenance of a state of war as to make clear that
it should not be enforced. Karnuth v. United States, 279
U. S.231. Or the Chief Executive or the Congress may
have formulated a national policy quite inconsistent with

CLARK v. ALLEN.
503

Opinion of the Court.

the enforcement of a treaty in whole or in part. This was
the view stated in Techt v. Hughes, supra, and we believe
it to be the correct one. That case concerned the right
of a resident alien enemy to inherit real property in New
York. Under New York law, as it then stood, an alien
enemy had no such right. The question was whether the
right was granted by a reciprocal inheritance provision in
a treaty with Austria which was couched in terms practically identical with those we have here. The court found
nothing incompatible with national policy in permitting
the resident alien enemy to have the right of inheritance
granted by the treaty. Cardozo, J., speaking for the court,
stated the applicable principles as follows:
"The question is not what states may do after war
has supervened, and this without breach of their duty
as members of the society of nations. The question
is what courts are to presume that they have
done. . . . President and senate may denounce the
treaty, and thus terminate its life. Congress may
enact an inconsistent rule, which will control the
action of the courts (Fong Yue Ting v. U. S.,
149 U. S. 698). The treaty of peace itself may set
up new relations, and terminate earlier compacts
either tacitly or expressly. . . . But until some one
of these things is done, until some one of these events
occurs, while war is still flagrant, and the will of the
political departments of the government unrevealed,
the courts, as I view their function, play a humbler
and more cautious part. It is not for them to denounce treaties generally, en bloc. Their part it is,
as one provision or another is involved in some actual
controversy before them, to determine whether, alone,
or by force of connection with an inseparable scheme,
the provision is inconsistent with the policy or safety
of the nation in the emergency of war, and hence

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

presumably intended to be limited to times of peace.
The mere fact that other portions of the treaty are
suspended or even abrogated is not conclusive. The
treaty does not fall in its entirety unless it has the
character of an indivisible act." 229 N. Y. pp. 242243, 128 N. E. p. 192.
To the same effect see Goos v. Brocks, supra; State v.
Reardon, 120 Kan. 614, 245 P. 158.'
We do not think that the national policy expressed in
the Trading with the Enemy Act, as amended, is incompatible with the right of inheritance granted German
aliens under Article IV of the treaty. It is true that since
the declaration of war on December 11, 1941 (55 Stat.
796), the Act and the Executive Orders issued thereunder
have prohibited the entry of German nationals into this
country,' have outlawed communications or transactions
of a commercial character with them,' and have precluded
the removal of money or property from this country for
their use or account.' We assume that these provisions
abrogate the parts of Article IV of the treaty dealing
with the liquidation of the inheritance and the withdrawal
of the proceeds, even though the Act provides that the
prohibited activities and transactions may be licensed.8
But the Act and the Executive Orders do not evince such
hostility to ownership of property by alien enemies as
to imply that its acquisition conflicts with the national
policy. There is, indeed, tacit recognition that acquisition of property by inheritance is compatible with the
4 For a recent review of the authorities see Lenoir, The Effect of War
on Bilateral Treaties, 34 Geo. L. J. 129.
5§3 (b).
6§3 (a).
7 § 7 (c); § 5 (b), as amended; Exec. Order No. 8785, 3 C. F. R.
Cum. Supp. 948.
B§5 (a).

CLARK v. ALLEN.
503

Opinion of the Court.

scheme of the Act. For the custodian is expressly empowered to represent the alien enemy heir in all legal proceedings; including those incident to succession.' Much
reliance for the contrary view is placed on the power
to vest alien property in an agency of the United States."0
But the power to vest, i. e., to take away, what may
be owned or acquired does not reveal a policy at odds
with the reciprocal right to inherit granted by Article
IV of the treaty. For the power to vest is discretionary
not mandatory. The loss of the inheritance by vesting
is, therefore, not inevitable. But more important, vesting
does not necessarily deprive the alien enemy of all the
benefits of his inheritance. If he owes money to American
creditors, the property will be applied to the payment of
his debts. 1
To give the power to vest the effect which respondents
urge would, indeed, prove too much. That power is not
restricted to property of alien enemies. It extends to the
property of nationals of any foreign country, friend or
enemy." Provisions comparable to that contained in Article IV of the present treaty are found in existing treaties
9 Exec. Order No. 9193,
10

5, 3 C. F. R. Cum. Supp. 1174, 1176.

Section 5 (b) (1), as amended, provides in part:

"During the time of war or during any other period of national
emergency declared by the President . . . any property or interest
of any foreign country or national thereof shall vest, when, as, and
upon the terms, directed by the President, in such agency or person as
may be designated from time to time by the President, and upon such
terms and conditions as the President may prescribe such interest or
property shall be held, used, administered, liquidated, sold, or otherwise dealt with in the interest of and for the benefit of the United
States, and such designated agency or person may perform any and
all acts incident to the accomplishment or furtherance of these
purposes . .. ."
1"60 Stat. 925, adding § 34 to the Trading with the Enemy Act.
12 See note 10, supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

with friendly nations."8 We will not readily assume that
when Congress enacted § 5 (b) and authorized the vesting
of property, it had a purpose to abrogate all such treaty
clauses. Cf. Cook v. United States, 288 U. S. 102, 120.
Yet if the power to vest is inconsistent with the right of
inheritance of an alien enemy, it is difficult to see why
it is any less so when other aliens are involved. Finally,
there is a distinction between the acquisition of property
and the use thereof which § 5 (b) itself recognizes. That
section not only grants the President the power to vest;
it likewise grants him authority under the same circumstances to "prevent or prohibit, any acquisition...
of . . . any property in which any foreign country or a
national thereof has any interest . . . ." § 5 (b) (1) (B).
No action has been taken to prevent or prohibit the acquisition of property by inheritance on the part of enemy
aliens. The grant of express power to cut off, inter alia,
the right of inheritance and the non-exercise of the power
lend support to the view that the Trading with the Enemy
Act, as amended, did not without more suspend or abrogate
Article IV of the present treaty. This conclusion squares
with the general rule stated in Karnuth v. United States,
supra, p. 237, that treaty provisions "giving the right to
citizens or subjects of one of the high contracting powers
to continue to hold and transmit land in the territory of
the other" survive the outbreak of war.
The argument based on the Treaty of Berlin is inconclusive. The Joint Resolution of July 2, 1921, 42 Stat.
105, 106, declared that property of German nationals held
by the United States should be retained and no disposition
made of it, except as specifically provided by law, until
the German government made suitable provision for the
satisfaction of claims of American nationals against it.
13 Treaty with Great Britain, Arts. 1, 11, March 2, 1899, 31 Stat.
1939. Treaty with Norway, Art. IV, June 5, 1928, 47 Stat. 2135,
2138.

CLARK v. ALLEN.
503

Opinion of the Court.

Thus absolute title to the property in question became
vested in the United States. Cummings v. Deutsche
Bank, 300 U. S. 115. The Treaty of Berlin accorded the
United States all rights and advantages specified in the
resolution. But the Treaty of 1828 with Prussia contained a provision substantially similar to Article IV of
the present treaty. 8 Stat. 378, 384, Art. XIV. Hence
it is argued that if the Treaty of 1828 survived the outbreak of war and thus guaranteed property rights in German nationals by way of inheritance during that war, it
would not have been necessary to have negotiated a new
convention covering the same ground in 1923. And it is
also argued that if the provision in the earlier treaty did
not survive the war, it is unlikely that the same parties
would intend like provisions in the later treaty to have a
different effect.
The attitude of the State Department has varied. In
1918 Secretary Lansing expressed the view that such treaty
provisions were not in force during the war with Germany
and Austria. 4 Today the Department apparently takes
the other view. 1 We have no reliable evidence of the intention of the high contracting parties outside the words
of the present treaty. The attitude and conduct under
earlier treaties, reflecting as they did numerous contingencies and conditions, leave no sure guide to the construction of the present treaty. Where the relevant historical
sources and the instrument itself give no plain indication
that it is to become inoperative in whole or in part on the
outbreak of war, we are left to determine, as Techt v.
Hughes, supra, indicates, whether the provision under
which rights are asserted is incompatible with national
14 U. S. Foreign Rel., 1918 Supp. 2, p. 309 (Dept. State 1933); VI
Hackworth, Digest of International Law (1943) p. 327.
15 Letter to the Attorney General from Acting Secretary of State,

Joseph C. Grew, dated May 21, 1945, commenting on the Government's position in the present litigation.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

policy in time of war. So far as the right of inheritance
of realty under Article IV of the present treaty is concerned, we find no incompatibility with national policy,
for reasons already given.
It is argued, however, that the Treaty of 1923 with Germany must be held to have failed to survive the war, since
Germany, as a result of its defeat and the occupation by
the Allies, has ceased to exist as an independent national
or international community. But the question whether
a state is in a position to perform its treaty obligations is
essentially a political question. Terlinden v. Ames, 184
U. S. 270, 288. We find no evidence that the political
departments have considered the collapse and surrender
of Germany as putting an end to such provisions of the
treaty as survived the outbreak of the war or the obligation of either party in respect to them. The Allied Control Council has, indeed, assumed control of Germany's
foreign affairs and treaty obligations " -a policy and
course of conduct by the political departments wholly consistent with the maintenance and enforcement, rather than
the repudiation, of pre-existing treaties.
Third. The problem of the personalty raises distinct
questions. Article IV of the treaty contains the following
provision pertaining to it:
"Nationals of either High Contracting Party may
have full power to dispose of their personal property
of every kind within the territories of the other, by
testament, donation, or otherwise, and their heirs, legatees and donees, of whatsoever nationality, whether
resident or non-resident, shall succeed to such personal property, and may take possession thereof,
either by themselves or by others acting for them,
and retain or dispose of the same at their pleasure
10 The Axis in Defeat, State Dept. Pub. No. 2423, pp. 71, 72, 77.

CLARK v. ALLEN.
503

Opinion of the Court.

subject to the payment of such duties or charges only
as the nationals of the High Contracting Party within
whose territories such property may be or belong shall
be liable to pay in like cases."
A practically identical provision of the Treaty of 1844
with Wurttemburg, Art. III, 8 Stat. 588, was before the
Court in Fredericksonv. Louisiana,23 How. 445. In that
case the testator was a citizen of the United States, his legatees being citizens and residents of Wurttemberg. Louisiana, where the testator was domiciled, levied a succession
tax of 10 per cent on legatees not domiciled in the United
States. The Court held that the treaty did not cover the
"case of a citizen or subject of the respective countries
residing at home, and disposing of property there in favor
of a citizen or subject of the other . . . ." pp. 447-448.
That decision was made in 1860. In 1917 the Court followed it in cases involving three other treaties. Petersen
v. Iowa, 245 U. S. 170; Duus v. Brown, 245 U. S. 176;
Skarderudv. Tax Commission, 245 U. S.633.
The construction adopted by those cases is, to say the
least, permissible when the syntax of the sentences dealing
with realty and personalty is considered. So far as realty
is concerned, the testator includes "any person"; and the
property covered is that within the territory of either of
the high contracting parties. In case of personality, the
provision governs the right of "nationals" of either contracting party to dispose of their property within the territory of the "other" contracting party; and it is "such personal property" that the "heirs, legatees and donees" are
entitled to take.
Petitioner, however, presents a detailed account of the
history of the clause which was not before the Court in
Fredericksonv. Louisiana,supra, and which bears out the
construction that it grants the foreign heir the right to
succeed to his inheritance or the proceeds thereof. But

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

we do not stop to review that history. For the consistent
judicial construction of the language since 1860 has given
it a character which the treaty-making agencies have not
seen fit to alter. And that construction is entirely consistent with the plain language of the treaty. We therefore do not deem it appropriate to change that construction
at this late date, even though as an original matter the
other view might have much to commend it.
We accordingly hold that Article IV of the treaty does
not cover personalty located in this country and which
an American citizen undertakes to leave to German nationals. We do not know from the present record the
nationality of Alvina Wagner. But since the issue arises
on the Government's motion for judgment on the pleadings, we proceed on the assumption less favorable to it,
viz., that she was an American citizen.
Fourth. It is argued, however, that even though the
provision of the treaty is inapplicable, the personalty may
not be disposed of pursuant to the California statute because that statute is unconstitutional. Issues under the
Fourteenth Amendment are not raised as in Terrace v.
Thompson, 263 U. S. 197. The challenge to the statute
is that it is an extension of state power into the field of
foreign affairs, which is exclusively reserved by the Constitution to the Federal Government. That argument is
based on the fact that under the statute the right of nonresident aliens to take by succession or testamentary disposition is dependent upon the existence of a reciprocal
right on the part of citizens of the United States to take
personalty on the same terms and conditions as residents
and citizens of the other nation.
The argument is that
by this method California seeks to promote the right of
American citizens to inherit abroad by offering to aliens
17

See note 1, supra.

CLARK v. ALLEN.
503

Opinion of the Court.

reciprocal rights of inheritance in California. Such an
offer of reciprocal arrangements is said to be a matter for
settlement by the Federal Government on a nation-wide
basis.
In Blythe v. Hinckley, 180 U. S. 333, California had
granted aliens an unqualified right to inherit property
within its borders. The alien claimant was a citizen of
Great Britain with whom the United States had no treaty
providing for inheritance by aliens in this country. The
argument was that a grant of rights to aliens by a State
was, in absence of a treaty, a forbidden entry into foreign
affairs. The Court rejected the argument as being an
extraordinary one. The objection to the present statute
is equally farfetched.
Rights of succession to property are determined by local
law. See Lyeth v. Hoey, 305 U. S. 188, 193; Irving Trust
Co. v. Day, 314 U. S. 556, 562. Those rights may be affected by an overriding federal policy, as where a treaty
makes different or conflicting arrangements. Hauenstein
v. Lynham, supra. Then the state policy must give way.
Cf. Hines v. Davidowitz, 312 U. S. 52. But here there
is no treaty governing the rights of succession to the personal property. Nor has California entered the forbidden
domain of negotiating with a foreign country, United
States v. Curtiss-Wright Corp., 299 U. S. 304, 316-17,
or making a compact with it contrary to the prohibition
of Article I, Section 10 of the Constitution. What California has done will have some incidental or indirect effect
in foreign countries. But that is true of many state laws
which none would claim cross the forbidden line.
In summary, we hold that disposition of the realty is
governed by Article IV of the treaty. Disposition of the
personalty, however, is not governed by the treaty unless
it is determined that Alvina Wagner was a German national. If she was an American citizen, disposition of the

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
RUTLEDGE, J., concurring in part.

331 U. S.

personalty is governed by California law. Whether there
are other requirements of the California statute which
would bar the California heirs-at-law is a question on
which we intimate no opinion.
The judgment is reversed in part and affirmed in part,
and the cause is remanded to the District Court for proceedings in conformity with this opinion.
So ordered.
MR. JUSTICE

RUTLEDGE,

concurring in part.

I join in the Court's opinion insofar as it relates to the
real estate. But, as to the personal property, I think the
cause should be remanded to the District Court for determination of Alvina Wagner's nationality, without expression of opinion here upon the constitutionality of the
California statute.
The decision now made on that issue, by virtue of the
Court's hypothesizing that she was an American citizen,
will be rendered both moot and advisory in character if it
is found, as it may well be in the District Court's further
proceedings, that she was a German national. This Court
has consistently declined to decide constitutional questions on hypothetical presentations. Rescue Army v.
Municipal Court, 331 U. S. 549. The practice should be
followed in this case, even though conceivably another
appeal might be saved by indulging the presumption
which the Court makes. It is more important that constitutional decisions be reserved until the issues calling
for them are squarely and inescapably presented, factually
as well as legally, than it is to expedite the termination of
litigation or the procedural convenience of the parties.

