OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Syllabus.

RICE

ET AL. v.

NO. 470.

331 U. S.

SANTA FE ELEVATOR CORP.

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE SEVENTH CIRCUIT.*

Argued February 13, 14, 1947.-Decided May 5, 1947.
1. By the 1931 amendments to §§ 6 and 29 of the United States
Warehouse Act, Congress terminated the dual system of regulation
provided by the original Act and substituted an exclusive system
of federal regulation of warehouses licensed under the Federal Act
with reference to the subjects covered thereby, except to the extent
that express exceptions in the Federal Act subject certain phases of
the business to state regulation. Pp. 229-236, p. 234, n. 12.
2. Warehouses licensed under the United States Warehouse Act need
not obtain state licenses or comply with state laws regulating those
phases of the business which are regulated under the Federal Act,
except those phases of the business which the Federal Act expressly
subjects to state law. Pp. 234-236, p. 234, n. 12.
3. As amended, the Federal Act is not merely paramount over state
law in the event of conflict, but completely supersedes the state
law, except to the extent that it fails to cover the field or makes
express exceptions in favor of state law. Pp. 234-236, p. 234, n. 12.
4. The test of applicability of state laws is whether the matter on
which the State asserts the right to act is in any way regulated
by the Federal Act. If it is, the federal scheme prevails though it
is a more modest, less pervasive regulatory plan than that of the
State. P. 236.
5. By this test, each of the following matters is beyond the reach of
state law, since Congress has declared its policy with reference to
them in the United States Warehouse Act (p. 236):
(1) Just and reasonable rates. Pp. 224, 236.
(2) Discrimination. Pp. 225, 236.
(3) Dual position of warehousemen. Pp. 225, 236.
(4) Mixing high quality public grain with inferior grain owned
by warehouseman, delay in loading grain. Pp. 226, 236.
(5) Sacrificing or rebating storage charges, retaining desirable
transit tonnage, utilizing preferred storage space. Pp. 227, 236.
*Together with No. 472, Illinois Commerce Commission et al. v.
Santa Fe Elevator Corp. et al., also on certiorari to the same Court.

RICE v. SANTA FE ELEVATOR CORP.
218

219

Statement of the Case.

(6) Maintenance of unsafe and inadequate elevators; inadequate
and inefficient warehouse service. Pp. 227, 236.
(7) Operating without a state license. Pp. 228, 236.
(8) Abandonment of warehousing service. Pp. 228, 236.
(9) Failure to file and publish rate schedules; rendering warehousing service without filing and publishing schedules. Pp.
229,236.
6. In the absence of any actual conflict with the Federal Act, the
states are free to continue to regulate matters which are not
regulated by the Federal Act, e. g.:
(1) Failure to secure prior approval of state officials for
management, construction, engineering, supply, financial and other
contracts between the warehouseman and its affiliates. P. 236.
(2) Failure to secure prior approval of contracts and leases
between the warehouseman and other public utilities. Pp. 236-237.
(3) Failure to secure approval of issuance of securities. Pp.
236-237.
156 F. 2d 33, affirmed in part, reversed in part.

A district court dismissed suits brought by a warehouseman licensed under the United States Warehouse

Act to enjoin further proceedings on a complaint filed by
one of his customers with the Illinois Commerce Commission alleging violations of the Illinois Public Utilities

Act, Ill. Rev. Stats. 1945, ch. 111 2/3, the Illinois Grain
Warehouse Act, Ill. Rev. Stats. 1945, ch. 114, §§ 189 et
seq., and Art. XIII of the Illinois Constitution, and to

enjoin the Attorney General of Illinois from instituting
proceedings against the warehouseman to enforce any
order of the Commission in the matter.

The Circuit

Court of Appeals reversed, on the ground that the United
States Warehouse Act superseded state regulation of
warehousemen licensed thereunder as to the matters pre-

sented in the complaint.
granted certiorari.

156 F. 2d 33.

329 U. S. 701.

This Court

The writs were dis-

missed as to certain parties including the Great Lakes Elevator Corporation.

330 U. S. 810.

versed in part and remanded,p. 238.
755552 0-48-18

Affirmed in part, re-

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

Lee A. Freeman argued the cause and filed a brief for
petitioners in No. 470.
William C. Wines, Assistant Attorney General of Illinois, argued the cause for petitioners in No. 472. With
him on the brief was George F. Barrett, Attorney
General.
Leo F. Tierney argued the cause for respondents. With
him on the brief were Ferre C. Watkins, Charles F.
Meyers, Floyd E. Thompson, Frederick Mayer, Carl
Meyer and Louis A. Kohn.
Acting Solicitor General Washington, Assistant Attorney General Berge, Robert C. Barnard, W. Carroll
Hunter and Lewis A. Sigler filed a brief for the United
States, as amicus curiae,urging affirmance.
Opinion of the Court by MR.
nounced by MR. JUSTICE BLACK.

JUSTICE DOUGLAS,

an-

Respondents in these two cases are warehousemen engaged in the business of operating public warehouses for
the storage of grain in Illinois. Their warehouses are
operated under licenses issued by the Secretary of Agriculture pursuant to the United States Warehouse Act, 39
Stat. 486, as amended, 7 U. S. C. § 241 et seq. The Rice
partnership, one of the petitioners, is an owner, shipper,
and dealer in grain and is a customer of respondents. The
Illinois Commerce Commission, another petitioner, has
certain regulatory jurisdiction, to which we will later
refer, over public grain warehouses and other public utility
companies.
In 1944 Rice filed a complaint with the Commission,
charging respondents' with maintaining unjust, unreason-

"The Chicago Board of Trade was also joined as a defendant in the
proceedings before the Illinois Commerce Commission. The issues

RICE v. SANTA FE ELEVATOR CORP.
218

221

Opinion of the Court.

able, and excessive rates and charges contrary to the Illinois Public Utilities Act, Ill. Rev. Stats. 1945, ch. 111 2/3.
It charged them with discrimination in storage rates in
favor of the Federal Government and its agencies and
against other customers, contrary to the Public Utilities
Act and the Illinois Grain Warehouse Act, Ill. Rev. Stats.
1945, ch. 114, § 189 et seq. It alleged that respondents
were both warehousemen and dealers in grain and by
reason of those dual and conflicting positions had received
undue preferences and advantages to the detriment of and
in discrimination against petitioners and other customers
of respondents,' all in violation of provisions of the
Public Utilities Act, the Grain Warehouse Act, or the
Illinois Constitution of 1870, Article XIII. It charged
respondents with having failed to provide reasonable,
safe, and adequate public grain warehouse service
and facilities, with issuing securities, with abandoning
service, and with entering into various contracts with
raised concerning it are considered in the companion cases decided
this day, Rice v. Board of Trade, and Illinois Commerce Commission v.
Board of Trade, post, p. 247.
2 The preferences were alleged to have arisen from the practice of
respondents in "(a) Mixing high quality public grain with inferior
grain owned or acquired by the defendant warehouseman to reduce
grain delivered to the point of minimum quality within the established
grain trade [sic]. (b) Sacrificing part of storage charges to offset
purchases and sales of grain and otherwise manipulating and rebating
storage charges on grain stored in private warehouse space. (c) Furnishing transit tonnage to owners of public grain of the most undesirable type, while withholding for their own use the most desirable
transit tonnage, thereby placing the owners of public grain at a distinct
disadvantage in merchandising grain in storage. (d) Providing for
storage of public grain in old wooden warehouses carrying exorbitant
insurance premium rates, while storing the warehousemen's own grain
in modern warehouses with reasonable insurance premium rates.
(e) Unduly and imprudently delaying loading of grain after return of
warehouse receipt issued by the particular warehouseman, the tender
of proper charges and the receipt of instructions to load grain for
delivery."

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

their affiliates without prior approval of the Commission;
with rendering storage and warehousing services without
having filed and published their rates; with operating
without a state license; and with mixing public grain with
grains of different grades-all in violation of provisions
of the Public Utilities Act or the Grain Warehouse Act.
Among the remedies sought were the fixing of just, reasonable, and non-discriminatory rates, the prohibition of unlawful discriminatory practices, the establishment of
reasonable, safe and adequate storage and warehousing
service, and the assessment of penalties for violations of
Illinois law, including the cancellation of grain warehouse
licenses.
Respondents moved to dismiss on the ground that the
United States Warehouse Act superseded the authority
of the Commission to regulate in the manner sought by
the complaint. The Commission denied the motion and
set the cause for a hearing on the merits. Thereupon
respondents brought these suits in the District Court to
enjoin further proceedings before the Commission and
to enjoin the Attorney General of Illinois from instituting any proceedings against respondents to enforce any
order of the Commission in the matter. Motions of petitioners to dismiss were granted. On appeal the Circuit
Court of Appeals reversed, holding that the United States
Warehouse Act superseded state regulation of respondents
as to the matters presented in petitioners' complaint.' 156
F. 2d 33. The cases are here on petitions for writs of certiorari which we granted because of the public importance
of the questions presented.
The United States Warehouse Act, as originally enacted
in 1916 (39 Stat. 486), made federal regulation in this
field subservient to state regulation. It provided in § 29
that "nothing in this Act shall be construed to conflict
3 Accord:

In re FarmersCo-op. Assn., 69 S. D. 191, 8 N. W. 2d 557.

RICE v. SANTA FE ELEVATOR CORP.
218

223

Opinion of the Court.

with, or to authorize any conflict with, or in any way to
impair or limit the effect or operation of the laws of any
State relating to warehouses, warehousemen . . . ." And
§ 6 required an applicant for a federal warehouse license
to provide a bond "to secure the faithful performance of
his obligations as a warehouseman" under state as well
as under federal law.
In 1931 Congress amended the Act. 46 Stat. 1463.
Section 29 was amended' to provide that although the
4 The Secretary of Agriculture who recommended the 1931 amendment to § 29 gave the following reasons:
"The amendment suggested relative to section 29 aims to make the
Federal warehouse act independent of any State legislation on the
subject. As the law now reads, it can be nullified by State legislation. There are conflicts at present between the State laws and the
Federal act. For instance, under certain State laws warehousemen are
permitted to ship the products from their warehouses to a terminal
or other warehouse while the receipts are outstanding. The prime
purpose of the Federal warehouse act is to make it possible to finance,
properly, agricultural products while in storage. No banker can
safely loan on a warehouse receipt representing a product to be in a
certain warehouse when, as a matter of fact, it may be moved under
authority of State law to some other and distant warehouse. The
Federal warehouse act, as now worded, specifically prohibits removal
of the product prior to the return of the receipts. This department
emphatically believes that this requirement of the Federal act is sound
and the banking fraternity generally shares that same feeling. It is at
once apparent to you, of course, that if the Federal act may be nullified by State laws with respect to a feature as important as this that
the value of Federal warehouse receipts might be destroyed. For that
reason, then, we have suggested amending section 29 so as to make the
Federal warehouse act independent of any State legislation on
warehousing."
Hearing before Senate Committee on Agriculture and Forestry on
H. R. 7, 71st Cong., 3d Sess., p. 10. And see id., pp. 22-26.
Independent Gin & W. Co. v. Dunwoody, 40 F. 2d 1, arose under
the law as originally enacted. It was a suit brought by warehousemen,
who were licensed under the Federal Act, to enjoin officials of Alabama
from enforcing provisions of Alabama warehouse law. These were

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

Secretary of Agriculture "is authorized to cooperate with
State officials charged with the enforcement of State laws
relating to warehouses, warehousemen," and their personnel, "the power, jurisdiction, and authority conferred
upon the Secretary of Agriculture under this Act shall
be exclusive with respect to all persons securing a license
hereunder so long as said license remains in effect." Section 6 was amended to omit the requirement that the
bond be conditioned on compliance with requirements of
state law.
First. The chief matters which are the basis of the complaint before the Commission are treated as follows by the
Illinois law and by the Federal Act:
(1) Just and reasonable rates. The complaint charges
that respondents' rates are unjust and unreasonable.
Under the Illinois statute public utility rates must be
just and reasonable; and the Commission after a hearing
may fix rates which meet that standard. §§ 32, 36, 41,
Public Utilities Act. The Secretary of Agriculture is authorized by the Federal Act to license warehousemen' on
condition that they conform to the requirements of the
Act and the rules and regulations prescribed thereunder.'
§§ 4, 9. Every receipt of a licensed warehouse must disclose "the rate of storage charges." § 18 (e). Before a
license is granted the applicant must file his proposed
rates with the Secretary. Reg. 5, § 3. He must also file
provisions requiring payment of a graduated license or privilege tax,
for the giving of a bond, for the obtaining of a license and for submission to state regulation concerning the suitability and adequacy of the
warehouse structure, the character of records to be kept, the inspection,
of the warehouse buildings and the audit of the books. Agr. Code
Ala. 1927, §§ 388-407. The Federal Act was construed not to exclude
such state regulation.
5 Section 2 of the Act includes in the definition of "warehouse" every
building "in which any agricultural product is or may be stored for
interstate or foreign commerce . .. ."
6 The regulations are contained in 7 C. F. R., Part 102.

RICE v. SANTA FE ELEVATOR CORP.
218

225

Opinion of the Court.

any proposed changes in rates before making them effective. Id. Rates which are "unreasonable or exorbitant"
are prohibited. Id. And the Secretary may, after hearing, suspend or revoke the license if "unreasonable or
exorbitant charges have been made for services rendered."
§ 25; Reg. 2, § 7.
(2) Discrimination. The complaint alleges that respondents discriminate against the public and in favor of
the Federal Government and its agencies by granting the
latter preferential storage rates. The power of the
Illinois Commission to fix rates, to which we have referred,
includes the power to eliminate discriminatory rates. And
see Grain Warehouse Act § 15. The Federal Act requires
the publication and disclosure of licensed warehousemen's
rates, as we have seen. Section 13 of the Federal Act
makes it the duty of a licensed warehouseman to receive
agricultural products for storage "in the usual manner in
the ordinary and usual course of business, without making
any discrimination between persons desiring to avail themselves of warehouse facilities." And by § 25 the Secretary
is granted authority to suspend or revoke any license
of a warehouseman "for any violation of or failure to
comply with any provision of this Act . ...
(3) Dual position of warehousemen. The complaint
charged violations of Illinois law by acts of respondents
in storing and dealing in their own grain while storing grain
for the public. See Hannahv. People, 198 Ill. 77, 64 N. E.
776. The Federal Act requires every receipt issued for
agricultural products by a licensed warehouseman to disclose "if the receipt be issued for agricultural products of
which the warehouseman is owner, either solely or jointly
or in common with others, the fact of such ownership . . . ." § 18 (i). In addition, the receipts for grain
must contain "inevent the relationship existing between
the warehouseman and any depositor is not that of strictly
disinterested custodianship, a statement setting forth the

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

actual relationship . . . ." Reg. 4, § 1 (a) (3). Moreover, § 5a (7) of the Commodity Exchange Act, 49
Stat. 1491, 1498, 7 U. S. C. § 7a (7) provides that receipts issued under the United States Warehouse Act
"shall be accepted in satisfaction of any futures contract . . . without discrimination and notwithstanding
that the warehouseman issuing such receipts is not also
licensed as a warehouseman under the laws of any State
or enjoys other or different privileges than under State
law

....

"

(4) Mixing high quality public grain with inferior grain
owned by respondents, delay in loading grain. The complaint charges that these practices' are part of the abuses
flowing from the conflicting positions of respondents as
public grain warehousemen and dealers in grain. They
are alleged to violate the rule of Hannahv. People, supra,
and provisions of the Public Utilities Act which prohibit
any preference or advantage to any person and which disallow any act of prejudice or disadvantage to any person.
§ 38. And see Grain Warehouse Act § 17. Section
13 of the Federal Act, as we have seen, provides that
every licensed warehouseman "shall receive for storage"
any agricultural product "without making any discrimination between persons desiring to avail themselves of warehouse facilities." Section 15 provides for the inspection
and grading of fungible agricultural products by federal
inspectors. Section 16 permits licensed warehousemen
"if authorized by agreement or by custom" to mingle
fungible products with other products "of the same kind
and grade." Section 16 likewise prohibits the mixing of
fungible products "of different grades." 8 Section 30 provides fine and imprisonment for any person who fraudSee note 2, supra.
8 The regulations promulgated under the Federal Act implement
these provisions. Reg. 5, § 12 provides that licensed warehousemen
shall accept grain for storage and deliver grain out of storage in ac-

RICE v. SANTA FE ELEVATOR CORP.
218

227

Opinion of the Court.

ulently classifies, grades, or weighs any agricultural product stored under the provisions of the Act. Section 21
provides that a warehouseman in absence of some lawful
excuse shall deliver "without unnecessary delay" the
stored products on proper demand.
(5) Sacrificing or rebating storage charges, retaining
desirable transit tonnage, utilizing preferred storage space.
These practices, charged in the complaint,' are alleged to
be other manifestations of the evils of a public warehouseman also being a dealer in grain. They are said to be violative of the principles announced in CentralElevator Co.
v. People, 174 Ill. 203, 208-209, 51 N. E. 254, 256. And
these practices are said to be acts of prejudice or disadvantage outlawed by § 38 of the Public Utilities Act which
we have already mentioned. On the other hand, the Federal Act, as we have seen, requires every licensed warehouseman to "receive for storage" any agricultural
product "without making any discrimination between
persons desiring to avail themselves of warehouse facilities." § 13.
(6) Maintenance of unsafe and inadequate elevators;
inadequate and inefficient warehouse service. The complaint alleges that as a result of these practices fire insurance premiums have become exorbitant and prohibitive;
that owners of grain have suffered damages due to the deterioration of grain. The Illinois Commission is granted
bioad powers over the maintenance of facilities which are
adequate and efficient (§ § 32, 49, Public Utilities Act) including the power to order the making of additions, extencordance with the grades of such grain determined by a federal
inspector. Reg. 5, § 16 provides that such warehousemen shall
deliver to the lawful holder of a receipt grain of the grade and quantity named in the receipt. Reg. 5, § 18 provides that grain of different grades may not be mixed except, inter alia, when the identity of
the grain to be stored is to be preserved.
9 See note 2, supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

sions, repairs, improvements, or changes. Id., § 50. By
§ 3 of the Federal Act the Secretary of Agriculture is
authorized "to determine whether warehouses for which
licenses are applied for or have been issued under this Act
are suitable for the proper storage of any agricultural
product . . . ." Section 3 also grants the Secretary authority to prescribe the duties of warehousemen "with
respect to their care of and responsibility for agricultural
products stored" in licensed warehouses." No license will
be granted if the warehouse is found "not suitable for the
proper storage of grain." Reg. 2, § 5. Every warehouseman must exercise "such care in regard to grain in his
custody as a reasonably careful owner would exercise under
the same circumstances and conditions." Reg. 5, § 8.
Every warehouseman must keep "his warehouse reasonably clean at all times and free from straw, rubbish, or
accumulations of materials that will increase the fire hazard or interfere with the handling of grain." Reg. 5,

§ 15.
(7) Operating without a state license. The complaint
charges that respondents may not lawfully operate without
a license from Illinois. See Grain Warehouse Act § 3.
The Federal Act gives the Secretary of Agriculture authority to issue licenses on terms and conditions specified.
§§ 3,4,5.
(8) Abandonment of warehousing service. The complaint alleges that respondents have abandoned services
without consent of the Illinois commission. Approval
of the Commission to abandon or discontinue service is
required. § 49a, Public Utilities Act. Licenses issued
under the Federal Act "shall terminate as therein [§§ 4, 9]
10 And see § 23 requiring reports to the Secretary "concerning such

warehouse and the condition, contents, operation, and business thereof"
and providing that the licensee "shall conduct said warehouse in all
other respects in compliance with this Act and the rules and regulations
made hereunder."

RICE v. SANTA FE ELEVATOR CORP.
218

229

Opinion of the Court.

provided, or in accordance with the terms of this Act and
the regulations thereunder . . . ." § 5. By § 25 the Secretary is authorized to suspend or revoke a license for any
violation of the Act or the regulations. Among the
grounds for revocation specified in the regulations is
ceasing to conduct the licensed warehouse. Reg. 2, § 7.
(9) Failure to file and publish rate schedules; rendering warehousing service without filing and publishing
schedules. These matters, charged in the complaint, are
regulated by §§ 33 and 35 of the Public Utilities Act.
Under the Federal Act a warehouseman must file his rate
schedules before a license issues; proposed changes in them
must be filed before made; the current schedule of charges
must be posted in a conspicuous place in the principal
office where receipts issued by the warehouseman are
delivered to the public. Reg. 5, § 3; Reg. 2, § 6.
As we have seen, Congress in 1931 made the "power,
jurisdiction, and authority" of the Secretary of Agriculture conferred by the Act "exclusive with respect
to all persons securing a license" under the Act, so
long as the license remains in effect. It is argued
by respondents that § 29 should be construed to mean
that the subjects which the Secretary's authority touches
may not be regulated in any way by any state agency,
though the scope of federal regulation is not as broad
as the regulatory scheme of the State and even though
there is or may be no necessary conflict between what
the state agency and the federal agency do. On the
other hand, petitioners argue that since the area taken
over by the Federal Government is limited, the rest may
be occupied by the States; that state regulation should
not give way unless there is a precise coincidence of regulation or an irreconcilable conflict between the two.
It is clear that since warehouses engaged in the storage
of grain for interstate or foreign commerce are in the
federal domain, United States v. Hastings, 296 U. S. 188,

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

Congress may, if it chooses, take unto itself all regulatory
authority over them (see New York Central R. Co. v.
New York & Pa. Co., 271 U. S. 124), share the task with
the States, or adopt as federal policy the state scheme
of regulation. See PrudentialIns. Co. v. Benjamin, 328
U. S. 408, 430-436. The question in each case is what
the purpose of Congress was.
Congress legislated here in a field which the States
have traditionally occupied. See Munn v. Illinois, 94
U. S. 113; Davies Warehouse Co. v. Bowles, 321 U. S. 144,
148-149. So we start with the assumption that the historic police powers of the States were not to be superseded
by the Federal Act unless that was the clear and manifest
purpose of Congress. Napier v. Atlantic Coast Line R.
Co., 272 U. S. 605, 611; Allen-Bradley Local v. Wisconsin
Employment Board, 315 U. S. 740, 749. Such a purpose
may be evidenced in several ways. The scheme of federal regulation may be so pervasive as to make reasonable
the inference that Congress left no room for the States to
supplement it. Pennsylvania R. Co. v. Public Service
Comm'n, 250 U. S. 566, 569; Cloverleaf Butter Co. v. Patterson, 315 U. S. 148. Or the Act of Congress may touch
a field in which the federal interest is so dominant that
the federal system will be assumed to preclude enforcement of state laws on the same subject. Hines v. Davidowitz, 312 U. S. 52. Likewise, the object sought to be
obtained by the federal law and the character of obligations imposed by it may reveal the same purpose. Southern R. Co. v. RailroadCommission, 236 U. S. 439; Charleston & W. C. R. Co. v. Varnville Co., 237 U. S. 597; New
York Central R. Co. v. Winfield, 244 U. S. 147; Napier v.
Atlantic Coast Line R. Co., supra. Or the state policy
may produce a result inconsistent with the objective of
the federal statute. Hill v. Florida,325 U. S. 538. It is
often a perplexing question whether Congress has precluded state action or by the choice of selective regulatory

RICE v. SANTA FE ELEVATOR CORP.
218

231

Opinion of the Court.

measures has left the police power of the States undisturbed except as the state and federal regulations collide.
Townsend v. Yeomans, 301 U. S. 441; Kelly v. Washington, 302 U. S. 1; South CarolinaHighway Dept. v. Barnwell Bros., 303 U. S. 177; Union Brokerage Co. v. Jensen,
322 U. S. 202.
A forceful argument is made here for the view that the
Illinois regulatory scheme should be allowed to supplement the Federal Act and that the Illinois Commission
should not be prevented from acting on any of the matters
covered by Rice's complaint, unless what the Commission
does runs counter in fact to the federal policy. That is
to say, the actual operation of the state system may be
harmonious with the "measure of control" over warehousemen which the Federal Act imposes. Federal Compress Co. v. McLean, 291 U. S. 17, 23. That, it is said,
can only be determined after the Illinois Commission has
acted.
That argument is illustrated in several ways.
The
Illinois Commission may fix rates; the Secretary of Agriculture cannot. He may, to be sure, suspend or revoke
licenses if unreasonable or exorbitant charges are made.
If the Commission fixes unreasonable or exorbitant rates,
there will be a conflict with the Federal Act and the state
rate order must fall. But until it is known what the Commission will do, no conflict with the Federal Act can be
shown. If indeed it reduces rates, as may be presumed,
no conflict with the Federal Act will likely exist. Another
illustration concerns the dual position of the warehousemen. It is pointed out that all the Federal Act requires
is disclosure; that the more basic state policy of uprooting
the practice of public warehousemen storing and dealing
in their own grain is not inconsistent with the federal
policy of disclosure. Another illustration relates to the
preferential and discriminatory practices in connection
with the rebate of storage charges, retention of desirable

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

transit tonnage, and the utilization of preferred storage
space. All the Federal Act requires is that warehousemen
receive products for storage without making discriminations between persons. What the Illinois Commission
promulgates or requires, if the proceedings before it are
allowed to go ahead, might indeed strengthen and bolster
the federal regulatory scheme and in no way dilute, impair or oppose it. Such reasoning could be applied to
each of the nine charges which we have summarized, even
including, perhaps, the requirements for a state license
and the filing and publishing of rate schedules. See
Union Brokerage Co. v. Jensen, supra.
At first blush that construction of the Federal Act
has great plausibility. It preserves intact the federal
system of warehouse regulation, leaves the State free to
protect local interests, and strikes down state power only
in case what the State does in fact dilutes or diminishes
the federal program.
But the special and peculiar history of the Warehouse
Act indicates to us that such a construction would thwart
the federal policy which Congress adopted when it
amended the Act in 1931. Prior to that time, as we
have pointed out, the Federal Act by reason of its express terms had been subservient to state laws relating to
warehouses and warehousemen. Congress in 1931 found
that condition unfavorable and undertook to change it.
If Congress had done no more than to eliminate from
§ 29 the language which resulted in the Act's subservience,
there would be a strong case for holding that state regulatory systems were not to be affected unless they collided
with the Act. That construction would receive reinforcement from the provision in § 29 that the Secretary
"is authorized to cooperate with State officials charged
with the enforcement of State laws" relating to warehouses
and warehousemen. Cf. Union Brokerage Co. v. Jensen,

RICE v. SANTA FE ELEVATOR CORP.
218

233

Opinion of the Court.

supra, p. 209. But Congress did not choose that simple
expedient. It went further and added to § 29 the mandatory words "the power, jurisdiction, and authority" of
the Secretary conferred under the Act "shall be exclusive
with respect to all persons" licensed under the Act. And
the original provisions of § 6 requiring a bond from
licensees securing the faithful performance of their obligations as warehousemen under state law were deleted.
These actions were explained in the Committee Reports.
The previous subservience of the Act to state law was
said to have militated "against the full value of Federal
warehouse receipts for collateral purposes." '" S. Rep. No.
1775, 71st Cong., 3d Sess., p. 2. The amendment to § 6
followed "naturally" the revision of § 29. Id. The
amendment to § 29 was designed to make "the Federal act
independent of State laws" and to "place the Federal act
on its own bottom." Id. While a warehouseman need
not operate under the Act, if he chose to be licensed
under it, he would then "be authorized to operate without
regard to State acts and be solely responsible to the Federal act." Id. Warehousemen, having made their choice
11The Senate Report also stated, p. 2:
"Bankers have repeatedly pointed out that this section of the warehouse act is its weakest feature. This amendment will clarify and
remove many uncertainties from the credit man's viewpoint. As the
law now reads, for fear the Federal act may be negatived by State
legislation or regulation, a banker is obliged to follow closely the laws
of the 48 different States, the regulations thereunder, and the administrative rulings thereunder. This is an impossible task. The suggested amendment will place the Federal act independent of State acts
and should enhance the value of receipts for collateral purposes."
And see H. R. Rep. No. 4, 71st Cong., 1st Sess. As stated in
note 4, supra, the amendment was recommended by the Secretary of
Agriculture "so as to make the Federal warehouse act independent
of any State legislation on warehousing."

234

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

to operate under state or federal law, should "then be
permitted to operate without interference on the part
of any agency." Id., pp. 2-3. Or, as stated by the House
Committee, the purpose of the amendment to § 29 was
to make the Act "independent of any State legislation on
the subject." H. R. Rep. No. 2314, 70th Cong., 2d Sess.,
p. 4.
That is strong language. It makes unambiguous what
was meant by the deletion from § 6 of any requirement
that federal licensees comply with state laws regulating
warehousemen. It makes clear the significance to be attached to the special wording of § 29. The amendments
to § 6 and § 29, read in light of the Committee Reports,
say to us in plain terms that a licensee under the Federal
Act can do business "without regard to State acts"; that
the matters regulated by the Federal Act cannot be regulated by the States; that on those matters a federal licensee (so far as his interstate or foreign commerce activities are concerned) is subject to regulation by one agency
and by one agency alone. 2 That is to say, Congress did
more than make the Federal Act paramount over state law
in the event of conflict. It remedied the difficulties which
had been encountered in the Act's administration by terminating the dual system of regulation. Cf. First Iowa
Hydro-Electric Coop. v. Federal Power Commission, 328
U. S. 152. As stated by the Supreme Court of South
Dakota, warehousemen electing to come under the Federal Act need serve but one master, and that one the
federal agency. In re Farmers Cooperative Assn., 69 S. D.
p. 202, 8 N. W. 2d p. 562. The cooperation which the
Secretary was authorized to undertake with state officials
was cooperation in harmonizing the exclusively federal
and the exclusively state systems of regulation.
That is, of course, subject to those express exceptions in the Warehouse Act which subject phases of the business to state law. See e. g.,
§§ 18 and 20.
12

RICE v. SANTA FE ELEVATOR CORP.
218

235

Opinion of the Court.

In this view of the Act, Congress formulated a policy on
numerous phases of the warehouse business." The policy
on rates was not the fixing of them but control over them
through issuance, suspension, or revocation of licenses.
Dual or conflicting positions of warehousemen were regulated by disclosure, by general prohibitions against discrimination between customers, by control over the license.
Unsafe and inadequate warehouses were protected by the
power of the Secretary to determine whether the warehouses of applicants or licensees were suitable. Mixing of
grain was authorized under specified conditions and prohibited under others. On each of the nine matters charged
in the complaint and listed above Congress legislated.
And as we read the Act, Congress in effect said that the
policy which it adopted in each of the nine was exclusive
13

The basic program reflected in the Act was described in H. R. Rep.
No. 60, 64th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 1, as follows:
"The outbreak of the European war emphasized the fact that the
farm marketing machinery of this country is seriously weak, insufficient, and inadequate-a condition which already had been more or
less recognized by students of farm economics. From a very thorough
study of our system of marketing there will appear: (1) A lack of
adequate storage facilities; (2) a lack of proper control and regulation
of such storage systems as exist; (3) an absence of uniformity in their
methods of operation and the form of receipts issued; (4) a multiplicity' of standards for grading and classification, or in some cases an
entire absence of such standards for grading and classification; (5) a
lack of disinterested graders, classifiers, and weighers; (6) a lack of
proper relationship between the storage and banking systems of the
country.
"The inauguration under this bill of a permissive system of warehouses licensed and bonded under authority of the Federal Government for the storage of staple and nonperishable agricultural products
upon which uniform receipts may be issued, the weights and grades
of the products specified therein having been previously determined
by licensed weighers and graders in accordance with Government
standards, would go far in the direction of standardizing warehouse
construction, storage conditions, insurance, accounting, financing, and
the handling and marketing of farm products."
755552 0-48-19

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

of all others; and that if a licensed warehouseman complied with each requirement, he did all that he need do.
He could not be required by a State to do more or additional things or conform to added regulations, even though
they in no way conflicted with what was demanded of him
under the Federal Act. We recently noted that Congress
can act so unequivocally as to make clear that it intends
no regulation except its own. Bethlehem Steel Co. v.
New York State Labor Relations Board, 330 U. S. 767.
In these fields Congress has done just that by the 1931
amendments.
Thus, by eliminating dual regulation and substituting
regulation by one agency, Congress sought to achieve "fair
and uniform business practices" which, as noted in Federal
Compress Co. v. McLean, supra, p. 23, was the purpose of
the amended Act.
The test, therefore, is whether the matter on which the
State asserts the right to act is in any way regulated by the
Federal Act. If it is, the federal scheme prevails though it
is a more modest, less pervasive regulatory plan than that
of the State. By that test each of the nine matters we
have listed is beyond the reach of the Illinois Commission,
since on each one Congress has declared its policy in the
Warehouse Act. The provisions of Illinois law on those
subjects must therefore give way by virtue of the Supremacy Clause. U. S. Const., Art. VI, Cl. 2.
Second. There were matters, other than those we have
mentioned, which were charged in the complaint before
the Commission.
(1) Failure to secure prior approval of the Illinois Commission for management, construction, engineering, supply, financial and other contracts between respondents and
affiliates. Such approval is said to be required by § 8 (a)
(3) of the Public Utilities Act.

RICE v. SANTA FE ELEVATOR CORP.
218

237

Opinion of the Court.

(2) Failure to secure prior approval of contracts and
leases between respondents and other public utilities.
Such approval is said to be required by § 27 of the Public
Utilities Act.
(3) Failure to secure approval of issuance of securities
payable at periods of more than twelve months after date.
Such approval is said to be required by § 21 of the Public
Utilities Act.
These regulatory measures, it is said, are designed to
prevent unwarranted drains on utility funds or the creation of unsound financial structures which would affect
the ability of warehousemen to render adequate service
at reasonable rates.
The United States Warehouse Act contains no provisions relating expressly to these three matters. And we
are told that the Secretary of Agriculture has made no attempt to exercise any jurisdiction over them. But possibilities of conflict and repugnancy are conjured up. It is
stated, for example, that the Secretary might determine
that a warehouseman could not offer suitable warehouse
service without an addition to his warehouse, that the financing of an addition might require the warehouseman to
issue securities, that state disapproval of the issue might
prevent the licensee from making the required additions.
But it will be time to consider such asserted conflicts between the State and Federal Acts when and if they arise.
Any such objections are at this stage premature. Congress has not foreclosed state action by adopting a policy of
its own on these matters. Into these fields it has not
moved. By nothing that it has done has it preempted
those areas. And see Federal Compress Co. v. McLean,
supra, p. 23. In more ambiguous situations than this we
have refused to hold that state regulation was superseded
by a federal law. Penn Dairies, Inc. v. Milk Control
Commission,318 U. S. 261.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

331 U. S.

We accordingly affirm in part and reverse in part the
judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals and remand the
cause to the District Court for proceedings in conformity
with this opinion.
So ordered.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER,
RUTLEDGE

with whom MR.

JUSTICE

concurs, dissenting.

More than seventy years ago this Court upheld the regulation of grain warehousing rates by Illinois and did so
despite the relation of the great grain elevators to interstate commerce. Munn v. Illinois, 94 U. S. 113; and see
Budd v. New York, 143 U. S. 517. State regulation of
grain elevators had become so much part of our economic
and political fabric, and so important was it deemed that
the State laws remain in full force, that when Congress,
in 1916, passed the first Warehouse Act (Part C of the
Act of August 11, 1916, 39 Stat. 446, 486), it made that
Act subordinate to the requirements of State laws. The
Court now holds that by the 1931 Amendment to that
Act, 46 Stat. 1463, Congress not only made the federal
legislation independent of State law to the full scope of
federal regulation, but also nullified the extensive network of State laws regulating warehouses, even though
such laws, in their actual operation, in nowise conflict with
the operation of the federal law. The Court thereby uproots a vast body of State enactments which in themselves
do not collide with the licensing powers of the Secretary of Agriculture. It does so on the ground that Congress, by the 1931 Amendment, provided that "the power,
jurisdiction, and authority conferred upon the Secretary
of Agriculture under this Act shall be exclusive with
respect to all persons securing a license hereunder so long
as said license remains in effect."

RICE v. SANTA FE ELEVATOR CORP.
218

FRANKFURTER,

239

J., dissenting.

The decision of the case turns on the "power, jurisdiction, and authority" that Congress has deposited with the
Secretary of Agriculture to the exclusion of action by a
State. I could understand, though that is not my view, a
holding that once a warehouseman chooses to obtain a federal license, he is quit of amenability to State law relating to the business of warehousing as such. On the
other hand, the Amendment of 1931 may be read, without
violence to its language, as designed not to displace all
State regulation of warehousing, but merely to prevent
conflict or even concurrence as to the very matters with
which the Secretary of Agriculture can deal. This would
leave State law to operate where it could without impinging on the limited regulatory functions assumed by the
Federal Government. Such is my view. The Court's
conclusion is a kind of admixture of these two views.
Today's decision, apparently, does not altogether free federally licensed warehouses from State warehouse regulation, nor yet subject them to State laws, even though these
State laws may harmoniously function without impinging
on the licensing powers of the Secretary. To my way of
thinking, the justification for conceding an undefined area
to the States equally justifies leaving to the States all that
is not irreconcilable with the full exercise of the licensing
authority given to the Secretary of Agriculture.
The facts of the case are not in dispute. Rice, an owner
and shipper of grain, filed with the Illinois Commerce
Commission a complaint charging respondent warehouse
owners with violations of the Illinois Public Utility Act
(Ill. Rev. Stats. 1945, c. 111-2/3), the Illinois Grain
Warehouse Act (Ill. Rev. Stats. 1945, c. 114 §§ 293-326
(a)), and Art. XIII of the Illinois Constitution. The
violations charged include operation without a State license, exaction of unreasonable rates, failure to publish
rates, failure to provide appropriate facilities, improper

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

331 U. S.

mixing of grades, discrimination in rates, and conflict of
interests as grain-dealer and warehouseman. The respondents moved to dismiss the complaint on the ground
that federal license placed them under the exclusive jurisdiction of the United States Warehouse Act, and the
State's authority was entirely superseded. Upon denial
of this motion by the Illinois Commerce Commission,
respondents applied to the United States District Court
for an injunction against further State proceedings.
What is before us is the ruling of the Circuit Court of
Appeals that the District Court had erred in not granting
the injunction.
This Court now orders the proceedings before the Illinois Commerce Commission to be enjoined, without
knowledge on our part what it is that Illinois would exact
of respondents. It has not yet been decided by the authoritative voice of Illinois law, the Supreme Court of Illinois,
which of her regulatory requirements would survive respect by that Court for the controlling federal Act. This
Court has heretofore acted on the wise rule that it will
not "assume in advance that a State will so construe its
law as to bring it into conflict with the federal Constitution or an act of Congress." Allen-Bradley Local v.
Board, 315 U. S. 740, 746. The suit in the District Court
was, in any event, premature. It should, on familiar
principles, be ordered held in the District Court until the
claim of Illinois may be authoritatively ascertained in the
State courts, thereby perhaps avoiding a claim of conflict
between State and federal legislation. Compare the series
of cases from Thompson v. Magnolia Petroleum Co., 309
U. S. 478, to Spector Motor Co. v. McLaughlin, 323 U. S.
101.
On the merits of the controversy our problem is to determine what freedom to regulate its grain warehouses has
been left to Illinois, after Congress exercised its constitu-

RICE v. SANTA FE ELEVATOR CORP.
218

FRANKFURTER,

241

J., dissenting.

tional power over such warehouses by adopting a licensing
system to be administered by the Secretary of Agriculture
under closely defined authority. Underlying the problem
is the important fact that we are concerned with an economic enterprise which, while it has important radiations
beyond State bounds, does not thereby lose special relations to the State in which it is conducted. And so we
have once more the duty of judicially adjusting the interests of both the Nation and the State, where Congress has
not clearly asserted its power of preemption so as to leave
no doubt that the separate interests of the States are left
wholly to national protection.
The general considerations to be taken into account in
striking a balance, and not to be acknowledged merely platonically, have been indicated in my opinion in Bethlehem
Steel Co. v. New York State Labor Relations Board, 330
U. S.767. Suffice it to say that due regard for our federalism, in its practical operation, favors survival of the
reserved authority of a State over matters that are the
intimate concern of the State unless Congress has clearly
swept the boards of all State authority, or the State's
claim is in unmistakable conflict with what Congress has
ordered.
Assuming that the undefined scope of Illinois law
covers all the relief sought before the Illinois Commission, it is not suggested that there is actual conflict
between the limited federal control through the licensing device and the policy of Illinois. Indeed, it seems to
be admitted that the enforcement of the State Act might
well effectuate, at least in some aspects, the policy of the
federal statute. Moreover, despite a statement in the
House Report that the purpose of the 1931 Amendment
was to make the Act "independent of any State legislation
on the subject" (H. Rep. No. 2314, 70th Cong., 2d Sess.,
p. 4), the Court does not find that in making "the power,

242

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

331 U. S.

jurisdiction, and authority conferred upon the Secretary
of Agriculture . . . exclusive with respect to all persons
securing a license" Congress insulated such licensed warehousemen from further regulation by a State. What the
Court holds is that if Congress has touched a subject matter it becomes untouchable by the State, though there is
neither paper nor operating conflict between federal and
State spheres of authority. Thus, while Congress has not
given to the Secretary of Agriculture rate-fixing power,
Congress, it is said, has inferentially deprived Illinois of
the power she has exercised for seventy years to fix grain
warehouse rates.
I cannot agree. As to rates, for example, Congress
has merely given the Secretary power to revoke a license
if its holder charges "unreasonable or exorbitant" rates.
The practical assumption, I submit, is not that Congress
has put an end to the tried machinery for rate-fixing by the
States without putting another in its place. It is rather
that it would permit its licensing authority to avail itself
of the facilities of the established rate-fixing agencies of the
States and cooperate with them in ascertaining whether
Illinois licensees are charging "unreasonable and exorbitant" rates. Such would be the practicalities of government where both State and Nation have converging yet
separate interests, and such authorized collaboration between national and State governments should be the assumption in construing the Act unless Congress has left no
doubt that it was so bent on avoidance of all possible conflict that it left no room for concert. Indeed, the very
section which confers "exclusive" authority upon the Secretary of Agriculture authorizes him "to cooperate with
State officials charged with the enforcement of State laws
relating to warehouses . . . ." 46 Stat. 1465.
By the United States Warehouse Act, Congress did not
undertake a general, affirmative regulation of warehouses,

RICE v. SANTA FE ELEVATOR CORP.
218

FRANKFURTER,

243

J., dissenting.

even remotely comparable to its regulation of other public
utilities. The Act was initiated as warehouse receipts
legislation, written with the Uniform Warehouse Receipts
Act in mind. Neither the language nor the history of the
1931 Amendment marks a departure from the basic design
and policy of the legislation. Congress did not see fit to
establish a compulsory, uniform, nation-wide system for
the regulation of grain warehouses, essential links though
they be in the chain of interstate commerce. Nor did Congress authorize the Secretary of Agriculture to formulate
and enforce such a system. Even in its limited aspect, the
Act does not apply to all warehouses affecting interstate
commerce. Indeed, Congress exercised no compulsion
over any warehouse. Congress merely offered to those
who desired it the privilege of being a federal licensee.
Anyone who wished might continue to operate as a warehouseman without a federal license. As to these there
is no question but that State law controls. And even
those who obtain a federal license cannot be compelled
to perform any positive duties. Except for certain penalties for fraud, the only sanction for disobedience of the
few duties imposed is loss of the license.
Congress was content to allow two warehousemen in
similar circumstances to operate under different rules if
one chose to seek a federal license and the other did not.
It offered perquisites incident to such a license to a warehouseman who wanted them. Such a scheme does not
persuasively indicate a purpose to free such a federal
licensee from regulations to which others are subject and
which are not in practical conflict with the requirements
of the federal law. For instance, has Congress really expressed with reasonable clarity its purpose to forbid to
the States the fixing of warehouse rates and thus deprive
the States of a long-standing regulatory power which the
United States chose not to assume? Is it not more con-

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

331 U. S.

sistent with a proper regard for the interplay of State
and national interests to assume that Congress was imposing a minimum of regulation for those who accepted
federal licenses rather than to assume that by inferential
sterilization of State laws Congress meant to make its optional and restricted requirements the maximum? The
"power, jurisdiction, and authority" of the Secretary of
Agriculture which after 1931 was to be "exclusive" are
given full and fair scope if made to refer only to powers
that the Secretary can effectively exercise. There is exclusion of State power as to what the Act, substantively
speaking, includes, but not exclusion of a vast potential
field of warehouse regulation, not within the active range
of federal administration, simply because Congress dealt
with a small part of it, and that only conditionally.
Nor is there anything in the history of the federal Act
which requires such destructive consequences to a longstanding body of State enactments. When the 1916 Act
was passed, Congress emphasized the need for State regulation by subordinating federal action to such regulation.
By 1931 forty States had laws regulating warehouses, laws
which at least in some aspect did not conflict with the
powers vested in the Secretary of Agriculture. An impressively large number of States fixed warehouse rates. The
Court now finds in the legislative history of the 1931
Amendment a purpose to wipe out all these regulations as
to the holders of federal licenses.
That Amendment eliminated the subservience of the
federal Act to the laws of the States, for such subservience
really nullified the practical purposes at which Congress
aimed in 1916 by a voluntary federal licensing system.
The purpose was to make "the Federal act independent
of State laws," and to "place the Federal act on its own
bottom." While such language in a Committee Report,
treated merely as words, might be interpreted as an im-

RICE v. SANTA FE ELEVATOR CORP.
218

FRANKFURTER,

245

J., dissenting.

plicit, roughshod decimation of State authority over any
aspect of warehousing which the federal licensing system
touched, howsoever meagerly and indirectly, it is more
consonant with a due regard for federal-State relations to
find that the dominating object of the legislation controls
what was meant by "independent of State laws." For the
dominant object was removal of those matters which were
entrusted to the Secretary of Agriculture from subordination to State action. By saving the authority which it
had given to the Secretary of Agriculture from being rendered futile by State laws, Congress ought not to be held
to have nullified State laws whose continuing force would
not hamper the Secretary of Agriculture in exercising
the powers that Congress gave him. Evidence is lacking that Congress felt that the correction of the inadequacy which had revealed itself regarding the 1916 Act
required withdrawal of federal license holders from the
requirements of non-conflicting State regulation. So long
as full scope can be given to the amendatory legislation
without undermining non-conflicting State laws, nothing
but the clearest expression should persuade us that the
federal Act wiped out State fixation of rates and other
State requirements deeply rooted in their laws. When
neither the mischief at which the 1931 Amendment was
directed, nor the policy, terms and structure of warehousing legislation by Congress in its entirety necessitate it,
disregard of the delicate balance of Federal-State relations
ought not to be attributed to Congress.
If so fundamental a change were designed, it would
normally be reflected in the financial provisions made by
Congress, and in the reports on the administration of the
Act. The appropriations for administering the United
States Warehouse Act show no substantial increase as a
consequence of the 1931 Amendment. For the years pre-

246

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

331 U. S.

ceding and those immediately following the Amendment,
the appropriations were:
1929
1930
1931
1932
1933
1934
1935

(45 Stat. 539, 563) ............... $240, 320
(45 Stat. 1189, 1214) ............. 256, 000
(46 Stat. 392, 419) ............... 241,000
(46 Stat. 1242, 1270) ............. 312, 200
(47 Stat. 609, 638) ............... 313, 020
(47 Stat. 1432, 1460) ............. 296, 220
(48 Stat. 467, 494) ............... 271,383-

Moreover, those charged with the enforcement of the
Act seem to have been unmindful of the far-reaching consequences now imputed to it. The reports of the Secretary of Agriculture, of the Chief of the Bureau of Agricultural Economics, and of the Chief of Agricultural
Marketing Service, for the years after 1931, disclose
administrative attitudes and practices no different from
those of preceding years. No mention is made of the
State laws which, the Court now holds, were superseded
though not conflicting with federal administration. In
citing the advantages incident to a federal license, no
mention appears of so important an item as relief from
existing State regulations.
The history of the federal act shows that at no time
has Congress deemed it desirable to introduce compulsory
uniformity of warehouse regulation. By freeing federal
licensees from overriding State regulation Congress was
not by indirection seeking to create such a uniform system.
But the effect of the interpretation now given to the 1931
Amendment is the establishment of uniformity of nonregulation, in that it introduces laissez faire outside the
very narrow scope of the Secretary's powers. It is easy to
exaggerate the danger of undesirable consequences flowing
*The more substantial increases in appropriation after 1935 seem
to be due to an' increase in the volume of licensing, not to an extension
of the fields of supervision.

RICE v. CHICAGO BOARD OF TRADE.
218

247

Syllabus.

from a rejected construction. But surely one does not
draw on idle fears in suggesting that as a result of today's
decision the gates of escape from deeply rooted State
requirements will be open, although Congress itself
has not authorized federal authority to take over the regulation of such activities and though their State enforcement does not at all conflict with, but rather promotes, the
limited oversight of warehouses thus far assumed by the
Federal Government. The Court displaces settled and
fruitful State authority though it cannot replace it with
federal authority.
RICE ET AL. V. BOARD OF TRADE OF THE CITY
OF CHICAGO.
NO. 471.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE SEVENTH CIRCUIT.*

Argued February 14, 1947.-Decided May 5, 1947.
1. By the Commodity Exchange Act, the United States has not so
occupied and preempted the field of regulation of boards of trade
designated "contract markets" as to deprive the states of authority
to regulate trading in futures, except to the extent that the state
regulations may conflict with the federal regulations. Pp. 250-255.
2. Until a state has adopted applicable rules on the subject, it cannot
be known whether the state regulations will conflict with the federal
regulations and any claim of supersedure is premature. Pp. 255-256.
156 F. 2d 33, reversed.

A district court dismissed complaints seeking to enjoin
proceedings before the Illinois Commerce Commission in
which the Chicago Board of Trade had been joined as a
defendant. The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed. 156
F. 2d 33. This Court granted certiorari. 329 U. S. 701.
Reversed, p. 256.
*Together with No. 473, Illinois Commerce Commission et al. v.
Board of Trade of the City of Chicago, also on certiorari to the same
Court.

