284

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
331 U. S.

Syllabus.

NEW YORK
NO.

343.

ET AL.

APPEAL

FROM

V.

UNITED STATES
THE

DISTRICT

UNITED STATES FOR THE NORTHERN
YORK. *

COURT

ET AL.
OF

THE

DISTRICT OF NEW

Argued March 3, 4, 5, 1947.-Decided May 12, 1947.
1. After finding that the existing class-freight-rate structure discriminates in favor of. the northeastern portion of the United States
and against the southern and western portions contrary to § 3 (1)
of the Interstate Commerce Act, the Interstate Commerce Commission issued an interim order under § 15 (1) increasing class
rates within the northeastern area by 10 per cent and reducing
those elsewhere east of the Rocky Mountains by 10 per cent, pendidg the formulation of a national uniform classification of freight
and effectuation of greater national uniformity in the class-freightrate structure. Held: The order did not exceed the Commission's
authority. Pp. 296-300, 340-349.
(a) Whatever doubt may have existed as to applicability of the
prohibitions of § 3 (1) of the Interstate Commerce Act to regional
discriminations in rates was removed by the 1940 amendment.
P. 300.
(b) The addition of the words "region, district, territory" to
§ 3 (1) did not require national uniformity in rates regardless of
differing costs of the service; but made plain the duty of the Commission, in determining whether discrimination exists, to consider
the interests of regions, districts and territories, and to eliminate
territorial rate differences which are not justified by differences
in territorial conditions. Pp. 300, 305, 350.
2. The basic finding of the Commission-that class rates within
Southern, Southwestern, and Western Trunk-Line Territories, and
from those Territories to Official (northeastern) Territory, are
generally much higher, article for article, than the rates within
Official Territory-is abundantly supported by the evidence. Pp.
301-305.
*Together with No. 344, Hildreth, Governor of the State of Maine,
et al. v. United States et al., and No. 345, Atchison, Topeka & Santa
Fe R. Co. et al. v. United States et al., also on appeals from the same
Court.

NEW YORK v. UNITED STATES.
284

285

Syllabus.

3: An unlawful discrimination in class rates against regions or territories is nnt dependent on a showing ofactual discrimination
against shippers located in such regions or territories or negatived
by the fact that only a minor portion of freight moves by class
rates. Pp. 306-309.
4. The Commission's finding-based upon a broad inquiry into the
effect of class rates on the economic development of Southern,
Southwestern and Western Trumk-Line Territories-that prejudice
to these territories had been established, is supported by substantial evidence. Pp. 310-315.
5. The Commission's finding that conditions peculiar to the respective
territories did not justify the difference in the territbrial class-rate
structure is supported by the evidence. Pp. 315-332.
(a) The Commission's judgment that the differences in consists
between the territories do not justify the present differences in
interterritorial class rates is an expert judgment entitled to great
weight; and this Court could not disturb its findings on the facts
of this record without invading the province reserved for the expert
administrative body. P. 326.
(b) The earning power of the carriers, their freight operating
ratios, their rates of return, the estimate of the volume'of traffic
in the future, and the nature and amount of traffic presently
involved in the class-rate movements are all relevant to the finding
of unlawful discrimination; and this Court cannot say that these
considerations do not counterbalance or outweigh the higher operating costs in the West, since the appraisal of these numerous
factors is for transportation experts and the error of judgment on
their part, if any, is not of the egregious type which is within the
reach of this Court on judicial review. P. 331.
(c) An assumption that a reduction in the western rate structure, which, as compared with the eastern, is not warranted by
territorial conditions and which prejudices the rowth and development of the West, would have no effect in increasing the traffic
of the western carriers would fly in the face of history, is contrary
to the Commission's expert judgment and would protect a dis-'
criminatory rate structure from the power of revision granted the

Commission under § 3 (1). P. 332.
6. Notwithstanding the Commission's finding that less-than-carload
traffic as a whole is carried at a deficit in all territories, except
possibly in the South, this Court will not set aside the order
temporarily reducing the class rates on that traffic-especially in

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Syllabus.

331 U. S.

view of the Commission's findings that such traffic constitutes less
than 2 per cent of the total railroad freight tonnage, that much
of it moves on exception rates and commodity rates instead of
class rates, and that, if less-than-carload rates were left unchanged
while class rates were reduced, the competitive relations between
shippers of less-than-carload quantities and those shipping in carloads would be materially affected. Pp. 332-340.
(a) In eliminating unjust discrimination against entire regions
and establishing the uniformity required by law in a complete rate
structure, the Commission was warranted in making minor collateral readjustments so as to avoid creating new discriminations.
P. 334.
(b) This Court would not be justified in setting aside the Commission's order on the ground that the new less-than-carload rates
are confiscatory-especially in view of the facts that the order is
of an interim nature, this reduction has since been offset by a
nationwide increase in all freight rates, the Commission invited
the carriers to apply promptly for adjustments to insure that the
rates on such traffic are on a compensatory level, and it has not
been clearly shown that the result of the order will be confiscatory.
Pp. 334-340.
(c) If additional evidence was necessary to pass on an issue of
confiscation raised in a petition for rehearing before the Commission but not supported by the introduction of additional evidence
there, the district court should have remanded the cause to the
Commission for a further preliminary expert appraisal of the facts
which bear on that question, instead of receiving the evidence
itself as though it were conducting a trial de novo. Pp. 335-336.
(d) The district court amply protected appellants when it overruled their claim that the interim rates are confiscatory without
prejudice to another suit to challenge the legality of those rates if,
after a fair test, they prove to be below the lowest reaches of a
reasonable minimum or if the permanent rates do not meet that
standard. P. 340.
7. Where the Commission finds that an existing rate results in unlawful discrimination contrary to § 3 (1), it may, under § 15 (1),
prescribe a new rate which will be just and reasonable. Pp. 340343, 345.
(a) It is not prevented from doing so by the fact that all rates
involved in the rate relationship are not controlled by the same
carriers. Pp. 342-343.

NEW YORK v. UNITED STATES.
284

Statement of the Case.

(b) It may take one step at a time and is not required to
eliminate all evils in the rate structure or none. P. 343.
8. In prescribing a 10 per cent increase in class rates in the Northeast,
as part of a general adjustment of the rate structure for all of the
United States east of the Rocky Mountains in order to eliminate
unjust territorial discriminations prohibited by § 3 (1), the Commission did not exceed its authority, even though the existing class
rates in the Northeast were within the zone of reasonableness.
Pp. 343-349.
(a) The Commission having given due consideration, as required
by § 15a (2), to the effect of the rates on the movement of traffic,
the need of adequate and efficient raiway transportation service
at the lowest cost consistent with the furnishing of such service, and
the need of revenues sufficient to enable the carriers to provide
such service, the weight to be given those factors, and especially
the weight to be given the rate of return in current years as opposed
to that in the preceding decade, is for the Commission to determine;
and this Court would usurp the administrative function of the
Commission if it overruled the Commission's judgment and substituted its own appraisal of these factors. Pp. 347-349.
9. The fact that the Commission subsequently granted a nationwide
increase in all freight rates does not render the interim orders
involved in this case obsolete and unenforceable; since the order
granting the rate increase emphasizes the distinction between
revenue and rate-relationship cases and in no way impairs the
finding in the present case that the existing class-rate structure
that has prevailed in the several territories violates § 3 (1). Pp.
349-350.
65 F. Supp. 856, affirmed.

Finding that the existing class-freight-rate structure
discriminates in favor of the northeastern portion of the
United States and against the southern and western portions, contrary to § 3 (1) of the Interstate Commerce Act,
the Interstate Commerce Commission issued interim orders under § 15 (1) increasing class rates in the Northeast
by 10 per cent and reducing those elsewhere east of the
Rocky Mountains by 10 per cent, pending formulation of
a national uniform classification and effectuation of

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Counsel for Parties.

331 U. S.

greater national uniformity in the class-freight-rate structure. In suits by or on behalf of northern and New England States and western railroads to set aside these orders,
the District Court sustained the orders. 65 F. Supp. 856.
Affirmed, p. 351.
Parker McCollester argued the cause for appellants in
No. 343. With him on the brief were Kenneth L. Sater
for the appellant States, Nathaniel L. Goldstein, Attorney
General, and Frank J. Clark for the State of New York,
Clair John Killoran, Attorney General, for the State of
.Delaware, James A. Emmert, Attorney General, and Karl
J. Stipher, Deputy Attorney General, for the State of
Indiana, Hall Hammond, Attorney General, for the State
of Maryland, Foss 0. Eldere, Attorney General, and James
W. Williams, Assistant Attorney General, for the State
of Michigan, Walter D. Van Riper, Attorney General, and
Robert Peacock, Deputy Attorney General, for the State
of New Jersey, Hugh S. Jenkins, Attorney General, for the
State of Ohio, John E. Martin, Attorney General, and
Herbert T. Ferguson, Assistant Attorney General, for the
State of Wisconsin, and James H. Duff, Attorney General,
and E. A. DeLaney, Deputy Attorney General, for the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.
Henry F. Foley argued the cause and filed a brief for
appellants in No. 344.
Douglas F. Smith argued the cause for appellants in
No. 345. With him on the brief were H. C. Barron,C. W.
Fiddes, H. E. Boe, P. F. Gault, G. H. Muckley, Elmer B.
Collins, Carson L. Taylor, Robert Thompson and D. Robert Thomas.
Edward H. Miller argued the cause for the United
States and Daniel W. Knowlton argued the cause for
the Interstate Commerce Commission, appellees. With

NEW YORK v. UNITED STATES.
284

Opinion of the Court.

them on the brief were Acting Solicitor General Washington and Assistant Attorney General Berge.
J. V. Norman argued the cause for the Southern States
and Southern Governors' Conference, appellees.
Byron M. Gray argued the cause for the State of Arkansas et al., appellees. With him on the brief were J. C.
Murray for the State of Arkansas, Walter R. Johnson,
Attorney General, and H. Emerson Kokjer, Deputy Attorney General, for the State of Nebraska, Nels G. Johnson, Attorney General, Neal E. Williams and James
Hanley for the State of North Dakota, C. B. Bee for the
State of Oklahoma, William Williamson, Assistant Attorney General, for the State of South Dakota, and Price
Daniel, Attorney General, James D. Smullen and Charles
D. Methews, Assistant Attorneys General, for the State
of Texas.
J. A. A. Burnquist, Attorney General, and George T.
Simpson filed a brief for the State of Minnesota, appellee.
Eldon S. Dummit, Attorney General, M. B. Holifield,
Assistant Atorney General, J. E. Marks and L. F. Orr filed
a brief on behalf of the State of Kentucky, as amicus
curiae, urging affirmance.
Opinion of the Court by MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS, announced by MR. JUSTICE BURTON.
The orders of the Interstate Commerce Commission,
which appellants seek to have set aside, resulted from two
separate investigations instituted by the Commission on
its own motion in 1939 to inquire into the lawfulness or
unlawfulness of most of the then existing rate-making
standards for interstate railroad class freight rates in the
United States. One investigation related to classifica-

290

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

tions1 under which commodities move by rail freight.
The other related to class rates. - The two investigations
were consolidated and were covered by one report, as the
problems of classification and of class rates' are closely
interrelated. The findings of the Commission as to classifications are not directly involved here. For the orders of
the Commission under attack are interim orders which
affect only class rates, increasing them in some areas and
decreasing them in others. But a review and summary
of the Commission's findings both on classifications and
'Commodities are grouped into classes, those commodities in each
class paying the same freight rate per 100 pounds. Frequently a
commodity is in several classes depending upon whether carload or
less-than-carload lots are involved, and upon the method of packaging. One class is called first-class or class 100 and each other class
has been fixed as a percentage, or multiple, of first-class. Thus the
freight classificationsinvolved in these cases consist of lists containing
descriptions of every commodity moving by freight and the class or
classes to which it is assigned, i. e., its classification rating or ratings.
See 262 I. C. C. pp. 465-472.
2 The class rates are in the form of a schedule which shows the price
per 100 pounds for moving first-class freight every possible distance
it may be moved. The cost of shipment for a given commodity is
determined by ascertaining its classification rating, the first-class rate
per 100 pounds for the haul involved, and the percentage of the
first-class rate to which the classification rating in question is subject.
See 262 I. C. C. pp. 515-519.
3 There are three other kinds of rates:
Exception rates are rates resulting from the transfer of a commodity
out of its regularly assigned class in the classification and into another
class.
Commodity rates are special rates established for particular commodities. For purposes of these rates a commodity is not given a
classification rating; the result is that the commodity rates have no
fixed percentage relationships to first-class rates.
Column rates are fixed as definite percentages of first-class rates
but like commodity rates they apply only to particular commodities
and are assigned no regular class.
See 262 1. C. C. p. 562.

NEW YORK v. UNITED STATES.
284

Opinion of the Court.

on class rates are essential for an understanding of the
problem.
While there are three major classification territories,
there are five major rate territories.4 Official Territory,
roughly speaking, lies east of the Mississippi and north
of the Ohio and Potomac Rivers; it also includes most of
Virginia. Southern Territory lies south of Official Territory and east of the Mississippi. Western Trunk-Line
Territory is located approximately between Official Territory and the Rocky Mountains. 'Southwestern Territory lies south of Western Trunk-Line Territory and
west of the Mississippi and includes Arkansas, Texas,
Oklahoma, and part of Louisiana. Mountain-Pacific
Territory includes Montana and New Mexico and all
territory west of the Rockies. Only Mountain-Pacific
Territory is not involved in these cases.
The three major classifications are Official, Southern
and Western. ' But there is great lack of uniformity in
the classifications. The problem is one with which the
Commission has long wrestled.' But prior to the present
4 Some rate territories have subdivisions in which rate differentials
are applicable which vary the class rates within the territory in
question.
5The Official Classification applies within Official Territory and
from Western Trunk-Line Territory to Official. The Southern Classification applies within Southern Territory, between Official and
Southern, and from Western Trunk-Line to Southern. Western

Classification includes Western Trunk-Line, Southwestern and Mountain Pacific rate territories. It applies within those three territories,
between Southwestern and Official, between Southwestern and Southern, from Official to Western Trunk-Line, between Mountain Pacific
and Official, from Southern to Western Trunk-Line, and between
Mountain-Pacific and Southern.
6 Western Classification,25 I. C. C. 442; Consolidated Classification,
54 I. C. C. 1; Southern Class Rate Investigation, 100 I. C. C. 513;
Consolidated Southwestern Cases, 123 I. C. C. 203; Western TrunkLine Class Rates, 164 I. C. C. 1; Eastern Class-Rate Investigation,
164 1. C. C. 314.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

investigation its chief accomplishment in this field had
been to establish classification uniformity within the separate territories. National classification uniformity was
still in the main lacking. Many differences between
classifications on a particular rating are matters of substance; others are matters of nomenclature. Moreover,
there has been a tendency among carriers to work against
the evolution of uniform classifications by making exceptions which remove commodities from the classifications
for rate-making purposes.
Section 1 (4) of the Interstate Commerce Act as
amended, 24 Stat. 379, 54 Stat. 899, 900, 49 U. S. C. § 1 (4)
provides that it shall be the duty of common carriers to
establish just and reasonable classifications applicable to
through freight rates and charges. Section 1 (6) prohibits
every unjust and unreasonable classification. Section 3
(1) prohibits discrimination. And § 15 (1) empowers the
Commission to prescribe just, fair, and reasonable classifications, after a finding that existing classifications are unlawful. The Commission found that the existing classifications are unlawful and will continue to be unlawful until
there is national uniformity of classification. It found
that differences in the applicable classifications affect the
levels of the class rates as much as or more, in some instances, than the differences in the levels of the class
rate scales themselves. It found that shippers in one
territory pay more than shippers in another territory
on the same article because of classification differences;
that territorial boundaries separating classification territories are artificial and cause serious complications; that
where geographic conditions produce divergent costs, revenue requirements, or other conditions requiring rate adjustments, the adjustments should be made not in the
basic classification itself but in the rate levels or by the
creation of legitimate exceptions to the classification; that
amongst the classifications there was no real uniformity

NEW YORK v. UNITED STATES.
284

Opinion of the Court.

of classification ratings although the same classification
principles are applicable throughout the nation. It concluded that without such uniformity it is impossible to
maintain just and reasonable relationships between class
rates for competing commodities; that it is feasible for
the carriers to establish a uniform classification. The
Commission gave the railroads the opportunity to take the
initiative in preparing the new uniform classificationan invitation which, we are advised, has been accepted.
Prior to this proceeding the Commission made four
major class rate investigations-one for each of the rate
territories except Mountain-Pacific.7 These established
class rate structures on a regional basis, i. e. they established some degree of uniformity in class rates within each
territory or subdivision of a territory. But they did not
deal with interterritorial class rates by harmonizing regional rate adjustments one with the other. As a result
there are separate interterritorial rate structures applicable to freight traffic moving from one territory into
another.
These territorial class rate structures are exceedingly
complicated. There is no basic uniformity amongst them
and they are computed by varying formulae.
The Commission found that class rates within Southern,
Southwestern and Western Trunk-Line territories, and
from those territories to Official Territory, were generally
much higher, article for article, than the rates within
Official Territory. It found that higher class rates have
impeded the development and movement of class rate
7 Eastern Class-Rate Investigation, 164 I. C. C. 314, 171 I. C. C.
481, 177 I. C. C. 156, 203 I. C. C. 357; Southern Class Rate Investigation, 100 I. C. C. 513, 109 I. C. C. 300, 113 I. C. C. 200, 128 I. C. C.
567; Western Trunk-Line Class Rates, 164 1. C. C. 1,173 I. C. C. 637,
178 I. C. C. 619, 181 I. C. C. 301, 196 I. C. C. 494, 197 I. C. C. 57, 204
I. C. C. 595, 210 I. C. C. 312, 246 I. C. C. 119; ConsolidatedSouthwestern Cases, 123 I. C. C. 203, 205 I. C. C. 601. See the discussion
in 262 1. C. C. pp. 526 et seq.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

freight within Southern, Southwestern and Western
Trunk-Line territories and from those territories to Official
Territory. It concluded that neither the comparative
costs of transportation service nor variations in the consists ' and volume of traffic within the territories justified
those differences in the class rates. The Commission also
determined that equalization of class rates is not dependent on equalization of non-class rates and that interterritorial rate problems can be solved only by establishing
substantial uniformity in class ratings and rates.
Section 1 (4) and (5) (a) of the Act require rates and
charges to be just and reasonable. The Commission
found that the intraterritorial class rates applicable to the
territories in question and the interterritorial class rates
between the territories violate those provisions.
Section 3 (1) of the Act outlaws undue or unreasonable
preferences or advantages to any region, district, or territory. The Commission found that the relation between
the interterritorial class rates to Official Territory from
the other territories in question and the intraterritorial
class rates within Official Territory results in an unreasonable preference to Official Territory as a whole, and to
shippers and receivers of freight located there, in violation
of § 3 (1). The Commission, acting pursuant to its authority under § 15 (1) of the Act, prescribed reasonable
and nondiscriminatory class rates to cure the preference
found to exist, the new rates to become applicable simultaneously with the new revised classification which, as we
have noted, the Commission ordered to be established.
But time will be required to formulate a uniform classification. And the Commission concluded that pending
completion of that undertaking certain interim readjustments in the existing basis of class rates, based on existing
The consist of freight in a given territory is the totality of commodities carried in that territory.

NEW YORK v. UNITED STATES.
284

Opinion of the Court.

classifications, could be made-readjustments which
would be just and reasonable, and which would reduce to
a minimum the preferences and prejudices which the
Commission found to be unlawful in the existing system.
It determined that the several intraterritorial freight-rate
structures should be brought closer to the same level and
be constructed on the same pattern or scheme. It concluded that as many differences as possible between the
interterritorial rates and the intraterritorial rates should
be eliminated. It accordingly ordered that existing interstate class rates ' applicable to freight traffic moving
at the classification ratings within Southern, Southwestern, and Western Trunk-Line territories, interterritorially
between those territories, and interterritorially between
each of those territories and Official Territory, be reduced 10 per cent subject to qualifications not important here. It also ordered that interstate class rates for
freight traffic moving at classification ratings within Official Territory be increased 10 per cent, subject to qualifications not relevant to our problem. It found the new
interim class rates just and reasonable. 262 I. C. C. 447,
supplemental report, 264 I. C. C. 41.
The new interim rates were ordered to become effective January 1, 1946. Prior to that date, New York and
other northern States, appellants in No. 343, filed their
petition in the District Court to set aside the orders of
the Commission. A statutory three judge court was convened and a temporary injunction was issued preventing
the orders from going into effect. 38 Stat. 208, 220, 28
U. S. C. § 47. The Governors of the six New England
States (three of whose successors in office have been substituted as appellants in No. 344) intervened on the
side of the plaintiffs, as did most of the appellants in
No change in intrastate class rates was made. Nor was any
change made in existing exception, column or commodity rates. See

note 3, supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

No. 345. The Commission and others " intervened on
the side of the United States. Appellants in No.
345, including most of the western railroads, also filed
their petition in the District Court seeking substantially
the same relief as appellants in No. 343. The cases
were consolidated and tried together, the District Court
receiving additional evidence offered by the western railroads. The court sustained the orders of the Commission
in all respects, 65 F. Supp. 856, but continued the injunction pending appeal to this Court.11 Judicial Code § 210,
28 U. S. C. § 47a.
First. The principal evil at which the Interstate Commerce Act was aimed was discrimination in its various
manifestations. Louisville & N. R. Co. v. United States,
282 U. S.740, 749-750. Until 1935, § 3 (1) of the Act prohibited discrimination only against a "person, company,
firm, corporation, or locality, or any particular description
of traffic . . . ." 24 Stat. 379, 380. The question arose
whether "locality" included a port insofar as the port
was not a point of origin or destination but a gateway
through which shipments were made. The Court held
by a closely divided vote, and contrary to the ruling of the
Commission, that it did not. Texas & Pacific R. Co. v.
United States, 289 U. S. 627., Thereafter Congress
amended § 3 (1) so as to extend the prohibition against
discrimination to include a "port, port district, gateway,
transit point." 49 Stat. 607. And see Albany Port Dis"IAlabama, Arkansas, Florida, Georgia, Kansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Minnesota, Nebraska, North Carolina, North Dakota, Oklahoma, South Carolina, South Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, the State
Commissions of a number of these States, the Southern Governors'
Conference, and the Southeastern Association of Railroad and Utilities Commissioners.
"I We denied the motion of the United States to dissolve the injunction. 328 U. S. 824. See Fed. R. Civ. P. 62 (g).

NEW YORK v. UNITED STATES.
284

Opinion of the Court.

trict Commission v. Ahnapee & W. R. Co., 219 I. C. C.
151. That was in 1935. In 1940 Congress went further.
By § 5 (b) of the Transportation Act of 1940, 54 Stat.
899, 902, known as the Ramspeck Resolution, it authorized
and directed the Commission to institute an investigation into rates on commodities between points in one
classification territory and points in another territory
and into like rates within territories for the purpose of determining whether those rates were "unjust and unreasonable or unlawful in any other respect in and of themselves
or in their relation to each other, and to enter such orders
as may be appropriate for the removal of any unlawfulness
which may be found to exist . .
12 Congress also extended the prohibition against discriminations by adding
to § 3 (1) the words "region, district, territory." 13
It is now asserted that the Commission has misunderstood its duties under these 1940 amendments. It is said
that the Commission has construed this mandate of Congress to mean that identical rates, mile for mile, should be
12

The Commission advised Congress that its investigations insti-

tuted in 1939 (the basis of the orders challenged in the present cases)

would be carried out pursuant to this mandate. See 262 I. C. C.
p. 689.
13Section 3 (1) now reads:
"It shall be unlawful for any common carrier subject to the provisions of this part to make, give, or cause any undue or unreasonable preference or advantage to any particular person, company, firm,
corporation, association, locality, port, port district, gateway, transit
point, region, district, territory, or any particular description of traffic,
in any respect whatsoever; or to subject any particular person, company, firm, corporation, association, locality, port, port district, gateway, transit point, region, district, territory, or any particular description of traffic to any undue or unreasonable prejudice or
disadvantage in any respect whatsoever: Provided, however, That
this paragraph shall not be construed to apply to discrimination, prejudice, or disadvantage to the traffic of any other carrier of whatever
description."

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

established everywhere in the country, in face of a longstanding practice of rate-making (which the legislative
history of the 1940 amendments shows was not intended
to be changed) that allowed differences in rates which
were based on differences in the length of haul, character
of the terrain, density of traffic, and other elements of the
cost of service. Thus it is argued that the Commission.
runs afoul of Ann Arbor R. Co. v. United States, 281 U. S.
658, which involved the construction of a joint'resolution
of Congress directing the Commission to make an investigation to determine whether existing rates and charges
were unjust, unreasonable, or unjustly discriminatory so
as to give undue advantage "as between the various localities and parts of the country . . . ." 43 Stat. 801, 802.
The Commission, relying on that mandate, condemned
certain existing rates between California and eastern
points. The Court set aside the order of the Commission, holding that the joint resolution did not purport
to change the existing law but left the validity of rates to
be determined by that law.
But the Commission in the present cases did not proceed
on the assumption that the Ramspeck Resolution changed
the substantive law. As we read its report, the Commission took the resolution only as a directive to investigate
and correct violations of substantive law as it deemed that
law broadened by the amendment to § 3 (1). It said:
"By the amendment to the substantive antidiscrimination provisions of section 3 (1) all discriminations
in the form of undue or unreasonable preference or
advantage, or undue or unreasonable prejudice or disadvantage, as between regions, districts, or territories,
viewed as separate entities, were brought directly
within the purview of the act along with all the other
inhibitions previously included. We were then authorized and directed by the other provisions men-

NEW YORK v. UNITED STATES.
284

Opinion of the Court.

tioned to remove any such discriminations found to
exist in a proper proceeding. This means that such
discriminations as those mentioned which result from
differences in the methods of distributing the general
rate burden in the several rate-making territories, or
from any other cause, if not justified upon proper
consideration of recognized elements of rate making
applied in the light of the amended law are unlawful
and should be corrected." 262 I. C. C. p. 692.
From this statement it is apparent that the Commission concluded that the 1940 amendment to § 3 (1)
enlarged the scope of the section. The Commission, indeed, stated that "it is clear that the main purpose which
Congress had in mind was to bring about a greater degree
of equalization, harmony, and uniformity in the different
regional or territorial rate structures of the country."
Id. p. 692. And see id. pp. 688-691. But it is suggested
that discriminations based on geographic factors were outlawed prior to the 1940 amendment to § 3 (1), as evidenced
by its long-standing condemnation of "undue or unreasonable prejudice or disadvantage" to any "locality" and,
since 1935, to any "port, port district, gateway, transit
point." ", It is, moreover, suggested that even the prohibition of discriminations against shippers was broad
enough all along to ban discriminations based on the geographic location of the shippers. The contention is that
without a change in the law the present orders were unwarranted; it is pointed out that the class rates now condemned had been found by the Commission itself to be
just and reasonable in recent years. And it is asserted
14

It is pointed out in this connection that Texas & Pacific R. Co.

v. United States, supra, while holding that a port was not a "locality"
when it was only a gateway through which shipments were made,
recognized that a port was a "locality" when it was a point of origin
or destination. 289 U. S. p. 638.
755552 0-48-23

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

that the Commission did not take its present action on a
showing of changed circumstances since those times. The
conclusion, therefore, is that the present orders are not
warranted by § 3 (1).
We need not determine whether, prior to the 1940
amendment, § 3 (1), by its ban on unlawful discriminations against a "locality," would have permitted
the Commission to eradicate regional discriminations
in class rates. For whatever doubt may have existed
in the law was removed by the 1940 amendment which
made abundantly clear that Congress thought that the
problem of regional discriminations had been neglected
and that, if any such discriminations were found to
be present, they should be eradicated. 5 But, as the
Commission concedes, the addition of "region, district, territory" to § 3 (1) did not change the law respecting discrimination by authorizing uniform freight
rates, mile for mile, without regard to differing costs of the
service. Congress, by adding those words, made plain the
duty of the Commission, in determining whether discriminatory practices exist, to consider the interests of regions, districts, and territories, and to eliminate territorial
rate differences which are not justified by differences in
territorial conditions. In other words Congress did not
introduce a new standard of discrimination by its amendment to § 3 (1); it merely made clear its purpose that
regions, districts, and territories should be the beneficiaries of the law against discrimination.
15 Senator Wheeler who had charge of the bill on the floor of the
Senate stated concerning the amendment to § 3 (1): "The previous
provision with regard to 'discrimination' simply referred to discrimination as to 'locality, port, port district, gateway, transit point'
without specifying the region, district, or territory. So we felt that
by broadening the language we would at least take away that excuse,
and we would provide expressly that the Commission should not discriminate in its rate structures." 84 Cong. Rec., p. 5889.

NEW YORK v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

Second. It is argued, however, that the findings of the
Commission concerning regional discriminations in class
rates are not supported by substantial evidence.
The great differences betwen territorial class rate levels
are shown by the following table. It gives a comparison
(in cents per 100 pounds) between the first-class rate scale
within Official Territory and that within each of the other
territories:
Western trunk-line scale
Southern

scale
Distance

Zone I

Easter
scale
rate
Rate

5O miles --------------l0 miles -------------l50 miles-------------200 miles-------------OO miles -------------400 miles------------500 miles------------600 miles------------700 miles------------8OO miles------------900 miles-------------1,000 miles------------

47
62
73
80
96
109
122
135
149

160
171
182

Average ----------------

Percentage of
Eastern

Rate

Percentage of
Eastern

Zone II

Rate

Percentage of
Eastern

Zone III

Rate

Percentage of
Eastern

57 -------53 -------- 61 -------- 65
79 --------73 -------83 -------90
96 -------86
98 -------107 -------112 -------97------- 123 --134-------117-------- 134 --------147 -------156-------136-------- 156 --------172 -------173 -------156 -------- 178 -------196 ......
189 --------176 -------- 200 -------- 220 -------206 ----196 -----222 -------244 ......
222 -------210 _......
239 -------263 --235 ------- 226-------- 256-------282 -------249 ------240 --------273 --------300 ----------- 137.7------129.6
----

144.4------ 159.4

These first-class intraterritorial rates are used as bases in
formulating rates on other classes of freight in the respective territories."l
The following tables compiled by Government counsel
show the first-class rates for interterritorial movements
to Official Territory from each of the other territories as
compared with intraterritorial movements for approximately equal distances within Official Territory:
16

See note 2, supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

Southern v. Official
Miles

In per
cent

In
cents

To-

From-

First
class
rates

Disadvantage
of Southern
Territory shipper compared
with Official
Territory
shipper

Nashville, Tenn ---------Indianapolis, Ind----------

Indianapolis, Ind--------Kent, Ohio ----------------

297
296

135 ...............
96
39

41

Knoxville, Tenn ---------Baltimore, Md ------------

Columbus, Ohio ---------Warren, Ohio -------------

395
392

155 ...............
103
52

50

Birmingham, Ala --------Pittsburgh, Pa------------

Muncie, Ind -------------Rockford, Ill --------------

536
538

179 -------------128
51
40

Chattanooga, Tenn --------Chicago, Ill --------------Philadelphia, Pa---------Toledo, Ohio --------------

594
595

187 ................
135
52
39

Atlanta, a -------------Danville, Ill ----------------

Chicago, Ill --------------Washington, D. C --------

731
733

210 -.
-------151
59
39

Macon, Oa---------------Chicago, Ill--------------Trenton, N. J------------ _ Danville, Ill ---------------

819
819

223 ................
163
60

Southwestern v. Official
Miles

From-

37

Disadvantage of
Southwestern
Territory
shipper
compared
First
Mie
ast
with
Official
class
teroy
rts territory
rates
shipper
In cents In per
cent

To-

Little Rock, Ark ---------Detroit, Mich------------Official Territory Point _.- -. Detroit, Mich -------------

785
785

222 --------.........
160
62
39

Oklahoma City, Okla------- Cincinnati, Ohio ---------Official Territory Point..--Cincinnati, Ohio ----------

882
882

244------------171
73
43

Shreveport, La -----------Official Territory Point---

Cleveland, Ohio ---------Cleveland, Ohio ----------

1,013
1,013

264 --------.........
185
79
43

Dallas, Tex --------------Official Territory-Point ---

Pittsburgh, Pa ----------Pittsburgh, Pa ............

1,224
1,224

304 --------.........
207
97
47

NEW YORK v. UNITED STATES.
284

303

Opinion of the Court..

Disadvantage

of Western
Trunk-Line

isirrirtory
Prtsippe
corepared with
lass
Milesmilesclass
O'fIcial
Terri-

Western Trunk-Line v. Official

rates

From-

Des Moines, Iowa --------Official Territory Point---

To-

tory shipper

In per

In

To-cents

Toledo, Ohio-------------Toledo,' Ohio --------------

558
558

142
118

St. Paul, Minn----------South Bend, Ind---------Official Territory Point ---- South Bend, Ind----------

491

138

491

111

Lincoln, Nebr-- ----------

Evansville, Ind----------

612

169

Official Territory Point ---

Evansville,

nd -----------

612

125

Denver, Col -------------Official Territory Point ---

Cleveland, Ohio ---------Cleveland, Ohio ----------

1,329
1,329

cent

24

20

27

24

44

35

289 ................
200
89
45

The disadvantage to the Southern or Western shipper
who attempts to market his product in Official Territory
is obvious. Thus the first of these tables shows that a
Nashville shipper pays 39 cents more on each 100 pounds
of freight moving to Indianapolis, Indiana than one who
ships from Indianapolis to a point of substantially equal
distance away (Kent, Ohio) in Official Territory. Similar
disadvantages suffered by Southern and Western shippers
are revealed in the other comparable interterritorial
freight movements set forth in the tables.
That disadvantage is emphasized if the effects of classification differences on rates for identical commodities are
considered. A comparison of rates in cents per 100
pounds for 200 miles shows that, even though shippers
in the South and West have the same or lower classification
ratings for identical commodities, they nevertheless on the
whole pay higher charges than the shippers in Official
Territory for equivalent service. Thus there are in class
100 (first class) for less-than-carload lots 2092 items

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

common to the three classifications. In Official Classification all of these move at a rate of 80 cents per 100
pounds for a haul of 200 miles. In Southern, 2075 of
these items are classified 100 and move at a rate of $1.12.
Of the remaining 17 items 5 are classified in Southern in
class 85 with a rate of 95, 2 in class 70 with a rate of 78,
7 in class 55 with a rate of 62, 2 in class 45, with a rate of 50,
1 in class 40 with a rate of 45. In Western Trunk-Line
Zone I, 2076 of the 2092 items are classified 100 with a
rate of 97, 4 in 85 with a rate of 82, 10 in 70 with a rate
of 68, 2 in 55 with a rate of 53.
In class 100 for carload lots there are 213 common items.
In Official Classification all of these move at a rate of 80
cents for a haul of 200 miles. In Southern, 199 of these
items are classified 100 and move at a rate of $1.12 for 200
miles. Of the remaining 14, 7 are classified in Southern
in class 85 with a rate of 95, 2 in 75 with a rate of 84,
5 in 70 with a rate of 78. In Western Trunk-Line Zone I,
202 of the 213 items are classified 100 with a rate of 97,
7 in 85 with a rate of 82, 3 in 70 with a rate of 68, 1 in
55 with a rate of 53. Additional illustrations are too
numerous and detailed to include in this opinion. But
the ones given are representative of the rest and show
how disparities in the rate levels are aggravated when
the effects of classification differences on rates are considered.
There is rather voluminous evidence in the record tendered to show the effect in concrete competitive situations
of these class rate inequalities. The instances were in the
main reviewed by the Commission. They axe attacked
here on various grounds-that some of them involved rates
other than class rates, that others were testified to by shippers who made no complaint of class rates, that others
showed shippers paying higher rates yet maintaining their
competitive positions and prospering. We do not stop to

-

NEW YORK v. UNITED STATES.
284

Opinion of the Court.

analyze them or discuss them beyond saying that some of
the specific instances support what is plainly to be inferred
from the figures we have summarized-that class rates
within Southern, Southwestern and Western territories,
and from those territories to Official Territory, are generally much higher, article for article, than the rates
within Official Territory. That was the basic finding of
the Commission; and it is abundantly supported by
the evidence.
Thus discrimination in class rates in favor of Official
Territory and against the Southern, Southwestern and
Western Trunk Line territories is established. But that
is not the end of the matter. For/'mere discrimination
does not render a rate illegal under § 3." United States v.
Illinois Central R. Co., 263 U. S.515, 521. Section 3 condemns "any undue or unreasonable preference or advantage" and "any undue or unreasonable prejudice or disadvantage" to any territory. And, as we have said,
the 1940 amendment to § 3, by its addition of "region,
district, territory," did not change the prevailing rules
respecting unlawful discrimination; it merely enlarged the
reach of. § 3. Hence we must determine from the preexisting law whether a discrimination against a territory
is obnoxious to § 3. The rule is stated in United States v.
Illinois Central R.*Co., supra, p. 524, as follows:
"To bring a difference in rates within the prohibition
of § 3, it must be shown that the discrimination practiced is unjust when measured by the transportation
standard. In other words, the difference in rates
cannot be held illegal, unless it is shown that it is not
justified by the cost of the respective services, by their
values, or by other transportation conditions."
It is on this principle that the findings of the Commission under § 3 are both defended and attacked.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

Third. The Commission's findings under § 3 (1) are first
challenged on the ground that there is no finding that
the corresponding class rates are actually charged to or
demanded of competing shippers in the several territories.
That is to say, no unlawful discrimination in favor of a
shipper in Official Territory and against a shipper in
Southern Territory can be said to exist unless it is shown
that the southern competitor is actually required to pay
the higher interterritorial class rates. It is contended
that the record negatives the existence of facts which
could support such a finding and that no such finding was
made. Reliance is placed on two circumstances. In the
first place, reference is made to the effect of classification
ratings on class rates which we briefly summarized above.
It is noted, for example, that the southern shipper in some
instances actually pays less for the shipment of the same
commodity than the shipper in Official Territory, e. g.,
where the Southern Classification carries the commodity
in a lower class, which in turn exacts a rate less than that
required of the higher classification granted by Official.
It is apparent from the illustrations we have given that
such is true in some cases. But that is not the dominant
pattern. In the vast majority of the instances the classification ratings, like the class rate structure, work to the
benefit of Official Territory and against the others. But
the greater reliance is placed on the second circumstancethat only a minor portion of freight moves by class rates
and of that a greater percentage moves in Official Territory than in the others. This point requires a more
extended answer.
The Commission, indeed, found that by reason of nonuse the class rates have become obsolete and no longer
serve the purposes for which they were designed. They
move a relatively small amount of freight. The following
table indicates the percentages of carload traffic carried'
at class rates within and between territories in 1942:

NEW YORK v. UNITED STATES.
284

Opinion of the Court.
To

From
Official

Official ----------------------------------

5.8

Southern ----------------------------.
Southwestern ---------------------------Western trunk-line-----------------------

9
1.5
3. 1

Southern

Southwestern

12.6

22.5

1.8
1.2
6. 1

6.1
2.4
13.0

Western
trunk-line

12.3

1.5
2.0
.6

In September, 1940, for example, less-than-carload ratings
on about 3,000 commodities were removed from the
Southern Classification by classification excepfions. The
great bulk of the freight moves on exception rates
and commodity rates." This trend, according to the
Commission, has been the result of competitive forces.
The creation of the exceptions has "shorn the ratings in the
classifications of much of their usefulness and proper function.' 262 I. C. C. p. 504. The record is replete with
evidence supporting this finding of the Commission. And
appellants seize on it as supporting their claim that since
class rates have largely become paper rates, they are not
the source of injury to shippers from the Soyth and the
West; that if the latter are prejudiced by the rate structure, the injury must flow from the exception rates and
commodity rates not involved in this proceeding; and that
in any event the case of unlawful discriminations in favor
of Official Territory and against the other territories has
not been founded on the abtual use of disadvantageous
class rates by shippers in the Southern, Southwestern, and
Western Trunk-Line territories.
But that takes too narrow a view of the problem confronting the Commission. We start of course with some
showing of actual discrimination against shippers by reason of their use of class rates. tBut the main case of
discrimination made out by the record is one against
17See note 3, supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

regions and territories. We assume that a case of unlawful discrimination against shippers by reason of their geographic location would be an unlawful discrimination
against the regions where the shipments originate. But
an unlawful discrimination against regions or territories
is not dependent on such a showing. As we stated in
Georgia v. PennsylvaniaR. Co., 324 U. S. 439, 450, "Discriminatory rates are but one form of trade barriers."
Their effect is not only to impede established industries
but to prevent the establishment of new ones, to arrest
the development of a State or region, to make it difficult
for an agricultural economy to evolve into an industrial
one. Non-discriminatory class rates renove that barrier
by offering that equality which the law'was designed to
afford. They insure prospective shippers not only that
the rates are just and reasonable per se -but that they are
properly related to those of theircompetitors. Shippers
are then not dependent on their ability to get exception
rates or commodity rates after their industries are established and their shipments are ready to move. They have
a basis for planning ahead by relyi g on a coherent rate
structure
reflecting competitive factors.
17
If a showing of discrimination against a territory or
region were dependent on a showing of actual discrimination against shippers located in these sections, the case
could never be made out where discriminatory rates had
proved to be such effective trade barriers as to prevent
the establishment of industries in those outlying regions.
If that were the test, then the 1940 amendment to § 3 (1)
would not have achieved its purpose. We cannot attribute such futility to the effort made by Congress to
make regions, districts and territories, as well as shippers,
the beneficiaries of its anti-discrimination policy expressed
in § 3 (i).-/

NEW YORK v. UNITED STATES.
284

Opinion of the Court.

So far as the remedy is concerned, the present cases
might, of course, be different if the Commission had no
power to prescribe classifications. But § 15 (1) of the
Act grants it full power, on finding that a classification,
is "unjust or unreasonable or unjustly discriminatory or
unduly preferential or prejudicial," to determine and prescribe what classification will be "just, fair, and reasonable." The Commission's over-all conclusion was that
the classifications in force and the class rates computed
from them harbor inequities which result in unlawful
discriminations in favor of Official Territory and against
the other territories. The fact that relatively small
amounts of freight move by class rates proves not that
the regional and territorial discrimination is slight, but
that the rate structure as constituted holds no promise
of affording the various regions or territories that parity
of treatment which territorial conditions warrant. The
Commission in substance concluded that that result could
not be achieved unless traffic was, in the main, moved
on class rates. We will discuss later the appropriateness
of the relief granted by the interim orders here challenged.
It is sufficient here to note that the case of unlawful discrimination against these territories was chiefly founded
on the absence of non-discriminatory class rates and uniform classifications which would remove the features of
existing rate structures prejudicial to Southern, Southwestern, and Western Trunk-Line territories.
"We are thus not primarily concerned with the adequacies of the Commission's findings showing discrimination against actual shippers located in a territory (cf.
Florida v. United States, 282 U. S. 194; North Carolina
v. United States, 325 U. S. 507; Interstate Commerce
Commission v. Mechling, 330 U. S. 567), but with
prejudice to a territory as a whole./,

310

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

Fourth. The inquiry of the Commission into the effect
of class rates on the economic development of Southern,
Southwestern, and Western Trunk-Line territories took
a wide range. It concluded that prejudice to the territories in question had been established. We think that
finding is supported by substantial evidence.
It is, of course, obvious that the causal connection between rate discrimination and territorial injury is not
always susceptible of conclusive proof. The extent of
that causal relation cannot in any case be shown with
mathematical exactness. It is a matter of inference from
relevant data. 'The Commission recognized, for example,
that the fact that the South has fewer industries than the
East results from a complex of causes-that the "industrial development of the East is due to many factors other
than transportation services and costs, such as climate,
soil, natural resources, available water power, supplies of
natural gas and coal, and early settlements of population which antedated the building of railroads." 262
I. C. C. p. 619. It noted that in 1939 freight revenues
on commodities in the manufactures and miscellaneous
group were but 5.3 per cent of the destination value of
manufactured goods and that differences in freight charges
resulting from differences in class rate levels were only a
small, fraction of that figure. But it nevertheless concluded that "Nearness to markets and ability to ship to
markets, on a basis fairly and reasonably related to the
rates of competitors, are nevertheless potent factors in
the location of a manufacturing plant. In fact, rate relations are more important to the manufacturer and shipper
than the levels of the rates." 262 I. C. C. 619-620.
The great advance in industrialization of Official Territory over the other territories need not be labored, for' it
is obvious. Some manifestations of that development
may be illustrated by the following tables:

NEW YORK v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

194
a

Territory

Official -------------.---------------Southern ---------------------------Western Trunk Line----------------Southwestern -----------------------Mountain Pacific -------------------Total -_----------------------

,

Gainful
workers,
1930
1930

Value added
Value of
manufactured by manuproducts,
facture,
1939
1939

13. 5
13. 3
20.9
14. 2
38.1

51.1
16. 8
13. 5
9.3
9.3

67.8
10.0
9.9
4. 5
7.8

100.0

100.0

100.0

71.4
9.4
8. 7
3.3
7.2
100.0

Another measure of industrial growth is shown by the
number of gainful workers and the manufacturing industries in the several territories:

Territory

Official ----------------------------Southern --------------------------Western Trunk-Line --------------Southwestern ---------------------Mountain Pacific -------------------

Actual increase
in total gainful
workers from
1910 to 1930

Actual increase
in value of
products in all
manufacturing
industries from
1909 to 1939

Actual increase
in value added
by manufacture
in all manufacturing industries
from 1909 to 1939

6,230,273
652, 755
904,986
1,011,151
1,863,419

$23, 561,190,000
4, 229, 396,000
3, 117, 079, 000
1,942,378, 000
3,320,930, 000

$11,284,350,000
1,662, 336,000
1,284, 798, 000
580, 388, 000
1,341,785,000

The value added by manufacture in all industries from
1849 to 1939 is shown for all the territories by the chart on
the following page.
From this chart it is apparent that Official Territory has
maintained its commanding lead in spite of recent marked
increases elsewhere, especially in the South. Similarly,
for the period 1929 to 1939 the number of wage earners
in manufacturing industries in the entire country decreased 11 per cent; in Official Territory, 12 per cent;
while in the South there was an increase of 5 per cent.
For the same period, values of manufactured products
increased 1 per cent in the South, while they decreased
21 per cent for the entire country and 25 per cent in Official Territory. From 1930 to 1940, the number of gain-

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
331 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

PER C61r

PER CENT

10

i~-

0

so

-10

so

30

3-

-30

go-

20

-

-

o

I,, "
1849

189

1869

WTI

'WN-Li"t
--

,' ,

II

1879

1889

1899

1909

'--

1919

-

I0

-

I

I

1929

1939

o

fully occupied workers in manufacturing in Official Territory decreased from 70.5 per cent to 69.4 per cent of the
nation's total, while in the South there was an increase
from 10 per cent to 11.9 per cent. A number of manufacturing activities have increased more rapidly in the
South than in Official Territory, though the reverse has
been true in other industries. But in spite of the growth
in industrial activities in the South and West (which ap-

NEW YORK v. UNITED STATES.
284

Opinion of the Court.

pellants stress heavily), the percentage comparisons
are not particularly revealing because of the great disparity between the bases on which they are computed.
The fact remains that economic development in the
South and West has lagged and still lags behind Official
Territory. In 1940 the average annual dollar income per
person employed in Official Territory was $1,988; in
Southern, $940; in Southwestern, $1,177; in Western
Trunk-Line, $1,411. Official has 69 per cent of all workers engaged in manufacturing in the United States and
29 per cent of all workers in extractive industries. It has,
for example, a high concentration in the manufacture of
steel and copper products, though less than 4 per cent
of the iron ore reserves, and no reserves of metallic copper.
The South and West furnish raw materials to Official and
buy finished products back. They are also dependent to
a great extent on the markets for their products in Official,
which has over 48 per cent of the population of the country, 76 per cent of the national market for industrial
machinery and raw materials, 64 per cent for all goods and
sources, 62 per cent for consumer luxuries, and 53 per cent
for consumer necessities. Yet the South and West suffer
rate handicaps when they seek to reach those markets. 8
One of the many illustrations will suffice. Cottonseed oil
is a basic agricultural commodity. Class rates on it are
8

The Commission stated, 262 I. C. C. pp. 695-696:
"Although manufacturing has grown in the South and Southwest
and to a lesser extent in western trunk-line territory in the last decade,
it is still vastly less in diversification and amount than in official
territory. The increases in manufacturing in these territories has created a demand for rates which will at once permit the free movement
of the manufactured articles, but because of the level of the intraterritorial and interterritorial class rates, such free movement has been
impeded insofar as such commodities move at class rates. In most
instances it has been necessary either to reduce the class-rate levels or
to establish exception or commodity rates in order that the manufactured products may move freely, and this action has frequently been

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

7 per cent higher from Southern to Official Territory than
they are within Official Territory. If the cottonseed oil
is manufactured into oleomargarine, the rates from Southern to Official Territory are 35 per cent higher than the
rates within Official Territory.
It is said in reply, however, that the disparities which
we have mentioned reflect only natural advantages which
justify differences in rates. The great concentration of
population in the East is said to show that its more favorable rates are justified by the fact that it has many more
people to support the roads. The unfavorable income
comparisons with the East are thought to establish one of
the handicaps under which the roads in the South and
West operate. It is pointed out that the heavy preponderance of the nation's total natural resource of energy
supply is located in Official Territory-40 to 45 per cent
of the total bituminous and semi-bituminous coal supply,
practically all of the anthracite resources; 60 per cent of
all electric energy originates there. It is said that Official
Territory is the logical location for industries which use
metals from other territories, since it has the natural supplies of coal. It is also pointed out that the gross income
from crops and livestock in Official Territory is the highest
subject to long delays because of the failure of individual carriers or
groups of carriers to agree upon a basis.
"Official territory is the greatest consuming territory in the country,
and is the market that nearly all manufacturers desire to reach, particularly where they have a surplus of their products to sell. In shipping to official territory, manufacturers in the other territories not
only have the disadvantage of location, but are subjected to an additional burden in those instances where they must pay class rates on a
much higher level than their competitors in official territory. This
situation reacts to the disadvantage of manufacturers in the other
territories, and to the advantage of those in official territory, tends to
restrict the growth and expansion of the manufacturers in the other
territories, and, to some extent, to prevent the establishment of new
manufacturing plants in those territories."

NEW YORK v. UNITED STATES.
284

Opinion of the Court.

in the country, amounting to 31 per cent of the total.
From these and comparable data it is argued that the lower
rates in Official Territory reflect only inherent advantages
which the other territories do not enjoy. It is, therefore,
argued that what the Commission has sought to do is to
equalize economic advantages, to enter the field of economic planning, and to arrange a rate structure designed
to relocate industries, cause a redistribution of population,
and in other ways to offset the natural advantages which
one territory has over another. It is asserted that
such a program is unlawful under Interstate Commerce
Commission v. Diffenbaugh, 222 U. S. 42, 46, where the
Court held that the Act, in its condemnation of discrimination, "does not attempt to equalize fortune, opportunities or abilities." And see United States v. Illinois Central R. Co., supra, p. 524 Texas & Pacific R. Co. v. United
States, supra,pp. 637-638.
We will revert to this matter when we come to consider
whether territorial conditions justify the differences in
rates. It is sufficient at this point to say that the record
makes out a strong case for the inference that natural
disadvantages alone are not responsible for the retarded
development of the South and the West, that the discriminatory rate structure has also played a part. How
much a part cannot be determined, for every effect is the
result of many factors. But the inference of prejudice from the discriminatory rate structure is irresistible.
If this discriminatory rate structure is not justified by
territorial conditions, then its continued maintenance preserves not the natural advantages of one region but manmade trade barriers which have been imposed upon the
country. Such a result cannot be reconciled with the
great purposes of § 3 (1) as amended in 1940.
Fifth. The Commission found that conditions peculiar
to the respective territories did not justify the differences
in the territorial class-rate structures. In reaching that
755552 0-48-24

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

conclusion it first inquired whether the differences in the
costs of furnishing the railroad service in the several rate
territories justified the existing differences in the levels
and patterns of the class rate scales. 9 The basis of its
inquiry was a cost study submitted by its staff. For
cost analysis purposes the United States is divided into
areas roughly but not exactly approximating the classification territories. Thus there are three districts: Eastern, Southern and Western. Southern district is further
divided into Pocahontas region and Southern region.
Eastern district plus Pocahontas region is substantially
the equivalent of Official territory.' In the cost study,
railroads were assigned to geographical areas; expenses for
individual roads were divided into groups, each group
being associated with appropriate service units which included revenue car-miles, revenue gross ton-miles, and
cars originated and terminated; unit costs were then obtained by dividing the aggregate of the territorial expenses
in each group by the applicable territorial units; the costs
of particular services were then built up from the unit
costs. Costs were put into two classes-(1) out-of-pocket
or variable expenses which vary directly with the kind of
traffic handled; (2) constant or fixed costs not capable
of assignment to particular kinds of traffic costs 21 which
19

In Northern Pacific R. Co. v. North Dakota, 236 U. S. 585, 597,

the Court stated, "The outlays that exclusively pertain to a given class
of traffic must be assigned to that class, and the other expenses must
be fairly apportioned. It may be difficult to make such an apportionment, but when conclusions are based on cost the entire cost must be
taken into account."
20 For description of exact boundaries, see 262 I. C. C. 605.
For
some cost purposes the United States is also divided into 11 cost
territories, various combinations of which are equivalent to the rate
territories. For definitions of these cost territories, and a collection
of a substantial portion of the Commission's cost data, see S. Doc.
No. 63, 78th Cong., 1st Sess.
21 The sum of the out-of-pocket costs plus a pro rata distribution of
the constant or fixed costs is referred to as fully distributed cost.

NEW YORK v. UNITED STATES.
284

Opinion of the Court.

normally must be borne by the various types of traffic
in proportion to the ability of each to pay. The details
of the cost study are too intricate and voluminous to relate
here. They have been summarized by the Commission.
262 I. C. C. pp. 571-592. It should be noted, however,
that allowances for return-computed at both 4 per cent
and 53/ per cent-were included among costs. The allowances for return were based on recommended rate-making
values furnished by the Bureau of Valuation. The territorial cost comparisons were principally based on the 4 per
cent return figure, the Commission noting that the figure
was relatively close to the return earned by the carriers in
the year covered by the study, viz., 1939.
To summarize very briefly, the expenses of the carriers
were first broken down and translated into territorial
average unit costs of performing each of the kinds of services involved in moving a specific shipment or in furnishing
a given amount of transportation service in each territory.
These unit costs were then multiplied by the number of
units of each of the services found to be employed in moving the specific shipment or furnishing the given amount
of service in the territory. The process was repeated for
a series of different shipments or services sufficient to make
the result representative of territorial conditions. Once
the average costs for each rate territory were computed,
territorial average costs were compared. The principal
,comparisons were based on the year 1939, although supplementary studies were also made for the periods 19301939, inclusive, 1937-1941, inclusive, and 1941. The territorial cost comparisons showed, for example, the costs of
hauling given weight loads in a certain type of car for
given distances in each territory. They also showed the
relative costs of handling the entire traffic consist of each
territory. This was designed to eliminate the effects of
any differences in consists of traffic between territories
compared, by determining first the cost in the territory

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

in which it actually moved and then the cost in each of the
other territories. The cost study gave consideration to
freight moving for various distances in all kinds of equipment-box, hopper, gondola, tank, stock, flat, and refrigerator cars. Costs were compared for identical loads
hauled in the principal types of equipment. Standard
loads were then taken. The average weight loads experienced in each territory for various types of equipment were
also taken. The aim was to make adjustment for the
different types of equipment used and the different average
loads between territories. Likewise, comparisons were
made of the cost of hauling the entire consist of the traffic
of one territory, at the average loads and unit costs applicable in that territory, with the cost of hauling the identical traffic at the average loads and unit costs applicable
to the other territories. Comparisons were also made (for
the distances the traffic actually moved, by classes of
equipment, and at actual average loads) of the relative
cost of hauling the consist of traffic of the entire United
States, and the costs of carrying the Eastern, Southern
and Western consists respectively in each of the several
territories.
When it came to the Eastern district, computations
were made which both excluded and included the
Pocahontas region. That region, for purposes of the
study, represented the operation of three railroadsChesapeake & Ohio, Norfolk & Western, and the Virginian-about 84 per cent of whose freight traffic is coal. For
purposes of such a comparative study as this, the exclusion
of Pocahontas is considered desirable, since its costs are
low because of the very heavy coal tonnage.2
22

262 I. C. C. p. 578.

Similar conditions call for the exclusion of

Kentucky in considering figures for the Southern region. And see
General Commodity Rate Increases,223 I. C. C. 657.

NEW YORK v. UNITED STATES.
284

Opinion of the Court.

The Commission attached principal weight to the haul
of 300 miles per shipment originated, as that distance most
closely approximated the length of haul in each territory
in 1939. Relative territorial 23 costs (fully distributed)
for traffic moving that distance in box cars and gondola
cars were as follows:
[U. S. average=1001
Box cars

Gondola and hopper cars

Assumed
Actual
25 ton load average load
Eastern (excl. Pocahontas) ----------Southern ---------------------------Western -----------------------------

102
96
108

103
97
108

Assumed
50 ton load
100
99
109

Actual
average load
100
102
115

The Commission computed that on the foregoing analysis
for 100, 300 and 500 miles, the fully distributed costs for
the South are generally a little lower than for the East,
Pocahontas excluded, while the fully distributed costs in
the West exceed those of the East by from 6 to 15 per
cent. Similar cost comparisons were made for the several
territories for stock-car, refrigerator-car, tank-car, and
flat-car traffic. Based on the actual average loads experienced for each class of equipment, the Commission
found the costs for the South lower than those for the East
(Pocahontas excluded) for traffic moving in all those
classes of equipment. The costs for the West are also
lower than those for the East as to stock-car, refrigeratorcar, and flat-car traffic, but higher for tank-car traffic.
2 Not including Pocahontas in Eastern Territory figures. Relative
costs were not shown separately for Western Trunk-Line, Southwestern, and Mountain Pacific territories, the Commission noting that
differences between costs for the total West and for each of those
three rate territories were relatively small. 262 I. C. C. p. 578.

320

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

A territorial comparison of fully distributed costs for
carload traffic moving 300 miles in all classes of equipment
shows the following:.4
[U. S. average=100]
Identical
Actual
loads las average
loads
Eastern (excl. Pocahontas) --------------------------------------Pocahontas -------------------------------------------------------

102
67

102
67

Eastern including Pocahontas-----------.-----------------------Southern -----------------------------------------------------Western --------------------------------------------------------

95
98
108

95
101'
110

The fully distributed costs on identical loads in the South
are 4 per cent below those for the East, excluding Pocahontas. The same comparison shows the costs for the
West 6 per cent higher than those in the East, excluding
Pocahontas. Costs in the South, based on the actual
average loads are 1 per cent below those for the East, ex-'
cluding Pocahontas. In the West they are 8 per cent
higher than the latter.
Territorial comparisons based on average net ton-mile
carload costs (1930-1939) adjusted for differences in the
length of haul and the consist of the traffic were made.
They showed that the costs for the South are approximately 1 or 2 per cent below those for the East, excluding
Pocahontas. On the other hand, those costs for the West
exceeded those of the East, excluding Pocahontas by from
5 to 7 per cent.
Territorial comparisons of the less-than-carload costs
were also prepared. They showed that those , costs are
lower in the South than in the East whether assumed identical loads or actual average loads are taken, and even if
24 Weighting given to the costs for each class of equipment was
based on the volume of traffic handled in each type of equipment
in the United States. Terminal costs for each class of equipment
were weighted for the total United States traffic handled in each class
of equipment as measured by tons originated plus tons terminated.
Line-haul costs by classes of equipment were weighted for the tonmiles of traffic handled in each class of equipment.

NEW YORK v. UNITED STATES.
284

Opinion of the Court.

Pocahontas is included in the East. They are higher
in the West than in the East. If Pocahontas is excluded
from the East the following table shows the comparison
for a 300 mile haul:
[U. S. average-l00]
Assumed identical load
Out of
pocket
Eastern (excl. Pocahontas) ---------Southern ----------------------------Western --------------------.. -------

Out of pocket
plus constant

105
89
104

101
87
109

Actual average load
Out of pocket
scn
pstant-

Oct
94
88
120

93
86
121

I Constant costs common to all traffic are not included.

In all territories less-than-carload traffic (1939) was
carried at a deficit, Southern making the best showing,
Western the worst. That is revealed in the following
table:

Eastern (excl. Pocahontas)-...----------------Southern -------------------------------------Western ---------------------------------------

Revenues

Costs I

$107,155, 756
46,635, 725
88,797,938

$133, 308,907
47, 451,184
123,146,215

Deficit
$26,153,151
815, 459
34,348,277

1 Out-of-pocket cost plus total solely related expenses plus collection and delivery.

The Commission found that the difference in fully distributed costs for all traffic between the East and the West
is largely in the constant or fixed expenses and the passenger and less-than-carload deficits. Out-of-pocket expenses in the South and West are frequently as low as, or
even lower than, the out-of-pocket costs in the East. The
Commission further found that the increase in freight
traffic volume received by the carriers subsequent to 1939
served to reduce the unit costs of transportation in the
South and West in a proportionately greater degree than
in the East. A somewhat larger percentage of out-ofpocket expenses in the East is variable with added traffic
than is true of the South and West, due apparently to the
fact that the East, with its higher traffic density, is closer

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

to its maximum capacity than is true of the others. Thus
the influence of added traffic in reducing average costs is
greater in the West. On the other hand constant costs
(proportionately larger in the South and West) do not
increase with added traffic. As illustrative of those circumstances the Commission noted the effect of increases
in 1941 of the ton-miles of revenue freight. They increased in 1941, as compared with 1939, 43 per cent in the
East, 27 per cent in Pocahontas, 44 per cent in Southern
and 46 per cent in Western Territory. The cost per revenue ton-mile decreased by only about 5 per cent in the
East and in Pocahontas, as compared with decreases in
excess of 10 per cent in the South and West.
The Commission summarized the results of the territorial cost comparisons as follows: There is little significant difference in the cost of furnishing transportation in
the South as compared with the East, Pocahontas excluded. It is principally the low terminal costs in the
South that account for its relatively low total costs.
Based on the year 1939 and the period 1930-1939, the costs
in the South are equal to or a little lower than those in the
East. Based on the period 1937-1941, the costs in the
South are substantially lower than those in the East. 5
Based on the year 1939 and the period 1930-1939, the cost
of rendering transportation service in the West is between
5 and 10 per cent higher than in the East, excluding Pocahontas. Based on 1941, that difference is reduced to 5 per
cent or less."6
The Commission recognized, of course, that carriers
must obtain their revenue from the traffic which moves in
If Pocahontas is included in the East, the costs for the South,
based on the year 1939, are between 3 and 6 per cent above those
for the East; for the years 1930-1939, between 6 and 8 per cent
higher; for the years 1937-1941, about the same.
21 If Pocahontas is included in the East for 1930-1939, the cost
in the West is 18 per cent higher; based on 1939, approximately 15
per cent higher; based on 1941, about 10 per cent higher.
25

NEW YORK v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

their respective territories. Hence the revenue-producing
or rate-bearing characteristics of the different commodities
which compose the traffic of the several territories, i. e., the
consists and volumes of traffic, are also important in determining whether territorial conditions justify differences
in territorial rates.
The -percentage distribution of total tons carried and
revenue by commodity groups for 1939 is shown in the
following table:
Eastern
district

Eastem
(including
Pocahontas)

Southern
region

Western
district

Percent Percent Percent Percent Percent Percent Percent Percent
of ton- of rev- of ton- ofrev- ofton- of rev- of ton- of revnage
enue
nage
enue
nage
enue
nage
enue
Group I: Products of
agriculture--------6.57
8. 73
6.07 8.03 10.80 17.73
Group II: Animals
and products -------- 1.64
4.72
1.47 4.23
1.45 3.61
Group III: Products
of mines ----------58.06
34.85 61.53 40.24 46.39 23.65
Group IV: Products
of forests -----------2.43
2.74 2.43 2.69
11.40 9.45
Group V: Manufactures and miscellaneous -------------29.57 41.41
26.89 37,75 27.21 34.66
Total all carload
traffic
----------

98.27 92.45 98.39

92.94 97.25 89.00

18.88

23.70

3.00

6.30

36.64

13.98

10.59

9.31

29.38

39.94

98.49

93.23

All less - than - carload

traffic
--------------

1.73

7.55

1.61

7.06

2.75 11.00

1.51

6.77

The Commission also considered the distribution of carload traffic based on revenue ton-miles for 1939 which it
summarized as follows:
Item

Products of agriculture ------------------Animals and other products -------------Products of mines ----------------------Products of forests ---------------------Manufactures and miscellaneous- -------Grand total, carload --------------

Eastern
district

10.7
3.8
49. 3
3. 1
33.
1
-10.0

Pocahontas
region

2.7
.5
87.4
1.6
7.8
100.0

Southern
region

15.8
2.2
40.8
11.6
29.
6
100.0

Western
district

26.8
4.5
20. 1
13.6
35. 0
10.0

324

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
331 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

And the contribution which the major classes of commodities (carload lots) make in excess of out-of-pocket costs
(1939) appears as follows:
Item

Eastern
district

Products of Agriculture ----4.2
Animals and products ------1.5
Products of mines ----------38.0
Products of forests ----------- 2.8
Manufactures and miscellaneous ------------------53.5
Grand total, carload. -

100.0

Pocahontas
region

Southern
region

Western
district

United
States

3.1
1.1
73.4
2.8

15.8
3.4
21.2
9. 4

18.0
4.3
13.9
8. 1

10.8
2.7
29.7
5. 7

19.6

50.2

55.7

51.1

100.0

100.0

100.0

100.0

A large volume of all traffic moves across territorial
boundaries and therefore becomes common to two or more
territories. And as respects the balance, the Commission
found striking similarity in the consists of the traffic so
far as its revenue-producing characteristics are concerned.
The manufactures and miscellaneous commodity group
embraces traffic which moves at relatively high rates, i. e.,
rates which, ton-mile for ton-mile, make a substantially
greater than average contribution to the constant costs.
The percentages of the total tons carried in that group
and the corresponding percentages for revenue produced
by them are quite close to each other-particularly the
East and the West.
The Commission stated that the revenue-producing
qualities, or rate-bearing characteristics, of the commodities which compose the traffic in those several territories
constituted "the governing factor" so far as the problem
of the consists and volume of traffic was concerned. 262
I. C. C. p. 694. It appraised the evidence we have related
as meaning that "the differences that exist in the consists
of traffic in these respective territories are not so substan-

NEW YORK v. UNITED STATES.
284

Opinion of the Court.

tial or of such character as to warrant the present differences in class rates." Id., p. 695.
The findings of the Commission both as to the consists
of the freight and the costs of rendering the service in
the respective territories are vigorously challenged, especially by the western roads.
As to the consists, it is said that the eastern roads have
a much heavier percentage of freight of a kind that produces excess revenue to carry the general expenses. Findings of the Commission are relied upon as showing that
the eastern roads' preponderance of high-grade traffic
affords a greater source of revenue than does the high
percentage of low-rate products carried by the western roads." These undisputed facts are said to disprove
27It

is pointed out, as the Commission found, that livestock is a
commodity which cannot do more than pay its own way; that products of the forest are subject to freight rates below the higher brackets;
that agricultural products carry a low rate. The western district
roads originated 36.91 per cent of the total tons of carload traffic originated in the United States (excluding Pocahontas) in 1941, while the
eastern roads originated 47.40 per cent. To that disparity is added the
fact that of the total agricultural products originated in the country in
1941 the western district roads originated 68.82 per cent as contrasted
to 20.88 per cent by the eastern carriers excluding Pocahontas. For
manufactures and miscellaneous tonnage the percentages were 28.06
per cent and 60.66 per cent, respectively. It is pointed out that while
the difference between the percentage of agricultural products originated by the western carriers (68.82 per cent) and the percentage of
manufactures and miscellaneous originated by the eastern carriers
(60.66 per cent) is only 8 per cent, the eastern roads' tonnage of the
latter group of commodities (which are high-grade traffic) is almost
three times the tonnage of products of agriculture originated by the
western carriers. Like comparisons are made between other groups of
commodities carried by the eastern and western carriers respectively.
Of the total tons of animals and products originated in the country in
1941 (excluding Pocahontas), the western roads originated 63.03 per

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

the Commission's finding that the consists of traffic in the
respective territories do not warrant the present differences in class rates.
These facts, however, relate to density of traffic,' the
effect of which is merged in the final cost figures. But
the relation of the consist problem to the problem of rate
structures is somewhat different. It is relevant in order
to determine whether the consists of traffic are so different
in the several territories that separate rate structures
with different distributions of the transportation burden
amongst commodities and classes of freight are necessary.
It is apparent from the statistics which we have reviewed
that, while there is a diversity in traffic moved in the several territories, the diversity largely disappears when commodity groups are considered. Then, also, the percentages of the total traffic in each territory which fall under
the several commodity groups are not only very similar
in the East, South, and West, but each group yields about
the same percentage of the total revenues in each of the
territories. The choice of groupings is plainly a specialized problem in transportation economics upon which the
Commission is peculiarly competent to pass. Its judgment that the differences in consists between the territories do not justify the present differences in interterritorial class rates is, indeed, an expert judgment entitled
to great weight. We could not disturb its findings on
the facts of this record without invading the province
reserved for the expert administrative body.
cent, the eastern, 28.51 per cent. Of the total tons of products of
forests originated in 1941, the respective percentages were 58.73 per
cent and 7.52 per cent. And for products of mines the percentages
were 33.31 per cent and 49.85 per cent, respectively.
28 The 1941 revenue ton miles per mile of line were as follows:
Eastern District (excluding Pocahontas) ................
Pocahontas Region ...................................
W estern District ....................................

3, 392, 964
7, 519, 840
1,358,041

NEW YORK v. UNITED STATES.
284

Opinion of the Court.

"As to the cost study little need be said concerning the
South. Once the integrity of the cost study is assumed,'
the finding of the Commission that there is little significant difference in the cost of furnishing transportation in
the South as compared with the East has support in the
facts. Moreover, the data on rates of return and freight
operating ratios, to which we will shortly refer, corroborate
the conclusion reached from the cost study that the differences in class rates between the East and the South
are not justified by territorial conditions. The finding
that the discrimination against the South is unlawful
under § 3 (1) is thus amply supported-a conclusion that
the southern carriers do not challenge here.
The question is a closer one when we turn to the West.
For, as we have seen, the costs in the West on the average
run higher than those in the East. Based on the year
1939 and the period 1930-1939, the cost of rendering transportation service in the West is between 5 and 10 per cent
higher than in the East, excluding Pocahontas. Based
on 1941, that difference is reduced to 5 per cent or less.
29Costs developed in the cost scales and the carriers' total known
expenses by cost territories were reconciled within a very close margin
as appears from the following table:
Aggregate ex-

penses, increased

Actual expenses

Ratio (percent)

costs to traffic

return (1939)

expenses

for a 4-percent re- as reported byofomueeturn computed carriers increased of cpted oata expne
for a 4-percent
by applying

Territory

handled (1939)

Eastern --------------------------Pocahontas ------------------------Southern------------------------Western --------------------------United States ----------------------

$1,426,950,260
183, 076, 590
450,448,155
1,382, 549, 982

$1,451,484,949
185, 387, 990
449, 001,663
1,395,188,845

98.3
98.8
100.3
99. 1

3,443,024,987

3,481,063,447

98.9

The Commission stated, "Judging from the above table, whatever
errors may exist in the .

.

. studies, they have not had the effect

of overstating or understating the carriers' costs in the aggregate to
any appreciable degree." 262 I. C. C. p. 587.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

As we have seen, the class rate structure is discriminatory as between the East and the West. The level of
class rates in the West is from 30 to 59 per cent higher
than that in the East. The problem of the Commission, therefore, was to determine whether that disparity
is justified by territorial conditions. The Commission
found that it was not so justified. The problem for us
is whether the Commission had a basis for its conclusion.
While the western roads vigorously challenge the Commission's finding, their argument is in the main directed
to the point that some disparity in rates between East
and West is justified by differing territorial costs. No
particular effort is made to prove that those costs are a
fair measure of the existing rate differences.
We start, of course, from the premise that on a subject
of transportation economics, such as this one, the Commission's judgment is entitled to great weight. The appraisal of cost figures is itself a task for experts, since
these costs involve many estimates and assumptions and,
unlike a problem in calculus, cannot be proved right or
wrong. They are, indeed, only guides to judgment.
Their weight and significance require expert appraisal.
The Commission has concluded that while cost studies
are highly relevant to these rate problems they are not
conclusive. It said in this case:
"Discretion and flexibility of judgment within reasonable limits have always attended the use of costs
in the making of rates. Costs alone do not determine
the maximum limit of rates. Neither do they control
the contours of rate scales or fix the relations between
rates or between rate scales. Other factors along
with costs must be considered and given due weight
in these aspects of rate making." 262 I. C. C. p.
693.
In appraising the cost figures relevant here the Commission proceeded on the assumption that the 1941 traffic

NEW YORK v. UNITED STATES.
284

Opinion of the Court.

level is most likely to prevail in the postwar period. It
therefore started with the assumption that the margin
of difference between the costs in the West and those in
the East was slight and not accurately measured by 1939
figures, and that if, as has been the fact," the freight carried in the West increased above that level the unit costs
of transportation in the West would be reduced to a greater
degree than those in the East, for reasons which we have
already stated.
The Commission also had before it certain data relative
to the financial condition of the various roads, data which
we have not yet discussed. Thus comparative analyses
of the rates of return of the roads in the several territories
showed that while the western roads have had many lean
years, the recent period has put them ahead of the roads
in the East. The following table shows the rates of return in percentages based on the net railway operating
income and the book investment, increased for cash,
materials and supplies:
1936

1937

1938

1939

1940

1941

1942

1943

Eastern district --.---

2.67

2.27

1.26

2.34

2.66

3.62

4:9

4.32

Southern region ------Pocahontas region...-

2.52

2.35

1.9

2.5

2.57

4.24

6.51

5.73

7.58
Western district ------- 1.88

6.61
1.71

4.54
1.09

5.89
1.65

6.21
2.06

6.67
3.36

5.29
5.8

5.22
5.22

The Commission also considered the territorial freight
operating ratios-the per cent of operating revenues from
freight absorbed by operating expenses attributed to the
freight.1 They are shown in the following table:
oIn the twelve months ended October 31, 1946, the revenue tons
carried in the West were 26 per cent higher than for the year 1941,

and the revenue ton miles were 43 per cent higher than in 1941.
31See White, Analysis of Railroad Operations (1946) pp. 14-15,

pp. 69, et seq.; Locklin, Economics of Transportation (1938) p. 581;
Miller, Inland Transportation (1933) pp. 500-502.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.
1936

331 U. S.

1937

1938

1939

1940

1941

1942

Eastern district-------64.95

67.86

68.98

64.88

63.92

63.04

61.93

66.23

Southern region..Pocahontas region ---

. 65.38
47.04

67.77
50.63

66.73[
53.59

64.99
50.71

65.34
49.77

61.07
48.12

56.84
49.62

59.41
52.86

6--65.07

66.93

67.13

65.01

63.63

6098

55.79

59.47

Western district -

1943

In light of such data the Commission said:
"Making due allowance for a substantial decline in
traffic from the war peak and for the fact that in the
decade preceding 1940 the earnings of the western
rail respondents were relatively low, nevertheless,
insofar as the prospects of traffic and revenues in the
immediate future can be foreseen, there is no reason
to conclude that the interim adjustment will have any
serious effect upon those respondents." 264 I. C. C.
63-64.
The Commission went on to note that intrastate class
rates generally in most of the western States and many
of the interstate class rates in western territory were
already lower than those prescribed in the interim orders.
It accordingly concluded that the western roads "cannot
consistently maintain these sub-normal class rates and
continue to maintain the relatively high basis of interstate
class rates . . . ." 264 I. C. C. p. 64.
Moreover, as we have already noted, class rates have
to a great extent fallen into disuse. This fact is relevant
here in two respects. In the first place, the orders of the
Commission affect class rates and class rates alone, the
Commission not dealing with exception and commodity
rates by the interim action which it has taken. So far as
present freight movement is concerned, the orders affect a
much smaller fraction of the traffic in the West than in
the East. The Commission said:
"The record does not support the contentions that
the revenue needs of the western rail respondents with

NEW YORK v. UNITED STATES.
Opinion of the Court.

284

respect to their class-rate traffic are greater than those
of the eastern rail respondents. From the carriers'
reports to us for the years 1942, 1943, as shown in
our original report, and 1944, it clearly appears that
there is a greater need for revenue by rail carriers
in the eastern district as compared with rail carriers
in the western district or in the southern region. The
report shows also that a much larger percentage of
the total traffic in the eastern district moves on class
rates than in the western district or in the southern
region." 264 I. C. C. pp. 64-65.
In the second place, the existing rate structure singles
out the class rate traffic in the West for the payment of
unusually high rates. The class rate traffic is largely
that of small shippers, who do not have the ability to
obtain the benefit of the lower exception or commodity
rates.
We cannot, therefore, treat this case as if it were one
where the Commission, in spite of a showing of some increased cost in the West, reduced all freight rates to a
level of equality with the East. It is a case of determining whether the discrimination against one small class
of traffic is warranted by the showing of some increased
cost in the West. The earning power of the carriers, their
freight operating ratios, their rates of return, the estimate
of the volume of traffic in the future, the nature and
amount of traffic presently involved in the class rate movements are all relevant to the finding of unlawful discrimination. We cannot say that these considerations do
not counterbalance or outweigh the disparity in costs between East and West. The appraisal of these numerous
factors is for transportation experts. They may err. But
the error, if any, is not of the egregious type which is
within our reach on judicial review.
As we have noted, Interstate Commerce Commission
v. Difienbaugh, supra, p. 46, held that the Act, in its
755552 0-48----25

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

condemnation of discrimination, "does not attempt to
equalize fortune, opportunities or abilities." But the
Commission made no such effort here. It eliminated inequalities in the class rates because it concluded that the
differences in them were not warranted by territorial conditions. We think that the findings supporting that conclusion are based on adequate evidence.
It is argued that the comparison of rates of return
and freight operating ratios overlooks the fact that both
reflect the higher freight revenue level that prevails in
the West. And it is urged that without the rate advantage which the western carriers now enjoy, any compari,son which now appears to favor the western carriers
would disappear. That argument assumes a constancy in
freight traffic and on that assumption could be mathematically demonstrated. But we are dealing here with
a problem of discrimination-a western rate structure
which, as compared with the eastern, is not warranted by
territorial conditions and which prejudices the growth and
development of the West. It would be a large order to
say that the removal of that trade barrier will have no
effect in increasing traffic. The assumption on which the
finding of prejudice is made is, indeed, to the contrary.
Moreover, that argument would protect a discriminatory
rate structure from the power of revision granted the Commission under § 3 (1) by the easy assumption that without
discrimination the carriers would not thrive. But that
flies in the face of history and is contrary to the Commission's expert judgment on these facts.
Sixth. An extended argument is made by the western
roads, challenging the class rate reduction on less-thancarload lots. The argument is twofold-first, that the
case of unlawful discrimination has not been made out
for this type of class rate traffic; second, that the new lessthan-carload class rates are confiscatory.

NEW YORK v. UNITED STATES.
284

Opinion of the Court.

We have referred to some of the cost figures on lessthan-carload lots. We have seen that those cost figures
run higher in the West than in the East; that even when
no constant costs common to all traffic are allocated to
less-than-carload traffic, the deficit in the West is substantially higher than that in the East. The Commission
noted that less-than-carload traffic as a whole is carried
at a deficit in all territories, except possibly in the South.
'It also noted that in all territories it was not bearing its
proper share of the costs of transportation; that, apart
from wartime loading, it was not yielding, on the average,
its out-of-pocket costs plus constant expenses solely related to less-than-carload traffic "2plus the cost of collection and delivery, in any territory except possibly the
Southern. 262 I. C. C. p. 697.
Little need be said concerning the argument that a case
of unlawful discrimination has not been established in
the case of less-than-carload traffic. The Commission
concluded that if less-than-carload class rates were left
unchanged while carload class rates in Southern, Southwestern and Western Trunk-Line territories were reduced
10 per cent, "the competitive relations between shippers
shipping in less-than-carload quantities and those shipping in carloads" would be materially affected. 264
I. C. C. p. 66. Less-than-carload traffic is less than 2 per
cent of total railroad freight tonnage, and much of that
moves, not on class rates, but on exception rates and commodity rates. In Western Trunk-Line and Southwestern
territories many intrastate and interstate class rates are
now voluntarily maintained on less-than-carload traffic
which are lower than the corresponding reduced interstate
class rates required by the interim orders. There are other
32

Constant costs solely related to less-than-carload traffic are those

costs which-do not vary with the volume of the traffic, but which
could be eliminated if no less-than-carload traffic were handled.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

circumstances, to which we will shortly advert, which reinforce the action of the Commission in reducing class rates
on less-than-carload traffic. But the ones we have mentioned are adequate to support the Commission on the
discrimination phase of the problem. The Commission
was dealing not with discrimination against a particular
commodity but with discrimination against entire regions.
It was a complete rate structure that was subject to inquiry
and revision. Once the Commission concluded that unlawful discrimination existed in the main features of that
rate structure, it was justified in removing it. In eliminating the discrimination and establishing the uniformity
required by the law, it was warranted in making minor
collateral readjustments so that the Commission itself
would not in turn create new discriminations. The adjustment of the less-than-carload class rates was permissible on that ground alone. The traffic affected was only
a fraction of 2 per cent of the total traffic. Without that
readjustment that class of traffic would be prejudiced.
With that readjustment the prejudice would be removed
and the entire rate structure-intrastate and interstatewould be more nearly rationalized.
That does not, of course, answer the argument on confiscation. The latter requires more extended treatment.
The western roads in their petition for rehearing before
the Commission raised the confiscation point. But in
doing so they rested on the record before the Commission
and tendered no additional evidence. In the District
Court, however, they presented further evidence which
was received over objection and considered by that
court.
This, therefore, is not a case like Baltimore & Ohio R.
,Co. v. United States, 298 U. S. 349, 363, 371-372, where
the Commission refused to receive evidence proffered on
the point of confiscation. Here, as we have said, the
Commission received all evidence that was offered; and

NEW YORK v. UNITED STATES.
284

Opinion of the Court.

when its order was announced and made known and the
petition for rehearing was filed, the opportunity to tender
additional evidence to bolster the confiscation point was
not accepted. As stated in Manufacturers R. Co. v.
United States, 246 U. S. 457, 489-490, and in St. Joseph
Stock Yards Co. v. United States, 298 U. S. 38, 53-54, correct practice requires that, where the opportunity exists,
all pertinent evidence bearing on the issues tendered the
Commission should be submitted to it in the first instance
and should not be received by the District Court as
though it were conducting a trial de novo. The reason
is plain enough. These problems of transportation economics are complicated and involved. For example, the
determination of transportation costs and their allocation
among various types of traffic is not a mere mathematical
exercise. Like other problems in cost accounting, it involves the exercise of judgment born of intimate knowledge of the particular activity and the making of adjustments and qualifications too subtle for the uninitiated.3
Moreover, the impact of a particular order on revenues
and the ability of the enterprise to thrive under it are matters for judgment on the part of those who know the
conditions which create the revenues and the flexibility
of managerial controls. For such reasons, we stated in
Board of Trade v. United States, 314 U. S. 534, 546:
"The process of rate making is essentially empiric.
The stuff of the process is fluid and changing-the
See Hamilton, Cost as a Standard for Price, 4 Law & Contemp.
Prob., 321,329:
"Now and then a hardy soul, equipped with simple faith and a calculating machine, essays the adventure of rates based upon the true
costs of particular services. The feat is, of course, technically impossible, for value judgments or empirical rules are essential to the distribution of overhead. A calculation of the real cost of transporting
cotton-seed in less than carload lots from Lampassas, Texas to Kankakee, Illinois, is a stubborn exercise in imputation."
83

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

resultant of factors that must be valued as well as
weighed. Congress has therefore delegated the enforcement of transportation policy to a permanent
expert body and has charged it with the duty of being
responsive to the dynamic character of transportation
problems."
Thus we think that if the additional evidence was necessary to pass on the issue of confiscation, the cause should
have been remanded to the Commission for a further
preliminary appraisal of the facts which bear on that
question. But we do not take that course here for reasons
which will shortly appear.
The Commission explained its finding that less-thancarload traffic was being carried at large deficits and was
not bearing its proper share of transportation costs. That
finding was based on the operation of the roads in 1939
when the average load per car of less-than-carload shipments amounted to only 4.3 tons in the West. Since 1939
there has been a substantial increase in the average loading of such shipments, which was brought about under
wartime conditions and which has materially decreased
the unit costs attributable to less-than-carload traffic. In
the judgment of the Commission it was not shown that
loadings in the immediate postwar period were likely to
decline to 1939 levels. Moreover, the cost data on less-than-carload traffic related to such traffic as a whole and
not solely to that moving on class rates. As we have
noted, much of this traffic moves not on class rates but on
exception rates and commodity rates. The class-rate
traffic bears the highest rates. The past failure of this
traffic, as a whole, to carry its proper share of the costs
may well have been due in large measure to the maintenance of exception and commodity rates.
The western roads present elaborate analysis (based
both on the Commission's cost figures and on costs as
adjusted by the evidence introduced in the District Court)

NEW YORK v. UNITED STATES.
284

Opinion of the Court.

which shows less-than-carload traffic largely carried at
deficits irrespective of the class rate paid under the interim
orders. They contend that the loading figure of 4.3 tons
is the only reliable one to use in projecting the costs and
revenues into the postwar period, since it was in fact the
average loading prior to the war, and will be once more,
as soon as the order of the Office of Defense Transportation
which requires ten-ton loading is revoked. And computations are presented based on that figure which show
deficits in less-than-carload traffic, deficits which are increased when the Commission's cost figures are adjusted to
reflect cost increases to January 1, 1946. All of those
computations include as constant costs only those which
related to this traffic. And it is pointed out that if all
constant costs were included, the computed deficits would
substantially increase.
On the other hand the Commission shows that on the
basis of the new interim rates this traffic in the West would
produce revenues in excess of out-of-pocket expenses plus
4 per cent return plus collection and delivery expenses
plus loss and damage payments. That computation is
based on a ten-ton loading figure. And on the basis of
those types of costs, there is an excess of revenue even
though the costs are increased to the January 1, 1946 level.
The 1939 less-than-carload costs I in the West were 30
per cent greater than revenues from all such traffic. If
the class-rate portion of less-than-carload traffic is taken,
the costs are 81 per cent of the revenues, provided certain
adjustments are made: (1) increased revenues from the
increase in the minimum charge per shipment from 55 to
75 cents which the Commission authorized in this proceeding; (2) the elimination of less-than-carload traffic moving on exception, commodity, and intrastate rates; (3) a
10-ton load; and (4) a 2.47 per cent rate of return, which
was the actual rate of return of 1939.
3

Out-of-pocket costs plus solely related constant costs.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

We do not stop to analyze the various computations in
order to ascertain the exact relation between revenues
and costs of less-than-carload traffic. That, indeed,
would not be feasible on this record. For even the
Commission made no attempt to determine what share
of all costs should fairly be allocated to less-than-carload
traffic. Hence, if the Commission had spoken its final
word, and if it were believed necessary as a matter of
constitutional law, see Northern Pacific R. Co. v. North
Dakota, 236 U. S. 585; cf. Federal Power Commission v.
Hope Natural Gas Co., 320 U. S. 591, 602, to fix a lessthan-carload class rate which produced a fair return on
that particular traffic, the case would have to be remanded
to the Commission for appropriate findings on this phase.
The difficulty *of treating the issue on the present record
is illustrated in another way. Less-than-carload traffic,
more than carload traffic, carries costs which to a degree
are dependent on the carrier. Heavy or light loadings,
speed of service, ratio of empty return cars, methods of
loading freight so as to reduce damage claims, substitution of auxiliary truck service and the like turn on competitive conditions. Certainly rates need not compensate
carriers for the most expensive way of handling less-thancarload service. Yet the present findings do not illuminate that problem nor provide the standard in terms of
service for measuring the compensatory character of the
less-than-carload class rates. And on such a problem the
Commission's highest expert judgment would be called
into play.
But the Commission has not finished with this problem.
In the first place, as we point out hereafter, the Commission, subsequent to the issuance of these interim orders,
granted a nationwide increase in freight rates, including
an increase on less-than-carload rates. The temporary
injunction has prevented the interim orders reducing class
rates in the West by 10 per cent from going into effect.

NEW YORK v. UNITED STATES.
284

Opinion of the Court.

When, therefore, the interim orders do go into effect, the
actual rates chargeable presumably will be increased from
the level fixed by the interim orders to the level prescribed
by the recent order increasing all freight rates. Thus no
loss has been suffered by the 10 per cent reduction on
less-than-carload class rates; and any loss which would
have been suffered by that rate reduction has probably
been at least lessened, if not eliminated, by the general
rate increase. Though it is argued that such is not the
case, the showing is too speculative on this record for
us to decide what the precise effect of the revised class
rates on less-than-carload traffic will be. In the second
place, as we have noted, the Commission made the present interim adjustment of class rates on less-than-carload
traffic as a consequence of its reduction in carload class
rates so that less-than-carload shippers would not suffer
a disadvantage from the removal of the major discrimination in the class rate structure. The interim or temporary nature of the adjustment was recognized by the
Commission when it admonished the carriers "to give
careful consideration to the rates maintained by them
on less-than-carload traffic with a view to making readjustments in ratings or rates, as promptly as possible,
which will insure that the rates on such traffic are on
a compensatory level." 264 I. C. C. 66-67. And it
recognized but left untouched the problem of determining what would be the proper share of transportation
costs to be borne by less-than-carload traffic.
The justification the Commission had for leaving the
problem in that condition at this stage of the proceedings
is apparent. The carriers are now preparing the new uni'form classification. They have it within their power to
follow the lead suggested by the Commission and to propose classification differences between carload and lessthan-carload traffic which will obviate any issue of
confiscation respecting less-than-carload rates. And it

340

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

has likewise left open the question of readjustment of the
class rates on less-than-carload traffic when the total
program, of which these interim orders are but a part,
is put into effect.
Where the result of a rate order is not clearly shown
to be confiscatory but its precise effect must await operations under it, the Court has refused to set it aside despite
grave doubts as to its consequences. See Knoxville v.
Knoxville Water Co., 212 U. S. 1, 17-18. And see Willcox
v. Consolidated Gas Co., 212 U. S. 19, 54-55; Darnell v.
Edwards, 244 U. S. 564, 570; Brush Electric Co. v. Galveston, 262 U. S. 443, 446; St. Joseph Stock Yards Co. v.
United States, supra, p. 69. The reasons for following a
like course are equally impelling here. The Commission
has not placed the western roads in a strait jacket. It
has made an interim reduction on less-than-carload class
rates as an incident to its removal of discriminations in
carload class rates. It has indicated the course to be followed by the carriers, as a part of the overall classification and class rate problem, to make certain that these
rates are compensatory. We are thus dealing with a
problem which is in flux, an' interim order made necessary
as a result of a comprehensive revision of entire rate structures. Moreover, the conclusion to be drawn from the
recent general increase in freight rates is too uncertain
and speculative on this record for us to pass on the confiscation issue. See Brush Electric Co. v. Galveston,
supra. The District Court amply protected appellants
when it overruled their claim that the interim rates are
confiscatory without prejudice to another suit to challenge
the legality of those rates if, after a fair test, they prove
to be below the lowest reaches of a reasonable minimum
or if the permanent rates do not meet that standard. See
Darnellv. Edwards, supra,p. 570.
Seventh. It was held in Texas & Pacific R. Co. v. United
States, supra, p. 650, that where the Commission makes

NEW YORK v. UNITED STATES.
284

Opinion of the Court.

an order under § 3 to remove an unlawful discrimination,
the carriers must be afforded the opportunity to "abate
the discrimination by raising one rate, lowering the
other, or altering both." But that ruling was qualified
by the statement that the Commission need not follow
that course in case it acts under § 15 (1). Id., p. 650,
note 39. Section 1 (5) (a) of the Act provides that all
charges for the transportation of property "shall be just
and reasonable, and every unjust and unreasonable
charge for such service or any part thereof is prohibited
and declared to be unlawful." And see § 1 (4). Section
1'5 (1) provides that when the Commission finds that
1(any individual or joint rate, fare, or charge" of a common
carrier is "unjust or unreasonable or unjustly discriminatory or unduly preferential or prejudicial," the Commission may determine and prescribe "what will be the just
and reasonable" rate. And see § 15 (3). The words
"unjustly discriminatory or unduly preferential or prejudicial" plainly refer to practices condemned by § 3 (1).
A proper finding of unlawful discrimination under § 3 (1)
thus enables the Commission not only to direct the carriers to eliminate the practice but also, pursuant to § 15, to
prescribe the alternative. See Youngstown Sheet & Tube
Co. v. United States,, 295 U. S.476. Thus the Commission
in this type of situation, as in the case where intrastate
commerce is involved, Georgia Public Service Commission
v. United States, 283 U. S.765, may remove unlawful discriminations and prescribe new rates.
In Texas & Pacific R. Co. v. United States, supra,p. 650,
it was also stated that, "A carrier or group of carriers
must be the common source of the discrimination-must
effectively participate in both rates, if an order for the
correction of the disparity is to run against it or them."
And it was held in Central R. Co. v. United States, 257
U. S.247, 259, that mere participation in joint rates does
not make connecting carriers partners in discrimination;

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
IOpinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

that they-can be held responsible'for unjust discrimination
only if each carrier has participated in some way in the
practice which causes the discrimination, "as where a
lower joint rate is given to one locality than to another
similarly situated." It is argued that the same rule applies in this case since, for example, the western carriers
have no control of or participation in the lower Official
intraterritorial rates, although they do participate in the
joint or through interterritorial rates.
In reply it..is said that carriers in Official Territory control rates wit Jhhat area and also control, jointly with the
carriers in each of the other territories, the rates from each
of them into Official. That common source of discrimination is said to be sufficient to sustain the Commission's
action. See St. Louis Southwestern R. Co. v. United
States, 245 U. S. 136; Chicago, I. & L. R. Co. v. United
States, 270 U. S. 287. But we do not need to decide the
question. For the principle announced in Central R. Co.
v. United States and Texas & Pacific R. Co. v. United
States, supra, is applicable only where the Commission is
directing the carriers to remove the discrimination. Those
cases hold that the Commission may not require carriers to
do what they are powerless to perform. But the Court
recognized in Central R. Co. v. United States, supra,
p. 257, that where the Commission acts pursuant to § 1 to
require carriers to establish, in connection with through
routes and joint rates, reasonable rules and regulations,
that problem is not involved. For then the Commission
corrects the unlawful discriminatory practice in the case of
each carrier by prescribing the just and reasonable rate
or practice. The same is true where, as here, the Commission in order to eliminate territorial discriminations
proceeds under § 15 (1) to fix new reasonable rates. If
the hands of the Commission are tied and it is powerless
to protect r-egio~s and territories from discrimination unless all rates involved in the rate relationship are con-

NEW YORK v. UNITED STATES.
284

Opinion of the Court.

trolled by the same carriers, then the 1940 amendment
to § 3 (1) fell far short of its goal. We do not believe
Congress left the Commission so impotent.
It may not be said in this case, as it was held in Texas
& Pacific R. Co. v. United States, supra, p. 633, that there
was no evidence of the unreasonableness of the rates, or
that that question was not in issue. The Commission
here found that the rates were unjust and unreasonable
under § 1 and it proceeded to fix new rates under § 15 (1).
'"iYbfacts which establish that the differences in rates as
between the several territories are not warranted by territorial conditions plainly sustain its findings under § 1.
As we have said, this proceeding pertains only to class
rates, which move but a small percentage of the traffic.
It is, therefore, argued that the Commission should not
have made adjustments in those rates without bringing
about some equalization of exception and commodity rates
under which the bulk of the traffic is moved. But there
is no reason in law why the Commission need tackle all
evils in the rate structure or none. It may take one step
at a time. Cf. United States v. Wabash R. Co., 321 U. S.
403. The 10 per cent interim rate order did not attempt
to bring about complete elimination of the discriminatory
features of the class rate structure. It was only an approximation of that result, the complete step awaiting
the new uniform classification. But the reasons justifying that partial measure likewise support the action of
the Commission in commencing with class rates when it
tackled the problem of territorial discriminations.
Eighth. A different problem is presented when we turn
to the 10 per cent increase in class rates which the Commission prescribed for Official Territory. Appellants
strenuously urge that this action of the Commission was
unauthorized under the Act, even if the other portions
of its orders were justified.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

The finding of the Commission on this phase of the
case was that the present class rates in Official Territory
were below a just and reasonable level and should be
increased 10 per cent as a part of the adjustment of the
rate structure in order to remove the unlawfulness both
as respects their unreasonable low level and their unduly
preferential character. 262 I. C. C. 700-701, 704-705;
264 I. C. C. 62. That finding is said to be without support in the record and to lack the preliminary findings
necessary to support it.
It is argued that rates are not unreasonably low in violation of § 1 unless they are either noncompensatory or
otherwise threaten harmful effects upon the revenues and
transportation efficiency of the carriers in question, or
of their competitors. It is said, as is the fact, that no
such findings were made by the Commission and that
on this record, there are no facts which could support such
a finding.
If this were a case of determining whether existing rates
passed below the lowest or above the highest reaches of
reasonableness, the point might be well taken.35 See
United States v. Chicago, M., St. P. & P. R. Co., 294 U. S.
499, 506. But we do not have here such a revenue problem. This case presents problems in rate relationships,
that is to say, problems of a discriminatory rate structure
condemned by § 3 (1). The Commission may remove a
discrimination effected by rates, even when they are
within the zone of reasonableness, if the discrimination is
forbidden by § 3 (1). As Mr. Justice Brandeis stated in
United States v. Illinois Central R. Co., supra, p. 524, the
35 The point might also be well taken if this were a proceeding
under § 13 (4) to determine whether intrastate traffic was producing
its fair share of the earnings required to meet maintenance and
operating costs and to yield a fair return on the property devoted
to interstate and intrastate transportation. Floridav. United States,
supra; United States v. Louisiana, 290 U. S. 70; North Carolina v.
United States, supra.

NEW YORK v. UNITED STATES.
284

Opinion of the Court.

mere fact that one rate is "inherently reasonable, and
that the rate from competing points is not shown to be
unreasonably low, does not establish that the discrimination is just. Both rates may lie within the zone of reasonableness and yet result in undue prejudice." The
Commission has the power to adjust the rates upwards
and downwards, within that zone, in order to eradicate
the discrimination. That power is not unlimited; there
are standards which control its exercise. But as we shall
see, the Commission acted within permissible limits
here.
Once the Commission has found rates to be "unjust
or unreasonable or unjustly discriminatory or unduly
preferential or prejudicial," it is empowered to prescribe rates which are "just and reasonable" or "the maximum or minimum, or maximum and minimum, to be
charged . . . ." § 15 (1). In Youngstown Sheet & Tube
Co. v. United States, supra, the Commission, acting under
§ 15 (1), increased rail rates by prescribing what it found
to be reasonable minimum rates. There was no finding
that the existing, lower rates were not compensatory. The
finding of reasonableness was premised on the grounds
that "lower rates would create undue discrimination
against shippers in origin districts who cannot use the
water-rail route, and would tend to disrupt the rate structure, and to destroy the proper differentials between various producing districts on shipments to Ohio destinations."
P. 479. The Commission relied not only on evidence bearing upon the character of the service and cost but also on
a comparison of other rates in the same or adjacent territory. The Court sustained the order saying, "The existing
rate structure furnished support for the finding of reasonableness." P. 480. In Scandrett v. United States, 32 F.
Supp. 995, 996, aff'd 312 U. S. 661, the Commission had
found that proposed reduced rates were "compensatory,
considering all costs" but that they were below a minimum

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

reasonable level and therefore unlawful. It took that action to prevent destructive competition between rail,
water, and motor carriers. The court sustained the order.

And see Jefferson Island Salt Min. Co. v. United States,
6 F. 2d 315.
These cases, to be sure, recognize the power of the
Commission so to fix minimum rates as to keep in competitive balance the various types of carriers and to prevent ruinous rate wars between them. That plainly is
one of the objectives of the Act, and one of the reasons
why the Commission was granted the power to fix minimum rates by the Transportation Act of 1920. See H. R.
Rep. No. 456, 66th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 19. Cf. Mississippi
Valley Barge Co. v. United States, 292 U. S. 282. But the
elimination of discrimination occupies an equally high
place in the statutory scheme. And, as we have said, the
power granted the Commission under § 15 (1) includes the
power to prescribe rates which will substitute lawful for
discriminatory rate structures. If the Commission were
powerless to increase rates to a reasonable minimum in
order to eliminate an unlawful discrimination, unless existing rates were shown to be non-compensatory or unless
ruinous competition would result, it would in some cases
be powerless to prescribe the remedy for unlawful practices. The present case is a good illustration. A 10 per
cent reduction of rates in the South and West would
remove only part of the discrimination. On this record
it is most doubtful that a full reduction of those rates
to the level of Official Territory would be warranted. Yet
if the rates in Official Territory may not be increased
unless the present ones are shown to be non-compensatory,
discrimination against the South and West and in favor
of Official Territory would continue to thrive. For shippers in Official Territory would still have a preferred rate,
as compared with shippers from the South and West, in
reaching the great markets of the East-a preference not

NEW YORK v. UNITED STATES.
284

Opinion of the Court.

shown to be warranted by territorial conditions. The
raising of rates to a reasonable minimum was, therefore,
as relevant here as it was in Youngstown Sheet & Tube
Co. v. United States, supra, to the Commission's task of
providing a rational rate structure.
The authority of the Commission to increase rates in
order to remove discrimination, even though existing rates
may be compensatory, is not unlimited. Section 15a (2)
of the Act provides:
"In the exercise of its power to prescribe just and
reasonable rates the Commission shall give due consideration, among other factors, to the effect of rates
on the movement of traffic by the carrier or carriers
for which the rates are prescribed; to the need, in
the public interest, of adequate and efficient railway
transportation service at the lowest cost consistent
with the furnishing of such service; and to the need
of revenues sufficient to enable the carriers, under
honest, economical, and efficient management to provide such service."
The balancing and weighing of these interests is a delicate
task. "Whether a discrimination in rates or services of
a carrier is undue or unreasonable has always been regarded as peculiarly a question committed to the judgment of the administrative body, based upon an appreciation of all the facts and circumstances affecting the
traffic." Swayne & Hoyt, Ltd. v. United States, 300 U. S.
297, 304. And see United States v. Chicago Heights
Trucking Co., 310 U. S. 344, 352-353; Barringer & Co. v.
United States, 319 U. S. 1, 6-7. We may assume, however, that if the rates of return of the eastern carriers
were substantially above that for the South and the
West, an increase of the rates for the former would not
be permissible, even in order to remove a discrimination. But, as we have seen, the rate of return in recent
755552 0-48-26

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

years 3' has favored the southern and western carriers, as
have the freight operating ratios. The Commission took
those factors, as well as the others we have reviewed, into
consideration in determining that an increase in rates in
Official Territory was warranted. 264 I. C. C. 61-62.
Revenue needs, like costs of rendering the transportation service, are germane to the question whether differences in territorial rate structures are justified by territorial conditions. They are amongst the standards written
into § 15a; they reflect the totality of conditions under
which the carriers in the respective territories operate.
Should the Commission fail to consider them in determining whether the discrimination inherent in the rate struc3 As we point out hereafter, after the present interim orders were
issued, the Commission granted a general freight rate increase. See
Ex parte No. 162, note 37, infra. In that case it reviewed the
rates of return of the roads in the several territories based on the rates
in effect at the time, which of course did not include the 10 per cent
increase in class rates for Official Territory authorized in this proceeding but stayed by the District Court. What the Commission said
in Ex parte No. 162 corroborates its finding in the present case concerning the greater relative revenue needs of the roads in Official
Territory:
"On the basis of the interim rates in effect since July 1, 1946, the
rate of return for the eastern district will be considerably less for
1946 than in the Pocahontas region, the southern region, or the
western district, even though an additional increase of 5 percent
in certain rates in official territory was authorized and has been in
effect since July 1, 1946. It also appears that even on the basis of
the increases sought in Ex Parte No. 162 and the railroads' estimates
of revenue, the rate of return in the eastern district for 1946 will
be less than the rate of return in the Pocahontas region, the southern
region, or the western district." 266 I. C. C. 548.
The latter estimates of the rate of return in per cent are as follows:
Eastern District ..........................................
Pocahontas Region .......................................
Southern Region .........................................
W estern District .........................................

2.06
6. 26
4.01
3.31

NEW YORK v. UNITED STATES.
284

Opinion of the Court.

tures was unwarranted, it would have not completed its
task. There may be differences of opinion concerning the
weight to be given those factors, especially the weight to be
given the rate of return in the current years as opposed to
that in the preceding decade. But their significance is for
the Commission to determine; and, though we had doubts,
we would usurp the administrative function of the Commission if we overruled it and substituted our own appraisal of these factors.
Ninth. After the present interim orders were issued, the
Commission granted a nationwide increase in all freight
rates. 7 It is argued that this rate increase has rendered
the interim orders with which we are here concerned
obsolete and unenforcible. It is said that in making the
general rate increase, the Commission found greatly different conditions affecting transportation rates from those
it found in these proceedings; that the greater increases
allowed in Official Territory ' undo the uniformity policy
on which the interim orders are framed; and that the
enforcement of the interim orders in light of these changed
conditions would produce results plainly not contemplated.
This is not a case where by reason of changed conditions
the record is stale. The changed circumstances do not
affect the issues here. Cf. Interstate Commerce Commission v. Jersey City, 322 U. S. 503, 515; United
States v. Pierce Auto Lines, 327 U. S. 515, 535. To repeat,
37 Ex parte No. 162, interim report 264 I. C. C. 695, final report
December 5, 1946, 266 I. C. C. 537. This increased most basic
freight rates by 15 to 25 per cent. Rates on articles under the general commodity grouping of Manufactures and Miscellaneous, class
rates and rates on less-than-carload and any-quantity traffic were
increased 25 per cent in Official Territory, 20 per cent within and
between other territories, and 22.5 per cent between Official Territory
and points in other territories. Express rates were increased October
28, 1946. Ex parteNo. 163, 266 I. C. C. 369.
38 See note 37, supra.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

this is a proceeding to eliminate territorial rate differences
not justified by territorial conditions. The general rate
increase recently granted by the Commission was a revenue proceeding. Revenue adjustments can be and are
superimposed on such rate structures as exist. The fact
that revenue adjustments may produce lack of uniformity
in rates is not inconsistent with the decision in the present
case. As we said earlier, § 3 (1) does not dictate a policy
of national uniformity in rates; it only requires that the
lack of uniformity in rates among and between territories
be justified by territorial conditions. The finding of the
Commission, if supported by evidence, that the revenue
needs of carriers in one territory demand a lower or a
higher rate in that territory is a justification for a difference in rates as between that territory and other territories. The order of the Commission granting the general
rate increase is not before us and we intimate no opinion
on it. ' It is sufficient for our present purposes to say that
it emphasizes the distinction between revenue and raterelationship cases and in no way impairs the finding in
the present case that the existing class-rate structure
that has prevailed in the several territories stands condemned under § 3 (1). Nor is there any inherent inconsistency between the interim orders reducing class rates
and the recent order increasing all rates. The latter was
based on conditions in a period subsequent to the discrimination proceedings. Whether the general rate increase will require adjustments in the new permanent
uniform scale which awaits the new uniform classification
is a question for the Commission when the new classification is ready.39
3' That the order granting the general freight rate increase did
not affect the orders in the present proceeding is made clear by the
following provision:
"That outstanding unexpired orders in other proceedings are hereby
modified so as to permit the increases in freight rates and charges

NEW YORK v. UNITED STATES.
284

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

Other issues raised by appellants need not be discussed.
The injunction staying the orders of the Commission is
vacated and the judgment of the District Court dismissing
the petitions is
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER,

dissenting.

In a case involving issues much narrower than those
now here, the Court, only the other day, struck down
an order of the Interstate Commerce Commission for want
of adequate findings. Interstate Commerce Commission
v. Mechling, 330 U. S. 567, at 583. Although in that
case there were explicit findings, the Court deemed them
inadequate because they were based on "unsifted averages." In a series of cases the Court has set aside
orders of the Interstate Commerce Commission because
of the failure of the Commission to ascertain and to
formulate with clarity and definiteness the transportation and economic circumstances which alone could
justify the order, and thereby afford this Court assured
basis for concluding that the Commission had duly exercised its allowable judgment on the factors underlying
the ultimate issues. See Florida v. United States, 282
U. S. 194; United States v. Baltimore & Ohio R. Co.,
293 U. S. 454; Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe R. Co. v.
United States, 29.5 U. S. 193; United States v. Carolina
Freight Carriers Corp., 315 U. S. 475; City of Yonkers
v. United States, 320,U. S. 685; Eastern-CentralMotor
Carriers Association v. United States, 321 U. S. 194;
North Carolinav. United States, 325 U. S. 507; Alabama
herein authorized to be established; Provided, however, that the provisions of this paragraph shall not be construed to suspend or supersede or modify or affect the findings and order entered in Class Rate
Investigation, 1939, Docket No. 28300, the operation of which is
stayed by court order . .. ."
Sec Ex parte No. 162, supra, note 37.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

331 U. S.

v. United States, 325 U. S. 535. Not one of these cases
involved an order having a reach comparable to the reach
of the order now before us. We are asked to sustain
an order that readjusts the class rates of the whole country
barring only the territory west of the Rockies-an order
that changes not only the rates within the various rate
territories in this vast region, but changes the relation
of the rates inter-territorially. I am not unmindful of
the complicated nature of the problem which confronted
the Commission, of the empiric character of the process
of rate-making, of the limited scope for judicial review
in this process, of the respect to be accorded to the Commission's conclusions. Board of Trade v. United States,
314 U. S. 534. But when the outcome of legal issues is
bound to cut deeply into economic relations on such a
scale, it is not asking too much to ask the Commission to
be explicit and definite in its findings on the elementsthat are indispensable to the validity of its order.
When inter-territorial discrimination is complained of,
at least two basic issues confront the Commission: (1) Is
there discrimination? (2) If there is, how is the discrimination to be abated? The Commission cannot eliminate
discrimination-i. e., harmonize the rate relations between
territories-in disregard of the reasonableness of the readjusted rates within each territory. The Interstate Commerce Act must be applied in its entirety and the different
sections which make an articulated whole cannot be
treated disjointedly. Such is the teaching of our cases,
especially of Texas & Pacific R. Co. v. Abilene Cotton Oil
Co., 204 U. S. 426, and Intermountain Rate Cases, 234
U. S. 476-the two cases which beyond all others give
the controlling considerations in construing the Interstate
Commerce Act.
And so the Commission is not empowered to remove
discrimination between two territories without at the same
time considering whether the remedies proposed for such

NEW YORK v. UNITED STATES.
284

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

removal fit the requirement of reasonableness of rates.
It may not lower the rates in a territory beyond the level
which gives the carriers an income sufficient to enable them
to operate effectively as part of the nation's transportation'
system. And the Commission may not raise rates to a
level which would exact freight charges from shippers
beyond a rate structure that is reasonable. The small proportion of freight that moves on class rates is no measure
of the importance of those rates to the total earnings of
carriers. -Unreasonable rates-whether unreasonably
high or unreasonably low-even on a fraction of the
freight, may make the difference between earnings to
which carriers are entitled under the Interstate Commerce
Act and those to which they are not entitled for discharging their duty as part of the national transportation
system.] We are without informing findings on these issues. -1ut even if one were to consider questions of discrimination in isolation, inequality-the essence of discrimination-cannot be dealt with mechanically by taking
a percentage off one territory and adding it to another.
The Procrustean bed is not a symbol of equality. It is no
less inequality to have equality among unequals. The
findings do not reveal how it happened that putting 10%
on and taking 10% off respectively will beget just the right
adjustment. I am not suggesting that one might not dig
out of the record inexplicit, argumentative support for the
view-that an increase of 10% in Official Classification Territory rates will still leave the level of rates within that
Territory not unreasonable, and that a decrease of 10%
in Western Territory will leave the carriers the required
reasonableness of rates within that Territory. But it is
not conducive to a fair administration of the Interstate
Commerce Act, nor is it consonant with the proper discharge of this Court's task, to require us to dig out indications or evidence giving appropriate answer to these issues
from a record consisting of nearly 13,000 pages spread over

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

331 U. S.

21 volumes, which led to a report by the Commission of
320 pages.
The District Court acknowledged the absence of finding
on such issues. Said the court: "it has been argued that
there can be no increase in class rates in Official Territory
unless there is first a so-called primary finding, supported
by substantial evidence that the present rates are not
compensatory. While that fact, if proved, would have
been of much significance the failure to prove it and the
consequent lack of a finding that present rates are confiscatory does not leave the Commission's finding that the
rates are unlawful unsupported by substantial evidence."
65 F. Supp. 856, 873. But the fact that the rates in Of'
ficial Territory may, as a matter of abstract comparison,
be out of line with the rates in Western or Southern Territory is hardly proof that the rates in Official Territory
should be increased by the same flat percentage as the
rates in the other territories should be decreased. Such
a flat increase in Official Territory may make the proposed
new rates unlawful because unreasonable. While a 10%
decrease in rates in Western Territory may eliminate unfairness to shippers in that territory, it does not follow that
a corresponding 10% increase in Official Territory rates
will not result in unfairness to shippers there.
One can hardly read the concurring and dissenting views
to the Commission's Report without being left with uncertainty regarding the basis of the Commission's order.
"The report does not show, except in nebulous fashion,
that the cost figures represent apportionment of totals,
based on estimates; that they involve many assump.tions and acts of judgment; and are not computations
from direct, original cost figures for particular movements. These, however, are the facts. It omits
evidence showing that 59 out of 117 items of basic
-data used in the studies were estimated, and that 458
out of 500 sequences were wholly or partly estimated.

NEW YORK v. UNITED STATES.
284

FRANKFURTER,

J., dissenting.

It fails to disclose clearly that when making the
studies it was assumed that the consist of the traffic
is the same in the different territories, when the fact
is, as I have pointed out, that the traffic consist differs
widely in the respective territories. The result is
that theoretical costs are produced, based upon assumptions which are not facts, and upon comparisons
of unlike things." (Commissioner Porter, dissenting,
262 I. C. C. 447, 709, 717; and see dissenting views of
Commissioner Barnard, id. at 725.)
According to two of the Commissioners the record is wholly
inadequate to support a finding that class rates within
Official Territory are unreasonable under § 1 of the Act.
See 264 I. C. C. 69-70. Certainly the Commission did not
make an explicit finding that they are unreasonable. If
there is any such finding, it must be sought for as would
a needle in a haystack. The Commission's order ought
not to be allowed to rest on such dubious foundations.
Nor can such a mechanical or abstractly mathematical
readjustment of rates inter-territorially be justified as
a tentative adjustment. Of course, the Commission may
generalize a sufficient number of typical instances and
make a flat readjustment within a territory, leaving instances of unreasonableness to be taken out of such an
order upon individual application. This is what the Commission did, and what this Court sustained, in the New
England Divisions Case, 261 U. S. 184. The order in
that case, directing a 15% increase in the share of the
New England railroads in the joint through-freight rates,
was based upon evidence "which the Commission assumed was typical in character, and ample in quantity,
to justify the finding made in respect to each division of
each rate of every carrier." 261 U. S. at 196-97. The
Court found that the established practice in rate litigation,
the nature of the hearing before the Commission, the evidence submitted, the findings made, the opportunities to

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
FRANKFURTER,

331 U. S.

J., dissenting.

apply for modifications in typical situations, amply supported the Commission's findings. The present record, as
reflected in the Commission's report, does not present a
comparable situation. One gets the impression that the
adjustment of a flat 10% decrease in the rates outside the
Official Territory and a flat increase of 10% within that
Territory is attributable, fundamentally, to a laudable desire on the part of the Commission to secure uniform classification throughout the country. The Commission was
not prepared to make such a classification, but it made
these rate changes in the hope that they would exert pressure on the carriers to agree upon a uniform classification.
It is in relation to that hope that it is urged that the order
is merely a conditional or tentative order-conditioned
upon agreement by the carriers upon a uniform classification. But to condition the order on the realization of that
hope is to condition it, if experience be any guide, on the
Greek kalends.
What this Court said in United States v. Chicago, Milwaukee, St. Paul & Pacific R. Co., 294 U. S. 499, 510-11,
involving a rate adjustment within a very limited territory, with no such far-reaching consequences as the order
now under review, has enhanced applicability to the present order of the Commission. "We would not be understood as saying that there do not lurk in this report phrases
or sentences suggestive of a different meaning. One gains
at places the impression that the Commission looked upon
the proposed reduction [initiated by a carrier] as something more than a disruptive tendency .

. .

. The dif-

ficulty is that it has not said so with the simplicity and
clearness through which a halting impression ripens into
reasonable certitude. In the end we are left to spell out,
to argue, to choose between conflicting inferences. Something more precise is requisite. in the quasi-jurisdictional
findings of an administrative agency. Beaumont, S. L.
& W. Ry. Co. v. United States, 282 U. S.74, 86; Floridav.

NEW YORK v. UNITED STATES.
284

JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

United States, 282 U. S. 194, 215. We must know what
a decision means before the duty becomes ours to say
whether it is right or wrong."
Administrative experts no doubt have antennae not
possessed by courts charged with reviewing their action.
And so it may well be that to the expert feel the justifiable
correction of an imbalance between Official Territory rates
and the rates of other territories is a shift of 10% in the
respective rates-Official Territory rates increased 10%
and rates elsewhere decreased 10%. But courts, charged
as they are with the review of the. action of the Commission, ought not to be asked to sustain such a mathematical
coincidence as a matter of unillumined faith in the conclusion of the experts.
I would reverse the decree and order the proceedings
returned to the Interstate Commerce Commission.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON,

dissenting.

I find it impossible to agree with this extraordinary
decision. I will discuss but one of its phases-that which
is treated in subdivision Eighth of the Court's opinion.
This holds that the Interstate Commerce Commission has,
and rightfully has exercised, the power to add 10% to
certain basic freight rates affecting the Northeastern part
of the United States. This increase was not asked by
the railroads, goes to the prosperous and the insolvent
ones alike, and is not even claimed tobe necessary to pay
the cost of service and a fair return on the property used
in rendering it. This additional assessment is in no sense
compensation for handling the traffic which the railroads
concede was adequately compensated before. It is really a
surtax, see Brandeis, J., in New England Divisions Case,
261 U. S.184, 196, added solely to increase shipping costs in
the Northeastern part of the United States for the purpose
of handicapping its economy and in order to make transportation cost as much there as it does in areas where there

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

331 U. S.

is less traffic to divide the cost. The surcharge burdens
the territory where fifty percent of the consuming population of the United States resides by adding an estimated
$15,000,000 per year to its shipping bills. It adds that
much to the revenues of the Northeastern railroads with
no showing or finding that it is needed to meet costs of
furnishing railroad service.
The most important reason advanced for sustaining
this order is the claim that this surcharge is to cure a
discrimination in favor of the Northeastern territory
against the South and West. Briefly and generally,
the discrimination is said to consist in this: Mile for
mile, a higher average charge is made for transportation
under the present classifications in the more sparsely
settled areas of the South and West than is made in
the denser traffic regions of the Northeast. Why, then,
should not the alleged discrimination be removed by lowering the high rates of the South and West? The answer
is that they cannot be reduced further than the ten percent
already ordered in this proceeding, because the railroads
of the South and West, in view of their costs, could not
bear further decrease. So the only other way of equalizing the rates and making it as costly to move goods there
as anywhere in the United States, is to make the shippers
in the Northeastern territory pay the railroads this additional 10% which they have not asked and do not need.
The Court's approval of this order is based on an entirely new theory of "discrimination." It has never
before been thought to be an unlawful discrimination to
charge more for a service which it cost more to render.
Discrimination heretofore has been found to exist only
when an unequal charge was exacted for a like service,
or vice versa. But now it is held to be an unlawful discrimination if railroads of the Northeast do not make the
same charge as other railroads in the South or West, for
a different transportation under different cost conditions.

NEW YORK v. UNITED STATES.
284

JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

The Government frankly advocates this new concept of
discrimination as necessary to some redistribu tion of population in relation to resources that will reshape the nation's
social, economic and perhaps its political life more nearly
to its heart's desire. It says in its brief to us:
"There is no direct relation between the distribution
of natural resources and the distribution of population in the United States. It happens that some of
the areas richest in natural resources in the United
States are sparsely populated. If the raw materials
making up those natural resources are to be converted
into finished products in that vicinity, allowing the
area some economic benefit from their conversion, it
will be necessary to transport considerable volumes
of finished goods for long distances. Necessarily.
minerals are obtained where the deposits occur, and
agricultural products must be produced in areas of
suitable soil and climate. It is the task of the transportation system to carry commodities from points
of production to consuming centers throughout the
United States and to the ports for export. The more
freely and cheaply the products are carried, the more
competition there will be, the more production there
will be, and the better will our transportation system
serve our national economy.
The maintenance of a sound national economy requires the proper use of natural resources to insure
reasonable economic opportunity of a stable nature
for the people in each of the regions of the country.
As indicated, population distribution is not in accord
with the distribution of natural resources, and it
would require many years for people to move to where
these resources are, assuming it possible to induce
such millions to migrate, or that it would be wise
policy to do so even if possible. There are also areas
of one-crop agriculture in which the people face read-

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

331 U. S.

justments to restore and protect the land and to obtain
additional sources of livelihood.
In view of all this, one of the basic principles in
making freight rates should be the elimination of rate
barriers against regional development, not to change
our economy, but to remove discriminatory conditions which unfairly and unlawfully prevent the
possibility of change."
The Court's entire discussion of the discrimination feature of this case is an acceptance of the Government's
position without which the last support for this order
would fail.
No authority can be found in any Act of Congress for
the imposition of this surcharge on the Northeast solely
to penalize it for being able to transport goods cheaper due
to its density of population and volume of traffic. The
policy of Congress remains as it long has stood: "adequate
and efficient railway transportation service at the lowest
cost consistent with the furnishing of such service ....
Interstate Commerce Act, § 15a (2), 48 Stat. 220, 54 Stat.
912, 49 U. S. C. § 15a (2). Congress has never intimated,
much less declared, a purpose to deprive the territory in
which fifty percent of the nation's consumers reside of
the benefit of this policy. The Ramspeck resolution did
no more than to direct the Commission's attention to
earnest complaints that the South and West were being
mistreated in the matter of rail rates, and very properly
to direct that they determine such complaints on their
merits. True, in 1940 the provision prohibiting undue
prejudice and preference was amended by the addition
of "region, district, territory," to the list of persons or
things not to be unduly prejudiced or preferred. Transportation Act, 1940, § 5 (a), 54 Stat. 902, 49 U. S. C.
§ 3 (1). But the Act already prohibited undue prejudice
or preference to any "locality" and it is conceded that

NEW YORK v. UNITED STATES.
284

JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

the 1940 Act made no change in the substantive law of
discrimination. Senator Wheeler, Chairman of th e Interstate Commerce Committee of the Senate, showed
clearly that while it would "make toward the equalization
of rates," 84 Cong. Rec. 6072, it was not intended to accomplish what is here attempted. The following colloquy
occurred:
"MR. FRAZIER. Is it the expectation of the committee that by the amendment in section 52 [now
section 5 (b) of the Act] the rates in the various
classification territories will be equalized or made the
same in different territories?
"MR. WHEELER. I do not think that is possible.
"MR. FRAZIER. I do not see how it is possible. I
was wondering what the intention was.
"MR. WHEELER. It is not possible for a number of
reasons. For example, it costs more to carry freight
over the mountains in two trains than to carry it on
the plains in one train. Likewise, we must recognize
the fact that railroad transportation service and rates
depend somewhat on the intensity of the traffic. In
long stretches of territory with no traffic, shippers
must pay more for railroad service than do shippers
in a densely settled part of the country where traffic is
plentiful and where there is much competition from
busses, trucks, and things of that kind. However, it
seems to me from my study of the question that apparent inequalities ought to be corrected. ...
"MR. FRAZIER. In North Dakota we have a large
volume of wheat to transport in the fall of the year,
and because we have that large volume, and because
our territory is practically level, we have a rather
beneficial rate on wheat as compared with some other
territories. Our railroad commission and traffic experts are afraid that the provision to which reference

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

331 U. S.

has been made will take that special rate away
from us.
"MR. WHEELER. I believe this provision will help
the people of the Senator's State, rather than harm
them in many respects.
"MR. FRAZIER. We have a much lower rate than
prevails in many other sections of the country. If
rates are to be equalized, it will mean raising our
rates.
"MR.

WHEELER.

The bill does not mean that rates

are to be equalized. . . . The people of the Senator's
State might just as well disabuse their minds of the
fear that as a result of the bill they will lose any benefit which they now have. . . ." (84 Cong. Rec.
5890.)
The Court never before has confided to any regulatory
body the reshaping of our national economy. In Texas
& Pacific R. Co. v. United States, 289 U. S. 627, the following statement of the law was made: "A tariff published
for the purpose of destroying a market or building up one,
of diverting traffic from a particular place to the injury of
that place, or in aid of some other, is unlawful; and obviously, what the carrier may not lawfully do, the Commission may not compel." 289 U. S. at 637. See also

Southern Pacific Co. v. I. C. C., 219 U. S. 433; I. C. C. v.
Difienbaugh, 222 U. S. 42, 46; United States v. Illinois
Central R. Co., 263 U. S. 515, 524.
The Interstate Commerce Commission also accepted
this as the law. In Stoves, Ranges, Boilers, etc., 182
I. C. C. 59, the majority said, "It is not within our power
to equalize natural disadvantages of locations," 182 I. C. C.
at 68, and Commissioner Eastman was even more explicit,
saying, 182 I. C. C. at 74:
"However, it is undeniable, I think, that in the
past both southern manufacturers and southern car-

NEW YORK v. UNITED STATES.
284

JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

riers have shown a tendency to demand that the rates
to the North be equalized in level with those within
the North, on the ground that such equalization is
commercially essential to the southern industries. It
is a sufficient answer to say that it is not our province
to equalize commercial conditions. However, the
evidence in this case has served a useful purpose in
making it quite clear that the southern manufacturers
have certain advantages over their northern rivals,
so far as operating and overhead costs are concerned,
which would have to be taken into consideration if
it were our duty to equalize commercial conditions
through an adjustment of freight rates."
The Court shrouds this simple legal issue as to whether
there is power to levy this surtax on the Northeast, in
elaborate discussions of the evils of existing freight classifications and affirmations of the Commission's power to
correct them. Neither of these propositions have ever
been in doubt. But what importance can the Commission's power over classifications have in testing validity
of this order? To correct classification was the asserted
object of this proceeding, but that power has not been
exercised at all. Not one classification is changed. Instead, a flat boost is made against traffic in the Northeast
and a flat reduction for traffic in the South and West is
ordered, leaving every inequality, discrimination, injustice
or illegality in classifications just where the Commission
found them. If there is proof of specific discrimination,
injustice and illegalities in this case, why are they not
now ordered corrected? If there is not sufficient proof
of any specific discrimination, how can we hold that there
is a general discrimination so extensive as to warrant this
levy on the Northeast to correct them?
Perhaps the most incomprehensible of the Court's
grounds for sustaining this order is that we do not have
7.55552 0-48-27

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

331 U. S.

here a "revenue problem." It is admitted that the Northeastern rates before increase are not proved nor found by
the Commission to be noncompensatory to the railroads,
or otherwise to threaten harmful effects upon the revenues
and transportation efficiency of the carriers who get the
increase. It also is admitted that the absence of such
proof and findings might be fatal to this increased rate,
for "If this were a case of determining whether existing
rates passed below the lowest or above the highest reaches
of reasonableness, the point might be well taken." Can
the label affixed to a proceeding make legal what under
another label would be invalid? Because the proceeding
professes to correct classifications, a purpose now long
and indefinitely deferred, may it be used incidentally to
raise the rates of the whole Northeastern territory without any showing of need therefor? Whether we call the
case a "revenue case" or something else, and whether we
decline to denominate the problem a "revenue problem"
and style it something else, the order under review is a
revenue order and nothing else. It adds 10% to the
revenues of the Northeastern roads from traffic moving
under the rates in question; it knocks 10% off from
the Southern and Western traffic under them. It exacts
for the railroads added revenues; it lays on shippers the
burden of providing those added revenues. This order
admittedly might be invalid if the increased revenue were
given to the railroads because they had made a claim to
need it, and had only the present evidence and findings
to support an allowance of their claim. So the conclusion
is that the order is valid only because the railroads have
no revenue problem and have not made a case entitling
them to increased revenue. That is all I can get from
the answer that it is a valid order only because "we do
not have here such a revenue problem."

NEW YORK v. UNITED STATES.
284

JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

I long have heard the complaint that freight rates discriminated against the South. I have been inclined to
suspect it to be true and have hoped to see an impartial
and exhaustive study and decision on the subject. But
this case does not meet that description. The student
of economics will be puzzled at the Court's citation of
the fact that the average employed person in the South
earns only half as much as those in the Northeast as being
in some way attributable to these freight rates. And the
student of the judicial process will find instruction in the
contrast between today's decision and that of Interstate
Commerce Commission v. Mechling, 330 U. S. 567, in its
regard for inherent advantages, in its attitude to "unsifted" averages as a basis for raising rates and in its
deference to the administrative expertise of the Interstate
Commerce Commission.
I am not unaware of the difficult position in which the
Interstate Commerce Commission finds itself in cases of
this character. Commissioner Eastman gave voice to it
in dissent in State of Alabama v. New York Central R. Co.,
235 I. C. C. 255, 333, as follows:
"The Commission is called upon to decide this case,
on the record, after it has in effect been decided, in
advance and without regard to the record, by many
men in public life, of high and low degree, who have
freely proclaimed their views on what they conceive
to be the basic issues. Their thesis has been that
the section of our country generally known as the
South is our 'Economic Problem No. 1', because,
among other things, it is low in industrial development, and that a major reason for this condition has
been and is an unfair adjustment of freight rates
which has favored the producers of the North and
burdened those of the South. It has become a political issue. While, however, the South gave birth to

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

331 U. S.

the issue, public representatives of the West now cry
out against like supposed oppression, and public representatives of the North or East, as it is variously
called, have risen in defense of their section.
"Under such conditions, it is not easy to decide the
case without being influenced by emotional reactions,
one way or the other, which should play no part in
the decision."
But by administrative succession and judicial fiat the
regulatory power of the Federal Government over commerce is now used to force a surtax on transportation of
one section of the country admittedly not needed to compensate the railroad for the carriage but to take away from
its inhabitants one of the advantages inherent in its
density of population, regardless of the disadvantages
which density of population also causes.
The observation of Commissioner Mahaffie in this case
seems to me appropriate and accurate:
In a country so vast as this with its widely
varied resources and differing transportation needs it
seems to me a mistake to try to compel general equality in rates except to the extent equality is justified
by transportation conditions. I think the effort to
do so must necessarily fail. But I am afraid the
process of finding out whether it can be done will be
painful and costly. The prejudice findings on which
the new adjustment is largely predicated are calculated, if carried to a logical conclusion, to lead to a
rigid rate structure based on mileage. While this
may seem on its face to be equitable its accomplishment would entail radical industrial and agricultural
readjustments. I doubt if the country should be required to incur the expense of making them." (262
I. C. C. at 708.)
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER joins in

this opinion.

