MYERS v. READING CO.
469

Syllabus.

We hold that the Government was entitled to the relief
sought. The judgment is accordingly reversed with direction that writs issue to effect vacation of the order for new
trial.
Judgment reversed.
MYERS v. READING COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 367.

Argued February 6, 1947.-Decided June 2,1947.

1. In this action under the Federal Employers' Liability Act, by an
employee against a carrier to recover damages for personal injuries
alleged to have been caused by the defendant's use, in violation
of the Safety Appliance Acts, of a freight car not equipped with
efficient hand brakes, the evidence at the trial, with the inferences
that the jury justifiably could draw from it, was sufficient to
support the verdict for the plaintiff; and it was error to enter
judgment for the defendant notwithstanding the verdict. Pp. 478486.
2. Although a carrier is not subject under the Federal Employers'
Liability Act to an absolute liability to its employees for injuries,
it is subject to liability for injuries resulting from a violation of
its absolute duty to comply with the Safety Appliance Acts. P. 485.
155 F. 2d 523, reversed.

Notwithstanding a verdict for the plaintiff in a suit
under the Federal Employers' Liability Act and the Safety
Appliance Acts, the District Court entered judgment for
the defendant. 63 F. Supp. 817. The Circuit Court of
Appeals affirmed. 155 F. 2d 523. This Court granted
certiorari. 329 U. S. 699. Reversed, p. 486.
By special leave of Court, B. Nathaniel Richter argued
the cause for petitioner, pro hac vice. With him on the
brief was John H. Hoffman.
Henry R. Heebner argued the cause for respondent.
With him on the brief was Wm. Clarke Mason.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE BURTON delivered the opinion of the Court.

This action for damages alleged to have been caused to
the petitioner by the respondent's use, in violation of the
Safety Appliance Acts,1 of a railroad freight car not
equipped with efficient hand brakes, presents the question
whether the evidence at the trial, with the inferences that
the jury justifiably could draw from it, was sufficient to
support the verdict for the petitioner. We hold that it
was.

The action was brought in the District Court of the
United States for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania
by the petitioner, John Myers, against his employer, the
Reading Company. He claimed that he received personal
injuries caused by the respondent's use in interstate commerce, in its railroad yards at Port Richmond, Philadelphia, of a freight car equipped with a defective hand
brake in violation of the Safety Appliance Acts requiring
'
such cars to be equipped with "efficient hand brakes. 2
At the close of the evidence, respondent moved for a directed verdict. The motion was not granted, and the
jury returned a verdict for $5,000 in favor of the petitioner. The respondent then moved to have the verdict
set aside and to have judgment entered in its favor.3 On

1"SEC. 2.. . ., it shall be unlawful for any common carrier subject
to the provisions of this Act [of April 14, 1910] to haul, or permit
to be hauled or used on its line any car subject to the provisions of
this Act not equipped with appliances provided for in this Act, to
wit: All cars must be equipped with secure sill steps and efficient
hand brakes; all cars requiring secure ladders and secure running
boards shall be equipped with such ladders and running boards, and
all cars having ladders shall also be equipped with secure hand holds
or grab irons on their roofs at the tops of such ladders:

...

"

(Italics supplied.) 36 Stat. 298, 45 U. S. C. ยง 11.
2 See note 1, supra.
3"RULE

50.

MOTION FOR A DIRECTED VERDICT.

"(b) RESERVATION OF DECISION ON MOTION. . . . Within 10 days
after the reception of a verdict, a party who has moved for a directed

MYERS v. READING CO.
477

Opinion of the Court.

December 28, 1945, this motion was granted and judgment was so entered. 63 F. Supp. 817. On May 29,
1946, the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit
affirmed the judgment, per curiam. 155 F. 2d 523. We
granted certiorari in order to review this procedure, in a
case based upon a violation of the Safety Appliance Acts,
in the light of our decision rendered on March 25, 1946,
in Lavender v. Kurn, 327 U. S.645, subsequent to the trial
of this case.
The petitioner testified to the following:
On June 11, 1944, he was working for the respondent as
a freight conductor in charge of a crew consisting of an
engineer, a fireman and two brakemen. Ie had been employed by the respondent for six or seven years, rising from
the rank of crossing watchman to that of conductor and,
for five or six months immediately preceding June 11, he
had worked practically every day in the job in which he
was engaged when injured. At about nine o'clock that
evening his crew moved a string of seven coal cars on to a
yard track where the crew coupled those cars to three
others. One of the brakemen, new on the job that day,
made the coupling and the petitioner directed him "to tie
the handbrakes on"-that is, to tighten them so as to
insure against further movements of the cars on the
slightly graded track. The brakeman did this, but before
the petitioner left the cars he checked them over and saw
that the brakes were not all on, because one brake chain,
instead of being wrapped around the shaft, was hanging
loose. He climbed up on the brake platform, eight feet
above the ground, on the car where the hand brake was
verdict may move to have the verdict and any judgment entered
thereon set aside and to have judgment entered in accordance with
his motion for a directed verdict; .... If a verdict was returned
the court may allow the judgment to stand or may reopen the judgment and either order a new trial or direct the entry of judgment
as if the requested verdict had been directed ... " Federal Rules
of Civil Procedure.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

not set, and tried to set it by turning the brake wheel.
While doing this, he carried his signaling lantern on his
left arm with his hand through the handle. As to the
condition and operation of the brake he testified:
"A. I was tightening the brake-it was kind of stiff
and sticking-it was pretty hard to signal with the
one hand and to get the brake on.
"Q. With the ordinary brake wheel, do you have
the difficulty that you had with this wheel?
"A. Not ordinarily.
"Q. What was the difference between this wheel
and the ordinary wheel?
"A. It was kind of stiff, and like a spring-like a
shoe kicking back.
"Q. And you started to try to set it?
"A. That is right.
"A. As I was tightening the brake-just that
quick-I felt something like the slack being run out,
getting ready to uncouple.
"Q. What did you feel on your car?
"A. A quick jar, and I took this hand to signal
'stop.' (Indicating.)
"Q. What did you signal?
"A. I signaled 'stop' the best I could and hold on,
but I went down; I lost my hold and down I went.
"Q. What happened to the wheel on the handbrake while you were holding the wheel?
"A. That kicked back.
"Q. What do you mean by that?
"A. I was putting it on this way (indicating), and
it kicked right back off.

"Q. Could you hold it?
"A. No, I couldn't.
"Q. Was it pulled all the way on?

MYERS v. READING CO.
477

Opinion of the Court.

"A. Oh, no.
"Q. What happened to you?
"A. Down I went." 4
The jury found, in a special verdict, that the brake was
not an efficient brake; that its inefficiency contributed to
or caused injuries to the petitioner; that the train did not
move after the seven shifted cars were coupled to the three
standing cars; and that the petitioner was not thrown
from a moving train.' The jury thus reached factual conclusions supporting its general verdict for the petitioner,
and reducing the legal basis for recovery to the respondent's use of a car not equipped with efficient hand brakes.
4 Further

testimony stated that his injuries were due to this fall.
Other testimony supported the petitioner's claim, under the Federal
Employers' Liability Act, 35 Stat. 65, 53 Stat. 1404, 45 U. S. C. ยง 51,
that the respondent was negligent in moving the train while the petitioner was trying to tighten the brake and without any direction from
him. This charge, however, was disposed of by the special verdict
of the jury, stating that the train did not move, thus strengthening
the probative force of the testimony that the petitioner's fall was
caused by the stiffness and kickback of the brake.
The special verdict was as follows:
"1. Was the brake in question an efficient brake?
Answer 'yes' or 'no.' [Answer] No.
"2. If you find that the brake in question was not an efficient brake,
did that fact contribute to or cause any injuries to the plaintiff?
Answer 'yes' or 'no.' [Answer] Yes.
"3. Did the train move after the seven shifted cars were coupled
to the three standing cars?
Answer 'yes' or 'no.' [Answer] No.
"4. If you find that the train moved after the cars were coupled,
did that fact contribute to or cause any injuries sustained by the
plaintiff ?
Answer 'yes' or 'no.' [Answer] No.
"5. Was the plaintiff thrown from a moving train?
Answer 'yes' or 'no.' [Answer] No.
"6. Did the plaintiff become ill while walking on the ground, without
having been thrown from the train?
Answer 'yes' or 'no.' [Answer] No."

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

The only question before us is whether there was sufficient probative evidence, with the inferences that the
jury could draw from it, to support the verdict for the
petitioner.
There was an absolute and unqualified prohibition
against the respondent's using or permitting to be used,
on its line, any car not equipped with "efficient hand
brakes." 6 In speaking of a like prohibition, imposed by
the same Section of the Safety Appliance Acts, against
the use of any car not equipped with "secure hand holds
or grab irons," Mr. Chief Justice Hughes said:
"This final question must be determined in the
light of the nature of the obligation resting upon the
carrier in relation to the use of a defective car. The
statutory liability is not based upon the carrier's negligence. The duty imposed is an absolute one and
the carrier is not excused by any showing of care
however assiduous." Brady v. Terminal R. Assn.,
303 U. S. 10, 15, and cases there cited.
See also, Atlantic City R. Co. v. Parker, 242 U. S. 56, 59
(automatic couplers required by 27 Stat. 531, 45 U. S. C.
ยง 2); Great Northern R. Co. v. Otos, 239 U. S. 349, 351
(couplers); Chicago, B. & Q. R. Co. v. United States, 220
U. S. 559, 574-575; St. Louis & Iron Mountain R. Co. v.
Taylor, 210 U. S. 281, 294-295 (couplers and drawbars);
Spotts v. Baltimore & 0. R. Co., 102 F. 2d.160, 162 (hand
brakes).
This simplifies the issue beyond that presented in the
ordinary case under the Federal Employers' Liability Act
where the plaintiff must establish the negligence of his
employer. Here it is not necessary to find negligence.
A railroad subject to the Safety Appliance Acts may be
found liable if the jury reasonably can infer from the evidence merely that the hand brake which caused the
6 See note 1, supra.

MYERS v. READING CO.
477

Opinion of the Court.

injuries was on a car which the railroad was then using
on its line, in interstate commerce, and that the brake was
not an "efficient" hand brake. Furthermore"There are two recognized methods of showing the
inefficiency of hand brake equipment. Evidence may
be adduced to establish some particular defect, or the
same inefficiency may be established by showing a
failure to function, when operated with due care, in
the normal, natural, and usual manner." Didingerv.
PennsylvaniaR. Co., 39 F. 2d 798, 799.
"Proof of an actual break or visible defect in a coupling appliance is not a prerequisite to a finding that
the statute has been violated. Where a jury finds
that there is a violation, it will be sustained, if there
is proof that the mechanism failed to work efficiently
and properly even though it worked efficiently both
before and after the occasion in question. The test
in fact is the performance of the appliance. Philadelphia & R. R. Co. v. Auchenbach, 3 Cir., 16 F. 2d
550. Efficient means adequate in performance; producing properly a desired effect. Inefficient means
not producing or not capable of producing the desired
effect; incapable; incompetent; inadequate. ...
the testimony of plaintiff that the brake was
used in the normal and usual manner and failed to
work efficiently but did so inefficiently, throwing him
to the ground, is such substantial evidence of inefficiency as to make an issue for the jury. Detroit, T.
& I. R. Co. v. Hahn, 6 Cir., 47 F. 2d 59. In other
words, we cannot say as a matter of law that any and
all inferences which the jury might reasonably draw
from the evidence would support only a verdict for
defendant and not one for plaintiff." Spotts v. Baltimore & 0. R. Co., supra,at p. 162.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

See also, Wild v. Pitcairn,347 Mo. 915, 149 S. W. 2d 800;
and Newkirk v. Los Angeles Junction R. Co., 21 Cal. 2d
308,131 P. 2d 535.
The inefficiency of the brake in this case may have consisted of its defective condition or its defective functional
operation resulting, in either case, in its knocking from the
brake platform an experienced railroad man attempting
to tighten or set the brake in the customary manner described in his testimony. That testimony was not descriptive of precise mechanical defects in the structure of
the brake. It was, however, simple and direct testimony
from which a jury reasonably might infer the brake's defectiveness and its inefficiency in the sense necessary to
establish a violation of the Safety Appliance Acts. After
a brakeman had attempted to set all of the brakes, the
chain on this brake still hung loose, indicating that it was
not set. When the brake was partially tightened by an
experienced freight conductor familiar with that kind of
an operation, he found that it differed from the ordinary
brake. He found that "it was kind of stiff, and like a
spring-like a shoe kicking back." While he was holding
the wheel, before it was "pulled all the way on," it "kicked
back," he couldn't hold it, and "down" he went. This
resulted in serious injuries to his hand and back. While
different conclusions might be possible, the jury, which
heard the testimony and saw the petitioner's illustrations
of his handling of the brake, reasonably could infer from
that evidence that the condition of this brake and its
action were not those of an efficient hand brake.
The questions at issue were questions of fact. The
jury was entitled to draw inferences from the evidence.
From the evidence presented, the jury reasonably could
find, as it did in its special verdict, (1) that the brake was
not an efficient brake, and (2) that the fact that the brake
was not an efficient brake contributed to or caused injury
to the petitioner. In the face of this, the trial court erred

MYERS v. READING CO.
Opinion of the Court.

477

in entering a judgment for the respondent in accordance
with the motion for a directed verdict.
The respondent is not subject, as has been suggested,
to an absolute liability to its employees comparable to that
established by a workmen's compensation law.' As an
interstate common carrier, however, it is subject to liability for injuries to its employees resulting from its violation
of its absolute duty to comply with the Safety Appliance
Acts. The evidence here was sufficient to support the
verdict for the petitioner, whether tested by the formula
used by this Court in Improvement Co. v. Munson, 14
Wall. 442; Slocum v. New York Life Ins. Co., 228 U. S.
364; Tennant v. Peoria & P. U. R. Co., 321 U. S. 29; or
Lavender v. Kurn, supra. The requirement is for probative facts capable of supporting, with reason, the conclusion expressed in the verdict.
"Petitioner was required to present probative facts
from which the negligence and the causal relation
could reasonably be inferred. 'The essential requirement is that mere speculation be not allowed to do
duty for probative facts, after making due allowance
for all reasonably possible inferences favoring the
party whose case is attacked.' Galloway v. United
States, 319 U. S.372, 395; . . . ...Tennant v. Peoria
& P. U. R. Co., supra,at pp. 32-33.
See also, Blair v. Baltimore & 0. R. Co., 323 U. S. 600;
Brady v. Southern R. Co., 320 U. S.476; PennsylvaniaR.
Co. v. Chamberlain,288 U. S.333, 343; Western & A. R.
Co. v. Hughes, 278 U. S.496; and Baltimore & 0. R. Co. v.
Groeger, 266 U. S.521, 524.
"Only when there is a complete absence of probative
facts to support the conclusion reached does a reversible error appear. But where, as here, there is
an evidentiary basis for the jury's verdict, the jury
7See

Griswold v. Gardner, 155 F. 2d 333, 334, 337.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Syllabus.

331 U. S.

is free to discard or disbelieve whatever facts are
inconsistent with its conclusion. And the appellate
court's function is exhausted when that evidentiary
basis becomes apparent, it being immaterial that the
court might draw a contrary inference or feel that
another conclusion is more reasonable." Lavender v.
Kurn, supra, at p. 653.
We believe that the evidence given at the trial, with the
inferences that the jury justifiably could draw from it, was
sufficient to support the verdict originally rendered for
the petitioner. Accordingly, the judgment of the Circuit
Court of Appeals sustaining the judgment entered for the
respondent by the District Court is hereby
Reversed.

GREENOUGH

ET AL.,

TRUSTEES, v. TAX ASSES-

SORS OF NEWPORT

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE SUPERIOR COURT OF NEWPORT COUNTY,
RHODE ISLAND.

No. 461.

Argued March 7, 1947.-Decided June 9,1947.

1. A Rhode Island municipality assessed a tax against a resident of
Rhode Island for half the value of intangibles held jointly by him
and a resident of New York as trustees under the will of a resident
of New York. The evidences of the intangible property were at
all times in New York and the life beneficiary of the trust resided
there, the future beneficiaries being undetermined. The Rhode
Island resident did not actually exercise his powers as trustee in
Rhode Island. Held: The tax did not violate the due process
clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Pp. 491-498.
2. So long as a state chooses to tax the value of intangibles as a part
of a taxpayer's wealth, the location of evidences of ownership is
immaterial. P. 492.
3. Since intangibles have no real situs, the domicile of the owner is
the nearest approximation, although other taxing jurisdictions may
also have power to tax the same intangibles. P. 493.

