RICE v. CHICAGO BOARD OF TRADE.
218

247

Syllabus.

from a rejected construction. But surely one does not
draw on idle fears in suggesting that as a result of today's
decision the gates of escape from deeply rooted State
requirements will be open, although Congress itself
has not authorized federal authority to take over the regulation of such activities and though their State enforcement does not at all conflict with, but rather promotes, the
limited oversight of warehouses thus far assumed by the
Federal Government. The Court displaces settled and
fruitful State authority though it cannot replace it with
federal authority.
RICE ET AL. V. BOARD OF TRADE OF THE CITY
OF CHICAGO.
NO. 471.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS
FOR THE SEVENTH CIRCUIT.*

Argued February 14, 1947.-Decided May 5, 1947.
1. By the Commodity Exchange Act, the United States has not so
occupied and preempted the field of regulation of boards of trade
designated "contract markets" as to deprive the states of authority
to regulate trading in futures, except to the extent that the state
regulations may conflict with the federal regulations. Pp. 250-255.
2. Until a state has adopted applicable rules on the subject, it cannot
be known whether the state regulations will conflict with the federal
regulations and any claim of supersedure is premature. Pp. 255-256.
156 F. 2d 33, reversed.

A district court dismissed complaints seeking to enjoin
proceedings before the Illinois Commerce Commission in
which the Chicago Board of Trade had been joined as a
defendant. The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed. 156
F. 2d 33. This Court granted certiorari. 329 U. S. 701.
Reversed, p. 256.
*Together with No. 473, Illinois Commerce Commission et al. v.
Board of Trade of the City of Chicago, also on certiorari to the same
Court.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

Lee A. Freeman argued the cause and filed a brief for
petitioners in No. 471.
William C. Wines, Assistant Attorney General of Illinois, argued the cause for petitioners in No. 473. With
him on the brief was George F. Barrett, Attorney
General.
Howard Ellis argued the cause for respondent.
him on the brief was Weymouth Kirkland.

With

Acting Solicitor General Washington, Assistant Attorney General Berge, Robert C. Barnard, W. Carroll
Hunter and Lewis A. Sigler filed a brief for the United
States, as amicus curiae, urging affirmance.

Opinion of the Court by MR.
nounced by MR. JUSTICE BLACK.

JUSTICE DOUGLAS,

an-

These are companion cases to Rice v. Santa Fe
Elevator Corp. and Illinois Commerce Commission v.
Santa Fe Elevator Corp., ante, p. 218, decided this
day. Respondent in these cases, the Chicago Board of
Trade, was joined as a defendant in the proceeding
brought by Rice before the Illinois Commerce Commission. As we have noted in our opinion in the companion
cases, the Rice complaint charged the defendant warehousemen with maintaining excessive, unreasonable and
discriminatory rates and practices, with operating inadequate and unsafe facilities and services, and with failure
to comply with other requirements of Illinois law. The
Board of Trade, organized under a special Act of the
Illinois legislature, operates a commercial grain exchange
and has adopted rules and regulations governing transactions on the exchange. The complaint of Rice charges
(1) that the rules and regulations of the Board are unreasonable and unsatisfactory in that, among other things,

RICE v. CHICAGO BOARD OF TRADE.
247

249

Opinion of the Court.

they favor warehousemen and sellers of grain and discriminate against grain buyers; and (2) that the Board
has from time to time adopted rules and regulations, relating to the warehousing of grain in public warehouses
and the custody of grain in private warehouses without
securing the prior approval of the Illinois Commission.
Under Illinois law, it is alleged, such rules may not become operative without approval by the Commission;
and the Commission in turn has authority to adopt and
promulgate rules of its own. Ill. Rev. Stat. 1945, ch.
114, § 194b. 1 Relief asked on this phase of the proceeding was a declaration that the Board's rules, which did
not have the prior approval of the Commission, were void;
and an order that the Board adopt and submit rules which
were fair, equitable, adequate and specific.
The Board moved to dismiss the proceeding before the
Commission on the ground that the Commodity Exchange
Act, 49 Stat. 1491, as amended, 7 U. S. C. § 1 et seq., and
the regulations thereunder superseded the provisions of
Illinois law which Rice sought to invoke. That motion
was denied. Thereupon, these suits were instituted in
the District Court to enjoin the proceedings before the
Illinois Commerce Commission. The District Court dismissed the complaints. The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed. 156 F. 2d 33. The cases are here on certiorari.
The Chicago Board of Trade is "the greatest grain
market in the world." Board of Trade v. Olsen, 262 U. S.
1That section provides: "No rule or regulation of any board of
trade or grain exchange which relates to the warehousing of grain
in any public grain warehouse, or which relates to the custody of
grain in any private warehouse, or the use or negotiation of custodian's
receipts for such grain, shall be or become operative until such rule
or regulation is approved by the Illinois Commerce Commission, and
the Illinois Commerce Commission may adopt and promulgate reasonable rules and regulations consistent with the provisions of this Act
for the purpose of making this Act effective."

250

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

1, 33. Its activities have been regulated by Congress
by the Future Trading Act, 42 Stat. 187, by the Grain
Futures Act, 42 Stat. 998, and by the Commodity Exchange Act. See H. R. Rep. No. 421, 74th Cong., 1st Sess.
The Board of Trade claims a status under the Commodity
Exchange Act which, it is contended, precludes the Illinois
Commission from entertaining the Rice complaint.
The Commodity Exchange Act provides comprehensive
regulation of trading in futures on commodity exchanges
which are designated as "contract markets" by the Secretary of Agriculture. The Secretary is authorized to designate any board of trade as a contract market on its
compliance with prescribed terms and conditions. § 5.
The Chicago Board of Trade has been so designated. The
Act contemplates that each contract market will adopt
rules governing transactions in futures contracts. Approval of a board of trade as a contract market may be
made only when "the governing board thereof provides
for the prevention of manipulation of prices and the cornering of any commodity by the dealers or operators upon
such board." § 5 (d). The Act contains provisions
which prohibit certain types of trading practices (see for
example §§ 4b, 4c, 4h) and other provisions (as for
example those dealing with excessive speculation, see § 4a)
which limit or control buying and selling on contract markets. But we are not particularly concerned with those
phases of the federal regulatory scheme. So far as the
problem of supersedure is concerned, this Act is unlike the
one considered in the companion cases, as we shall see.
Moreover, the subject matter of the complaint filed by
Rice with the Illinois Commission against the Board of
Trade relates only to the warehousing of grain. On that
matter the Act has only two specific provisions.
It provides in the first place that receipts issued under
the United States Warehouse Act, 39 Stat. 486, as
amended, 7 U. S. C. § 241 et seq., shall be accepted with-

RICE v. CHICAGO BOARD OF TRADE.
247

251

Opinion of the Court.

out discrimination in satisfaction of futures contracts
made on or subject to the rules of the contract market,
even though the warehouseman is not also licensed under
state law or enjoys different privileges than those accorded
by state law, provided inter alia, that "the warehouse in
which the commodity is stored meets such reasonable requirements as may be imposed by such contract market
on other warehouses as to location, accessibility, and suitability for warehousing and delivery purposes." § 5a (7).
Moreover, each contract market has some control over
warehouses in which or out of which any commodity is
deliverable on any contract for future delivery made on
or subject to the rules of the contract market. Thus the
contract market must require the warehouse operators "to
make such reports, keep such records, and permit such
warehouse visitation" as the Secretary may prescribe.
§ 5a (3). All rules and regulations of a contract market,
and all changes and proposed changes, must be filed with
the Secretary. § 5a (1).
Enough of the Act has been summarized to show that
it imposes on contract markets, under the supervision of
the Secretary, (1) duties of preventing or controlling certain trading practices and of supervising transactions in
futures contracts, and (2) some responsibility for standardizing deliverable warehouse receipts and assuring their
integrity. The failure or refusal of a board of trade to
comply with the provisions of the Act or any of the rules
and regulations of the Secretary is cause for suspension or
revocation of the authority of the board to act as a contract market. § 5b. And see § 6 (a). Criminal penalties are provided for certain violations of the Act, or of
rules or regulations of the Secretary, by a board of trade or
any of its directors, officers, agents or employees. §§ 6b, 9.
The Secretary has the power to "make such investigations
as he may deem necessary to ascertain the facts regarding the operations of boards of trade ....
"
§ 8.
75552 0-48-20

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

And the Secretary is given broad rule-making powers.

8a (5).
The Secretary has promulgated numerous rules and
regulations covering a variety of subjects pertaining to
contract markets and their activities.! The following are
relevant here, since they relate to the warehousing of
grain: (1) a requirement that each contract market file
information concerning warehouses in which or out of
which commodities are deliverable in satisfaction of futures contracts made on the contract market, § 1.43; and
(2) a provision that each contract market shall require
operators of warehouses whose receipts are deliverable in
satisfaction of futures contracts made on or subject to the
rules of the contract market (a) to keep specified records,
(b) to furnish information concerning stocks of commodities in warehouses, (c) to permit visitation of the premises
and inspection of the books and records by duly authorized
representatives of the Federal Government. § 1.44.
In pursuance of the latter regulation of the Secretary,
the Board of Trade enacted the rules and regulations
which Rice challenged in the proceedings before the Illinois Commission. One rule provides that deliveries shall
be made by delivery of warehouse receipts-issued by warehouses which have been declared "regular" by the Board.
Rule 281. The Board's regulations relating to warehousing of grain set forth the procedure and standards by
which warehouses may be made "regular." 2
2

The rules and regulations are to be found in 17 C. F. R., Part 1.

3These regulations provide, inter alia, that the warehouses must
be "conveniently approachable by vessels of ordinary draft," have
"customary shipping facilities," and charge rates not exceeding a

specified maximum (Reg. 1620); must file a bond satisfactory to the
Board (Reg. 1621); must have proprietors or managers in "unquestioned good financial standing and credit" (Reg. 1624); must be "connected by railroad tracks with one or more of the eastern railway
lines" (Reg. 1625); and must be "provided with modern improve-

RICE v. CHICAGO BOARD OF TRADE.
247

253

Opinion of the Court.

It is apparent that the federal scheme of regulation of
futures trading extends to the whole futures contractto its satisfaction, as well as to its execution. It is also
apparent that the Act provides some control over (1)
warehouse receipts which are acceptable in satisfaction
of sales and purchases on the contract market, and (2) the
qualifications of the warehouses whose receipts will be
accepted for such deliveries. But there is not contained
in the Commodity Exchange Act, as there is in the United
States Warehouse Act, see Rice v. Santa Fe Elevator
Corp., supra, a declaration by Congress that the system
which it has adopted for the regulation of trading on contract markets is exclusive of state regulation. Here Congress has gone no further than to write into the Act
prohibitions and controls and to give the force of law both
to them and to rules and regulations of the Secretary made
within the scope of his statutory authority. With exceptions which we will note, state regulations which conflict with the requirements of the Act or with the rules and
regulations of the Secretary would be superseded under
the familiar rule.
Congress treated the rules and regulations of the Board
of Trade differently from those of the Secretary. It did
not undertake to put behind them civil or criminal sanctions.' It merely furnished standards (or authorized the
ments and appliances for the convenient and expeditious receiving,
handling, and shipping of grain in bulk." (Reg. 1626.)
Any "regular" warehouse may be declared "irregular" by the Board
at any time for violation of the laws of Illinois or the rules and regulations of the Board (Reg. 1623), or because of any important change
in the conditions of any warehouse or disregard or evasion of the
requirements governing regular warehouses (Reg. 1629).
4We therefore have no attempt here to endow private groups with
law-making functions. Cf. Schechter Corp. v. United States, 295
U. S. 495; United States v. Socony-Vacuum Oil Co., 310 U. S. 150,
225-227; Parker v. Brown, 317 U. S. 341, 350-352.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

Secretary to do so) to which the rules and regulations of
the Board were to conform. And while there is provision
in some instances for disapproval of the Board's rules by
the Secretary of Agriculture (see § 4c), there is no provision for his approval or disapproval of the rules challenged
in the Illinois proceeding. Insofar as those rules are concerned, all that the Act and the regulations of the Secretary
do is to define the area in which the Board may provide
standards for warehouses whose receipts are acceptable
in satisfaction of futures contracts. By the terms of § 5a
(7) the requirements fixed by the Board must be "reasonable" and they must relate to "location, accessibility, and
suitability for warehousing and delivery purposes." If
the Board transcends those bounds, it violates the Act.
See § 6b. But within that area it has considerable
discretion.'
Hence it seems to us that no action of the Illinois Commission within the zone where the Board has freedom to
act would contravene the federal scheme of regulation.'
It would be quite a different matter if the Illinois Commission adopted rules for the Board which either violated
5 In the present proceeding the question of the validity of the existing rules and regulations of the Board of Trade under the Commodity
Exchange Act is not in issue, and we intimate no opinion upon it.
6 It is suggested that the regulations of the Board of Trade or those
which the Illinois Commerce Commission may impose on it are automatically invalid insofar as they relate to warehouses. For in Rice v.
Santa Fe Elevator Corp., supra, we have held that the United
States Warehouse Act excludes all state regulation, no matter how
complementary, of those subjects touched by the federal regulatory
scheme. But the situation here is quite different. In the first place,
we are dealing with a measure of regulation over warehouse receipts
not federal warehousemen; and the regulations which the Board of
Trade is authorized to formulate do not carry civil or criminal sanctions. In the second place, Congress by granting the Board of Trade
freedom to regulate within this narrow field has by that very act
negatived any inference that the Federal Government has preempted
it by requirements of its own.

RICE v. CHICAGO BOARD OF TRADE.
247

255

Opinion of the Court.

the standards of the Act or collided with rules of the Secretary. But such collision is not necessary; and we cannot
assume that the Illinois Commission will take any action
which in any way impairs the federal regulatory scheme.
There is other intrinsic evidence that Congress did not
preclude state regulation which supplements or bolsters
the federal scheme. Sections 4b and 4c of the Act make
unlawful a variety of fraudulent and deceptive practices
on contract markets. And § 4c provides that "nothing
in this section or section 4b shall be construed to impair
any State law applicable to any transaction enumerated
or described in such sections." These fraudulent practices, or many of them, have long been the occasion for the
exercise by the States of their historic police powers.
Federal regulation in those fields would therefore almost
certainly conflict with state laws. Thus the provision in
§ 4c serves the function of preventing supersedure and
preserving state control in two areas where state and
federal law overlap. Where Congress used such care to
preserve specific state authority, even when it duplicated
federal regulation, it is a fair inference not only that
supersedure was to take its natural course where rights not
saved to the States were involved, First Iowa HydroElectric Coop. v. Federal Power Commission,328 U. S. 152,
175, but also that non-conflicting state authority was left
undisturbed. Moreover the provision in § 12 of the Act
that the Secretary "may cooperate with any department
or agency of the Government, any State . . . or political

subdivision thereof" supports the inference that Congress
did not design a regulatory system which excluded state
regulation not in conflict with the federal requirements.
See Townsend v. Yeomans, 301 U. S. 441, 454; Union
Brokerage Co. v. Jensen, 322 U. S. 202, 209.
Respondents' claim of supersedure is, therefore, premature. Until it is known what rules the Illinois Commission will approve or adopt, it cannot be known whether

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Syllabus.

331 U. S.

there will be any conflict with the federal law. Any
claim of supersedure can be preserved in the state proceedings. And the question of supersedure can be determined in light of the impact of a specific order of the
state agency on the Federal Act or the regulations of the
Secretary thereunder. Only if that procedure is followed
can there be preserved intact the whole state domain
which in actuality functions harmoniously with the federal system. For even action which seems pregnant with
possibilities of conflict may, as consummated, be wholly
barren of it.
Reversed.

UNITED STATES v. FULLARD-LEO

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 429. Argued February 12, 1947.-Decided May 12, 1947.
1. On the facts of this case, including both an unbroken chain of
private conveyances and a claim of right to exclusive possession
since 1862, when possession of Palmyra Island was taken by respondents' predecessors in interest in the name of the King of
Hawaii, and on the presumption of a lost grant, the Government's
claim of title to Palmyra Island as successor to the Kingdom and
Republic of Hawaii is denied and fee simple title to the island is
quieted in respondents-notwithstanding their failure to show
actual occupancy of this isolated island in the Pacific Ocean except
for intermittent periods aggregating less than two and one-half
years out of 77 years since the origin of their cliim of title. Pp.
269-281.
2. A resolution adopted by the King and Cabinet Council of Hawaii
in 1862 authorizing respondents' predecessors in interest to take
possession of the island in the name of the King of Hawaii and
the formalities of annexation are construed as requiring only that
sovereignty over the island be acquired by the King and not as
requiring that title to the island should vest in the King or as being

