70

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
331 U. S.

Syllabus.

before Whirls returned and used the consolidation as an
excuse to deny Whirls reemployment rights, this Court
would hardly have approved so transparent a scheme.
The union has no more right to rely on the consolidation to
justify deprivation of seniority rights.

INDEPENDENT WAREHOUSES, INC.

ET

AL.

V.

SCHEELE, RECORDER OF THE TOWNSHIP OF

SADDLE RIVER,

ET AL.

APPEAL FROM THE COURT OF ERRORS AND APPEALS OF
NEW JERSEY.

No. 83.

Argued December 16, 1946.-Decided April 14,1947.

1. A New Jersey municipal ordinance which forbids carrying on the
business of storing goods for hire without payment of an annual
license tax does not violate the Commerce Clause of the Constitution when applied (in the circumstances of this case) to a warehouse in which coal shipped from another state is stored within
the municipality under a "transit" privilege, pending a decision
by the owner whether to ship it to another state or to another
point in the same state-even though most of the coal actually
is shipped to other states. Minnesota v. Blasius, 290 U. S. 1.
Pp. 79-85.
2. The fact that the ordinance applies only to commercial storage
facilities, and that there are no other commercial storage facilities
in the municipality subject to the tax, does not render the ordinance violative of the due process or equal protection clause of
the Fourteenth Amendment. P. 86.
3. The decision of the highest court of a State that a local tax is
valid under the law of the State is binding upon this Court.
Pp. 86-87.
4. The tax can not be held unconstitutional as excessive, where the
amount of it is not shown to be unrelated to the value of the
privilege conferred. P. 87.
5. The power of the State to impose the tax here in question can
not be defeated by private contractual arrangements such as those
here involved. P. 87.

INDEPENDENT WAREHOUSES v. SCHEELE.
70

71

Opinion of the Court.

6. The tax can not be deemed prohibitive in view of the fact that
it was imposed in lieu of other taxes of substantially the same
amount which had been paid in previous years. Pp. 87-88.
7. So far as the ordinance provides for the punishment of individuals
who work in unlicensed storage facilities, it violates no provision
of the Federal Constitution. P. 88.
8. One who has made no attempt to secure the license required by
the ordinance, is without standing to attack the constitutionality
of a provision which allegedly gives to the municipality an uncontrolled discretion to revoke licenses which may be issued.
P. 88.
9. The claim that the provision of the ordinance for cumulative
penalties violates the Fourteenth Amendment is without substance,
since the provision has not been applied in this case so as to impose
cumulative penalties, and since the provision is expressly made
separable if invalid. Pp. 88-89.
134 N. J. L. 133, 45 A. 2d 703, affirmed.

From convictions of violating a municipal ordinance
providing for the licensing of storage warehouses, the
appellants, a corporation and an individual, appealed.
The Supreme Court of New Jersey reversed the convictions. 132 N. J. L. 390, 40 A. 2d 796. The Court of
Errors and Appeals reversed, sustaining the convictions.
134 N. J. L. 133,45 A. 2d 703. Affirmed, p. 89.
Duane E. Minard argued the cause for appellants.
With him on the brief were Clement K. Corbin, Willis T.
Pierson and Edward A. Markley.
Harry Lane and Ralph W. Chandless argued the cause,

and Mr. Lane filed a brief, for appellees.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE delivered the opinion of the

Court.
An ordinance of Saddle River Township, New Jersey,
forbids carrying on the business of storing goods for hire

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

except upon the payment of an annual license tax.' Independent Warehouses, Inc., and Thompson, an agent of that
company, have been convicted and fined for conducting
such a business without procuring the license or paying
the tax. The convictions have been sustained by New
Jersey's highest court.' The appeal here seeks to have
that judgment reversed on the basis that the business done
was exclusively interstate and consequently the application made of the ordinance contravenes the commerce
clause of the Federal Constitution, Art. I, § 8. Fourteenth Amendment objections also are raised.'
The main thrust of the argument has been toward the
commerce clause phase of the case. In this the controversy is of the familiar "interruption" or "cessation" type.
The issue accordingly requires only a determination of the
proper application to be made of well-established legal
principles to the particular circumstances. It is whether
the cessation taking place in the movement of goods interstate, as shown by the record, is of a nature which permits
the state or a municipality to tax the goods or services,
here the business of storing them, rendered in connection
with their handling.4
The governing principles were stated in Minnesota v.
Blasius, 290 U. S. 1, 9-10, as follows:
".. . the States may not tax property in transit in

interstate commerce.

But, by reason of a break in the

'The material terms of the ordinance appear at note 9 infra and
text.
2

See text Part I infra. A prior suit in a federal district court to

enjoin enforcement was dismissed because of the existence of a "plain,
speedy, and efficient remedy" in the state courts. Independent Ware-

houses v. Saddle River Township, 52 F. Supp. 96; 28 U. S. C.
§41 (1).
3 Those

objections are discussed in Part III of this opinion.
non-discriminatory tax upon the business of storing" goods
which are not yet in interstate commerce is not forbidden. Federal
4 "A

Compress Co. v. McLean, 291 U. S.17, 21.

INDEPENDENT WAREHOUSES v. SCHEELE.

73

Opinion of the Court.

70

transit, the property may come to rest within a State
and become subject to the power of the State to
impose a non-discriminatory property tax.' Such an
exertion of state power belongs to that class of cases
in which, by virtue of the nature and importance of
local concerns, the State may act until Congress, if
it has paramount authority over the subject, substitutes its own regulation. The 'crucial question,' in
determining whether the State's taxing power may
thus be exerted, is that of 'continuity of transit.'
Carson Petroleum Co. v. Vial, 279 U. S.95, 101.
"If the interstate movement has not begun, the
mere fact that such a movement is contemplated does
not withdraw the property from the State's power to
tax it. .

.

. If the interstate movement has begun,

it may be regarded as continuing, so as to maintain
the immunity of the property from state taxation,
despite temporary interruptions due to the necessities of the journey or for the purpose of safety and
convenience in the course of the movement. ...
Formalities, such as the forms of billing, and mere
changes in the method of transportation do not affect
the continuity of the transit. The question is always
one of substance, and in each case it is necessary to
consider the particular occasion or purpose of the
interruption during which the tax is sought to be
levied. ...

"Where property has come to rest within a State,
being held there at the pleasure of the owner, for
disposal or use, so that he may dispose of it either
within the State, or for shipment elsewhere, as his
interest dictates, it is deemed to be a part of the
general mass of property within the State and is thus
subject to its taxing power."
6See note 4.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
331 U. S.

Opinion of the Court.

Since the circumstances characterizing the interruption
are of controlling importance, we turn to the details of
the movement and of the stoppage shown by the record.
I.
The suit is the culmination of a controversy extending
back to 1939, with earlier litigious chapters in the state
and federal courts. It grows out of the operation of facilities for storing and handling coal under various arrangements between the Erie Railroad Company and other
corporations affiliated for this and other enterprises by
stock ownership or by contract.
The Pennsylvania Coal Company is a wholly owned
subsidiary of Erie. It owns and operates coal mines in
Pennsylvania. In 1901 it acquired 67.25 acres of land
in Saddle River Township, New Jersey. This acreage
and its facilities, known as Coalberg, are located on the
New York, Susquehanna and Western Railroad and perform functions connected with that road's operations not
material to this cause. Coalberg also is connected directly with the Bergen County Railroad, a freight cutoff
of Erie. Its chief purpose, and the only one relevant to
this controversy, is to provide storage for coal shipped in
from the Coal Company's Pennsylvania mines and later
shipped out to various destinations.
Prior to 1939, Coalberg was operated by the Coal Company or its lessees as a private business, not as a public
utility. During this time the Township levied personal
property taxes upon the coal in storage, assessing and collecting them from its owners.' These were, as they are
now, chiefly coal distributors using Coalberg's storage facilities, principally because of their accessibility to distributing centers, especially in the vicinity of New York
imposition
Pennsylvania Coal

6 In 1921 the New Jersey Supreme Court sustained the

of these taxes against attack on various grounds.
Co. v. Saddle River, 96 N. J. L. 40.

INDEPENDENT WAREHOUSES v. SCHEELE.
70

75

Opinion of the Court.

City, and to shipping facilities both by rail and by
water.'
In 1939, however, by arrangements to be set forth involving Erie, the Coal Company and Independent Warehouses, Coalberg was converted into a public utility to
serve shippers of coal on Erie lines. Under New Jersey
law, goods stored in warehouses conducted for hire are
exempted from personal property taxes. Rev. Stat. N. J.
§ 54:4-3.20. The Township, despite the change in Coalberg's mode of operation, continued to levy such taxes on
the stored coal until the 1940 assessment was invalidated
in the state courts. Pattison & Bowns v. Saddle River
Township, 129 N. J. L. 135; 130 N. J. L. 177.
The municipality's resulting loss in revenue amounted
to about eight per cent of the total collected for local,
county and state purposes. To make up for this, as its
brief here candidly admits, the Township enacted the
ordinance now in question, acting under other provisions
of state law. N. J. Stat. Ann. §§ 40:52-1, 40:52-2. The
effect was to shift the direct incidence of the tax from
the owners of the coal, i. e., the shipper-distributors, to the
operator of the storage business and to change its character from a direct property tax to that of a license or
franchise tax for the privilege of conducting that business
in the state. The amount of revenue thus produced,
though in dispute, substantially will repair the loss suffered from invalidation of the property tax. This suit is
the outgrowth of the Township's effort to enforce the new
taxing provisions.
It is necessary to state in some detail the arrangements
made in 1939 by which the change was brought about in
7 Coalberg is located conveniently to tidewater ports, as
well as rail
facilities for distribution in northern New Jersey and elsewhere. The
distributors using Coalberg's facilities forward their coal not only
to the near-by metropolitan area of New York City and northern
New Jersey, but also to the New England States.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

the mode of operating Coalberg. An agreement then
made between the Coal Company and Erie provides that
the former shall operate Coalberg "as a public service
facility for shippers of prepared anthracite coal on Erie
lines desiring storage space in accordance with and under
the rates named in a certain Tariff on file with the Interstate Commerce Commission and the Public Utilities
Commission of the State of New Jersey . . . ." The
agreement recites that it is made in view of the considerations that the Coal Company has no need for Coalberg's
storage facilities and that they are of use to Erie in affording "facilities for the storage of prepared anthracite coal
for shippers on Erie lines whereon said Coalberg Storage
Yard is located so that shipments of coal may not be diverted to other and competing lines on which facilities for
coal storage are available . . ." Erie pays the net
monthly loss, if any, of operating the yard and the Coal
Company remits to Erie the net monthly surplus, if any.
Erie also undertakes to maintain an agent at Coalberg
duly authorized on its behalf to issue warehouse receipts
for coal placed in storage by shippers.
The Coal Company has discharged the operating function under its agreement with Erie by an arrangement also
made in 1939 with Independent Warehouses, which is a
New York corporation engaged in the warehousing business. The Coal Company leased Coalberg to Independent
Warehouses for $1.00 a year and the latter undertook to
operate the plant for a consideration which now amounts
to approximately $500 a year. The agreement between
the Coal Company and Erie governs the manner of Coalberg's operation by Independent Warehouses.
Under these arrangements purchasers from the Coal
Company who ship coal from the mines designate the
destination on the shipping papers. If they designate
Coalberg, the coal is sent there in railroad cars. It is unloaded to the storage pile where it is kept until ordered out

INDEPENDENT WAREHOUSES v. SCHEELE.
70

77

Opinion of the Court.

by the owner. It is then reloaded into railroad cars, and
when it is reshipped there is a new billing to the new destination. Most of the coal, after it has been stored, goes to
states other than New Jersey. Some, however, is marketed in New Jersey. It is disputed whether there is any
local distribution in the Township, but if so the amount is
comparatively insignificant.
The financial arrangements under the governing tariff
are as follows. On arrival of the shipments at Coalberg
the transportation charges on the movement from the
mine to Coalberg are paid to the Erie freight agent at
Coalberg. When the coal is moved again after storage,
the remainder of the through tariff rate from the point of
original shipment at the mine in Pennsylvania is paid.
This arrangement is known as the transit privilege. "The
privilege of transit enables grain [here coal] to be shipped
from point A to point B, there to be stored, marketed, or
processed, and later reshipped to point C at a rate less than
the combination of the separate rates from A to B and B
to C." Board of Trade v. United States, 314 U. S. 534,
537-538, and authorities cited.
The storage facilities given to shippers are free for a
period of two years,' although a charge is made by Erie for
unloading the cars into the stock pile and for reloading the
cars for reshipment. A charge is also made by Independent Warehouses upon such coal owners as obtain warehouse receipts from it.
" The tariff provides: "The period of time allowed for the storage
privilege and protection of the through rate from point of origin to
ultimate destination shall be two (2) years from date of delivery
at storage point, as shown on the inbound freight (expense) bill. The
Erie Railroad reserves the right to require owners to remove their
coal at the expiration of the two years period. Any coal which is not
reshipped within two (2) years will lose the privilege of being reshipped
at the through rates from point of origin to destinations beyond the
storage yard ......

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

The licensing ordinance applied in this case was adopted
in 1943, following upon the New Jersey decision in Pattison & Bowns v. Saddle River Township, supra. The
ordinance provides:
"No person, firm or corporation shall conduct or
carry on the business of the storage of personal property in a warehouse engaged in storing goods for hire
or work in, occupy, or, directly, or indirectly in any
manner whatsoever, utilize any place or premises in
which is conducted or carried on the storage of personal property in a warehouse engaged in the business of 'storing goods for hire, unless and until there
shall be granted by the Township Committee of the
Township of Saddle River in accordance with the
terms of this ordinance, and shall be in force and
effect, a license to conduct said business for the place
and premises in or at which said business shall be
conducted and carried on."
The ordinance specifies that for the license there shall be
charged and collected in advance an annual fee of threequarters of a cent for each square foot of ground in the
Township where the business is carried on. There is
also a penalty clause,9 in addition to other provisions not
now pertinent.
9 "Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any term or
provision of this ordinance shall upon conviction thereof be subject
to imprisonment in the County Jail or in any place provided by the
Township of Saddle River for the detention of prisoners, for a term
not exceeding ninety (90) days or to a fine not exceeding Two Hundred Dollars ($200.00), or both. Any person so convicted may, in
the discretion of the Magistrate by whom he was convicted, in default
of the payment of any fine be imprisoned in the County Jail or place
of detention provided by the Township of Saddle River, for any
term not exceeding ninety (90) days. . . . Each day that a violation
of any of the terms or provisions of this ordinance shall continue shall
constitute a separate offense."

INDEPENDENT WAREHOUSES v. SCHEELE.

79

Opinion of the Court.

70

Independent Warehouses did not apply for the license or
pay the tax for 1943. Consequently that company and
Thompson were convicted in the Magistrate's Court before appellee Scheele, the Recorder of the Township, for
having violated the ordinance by conducting the storage
operations at Coalberg without complying with its requirements. Each was fined $200.10 The Coal Company
and Erie were allowed to intervene when the case went
before the New Jersey Supreme Court, because of their
obvious interest in the outcome of the litigation. That
court held the ordinance unconstitutional as an undue
burden on interstate commerce and reversed the convictions. 132 N. J. L. 390. In turn the New Jersey Court
of Errors and Appeals reversed the Supreme Court's determination. 134 N. J. L. 133. It held that the ordinance
was valid under the provisions of state law, and that
neither the commerce clause nor the Fourteenth Amendment guaranties relied upon had been infringed. The
case comes here on appeal, pursuant to § 237 (a) of the
Judicial Code. See King Mfg. Co. v. Augusta, 277 U. S.
100; Jamison v. Texas, 318 U. S.413, 414.
II.
That the storage of the coal is part of a transit privilege
does not in itself sustain appellants' claim that the interstate movement had not stopped sufficiently for the state's
taxing power to attach when the coal reached and was
stored in Coalberg. Cf. Minnesota v. Blasius, supra;
Bacon v. Illinois, 227 U. S.504. It has long been recognized that transit privileges rest "upon the fiction that the
incoming and the outgoing transportation services, which
are in fact distinct, constitute a continuous shipment of
the identical article from point of origin to final destina10Thompson was to be imprisoned for 90 days in the event of default

in payment of his fine.

80

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

tion." Central Railroad Co. v. United States, 257 U. S.
247, 257. See also Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe R. Co. v.
United States, 279 U. S. 768, 779-780. Of course this
fiction, which may be desirable for ratemaking or other
purposes, cannot control the power of a state or municipality to tax activities properly subject to exercise of that
power apart from the fiction's application to them.
Indeed, the facts of this case demonstrate that here at
least the fiction is complete. They show that the journey
of the coal from the Pennsylvania mines to Coalberg and
the subsequent journeys upon leaving Coalberg were not
parts of a "continuity of transit" in the sense held by this
Court's previous decisions to preclude a valid exercise of
the states' taxing or regulatory powers. See, e. g., Pittsburg & Southern Coal Co. v. Bates, 156 U. S. 577; General
Oil Co. v. Crain, 209 U. S. 211; Bacon v. Illinois, supra;
Susquehanna Coal Co. v. South Amboy, 228 U. S.665.
A characteristic feature of those cases in which the
state has been allowed to tax property which has come to
rest after an interstate journey is that at the time the tax
is laid it cannot be determined what the ultimate destination or use of the property may be. Thus in General Oil
Co. v. Crain, supra, the oil was shipped to Memphis and
held there until required to supply orders from out-ofstate customers. In Brown v. Houston, 114 U. S. 622,
coal sent from Pennsylvania to New Orleans was held taxable in Louisiana because, although some of it was subsequently exported, it "was being held for sale to anyone
who might wish to buy." Champlain Co. v. Brattleboro,
260 U. S.366, 376. In Bacon v. Illinois, supra, the grain
sent to Bacon's elevator was at his complete disposal.
"He might sell the grain in Illinois or forward it as he saw
fit." Although his intention was to forward it after inspection, grading, etc., this purpose was held irrelevant.
227 U. S. at 516. And in Susquehanna Coal Co. v. South
Amboy, supra, although there was an anticipation of or-

INDEPENDENT WAREHOUSES v. SCHEELE.
70

81

Opinion of the Court.

ders for the coal unloaded at South Amboy, yet there were
no actual orders from customers. See also Nashville, C. &
St. L. R. Co. v. Wallace, 288 U. S.249; Edelman v. Boeing
Air Transport,289 U. S.249.
Those cases are indistinguishable from this one as to the
facts and the effect of the stoppage. Once the coal has
reached Coalberg, no one can determine, without receiving
an order from the owner, to what point or person it finally

will be sent or to what use it will be put. Indeed, at
the actual time of storage, even the owner may not know
where the coal will go next, for the very purpose of the
storage is in part to meet seasonal demand.1 And while
n It is to be noted however that the two-year period allowed by
the tariff for storage, see note 8, is longer than is necessary to allow
for meeting seasonal demand.
Storage-in-transit privileges are supplied, it is said, "as a result of
traffic demands." A witness gave the following illustrations:
"(a) Coal is a commodity of seasonal consumption. Most of it is
consumed in cold weather. If the mines could produce currently sufficient coal to meet cold weather requirements, the railroads would be
swamped with coal traffic during the fall and winter months when
other seasonal products are moving in large volume and weather conditions retard transportation operations. By spreading coal shipments for winter use over the months of most favorable operating
conditions, a more uniform transportation revenue is assured.
"(b) Coal dealers and consumers ship it more uniformly throughout
the year by using storage-in-transit privileges under railroad tariffs,
and use negotiable warehouse receipts to finance their purchases where
necessary.
"(c) The movement during warm weather of the bulk of the winter
coal supply avoids car storage and releases cars more rapidly than if
they arrived frozen solid, as they often do in winter, where delayed by
bad weather or had to wait unloading and use at the place of
consumption.
"(d) Experience has shown many instances, like those of recent
occurrence, when a supply of stored coal close to the market areas has
been necessary to prevent or relieve acute shortages of fuel in cases of
labor, weather, or other interruptions in production or transportation.
"(e) A uniform movement of coal during favorable operating conditions, avoids the congestion, delay and increased expense which

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

the form of billing is not conclusive, Minnesotav. Blasius,
supra, the fact that the coal is billed to Coalberg
and is not rebilled until the owner asks that it be released
from storage further shows that the final destination is
not known by the owner or by others.
Moreover, in all these cases the duration of the cessation
of transit is indefinite and in this case may extend as long
as two years without loss of transit privilege. Indeed,
except for that loss it may extend indefinitely, since under
the controlling tariff Erie does not require, but only reserves the right to require, removal at the end of two
years. 2 It is also significant that invariably the goods
are fungibles, a fact pointing up the fictional basis of the
in-transit privilege. The goods which are sent initially
into the interstate commerce stream are not the identical
goods which finally arrive at the place of consumption.
In view of all these considerations, the case falls more
appropriately in the category allowing the state's taxing
power to apply, than in the one denying its applicability.
The interruption hardly can be held to be "due to the
necessities of the journey or for the purpose of safety and
convenience in the course of the movement," Minnesota v.
Blasius, 290 U. S. at 9-10, broad as may be the latitude
given for such incidents of transit. More is involved here
than stopping to take advantage of such latitudes. The
case therefore is one, again in the language of the Blasius
case, "where property has come to rest within a State,
being held there at the pleasure of the owner, for disposal
or use, so that he may dispose of it either within the State,
otherwise attends rush and emergency transportation in winter
weather.
"(f) Such storage-in-transit facilitates a more uniform and steady
employment, not only of the miners but also of railroad employees, as
well as a more uniform and steady railroad revenue."
12

See note 8.

INDEPENDENT WAREHOUSES v. SCHEELE.
70

83

Opinion of the Court.

or for shipment elsewhere, as his interest dictates .....
290 U. S. at 10.
The facts bring the case exactly within this description,
although the record shows that most of the coal after storage goes to other states and little, if any, is distributed locally at Coalberg. Not what ultimately happens to the
goods or where they finally go, but the occasion and purpose of the interruption are controlling. "The question is
always one of substance, and in each case it is necessary to
consider the particular occasion or purpose of the interruption during which the tax is sought to be levied."
Minnesota v. Blasius, 290 U. S. at 10.
Here the cessation takes place not simply for the carrier's transit reasons relating to the necessities or convenience of the journey, but for reasons primarily concerned with the owner's business interests. As in the
Bacon and Susquehanna Coal cases, supra, he is entirely
free to keep or market the goods in New Jersey or to send
them elsewhere. Marketing considerations primarily,
and it may be exclusively, determine this choice and many
or all of the controlling factors may not arise until after
the coal has reached Coalberg or indeed many months
later.
The situation in this respect is not materially different
from those involved in the Susquehanna Coal, Bacon,
and other cases cited, or indeed from one in which a coal
distributor might place his storage facilities at some distance from his place of market, as at a near-by way station,
in order to reduce the cost of his storage operations. That
reasons of economy and convenience or even of necessity
arising from the absence or prohibitive cost of storage
space at the immediate point of distribution might lead
him thus to locate his storage operations, and thereby
incur the necessity and expense of hauling the goods from
storage to market, hardly could be held to make the inter755552 0--48-10

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

ruption an incident of transit rather than one of his own
business policy and interest. That he may secure the
same advantages by using the storage facilities of others
for like purposes, rather than his own, does not change the
result. In neither case does the arrangement defeat the
state's power to tax his property so located or his business
thus conducted.
Moreover, as has been noted, some of the coal remains
in New Jersey, being shipped out from Coalberg as the
shipper directs. As to this all interstate transportation
has ended. The fact that the owner elects to take advantage of Coalberg's storage facilities for conducting his
storage operations rather than his own located at the
point or points of final distribution in New Jersey, whether
near to Coalberg or at some distance, does not make the
final wholly intrastate movement between those points a
leg of the initial interstate movement begun at the mine.
As for the coal moving out of Coalberg interstate, the
fact that this movement crosses a state line makes it of
course an interstate movement. But this does not make it
part of a continuous journey beginning at the mine and
ending in the second state of destination. Indeed, not
until after the storage has taken place is it determined or
can it be known whether this coal will move out of Coalberg interstate or intrastate. And this is because it cannot
be known before that time whether the owner's interest,
disconnected from the ordinary and usual incidents of
transportation, will dictate one market or use rather than
another. Interruptions thus governed cannot be classified as interruptions merely incident to transit or dictated
by its necessities or convenience.
The 1939 change in Coalberg's mode of operation did
not alter in any substantial way the character, duration
or purpose of the stoppage. Since then as before, the
primary reasons dictating the shippers' action in taking

INDEPENDENT WAREHOUSES v. SCHEELE.
70

85

Opinion of the Court.

advantage of it are their business reasons rather than transit reasons as such. Accordingly the state's power to tax
the goods stored could not be affected by that change.
That the state has chosen to discontinue exercising it as a
matter of state taxing policy can make no difference in this
respect. Nor can this fact, or the change in method of
operation, defeat the state's power to tax the business of
furnishing the facilities for storage, since that business
also becomes local or interstate depending upon the purposes of the stoppage, whether for transit reasons or
chiefly for nontransit ones.
The authorities above cited, it is true, generally involved
property taxes levied upon the stored coal. But their controlling principle applies equally to franchise or other
taxes upon the business of furnishing the storage facilities.
Cf. GeneralOil Co. v. Crain,209 U. S. 211; American Steel
& Wire Co. v. Speed, 192 U. S. 500. It would be an impermissible anomaly to hold that the goods stored may be
taxed, because the interruption of transit is for nontransit
purposes, but that the business of furnishing the facilities
for storing them is not affected or governed legally by
the same purposes, for applying the state's powers of
taxation.
Accordingly, the case is governed by the prior decisions
allowing states and municipalities to tax in situations of
this sort. It follows that the tax is not forbidden because
it is part of a licensing measure. Even where it is undisputed that the commerce is exclusively interstate in nature, "not the mere fact or form of licensing, but what the
license stands for by way of regulation is important."
Robertson v. California, 328 U. S. 440, 458. See also
Union Brokerage Co. v. Jensen, 322 U. S 202; Federal
Compress Co. v. McLean, 291 U. S. 17. Nor does anything
in the Interstate Commerce Act forbid local taxation where
it is otherwise permissible. The tax therefore is valid
under the commerce clause.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

III.
Whether the tax and the licensing measure as applied
may stand under the Fourteenth Amendment also must
be considered. Appellants say that the ordinance is discriminatory and unreasonable. Discrimination is claimed
because the ordinance is applicable only to commercial
warehouses and not to private warehouses and because
there are no other commercial warehousing facilities in
the Township subject to the tax. This contention is
grounded on the provisions of New Jersey law, noted
above, exempting property stored in commercial warehouses from taxation. It also is closely related to the
further claim that the tax is prohibitory and unreasonable,
and the two claims may be considered together.
"It is inherent in the exercise of the power to tax
that a state be free to select the subjects of taxation
and to grant exemptions. Neither due process nor
equal protection imposes upon a state any rigid rule
of equality of taxation. . . . This Court has repeatedly held that inequalities which result from a singling
out of one particular class for taxation or exemption,
infringe no constitutional limitation." Carmichael
v. Southern Coal & Coke Co., 301 U. S. 495, 509.
We need not consider in this connection the ultimate
power of the state to tax, 3 for we are of opinion that
neither the selection made here nor the amount of the
tax is barred by the Fourteenth Amendment.
The New Jersey Court of Errors and Appeals has held
that the present tax is not an illegal evasion of the state
laws exempting personal property in commercial warehouses from property taxes, and that the municipality
13 See the dissenting opinion of Mr. Justice Brandeis in Liggett Co.
v. Lee, 288 U. S. at 570 ff.

INDEPENDENT WAREHOUSES v. SCHEELE.
70

87

Opinion of the Court.

was empowered by state law to levy this tax. Those rulings are conclusive upon us. Nor is it material to any
question we have to decide that the practical result of
the valid taxing power given the municipality enabled it
to make up the loss in revenue suffered when Coalberg
was transformed to a public facility.
Constitutionally speaking, the tax is not invalid as
being unreasonably large for the privilege conferred. 4 It
is not shown that the exaction is unrelated to the value
of the privilege conferred and the Court of Errors and
Appeals found to the contrary. 15 Private contractual arrangements, such as have been made here, 6 cannot be
effective to defeat the state's power to impose such a tax,

with the practical effect of relieving the real beneficiaries
of the privilege from all taxation by virtue of their success
in shunting its burden contractually to the nominal operator. 7

And the suggestion that the tax under the ordi-

nance is prohibitive can carry no weight in view of the fact
The tax, however, may be somewhat larger than the aggregate of
the former personal property taxes. Personal property taxes paid
prior to 1939 amounted to about $12,000 a year. Estimates of this tax
given in the record vary from about that sum to around $20,000 a year.
The variation corresponds to different estimates of the area, in terms
of footage, constituting the base for calculation of the tax.
15 See note 14. Cf. the dissenting opinion of Mr. Justice Brandeis in
Liggett Co. v. Lee, 288 U. S. at 573, "The Federal Constitution does
not require that taxes . . . be proportionate to the differences in benefits received by the taxpayers . . . or that taxes be proportionate to
the taxpayer's ability to bear the burden."
16 The record discloses that the present agreements between Independent Warehouses and the coal company are from year to year until
terminated upon notice.
17 Cf. Browning v. Waycross, 233 U. S. 16, 23; Federal Compress
Co. v. McLean, 291 U. S. 17, 22: "It is not within the power of the
parties, by the descriptive terms of their contract, to convert a local
business into an interstate commerce business protected by the interstate commerce clause."
14

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

that substantially equal personal property taxes were paid
prior to 1939.18
Appellants' other arguments may be given shorter disposition. The contention that Thompson's conviction is
"unlawful" is answered by the decision of the New Jersey
Court of Errors and Appeals which held that the municipality possesses the power which it exercised to convict
persons working in unlicensed warehousing premises as
well as to prohibit corporations and others from carrying
on the business of warehousing without obtaining a license.
Thompson was convicted not for his employer's act but for
his own.
It is suggested also that the ordinance gives to the municipality an uncontrolled discretion to revoke the license
and is therefore invalid for uncertainty, since it permits
the Township Committee to "revoke any such license for
sufficient cause after notice and hearing." Appellants
have made no attempt to secure a license and therefore are
not in position to attack the revocation provisions of the
ordinance. Cf. Bourjois, Inc. v. Chapman, 301 U. S. 183,
188, and authorities cited.
Finally the ordinance is said to be invalid because of
the provision for cumulative penalties. 9 The penal provisions however have not been imposed cumulatively in
this case. Moreover the New Jersey Court has held them
separable,"' if illegal. In such circumstances, the objecSee note 14.
19The ordinance makes each day's continuance of violation a
separate offense.
20 The New Jersey Court of Errors and Appeals stated: "The ordinance contains a provision that in case 'any section or part' thereof
shall be held illegal or unconstitutional, such invalidity 'shall not be
construed as impairing the force and effect of the remainder of the
ordinance.' If it be conceded arguendo that the cumulative penalty
clause is invalid in whole or in part, the remainder of the provision
for sanctions is severable and would stand unaffected. 134 N. J. L.
at 144.
18

INDEPENDENT WAREHOUSES v. SCHEELE.
70

FRANKFURTER,

89

J., concurring.

tion that the mere unapplied provision for cumulation
violates the Fourteenth Amendment is without substance.
Louisville & N. R. Co. v. Garrett,231 U. S. 298, 311, and
authorities cited.
The judgment is
Affirmed.
MR.

JUSTICE FRANKFURTER,

concurring.

The dissenting views lead me to add a few words to the
Court's opinion, in which I join.
Nearly thirty-five years ago Mr. Justice Holmes observed that "one in my place sees how often a local policy
prevails with those who are not trained to national views
and how often action is taken that embodies what
the Commerce Clause was meant to end." (Holmes,
Speeches, Law and the Court, 98, 102). His concern has
not lost force with time, and it is important to be duly
mindful of it whenever a State claims the power to tax in
a situation like that now before us.
Equally relevant are other observations by Mr. Justice
Holmes regarding this problem. "It being once admitted,
as of course it must be, that not every law that affects
commerce among the States is a regulation of it in a
constitutional sense, nice distinctions are to be expected.
Regulation and commerce among the States both are
practical rather than technical conceptions, and, naturally, their limits must be fixed by practical lines." Galveston, Harrisburg,etc. R. Co. v. Texas, 210 U. S. 217, 225.
And so, this Court has sustained a tax upon the mining of
ore although substantially all the ore left the State and was
put upon cars for that purpose by the same act by which
it was produced. Oliver Iron Co. v. Lord, 262 U. S. 172.
Mr. Justice Holmes joined in that opinion although
"There could not be a case of a State's product more
certainly destined to interstate commerce." Holmes, J.,
dissenting in Pennsylvania v. West Virginia, 262 U. S.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
FRANKFURTER,

J.,

concurring.

331 U. S.

553, 600, 601. Again, the Court has held that a State
may impose a non-discriminatory tax on goods which,
although connected "as a general course of business" with
"a flow of interstate commerce," "has come to rest and has
acquired a situs within the State" at "a depot...
for another interstate journey." Minnesota v. Blasius,
290 U. S. 1, 8, 11. For the practical purposes which
determine the constitutional issue there can be no
difference between taxing such goods as property and
taxing the business of being a depot for such goods.
In striking the constitutional balance between State and
national powers, figures of speech are treacherous. The
ore which Minnesota was allowed to tax in the Lord case,
and the cattle which Minnesota was allowed to tax in the
Blasius case, were in no practical sense less in the "flow
of commerce" than the coal the storage of which was the
business subjected to a non-discriminatory license tax by
New Jersey.
Nor can it make a difference that this storage business
was conducted by a concern controlled by the coal-carrying
road. If a wholly independent storage concern would
have had to pay a license tax, the controlling constitutional principles require no different result because the
storage facility is a subsidiary of a railroad. Presumably
there are good business reasons for the use of such a subsidiary corporation. Compare Edwards v. Chile Copper
Co., 270 U. S. 452, 456. Those reasons are equally valid
for the State's taxing purposes. It cannot be said that
New Jersey has given no opportunities, has afforded no
protection, and has conferred no benefits upon Independent Warehouses, Inc., merely because in an ultimate sense
there is a financial identification between Independent
Warehouses and the Erie Railroad. Compare Wisconsin
v. J. C. Penney Co., 311 U. S. 435, 444. If what was here
involved were merely an occasional and transient storage

INDEPENDENT WAREHOUSES v. SCHEELE.
70

JACKSON,

91

J., dissenting.

of coal moving from Pennsylvania to New York, New
Jersey could not levy a property tax on the coal nor a
license tax 'for the storing of it. The controlling consideration here is that there was storage of the coal precisely
like the holding of the cattle in the Blasius case. In both
cases there was a sufficiently distinct and permanent break
in the process of transportation between the States so
as to give rise to interests in the State of storage to justify
the exertion of its non-discriminatory taxing power. For
me this case is controlled by Susquehanna Coal Co. v.
South Amboy, 228 U. S. 665. Here, as in that case, there
was something more "than an incidental interruption of
the continuity" of the coal's "journey through the State."
There was "a business purpose and advantage in the delay
which was availed of, and while it was availed of, the
products secured the protection of the State." 228 U. S.
at 668 and 669. Thereby the State's power to tax arose.
The fact that for railroad-rate purposes this storage was
treated as part of a transit privilege does not affect the
relation of the storage to the taxing powers of the State.
Assuming that such a storage may properly be treated as
a stop-over privilege under the Interstate Commerce Act,
it does not follow that the break in the process of interstate transportation is not of such significance in its relation to a State as to allow that State to tax the protection given to the property during the break as well as
the opportunity afforded in conducting the business
for such separable and enduring storage in the State.
MR. JUSTICE JACKSON,

with whom

THE CHIEF JUSTICE

joins, dissenting.
The Erie Railroad Company is a common carrier engaged in interstate commerce. By a specific tariff filed
with the Interstate Commerce Commission pursuant to
the Interstate Commerce Act, it and several other rail

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

331 U. S.

carriers have long published a joint and proportional
through-tariff on anthracite coal from coal mining stations
in Pennsylvania to points in New York and New Jersey.
The tariff provides for storage-in-transit services at Coalberg, New Jersey, with reshipment to destination under
original agreements. Independent Warehouses, Inc., as
contract agent for the Erie, operates these storage-intransit facilities, has custody of the coal in storage under
Erie tariffs as a public warehouseman, and issues warehouse receipts for coal received under railroad waybills.
Title to Coalberg is in the Pennsylvania Coal Co., a
wholly-owned subsidiary of Erie, and it receives from Independent Warehouses one dollar per year for its lease.
The Erie ultimately bears all losses and gets all gains. It
is apparent that Coalberg is a facility for storage in transit
of coal operated as part of the Erie's interstate transportation service.
The function of the storage in transit is vital. During
the summer season, consumption of anthracite coal is
light and neither dealers nor consumers in the City of
New York and elsewhere are able to store adequate winter
reserves. At critical times there would be grave danger of
inadequate fuel supplies from interruptions of transportation or of mining operations if stock piles were not accumulated near consuming centers, such as New York, to
be drawn upon in periods of peak demand. Therefore, the
railroad accepts coal shipments which it mingles in stock
piles at Coalberg, near New York, with the privilege to
the shipper of ordering the same grade and quantity sent
on to destination as needed. When orders for reshipment
come, they are drawn from stock piles and delivered. Storage-in-transit is a device to equalize the demands on coal
transportation facilities and to provide a reserve supply
of coal for periods when consumption exceeds production,
to enable movement away from the mines during the

INDEPENDENT WAREHOUSES v. SCHEELE.
70

JACKSON,

93

J., dissenting.

period when production exceeds consumption, and to finance future purchases by warehouse receipts issued
against coal in transit. It is an essential part of dependable and low-cost transportation of anthracite coal from
the mines to the great metropolitan consuming area.
For the privilege of operating this storage-in-transit
facility at Coa.lberg in New Jersey, the municipality demands an annual license fee, in advance, which it is alleged would amount to $20,475. This is merely for the
privilege of doing the business. The property used in
the operation is also subject to the usual property tax on
a valuation of $133,875, which is not in question.
The issue is whether this local privilege tax unconstitutionally burdens interstate commerce. The burden and
its substantiality are undeniable, but the Court concludes
that these local assessments upon interstate traffic are
within the power of the state and, of course, the amount,
be it $20,000 per year or $20,000,000 per year, is wholly
for the local authorities to determine if their power to tax
is upheld.
I cannot agree that the commerce clause of the Federal
Constitution has left interstate traffic vulnerable to such
local permissions and burdens. Because the immediate
impact of the tax is on a railroad, we should not delude ourselves as to its real effect. It is a tax on traffic-on the
movement of goods-and its weight is shifted from the
carrier to the consumer. There is, of course, a "local incident," a stoppage in transit, a reloading. "Local incidents" of some sort can be identified in all interstate transportation. But in this case local sales or deliveries are
insubstantial in amount. The whole operation is incidental to interstate transportation and not to any local
business. It is integrated in operation, ownership and
management with transportation. It is under the federal
commerce power and under Interstate Commerce Commis-

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
JACKSON,

J., dissenting.

331 U. S.

sion regulation. The stoppage may be longer than many
other stoppages in transit incident to railroading. But the
storage of perpetually renewed and continuously drawnupon stock piles is no longer than necessary to adapt transportation facilities to the needs of an economy, one end of
which must engage in continuous production and the other
in only seasonal consumption. That a single municipality
or state can fasten local tax burdens upon such an incident
makes interstate commerce vulnerable to the very barriers
and obstructions the commerce clause of the Constitution
was designed to end.
The unedifying story of Colonial rivalry in preying upon
commerce, which more than any one thing made our Federal Constitution a necessity, is too often told by historians
to justify repetition. This tax is reminiscent, however,
of some phases of that commercial warfare. In 1787 New
York was being supplied with firewood from Connecticut
and much farm produce from New Jersey. It seized upon
"local incidents" to lay a tax. Every sloop which came
down through Hell Gate, every cart of firewood entering
the city, and every market boat rowed across the Hudson
River had to pay heavy entrance duties. Then came retaliatory measures. See Fiske, The Critical Period of
American History,Chap. IV. These chronic quarrels were
destroying the trade of all the rivals, and it was sought
by the Constitution to free trade from local burdens and
controls.
This New Jersey tax on transportation of New York's
coal supply is more dangerous in the end than the old New
York tax on its own firewood. In that case the consumers
who ultimately would pay the tax also controlled the government which shortsightedly laid the tax. It was a tariff,
and the tariff-ridden people could remove it.
But .here the ultimate burden of the tax falls on consumers of New York and elsewhere who have no repre-

INDEPENDENT WAREHOUSES v. SCHEELE.
70

JACKSON,

95

J., dissenting.

sentation in the government which lays the tax and fixes
its amount. The authorities who fix the tax will never
have to answer to those who pay it. That is the evil of
"taxation without representation." Here is a tax that
falls immediately upon a single taxpayer, for it does not
appear that any other is similarly affected. It is a tax
that falls ultimately on non-residents of the taxing authority. If it is valid, I know of no reason why the community
should bear any of its own tax burdens. This is the great
vice of these local burdens on interstate movement of
goods. If this is not the sort of burden and barrier to a
nation's free trade that our commerce clause was designed
to end, I should think one would be hard put to find an
example. This decision represents a trend that seems to
me quite out of the spirit of our history and quite as detrimental to our commercial welfare and unity. See my
concurring opinion, Duckworth v. Arkansas, 314 U. S. 390,
397. I am not unaware of the needs of this locality, as
of all others, for revenue. But it seems to me that the
activities at Coalberg are as fully in the current of interstate commerce as those we held immune from state taxation in Freeman v. Hewit, 329 U. S. 249, and Joseph v.
Carter & Weekes Stevedoring Co., 330 U. S. 422. The
storage-in-transit service is as essential to maintaining
and as much a part of the flow of coal as loading and
unloading of goods shipped in interstate commerce is of
that commerce. The Constitution laid restraints upon
each locality lest their local advantages be pursued at the
cost of the commerce on which the prosperity of all depends. I would reverse the judgment.

