OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Syllabus.

331 U. S.

mentation-resolution of jurisdictional doubts properly
takes into account the strong policy of Congress, expressed
through a series of judiciary acts, not to cast burdens upon
the federal courts which interfere with the effective discharge of their functions. See, for instance, American
Security & Trust Co. v. District of Columbia, 224 U. S.
491, and Phillips v. United States, 312 U. S. 246, 250-51.
These are considerations that will seem far afield to the
issues of this case only if its decision is not related to the
workings of the federal judiciary in the light of its
history.

INTERSTATE NATURAL GAS CO., INC. v. FED-

ERAL POWER COMMISSION
CERTIORARI

TO THE CIRCUIT

ET AL.

COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE

FIFTH CIRCUIT.

No. 733. Argued May 2, 1947.-Decided June 16, 1947.
A natural gas company subject to the Natural Gas Act of 1938, 52
Stat. 821, produces some gas and purchases some gas, which it
mingles and conducts through a system of field, branch and main
lines (all within a single state) into its main trunk line, whence it
is sold to interstate pipeline companies for transportation, resale
and ultimate consumption in other states. The entire movement
from the wells to the purchasing companies, through their compression pumps and across the state lines is a continuous process
without interruption for storage, processing or any other purpose.
Held: The Federal Power Commission has jurisdiction under § 1 (b)
of the Natural Gas Act to regulate such sales. Pp. 686-693.
(a) Such sales are "in interstate commerce" within the meaning
of § 1 (b) of the Natural Gas Act. Pp. 687-689.
(b) They are not within the clause of § 1 (b) which excepts
"the production or gathering" of natural gas from the Commission's
regulatory jurisdiction. Pp. 689-693.
156 F. 2d 949, affirmed.

INTERSTATE GAS CO. v. POWER COMM'N.
682

683

Opinion of the Court.

The Federal Power Commission issued an order under

§ 5 (a) of the Natural Gas Act of 1938, 52 Stat. 821, requiring petitioner to effect substantial rate reductions in
certain of its sales of natural gas and to file new schedules
of rates and charges. 3 F. P. C. 416. The Circuit Court
of Appeals denied a review. 156 F. 2d 949. This Court
granted certiorari limited to the question of the Commission's jurisdiction. 330 U. S. 852. Affirmed, p. 693.
William A. Dougherty argued the cause for petitioner.
'With him on the brief were Henry P. Dart, Jr. and James
Lawrence White.
By special leave of Court, James D. Smullen, Assistant
Attorney General, argued the cause for the State of Texas
et al., as amici curiae, urging reversal. With him on the
brief was Price Daniel,Attorney General.
Charles E. McGee argued the cause for the Federal
Power Commission, respondent. With him on the brief
were Acting Solicitor General Washington and Louis W.
McKernan.
Briefs of amici curiae were filed in support of petitioners
by Mac Q. Williamson, Attorney General, for the State of
Oklahoma; and Donald C. McCreery, Wesley E. Disney,
Charles I. Francis,Russell B. Brown, L. Dan Jones, Forrest' M. Darrough, Hiram M. Dow, Walace Hawkins,
Harold L. Kennedy, L. G. Owen and William Henry Rector for the Independent Natural Gas Association of
America et al.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE VINSON

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This case originated in proceedings before the Federal
Power Commission initiated pursuant to § 5 (a) of the
755552 0-48-47

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

Natural Gas Act of 1938.1 After overruling objections to
its jurisdiction, the Commission entered an order requiring the petitioner to effect substantial rate reductions in
certain of its sales of natural gas and to file new schedules
of rates and charges.' Petitioner, in seeking review of the
order in the Circuit Court of Appeals, denied the jurisdiction of the Commission to set rates for the sales in issue
in this case and asserted that the rates so established were
confiscatory. That Court, one judge dissenting, denied
the petition for review.3 We granted certiorari limited to
the question of the Commission's jurisdiction.
Petitioner owns and operates 110 natural gas wells and
owns or controls over 56,000 acres in the Monroe field of
northern Louisiana. Petitioner's main pipe line transports gas southward from the Monroe field through a part
of Mississippi and back into Louisiana, where at Baton
Rouge sales are made to various distributing companies
and industrial consumers. Petitioner concedes that with
respect to these operations it is a natural gas company
within the meaning of § 2 (6)' of the Act and that the
Commission has jurisdiction to regulate the rates of sales
connected therewith.
The issue of this case involves the jurisdiction of the
Federal Power Commission to regulate sales made in the
field by petitioner to three pipe-line companies, each of
which transports the gas so purchased to markets in States
other than Louisiana.5 Gas produced from petitioner's
1 52 Stat.

821, 15 U. S. C. § 717 et seq.; 56 Stat. 83.

3 F. P. C. 416.
8 156 F. 2d 949 (1946).
2

4 Section 2 (6) provides: "'Natural-gas company' means a person
engaged in the transportation of natural gas in interstate commerce,

or the sale in interstate commerce of such gas for resale."
5The

three companies include the Mississippi River Fuel Corporation, Southern Natural Gas Company, and the United Gas Pipe Line
Company to which gas is sold for the account of the Memphis Natural
Gas Company.

INTERSTATE GAS CO. v. POWER COMM'N.
682

685

Opinion of the Court.

wells flows into petitioner's system of field pipe lines, moving first into branch lines, then into trunk lines, and finally
into the main trunk lines from which delivery is made to
the three purchasing companies. During the course of this
movement petitioner purchases gas from other producers
in the field which gas is introduced into petitioner's system
at designated points and is there commingled with the gas
moving from petitioner's own wells. By far the larger
part of the gas so purchased by petitioner has been gathered from various wells of the selling companies before
delivery to petitioner is made.6 The gas moves through
petitioner's system at well pressure. Shortly after the
sales in question are completed, the gas is directed through
the compressor stations of the purchasing companies and
is there subjected to increased pressure in order that it may
be moved to markets as far distant as Illinois. The entire
movement of the gas from the wells to the purchasing companies through the compressor pumps and across the state
lines is a continuous process without interruption for storage, processing or for any other purpose.! All the gas
sold in these transactions is destined for ultimate public
consumption in States other than Louisiana.
It appears that petitioner supplies only a part of the gas
purchased by the three pipe-line companies in the Monroe
6

Petitioner produced and purchased a total of 51,659,799 Mcf

of gas in the Monroe field during 1941. Of this total, petitioner
produced from its own wells 28,819,814 Mcf. Of the 22,839,985
Mef purchased, 95% was gathered by the producers before delivery
to petitioner; the remaining 5% was purchased by petitioner directly
at the well heads. Petitioner sold 21,863,278 Mcf to the three purchasing companies in the transactions in question.
7 Gas in the Monroe field is "dry" gas and consequently is not subjected to any extraction processing. Before moving into the compressor pumps the gas is run through a series of "scrubbers" which
remove dirt and foreign particles. This is accomplished, however,
without interruption in the movement.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

field.' Counsel for petitioner conceded before the Commission that the prices charged the three pipe-line companies were, by agreement, identical with those being
charged by other producers in the field. The Commission
found that petitioner was an affiliate of one of the three
purchasing companies. It was the conclusion of the Commission that the rates charged by petitioner in these sales
were "unjust, unreasonable and unlawful" and ordered
rate reductions amounting to $596,320 per year as applied
to the volume of gas sold in the test year of 1941.
Petitioner has at no time contended that regulation of
its sales to the three purchasing companies is beyond the
constitutional powers of Congress. Petitioner has vigorously asserted, however, that Congress did not exercise its
full powers in the Natural Gas Act and that in § 1 (b) of
the Act the jurisdiction of the Federal Power Commission
is so limited as to preclude valid regulation of the sales by
that agency. Section 1 (b) provides:
"The provisions of this Act shall apply to the transportation of natural gas in interstate commerce, to the
sale in interstate commerce of natural gas for resale
for ultimate public consumption for domestic, commercial, industrial, or any other use, and to naturalgas companies engaged in such transportation or sale,
but shall not apply to any other transportation or sale
of natural gas or to the local distribution of natural
gas or to the facilities used for such distribution or to
the production or gathering of natural gas."
It is not denied that the transactions in question were
sales of natural gas for resale for ultimate public
consumption.
8 The transactions in question supply the Mississippi Fuel Corp.
with 22% of its requirements, 24% of the requirements of the Memphis Natural Gas Co., and 16.61% of the requirements of Southern
Natural Gas Co.

INTERSTATE GAS CO. v. POWER COMM'N.
682

687

Opinion of the Court.

Petitioner has raised two issues: First, it is contended,
the sales are not "in interstate commerce." Second, the
sales are a part of "production or gathering" and hence not
within the Commission's power of regulation.
We have no doubt that the sales are in interstate commerce. Indeed, petitioner did not contest that position
before the Commission, but, so far as the record reveals,
raised the issue for the first time in its petition for rehearing in the Circuit Court of Appeals.' The Federal Power
Commission found that the gas sold to the three pipe-line
companies moves ".

.

. in a constant flow from the mouths

of the wells from which it is produced through pipe lines
belonging to Interstate to the compressor station of the
respective purchaser, and thence through said compressor
stations into the pipe line of said respective purchaser and
thus into and through states other than Louisiana . . . ,
all without interruption, and said gas is so destined from
the moment of its production." The Commission further
found that "The gas transported and sold by Interstate
to these three pipe line companies continues its flow in
interstate commerce and, as an established course of business well known to Interstate, is destined for resale for
ultimate public consumption in

. .

. markets outside

Louisiana."
Under the circumstances described by the Commission,
it is clear that the sales in question were quite as much
in interstate commerce as they would have been had the
9 In its complaint filed in the District Court for the Eastern District
of Louisiana invoking the equity powers of the Court to restrain the
Louisiana Public Service Commission from conducting an investigation into petitioner's rates and charges, petitioner specifically asserted
that the sales in question are in interstate commerce and thus beyond
the jurisdiction of the state commission. The District Court granted
the requested relief. Interstate Natural Gas Co. v. Public Service
Commission, 33 F. Supp. 50; 34 F. Supp. 980 (1940).

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

pipes of the petitioner crossed the state line before reaching the points of sale.' ° Thus in Public Utilities Commission v. Attleboro Steam & Electric Co., 273 U. S. 83
(1927), a sale of electrical energy at the state line was
held to be in interstate commerce. Commenting on that
case, this Court in Jersey Central Power & Light Co. v.
Federal Power Commission, 319 U. S. 61, 69 (1943)
stated: "We see no distinction between a sale at or before
reaching the state line." There is nothing in the terms of
the Act or in its legislative history to indicate that Congress intended that a more restricted meaning be attributed to the phrase "in interstate commerce" than that
which theretofore had been given to it in the opinions of
this Court. 1 Section 2 (7) of the Act defines "interstate
commerce" as ". . . commerce between any point in a
State and any point outside thereof, or between points
within the same State but through any place outside
"
Clearly the sales in question were a part
thereof .....
of commerce being carried on between points in Louisiana
and points in other States. There is nothing in that language to suggest that Congress intended that sales consummated before the gas crosses a state line should not
be regarded as being "in" such commerce.
10 Shafer v. Farmers Grain Co., 268 U. S. 189 (1925); Lemke v.
Farmers Grain Co., 258 U. S. 50 (1922); Dahnke-Walcer Milling Co.
v. Bondurant, 257 U. S. 282 (1921). And see Illinois Natural Gas Co.
v. Central Illinois Public Service Co., 314 U. S. 498, 503-504 (1942) ;
Currin v. Wallace, 306 U. S. 1, 10 (1939); Peoples Natural Gas Co. v.
Public Service Comm'n, 270 U. S. 550, 554 (1926); Illinois Central
R. Co. v. Railroad Comm'n, 236 U. S. 157, 163 (1915). Cf. Milk
Control Board v. Eisenberg Farm Products,306 U. S. 346 (1939).
I' Illinois Natural Gas Co. v. Central Illinois Public Service Co., 314
U. S. 498, 508 (1942); Peoples Natural Gas Co. v. Federal Power
Comm'n, 75 U. S. App. D. C. 235, 127 F. 2d 153 (1942). Cf. Jersey
Central Power & Light Co. v. Federal Power Comm'n, 319 U. S. 61,
70-71 (1943).

INTERSTATE GAS CO. v. POWER COMM'N.
682

689

Opinion of the Court.

Nor are we impressed with the suggestion that the interstate movement of the gas should be regarded as beginning
when the gas, theretofore moving through petitioner's pipe
line system at well pressure, is subjected to increased pressure in the compressor stations of the purchasing companies in order that the gas may be moved to the distant
markets. Long before the gas reaches the compressor
pumps it has been committed to its interstate journey
which follows without interruption or deviation. Under
such circumstances, the increase of pressure in the compressor stations must be regarded as merely an incident in
the interstate commerce rather than as its origin. 12
The Company contends, however, that regardless of
whether the sales in question are in interstate commerce,
those transactions fall within the clause of § 1 (b) specifically excepting from the Commission's jurisdiction regulation of ".

.

. the production or gathering of natural gas."

In evaluating that contention we should not lose sight of
the objectives sought to be accomplished by Congress in
passing the Natural Gas Act.
In a series of decisions announced prior to the passage
of the Act, this Court had held that, although Congress
had not acted, the regulation of wholesale rates of gas and
electrical energy moving in interstate commerce is beyond
the constitutional powers of the States. 13 Petitioner,
relying in part upon the principles established by those
cases, has successfully avoided regulation by the Louisiana
12

Cf. Illinois Natural Gas Co. v. Central Illinois Public Service Co.,

supra at 504-505; State Tax Comm'n v. Interstate Natural Gas
Co., 284 U. S. 41, 44 (1931).
13 Missouri v. Kansas Natural Gas Co., 265 U. S. 298 (1924);
Public Utilities Comm'n v. Attleboro Steam & Electric Co., 273
U. S. 83 (1927); State Corp. Comm'n v. Wichita Gas Co., 290 U. S.
561 (1934).

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

Public Service Commission. 4 As was stated in the House
Committee report, the "basic purpose" of Congress in
passing the Natural Gas Act was "to occupy this field in
which the Supreme Court has held that the States may not
act."" In denying the Federal Power Commission jurisdiction to regulate the production or gathering of natural
gas, it was not the purpose of Congress to free companies
such as petitioner from effective public control. The
purpose of that restriction was, rather, to preserve in the
States powers of regulation in areas in which the States are
constitutionally competent to act. Thus the House Committee Report states: "The bill takes no authority from
State commissions, and is so drawn as to complement and
in no manner usurp State regulatory authority ...."16
Clearly, among the powers thus reserved to the States
is the power to regulate the physical production and
gathering of natural gas in the interests of conservation
or of any other consideration of legitimate local concern.'
It was the intention of Congress to give the States full
freedom in these matters. Thus, where sales, though
technically consummated in interstate commerce, are
made during the course of production and gathering and
are so closely connected with the local incidents of that
process as to render rate regulation by the Federal Power
Commission inconsistent or a substantial interference with
the exercise by the State of its regulatory functions, the
jurisdiction of the Federal Power Commission does not
attach. 8 But such conflict must be clearly shown. Ex14See
15H.

1

note 9, supra.

R. Rep. No. 709, 75th Cong., 1st Sess., 2.

Ibid.

17Colorado

Interstate Gas Co. v. Federal Power Comm'n, 324
U.S. 581, 602-603 (1945).
18The Federal Power Commission has not asserted jurisdiction
over all sales taking place in the natural gas fields even though in

INTERSTATE GAS CO. v. POWER COMM'N.
682

691

Opinion of the Court.

ceptions to the primary grant of jurisdiction in the section
are to be strictly construed. It is not sufficient to defeat
the Commission's jurisdiction over sales for resale in
interstate commerce to assert that in the exercise of the
power of rate regulation in such cases, local interests may
in some degree be affected."9
There is nothing in the record to indicate that the regulation in question is in any way inconsistent with the
exercise by Louisiana of the powers over production and
gathering of natural gas reserved to it by Congress in § 1
(b) of the Act. The State in a series of enactments has
made elaborate provision for the conservation of its
natural gas resources and has established various rules
and regulations relating to the production and gathering
process. 21 Most of those provisions, presumably, are apThe record is
plicable to petitioner's field operations.2
devoid of any suggestion that Louisiana has ever opposed
the jurisdiction of the Federal Power Commission in this
case or has ever urged that federal regulation of the sales
in question would interfere with the exercise by the State
of its regulatory functions.22 We do not suggest that the
interstate commerce for resale for ultimate public consumption. In
the Matter of Columbian Fuel Corp., 2 F. P. C. 200; In the Matter
of Billings Co., 2 F. P. C. 288. We express no opinion as to the
validity of the jurisdictional tests employed by the Commission in
these cases.
10 Cf. Colorado Interstate Gas Co. v. FederalPower Comm'n, supra
at 603; Federal Power Comm'n v. Hope Natural Gas Co., 320 U. S.
591,607-612 (1944).
20 La. Gen. Stat. §§ 4766-4826.2.
21 The record contains testimony by counsel for petitioner to the
effect that these provisions apply to petitioner and that petitioner's
operations have conformed with their requirements.
22 Counsel for the Louisiana Public Service Commission and for
two Louisiana municipalities participated in the proceedings before
the Federal Power Commission.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court,

331 U. S.

jurisdiction of the Commission in any case is to be determined by the resistance or lack of resistance on the part
of the State to federal regulation. But in evaluating the
Company's contention that the State's powers have been
invaded, we regard it a matter of some significance that
although the State has freely exercised its regulatory
powers over the production and gathering of natural gas,
there is no evidence of any conflict, present or threatened,
in the performing of those functions by the State with the
exercise of the jurisdiction of the Federal Power Commission in this case.
It is not contended that the Commission is precluded
from regulating the sales in question by reason of the exception from the Commission's jurisdiction relating to the
production of natural gas. Petitioner asserts, however,
that the sales to the three pipe-line companies are a part
of the gathering process and consequently not within the
Commission's power of regulation. This basic contention
has given rise to a great many subsidiary questions such
as whether the sales were made from petitioner's "gathering" lines or from petitioner's "transmission" lines and
whether the gathering process continued to the points of
sale or was, as the Commission found, completed at some
point prior to surrender of custody and passage of title.
We have found it unnecessary to resolve those issues.
The gas moved by petitioner to the points of sale consisted
of gas produced from petitioner's wells commingled with
that produced and gathered by other companies and introduced into petitioner's pipe-line system during the course
of the movement. By the time the sales are consummated,
nothing further in the gathering process remains to be
done. We have held that these sales are in interstate
commerce. It cannot be doubted that their regulation is
predominately a matter of national, as contrasted to local
concern. All the gas sold in these transactions is destined

INTERSTATE GAS CO. v. POWER COMM'N.
682

693

Opinion of the Court.

for consumption in States other than Louisiana. Unreasonable charges exacted at this stage of the interstate
movement become perpetuated in large part in fixed items
of costs which must be covered by rates charged subsequent purchasers of the gas, including the ultimate consumer. 3 It was to avoid such situations that the Natural
Gas Act was passed.
For reasons stated above, we have concluded that the
Federal Power Commission in this case has not exceeded
the jurisdiction conferred upon it by Congress in § 1 (b)
of the Natural Gas Act.
Affirmed.

23

A number of cases in this Court have held that the reasonable-

ness of cost items such as that incurred by a purchasing pipe-line
company in acquiring gas for transportation may be inquired into
during the course of subsequent regulation when buyer and seller
are affiliated corporations and there is evidence that the sales were
not made at arm's length. The Commission found affiliation to exist
between petitioner and only one of the three purchasing companies,
the Mississippi River Fuel Corporation. There was a finding of
"close contractual and operating arrangements" between petitioner
and another of the purchasing companies. Natural Gas Pipeline Co.
v. Slattery, 302 U. S. 300 (1937); Columbus Gas & Fuel Co. v. Public
Utilities Comm'n, 292 U. S. 398 (1934); Dayton Power & Light
Co. v. Public Utilities Comm'n, 292 U. S. 290 (1934); Western Distributing Co. v. Public Service Comm'n, 285 U. S. 119 (1932); Smith
v. Illinois Bell Telephone Co., 282 U. S. 133 (1930); United Fuel
Gas Co. v. Railroad Comm'n, 278 U. S. 300 (1929).

