GOSPEL ARMY v. LOS ANGELES.
532

Syllabus.

charged and conviction had on each. The plea in bar was
properly overruled.
This conclusion makes it unnecessary to decide whether
the disapproval of the court-martial judgment for errors
in trial and without ordering retrial creates a status for
the military judgment such that in no event would it be
available to bar this prosecution.
The judgment of the Circuit Court of Appeals is reversed and that of the District Court is affirmed.
would affirm the decision of
the Circuit Court of Appeals substantially for the reasons
set forth below by Judge Clark in reversing the conviction
of the Bayers, which, under a charge of conspiracy, carries
with it a reversal as to Radovich. 156 F. 2d 964,
967-68.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER

MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE is of the view that the judgment
of the Circuit Court of Appeals should be affirmed insofar
as it relates to the respondent Radovich, for the reasons
stated in that court's opinion. 156 F. 2d 964, 968-70.

GOSPEL ARMY v. LOS ANGELES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE SUPREME COURT OF CALIFORNIA.

No. 103.

Argued February 6, 7, 1947.-Decided June 9, 1947.

1. A judgment of the Supreme Court of California reversing a judgment of a trial court without direction, which under California
law has only the effect of remanding the case for a new trial and,
so far as appears, places the parties in the same position as if the
case had never been tried, is not a "final judgment" within the
meaning of § 237 of the Judicial Code, and this Court does not
have jurisdiction of an appeal therefrom. Pp. 546-548.
2. Richfield Oil Corp. v. State Board, 329 U. S. 69, distinguished upon
the special circumstances appearing in that case as rendering the
California Supreme Court's judgment "final" within the meaning
of § 237 of the Judicial Code. Pp. 547-548.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

3. Although the modern rule is that, in determining whether a state
court's remand is for a new trial, this Court will examine both the
judgment and the opinion as well as other circumstances that may
be pertinent, this does not mean that in the ordinary case this
Court will disregard the effect of the judgment under local law.

P. 548.
27 Cal. 2d 232, 163 P. 2d 704, appeal dismissed.

An appeal from a judgment of the Supreme Court of
California, 27 Cal. 2d 232, 163 P. 2d 704, reversing a judgment of a trial court without direction dismissed for want
of jurisdiction under § 237 of the Judicial Code. P. 548.
Robert H. Wallis argued the cause and filed a brief for
appellant.
John L. Bland argued the cause for appellees. With
him on the brief were Ray L. Chesebro and Bourke Jones.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE delivered the opinion of the

Court.
This is a companion case to Rescue Army v. Municipal
Court of the City of Los Angeles, 331 U. S. 549, decided
today. Because we dismiss the appeal in this cause for
jurisdictional reasons, the facts may be shortly stated.
The Gospel Army is an incorporated religious organization. The trial court found that it is "engaged exclusively
in the promulgation, by literature and word of mouth,
of its religious beliefs, by and through its auxiliaries, and
in the procuring of donations in the form of money and
articles of value in the prosecution and furtherance of
its religious activities." More particularly, its activities
consist of conducting a mission, distributing religious
books without charge, giving aid to the poor. It collects
salvage which it either sells in a second-hand goods store,'
'The money received from the sales is used to meet the cost of
operating the store, including compensation paid to the manager and

GOSPEL ARMY v. LOS ANGELES.
543

Opinion of the Court.

distributes directly to the poor, or sends to a salvage
mill.'
The Gospel Army instituted this suit to enjoin the enforcement of certain ordinances of the City of Los Angeles
on the ground that they violate its religious liberty under
the Constitutions of California and the United States.
After trial the Superior Court of Los Angeles County
broadly concluded:
"That a permanent injunction should issue herein
restraining and enjoining the Defendants and each
of them and any and all persons, associations, departments under whom said Defendants or any of them
may be employed or acting and any and all persons,
associations or departments who may be acting or
claiming by, through or under said Defendants, or
any of them from the further interference and threatened acts, which would in any way prevent the free
exercise of a religious liberty of said Plaintiff."
From this decision an appeal was taken to the District
Court of Appeal of the Second Appellate Division, Division Two, and the cause was then transferred to the Supreme Court of California. That court held, three judges
dissenting, that the Superior Court's action in granting
the injunction was erroneous. 27 Cal. 2d 232. Some, if
not all, of the ordinances in suit were sustained as constitutional. On appeal to this Court determination of
jurisdiction was postponed to the merits.
to those who solicit contributions. Whatever remains goes into the
corporate treasury.
2 Ninety per cent of the money received for the goods sent to the
salvage mill is paid to the drivers of trucks used by the Gospel Army
to collect the salvage. The other ten per cent goes into the treasury.
3 It is unnecessary to consider precisely what ordinances were involved in this case or were sustained by the California Supreme
Court. See Rescue Army v. Municipal Court, 331 U. S.549.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

The jurisdictional difficulties arise from the form of the
California Supreme Court's judgment. That court ended
its opinion with the statement, "The judgment is reversed." Its judgment was in the same form: "It is
Ordered, Adjudged, and Decreed by the Court that the
Judgment of the Superior Court in and for the County of
Los Angeles in the above entitled cause, be and the same
is hereby reversed." In California an unqualified reversal,
"that is to say, without direction to the trial court," is
effective to remand the case "for a new trial and places
the parties in the same position as if the case had never
been tried." Erlin v. National Union Fire Ins. Co., 7 Cal.
2d 547, 549; Stearns v. Aguirre, 7 Cal. 443, 448; Central
Say. Bank v. Lake, 201 Cal. 438, 443; Richfield Oil Corp.
v. State Board of Equalization, 329 U. S. 69, 72; 2 Cal.
Jur. § 590.
Under § 237 of the Judicial Code, 28 U. S. C., § 344,
only "final judgments" of state courts may be appealed
to this Court. And it frequently has been said that for
a judgment of an appellate court to be final and reviewable for this purpose it must end the litigation by fully
determining the rights of the parties, so that nothing
remains to be done by the trial court "except the ministerial act of entering the judgment which the appellate
court . . . directed." Department of Banking v. Pink,
317 U. S. 264, 267. Thus, where the effect of the state
court's direction is to grant a new trial, the judgment
will not be final.
Increasingly this Court has become less formal in the
matter of final judgments. It is no longer the rule that the
face of the judgment is determinative of whether it is
final.' Today "the test is not whether under local rules
4 For cases incorporating the old "face of the judgment" rule, see,
e. g., Bruce v. Tobin, 245 U. S. 18; Schlosser v. Hemphill, 198 U. S.
173; Hoseltine v. Central Bank, 183 U. S. 130. There was strong
dissent to the abandonment of the rule. See the separate opinion

GOSPEL ARMY v. LOS ANGELES.
543

Opinion of the Court.

of practice the judgment is denominated final . . . but
rather whether the record shows that the order of the
appellate court has in fact fully adjudicated rights and
that that adjudication is not subject to further review by
a state court . . . ." Department of Banking v. Pink,
317 U. S. at 268.
Thus, this term in Richfield Oil Corp. v. State Board of
Equalization, supra, despite the fact that the Supreme
Court of California had reversed a judgment without directions, we determined on the entire record and upon an
independent investigation of California law that the judgment was final for the purposes of § 237. In the first
place, the facts had been stipulated and, so far as appeared,
the stipulation would have been available and controlling
upon a second trial. In the second place, the suit was
one for a refund of a tax and under California law only
those grounds presented in the prior claim for refund
could be urged in the suit. The opinion stated: "Since
the facts have been stipulated and the Supreme Court
of California has passed on the issues which control the
litigation, we take it that there is nothing more to be
decided." 329 U. S. at 73-74.
In this case, however, the facts have not been stipulated, nor are there any special procedural restrictions.
Thus, under California law, the Gospel Army on the
second trial to which it is entitled may amend its complaint and present new facts. "Such a reversal remands
the case for a new trial and places the parties in the
same position as if the case had never been tried. ...
Of course, upon a retrial the decision of the appellate
court becomes the law of the case upon the facts as then
of McReynolds, J., in Clark v. Williard, 292 U. S. 112, 129, And
for general discussion, cf. Boskey, Finality of State Court Judgments under the Federal Judicial Code (1943) 43 Col. L. Rev. 1002,
1003-1008; Robertson and Kirkham, Jurisdiction of the Supreme
Court of the United States (1936) 54-57.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

presented. But that law must be applied by the trial
court to the evidence presented upon the second trial. 'It
is settled beyond controversy that a decision of this court
upon appeal, as to a [matter] of fact, does not become the
law of the case.'" Erlin v. National Union FireIns. Co.,
7 Cal. 2d at 549.
We cannot assume that the Supreme Court of California would hold the ordinances in question constitutional no matter what facts might be presented upon a
second trial. Indeed, experience demonstrates that particularly in constitutional cases issues turn upon factual
presentation.
Accordingly, the case does not fall within the specific
holding of the Richfield Oil case, for, although the modern
rule is that in determining whether the state court's remand is for a new trial this Court will examine both the
judgment and the opinion as well as other circumstances
which may be pertinent, Department of Banking v. Pink,
supra; Richfield Oil Corporationv. State Board of Equalization, supra, this does not mean that in the ordinary
case we will disregard the effect of the judgment under the
local law. In this case, for example, the effect of the
judgment under state practice is to remand the case for a
new trial. Nothing in the opinion of the court is to the
contrary. We cannot assume that the state court made
an error in its judgment, clerical or otherwise. If the
parties had thought so, they could have moved to have it
amended. Indeed, that course may still be open to
them.
The appeal is dismissed.

