RAILROAD TRAINMEN v. B. & 0. R. CO.

519

Syllabus.

BROTHERHOOD OF RAILROAD TRAINMEN v.
BALTIMORE & OHIO RAILROAD CO. ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE NORTHERN DISTRICT OF ILLINOIS, EASTERN DIVISION.

No. 970. Argued May 6,1947.-Decided June 9, 1947.
1. Under § 17 (11) of the Interstate Commerce Act, as amended by
the Transportation Act of 1940, a union duly designated as the
representative of employees of a railroad is given an absolute right,
within the meaning of Rule 24 (a) (1) of the Federal Rules of
Civil Procedure, to intervene in a suit brought under § 16 (12)
to enjoin the railroad and its employees from violating an order of
the Interstate Commerce Commission, where the injunction sought
would prevent the railroad from carrying out a contract with the
union and was directed in part against the employees. Pp 525526.
(a) The right of intervention granted to representatives of employees of carriers by § 17 (11) applies to a court proceeding under
§ 16 (12) and not merely to proceedings before the Commission.
Pp. 526-530.
(b) The right to intervene granted by § 17 (11) is absolute and
not merely permissive. Pp. 530-532.
(c) A suit is one "affecting such employees," within the meaning
of § 17 (11), if the employees would be prejudiced or bound by any
judgment that might be entered in the case. Pp. 530, 531.
2. An order of a district court denying a union the right under
§ 17 (11) to intervene in such a case is appealable to this Court,
which has jurisdiction to consider the appeal on its merits. Pp.
524-525, 531-532.
Reversed.

A district court denied a petition of a union of railroad
employees to intervene under § 17 (11) of the Interstate
Commerce Act and Rule 24 (a) of the Federal Rules of
Civil Procedure in a suit brought under § 16 (12) to enjoin
the railroad and its employees from violating an order of
the Interstate Commerce Commission. On appeal to this
Court, reversed, p..532.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

Burke Williamson argued the cause for appellant.
With him on the brief was Jack A. Williamson. E. Douglas Schwantes and Robert McCormick Adams were also
of counsel.
Ernest S. Ballard argued the cause and filed a brief for
appellees.
MR.

JUSTICE MURPHY

delivered the opinion of the

Court.
Our concern here is with the intervention rights of representatives of railroad employees in a suit brought
against the railroad under § 16 (12) of the Interstate
Commerce Act, 49 U. S. C. § 16 (12).
The origin of this suit is to be found in an order issued
by the Interstate Commerce Commission on May 16,1922.
Chicago Junction Case, 71 1. C. C. 631. See also Chicago Junction Case, 264 U. S. 258. The Commission
there approved the purchase by the New York Central
Railroad Co. (Central) of all the capital stock of the Chicago River & Indiana Railroad Co. (River Road); it also
authorized the leasing to River Road of all the properties
of the Chicago Junction Railway Co. (Junction) for 99
years and thereafter, at the lessee's option, in perpetuity.
Among the properties in question were trackage and
switching facilities at the Union Stock Yards, Chicago, Illinois, connecting with various trunk lines. Prior to the
Commission order, the practice had been for the trunk line
railroads to use their own power and crews to move their
empty and loaded livestock cars over these tracks to and
from the loading places in the Union Stock Yards. For
the privilege of so moving their cars, the railroads were
charged $1.00 per car, loaded or empty.
The Commission made various conditions to its approval of the proposed transactions. The third condition
provided: "The present traffic and operating relationships

RAILROAD TRAINMEN v. B. & 0. R. CO.
519

521

Opinion of the Court.

existing between the Junction and River Road and all carriers operating in Chicago shall be continued, in so far as
such matters are within the control of the Central." 71
I. C. C. at 639. This condition is still in effect, the Commission's decision and order having been found to be valid
and binding on all parties in a proceeding in the District
Court in 1929.1
The trunk line railroads have continued to use their
own power and crews in moving their livestock cars over
the trackage operated by River Road and have paid River
Road the amount of $1.00 per car. But on January 25,
1946, Central and River Road notified the railroads that
on and after February 1, 1946, the cars would be moved
over this trackage by means of the power and crews of
River Road and that the handling charge would be $12.96
per outbound loaded car. Soon after this new practice
went into effect, the trunk line railroads (appellees herein)
brought this suit for preliminary and permanent injunctions under § 16 (12) of the Interstate Commerce Act
against Central, River Road and Junction. They claimed
that the new practice was in violation of the third condition of the 1922 Commission order. They accordingly
sought to enjoin the defendants and "their respective officers, agents, representatives, servants, employees and successors," from disobeying the order, especially the third
condition thereof, and to force the defendants to permit
them to move their cars with their own power and crews.
The Commission was allowed to intervene as a party
plaintiff; its intervening complaint also prayed for an
1Baltimore & 0. R. Co. v. United States (unreported), United
States District Court for the Northern District of Illinois, Eastern Division, Equity No. 3427, January 15,1929. The court approved
the Commission order as amended in 150 I. C. C. 32. That amendment is not germane to this case.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

injunction against the alleged violation of the third condition by the defendants and their employees.!
A stipulation of facts was then filed. After describing
the change in handling the cars, it pointed out that this
change resulted from a settlement between the River Road
and the Brotherhood of Railroad Trainmen of a labor
dispute over the work involved in these livestock car movements. The Brotherhood was the bargaining agent under
the Railway Labor Act for the River Road trainmen. It
made a demand, based upon its contract with River Road,
that these trainmen be given the work of moving and
switching the livestock cars over the River Road trackage..
The Brotherhood threatened to call a strike unless this
demand was met before 10:30 p. m., January 23, 1946,
a threat that was backed by an almost unanimous strike
vote of the trainmen. Under this threat, River Road
made an agreement with the Brotherhood shortly before
the scheduled strike hour, as a result of which the River
Road trainmen were to be permitted to move and switch
the cars. The notice to the trunk line railroads of this
change in practice subsequently followed.
The District Court thereupon issued a preliminary injunction as requested. Central, River Road and Junction,
and "their respective officers, agents, representatives, employees and successors," were restrained from disobeying
the 1922 Commission order and from violating the third
condition of that order and were commanded to permit
the trunk line railroads to move their cars over the River
Road line with their own power and crews. The court
concluded, as a matter of law, that the facts relative to
2

The Commission based its complaint upon § 5 (8) of the Inter-

state Commerce Act, 49 U. S. C. § 5 (8), which authorizes the Commission to seek, and grants jurisdiction to the federal district courts
to issue, injunctive or mandatory relief to restrain violation of or
compel obedience to an order issued under § 5.

RAILROAD TRAINMEN v. B. & 0. R. CO.
519

523

Opinion of the Court.

the labor dispute between the Brotherhood and River
Road were "irrelevant and immaterial." 3
Three days after the preliminary injunction became
effective, the Brotherhood asked leave to file its special
appearance for the purpose of moving to vacate the injunction and to dismiss the proceedings for failure to join the
Brotherhood and its members as indispensable parties.
This motion was denied. River Road then filed its answer
to the original complaint, pointing out that the changed
arrangement resulted from the labor dispute with the
Brotherhood and contending that this new practice did
not violate the 1922 Commission order. The Brotherhood
thereafter filed its motion to intervene generally as a party
defendant, alleging that the primary purpose of the suit
was to nullify its agreement with River Road and to deprive the Brotherhood members of the work they were
performing under that agreement and that the Brotherhood members were therefore indispensable parties. The
contention was made that the Brotherhood had an unconditional right to intervene by virtue of § 17 (11) of the
Interstate Commerce Act' and Rule 24 (a) (2) of the
Federal Rules of Civil Procedure; and 28 U. S. C. § 45a
was later added in support of this contention. But the
motion to intervene was denied by order, without
opinion.
The District Court then allowed an appeal to this Court
from its order denying intervention. The appellee railroads moved to dismiss the appeal on the ground that
such an order was not final and hence was not appealable,
,the Brotherhood not being entitled to intervene as a
3 On appeal by Junction, the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the decree as to Junction, holding that Junction had no control
over and nothing to do with the acts complained of by the appellees.
Baltimore & 0. R. Co. v. Chicago Junction R. Co., 156 F. 2d 357.
4
54 Stat. 916,49 U.S.C. § 17 (11).
7555.52 0-48-37

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

matter of right. We postponed further consideration of
the question of our jurisdiction to review the order to the
hearing of the appeal upon the merits.
Ordinarily, in the absence of an abuse of discretion, no
appeal lies from an order denying leave to intervene where
intervention is a permissive matter within the discretion
of the court. United States v. California Canneries,
279 U. S. 553, 556.' The permissive nature of such
intervention necessarily implies that, if intervention
is denied, the applicant is not legally bound or prejudiced
by any judgment that might be entered in the case. He
is at liberty to assert and protect his interests in some
more appropriate proceeding. Having no adverse effect
upon the applicant, the order denying intervention accordingly falls below the level of appealability. But
where a statute or the practical necessities grant the applicant an absolute right to intervene, the order denying
intervention becomes appealable. Then it may fairly be
said that the applicant is adversely affected by the denial,
there being no other way in which he can better assert the
particular interest which warrants intervention in this
instance. And since he cannot appeal from any subsequent order or judgment in the proceeding unless he does
intervene, the order denying intervention has the degree
of definitiveness which supports an appeal therefrom.
See Pipe Line Co. v. United States, 312 U. S. 502, 508.
Our jurisdiction to consider an appeal from an order
denying intervention thus depends upon the nature of
the applicant's right to intervene. If the right is absolute,
the order is appealable and we may judge it on its merits.
But if the matter is one within the discretion of the trial
5

See also Ex parte Catting, 94 U. S. 14; Credits Commutation Co.
v. United States, 177 U. S. 311; Ex parte Leaf Tobacco Board of
Trade, 222 U. S. 578; In re Engelhard, 231 U. S. 646; City of New
York v. ConsolidatedGas Co., 253 U. S. 219; New York City v. New
York Telephone Co., 261 U. S. 312.

RAILROAD TRAINMEN v. B. & 0. R. CO.
519

525

Opinion of the Court.

court and if there is no abuse of discretion, the order is
not appealable and we lack power to review it. In other
words, our jurisdiction is identified by the necessary incidents of the right to intervene in each particular instance. We must therefore determine the question of our
jurisdiction in this case by examining the character of the
Brotherhood's right to intervene in the proceeding brought
under § 16 (12) of the Interstate Commerce Act.
We start with Rule 24 (a) and (b) of the Federal Rules
of Civil Procedure, applicable to a civil proceeding of this
type. Rule 24 (a) deals with intervention of right and
provides in pertinent part.: "Upon timely application
anyone shall be permitted to intervene in an action: (1)
when a statute of the United States confers an unconditional right to intervene; or (2) when the representation
of the applicant's interest by existing parties is or may be
inadequate and the applicant is or may be bound by a
judgment in the action; ...... " In contrast, Rule 24 (b)
is concerned with permissive intervention and reads as
follows: "Upon timely application anyone may be permitted to intervene in an action: (1) when a statute of
the United States confers a conditional right to intervene;
or (2) when an applicant's claim or defense and the main
action have a question of law or fact in common. In exercising its discretion the court shall consider whether the
intervention will unduly delay or prejudice the adjudication of the rights of the original parties."
The Brotherhood claims that as a consequence of either
of two federal statutes-§ 17 (11) of the Interstate Commerce Act or 28 U. S. C. § 45a-it has an absolute right to
intervene within the meaning of Rule 24 (a) (1). It also
alleges that it possesses an absolute right within the contemplation of Rule 24 (a) (2), the representation of its
interest by existing parties being inadequate and the possibility that it may be bound by a judgment in the action
being a real one. No claim to permissive intervention

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

under Rule 24 (b) is made; nor is there a contention that
the District Court abused any discretion it might have
had.
In our view, § 17 (11) of the Interstate Commerce Act
does give the Brotherhood an absolute right to intervene
in the instant proceeding within the meaning of Rule
24 (a) (1). As set forth in 54 Stat. 916,6 this portion
of the Act reads: "Representatives of employees of a carrier, duly designated as such, may intervene and be heard
in any proceeding arising under this Act affecting such
employees." The following considerations make obvious
the fact that the Brotherhood meets all the requirements
of this provision:
First. It is unquestioned that the Brotherhood is the
duly designated representative of the River Road
trainmen.
Second. The right of intervention granted to such a
representative by § 17 (11) applies to a court proceeding
under § 16 (12) of the Act, the plain language of § 17 (11)
extending its reach to "any proceeding arising under this
Act."
6

As it appears in the United States Code, 49 U. S. C. § 17 (11),
this paragraph reads: "Representatives of employees of a carrier,
duly designated as such, may intervene and be heard in any proceeding
arising under this chapter and chapters 8 and 12 of this title affecting
such employees."
The words "this chapter" refer to Part I of the Interstate Commerce Act, which embodies the original statute known by that name
prior to its division into parts. Chapter 8 relates to Part II of the
Interstate Commerce Act, originally known as the Motor Carrier Act
of 1935. Section 305 (h) of Part II is a cross-reference to § 17 of
Part I: "All the provisions of section 17 of this title shall apply to all
proceedings under this chapter." Chapter 12 is the equivalent of
Part III of the Interstate Commerce Act, which deals with water
carriers. Section 916 (a) is also a cross-refeience to § 17 of Part I:
"The provisions of section 12 and section 17 of chapter 1 of this title
and sections 46-48 of this title shall apply with full force and effect
in the administration and enforcement of this chapter."

RAILROAD TRAINMEN v. B. & 0. R. CO.
519

527

Opinion of the Court.

On this point, however, the appellee railroads contend
that § 17 (11) must be confined to proceedings before the
Interstate Commerce Commission, to the exclusion of
court proceedings. In support of this contention, they
point to the fact that § 17 as a whole is primarily concerned with Commission procedure and organization.
That fact is emphasized by the heading of § 17 as it appears in the Statutes at Large, 54 Stat. 913, and the
United States Code, 49 U. S. C. § 17, a heading that reads:
"Commission procedure; delegation of duties; rehearings."
The inference is then made that paragraph (11), with
which we are concerned, must be limited by that heading
and by the general context of § 17 as a whole. The result
of the contention is that the phrase "any proceeding
arising under this Act," as found in paragraph (11), is
rewritten by construction to refer only to "any proceeding
before the Commission arising under this section."
We cannot sanction such a construction of these words.
It is true, of course, that § 17 is concerned primarily with
the organization of the Commission and its subdivisions
and with the administrative disposition of matters coming
within that agency's jurisdiction. At least ten of the
twelve paragraphs of § 17 deal with those matters. And
before § 17 was cast into its present form in 1940, all five
of its paragraphs related exclusively to those matters.
Congress rewrote the section when it enacted the Transportation Act of 1940, 54 Stat. 898, continuing and modifying previous provisions and consolidating and including
matters which had formerly been scattered throughout
the Act.7 At the same time, however, it was expressly
recognized that certain paragraphs were -being added
which were entirely new, paragraphs which went beyond
purely administrative matters. Thus the pertinent com7 H. Rep. No. 1217, 76th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 13; H. Rep. No. 2832,
76th Cong., 3d Sess., p. 72.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

.331 U. S.

mittee reports stated S that "A new paragraph (9) is included providing that orders of a division, an individual
Commissioner, or a board shall be subject to judicial review as in the case of full Commission orders, after an
application for rehearing has been made and acted upon."
And as to paragraph (11), it was said I that "A new paragraph is added at the end of section 17 providing that
representatives of employees of a carrier may intervene
and be heard in any proceedings arising under part I affecting such employees." By such language in their
reports, the framers of § 17 recognized the obvious fact
that certain provisions of that section deal with something
more than might be indicated by the heading.
That the heading of § 17 fails to refer to all the matters
which the framers of that section wrote into the text is not
an unusual fact. That heading is but a short-hand
reference to the general subject matter involved. While
accurately referring to the subjects of Commission procedure and organization, it neglects to reveal that § 17
also deals with judicial review of administrative orders
and with intervention by employee representatives.
But headings and titles are not meant to take the place
of the detailed provisions of the text. Nor are they necessarily designed to be a reference guide or a synopsis.
Where the text is complicated and prolific, headings and
titles can do no more than indicate the provisions in a
most general manner; to attempt to refer to each specific
provision would often be ungainly as well as useless. As
a result, matters in the text which deviate from those
falling within the general pattern are frequently unreflected in the headings and titles. Factors of this type
have led to the wise rule that the title of a statute and
8 H.

R. No. 2016, 76th Cong., 3d Sess., p. 67; H. Rep. No. 2832,
76th Cong., 3d Sess., p. 72.
9 H. Rep. No. 1217, 76th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 15.

RAILROAD TRAINMEN v. B. & 0. R. CO.
519

529

Opinion of the Court.

the heading of a section cannot limit the plain meaning
of the text. United States v. Fisher, 2 Cranch 358, 386;
Cornell v. Coyne, 192 U. S. 418, 430; StrathearnS. S. Co. v.
Dillon, 252 U. S. 348, 354. For interpretative purposes,
they are of use only when they shed light on some ambiguous word or phrase. They are but tools available for the
resolution of a doubt. But they cannot undo or limit that
which the text makes plain.
Here the meaning of § 17 (11) is unmistakable on its
face. There is a simple, unambiguous reference to "any
proceeding arising under this Act" or, as the House committee paraphrased it," to "any proceedings arising under
part I." There is not a word which would warrant limiting this reference so as to allow intervention only in proceedings arising under. § 17 or in proceedings before the
Commission. The proceedings mentioned are those which
arise under this Act, an Act under which both judicial and
administrative proceedings may arise." The instant case
is a ready illustration of a judicial proceeding arising under
this Act; a suit of this nature is authorized solely by
§ 16 (12) of the Act.12 Hence it is a proceeding to which
the right of intervention may attach by virtue of
§ 17 (11).
Nor do we perceive any reason of statutory policy why
the framers of § 17 (11) should have wished to confine the
right of intervention by employee representatives to pro10 H. Rep. No. 1217, 76th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 15.
" Section 17 (11), by referring to proceedings arising under "this
Act," also affects judicial and administrative proceedings arising under
Parts II and III of the Act. See note 6, supra.
2Section 16 (12) is labeled "Proceedings to enforce orders other
than for payment of money." 49 U. S. C. § 16 (12). It provides
that if any carrier fails to obey a Commission order other than for
the payment of money, the Commission, any injured party or the
United States may apply to a federal district court for the enforcement
of the order.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

ceedings before the Commission. Occasions may arise, as
in this case, where the employee representatives have no
interest in intervening in the original administrative proceeding, but where they have a very definite interest in
intervening in a subsequent judicial proceeding arising
under the Act. When the framers have used language
which covers both types of proceedings, we would be unjustified in formulating some policy which they did not
see fit to express to limit that language in any way.
Third. This is a proceeding arising under the Act which
affects the employees represented by the Brotherhood.
Nothing could make this plainer than the fact that direct
injunctive relief was sought and obtained against these
employees. The appellee railroads sued to enjoin River
Road and its employees from disobeying the third condition of the 1922 Commission order. It was alleged that
this condition required River Road and its employees to
permit the railroads to use their own power and crews in
moving cars over the River Road line. Yet that was
precisely the subject matter of the conflict between River
Road and the Brotherhood, resulting in the insertion of
important provisions in the contract between them. If
the Commission order did require the River Road employees to forego operating the livestock cars, their contract rights with River Road were affected in a very real
sense. Acts done by the employees in performance of
this contract obviously prompted this suit; and any such
acts performed after the issuance of an injunction might
give rise to contempt action. It is thus impossible to say
that this proceeding is not one "affecting such employees"
within the meaning of § 17 (11).
Since all the conditions of § 17 (11) have been satisfied
in this case, the only question that remains is whether the
Brotherhood is thereby accorded a permissive or an absolute right to intervene. The language of § 17 (11) is in

RAILROAD TRAINMEN v. B. & 0. R. CO. 531
519

Opinion of the Court.

terms of "may intervene and be heard," which might be
construed as giving only a discretionary right. But our
view, as we have indicated, is that once the requirements
of § 17 (11) have been met, the employees' representative
acquires an absolute right of intervention.
Some statutes speak of intervention "as of right."
Thus where suit is brought by or against the United States
to enforce or set aside a Commission order, the Commission or the parties in interest to the proceeding before
the Commission "may appear as parties thereto . . . as

of right." 28 U. S. C. § 45a. In such a case, the right to
intervene is absolute and unconditional. Sprunt & Son v.
United States, 281 U. S. 249, 255.
No less absolute or unconditional is the right to intervene under § 17 (11), which permits intervention where
the employees are affected by the proceeding. To be
sufficiently affected within the meaning of this provision
requires that the employees be prejudiced or bound by
any judgment that might be entered in the case, as is the
situation relative to the River Road employees. Once
it is clear that an effect of that degree is present, however,
there is no room for the operation of a court's discretion.
Whether the employees' interests should be asserted or
defended in a proceeding where those interests are at stake
is a question to be decided by the employees' representative, not by the court. The statutory term "may intervene" thus means "may intervene if the employees'
representative so chooses" rather than "may intervene
in the discretion of the court." And if the representative
does choose to intervene, it may ao so as a matter of right
within the meaning of Rule,24 (a) (1) of the Federal
Rules of Civil Procedure. Such is this case.
We thus conclude that § 17 (11),gives the Brotherhood
an absolute right to intervene in this proceeding, making
it unnecessary to discuss whether, and to what extent, the

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Syllabus.

331 U. S.

Brotherhood would have had such a right apart from
§ 17 (11). It follows that we have jurisdiction to consider the appeal on its merits. And in the exercise of that
jurisdiction, we reverse the judgment of the District Court
denying leave to the Brotherhood to intervene.
Reversed.
UNITED STATES v. BAYER

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND CIRCUIT.

No. 606.

Argued April 2, 1947.-Decided June 9,1947.

1. When a judge's charge to a jury is accurate and correct, the extent
of its amplification rests in his discretion; and the fact that the
charge is unusually brief does not make it a reversible error where
there is no evidence that the jury misunderstood it. Pp. 536-537.
2. In the circumstances of this case, it was not reversible error to
refuse to admit in evidence an unsworn unverified long distance
call slip from the telephone company records four hours after the
case had been submitted to the jury, even if its exclusion would
have been prejudicial error had the offer been timely and properly
verified. 537-539.
3. The fact that an army officer had made a confession under circumstances precluding its use in evidence against him did not preclude
the use in evidence against him of a second confession made voluntarily six months later after fair warning that it might be used
against him and when he was under no restraint except that he
could not leave his base limits without permission-even though
the second confession was but an elaboration of the first. Pp. 539541.
4. Conviction by court-martial for violating the 95th and 96th Articles
of War, by conduct unbecoming an officer and gentleman and
conduct prejudicial to good order and military discipline, does
not bar, on the ground of double jeopardy, another trial in a civil
court for a conspiracy to defraud the Government by depriving it
of the faithful services of an army officer in violation of 18 U. S. C.
§ 88; since the two offenses are not the same even though they
arise out of the same facts. Pp. 541-543.
156 F. 2d 964, reversed.

