CHAMPION PLUG CO. v. SANDERS.
Syllabus.

CHAMPION SPARK PLUG CO. v. SANDERS ET AL.,
DOING
BUSINESS
AS PERFECT RECONDITION
SPARK PLUG CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
SECOND

No. 680.

CIRCUIT.

Argued April 2, 3,1947.-Decided April 28, 1947.

1. Respondents engaged in the business of repairing used trademarked spark plugs and reselling them without removing the
original trade marks. In a suit by the manufacturer, the trial
court found that respondents had infringed the trade mark but
that there had been no fraud or palming off. It denied an accounting but enjoined further infringement. Held: The equities
of this case are satisfied by a decree requiring that the word "repaired" or "used" be plainly and durably stamped on each plug
and that the containers and printed matter used in connection
with the sales clearly show that the plugs are used and reconditioned by respondents, giving their names and address-even
though the decree does not require that the trade marks be removed. Pp. 126-132.
2. Under the Trade Mark Act of 1905, a finding that a trade mark
has been infringed does not necessarily require that an accounting
be ordered where an injunction will satisfy the equities of the case.
P. 131.
3. In the circumstances of this case, a finding that respondents had
also engaged in unfair competition does not require more stringent
controls or that an accounting be ordered. Pp. 130-132.
156 F. 2d 488, affirmed.

The District Court found that respondents had infringed petitioner's trade mark, enjoined further infringement, and denied an accounting. 56 F. Supp. 782, 61 F.
Supp. 247. The Circuit Court of Appeals modified the
decree in certain details. 156 F. 2d 488. This Court
granted certiorari. 329 U. S. 709. Affirmed, p. 132.
Samuel E. Darby, Jr. argued the cause for petitioner.
With him on the brief were Wilbur Owen and Carl F.

Schaffer.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

John Wilson Hood argued the cause and filed a brief
for respondents.

Opinion of the Court by MR.
nounced by MR.

JUSTICE DOUGLAS,

an-

JUSTICE BLACK.

Petitioner is a manufacturer of spark plugs which it
sells under the trade mark "Champion." Respondents
collect the used plugs, repair and recondition them, and
resell them. Respondents retain the word "Champion"
on the repaired or reconditioned plugs. The outside box
or carton in which the plugs are packed has stamped on
it the word "Champion," together with the letter and
figure denoting the particular style or type. They also
have printed on them "Perfect Process Spark Plugs Guaranteed Dependable" and "Perfect Process Renewed Spark
Plugs." Each carton contains smaller boxes in which the
plugs are individually packed. These inside boxes also
carry legends indicating that the plug has been renewed.'
But respondent company's business name or address is not
printed on the cartons. It supplies customers with petitioner's charts containing recommendations for the use
of Champion plugs. On each individual plug is stamped
in small letters, blue on black, the word "Renewed," which
at times is almost illegible.
Petitioner brought this suit in the District Court, charging infringement of its trade mark and unfair competition.
See Judicial Code § 24 (1), (7), 28 U. S. C. § 41 (1), (7).
The District Court found that respondents had infringed
the trade mark. It enjoined them from offering or selling
' "The process used in renewing this plug has been developed
through 10 years continuous experience. This Spark Plug has been
tested for firing under compression before packing."
"This Spark Plug is guaranteed to be a selected used Spark Plug,
thoroughly renewed and in perfect mechanical condition and is guaranteed to give satisfactory service for 10,000 miles."

CHAMPION PLUG CO. v. SANDERS.
125

Opinion of the Court.

any of petitioner's plugs which had been repaired or reconditioned unless (a) the trade mark and type and style
marks were removed, (b) the plugs were repainted with
a durable grey, brown, orange, or green paint, (c) the word
"REPAIRED" was stamped into the plug in letters of such
size and depth as to retain enough white paint to display
distinctly each letter of the word, (d) the cartons in which
the plugs were packed carried a legend indicating that they
contained used spark plugs originally made by petitioner
and repaired and made fit for use up to 10,000 miles by
respondent company.! The District Court denied an
accounting. See 56 F. Supp. 782, 61 F. Supp. 247.
The Circuit Court of Appeals held that respondents not
only had infringed petitioner's trade mark but also were
guilty of unfair competition. It likewise denied an accounting but modified the decree in the following respects:
(a) it eliminated the provision requiring the trade mark
and type and style marks to be removed from the repaired
or reconditioned plugs; (b) it substituted for the requirement that the word "REPAIRED" be stamped into the
plug, etc., a provision that the word "REPAIRED" or
"USED" be stamped and baked on the plug by an electrical hot press in a contrasting color so as to be clearly and
distinctly visible, the plug having been completely covered
by permanent aluminum paint or other paint or lacquer;
and (c) it eliminated the provision specifying the precise
legend to be printed on the cartons and substituted there2 The prescribed legend read:
"Used spark plug(s) originally made by Champion Spark Plug Company repaired and made fit for use up to 10,000 miles by Perfect
Recondition Spark Plug Co., 1133 Bedford Avenue, Brooklyn, N. Y."
The decree also provided:
"the name and address of the defendants to be larger and more
prominent than the legend itself, and the name of plaintiff may be in
slightly larger type than the rest of the body of the legend."

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

for a more general one.3 156 F. 2d 488. The case is here
on a petition for certiorari which we granted because of
the apparent conflict between the decision below and
Champion Spark Plug Co. v. Reich, 121 F. 2d 769, decided by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the Eighth
Circuit.
There is no challenge here to the findings as to the misleading character of the merchandising methods employed
by respondents, nor to the conclusion that they have not
only infringed petitioner's trade mark but have also engaged in unfair competition.' The controversy here
relates to the adequacy of the relief granted, particularly
the refusal of the Circuit Court of Appeals to require respondents to remove the word "Champion" from the
repaired or reconditioned plugs which they resell.
We put to one side the case of a manufacturer or distributor who markets new or used spark plugs of one make
under the trade mark of another. See Bourjois & Co. v.
Katzel, 260 U. S. 689; Old DearbornCo. v. Seagram Corp.,
299 U. S. 183, 194. Equity then steps in to prohibit defendant's use of the mark which symbolizes plaintiff's good
will and "stakes the reputation of the plaintiff upon the
character of the goods." Bourjois & Co. v. Katzel, supra,
p. 692.
We are dealing here with second-hand goods. The
spark plugs, though used, are nevertheless Champion
plugs and not those of another make.' There is evidence
3"The decree shall permit the defendants to state on cartons and
containers, selling and advertising material, business records, correspondence and other papers, when published, the original make and
type numbers provided it is made clear that any plug referred to
therein is used and reconditioned by the defendants, and that such
material contains the name and address of defendants."
4See Federal Trade Commission v. Winsted Hosiery Co., 258 U. S.
483, 493-494; Warner & Co. v. Lilly & Co., 265 U. S. 526, 530.
5Cf. Federal Trade Commission v. Klein, 5 F. T. C. 327.

CHAMPION PLUG CO. v. SANDERS.
125

Opinion of the Court.

to support what one would suspect, that a used spark plug
which has been repaired or reconditioned does not measure
up to the specifications of a new one. But the same would
be true of a second-hand Ford or Chevrolet car. And we
would not suppose that one could-be enjoined from selling
a car whose valves had been reground and whose piston
rings had been replaced unless he removed the name Ford
or Chevrolet. Prestonettes, Inc. v. Coty, 264 U. S. 359,
was a case where toilet powders had as one of their ingredients a powder covered by a trade mark and where
perfumes which were trade marked were rebottled and
sold in smaller bottles. The Court sustained a decree
denying an injunction where the prescribed labels told the
truth. Mr. Justice Holmes stated, "A trade mark only
gives the right to prohibit the use of it so far as to protect
the owner's good will against the sale of another's product
as his. . . . When the mark is used in a way that does
not deceive the public we see no such sanctity in the word
as to prevent its being used to tell the truth. It is not
taboo." P. 368.
Cases may be imagined where the reconditioning or
repair would be so extensive or so basic that it would be a
misnomer to call the article by its original name, even
though the words "used" or "repaired" were added. Cf.
Ingersoll v. Doyle, 247 F. 620. But no such practice is involved here. The repair or reconditioning of the plugs
does not give them a new design. It is no more than a
restoration, so far as possible, of their original condition.
The type marks attached by the manufacturer are determined by the use to which the plug is to be put. But the
thread size and size of the cylinder hole into which the plug
is fitted are not affected by the reconditioning. The heat
range also has relevance to the type marks. And there is
evidence that the reconditioned plugs are inferior so far as
heat range and other qualities are concerned. But inferiority is expected in most second-hand articles. Indeed,

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

they generally cost the customer less. That is the case
here. Inferiority is immaterial so long as the article is
clearly and distinctly sold as repaired or reconditioned
rather than as new.' The result is, of course, that the second-hand dealer gets some advantage from the trade mark.
But under the rule of Prestonettes,Inc. v. Coty, supra,that
is wholly permissible so long as the manufacturer is not
identified with the inferior qualities of the product resulting from wear and tear or the reconditioning by the dealer.
Full disclosure gives the manufacturer all the protection
to which he is entitled.
The decree as shaped by the Circuit Court of Appeals
is fashioned to serve the requirements of full disclosure.
We cannot say that of the alternatives available the ones
it chose are inadequate for that purpose. We are mindful
of the fact that this case, unlike Prestonettes,Inc. v. Coty,
supra, involves unfair competition as well as trade mark
infringement; and that where unfair competition is established, any doubts as to the adequacy of the relief are generally resolved against the transgressor. Warner & Co. v.
Lilly & Co., 265 U. S. 526, 532. But there was here no
showing of fraud or palming off. Their absence, of course,
does not undermine the finding of unfair competition.
Federal Trade Commission v. Winsted Hosiery Co., 258
U. S. 483, 493-494; G. H. Mumm Champagne v. Eastern
Wine Corp., 142 F. 2d 499, 501. But the character of the
conduct giving rise to the unfair competition is relevant to
the remedy which should be afforded. See Siegel Co. v.
Federal Trade Commission, 327 U. S. 608. We cannot say
that the conduct of respondents in this case, or the nature
6 See Federal Trade Commission v. Typewriter Emporium, 1F. T. C.
105; Federal Trade Commission v. Check Writer Manufacturers, 4

F. T. C. 87; In thJ Matter of FederalAuto Products Co., 20 F. T. C.
334.

CHAMPION PLUG CO. v. SANDERS.
125

Opinion of the Court.

of the article involved and the characteristics of the merchandising methods used to sell it, called for more stringent
controls than the Circuit Court of Appeals provided.
Mishawaka Mfg. Co. v. Kresge Co., 316 U. S. 203, states
the rule governing an accounting of profits where a trade
mark has been infringed and where there is a basis for
finding damage to the plaintiff and profit to the infringer.
But it does not stand for the proposition that an accounting will be ordered merely because there has been an infringement. Under the Trade Mark Act of 1905, as under
its predecessors, an accounting has been denied where an
injunction will satisfy the equities of the case. Saxlehner
v. Siegel-Cooper Co., 179 U. S. 42; Rowley Co. v. Rowley,
193 F. 390, 393; Middleby-Marshall Oven Co. v. Williams
Oven Mfg. Co., 12 F. 2d 919, 921; Golden West Brewing
Co. v. Milonas & Sons, 104 F. 2d 880, 882; Hemmeter Cigar
Co. v. Congress Cigar Co., 118 F. 2d 64, 71-72; Durable
Toy & Novelty Corp. v. J. Chein & Co., 133 F. 2d 853, 854-'
855. The same is true in case of unfair competition.
Straus v. Notaseme Co., 240 U. S. 179, 181-183. Here, as
we have noted, there has been no showing of fraud or palming off. For several years respondents apparently endeavored to comply with a cease and desist order of the
Federal Trade Commission requiring them to place on the
plugs and on the cartons a label revealing that the plugs
were used or second-hand. Moreover, as stated by the
Circuit Court of Appeals, the likelihood of damage to
petitioner or profit to respondents due to any misrepre7 Section 19 of that Act, 33 Stat. 724, 729, 15 U. S. C. § 99, provides in
part, "... upon a decree being rendered in any such case for wrongful
use of a trade-mark the complainant shall be entitled to recover, in
addition to the profits to be accounted for by the defendant, the
damages the complainant has sustained thereby, and the court shall

assess the same or cause the same to be assessed under its direction."
755552 0-48-13

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Syllabus.

331 U. S.

sentation seems slight. In view of these various circumstances it seems to us that the injunction will satisfy the
equities of the case.
Affirmed.

AYRSHIRE COLLIERIES CORP. ET AL. v. UNITED
STATES ET AL.
APPEAL FROM THE DISTRICT COURT OF THE UNITED STATES
FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF INDIANA.

No. 467.

Argued April 7, 8, 1947.-Decided April 28, 1947.

1. Under the provision of the Urgent Deficiencies Act of October 22,
1913, 28 U. S. C. § 47, requiring that an application to enjoin
or set aside any order of the Interstate Commerce Commission be
"heard and determined" by three judges, a judgment based upon
a determination by only two judges is void-even though all three
judges were present at the hearing and one of them was prevented
by illness from participating in the determination of the case.
Pp. 135-139.
2. The fact that a prayer for an interlocutory injunction was not
pressed and that the decision was only on an application for a
permanent injunction makes no difference, since the statutory requirement that three judges hear and determine an application
applies to suits for permanent as well as interlocutory injunctions.
Judicial Code § 266, distinguished. Pp. 139-144.
Judgment vacated and appeal dismissed.

Two judges of a three-judge court, during the absence
of the third, denied a permanent injunction against enforcement of an order of the Interstate Commerce Com-

mission. On appeal to this Court, the judgment is
vacated and the appeal is dismissed. P. 144.
Earl B. Wilkinson argued the cause for Ayrshire Col-

lieries Corporation et al., appellants.

With him on the

brief were Arthur R. Hall and J. Alfred Moran.

