UNITED STATES v. SMITH.
Syllabus.

UNITED

STATES v. SMITH, U. S. DISTRICT
JUDGE, ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 498.

Argued March 11, 1947.-Decided June 2, 1947.

1. After a judgment of conviction has been affirmed by the Circuit
Court of Appeals (upon an appeal in which the district court's
denial of a motion for a new trial was one of the errors assigned)
and the defendant has begun service of the sentence, a federal district court is without power under Rule 33 of the Rules of Criminal
Procedure to order a new trial sua sponte. Pp. 471-477.
2. Where, in such circumstances, a district court has ordered a new
trial, the Government is entitled to writs of mandamus and prohibition from the Circuit Court of Appeals requiring that the order
be vacated. Pp. 470,477.
156 F. 2d 642, reversed.

The Circuit Court of Appeals denied a petition by the
United States for writs of mandamus and prohibition
directed to the District Court and the judges thereof. 156
F. 2d 642. This Court granted certiorari. 329 U. S. 703.
Reversed, p. 477.
Assistant to the Attorney General McGregor argued the
cause for the United States. With him on the brief were
Acting Solicitor General Washington, Sewall Key and
Melva M. Graney.
Robert T. McCracken argued the cause for Memolo,
respondent. With him on the brief were Stanley F. Coar

and C. Russell Phillips.
No appearance for Smith, United States District Judge,
respondent.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

MR. JUSTICE JACKSON delivered the opinion of the
Court.
The United States in this case sought writs of mandamus and prohibition from the Court of Appeals directed
to the judges of the District Court for the Middle District
of Pennsylvania to require that an order by which a
new trial was granted to one John Memolo be vacated.
Memolo was convicted of tax evasion after jury trial
before Judge William F. Smith. Three days later Memolo
filed a motion for new trial and was given leave to file
reasons in its support. He filed fifty-four reasons, such
as the trial court's denial of continuance, of motion to
quash the indictment, of motion for a bill of particulars,
and of motion for a directed verdict. He complained also
of the court's action in discharging some of the petit
jurors, in admission and exclusion of evidence, in instructing the jury, and in conduct toward defendant and his
counsel said to have been prejudicial. On the same day,
Judge Smith denied the motion and sentenced Memolo
to three years imprisonment and fines.
Memolo appealed, assigned as errors all of the motion
grounds and, in addition, the denial of the motion for
new trial. The Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit
affirmed with a per curiam opinion declaring that it could
perceive no substantial error in the proceedings. United
States v. Memolo, 152 F. 2d 759. Petition for certiorari
was denied by this Court, Memolo v. United States, 327
U. S. 800. Therefore, the Court of Appeals issued its
mandate of affirmance and, in the conventional form, commanded that "such execution and further proceeding be
had in said cause, as according to right and justice, and
the laws of the United States, ought to be had, the said
appeal notwithstanding." Memolo was then taken into
custody and, on April 8, 1946, imprisoned in a federal
penitentiary.

UNITED STATES v. SMITH.
469

Opinion of the Court.

The following day the Clerk of the District Court received from Judge Smith an order dated April 8th "that
judgment heretofore entered be vacated and that the verdict heretofore returned be set aside, and that a new trial
be granted the defendant." It was accompanied by a
"memorandum" reciting the history of the case and that
"This Court, while the appeal was pending, reconsidered
the grounds urged by the defendant in support of his
motion for a new trial. It is our opinion upon this reconsideration that in the interest of justice a new trial should
be granted the defendant." It assigned no more particular ground for the order. Memolo was thereupon released
from the penitentiary on bail.
On the Government's petition to the Court of Appeals
for writs directing that the order be vacated, Memolo
was allowed to intervene. Judge Smith also answered
asserting that his order "was in accordance with the mandate of this Court and was authorized by the Rules of
Criminal Procedure of 1946, effective March 21, 1946,
particularly Rule 33 thereof." He referred to his memorandum but did not further elucidate his reasons for granting a new trial. On consideration, the court below sitting
en banc denied the petition for writs of mandamus and
prohibition. 156 F. 2d 642. Two of the five judges
dissented.
The mandate which the appellate court returned to
the District Court was in the conventional and long-used
form adapted to all appealed causes and contained no
special directions peculiar to this case. It was neutral
on the issues here raised and nothing in its terms either
expressly authorized or prohibited the order for new trial.
The power of the District Court to make such an order
turns entirely on the Rules of Criminal Procedure cited
and relied upon by Judge Smith.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

Rule 33 provides:
"NEw TRIAL. The court may grant a new trial to

a defendant if required in the interest of justice. If
trial was by the court without a jury the court may
vacate the judgment if entered, take additional testimony and direct the entry of a new judgment. A
motion for a new trial based on the ground of newly
discovered evidence may be made only before or
within two years after final judgment, but if an appeal is pending the court may grant the motion only
on remand of the case. A motion for a new trial
based on any other grounds shall be made within 5
days after verdict or finding of guilty or within such
further time as the court may fix during the 5-day
period."
The first sentence of this rule is declaratory of the power
to grant a new trial "in the interest of justice" instead
of for reasons catalogued as they might have been.' The
generality of the reasons assigned by Judge Smith for the
order in question is all that is required. But this sentence
says nothing of the time within which the court must act
or of the effect of an intervening appeal and affirmance
1 Section

269 of the Judicial Code, 28 U. S. C. § 391, provides less

generally that "All United States courts shall have power to grant
new trials, in cases where there has been a trial by jury, for reasons
for which new trials have usually been granted in the courts of law."
That section, like Rule 33, does not expressly put a limit of time on
the power granted, yet it was never suggested that it gave district
courts power to grant a new trial at any time. It may be said that
the term rule applied, but the first sentence of § 269 might as readily
have been interpreted as an exception to that rule as the first sentence
of the present rule may be construed to be restricted by no period
of time.
It may be worthy of note that Rule 33 provides that a court may
grant a new trial to a defendant, and does not say that the court may
order a new trial.

UNITED STATES v. SMITH.
469

Opinion of the Court.

on the power. Such time provisions as there are relate
to filing of motions by the defendant.
The last sentence of the rule, which puts a five-day limit
on motions for new trial on any ground other than newlydiscovered evidence, was suggested by the law as it stood
before adoption of the new Rules. Generally speaking,
the power of a court over its judgments at common law
expired with the term of court. United States v. Mayer,
235 U. S. 55, 67-69. There was, however, a three-day
limitation on the right to move for a new trial. Rule II,
Criminal Appeals Rules of May 7, 1934, 292 U. S. 662,
18 U. S. C. § 688. Rule 33, in its last sentence, extended
that period to five days, and otherwise extended the time
in which to move for new trial because of newly discovered
evidence. The limitation by expiration of the term was
repealed by Rule 45 (c).
It is now said that because the literal language of the
Rule places the five-day limit only on the making of
the motion, it does not limit the power of the court later
to grant the motion, and the power survives affirmance
of the judgment by appellate courts. Briefly, Judge Smith
thought and intervenor argues that the rule prevents a
defendant from asking the court to grant a new trial after
the times specified, but that it permits the judge to order
retrial without request and at any time. The result, in
view of annulment of the term limitation,' would be that
the power of the trial court to grant new trials on its own
2 Before the new Rules, there was no question that the power of the
trial judge to grant a new trial was limited by the duration of the
term. United States v. Mayer, supra. If the Rules had extended
that power indefinitely, it would seem that considerable comment on
this fundamental change would have been called forth. Yet hardly
anyone suggested that Rule 33 means what respondent contends it
does. But cf. Stewart, Comments on Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure, 8 John Marshall L. Q. 296, 303. The Rules, in abolishing
the term rule, did not substitute indefiniteness. On the contrary,
precise times, independent of the term, were prescribed. The policy

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

motion lingers on indefinitely. There are several reasons
why this construction of the Rules is not acceptable.
It is not the function of appellate courts to review tentative decisions of trial courts. The Circuit Court of
Appeals had no jurisdiction to review the denial of the
motion for a new trial unless the denial was "final."
Judicial Code § 128 (a), 28 U. S. C. § 225 (a). Question
of finality would be raised if the trial court, while formally
denying the motion for new trial on the record, reserves
the right to change its mind after the opinion of an appellate court has been elicited. In this case the Court of
Appeals reviewed fifty-four specifications of error and
found none to warrant reversal. All of this was but vain
if the trial court was to act as its own reviewing body or
if it had not reached a conclusive determination of the
orders being appealed. Such a practice would authorize
the appellate process to be exercised in an advisory capacity while the trial court, regardless of appellate decision,
could set aside all that was the basis of appeal.
Moreover, it would be a strange rule which deprived
a judge of power to do what was asked when request was
made by the person most concerned, and yet allowed him
to act without petition. If a condition of the power is that
request for its exercise be not made, serious constitutional
issues would be raised. For it is such request which obviates any later objection the defendant might make on
the ground of double jeopardy. Murphy v. Massachusetts, 177 U. S. 155, 160; cf. Ex parte Lange, 18 Wall. 163.
This intervenor, for example, has been tried, convicted
and imprisoned and has served some, although little time
on the sentence of the court. After remand of his case,
he made no further motion for a new trial and could make
none. It is not necessary for us now to decide whether
of the Rules was not to extend power indefinitely but to confine it
within constant time periods. See Notes to Rules of Criminal Procedure, Rule 45.

UNITED STATES v. SMITH.
Opinion of the Court.

469

his retrial on the court's own motion would amount to
double jeopardy.' That a serious constitutional issue
would be presented by such a procedure is enough to suggest that we avoid a construction that will raise such an
issue.
For yet another reason, we would be reluctant to hold
that the court has a continuing power on his own initiative
to grant what the defendant has not the right to go into
open court and ask. To approve the practice followed
in this case would almost certainly subject trial judges to
private appeals or application by counsel or friends of one
convicted. We think that expiration of the time within
which relief can openly be asked of the judge, terminates
the time within which it can properly be granted on the
court's own initiative. If the judge needs time for reflection as to the propriety of a new trial, he is at liberty to
take it before denying a timely made motion therefor.
Support for the interpretation urged by respondent rises
from fear of miscarriage of justice. New trials, however,
may be granted for error occurring at the trial or for reasons which were not part of the court's knowledge at the
time of judgment. For the latter, the Rules make adequate provision. Newly-discovered evidence may be
made ground for motion for new trial within two years
after judgment. Rule 33. For the former, habeas corpus
provides a remedy for jurisdictional and constitutional
errors at the trial, without limit of time. Johnson v.
Zerbst, 304 U. S. 458; Walker v. Johnston, 312 U. S. 275;
Waley v. Johnston, 316 U. S. 101; Adams v. United States
ex rel. McCann, 317 U. S. 269. Possibility of unredressed
injustice therefore remains only in prejudicial happenings
during trial.' The trial judge is given power by the Rules
3 Nor need we decide whether his intervention in this case in support
of the trial judge's power amounts to a consent to a second trial.
4 Although this Court has reserved decision on whether the federal
district courts are empowered to entertain proceedings in the nature
755552 0-48-34

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

to entertain motions for new trial within five days after
verdict and may extend that time for so long as he thinks
necessary for proper consideration of the course of the
trial. But extension of that time indefinitely is no insurance of justice. On the contrary, as time passes, the peculiar ability which the trial judge has to pass on the fairness of the trial is dissipated as the incidents and nuances
of the trial leave his mind to give way to immediate business. It is in the interest of justice that a decision on
the propriety of a trial be reached as soon after it has
ended as is possible, and that decision be not deferred
until the trial's story has taken on the uncertainty and
dimness of things long past.
A majority of the Court of Appeals thought it a shocking suggestion that on mature reflection a District Judge
may not correct an injustice because his first reaction was
different. We doubt if many cases will occur in which
very shocking injustices will survive after the trial court
denies a motion based on detailed recital of grounds for
new trial and a Court of Appeals affirms. This possibility
seems too remote to induce us to hold that a trial court's
denial of a new trial, affirmed on appeal, has no finality
and that a trial judge may, even after service of a sentence
has begun, set the whole proceedings aside and start overif indeed a new start would not also be forbidden.5
of coram nobis "to bring before the court that pronounced the judgment errors in matters of fact which had not been put in issue or
passed upon and were material to the validity and regularity of the
legal proceeding itself . . .," United States v. Mayer, 235 U. S. 55, 68,
it is difficult to conceive of a situation in a federal criminal case today
where that remedy would be necessary or appropriate. Of course, the
federal courts have power to investigate whether a judgment was obtained by fraud and make whatever modification is necessary, at any
time. Universal Oil Co. v. Root Refining Co., 328 U. S. 575.
When the draftsmen of the Rules of Civil Procedure, adopted long
before the Criminal Rules, wanted to give the trial judge power to
grant a new trial on his own initiative, they did so in express words.
Rule 59 (d), Rules of Civil Procedure.

MYERS v. READING CO.
469

Syllabus.

We hold that the Government was entitled to the relief
sought. The judgment is accordingly reversed with direction that writs issue to effect vacation of the order for new
trial.
Judgment reversed.
MYERS v. READING COMPANY.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 367.

Argued February 6, 1947.-Decided June 2,1947.

1. In this action under the Federal Employers' Liability Act, by an
employee against a carrier to recover damages for personal injuries
alleged to have been caused by the defendant's use, in violation
of the Safety Appliance Acts, of a freight car not equipped with
efficient hand brakes, the evidence at the trial, with the inferences
that the jury justifiably could draw from it, was sufficient to
support the verdict for the plaintiff; and it was error to enter
judgment for the defendant notwithstanding the verdict. Pp. 478486.
2. Although a carrier is not subject under the Federal Employers'
Liability Act to an absolute liability to its employees for injuries,
it is subject to liability for injuries resulting from a violation of
its absolute duty to comply with the Safety Appliance Acts. P. 485.
155 F. 2d 523, reversed.

Notwithstanding a verdict for the plaintiff in a suit
under the Federal Employers' Liability Act and the Safety
Appliance Acts, the District Court entered judgment for
the defendant. 63 F. Supp. 817. The Circuit Court of
Appeals affirmed. 155 F. 2d 523. This Court granted
certiorari. 329 U. S. 699. Reversed, p. 486.
By special leave of Court, B. Nathaniel Richter argued
the cause for petitioner, pro hac vice. With him on the
brief was John H. Hoffman.
Henry R. Heebner argued the cause for respondent.
With him on the brief was Wm. Clarke Mason.

