WALLING v. HALLIBURTON CO.
1

Syllabus.

We would reverse the Court of Appeals and sustain the
decision of the Tax Court.
MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER and MR. JUSTICE DOUGLAS
join in this opinion.

WALLING, WAGE AND HOUR ADMINISTRATOR,
v. HALLIBURTON OIL WELL CEMENTING CO.
CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 74.

Argued February 7, 10, 1947.-Decided April 14, 1947.

1. After enactment of the Fair Labor Standards Act, an employer
whose employees worked irregular hours varying from less than
30 to more than 100 per week and formerly received fixed monthly
salaries, entered into contracts with them individually which in
each case specified a basic rate of pay per hour for the first 40
hours in any workweek and not less than one and one-half times
that rate per hour for overtime, with a guaranty that the employee
should receive each week for regular time and overtime not less
than a specified amount. Under this plan, the employee worked
more than 84 hours before he became entitled to any pay in addition
to the weekly guaranty; but, when he worked enough hours to
earn more than the guaranty, the surplus time was paid for at
150% of the basic contract rate. His compensation equalled or
exceeded that which he was receiving when the Act went into effect
and exceeded the minima which the Act prescribes. Held: This
contract did not violate § 7 (a) of the Act. Pp. 18-26.
2. Walling v. Belo Corp., 316 U. S. 624, followed. Walling v. Helmerich & Payne, Inc., 323 U. S. 37; Overnight Motor Co. v.
Missel, 316 U. S. 572; Walling v. Youngerman-Reynolds Hardwood
Co., 325 U. S. 419; Walling v. HarnischfegerCorp., 325 U. S. 427,
distinguished. Pp. 20-26.
152 F. 2d 622, affirmed.

The District Court denied relief in a suit by the Wage
and Hour Administrator to enjoin alleged violations of
§ 7 (a) of the Fair Labor Standards Act. 57 F. Supp.

18

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

408. The Circuit Court of Appeals affirmed. 152 F. 2d
622. This Court granted certiorari. 328 U. S. 828.
Affirmed, p. 26.
Morton Lif tin argued the cause for petitioner. With
him on the brief were Solicitor General McGrath, Arnold
Raum, William S. Tyson and Joseph M. Stone.
Ben F. Saye and Paul Sandmeyer argued the cause for
respondent. With them on the brief was Gurney E.
Newlin. Harry C. Robb entered an appearance for
respondent.
MR. CHIEF JUSTICE VINSON delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This case brings here a question as to the application
of the overtime provisions of the Fair Labor Standards
Act' to the payment of compensation pursuant to employment contracts similar to those in Walling v. Belo Corp.,
316 U. S. 624.
Respondent is engaged in the business of cementing,
testing and otherwise servicing oil wells, for which it uses
its own peculiar equipment. To operate this equipment
respondent retains a highly stabilized group of skilled
and specially trained "field employees." The volume of
respondent's business, however, is highly inconstant.

152 Stat. 1060, 29 U. S. C. § 201 et seq. The relevant overtime
provisions, contained in § 7 (a), 29 U. S. C. § 207 (a), are as follows:
"No employer shall, except as otherwise provided in this section,
employ any of his employees who is engaged in commerce or in the
production of goods for commerce"(3) for a workweek longer than forty hours after the expiration
of the second year from such date, unless such employee receives
compensation for his employment in excess of the hours above specified
at a rate not less than one and one-half times the regular rate at which
he is employed."

WALLING v. HALLIBURTON CO.
17

Opinion of the Court.

Consequently, these employees are required to work a
variable number of hours from day to day and from week
to week.
Prior to passage of the Act in 1938, these employees
were paid fixed monthly salaries. Thereafter, they were
put on a "weekly-guarantee" plan similar to that which
was to be involved in the Belo case. This plan was abandoned March 1, 1942, under pressure from the Administrator of the Act, and reinstated July 1, 1942, after the
Belo decision had seemed to end all questions as to its legality. 2 Since its reinstatement the plan has been continuously in effect, and embodied in formal written
contracts between respondent and the employees to whom
it has applied.
The part of these contracts now in issue is respondent's
agreement to pay these employees "a regular basic rate of
[a specified number of] cents per hour for the first (40)
hours of any workweek, and not less than one and one-half
times such basic hourly rate of pay for all time over
(40) hours in any workweek, with a guarantee that Employee shall receive for regular time and for such overtime
as the necessities of the business may demand a sum not
less than $ [a specified number] for each workweek."'
The regular basic rate so specified was in each case at or
above the minimum prescribed by the Act or by the Administrator's order, but that rate was always so related to
the guaranteed flat sum that the employee became entitled to more than the guarantee only in weeks in which
he worked more than 84 hours.4 The compensation
This Court decided the Belo case June 8, 1942.
Compare the almost identical wording of the Belo contract, 316
U. S. at 628.
4For instance, the lowest specified basic rate in May, 1944, when
this case was tried, was 40 cents an hour. Compensation at this
rate for 40 hours and at one and one-half this rate for 44 additional
hours equals $42.40. Actually, the correlative weekly guarantee was
the slightly greater sum of $42.69.
2
3

755552 0-48-6

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

actually paid was regularly consistent with the contractual

obligation as stated.
Petitioner sued respondent under § 17 of the Act to enjoin against future adherence to this plan, on the ground
that it failed to include overtime compensation as required by § 7 (a). He contended that the actual "regular
rate" of compensation payable under these contracts was
not the specified basic rate, but rather the quotient of the
amount of the correlative guarantee divided by the number of hours worked in that week. This was said to follow
from the fact that the employees usually worked less
than 84 hours a week and nevertheless received the full
guaranteed sum.
The District Court found, however, that the contracts
were "bona fide," and that they were "intended to and did
really fix the regular rate" at which the men were employed. It denied relief 5 and the Circuit Court of Appeals
affirmed,' both Courts relying on our decision in the Belo
case.
Petitioner admits a close similarity of facts and of his
basic contentions in this and the Belo case. He argues,
however, that the Belo decision should not be followed:
(a) because there are factual differences between the two
cases adequate to distinguish them, (b) because Belo has
been implicitly overruled by later decisions of this Court,
and (c) because the Belo decision is erroneous.
As to the first of these arguments, we note that the contracts in Belo and in this case are substantially identical,
except for the amount of the hourly rate and of the fixed
guarantee. Under the Belo contract, however, overtime
would be paid in addition to the guaranteed wage after
54 hours had been worked in any given week; ' under
1157 F. Supp. 408.
6 152 F. 2d 622.

' See the statement and explanation of the Belo contract, 316 U. S.
at 627-629.

WALLING v. HALLIBURTON CO.
Opinion of the Court.

17

this contract, only after 84 hours. It is said that this
84 hours bears no relation to the usual workweek.
Actually, the employees in this case have no usual workweek. In many weeks they work more than 100 hours;
in others less than 30. In about 20 per cent of the workweeks, they work in excess of 84 hours.' Whenever they
do, they are paid in accordance with the contract on the
basis of the specified hourly rate with appropriate overtime.
No more can be said as to the relation between 541/2
hours and the usual workweek in Belo. It appears from
the record in that case that the employees there involved
also worked fluctuating workweeks, and that the average
workweek was substantially less than 541/2 hours. Indeed, it appears that the Belo employees exceeded 541/
hours in considerably less than 20 per cent of the weeks
worked.' When they did so, they too were paid at the
contractual rate with appropriate overtime."° There is
nothing here to suggest different treatment of the two
cases.
Petitioner also points to alleged differences in the fact
that respondent in this case paid the full weekly guaran1The

record shows that of 4,284 man-weeks worked by respondent's

California field employees between July 5, 1942, and March 11, 1944,
about 3% were less than 20 hours in length, about 13% were less

than 40 hours, about 67% were from 40 to 84 hours, about 20% were
over 84 hours, and about 7% over 104 hours, some running as high

as 140 and 150 hours.

This "work-week" was the basis for deter-

mining compensation, but it did not represent the number of hours

actually worked by the employee.

In the course of typical cementing

and testing operations, many hours counted as working time were
spent waiting while the drilling crew was running the casing, the
cement was setting, the perforation work was being done by another
company, or the testing tool was standing in the well hole.
9 See Transcript of Record, Supreme Court of the United States,
Walling v. A. H. Belo Corp., No. 622, 0. T. 1941, pp. 194-337.

10 316 U. S. at 631-632.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

tee even when its employees worked less than 40 hours in
the week, and the fact that respondent carried fixed rather
than fluctuating overtime rates on its payroll records.
As to the first of these points, there is actually no difference between this case and Belo. The employees in both
cases had a contractual right to the full guarantee however short their workweek, and those in Belo were paid it
as well as those here.1 The second fact we think without
significance. The function of the payroll records was
merely to show the amounts of compensation payable.
These records did not affect respondent's contract obligations, nor suggest a practice at variance with the
contract.
We think that whatever differences exist between this
case and Belo are without substance, and that it must
either be followed or overruled.
This brings us to petitioner's second argument, in which
our attention is directed to three cases decided since Belo,
wherein we held that certain plans of overtime compensation failed to meet the § 7 (a) requirement. It is urged
that the provisions for overtime compensation in these
cases were legally no less adequate than, and that the
principles on which they were decided are necessarily inconsistent with, the overtime provision and the principles
of the Belo case.
In Belo itself, the specified basic hourly rate was held to
be the actual regular rate because, as to weeks in which
employees worked more than 541/2 hours, the specified
rate determined the amount of compensation actually payable; as to weeks in which they worked less, the Court
inferred from the collateral specification of a basic rate
and provision for a legal but variable rate of overtime pay
that the guaranteed flat sum then due also contemplated

1 Fleming v. A.

H. Belo Corp., 121 F. 2d 207, at 210, note 6.

WALLING v. HALLIBURTON CO.
17

Opinion of the Court.

both basic pay and overtime." On the other hand, we
find that in the three later cases relied on by petitioner,
the agreed method by which wages were computed made a
like inference impossible.
In Walling v. Helmerich & Payne, Inc., 323 U. S. 37,
we considered a "split-day plan," under which a prescribed
"regular" hourly rate was payable for the first four hours
of each eight-hour shift, and a prescribed "overtime"
rate, of one and one-half the "regular" rate, was payable
for the other four hours." In those weeks in which an
employee worked statutory overtime, he was paid at the
contract "overtime" rate for many straight-time hours
and at the contract "regular" rate for many overtime
hours. Obviously, these prescribed rates were not actual
regular and overtime rates, although so named in the plan.
Consequently, as in Overnight Motor Co. v. Missel, 316
U. S. 572, we held that the regular rate was to be determined by dividing the wages actually paid by the hours
actually worked. In so deciding, we expressly noted that
Belo was not controlling because the wage plans involved
in the two cases posed entirely different questions as to
the application of § 7 (a).14
12 316 U. S. at 631-632.
In Overnight Motor Co. v. Missel, 316
U. S. 572, decided the same day as Belo, the employees also worked
an irregular number of hours each week, but were simply paid a
fixed weekly wage. The Court noted the absence of any agreement
between the contracting parties for the payment of a specified rate
and overtime, and of any contractual limitation on the number of
hours the employee could be required to work for the fixed wage. It
also noted that these factors were not absent from the Belo plan. See
316 U. S. at 581.
Is Theoretically, when an employee had so accumulated 40 "regular"
hours in one week, all subsequent hours were compensable as "overtime." Actually, no employee ever did so. See 323 U. S. at 41.
14 "Nothing in this Court's decision in Walling v. Belo Corp., supra,
sanctions the use of the split-day plan. The controversy there cen-

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

In Walling v. Youngerman-Reynolds Hardwood Co.,
325 U. S. 419, and Walling v. Harnischfeger Corp., 325
U. S. 427, the contracts established two alternative meth-

ods for computing each employee's wages. One was to
multiply his straight-time hours of work by a specified
basic hourly rate, and his overtime hours by one and onehalf that rate, and add the products.

The other was to

multiply the number of jobs done by a specified piecework rate. The employee was entitled to be paid the
greater of these two sums. 5 The method of computing
the amount due at piecework rates, which were constant

for work done on both straight-time and overtime hours,
of course negated any possible inference that the payment
of such amount contemplated legal overtime compensation. The specified hourly rates were so low, however,
relative to piecework rates, that the latter were always,

or almost always, determinative of the wage actually to
be paid. These cases held merely that such specified
hourly rates were not the "regular" rates of wage payments to which they were not related, and which were
tered about the question whether the regular rate should be computed
from the guaranteed weekly wage or whether it should be identical
with the hourly rate set forth in the employment contract. There
was no question, as here, pertaining to the applicability of the regular
rate to the first 40 hours actually and regularly worked, with the
overtime rate applying to all hours worked in excess thereof." Walling v. Helmerich & Payne, Inc., 323 U. S. 37, at 42.
11 In the Harnischfeger case, the scheme was actually a little different from that in the Youngerman-Reynolds case, which is stated
in the text. In Harnischfeger, the employee was credited with (a)
the product of the total number of hours worked multiplied by the
basic rate, plus (b) the amount by which piecework earnings during
all hours worked exceeded the product in (a), plus (c) the product
of the number of overtime hours worked multiplied by one-half the
basic hourly rate. The difference is that in Harnischfegersome provision was made for overtime; but in both cases the provision for
overtime was inadequate, and for the same reason. See 325 U. S.
at 431-432.

WALLING v. HALLIBURTON CO.
17

Opinion of the Court.

computed according to a necessarily inconsistent method.
Again, Belo was expressly distinguished."
Indeed, it would seem that the Court's opinions in these
cases, far from undermining Belo, showed an affirmative
concern that language appropriate to the situations then
before us should not be extended to the different situation involved in this and the Belo case.
Finally, petitioner maintains that Belo was wrongly
decided and that we should "define the area of [its] continued vitality, if any." His argument on this score is
substantially the same as that advanced on behalf of the
Administrator and considered by the Court in the Belo
case itself.
The reasons stated in the Belo opinion for rejecting
this argument are equally valid today, and need not be
repeated. Moreover, our holding in Belo has been a rule
of decision in this Court for five years, and recognized as
such on each appropriate occasion. Knowing of the Belo
decision, the Congress has permitted § 7 (a) to stand unmodified and the courts have applied it as so construed.
Employers and employees (including those involved in
this case) have regulated their affairs on the faith of it.
16 "This Court's decision in Walling v. Belo Corp., 316 U. S. 624,
lends no support to respondent's position. The particular wage
agreements there involved were upheld because it was felt that in
fixing a rate of 67 cents an hour the contracts did in fact set the
actual regular rate at which the workers were employed. The case is
no authority, however, for the proposition that the regular rate may
be fixed by contract at a point completely unrelated to the payments
actually and normally received each week by the employees." Walling
v. Youngerman-Reynolds Hardwood Co., 325 U. S. 419, at 426.
See also the concurring opinion of MR. JUSTICE FRANKFURTER in
Walling v. Harnischfeger Corp., 325 U. S. 427, 433. The Court did
not expressly refer to Belo in its opinion in the Harnischfeger case;
but, as it did in Youngerman-Reynolds, which involves substantially
the same question and was decided the same day, we consider that
further reference to Belo would have been redundant.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
MURPHY,

J., dissenting.

331 U. S.

Even if we doubted the wisdom of the Belo decision as
an original proposition, we should not be inclined to depart
from it at this time.
Affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE.

I concur in the Court's judgment upon the authority of
Walling v. Belo Corp., 316 U. S. 624. I agree with MR.
JUSTICE MURPHY that the Belo decision is inconsistent
with later decisions here, in the view it takes concerning
the legal effects of the Fair Labor Standards Act. But
those cases are distinguishable upon their facts; the Belo
case has been relied upon by the parties to this cause and
no doubt also by others, in making their arrangements;
and the facts here seem to me indistinguishable from those
covered by the Belo decision. Accordingly, although I
would restrict the effects of that decision narrowly to the
factual situation presented, I join in the judgment now
rendered.
MR. JUSTICE MURPHY,

with whom MR.

JUSTICE BLACK

concurs, dissenting.
It is conceded that the weekly guaranty was sufficient
to pay for 40 hours at the so-called "regular basic rate"
and for 44 additional hours at one and one-half times
such "basic hourly rate." The contract overtime rate
became effective only as to those hours of work in excess
of 84. In other words, the "regular basic rate" referred
to in the contracts had no meaning or effect whatsoever
unless the employee worked more than 84 hours in a week.
Whether he worked 20 hours, 40 hours or 60 hours in
a week, he was paid the guaranteed amount.
To square such a wage scheme with the plain requirements of § 7 (a) of the Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938
is impossible. Time and again this Court has made it
clear that the regular rate of compensation upon which

WALLING v. HALLIBURTON CO.
17

MURPHY,

J., dissenting.

overtime payments are to be based is the hourly rate
actually paid to the employee for the normal, non-overtime workweek for which he is employed. Overnight
Motor Co. v. Missel, 316 U. S. 572, 580; Walling v. Helmerich & Payne, 323 U. S. 37, 40; United States v. Rosenwasser, 323 U. S. 360, 363; Walling v. YoungermanReynolds Hardwood Co., 325 U. S. 419, 424; Walling v.
Harnischfeger Corp., 325 U. S. 427, 430. "The regular
rate by its very nature must reflect all payments which
the parties have agreed shall be received regularly during
the workweek, exclusive of overtime payments. It is not
an arbitrary label chosen by the parties; it is an actual
fact. Once the parties have decided upon the amount
of wages and the mode of payment the determination
of the regular rate becomes a matter of mathematical
computation, the result of which is unaffected by any
designation of a contrary 'regular rate' in the wage contracts." Walling v. Youngerman-Reynolds Hardwood
Co., supra,424-425.
Our attention in this case must therefore be focused
upon the actual payments, exclusive of those paid for
overtime, which the parties have agreed shall be paid
during each workweek. And when we do that, we discover that the parties have agreed that the employees
shall receive the guaranteed amount, not the so-called
"regular basic rate." That guaranteed amount is thus
the regular rate for purposes of § 7 (a) of the Act, the
so-called "regular basic rate" being an obviously artificial
one.
It is said, however, that this scheme is sanctioned by
Walling v. Belo Corp., 316 U. S. 624. That is true, but
it does not justify continuance of the erroneous Belo doctrine. The Belo case has been distinguished in subsequent opinions of this Court, but the distinctions were
essentially ones of fact. On the basis of legal and statutory theory, the Belo case is irreconcilable with the later

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Syllabus.

331 U. S.

cases. The Belo case, which carries its own refutation in
its dissenting opinion, should therefore be overruled.
Otherwise we shall be perpetuating and augmenting the
unrealities and confusion which have marked the application of the doctrine of that case. See Feldman, "Algebra
and the Supreme Court," 40 Ill. L. Rev. 489; "Legality of
Wage Readjustment Plans under the Overtime Provision
of the Fair Labor Standards Act," 13 U. of Chi. L. Rev.
486; 44 Mich. L. Rev. 866.

UNITED STATES NATIONAL BANK ET
CHASE NATIONAL BANK ET AL.

AL. V.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
THIRD CIRCUIT.

No. 371.

Argued February 7,1947.-Decided April 14, 1947.

The principal asset of a bankrupt estate was an undivided interest
in coal lands, operated in part by lessees and producing substantial
royalties. More than four months prior to the adjudication in
bankruptcy, two creditors had obtained judgments against the
bankrupt, which constituted first and second liens on the interest
in these lands. Subsequently, a plan suggested by the attorney
for the trustee and certain general creditors was adopted, whereby
in consideration of the secured creditors forbearing to press their
claims, the estate was divided into two funds: a real estate fund,
and a general fund including royalties, etc. The first fund was
to go to the first judgment creditor, the second fund was to be
divided pro rata among all creditors. After the plan had been
in operation for more than twelve years, a general creditor whose
attorney had proposed the plan petitioned the bankruptcy court
for a decree to the effect that the two judgment creditors had
waived their liens by sharing in distributions from the general
fund. Held:
1. Upon the particular facts of this case, the liens are declared
valid and in existence, notwithstanding the failure to follow the
provisions of § 57 (h) of the Bankruptcy Act, and notwithstanding the distribution of dividends contrary to § 65 (a). Pp. 35-39.

