OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Syllabus.

331 U. S.

there will be any conflict with the federal law. Any
claim of supersedure can be preserved in the state proceedings. And the question of supersedure can be determined in light of the impact of a specific order of the
state agency on the Federal Act or the regulations of the
Secretary thereunder. Only if that procedure is followed
can there be preserved intact the whole state domain
which in actuality functions harmoniously with the federal system. For even action which seems pregnant with
possibilities of conflict may, as consummated, be wholly
barren of it.
Reversed.

UNITED STATES v. FULLARD-LEO

ET AL.

CERTIORARI TO THE CIRCUIT COURT OF APPEALS FOR THE
NINTH CIRCUIT.

No. 429. Argued February 12, 1947.-Decided May 12, 1947.
1. On the facts of this case, including both an unbroken chain of
private conveyances and a claim of right to exclusive possession
since 1862, when possession of Palmyra Island was taken by respondents' predecessors in interest in the name of the King of
Hawaii, and on the presumption of a lost grant, the Government's
claim of title to Palmyra Island as successor to the Kingdom and
Republic of Hawaii is denied and fee simple title to the island is
quieted in respondents-notwithstanding their failure to show
actual occupancy of this isolated island in the Pacific Ocean except
for intermittent periods aggregating less than two and one-half
years out of 77 years since the origin of their cliim of title. Pp.
269-281.
2. A resolution adopted by the King and Cabinet Council of Hawaii
in 1862 authorizing respondents' predecessors in interest to take
possession of the island in the name of the King of Hawaii and
the formalities of annexation are construed as requiring only that
sovereignty over the island be acquired by the King and not as
requiring that title to the island should vest in the King or as being

UNITED STATES v. FULLARD-LEO.
256

257

Syllabus.

otherwise inconsistent with a presumption that a grant of title to
the island was issued to respondents' predecessors in interest. Pp.
260-265.
3. Under the laws in effect in Hawaii at the time of the annexation
of Palmyra Island in 1862, both the King and the Minister of the
Interior with the authority of the King in the Cabinet Council
had power to convey the lands to private citizens. Hawaiian Civil
Code, 1859, §§ 39-48; Hawaiian Act of January 3, 1865, Rev. Laws,
Hawaii, 1905, p. 1226, § 3. Pp. 266-269.
4. This Court takes judicial notice of the laws of Hawaii prior to its
annexation as a part of our domestic laws. P. 269.
5. The rules under which the Hawaiian people lived under the monarchy or republic define, for the sovereign of today, the rights
acquired during those periods. P. 269.
6. Hawaiian law, as it existed before the annexation of the Territory,
is controlling on rights then acquired in land. P. 269.
7. In matters of local law, the federal courts defer to the decisions
of the territorial courts of Hawaii; but, where a claimed title
to public lands of the United States is involved, that is a federal
question and the federal courts will construe the law for themselves and are not bound to follow Hawaiian decisions. Pp. 269-270.
8. The presumption of a lost grant to land recognizes that lapse of
time may cure the neglect or failure to secure the proper muniments
of title, even though the lost grant may not have been in fact
executed. P. 270.
9. The rule applies to claims to land held adversely to the sovereign.
Pp. 270-272.
10. The law of the Territory of Hawaii recognizes and has applied
the doctrine of the lost grant in controversies between the Territory
and a claimant to government land. Pp. 272-273.
11. Where, as in this case, there was power in the King or the
officials of the Kingdom of Hawaii to convey a title to Palmyra
Island during the years immediately following its annexation to
the Kingdom of Hawaii and prior to many of the private conveyances in respondents' chain of title, the doctrine of a lost grant
may be applied, in suitable circumstances, and its existence presumed in favor of respondents' predecessors in title. P. 273.
12. In order for the doctrine of a lost grant to be applicable, the
possession must be under a claim of right, actual, open and exclusive. P. 273.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Counsel for Parties.

331 U. S.

13. A claim for government lands stands upon no different principle
in theory, so long as authority exists in government officials to
execute the patent, grant or conveyance; but, as a practical matter,
it requires a higher degree of proof. Pp. 273-274.
14. The sufficiency of actual and open possession of property to
justify the presumption of a lost grant is to be judged in the light
of the character and location of the property. P. 279.
15. While uninterrupted and long-continuing possession of a kind
indicating the ownership of the fee is necessary to create the
presumption of a lost grant, the rule does not require a constant,
actual occupancy where the character of the property does not
lend itself to such use. P. 281.
156 F. 2d 756, affirmed.

After Congress had authorized construction of naval
aviation facilities on Palmyra Island by the Act of April
25, 1939, 53 Stat. 590, the Government sued to quiet title
to the island. The District Court dismissed the suit. 66
F. Supp. 774. The Circuit Court of Appeals reversed,
holding that the Hawaiian Kingdom acquired title in 1862
and that such title was ceded to the United States in
1898. 133 F. 2d 743. This Court denied certiorari. 319
U. S. 748. On remand, the District Court denied the
Government's claim and quieted title to the island in
respondents. 66 F. Supp. 782. The Circuit Court of
Appeals affirmed. 156 F. 2d 756. This Court granted
certiorari. 329 U. S. 697. Affirmed, p. 281.
Frederick Bernays Wiener argued the cause for the
United States. With him on the brief were Acting Solicitor General Washington, Assistant Attorney General
Bazelon, Roger P. Marquis and Alvin 0. West.
A. G. M. Robertson argued the cause and filed a brief
for respondents.
C. Nils Tavares, Attorney General of Hawaii, filed a
brief for the Territory of Hawaii, as amicus curiae, in support of respondents.

UNITED STATES v. FULLARD-LEO.
256

MR.

Opinion of the Court.
JUSTICE REED

delivered the opinion of the Court.

This writ of certiorari was allowed to review a decree of
the United States Circuit Court of Appeals for the Ninth
Circuit affirming a decree of the District Court of the
United States for the District of Hawaii, 329 U. S. 697.
The United States began the present proceedings by a
petition, filed in the District Court, to quiet title in it to a
group of islets in the Pacific, long known as Palmyra
Island. Palmyra was annexed to the Kingdom of Hawaii
on February 26, 1862, and the United States claims that
it remained a part of the governmental lands of Hawaii
and passed to the United States by the Joint Resolution of Congress of July 7, 1898, which annexed Hawaii
to the United States and accepted for the United States all
public, Government or Crown lands and all other public
property then belonging to the Republic of Hawaii.1 The
lands and sovereignty of the Kingdom of Hawaii previously had passed directly to the Republic of Hawaii,
through the intervening Provisional Government.
Palmyra Island is around one thousand miles south of
the main Hawaiian group. It is the first considerable body
of land in that direction and lies between the Hawaiian
Islands and Samoa. The Palmyra group is a coral covered atoll of about fifty islets, some with trees, and extends-reefs, intervening water and land-5 2/3 sea miles
in an easterly and westerly direction and 1 1/3 sea miles
northwardly and southwardly. The observation spot for
the map in the case is Latitude 5' 52' 18" N., Longitude
1620 05' 55" W. The British islands of Washington,
Fanning and Christmas lie within a 500-mile radius to the
southeast of Palmyra. Use of the islands by the respondents and their predecessors in title was intermittent.
The question of title became important in 1939 when Congress authorized the construction at Palmyra of naval
'Hawaii v. Mankichi, 190 U. S. 197.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

aviation facilities and appropriated $1,100,000 for their
construction. 53 Stat. 590. Negotiations with these respondents, as owners, were undertaken in 1938 by the
Navy Department for a lease of the property but were not
completed. This suit was filed in 1939.
There have been two trials of this case. The records
of both are before us, as the record of the first trial was
made a part of the second. Certain contemporaneous
written evidence of the early transactions was produced.
The findings of fact in the first trial show that two
Hawaiian citizens, Johnson Wilkinson and Zenas Bent,
made a representation concerning Palmyra Island to the
King and the Cabinet Council. The minutes of a meeting
of the Council which took place at Honolulu on February
26, 1862, are extant. The "representation" has not been
found. The Council minutes show the following:
"P. Kamehameha read a Representation from Z
Bent & Mr Wilkinson, about the Island Palmyra, requesting that the Island should be considered a Hawaiian possession & be placed under the Hawaiian
Flag
"After some discussion it pleased the King to direct
the Minister of the Interior, to grant what the Petitioners apply for, following the precedent of the Resolution regarding the Island Cornwallis & without
exceeding the same."
The action of the Council was communicated to Wilkinson and Bent through a letter by the Minister of the Interior on March 1, 1862. In the letter it was said that the
Hawaiian Government consented to the taking possession
of Palmyra "for the purpose of increasing the trade and
commerce of this Kingdom as well as offering protection
to the interests of its subjects." Accompanying the letter
was a commission empowering Bent "to take possession in
our name of Palmyra Island." Explicit directions were

UNITED STATES v. FULLARD-LEO.
256

Opinion of the Court.

contained in the commission that Bent was to sign a
declaration and leave it in a bottle buried at the foot of a
pole wrapped with the Hawaiian flag. The commission was signed jointly by the King and the Minister of Interior. On June 16, 1862, Bent reported that he
had carried out the commission and left a paper as directed. In the same report Bent told of the trees on the
island and the kind of vegetables that would grow. He
said that he had erected a dwelling house on the island
and a curing house for biche -de mer, a kind of edible sea
slug that is prized in the Orient. It also said that he had
left five men on the island and proposed to return in about
ten days. Thereupon the Minister of the Interior duly
issued a proclamation on June 18, as follows:
"Whereas, On the 15th day of April, 1862, Palmyra
Island, in latitude 50 50' North, and longitude 1610
53' West, was taken possession of, with the usual
formalities, by Captain Zenas Bent, he being duly
authorized to do so, in the name of Kamehameha IV,
King of the Hawaiian Islands. Therefore, This is to
give notice, that the said island, so taken possession of,
is henceforth to be considered and respected as part of
the Domain of the King of the Hawaiian Islands."
A finding was made that certain comments on the expedition were published in the Honolulu papers between
the representation to the Council and the proclamation
which was only important in the present litigation as
showing a contemporaneous understanding that possession
was being taken of an island as part of the Domain of the
King of the Hawaiian Islands.
As shown by the minutes of the Cabinet Council, the
Minister of the Interior was directed to grant the application of Bent and Wilkinson "following the precedent of
the Resolution regarding the Island Cornwallis & without
exceeding the same." The meaning of these words is not

262

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

made clear by the record. The United States contends
that the words limit any rights of Bent in Palmyra to "a
five-year right to take guano," and that he never was
"granted or intended to be granted a fee simple title."
The trial court thought that the purpose of the Council
might reasonably have been to limit the authority of Bent
and Wilkinson to islands that were "not in possession of
any other government or any other people." The reason
for this supposition lies in the fact that the commission of
May 31, 1858, to Samuel Clesson Allen, who discovered
Cornwallis Island for Hawaii, to take possession of the
island contained the words just quoted. On the same day
that the commission was issued, a contract was made with
Edward P. Adams for him to take guano for five years
from any islands acquired for Hawaii by Allen in the
schooner, "Kalama." Adams' request for the grant of a
fee to a Y8 interest in any island discovered, so far as shown
by the record, was not acted upon by the Hawaiian legislative body.
. Allen took possession of Cornwallis Island and submitted a report of his expedition on July 12, 1858, to the
Minister of the Interior. Thereupon at a meeting of the
Privy Council on July 27, 1858, the following resolution
was passed:
"Resolved that Cornwallis Island in latitude 16.43
North, and longitude 169.33 west from Greenwich, and
Kalama Island, in latitude 16.44 North and longitude
169.21 west, having been taken possession of, with the
usual formalities, on the 14th and 19th of June 1858,
by Samuel C. Allen Esquire, in the name of Kamehameha IV, the said Islands are to be considered as
part of His Majesty's Domain."
It will be noted that this resolution is substantially in the
form of the later proclamation in regard to Palmyra.
The annexation of Cornwallis Island failed because of
prior discovery by the United States and later, on October

UNITED STATES v. FULLARD-LEO.
256

Opinion of the Court.

16, 1858, the Minister of the Interior cancelled the contract which had been made with Adams.
Thus it will be seen that the meaning of the minutes
concerning the acquisition of Palmyra, following the precedent of Cornwallis, is uncertain. The resolution annexing
Cornwallis is substantially the same as the proclamation
concerning Palnyra. The commission authorizing Bent
to take possession of Palmyra is substantially the same as
the commission to Allen that resulted in the discovery of
Cornwallis. There is no evidence of a contract with Bent
and Wilkinson similar to the guano contract made with
Adams. We conclude that there is nothing in the requirement that the Palmyra acquisition should follow the precedent of the Cornwallis resolution to indicate anything more
than that the sovereignty over Palmyra was to be acquired
for Hawaii, as stated in the proclamation of possession.
There is nothing to lead us to disagree with the trial
court's finding as to Palmyra, as follows:
"The words used in the formality of annexation and
proclamation need not and likely would not have been
different whether it was the intention that the act of
annexion should constitute the vesting of a fee simple
title to the lands in the King, or merely extend sovereignty over the domain annexed."
We find no evidence of a consistent plan or custom of the
Kingdom of Hawaii relating to title to lands on islands
when possession was taken for the Kingdom. The instructions to Wilkinson and Bent were:
"I am authorized to state on the part of His Majesty's
Government that they consent to the taking possession of the island of Palmyra, situated in Longitude
161' 53' west and in Latitude 6' 4 North, as described
by you in said memorial; for the purpose of increasing
the trade and commerce of this Kingdom as well
as offering protection to the interests of its subjects."

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

The trial court ended its findings of fact and conclusions
of law on the first trial in these words:
"My controlling finding is, that the sovereignty of
the United States was extended over Palmyra Island
by Annexation, but the Republic of Hawaii did not in
fact or in form assert fee simple title to this land at
the time of annexation, or at any other time, and it is
sufficient to say, only, as a
Conclusion
I am decidedly of opinion that petitioner [The
United States] does not exhibit a title which can be
sustained in the Courts of the United States, and
therefore, is not entitled to any relief prayed for."
On appeal, the Court of Appeals reversed. United
States v. Fullard-Leo, 133 F. 2d 743. It concluded that
the commission to Bent, heretofore referred to,
"makes it abundantly clear that Bent was merely acting as agent of the King. Under the principles of
international law, the taking of possession by Bent
perfected the title of the King. 1 Hyde, International
Law, 167 § 100; 1 Oppenheim, International Law,
276-278, §§ 221-224; Martin v. Waddell, 16 Pet. 367,
409, 41 U. S. 367, 409, 10 L. Ed. 997. Nothing in the
resolution or the letter referred to is contrary to that
view." Id., 747.
It said there was no proof of subsequent alienation by any
sovereign and that the evidence would not support a finding of a lost grant.
On remand of this case on the first appeal, the trial court
entered further findings of fact and conclusions of law.
It held:
"I believe and so hold that the evidence in this case
is not only entirely consistent with but can reasonably
and logically be accounted for only upon the presump-

UNITED STATES v. FULLARD-LEO.
256

Opinion of the Court.

tion that a grant issued to Bent and Wilkinson by
which the Hawaiian government parted with its
title."
This can only mean that in the trial court's opinion, the
Kingdom of Hawaii acquired sovereignty over Palmyra
and Bent and Wilkinson obtained the private ownership of
the islets. This holding was affirmed on appeal. United
States v. Fullard-Leo, 156 F. 2d 756. Although only
one of the questions presented on certiorari, our determination that the action of the Circuit Court of Appeals is
correct disposes of the entire case.
Hawaii has been a territory of the United States since
the Joint Resolution of Annexation of July 7, 1898. 30
Stat. 750. Before that the islands composing the present
Territory of Hawaii had existed independent from the rest
of the world and sovereign as far back as history and local
tradition reaches.2 When American Christian missionaries arrived at the Islands in 1820, the Hawaiian civilization merged with that of the rest of the known world. At
that time the principal islands of the present Territory
had been united a few years before into a monarchy under
a strong leader, Kamehameha I. Notwithstanding his
death, a short time before the coming of the missionaries,
the kingdom welded by him from the several island communities continued as a recognized monarchy under his
successors until its fall in 1893. A Provisional Government succeeded the monarchy and was in turn followed by
the Republic of Hawaii, the foreign governmental authority mentioned in the Congressional Resolution of Annexation as ceding Hawaii to the United States. From
Kamehameha I to annexation, Hawaii made steady advances in conforming its laws and economy to the manner
of life of the other civilized nations of the world.
2 Hawaii v.

Mankichi, 190 U. S. 197, 216.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

At the time of the annexation of Palmyra Island by the
Kingdom of Hawaii, April 15, 1862, that monarchy possessed a system of land ownership and land laws that were
adequate to establish titles and maintain a proper record
thereof in accordance with the contemporaneous practices
of Anglo-American law. The earlier nineteenth century
laws of the Kingdom had been codified into a Civil Code
in 1859. In this code the Minister of the Interior was
given supervision of the public lands with power to dispose
of them with the authority of the King in Cabinet Council.
Civil Code of the Hawaiian Islands, 1859, c. VII, Art. I.
By c. XXVI, Art. LI, a Bureau of Conveyances with books
of registry was required and by c. XXV, Art. L,
§§ 1241-48, provision was made for probate and administration. Under treaties with foreign nations, Hawaii
permitted the sale of local lands of deceased aliens and
the withdrawal of the proceeds by their heirs. Id., pp. 461
and 471.
Kamehameha I, as King and Conqueror, was recognized
by Hawaiian law as the sole owner of all the soil of the
Islands. Through a system of feudal tenures, not too
clearly defined, large portions of the royal domains were
divided among the chiefs by Kamehameha I and his successors and this process of infeudation continued to the
lowest class of tenants. This system of tenures created
dissatisfaction among the chiefs and people because of the
burdens of service and produce that the inferior owed to
the superior. Consequently by a series of royal and legislative steps, the King and the House of Nobles and Representatives provided for a land system which finally
resulted in a separation of the lands into lands of the Government, the Crown and the People.' This purpose finally
Declaration of Rights, 1839.
Act to Organize Executive Departments and Joint Resolution,
April 27, 1846, Hawaii, Statute Laws, 1845-46, vol. I, pp. 99, 277.
3

UNITED STATES v. FULLARD-LEO.
256

Opinion of the Court.

was manifested by the Act of June 7, 1848." By this act,
much of the land of Hawaii was allocated between the
Crown and the Government. This division of lands became known as "The Great Mahele." I Nothing has been
called to our attention limiting the power of the King to
grant Crown Lands 6 prior to the Act of January 3, 1865.
Compare Jover v. Insular Government, 221 U. S. 623, 633.
The requirement that the Minister of the Interior maintain a record of all royal grants refers only to those for
government land. Civil Code, 1859, § 44. By enactment of the King and the Legislative Assembly in 1865,
the Crown Lands became inalienable except by future legislative action. See "Crown Lands," Revised Laws of
Hawaii, 1905, pp. 1226-30. The private lands of the King
or Crown Lands, confirmed to him by the Act of June 7,
1848, were taken over by the Government in 1895 and
thus became government lands, also.
In order to establish private title to lands in the former
tenants, a Board of Commissioners to Quiet Land Titles
was created in 1846.' This Commission adopted "Principles" for adjudication of claims. These were approved
by the Legislative Council the same year and throw strong
light on the Hawaiian land system shortly before the annexation of Palmyra.8 This Commission dealt not only
with lands included in the Great Mahele but also with
Revised Laws of Hawaii, 1905, p. 1197 et seq.
v. Bishop, 7 Haw. 421, dissent, n. at 454.
8 The domain covered by the term seems to be not only the lands
declared to be the private lands of the King by the Act of June 7,
1848, but also other unassigned lands later declared by legislative
authority to be Crown Lands. Rev. Laws, Hawaii, 1905, p. 1227;
Act of November 14, 1890, Laws, Hawaii, 1890, c. 75; Rev. Laws,
Hawaii, 1905, p. 1229.
7 Hawaii, Statute Laws, 1845-46, vol. I, p. 107.
8 Hawaii, Statute Laws, 1847, vol. II, pp. 81-94; Revised Laws,
Hawaii, 1905, p. 1164 et seq.
4

5 Thurston

755552 O-48-21

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

lands that were not mentioned in that act and established
titles for such lands. It apparently continued until
March 31, 1855.' After the end of the Commission's work,
the Minister of the Interior and the King in Cabinet Council were charged May 17, 1859, with responsibility for
government lands and the maintenance of records for all
royal conveyances. ° This summary of the Hawaiian land
laws at the time of the annexation of Palmyra brings before
us the pattern of land ownership and the system of recordation of titles, both those stemming from royal grants of
government lands and from private transactions. The
claim of respondents to Palmyra must be adjudicated with
this situation in mind. We are not dealing with an explorer's claim of title to lands of a savage tribe or that of
a discoverer of a hitherto unknown islet.
Whether we distinguish between Crown and Government lands, however, seems immaterial. No record appears of any conveyance from King or Minister to any land
on Palmyra. We assume the law required a public record
for any such conveyance from either from the time possession was taken for Hawaii. It is clear that both the
King and the Minister of the Interior with the authority of
1 Thurston v. Bishop, 7 Haw. 421,429, 437.
"The Commission was authorized to consider possession of land
acquired by oral gift of Kamehameha I., or one of his high chiefs,
as sufficient evidence of title to authorize an award therefor to the
claimant. This we must consider as the foundation of all titles to
land in this Kingdom, except such as come from the King, to any
part of his reserved lands, and excepting also the lists of Government
and Fort lands reserved. The land in dispute in this case is not one
of those specifically reserved by the King, Kamehameha III., to
himself and his successors, and not being in the lists of lands specially
set apart as Government or Fort lands, must be one of those over
which the Land Commission had jurisdiction to award to the claimant." P. 429.
10 Haw. Civil Code, 1859, p. 14 et seq.

UNITED STATES v. FULLARD-LEO.
256

Opinion of the. Court.

the King in the Cabinet Council had power to convey the
lands to private citizens. Civil Code, 1859, §§ 39-48; Act
of January 3, 1865, Rev. Laws, Hawaii, 1905, p. 1226, § 3.
We assume further that the formal claim to Palmyra for
the Hawaiian Kingdom made by Bent, pursuant to his
commission, gave Hawaii not only sovereignty over
Palmyra but also the power to grant the lands of the
newly annexed islets as part of its public lands to private
owners.
In the circumstances heretofore described, were the district and circuit courts justified in quieting title to
Palmyra in respondents on the theory of a lost grant?
We take judicial notice of the laws of Hawaii prior to
its annexation as a part of our domestic laws." The rules
under which the Hawaiian people lived under the monarchy or republic define, for the sovereign of today, the
rights acquired during those periods. While in matters
of local law the federal courts defer to the decisions of the
territorial courts," we are dealing here with a problem
of federal law-the United States seeks to quiet its title
to land now claimed by virtue of Hawaiian cession. The
federal rights are partly dependent upon the Hawaiian
law prior to annexation. Therefore while the Hawaiian
law, as it existed before the annexation of the Territory,
is controlling on rights in land that are claimed to have
had their beginnings then the federal courts construe that
law for themselves. The federal courts cannot be foreclosed by determinations of the Hawaiian law by the Hawaiian courts. They will lean heavily upon the Hawaiian
decisions as to the Hawaiian law but they are not bound
to follow those decisions where a claimed title to public
" United States v. Perot, 98 U. S. 428, 430; United States v. Chaves,
159 U. S. 452, 459.
12 De Castro v. Board of Comm'rs, 322 U. S. 451, 459; Christy v.
Pridgeon,4 Wall. 196.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

lands of the United States is involved."3 The roots of respondents' claim spring from Hawaiian law. As their
claim to Palmyra continued after the United States acquired in 1898 whatever rights Hawaii then had, the
validity of respondents' claim must be judged, also, in the
light of the public land law of the United States.
The presumption of a lost grant to land has received
recognition as an appropriate means to quiet long possession. It recognizes that lapse of time may cure the
neglect or failure to secure the proper muniments of title,
even though the lost grant may not have been in fact executed.'
The doctrine first appeared in the field of incorporeal hereditaments but has been extended to realty."
The rule applies to claims to land held adversely to the
sovereign. 6 The case from this Court most often cited is
3

Appleby v. City of New York, 271 U. S. 364, 380; compare Clearfield Trust Co. v. United States, 318 U. S.363, 366; United States v.
Allegheny County, 322 U. S. 174, 183; S. R. A., Inc. v. Minnesota, 327
U. S.558, 564.
14Fletcher v. Fuller, 120 U. S. 534, 545, 547; United States v.
Chavez, 175 U. S. 509, 520.
15Ricard v. Williams, 7 Wheat. 59, 109. See Holdsworth, A History
of English Law, vol. VII, p. 343, et seq.; 1 Greenleaf, Evidence (12th
1

Ed.), § 17.
16 1 Greenleaf, Evidence (16th Ed.), § 45a:

"Thus, also, though lapse of time does not, of itself, furnish a conclusive legal bar to the title of the sovereign, agreeably to the maxim,
'nullum tempus occurrit regi;' yet, if the adverse claim could have
had a legal commencement, juries are instructed or advised to presume
such commencement, after many years of uninterrupted adverse
possession or enjoyment. Accordingly, royal grants have been thus
found by the jury, after an indefinitely long-continued peaceable
enjoyment, accompanied by the usual acts of ownership. So, after
less than forty years' possession of a tract of land, and proof of a
prior order of council for the survey of the lot, and of an actual
survey thereof accordingly, it was held that the jury were properly
instructed to presume that a patent had been duly issued. In regard,
however, to crown or public grants, a longer lapse of time has generally

UNITED STATES v. FULLARD-LEO.
256

Opinion of the Court.

United States v. Chaves, 159 U. S. 452. In that case, there
was evidence of the prior existence of the lost grant. The
title of the claimants was upheld but this Court then
stated, at p. 464, conformably to Fletcher v. Fuller,
supra:
"Without going at length into the subject, it may
be safely said that by the weight of authority, as well
as the preponderance of opinion, it is the general rule
of American law that a grant will be presumed upon
proof of an adverse, exclusive, and uninterrupted possession for twenty years, and that such rule will be
applied as a presumptio juris et de jure, wherever, by
possibility, a right may be acquired in any manner
known to the law."
See United States v. Pendell, 185 U. S. 189, 200-201.
A few years later, in United States v. Chavez, 175 U. S.
509, the problem of the lost grant again arose. In this
case, as to one tract, case No. 38 at 516, the existence of
the grant to Joaquin Sedillo was not shown except by a
statement of January 11, 1734, that the tract conveyed
"was acquired by his [affiant's] father in part by grant
in the name of His Majesty [The King of Spain] . .
P. 514. In referring to the recognition of title in the private owners, this Court said, at 520:
"Succeeding to the power and obligations of those
Governments, must the United States do so? This
is insisted by their counsel, and yet they have felt
and expressed the equities which arise from the circumstances of the case. Whence arise those equities?
That which establishes them may establish title.
Upon a long and uninterrupted possession, the law
bases presumptions as sufficient for legal judgment,
been deemed necessary, in order to justify this presumption, than is
considered sufficient to authorize the like presumption in the case
of grants from private persons."

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

in the absence of rebutting circumstances, as formal
instruments, or records, or articulate testimony. Not
that formal instruments or records are. unnecessary,
but it will be presumed that they once existed and
have been lost. The inquiry then recurs, do such
presumptions arise in this case and do they solve
its questions?"

Thereafter the Court, 524, referred to the long possession
and sustained the claimants in their title.
Cariio v. Insular Government, 212 U. S. 449, was de-

cided on a writ of error to the Supreme Court of the Philippine Islands. An Igorot chieftain sought to register his
land in Benguet Province, long held by his family. Under
claim of succession to the Spanish rights by the Treaty of
Paris and an exception in the Act of July 1, 1902, providing
for temporary administration of civil government in the
Philippines, 7 the land had been taken for public purposes
by the United States and the Philippine Government.
Objection was made by the two governments and sustained
by the Supreme Court of the Philippines on the ground
that the applicant did not show a grant from any sovereign.
This Court thought it unjust, in the circumstances, to require a native to have a paper title.
"It might, perhaps, be proper and sufficient to say that
when, as far back as testimony or memory goes, the
land has been held by individuals under a claim of
private ownership, it will be presumed to have been
held in the same way from before the Spanish conquest, and never to have been public land." 212 U. S.
at 460.
The Philippine judgment was reversed.
The law of the Territory of Hawaii recognizes and has
applied the doctrine of the lost grant in controversies between a claimant to Government land and the Territory.
1732

Stat. 691, § 12.

UNITED STATES v. FULLARD-LEO.
256

Opinion of the Court.

In re Title of Kioloku (1920), 25 Haw. 357. The tract involved in that litigation had been held in "actual, open,
continuous and uninterrupted possession" since 1870. No
record or evidence of a grant by any governmental authority was produced. After a discussion of several of the
cases just referred to and others, it was held that the doctrine of the lost grant, in claims to land against the state,
was the "law of the land" in Hawaii. On appeal the holding was affirmed by the Circuit Court of Appeals for the
Ninth Circuit. That court said:
"Under the rule of law applicable to the case, as
we find it, it was not necessary that the appellee
should prove the probability that a grant did in fact
issue to one of its predecessors in interest. It was
enough to show, as we think it was shown, that there
was a legal possibility of a grant." Territory of
Hawaii v. Hutchinson Sugar Plantation Co., 272 F.
856, 860.
We are therefore of the opinion that where, as here,
there was power in the King or the officials of the Kingdom
of Hawaii to convey a title to Palmyra 8 during the years
immediately following its annexation to the Kingdom of
Hawaii and prior to many of the private conveyances hereinafter referred to, the doctrine of a lost grant may be
applied, in suitable circumstances, and its existence presumed in favor of the predecessors in title of these respondents. In order for the doctrine of a lost grant to be
applicable, the possession must be under a claim of right,
actual, open and exclusive."9 A chain of conveyances is
important. So is the payment of taxes." A claim for
government lands stands upon no different principle in
18

1 Greenleaf, Evidence (16th Ed.), § 45a.

19 Fletcher v. Fuller, supra, 551; United States v. Chaves, supra,
464; United States v. Chavez, supra, 520.
20 Fletcher v. Fuller, supra, 552;
Whitney v. United States, 167
U. S. 529, 546; Jover v. Insular Government, supra, 633.

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

theory so long as authority exists in government officials
to execute the patent, grant or conveyance. As a practical matter it requires a higher degree of proof because of
the difficulty for a state to protect its lands from use by
those without right. We turn then to the circumstances
relied upon by the lower courts as sustaining respondents'
contentions in respect to their claim to and occupation of
Palmyra.
In the earlier part of this opinion, we have set out in
detail the existing governmental record of the proceedings
leading up to the annexation of Palmyra by the Kingdom
of Hawaii in 1862. No positive evidence was produced
as to any grant of Palmyra by Hawaii prior to the latter's
annexation by the United States in 1898. Nor does the
record show the exercise of any direct governmental authority over Palmyra. In 1905, upon a request of the
Governor for an opinion concerning the jurisdiction of
Hawaii over islands to the northwest of Kauai, the Attorney General answered that Hawaii had power to lease
them. It will be noted from the short opinion in the
margin that Palmyra, though over 1000 miles to the southeast of Kauai, was included. Nothing appears as to any
former or subsequent exercise by Hawaii of a power to
lease Palmyra.2 No taxes were collected from those who
21

"OPINION BOOK
Attorney General's Department

Pages 598-600
Opinion No. 18
Honolulu, T. H., Feb. 11, 1905
To His Excellency Geo. R. Carter,
Governor of the Territory of Hawaii,
Honolulu, T. H.
SIR:
In answer to your request of December 15th, 1904, for an opinion
as to the jurisdiction of the Territory of Hawaii over the various small
guano islands to the north-west of Kauai, I would reply as follows:
After a careful investigation of the records in the office of the Secretary of the Territory, formerly the Foreign Office, and from other

UNITED STATES v. FULLARD-LEO.
256

275

Opinion of the Court.

claimed to be owners prior to 1885 when the Pacific Navigation Company paid taxes to Hawaii on Palmyra for

three years. Assessments have been made annually since
1911 and taxes have been paid regularly since then by the
claimants to the property. At the time of annexation by
sources of information, I find that the authority of the Territory of
Hawaii over these islands is as follows:
It appears in the report of J. A. King, Minister of the Interior, dated
the 2nd day of June, 1894, to Sanford B. Dole, President of the
Republic of Hawaii, that formal possession was taken of Necker
Island by the said J. A. King, representing the Republic of Hawaii,
on May 22, 1894; it also appears by that report that the government
of the Hawaiian Islands had sent Captain John Paty to take possession
of said island about 1857; it also appears that he did take such possession at that time.
Palmyra Island, seems to have been acquired during the reign of
Kamehameha IV, by a proclamation signed by him, dated the 15th
day of June, 1862.
Lisiansky Island was taken by the government of the Hawaiian
Islands through Capt. John Paty on the 10th day of May, 1857.
Morell Island and Patrocinio or Byer Island were both taken for
the Republic of Hawaii in 1898, by G. N. Wilcox, a Commissioner
for that purpose appointed.
While I was unable to find any official records of the acquisition
of the other islands, the government has, for many years, assumed
jurisdiction over them. The following leases have been made, from
time to time, and have been undisputed:
Lease of Necker Island, dated the 2nd day of June, 1904, to A. H. C.
Lovekin, at $25.00 per annum, term twenty-five years.
Lease of J. A. King, Minister of the Interior, to the North Pacific
Phosphate & Fertilizer Co. of Morell, Ocean, Pearl and Hermes reef,
Midway and French Frigate Shoals, twenty-five years from the 15th
day of February, 1894.
Laysan and Lisiansky Islands to G. D. Freeth, April 17th, 1893.
While it is to be regretted that the records of our foreign office are
not more complete, possibly a more exhaustive search might find
other documents which, in the present state of the old foreign office,
it was impossible for me to find. I believe that from these records
the government's right to lease the islands, or any privileges thereon,
is clear; also to lease the same, as suggested in your letter. The fact
of making such leases, and the lessees taking possession thereunder,
recognizing the Territory of Hawaii as the landlord would be prima

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

the United States, provision was made for commissioners
to recommend to Congress legislation concerning the Hawaiian Islands. 30 Stat. 750. A full report was made
which was transmitted to Congress by the Pesident on December 6, 1898. U. S. Senate Document No. 16, 55th
Cong., 3d Sess. It dealt with the Public Domain and
shows that the Crown Lands had been taken over by the
Hawaiian Government in 1894, p. 4 et seq. In 1894, the
Crown Lands were in area 971,463 acres. There were no
Crown Lands shown on the smaller islands. P. 102. An
appendix shows the Government lands as of September 30,
1897, and lists in acres and values those of the principal
islands of the group. Pp. 47-51. They amounted, in
acres, to 1,744,713. In the recapitulation, though not included in the lists of public lands, there is an item that
may include Palmyra. It reads, "Laysan, etc., islands,
Acres -, Value $40,000." At another point, p. 4, under
"Area and Population" appears the only reference to
Palmyra. The reference in its setting appears in the
margin.22
facie evidence in international law of our right to the same and
would be the best evidence the government could make of its claim
to the various islands in question.
Yours truly,
(Sgd) LORRIN ANDREWS
Attorney General."
22 S.Doc. No. 16, 55th Cong., 3d Sess., p. 4:
"The Hawaiian group numbers seven inhabited islands and eleven
or twelve small rocky or sandy shoals or reefs, with a total area of
6,740 square miles. They are described as follows:
Population, 1896.
Hawaii, area 4,210 square miles ........................... 33, 285
Maui, 760 square miles .................................. 17, 726
Oahu, 600 square miles .................................. 40, 205
Kauai, 590 square miles (rich farming and grazing lands) .... 15, 228
Molokai, 270 square miles (agricultural and grazing) ........ 2, 307
Lanai, 150 square miles (devoted to sheep raising) ..........
105
Niihau, 97 square miles (leased to sheep raisers) ............
164

UNITED STATES v. FULLARD-LEO.
256

Opinion of the Court.

Respondents' claim of title exists in a consistent series
of transactions beginning in 1862 with a deed to Wilkinson from Bent. The deed was recorded in the Registry
of Conveyances of Hawaii in 1885. It conveyed all Bent's
"right, title and interest in and to all the property of whatever description now lying or situated on Palmyra Island
in the Pacific Ocean which Island by a proclamation of
His Majesty Kamehameha IV at present belongs to the
Hawaiian Kingdom. And also all my right, title and interest in and to any partnership property that I may have
an interest in as co-partner with the said Johnson Wilkinson." The language, we think, is consistent with an intention to convey a claimed interest in the realty "lying
or situated on Palmyra Island" as well as any partnership personal property. Thereafter Wilkinson died in
New Zealand in 1866 and left a will devising to his .wife,
Kalama:
"And also all my landed freehold and leasehold Estates in the Province of Auckland aforesaid, at HonoKahoolawe, 63 square miles.
Molokini, small size.
Lehua, small size.

Nihoa, 500 acres (about), precipitous rock, 400 feet high (244 miles
northwest from Honolulu).
Laysan, 2,000 acres (about), guano island, low and sandy, 30 feet
high (800 miles northwest from Honolulu).
Gardeners Island, two inaccessible rocks, 200 feet high, about 1,000
feet long (607 miles northwest of Honolulu).
Liscansky Island, 500 acres (about), low and sandy, 25 to 50 feet
high (920 miles northwest from Honolulu).
Ocean Island, 500 acres (about), low and sandy (1,800 miles northwest from Honolulu).
Necker Island, 400 acres (about), a precipitous rock, 300 feet high
(400 miles northwest from Honolulu).
Palmyra Island, a cluster of low islets, about 10 miles in circumference,
with lagoon in center; has a few cocoanut trees (1,100 miles
southwest of Honolulu).
Kaula, small, rocky island, a few miles southwest of Niihau.
French Frigate Shoal, scattered shoals or reefs."

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

lulu in the Sandwich Islands in the Island of Palmyra
in the South Sea Islands and wheresoever the same
may be situated and whether in the said Colony of
New Zealand or elsewhere To hold suach real and
personal estate unto the said Kalama absolutely and
forever."
The will was proven and registered in New Zealand and
was later admitted to probate in Hawaii in 1898. In
1885, after the death of Kalama, two of her heirs transferred all their "right, title and interest as heirs at law of
the said Kalama or otherwise, in and to the Island of
Palmyra" to one Wilcox, who conveyed to the Pacific Navigation Company. By a series of some four mesne conveyances between 1888 and 1911 the interest of Pacific
Navigation Company in the island was eventually transferred to one Henry Cooper. A third heir of Kalama's
transferred his rights in the island to one Ringer, whose
children transferred their rights in the Island to Henry
Cooper in 1912. Ringer's widow in 1912 sold all her right,
title, and interest in the island to Maui and Clarke.
In 1912 Cooper petitioned the Land Court of Hawaii
to confirm title in him. Maui and Clarke contested the
petition, claiming to own a dower interest in an "undivided one-third of the Island." Through its Attorney
General, the Territory of Hawaii answered the petition
and disclaimed "any interest in, to or concerning"
Palmyra. The court decreed that Cooper was the owner
in fee simple of the island subject to the dower interest
of Annie Ringer held by Maui and Clarke.23 In 1920,
23 The United States questions the effect on any title of the United
States to Palmyra of the disclaimer of interest in Palmyra by Hawaii.
The United States asserts that all public lands of Hawaii passed to
the United States by the Joint Resolution of July 7, 1898, and the
Resolution of the Senate of Hawaii of September 9, 1897. Rev. Laws,
Hawaii, 1905, pp. 36, 40. Thereafter, in 1900, it is said that Con-

UNITED STATES v. FULLARD-LEO.
256

Opinion of the Court.

Cooper leased the Island to Meng and White who assigned
the lease to the Palmyra Copra Company. In 1922
Cooper sold for $15,000.00 all but two of the islets to Mr.
and Mrs. Fullard-Leo, respondents here, who had taken
over the lease. From the foregoing, it will be apparent
that from 1862 to the breakdown of negotiations a paper
title existed in respondents and their predecessors in title,
except for the grant from the Kingdom, and that there
has been a record of the conveyances in Hawaii since 1885.
There was, during these years, a claim of right to exclusive
possession.
That claim of right was manifested not only by transfers of paper title but also by actual user of the property.
The sufficiency of actual and open possession of property
is to be judged in the light of its character and location."
gress made provision for the disposition of such lands. Hawaiian
Organic Act, 31 Stat. 141; § 73 of the Organic Act, as amended in
1910, § 5, 36 Stat. 444; § 2432, Rev. Laws, Haw., 1905. The position
of the United States is that there was no power in Hawaii to disclaim
any interest that the United States might have in Palmyra in 1912.
We need not resolve this issue. The Land Court record is referred
to as another instance of the claims of respondent to Palmyra adverse
to the claim of ownership of the United States and its predecessors
in title to the public lands of Hawaii.
24 A statement of this Court in United States v. Pendell, 185 U. S.
at 197, is pertinent:
"There are no adverse claimants to the land in question, and the
proof of possession, exclusive in its nature, has been satisfactory to
the court below. What constitutes such possession of a large tract of
land depends to some extent upon circumstances, the fact varying
with different conditions, such as the general state of the surrounding
country, whether similar land is customarily devoted to pasturage
or to the raising of crops; to the growth of timber or to mining, or
other purposes. That which might show substantial possession, exclusive in its character, where the land was devoted to the grazing
of numerous cattle, might be insufficient to show the same kind of
possession where the land was situated in the midst of a large population and the country devoted, for instance, to manufacturing pur-

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
Opinion of the Court.

331 U. S.

It is hard to conceive of a more isolated piece of land than
Palmyra, one of which possession need be less continuous
to form the basis of a claim. This tiny atoll in the Pacific,
however, far removed from any other lands and claimed
by no sovereignty until 1862 was not wholly valueless,
commercially, prior to the establishment of airways over
the ocean.
From time to time, men thought there might be something gained from its exploitation. Bent's "representation" in 1862 for annexation was preceded by an acquaintance with the locality for a number of years. When he
went to take possession he planted vegetables and melons,
built a house and sought sea products. The Pacific Navigation Company had men on the island during 1885 and
1886. Cooper visited the island in 1913 and 1914. He
was then the owner of record. In 1912, at Cooper's suggestion, the then Governor of Hawaii requested the Secretary of the Interior of the United States to send an
American vessel to Palmyra to confirm American sovereignty. The Governor stated that Mr. Cooper was then
the owner and that the private title to Palmyra had been
in citizens of Hawaii since 1862. In 1920 and 1921 the
Palmyra Copra Company was actively engaged on the
island under a lease from Cooper. The Fullard-Leos, who
acquired title to all but two of the islands from Cooper,
visited the island in 1924 and again in 1935. On many
occasions during the interim, they gave permission to
various persons to visit the island.
From these evidences of claim of title and possession
were the District Court and the Circuit Court of Appeals
poses.

Personal familiarity with the general character of the country

and of its lands, and also knowledge of the nature and manner of the
use to which most of the lands in the same vicinity are put, have given
the judges of the court below unusual readiness for correctly judging
and appreciating the weight and value to be accorded evidence upon
the subject of possession of such lands as are here involved."

UNITED STATES v. FULLARD-LEO.
256

RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

justified in entering a decree that the fee simple title to
Palmyra is vested in respondents? The dissent in the
Circuit Court of Appeals points out that our cases applying the lost grant doctrine required "uninterrupted and
long continuing possession of a kind indicating the ownership of the fee." This is the rule. But, as we have indicated above, uninterrupted and long-continued possession
does not require a constant, actual occupancy where the
character of the property does not lend itself to such use."
No other private owner claims any rights in Palmyra.
From the evidence of title and possession shown in this
record, we cannot say that the decrees below are incorrect.
Judgment affirmed.
MR. JUSTICE RUTLEDGE, with whom THE CHIEF JUSMR. JUSTICE BLACK and MR. JUSTICE MURPHY
concur, dissenting.
I agree with the dissenting judges in the Circuit Court
of Appeals that the possession shown on behalf of respondents is not sufficient to establish the presumption of a
lost grant, even if title can be acquired from the Government in that manner. According to my understanding,
the possession, to have that effect, must be actual, open,
notorious, adverse and continuous from the time when the
grant is presumed to have taken place.'
Here for long
TICE,

See Fletcher v. Fuller, 120 U. S. 534, 543.
1 "And hence, as a general rule, it is only where the possession has
25

been actual, open and exclusive for the period prescribed by the
statute of limitations to bar an action for the recovery of land,
that the presumption of a deed can be invoked." (Emphasis added.)
Fletcher v. Fuller, 120 U. S. 534, 551. "The possession must be
adverse, exclusive, and uninterrupted,and inconsistent with the existence of title in another." (Emphasis added.) Peabody v. United
States, 175 U. S. 546, 550. The statement in the authorities that
the possession must be uninterrupted has been qualified only to the

282

OCTOBER TERM, 1946.
RUTLEDGE,

J., dissenting.

331 U. S.

periods the possession was constructive at the most, not
actual. By the same token it was not continuous. 2 I do
not think this Court should expand the established basis
extent that "This presumption may . .. ,in some instances, be properly invoked where a proprietary right has long been exercised, although the exclusive possession of the whole property, to which the
right is asserted, may have been occasionally interrupted during the
period necessary to create a title by adverse possession, if in addition
to the actual possession there were other open acts of ownership."
(Emphasis added.) Fletcher v. Fuller, supra, at 552. And the presumption of continuing possession which exists "in the absence of
evidence to the contrary," Lazarus v. Phelps, 156 U. S. 202, 204, even
if competent to furnish the basis for the further presumption of a
lost grant, is here rebutted by the evidence which has been introduced.
See note 2.
2 The following summary of the island's history was given, with
supporting record references, in note 3 of the dissenting opinion, 156
F. 2d 756, 760, filed by Denman, C. J., with whom Bone, C. J., agreed,
in the Circuit Court of Appeals:
"Zenas Bent visited the island in April, 1862, and left five men there.
In June annexation was formally proclaimed. It does not appear how
long the five men remained on the island but in December of the same
year Bent transferred all his interest to Wilkinson. Wilkinson died
in 1866 and his will was probated in New Zealand giving his rights
in Palmyra to his wife, Kalama. Nothing further occurred until
1885 when the supposed title was transferred to the Pacific Navigation
Company, a conveyance being executed by two of Kalama's heirs and
Bent's deed being acknowledged, 23 years after its execution. Thus,
except for the five men left on the island by Bent in order to make the
annexation effective, there is no indication that there was any possession or even visits to the island for the 23 years following annexation.
On the contrary, the fact that Bent's deed was not acknowledged until
1885, after conveyance by Kalama's heirs, clearly indicates that, in the
meantime, no claim of title or possession was asserted by anyone.
"Employees of the Pacific Navigation Company occupied the island
for approximately a year in 1885 and 1886 and the company paid taxes
in 1885, 1886 and 1887, not to the United States but to the Territory.
(The claimant placed the lands on the tax rolls and in many cases
taxes were paid on public lands.) This company's project apparently
failed and there followed another long period when the island was

UNITED STATES v. FULLARD-LEO.
256

RUTLEDGE,

283

J., dissenting.

for acquiring title to government lands so as to include
acquisition by adverse possession, as in effect the Court's
opinion does. Accordingly, I dissent.
vacant. Some time between 1889 and 1897 a British vessel visited
the island and finding it uninhabited, claimed it for that country. In
1912 at the instigation of Henry Cooper who had just acquired the
supposed title and whose Land Court proceeding to register it was
pending, a vessel of the United States Navy visited the island in order
to confirm this country's claim to it. No occupants were found on the
island. In 1913 and 1914 Cooper made short visits of two or three
weeks to the island and built a house thereon. However, the island
was not permanently occupied and in 1914 evidence was found that
since the 1913 visit Japanese bird poachers had been there.
"In 1920 another attempt was made to commercially develop the
island. It was leased by Cooper; a corporation, The Island of
Palmyra Copra Company, was organized; and a 'settlement group'
was sent to the island. This project was not successful and its activities terminated after about a year. The Fullard-Leos bought Cooper's
rights in 1922 but only visited the island twice, once in 1924 for twelve
days and again in 1935 for one day. Between 1922 and the time
this suit was commenced, no one lived on the island. It was most
frequently visited by United States Navy or Coast Guard vessels
which were in the neighborhood. In fact, Fullard-Leo went on the
Coast Guard vessel 'Itasca' when he visited the island in 1935. Occasionally, vacationists or scientists made short visits to the island.
During this period an unnamed man lived there for two or three
months. On another occasion (1936) a party from Tahiti went there
in an attempt to find a cargo of button shells which were rumored
to have been jettisoned by an unseaworthy boat. By 1938, the house
which Cooper built in 1913 had collapsed and all the various visitors
testified they did not see any evidence of occupation in recent times."
From these facts the dissenting judges concluded: "In the 77 years
from the royal proclamation of taking in 1862 to the filing of the
instant case in 1939, the occupancy of the island has been less than two
and one-half years. Of this a year was in the years 1885-86 and
a year in 1920. In the interim, from 1862 to 1939, there was no one
residing there under a claim of possession-the occasional visitors'
brief stays being for other purposes." 156 F. 2d 756, 765; and see
id. at note 3.
755552 0-48-22

