1306

OCTOBER TERM, 1980

Opinion in Chambers

453 U. S.

METROPOLITAN COUNTY BOARD OF EDUCATION
ET AL. V. KELLEY ET AL.
ON MOTION TO VACATE STAY

No. A-144. Decided August 20, 1981
The motion of Nashville, Tenn., school officials to vacate the Court of
Appeals' stay, pending appeal to that court, of the District Court's
order, which substantially modified its earlier school desegregation order,
is denied. The changes in the prior order are of sufficient significance
that they should be reviewed by an appellate court before they are
implemented.
JUSTICE STEVENS.

Pursuant to the Rules of this Court, the motion of the
Metropolitan Nashville Board of Education to vacate the
stay entered by the United States Court of Appeals for the
Sixth Circuit on August 19, 1981, has been referred to me for
decision. The movants have persuaded me that I have jurisdiction to vacate the stay entered by the Court of Appeals,
but for the following reasons I have decided not to do so.
The District Court order of April 17, 1981, that has been
stayed by the Court of Appeals substantially modifies the
desegregation order that had previously been in effect in
Davidson County, Tenn. The plaintiffs filed an appeal from
the April 17 order and, after hearing oral argument in connection with the plaintiffs' application for a stay, the Court
of Appeals expressed the opinion that the changes in the
prior order are of sufficient significance that they should be
reviewed by an appellate court before they are implemented.
I share that opinion.
Although, as the Board of Education has pointed out, the
stay will cause significant expense and inconvenience to the
community, because the interim order will affect. 21 elementary schools, 6 middle schools and 3 high schools immediately,
and also will have an impact on the permanent plan sched-

METROPOLITAN COUNTY BD. OF ED. v. KELLEY
1306

1307

Opinion in Chambers

uled to go into effect in 1984, it seems to me that even greater
inconvenience might result if the plan were to go into effect

forthwith and be modified or set aside at a later date when
the Court of Appeals reviews its merits. The Court of Appeals has greater familiarity with the case than it is possible
for me to have in the brief time I have had to examine the
papers that have been filed with me; for the purpose of my
action I accept the correctness of that court's determination
that there is a likelihood that plaintiffs will prevail on their
appeal. If that be so, it seems to me that in the long run
there will be less inconvenience and hardship to all parties if
appellate review is had prior to the implementation of the
interim order of the District Court. Accordingly, the motion
of the Board of Education to vacate the stay is denied.

