OPINIONS OF INDIVIDUAL JUSTICES IN
CHAMBERS

SOUTH PARK INDEPENDENT SCHOOL DISTRICT v.
UNITED STATES
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY

No. A-5. Decided July 21, 1981*
Applications of a school district and a group of intervenor parents, children,
and citizens to stay, pending disposition of their petition for certiorari,
the Court of Appeals' mandate to the District Court to prepare and
implement a school desegregation plan for the 1981-1982 school year
are denied. There is no reasonable probability that four Members of
the Court will vote to grant certiorari.

JuSTICE POWELL, Circuit Justice.

A school district in Beaumont, Tex., and a group of intervenor parents, children, and citizens have requested me as
Circuit Justice to stay the mandate of the Court of Appeals
for the Fifth Circuit pending disposition of their petition for
a writ of certiorari. The Court of Appeals ordered the District Court to prepare and implement a desegregation plan to
operate during the 1981-1982 school year. For the reasons
stated below, I must deny the applications.
Much of the history of this lawsuit is set out in Huch v.
United States and South Park Independent School District v.
United States, 439 U. S. 1007, 1008 (1978) (RERINQIST, J.,
dissenting from denial of certiorari). In brief, prior to 1970,
the applicant school district maintained a dual school system
based on de jure racial segregation. In that year the District Court entered a school integration plan that was ac*Together with No. A-33, Huch et al. v. United States, also on application for stay of the same mandate.

1301

OCTOBER TERM, 1980
Opinion in Chambers

453 U. S.

cepted by all parties. The plan established racially neutral
attendance zones for each school and included a provision
allowing any student to transfer from a school where his race
was in the majority to one where it was in the minority.
In 1976, the United States filed a motion for supplemental
relief, alleging that a dual system still existed in fact. The
District Court denied relief, holding that its 1970 order had
created a unitary school system and finding that the present
racial concentrations in the school district were the result of
shifting residential patterns, the transfer of some pupils to
private schools, and other factors beyond the control of the
school district. It held that it no longer retained jurisdiction
over the case and that the United States must file a new complaint if it seeks further relief.
The Court of Appeals reversed. 566 F. 2d 1221 (1978).
Relying on Swann v. Charlotte-MecklenburgBoard of Education, 402 U. S. 1, 26 (1971), it held that the District Court's
findings were insufficient to show that the predominance of
substantially one-race schools was not the result of past or
present acts of intentional discrimination. The court remanded to the District Court to hold further hearings on the
question whether the school district is now a unitary system.
This Court denied certiorari. 439 U. S. 1007. Two Justices
dissented, suggesting that the case presented an important
issue whether PasadenaCity Board of Education v. Spangler,
427 U. S. 424 (1976), precluded continuing jurisdiction by
the District Court where all parties had acquiesced in a desegregation plan six years previously.
On remand the District Court held an evidentiary hearing
and made findings of fact. It found that the 1970 order
created a unitary school system by implementing a racially
neutral attendance zone for each school and that the court
was now without jurisdiction to entertain a motion for supplemental relief. The court recounted at length evidence
tending to show that the 'lesser percentage of desegregation

SOUTH PARK SCHOOL DIST. v. UNITED STATES
1301

1303

Opinion in Chambers

that had been anticipated" was caused by demographic
changes and parental resistance. The court found no evidence that the school district had committed any act of intentional discrimination, but rather that the authorities had
implemented the 1970 plan in good faith.
The Court of Appeals again reversed. United States v.
Texas Education Agency, 647 F. 2d 504 (1981). It held that
the District Court's finding that the implementation of the
1970 order had created a unitary school system was clearly
erroneous. In reaching this decision, the court compared
statistics concerning the racial composition of schools in the
district in the 1969 and 1979 school years. These statistics
indicate that there has been little lasting progress in achieving schools with balanced pupil populations. In 1969, 15 of
20 schools in the district had student populations 90% or more
of one race; in 1979, 11 of 18 still were 90% or more of one
race. The percentage of blacks in the system rose from 33%
in 1969 to 40% in 1979. The court held that the District
Court retained jurisdiction because these figures proved that
the school authorities "had failed to eliminate the continuing
system wide effects of the prior discriminatory dual school
system." Id., at 508.
The standards for granting a stay of mandate pending disposition of a petition for certiorari are well established:
"[T]here must be a reasonable probability that four
members of the Court would consider the underlying
issue sufficiently meritorious for the grant of certiorari
or the notation of probable jurisdiction; there must be
a significant possibility of reversal of the lower court's
decision; and there must be a likelihood that irreparable
harm will result if that decision is not stayed." TimesPicayune Publishing Corp. v. Schulingkamp, 419 U. S.
1301, 1305 (1974) (PowELL, J., in chambers).
I cannot conclude that there is a "reasonable probability"
four Members of the Court will vote to grant certiorari. The

1304

OCTOBER TERM, 1980
Opinion in Chambers

453 U. S.

issues presented by applicants are almost identical to those
presented three years ago, when the Court voted to deny certiorari. Indeed, much of the school district's argument for
granting a stay merely incorporates by reference JusTicO,
RFHNQUIsT's opinion, joined by me, dissenting from the
denial of certiorari at that time. Because this argument did
not persuade the Court then, I cannot predict responsibly
that it will persuade the Court now.
Speaking for myself, I believe that the case in its present
posture merits review by this Court. The Court of Appeals,
relying exclusively on statistics comparing 1969 and 1979, rejected with little explanation the District Court's finding of
fact that the implementation of the consensual 1970 plan had
created a unitary school system, and that the degree of segregation existing in 1980 was caused, not by any discriminatory
action by the school authorities, but by demographic changes
in the public school population and by private parental
choice. The statistics relied on by the Court of Appeals do
not address the legal effect of the implementation of the 1970
order or the legal cause of the degree of present imbalance.
These latter questions should determine whether the District
Court retains jurisdiction over the local schools.
It seems to me that the Court of Appeals may have erred
as a matter of law in failing to give appropriate recognition
to the District Court's factual findings as to the cause of the
lack of present integration. Pasadenamade clear that once
a unitary school system has been attained, the District Court
no longer has jurisdiction to continue its oversight, respond
to inevitable demographic changes, and attempt by judicial
decree to maintain for an indefinite time what it perceives to
be a desirable racial mix in the schools. This is not to say,
of course, that a federal court should not respond forcefully
to proof of fresh or continued racial discrimination.
In sum, it seems to me that there is an impasse between
the District Court and the Court of Appeals as to the mean-

SOUTH PARK SCHOOL DIST. v. UNITED STATES
1301

1305

Opinion in Chambers

ing of our decision in Pasadena. This is an important question of law. For this reason, I expect to vote to grant certiorari. Yet, I cannot say with confidence that the requisite
number of other Justices will join me. Accordingly, the requests for a stay are denied.

