1308

OCTOBER TERM, 1980
Opinion in Chambers

453 U. S.

CITY OF LOS ANGELES ET AL. v. LYONS
ON APPLICATION FOR STAY

No. A-230. Decided September 29, 1981
An application to stay the Court of Appeals' order affirming the District
Court's preliminary injunction-which prohibits members of applicant
city's police department from using "choke-holds" in making arrests
under circumstances that are not life threatening-is granted, pending
the filing and disposition of a petition for certiorari. There is a substantial likelihood that four Members of this Court will vote to grant
certiorari to review the Court of Appeals' holding that respondent, who
had once been subject to such a "choke-hold," has standing to maintain
the action, and there are sufficient equities in the city's favor to warrant
the stay.
JUSTICE REHiNQuIsT,

Circuit Justice.

The Court of Appeals, in its most recent opinion in this
case, rested its holding on the proposition that "[t]his court
will not disturb an order granting a preliminary injunction unless it was an abuse of discretion by the district court."
656 F. 2d 417 (CA9 1981). This proposition, of course,
is not only in accord with its own precedents cited in the
opinion, but with our own cases on the subject. See, e. g.,
Brown v. Chote, 411 U. S. 452, 457 (1973). If that were all
the case involved, there would be so little likelihood that four
Members of this Court would grant certiorari that no further
discussion would be necessary and the applicants' request for
a stay would be denied.
But, as I understand the matter, there is a good deal more
to this case than the most recent opinion of the Court of Appeals issued August 17, 1981. The preliminary injunction
referred to in that opinion was issued by the District Court
only after its earlier partial summary judgment in favor of
the applicants had been reversed by the Court of Appeals in
Lyons v. City of Los Angeles, 615 F. 2d 1243 (CA9), cert.
denied, 449 U. S. 934 (1980) (Lyons I).

LOS ANGELES v. LYONS
1308

1309

Opinion in Chambers

In its opinion in Lyons I, the Court of Appeals held that
respondent had standing to challenge the use by members of
the City of Los Angeles Police Department of so-called
"choke-holds" in situations that are not life threatening.
615 F. 2d, at 1246-1249. Because respondent had once been
the subject of such a "choke-hold," the Court of Appeals held
that respondent had standing to seek an injunction, even
though there was no indication that he would ever be subjected to them again by reason of an arrest by Los Angeles
police officers. "[T]he threat of future injury to not only
Lyons, but to every citizen in the area is much more immediate" than those described in Rizzo v. Goode, 423 U. S. 362
(1976), or O'Shea v. Littleton, 414 U. S. 488 (1974). 615 F.
2d, at 1246.
The Court of Appeals in Lyons I also held that respondent's request for injunctive relief was not moot. "Lyons
once had a live and active claim meeting all the Article III
requirements . . . if only for a period that lasted but a few
seconds. That period could be described as the time between
the moment he was stopped and the moment the stranglehold was applied, or even the split second between the moment
the officer moved to grab him and the moment the stranglehold was applied." Id., at 1248. The Court of Appeals also
explained that Lyons' claim is one that is "capable of repetition, yet evading review," even though a "future recurring
controversy [will] have but a small chance of affecting the
original plaintiff."
On remand, the United States District Court entered the
following temporary injunction:
"IT IS ORDERED that defendants are hereby enjoined from the use of both the carotid artery and bar
arm holds under circumstances which do not threaten
death or serious bodily harm.
"IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that this injunction
is effective.., and shall continue in force until this Court

1310

OCTOBER TERM, 1980
Opinion in Chambers

453 II. S.

approves a training program presented to it. Such program shall consist of a detailed written training manual,
prepared by qualified individuals, in addition to appropriate, practical training sessions for the members of the
Los Angeles Police Department.
"IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that defendant City
of Los Angeles establish a requirement, forthwith, that
all applications of the use of the holds in question, even
under the conditions permitted by this Order, to wit, the
death or serious bodily harm situation, be reported in
writing to said defendant within forty-eight hours after
the use of such holds.
"IT IS FURTHER ORDERED that defendant City
of Los Angeles shall maintain records of such reports in
an orderly fashion, and shall allow this court ready access
to such records upon twenty-four hours' notice." Application, Ex. 4 (emphasis added).
It was this latter "preliminary injunction" that the Court
of Appeals affirmed in its most recent per curiam opinion issued August 17, 1981. Respondent, in opposing this stay of
that judgment of the Court of Appeals, states that "[t]he
question of Lyons' standing to sue was settled in Lyons L"
Response, at 2. This is undoubtedly quite true insofar as the
Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit is concerned, but
Lyons I is not "law of the case" so far as this Court is concerned. The city petitioned for certiorari to review Lyons I,

but its petition was at that time denied.

JUSTICE WHIa,

POWELL, and I dissented. City of Los Angeles v.
Lyons, 449 U. S. 934 (1980).
I am of the opinion that since the District Court has now
formulated the specific terms of an injunction, and held the
use of the so-called "choke-holds" unconstitutional except in
life-threatening situations, there is a substantial likelihood
that an additional Member of this Court would now join JusTICE WHIT:E's dissent from denial of certiorari in Lyons I,

JusTiCE

LOS ANGELES v. LYONS
1308

Opinion in Chambers

thereby resulting in a grant if the city, as it proposes to do,
files a timely petition for certiorari by December 9, 1981.
The issue to be reviewed, of course, is not whether a preliminary injunction should be affirmed on appeal unless it represents an abuse of discretion, but whether respondent has
standing to maintain this action. On this issue, I think there
is enough difference in the approach of the Court of Appeals
in this case and the approach of this Court in O'Shea v. Littleton, supra, and Rizzo v. Goode, supra, to offer applicants a
reasonable chance of success on the merits should the Court
grant certiorari. I likewise think that the Court of Appeals'
"capable of repetition, yet evading review" discussion with
respect to mootness is not entirely consistent with this Court's
opinion in Weinstein v. Bradford, 423 U. S. 147, 149 (1975).
Applicants assert that "[t]he effect of the district court's
order will be to cause more injuries to and deaths of suspects,"
because "[p]olice officers will be unequipped to deal with the
day-to-day handling of violent arrestees who do not threaten
death or serious bodily harm." Application, at 12-13. Respondent argues to the contrary, since he claims that the
applicant city of Los Angeles may obtain relief from the
preliminary injunction merely by properly reforming its training practices "to assure that its police officers understand
how dangerous strangulation is and when its officers should
strangle." Response, at 18. I find it both unnecessary and
probably impossible to decide which of these forecasts, if
either, will prove true.
Respondent urges that I should not act on this stay, because the applicants' request for a stay is nothing more than
a petition for rehearing of the earlier denial of certiorari by
this Court and therefore our Rule 51.1 prevents me from
granting a stay. I am not persuaded by this argument. In
Lyons I, the Court of Appeals stated:
"We note that the appellant in no way asks for a complete prohibition on the use of the stranglehold. He

1312

OCTOBER TERM, 1980
Opinion in Chambers

453 U. S.

only seeks to restrain its use to situations where it is
constitutional. In what circumstances the use of the
strangleholds is constitutional is, of course, a judgment
for the district court to make." 615 F. 2d, at 1244, n. 1.
The District Court has now made that judgment, and entered
an injunction forbidding its use except under certain circumstances. The order requires recordkeeping and that such records be made available to the District Court upon its request.
The case has thus progressed considerably further toward
final resolution than it had at the time certiorari was denied
in Lyons I.
The complaint alleging the use of these police tactics was
filed on February 7, 1977, and the city's petition for certiorari
is due by December 9, 1981. Thus, what is basically involved
in a consideration of traditional "stay equities" is whether
the city shall be allowed to use a particular procedure, already in use for at least four years, for the few additional
months before this Court acts on its petition for certiorari.
I conclude that there is sufficient doubt about the correctness
of the basic holding of the Court of Appeals with respect to
standing on the part of respondent, together with sufficient
equities in favor of the city, to warrant a stay of the Court
of Appeals' order affirming the District Court's granting of an
injunction, pending a timely filing of a petition for certiorari
by the applicants and the disposition thereof by this Court.

It is so ordered.

