OCTOBER TERM, 1994
Syllabus

ANDERSON, DIRECTOR, CALIFORNIA DEPARTMENT OF SOCIAL SERVICES, ET AL. V.
GREEN ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE UNITED STATES COURT OF APPEALS FOR
THE NINTH CIRCUIT
No. 94-197.

Argued January 17, 1995-Decided February 22, 1995

The Federal Government partially reimburses States for Aid to Families
with Dependent Children (AFDC) programs that either comply with all

federal prescriptions or receive a waiver from the Secretary of Health
and Human Services (HHS). Respondents, new residents of California,
challenged the constitutionality of a California statute limiting new residents, for the first year they live in the State, to the benefits paid in the

State from which they came; respondents maintain that the payment
differential between new and long-term residents burdens interstate
migration and thus violates the right to travel recognized in Shapiro
v. Thompson, 394 U. S. 618. The District Court enjoined the payment
differential, and the Court of Appeals affirmed.
Hel& No justiciable controversy is before this Court because the case in
its current posture is not ripe. The state statute provides that the differential will not take effect absent an HHS waiver. The HHS waiver
in effect at the time the lower courts ruled was vacated by the Court of
Appeals in a separate proceeding. The Secretary did not seek this
Court's review of that Court of Appeals decision. Absent a new HHS
waiver, the State will continue to treat respondents the same way it
treats long-term California residents. Thus, the parties have no live
dispute now, and whether one will arise in the future is conjectural.
This impediment to dispositive adjudication requires that the prior judgments in this case be vacated.
26 F. 3d 95, vacated and remanded.

Theodore Garelis, Deputy Attorney General of California,
argued the cause for petitioners. With him on the briefs
were Daniel E. Lungren, Attorney General, Charlton G.
Holland III, Assistant Attorney General, Dennis Eckhart,
Supervising Deputy Attorney General, and Andrea Lynn
Hoch, Deputy Attorney General.

ANDERSON v. GREEN
Per Curiam

Kathleen M. Sullivan argued the cause for respondents.
With her on the brief were Sarah E. Kurtz, Hope G. Nakamura, Peter H. Reid, Mark D. Rosenbaum, Grace A. Galligher, and Steven Shapiro.*
PER CURIAM.

Under Aid to Families With Dependent Children (AFDC),
49 Stat. 627, as amended, 42 U. S. C. ยง601 et seq., the Federal
Government partially reimburses States for welfare programs that either comply with all federal prescriptions or
receive a waiver from the Secretary of Health and Human
Services (HHS). 42 U. S. C. ยง 1315. California seeks to
change its AFDC program by limiting new residents, for the
first year they live in California, to the benefits paid in the
State from which they came. See Cal. Welf. & Inst. Code
Ann. ยง 11450.03 (West Supp. 1994). Green and other new
residents who receive AFDC benefits challenged the constitutionality of this California statute in a federal court action;
they maintain that the payment differential between new
and long-term residents burdens interstate migration and
thus violates the right to travel recognized in Shapiro v.
*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for Minnesota et al.
by Hubert H. Humphrey III, Attorney General of Minnesota, and Jocelyn
F. Olson, Assistant Attorney General, joined by the Attorneys General for
their respective jurisdictions as follows: Robert A- Butterworthof Florida,
Robert A. Marks of Hawaii, and Ernest D. Preate, Jr., of Pennsylvania; for
the Pacific Legal Foundation by Ronald A Zumbrun, Anthony T Caso,
and Deborah J La Fetra;and for the Washington Legal Foundation et al.
by Daniel J Popeo and David A. Price.
Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the American
Bar Association by George E. Bushnell, Jr., Paul M. Smith, and Marc
Goldman;for Catholic Charities U. S. A. et al. by Daniel Marcus; for Law
Professors by Jonathan D. Varat; for the National Welfare Rights and
Reform Union by Timothy J. Casey and ChristopherD. Lamb; and for the
NOW Legal Defense and Education Fund et al. by Martha F Davis and
Deborah A. Ellis.
William Perry Pendley filed a brief for the Mountain States Legal
Foundation et al. as amici curiae.

Cite as: 513 U. S. 557 (1995)
Per Curiam

Thompson, 394 U.S. 618 (1969), and its progeny. The
United States District Court for the Eastern District of California enjoined the payment differential, 811 F. Supp. 516,
523 (1993), and the United States Court of Appeals for the
Ninth Circuit affirmed, 26 F. 3d 95 (1994). We granted California's petition for certiorari. Post, p. 922. We now find,
however, that no justiciable controversy is before us, because
the case in its current posture is not ripe.
The California statute provides that the payment differential shall not take effect absent receipt by the State of an
HHS waiver. See Cal. Welf. & Inst. Code Ann. ยง 11450.03(b)
(West Supp. 1994). HHS originally granted a waiver, which
was in effect when the District Court and Court of Appeals
ruled. But "ripeness is peculiarly a question of timing," and
"it is the situation now rather than the situation at the time
of the [decision under review] that must govern." Regional
Rail Reorganization Act Cases, 419 U. S. 102, 140 (1974).
After the Court of Appeals ruled in this case, it vacated the
HHS waiver in a separate proceeding, concluding that the
Secretary had not adequately considered objections to California's program. Beno v. Shalala,30 F. 3d 1057, 1073-1076
(CA9 1994). The Secretary did not seek this Court's review
of the Beno decision. California acknowledges that even if
it prevails here, the payment differential will not take effect.
Tr. of Oral Arg. 3-6. Absent favorable action by HHS on a
renewed application for a waiver, California will continue to
treat Green and others similarly situated the same way it
treats long-term California residents. The parties have no
live dispute now, and whether one will arise in the future is
conjectural. See Hall v. Beals, 396 U. S. 45 (1969) (per curiam) (after this Court noted probable jurisdiction, Colorado
Legislature reduced to two months challenged six-month
residency requirement for voting in Presidential elections;
revival of controversy consequently became too speculative
to warrant Court's passing on substantive issues).

ANDERSON v. GREEN
Per Curiam

In view of the impediment to dispositive adjudication, we
direct the vacation of prior judgments in this case. As we
explained earlier this Term, in deciding whether to disturb
prior judgments in a case rendered nonjusticiable, we have
inquired, pivotally, "whether the party seeking relief from
the judgment below caused the [nonjusticiability] by voluntary action." U. S. Bancorp Mortgage Co. v. Bonner Mall
Partnership,ante, at 25. Unlike settlement, see ibid., or a.
losing party's decision to forgo appeal, see Karcher v. May,
484 U. S. 72, 83 (1987), California's loss of the federal approval necessary to implement its program was not voluntary. Vacatur is appropriate, therefore, to "clea[r] the path
for future relitigation of the issues between the parties and
[to] eliminat[e] a judgment, review of which was prevented
through happenstance." United States v. Munsingwear,
Inc., 340 U. S. 36, 40 (1950).
Accordingly, the judgment of the United States Court of
Appeals is vacated, and the case is remanded to that court
with directions to order the vacation of the District Court's
judgment and the dismissal of the case.
It is so ordered.

