OCTOBER TERM, 1994
Syllabus

REICH v. COLLINS, REVENUE COMMISSIONER OF
GEORGIA, ET AL.
CERTIORARI TO THE SUPREME COURT OF GEORGIA
No. 93-908.

Argued October 11, 1994-Decided December 6, 1994

Georgia taxed retirement benefits paid by the Federal Government, but
exempted those paid by the State, until this Court held, in 1989, that
such a scheme violates the Federal Constitution. Georgia then repealed its state retiree tax exemption, but did not offer federal retirees
refunds for the unconstitutional taxes they had paid before the Court's
1989 decision. Petitioner Reich, a federal retiree, sought redress under
a Georgia statute requiring refunds of "illegally assessed" taxes. In
affirming the state trial court's denial of such relief, the State Supreme
Court held that the refund statute does not apply where the law under
which the taxes were assessed and collected was itself subsequently
declared to be invalid. It then denied Reich's petition seeking reconsideration under McKesson Corp. v. Division of Alcoholic Beverages and
Tobacco, Fla. Dept. of Business Regulation, 496 U.S. 18, and similar
cases, which establish that due process requires a "clear and certain"
remedy for taxes collected in violation of federal law, and that a State
may provide that remedy before the disputed taxes are paid (predeprivation), after they are paid (postdeprivation), or both. Reich petitioned
for certiorari, and this Court remanded for further consideration in light
of Harper v. Virginia Dept. of Taxation, 509 U. S. 86, which had relied
on McKesson in circumstances similar to this case. In again denying
Reich's refund claim, the State Supreme Court reviewed Georgia's predeprivation remedies and found those remedies to be "ample."
Held: The Georgia Supreme Court erred in relying on Georgia's predeprivation remedies to deny relief Although due process, under McKesson, allows a State to maintain a remedial scheme that is exclusively
predeprivation, exclusively postdeprivation, or a hybrid, and to reconfigure its scheme over time to fit changing needs, it may not do what
Georgia did here: "bait and switch" by reconfiguring, unfairly, in midcourse. Specifically, Georgia held out what plainly appeared to be a
"clear and certain" postdeprivation remedy, its tax refund statute, and
then declared, only after Reich and others had paid the disputed taxes,
that no such remedy exists. In this regard, the State Supreme Court's
reliance on predeprivation procedures was entirely beside the point (and
thus error), because even assuming the constitutional adequacy of those
procedures-an issue not here addressed-no reasonable taxpayer

Cite as: 513 U. S. 106 (1994)
Syllabus
would have thought that they represented, in light of the apparent applicability of the refund statute, the exclusive remedy for unlawful taxes.
Cf. NAACP v. Alabama ex rel. Patterson,357 U. S. 449. The case is
remanded for the provision of meaningful backward-looking relief consistent with due process and the McKesson line of cases. Pp. 110-114.
263 Ga. 602, 437 S. E. 2d 320, reversed and remanded.
O'CONNOR, J., delivered the opinion for a unanimous Court.

Carlton M. Henson argued the cause and filed briefs for
petitioner.
Warren R. Calvert, Senior Assistant Attorney General of
Georgia, argued the cause for respondents. With him on
the briefs were Michael J. Bowers, Attorney General, and
Daniel M. Formby, Senior Assistant Attorney General.*
*Briefs of amici curiae urging reversal were filed for the Committee
on State Taxation by Kendall L. Houghton and William D. Peltz; for
James B. Beam Distilling Co. by Morton Siegel and John L. Taylor, Jr.;
for the National Association of Retired Federal Employees et al. by
Michael J. Kator; and for the Tax Executives Institute, Inc., by Timothy
J McCormally and Mary L. Fahey.
Briefs of amici curiae urging affirmance were filed for the State of
Alabama et al. by James S. Gilmore III, Attorney General of Virginia,
David E. Anderson, Chief Deputy Attorney General, Catherine C. Hammond, Deputy Attorney General, Roger L. Chaffe and Gregory E. Lucyk,
Senior Assistant Attorneys General, and Cynthia W Comer and Barbara
H. Vann, Assistant Attorneys General, and by the Attorneys General for
their respective States as follows: James H. Evans of Alabama, Grant
Woods of Arizona, Robert Butterworth of Florida, Robert A Marks of
Hawaii, Roland W Burris of Illinois, Pamela Carter of Indiana, Bonnie
J Campbell of Iowa, Robert T Stephan of Kansas, Richard P. Ieyoub of
Louisiana, Hubert H. Humphrey III of Minnesota, Jeremiah W (Jay)
Nixon of Missouri, Joseph P. Mazurek of Montana, Jeffrey R. Howard of
New Hampshire, Deborah T Poritz of New Jersey, Heidi Heitkamp of
North Dakota, Susan B. Loving of Oklahoma, Ernest D. Preate, Jr., of
Pennsylvania, Charles W Burson of Tennessee, Dan Morales of Texas,
Jan Graham of Utah, Jeffrey L. Amestoy of Vermont, Christine 0. Gregoire of Washington, and James E. Doyle of Wisconsin; and for the National
Governors' Association et al. by Richard Ruda and Charles Rothfeld.
Michael F. Easley, Attorney General, Edwin M. Speas, Jr., Senior Deputy Attorney General, Thomas F. Moffitt and Norma S. Harrell, Special

REICH v. COLLINS
Opinion of the Court

JUSTICE O'CONNOR delivered the opinion of the Court.

In a long line of cases, this Court has established that due
process requires a "clear and certain" remedy for taxes collected in violation of federal law. Atchison, T & S. F. R. Co.
v. O'Connor, 223 U. S. 280, 285 (1912) (Holmes, J.). A State
has the flexibility to provide that remedy before the disputed
taxes are paid (predeprivation), after they are paid (postdeprivation), or both. But what it may not do, and what Georgia did here, is hold out what plainly appears to be a "clear
and certain" postdeprivation remedy and then declare, only
after the disputed taxes have been paid, that no such remedy exists.
I
For many years, numerous States, including Georgia, exempted from state personal income tax retirement benefits
paid by the State, but not retirement benefits paid by the
Federal Government (or any other employer). In March
1989, this Court held that such a tax scheme violates the
constitutional intergovernmental tax immunity doctrine,
which dates back to McCulloch v. Maryland, 4 Wheat. 316
(1819), and has been generally codified at 4 U. S. C. ยง 111.
See Davis v. Michigan Dept. of Treasury, 489 U.S. 803
(1989).
In the aftermath of Davis, most of these States, Georgia
included, repealed their special tax exemptions for state retirees, but few offered federal retirees any refunds for the
unconstitutional taxes they had paid in the years before
Davis was decided. Not surprisingly, a great deal of litigation ensued in an effort to force States to provide refunds.
The instant suit is part of that litigation.
In April 1990, Reich, a retired federal military officer, sued
Georgia in Georgia state court, seeking a refund for the tax
years 1980 and after. The principal legal basis for Reich's
Deputy Attorneys General, and Marilyn R. Mudge, Assistant Attorney
General, filed a brief for the State of North Carolina as amicus curiae.

Cite as: 513 U. S. 106 (1994)
Opinion of the Court

lawsuit was Georgia's tax refund statute, which provides: "A
taxpayer shall be refunded any and all taxes or fees which
are determined to have been erroneously or illegally assessed and collected from him under the laws of this state,
whether paid voluntarily or involuntarily

....

"

Ga. Code

Ann. ยง48-2-35(a) (Supp. 1994).
The Georgia trial court first decided that, because of
ยง48-2-35's statute of limitations, Reich's refund request was
limited to the tax years 1985 and after. Even as to these
later tax years, however, the trial court refused to grant a
refund, and the Georgia Supreme Court affirmed. See Reich
v. Collins, 262 Ga. 625, 422 S. E. 2d 846 (1992) (Reich I).
The Georgia high court explained that it was construing
the refund statute not to apply to "the situation where
the law under which the taxes are assessed and collected
is itself subsequently declared to be unconstitutional or
otherwise invalid." Id., at 628-629, 422 S.E. 2d, at 849.
Reich then petitioned the Georgia Supreme Court for reconsideration of its decision on the grounds that even if the
Georgia tax refund statute does not require a refund, federal
due process does-due process, that is, as interpreted by
McKesson Corp. v. Division of Alcoholic Beverages and Tobacco, Fla.Dept. of Business Regulation, 496 U. S. 18 (1990),
and the long line of cases upon which McKesson depends.
See id., at 32-36, citing Iowa-Des Moines Nat. Bank v. Bennett, 284 U. S.239 (1931); Montana Nat. Bank of Billings v.
Yellowstone County, 276 U. S.499 (1928); Carpenterv. Shaw,
280 U. S.363 (1930); Ward v. Board of Commr's of Love Cty.,
253 U. S.17 (1920); Atchison, T & S. F. R. Co. v. O'Connor,
supra; see generally Fallon & Meltzer, New Law, NonRetroactivity, and Constitutional Remedies, 104 Harv. L.
Rev. 1733, 1824-183.0 (1991). As we said, these cases stand

for the proposition that "a denial by a state court of a recov-

ery

of taxes exacted in violation of the laws or Constitution
of the United States by compulsion is itself in contravention
of the Fourteenth Amendment," Carpenter,supra, at 369,

REICH v. COLLINS
Opinion of the Court

the sovereign immunity States traditionally enjoy in their
own courts notwithstanding. (We should note that the sovereign immunity States enjoy in federal court, under the
Eleventh Amendment, does generally bar tax refund claims
from being brought in that forum. See Ford Motor Co. v.
Department of Treasury of Ind., 323 U. S. 459 (1945).)
Reich's petition for reconsideration in light of McKesson
was denied. He then petitioned for certiorari. While the
petition was pending, we decided Harper v. Virginia Dept.
of Taxation, 509 U. S. 86 (1993), which relied on McKesson
in circumstances similar to this case. Accordingly, we remanded Reich's case to the Georgia Supreme Court for further consideration in light of Harper. See Reich v. Collins,
509 U. S. 918 (1993).
On remand, the Georgia Supreme Court focused on the
portion of Harperexplaining that, under McKesson, a State
is free to provide its "clear and certain" remedy in an exclusively predeprivation manner. "[A] meaningful opportunity
for taxpayers to withhold contested tax assessments and to
challenge their validity in a predeprivation hearing," we
said, is "'a procedural safeguard [against unlawful deprivations] sufficient by itself to satisfy the Due Process Clause."'
See Harper,supra, at 101, quoting McKesson, supra, at 38,
n. 21. The court then reviewed Georgia's predeprivation
procedures, found them "ample," and denied Reich's refund
claim. Reich v. Collins, 263 Ga. 602, 604, 437 S. E. 2d 320,
322 (1993).
Reich again petitioned for certiorari, and we granted the
writ, 510 U. S. 1109 (1994), to consider whether it was proper
for the Georgia Supreme Court to deny Reich relief on the
basis of Georgia's predeprivation remedies.
II
The Georgia Supreme Court is no doubt right that, under
McKesson, Georgia has the flexibility to maintain an exclusively predeprivation remedial scheme, so long as that

Cite as: 513 U. S. 106 (1994)

Opinion of the Court

scheme is "clear and certain." Due process, we should add,
also allows the State to maintain an exclusively postdeprivation regime, see, e. g., Bob Jones Univ. v. Simon, 416 U. S.
725, 746-748 (1974), or a hybrid regime. A State is free as
well to reconfigure its remedial scheme over time, to fit its
changing needs. Such choices are generally a matter only
of state law.
But what a State may not do, and what Georgia did here,
is to reconfigure its scheme, unfairly, in mid-course-to "bait
and switch," as some have described it. Specifically, in the
mid-1980's, Georgia held out what plainly appeared to be a
"clear and certain" postdeprivation remedy, in the form of
its tax refund statute, and then declared, only after Reich
and others had paid the disputed taxes, that no such remedy
exists. In this regard, the Georgia Supreme Court's reliance on Georgia's predeprivation procedures was entirely beside the point (and thus error), because even assuming the
constitutional adequacy of these procedures-an issue on
which we express no view-no reasonable taxpayer would
have thought that they represented, in light of the apparent
applicability of the refund statute, the exclusive remedy for
unlawful taxes. See generally Rakowski, Harper and Its
Aftermath, 1 Fla. Tax Rev. 445, 474 (1993).
Nor can there be any question that, during the 1980's,
prior to Reich I, Georgia did appear to hold out a "clear
and certain" postdeprivation remedy. To recall, the Georgia
refund statute says that the State "shall" refund "any and
all taxes or fees which are determined to have been erroneously or illegally assessed and collected from [a taxpayer]
under the laws of this state, whether paid voluntarily or involuntarily .... ." Ga. Code Ann. ยง 48-2-35(a) (Supp. 1994)
(emphasis added). In our view, the average taxpayer reading this language would think it obvious that state taxes
assessed in violation of federal law are "illegally assessed"
taxes. Certainly the United States Court of Appeals for the
Eleventh Circuit thought this conclusion was obvious when,

REICH v. COLLINS
Opinion of the Court

in a 1986 case, it denied federal court relief to taxpayers
raising claims similar to Reich's, in part because it thought
Georgia's refund statute applied to the claims. See Waldron
v. Collins, 788 F. 2d 736, 738, cert. denied, 479 U. S. 884
(1986).
Respondents, moreover, do not point to any Georgia Supreme Court cases prior to Reich I that put any limiting
construction on the statute's sweeping language; indeed, the
cases we have found are all entirely consistent with that language's apparent breadth. See, e. g., Georgia v. Private
Truck Council of America, Inc., 258 Ga. 531, 371 S. E. 2d
378 (1988); Henderson v. Carter,229 Ga. 876, 195 S. E. 2d 4
(1972); Parke, Davis & Co. v. Cook, 198 Ga. 457, 31 S. E. 2d
728 (1944); Wright v. Forrester,192 Ga. 864, 16 S. E. 2d 873
(1941). Even apart from the statute and the cases, we find
it significant that, for obvious reasons, States ordinarily prefer that taxpayers pursue only postdeprivation remedies,
i. e., that taxpayers "pay first, litigate later." This preference is significant in that it would seem especially unfair to
penalize taxpayers who may have ignored the possibility of
pursuing predeprivation remedies out of respect for that
preference.
In many ways, then, this case bears a remarkable resemblance to NAACP v. Alabama ex rel. Patterson, 357 U. S.
449 (1958) (Harlan, J.). There, an Alabama trial court held
the National Association for the Advancement of Colored
People in contempt for failing to comply with a discovery
order to produce its membership lists, and the Alabama Supreme Court denied review of the constitutionality of the
contempt judgment on the grounds that the organization
failed earlier to pursue a mandamus action to quash the underlying discovery order. The Court found that the Alabama high court's refusal to review the contempt judgment
was in error. Prior Alabama law, the Court said, showed
"unambiguous~lyl" that judicial review of contempt judgments had consistently been available, the existence of man-

Cite as: 513 U. S. 106 (1994)
Opinion of the Court

damus notwithstanding. Id., at 456. For good measure,
the Court also looked at prior Alabama law on mandamus
and found nothing "suggest[ing] that mandamus is the exclusive remedy" in this situation. Id., at 457 (emphasis in
original). Justice Harlan thus concluded: "Novelty in procedural requirements cannot be permitted to thwart review in
this Court applied for by those who, in justified reliance
upon prior decisions, seek vindication in state courts of
their federal constitutional rights." Id., at 457-458, citing
Brinkerhoff-Faris Trust & Say. Co. v. Hill, 281 U. S. 673
(1930) (due process violated when state court denied injunction against collection of unlawful taxes on the basis of taxpayer's failure to pursue administrative remedies, where
State's prior "settled" law made clear that no such administrative remedies existed); see generally Meltzer, State Court
Forfeitures of Federal Rights, 99 Harv. L. Rev. 1128, 11371139 (1986).
Finally, Georgia contends that Reich had no idea (before
Davis) that the taxes he was paying throughout the 1980's
might be unconstitutional. Even assuming Reich had no
idea, however, we are not sure we understand the argument.
If the argument is that Reich would not have taken advantage of the State's predeprivation remedies no matter how
adequate they were (and thus has no standing to complain of
those remedies), the argument is beside the point for the
same reason that we said that the Georgia Supreme Court's
reliance on those remedies was beside the point: Reich was
entitled to pursue what appeared to be a "clear and certain"
postdeprivation remedy, regardless of the State's predeprivation remedies. Alternatively, if the argument is that
Reich needed to have known of the unconstitutionality of his
taxes in order to pursue the State's postdeprivation remedy,
the argument is wrong. It is wrong because Georgia's refund statute has a relatively lengthy statute of limitations
period, and, at least until this case, see Reich I, 262 Ga., at
629, 422 S. E. 2d, at 849, contained no contemporaneous pro-

114

REICH v. COLLINS
Opinion of the Court

test requirement. Under such a regime, taxpayers need not
have taken any steps to learn of the possible unconstitutionality of their taxes at the time they paid them. Accordingly,
they may not now be put in any worse position for having
failed to take such steps.
For the reasons stated, the judgment is reversed and
the case is remanded for the provision of "'meaningful
backward-looking relief,"' Harper,509 U. S., at 101, quoting
McKesson, 496 U. S., at 31, consistent with due process and
our McKesson line of cases. See, e. g., Carpenterv. Shaw,
280 U. S. 363 (1930).
It is so ordered.

