JANUARY TERM 1836.

THOMAS STANLEY, APPELLANT V. JOHN GADSBY, ALEXANDER M'INTYRE AND GEORGE CONER, EXECUTORS

OF JAMES WALKER DE-

CEASED, AND JAMES RHODES.
A filed a bill in the circuit court, for an injunction to prevent the sale of property by
a trustee, to whom it had been conveyed to secure the payment of a sum of money
borrowed by him at usurious interest. The money borrowed had not been repaid:
and the bill sought no discovery of the usury from the defendant, but averred that
the complainant would be able to prove it by competent testimony. The circuit
court dismissed the bill. Held, that the decree of the circuit court was correct.
This is substantially an application for relief from usury; and the consequence of
granting the injunction would be relief upon terms at variance with the rule of
equity, so fully recognized at this term of the court, in the case of Brown v. Swann
et al.: that he who seeks the aid of equity to be delivered from usury, must do
equity by paying the principal and legal interest upon the money borrowed. The
complainant does not offer to do so in this bill. This is essential to every such
application in a court of equity : first, to give the court jurisdiction" and to enable
the chancellor, if he thinks proper to do so, to require the payment of principal
and interest before the hearing of the cause. The relief sought in such cases is an
exemption from the illegal usury. The whole inquiry on the hearing, is to establish that fact; aid to give relief to that extent. Whenever a complainant does
not comply with the rule, by averring in his bill his readiness or willingnes to
pay principal and interest, he can have no standing in a court of dquity.

ON appeal from the circuit court of the United States for the District
of Columbia, in the county of Washington.
This was a bill filed in the circuit court, by the appellant, against
the executors of James Walker, praying for an injunction on a
trustee, to prevent his proceeding to sell certain real estate, conveyed
to him to secure the payment of a sum of money loaied to the complainant ; and for relief against an alleged usurious contract.
The circuit court dismissed the bill.
The case is fully stated in the opinion of the court.
The case was submitted to the court without argument, by Mr
Swann, for the appellants; and by Coxe, for the appellees.

Mr Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the Court,
This is an appeal from the circuit court of the United States for
the District of Columbia, and for the county- of Washington.
VOL. x.-3 q

SUPREME COURT.
TStanley v. Gadsby.]

The complainant alleges, that he borrowed a sum of money from
James Walker, at usurious interest; and that to secure the payment
of it he executed a deed of trust upon his house and lot, in Washington, to the defendant, James Rhodes; in which he covenanted, if default should be made in the repayment of the loan at the stipulated
time, that the trustee, Rhodes, shall, upon the request of said James
Walker, or his executors, administrators or assigns, sell the premises
to the highest bidder, and convey the same to a purchaserin fee simple: notice of the sale being given, of the time of sale, in the way
mentioned in the deed of trust. He further complains, that the executors of Walker have directed Rhodes to proceed to a sale of the
house and lot ; that he had advertised them for sale: and *he atdmit,
The complainant
that he had not repaid the money borrowed.
seeks no discovery of the usury from the defendant ; but avers that.
he will be able to prove it by competent testimony, and waives all
penalties, to which he may be entitled, to arise out of this transaction. He prays for an injunction to prevent the sale of the property
by the trustee, until the question of usury shall be decided at law:
but does not ask the court to aid in any way as auxiliary to any case
pending at.law.
This then is substantially an application for relief from usury; and
the consequence of granting the injunction would be relief upon terms
at variance with the rule of equity, so fully recognized at this
term
of the court, in the case of Brown v. Swann et al. : that he who seeks
the aid of equity, to be relieved from usury, must do equity by paying the. principal and legal interest upon the money borrowed. The
complainant does not offer to do so in his bill. This is essential to
every such application in a court of equity: first, to give the court
jurisdiction, and to enable the chancellor, if he thinks proper to do
so, to require the paymentof principal and interest before the hearing of the cause. The relief sought in such cases is an exemption
from the illegal usury. The whole inquiry on the hearing is to
establish that fact, and to give relief to that extent. Whenever then
a complainant does not comply with the rule, by averring in his bill
his readiness or willingness to pay principal and interest; he can
have no standing. in a court of equity.
The decree of the circuit court is affirmed.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript.of the record

JANUARY TERM 1836.

523

[Stanley v. Gadsby.]

from the circuit court of the United States for the District of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Washington, and was
argued by counsel; on consideration whereof, 'it is decreed and
ordered by this court, that the decree of the said circuit court in
this cause be, and the same is hereby affirmed with costs.

