JANUARY TERM 1836.

ALPHONSO WETMORE, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR V. THE UNITED STATES.
A paymaster in the army of the United States, appointed under the act of congress
passeu the 24th of April 1816, is entitled to the pay and emoluments of a major of
infantry, and not those of a major of cavalry.
The army registers, published by the adjutant and inspecLur-general of the army, containing the general regulations of the armywhich are delivered by the departments
to the officers of the army, are not evidence to establish the pay and emoluments
of officers in the service. These are fixed and determined by acts of congress.
The registers are compilations issued and published to the army by the direction of
the secretary at.war, in the exercise of his official authority; and When authenticated by him, would be evidence of the facts, strictly so, they may contain ; such
as the names of officers, date of commissions, promotions, resignations, and' regimentaj rank, brevet and other rank, or the department of the army to which officers belong: but from none of these can an inference be drawn by a jury to establish the pay and emoluments of officers; as they are provided for by law, and must
be determined by the court when they are doubtful, and the subject of dispute in a
suit between an officer and the United States. Nor can such registers be evidence
of the correctness of any classification of the officers of departments into a general
staff of the army: for though they are probably correct, being prepared by persons
whose professional duty it is to be well informed upon the subject, and who, from
their familiarity with military science and the general arrangement of armies, are
supposed to be expert interpreters of the acts of congress for the organization of
our army ; still, what officers are of the staff, or gene.al staff, depends upon acts of
congress, which are to be expounded by the courts, when an officer claims i judicial determination, of his rights as to pay and emoluments frona his having been
arranged as belonging to-the staff.

IN error from the district court of the United States for the district of

missouri.
An action of indebitatus assumpsit was instituted at September
term 1832, by the United States, in the district court of the- United
States for the Missouri district, against Alphonso Welmore, upon -an
account regularly adjusted, settled and certified at the treasury of
the United States on the 18th of November 1831. The account
charged the defendant with the sum of 3388 dollars and 18 cents,
"for difference of pay and forage, between a major of cavalry and a
major of infantry, improperly received by him, and 6ow'brought to his
debit." At the foot of the-account there is a statement by the second
auditor of the treasury, as follows: " the same being the, difference
of pay and forage claimed by him, between a major of cavalry and

SUPREME COURT.
[Wetmore v. The United States.]

a major of infantry, to which he is considered as not entitled by the
accounting officers of the treasury of the United States."
The cause was tried by a jury on the 6th of September 1832, and
a verdict was found for the United States.
The United States produced and read in evidence, the duly certified transcript from the treasury showing the amount of the claim
against the defendant.
It was admitted on the trial, that the defendant had served as a
paymaster (duly appointed as such) in the army of the United
States, from the said 24th day of April 1816'to the said 31st. day of
May 1831; and that the amount stated in said a~count and iianscript to be due from the defendant to the United States consists
solely of the difference'between the pay and emoluments allowed by
the accounting officers to the defendant, and the pay'and emoluments retained and. claimed by him durin' .the period of service
aforesaid.
The defendant claimed to be allowed for his service during the
period aforesaid, the pay and emoluments allowed, by law, to other
officers of the general staff of the army of the rank of major ; and
who are entitled to the pay and.emoluments of majors of cavalry.
. He offered in evidence an army register, prepared and published
by the adjutant and inspector-general of the United States in 1816,
which register was delivered to the defendant, and other -officers
of th6 army; in the register the officers of the pay department,•
created by the act of congress of.the 24th of April 1816, are arranged
as belbnging to the general. staff of the army ; which evidence was,
.on motion of the plaintiffs, rejected by the court, to which opinion of
the court, the defendant, by his counsel, excepted.
The defendant also offered in evidence the register of the army of
the United States for the year 1831, prepared, published and subscribed by the adjutant-general ; in which register the officers-of the
pay department-are arranged under the head, and as appertaining
to the general staff of the army; which evidence, as offered, was
rejected by the court, and the defendant, by his counsel, excepted to
the said decision rejecting said testimony. The defendant then
offered to read tcr the jury a general order, dated, "head quarters
of the army, adjutanI-general's office, Washington, l1th of June
1832 ;".order No. 50, signed by the adjutant-general; and purporting to have been issued by command of major-general Alexander
Macomb, commander-in-chief; which order. prescribes the dress of

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Wetmo.e v. The United States.]

the officers, non-commissioned officers, musicians, and privates of the
army, and other regulations of the government of the army; and
contains, among other things, the following, to wit: "the general
staff is to include the. adjutant-general,. the inspectors-general, the
aids-de-camp, the officers of the quartermasters' department, the
officers of the subsistence department, the officers of the pay department, the officers of the medical department, the commissary-general
of purchases." To the reading which general order, the plaintiffs
by their counsel, objected; and the court sustained the objection, and
rejected the evidence so offered: to which opinion of the court, the
defendant, by his counsel; excepts. No further evidence being offered,
the defendant moved the court to instruct the jury as follows:
1. That the defendant is entitled to the pay and emoluments
allowed by law to the officers of the general staff of the army, of the
rank of major; that is to say, the pay and emol'uments allowed to
majors of light dragoons, by the act of congress of the 12th of April
1808.
2. That if the, jury find from ,the evidence that the defendant
was, from the 24th of April 1816, to the time of the statement of the
account read in evidence, an officer in the general staff of the army,
he isentitled,.for the time he has so served, to the pay and emoluments allowed by law to the. officers of the general staff of the rank
of major.
Which instructions were by the court refused ; and the court instructed the jury that the defendant, in virtue of his office, was entitled only to receive, the pay and emoluments of a major of infantry :
to which opinions of the cohrt in refusing the instructions prayed for
by the defendant, and also to the instructions given ;the defendant,
by his counsel, excepted. The court sealed a bill of exceptions.
The district court gave judgment on the verdict in favour of the
United States; and the defendant prosecuted this writ of error.
The case was argued by Mr Jones, for.the plaintiff in error; and
by Mr Butler, attorney-general, for the United Sta.es.
" It was agreed that the following documents, facts and circumstances, omitted in the statement contained in..the bill of exceptions,
shall be'supplied by consent, and considered on the argument and
decision of this writ of error as part of the case, in like manner as if
VOL. x.-4 G

SUPREME COURT.
[Wetmore v. The United States.)

they had been annexed to and stated in said bill of exceptions, and
had formed part of the original record, to wit:
"I. That the two army registers referred to in the bill of exceptions,
as printed and published by.order of the secretary of war, in the
years 1816 and 1831, be annexed to this case and considered as part
thereof, and of the record: and it is admitted that such registers
were prepared, 'and were issued and published to the army, by the
direction of the secretary of war, in the exercise of his authority as
such secretary.
"2. That the general order, No. 50, of the 11th of June 1832, referred to in said bill.of exceptions, be in like manner annexed to this
case and considered as part thereof, and of the record : and it is admitted to be an authentic general order, such as it purports to be,
and was regularly .published and issued-to the army.
"3. That the 'General Regulations -for the Army,' printed and
published by the war department in the year 1825, be in like manner annexed to this case, and considered as part thereof, and of the
record: and it is admitted that the same are the regulations established by the.president of the United States for the government of
the army,and were published as.such by his authority'
"4. That the custom and usage of the army has always been to
class the officers of the pay department among the Qfficers of the
general staff of the army.
"5. That since the act of the 24th of April 1816 (6 Laws U. S.
.79), for the organization of the generalstaff, &c., it has been the
invariable usage and practice of the treasury department, and of the
proper accounting officers, to allow the pay and emoluments of majors of cavalry to the assistant .adjutants-general, to the assistant
inspectors-general, to the deputy quartermasters-general, and to the
topographical engineers; and since the act of the 2d of March 1824
(6 Laws U. S. 553), to majors on ordnance duity, and to the quartermasters."
Mr Justice WAYNE' delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is a writ of error from the district court of the United States
for the district of Missouri, to have a judgment reversed,,which was
',ndered for the United States, against the plaintiff in error.
',t was admitted on the trial, that the defendaint had served as
paymaster of the army, duly appointed as such, from the 24th April
1816, to-the 31st May 1831. That the amount- claimed from him

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Wetinore v. The United States.]

by the United States was the difference between tie pay and emoluments allowed by the accounting officers of the treasury to the
'defendant, and the amount claimed and retained by him during the
period of his service. The defendant had retained the pay and
ernolumehts allowed by law to officers of the general staff of the
army, of the rank of major. Upon the trial, the defendant offered as
evidence two army registers; one published by the adjutant and
inspector-general of the army.in August 1816, the other published
in 1831, which'had been delivered to himself and other officers of
-the army. In both, the officers of the pay departme it arear'ranged
as belonging to or appertaining to the general staff of the army. He
also offered as evidence a general order, issued by the major-general.
commanding in chief, dated at head quarters of the army, adjutantgeneral's office, Washington, the 11th June 1832; which directs,
that the general staff is to include the officers of the pay department.
These registers, and the general order, the court refused to allow to
be .read as evidence to the jury; and 'no further evidence being
offered by. the defendant, he moved the court to instruct the jury :
1st. That the'defendant is entitled to the pay and emoluments
allowed by law to the officers of the general staff of the army, of the
rank of mnjor ; that is to say, the pay and emoluments allowed. to
majors of light dragoons by the act of congress of the 12th April .1808.
2d. That if the jury find, from the evidence,, that the defendant
was, from the 24th April 1816 to the time oi' the statement of the
account read in; evidence, an officer in.the general staff df the army;
he is entitled, for the time he has served, to the pay and emoluments
allowed by law to the officers of the general staff of the rank of major.
" The c6urt refused to give the instructions; and instructed the jury
that the defendant, in virtue of his office, was entitled only to receive
the pay and emoluments of a major of infantry.
These registers, however, and the general order of the majorgeneral, with the general regulations of the army printed and published by the war department in the year 1825, have, since the writ
of error was sued out, been admitted, by the consent of the attorney.
general, to be a part of the original record, as if they had been referred
to and stated itr the bill of exceptions, and had been proved on- the,
trial. And it is further admitted by the attorney-general and the
defendant's counsel, that the custom and usage of'the army have
always been, to class the officers of the pay department among the
officers of the general staff of the army; and that since the act of

SUPREME COURT.
[Wetmore v. The United States.]

the 24th April 1816, for the organization of the general staff, &c.,
it has been the inyariable usage and practice of the treasury depart-

ment, and of the proper accounting officers, to allow the pay and
emoluments of a major of. cavalry to the amistant adjutants-general,
to the assistant inspectors-general, to the deputy quartermastersgeneral, and to the topographical engineers; and since the act of the
2d March 1821, to majors on ordnance duty, and to the quartermasters.
It is but proper, however, to remark, that the court did right in
rejecting the registers and general order, when the defendant offered
them as evidence on the trial. The registers are compilations issued
and published to the army by the direction of the secretary at war,
in the exercise of his official authority; and when authenticated by
him, would be evidence of the facts, strictly so, they may contain;
such as the names of officers, dafe of commissions, promotions, resignations, and regimental rank, brevet and other rank, or the department of the army to which officers belong: but from none of these
can an inference be drawn by a jury to establish the pay and emoluments of officers; as they are provided for by law, and must be determined by the court when they are doubtful, and the subject of dispute in a.suit between an officer and the United States. Nor can
such registers be evidence of the correctness of any classification of
the officers of departments into a general staff of the army: for
though they are probably correct, being prepared by persons whose
professional duty it is to be well informed Upon the subject, and who,
from their familiarity with military science and the general arrangement of armies, are supposed to be expert interpreters of the acts of
congress for the organization of our army; still, what officers are of
the staff, or general staff, depends upon acts of congress, which are
to be expounded by the courts, when an officer claims a judicial
determination of his rights as to pay and emoluments, from his having
been arranged as belonging to the staff.
However, we are not now called on to say what officers make up
the general staff, or what departments of the army may be assigned
to it, or are comprehended in it by the acts of congress; nor is it
necessary for the decision of this case, to deny that paymasters may
not be arranged as of the staff, -under the act of the 2d March 1821.
Copsidering the staff as a central point of military operations, whence
should proceed all general orders for the army, the orders of detail,
of instruction, of movement, all general measures for subsisting,

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Wetmore v. The United States.]

paying and clothing the army; and as the administrative organ of all
supplies for the military service and land defence -of the country: it
seems to us, that paymasters, from theii" duties and responsibilities,
should be classed with the general staff; and we presume it has
been done under the act of the 2d March 1821, which, without being
express upon the point, has rendered indeterminate the previous acts
of congress fixing with certainty the officers composing the staff.
Conceding, then, for the purposes of this argument, that paymasters
are of the staff; does it strengthen the claim of the defendant to the
pay and emoluments of a major of cavalry ?
The position taken in favour of cavalry pay is, that paymasters,
being of the general staff, are entitled, by the third section of the :act
of the 24th April 1816, to the pay and emoluments allowed by law
to the officers of the general staff of the rank of major. The third
section declares, "that regimental and battalion paymasters shall
receive the pay and emoluments of majors," without the additional
words of cavalry or infantry. The ninth section of the same act secures to the several officers of the staff the privileges, pay and emoluments of the act of the'3d March 1813. By the third section of that
act, the assistant adjutapts-general, assistant inspectors-general,
deputy quartermasters-general, and assistant topographical engineers,
aredeclared to have the brevet rank and the pay and emoluments
of a major of cavalry. These are the officers of the staff, upon in
equality with whom, in regard to pay and emoluments, it is contended that paymasters are placed by the act of the 24th April 1816.
The question depends entirely upon the construction of the acts Of
congress. Having examined them, we are of opinion, that congress
meant, by the words "the pay and emoluments of major," those of
a major of infantry.
It was urged, however, in the argument, against this conclusion,
that congress, in referring to the pay of major to fix that of paymasters, when there are different amounts of pay allowed to majors,
according to the nature of the service, had reference to those whose
duties are most analogous to that of paymasters, and who belong to
the same branch of service. That paymasters belong to the staff of
the army; and all officers of the staff who receive the pay of major,
are allowed cavalry pay. That there was a strong analogy between
deputy quartermasters and paymasters, both being of the staff and
disbursing officers, which raised a fair and strong presumpticn that

654

SUPREME COURT.
[Wetmore v. The United States.]

congress intended paymasters should receive the same pay and
emoluments as deputy quartermasters, or majors of the staff.
Upon these suggestions of analogy, we remark; it will not be pretended, before the act of 1816 was passed, that any relation existed
between paymasters and the officers of the staff receiving the pay of
a major of cavalry, to enable the former to have their pay graduated
by that standard. In all the acts of congress, providing for the appointment of paymasters, whether they were regimental or district
paymasters, or whether they were. to be selected from the line of the
army, or from citizens not of the army; the pay was fixed in reference
to the duties and responsibilities of the appointment, without reference to any connexion, of paymasters with the staff, and without
regard to any analogy of duty between paymasters and any officer
of the staff. In truth, the only analogy existing between paymasters
and. any officer of -the staff, is that to deputy quartermasters ; both
being disbursing officers. The want of general hnalogy, then, shows
that congress could not have been influenced in fixing the pay of
paymasters by any such consideration ; and the particular analogy
between them and a single class of. officers, in a single point, is insufficient to sustain such a 'presumption. Besides, the act relied
.upon to.establish the equality contended for, makes a difference -between paymasters and the officers of thf staff, in regard to rank;
enough of itself to account for the larger pay-and emoluments allowed to the latter. They have the brevet rank of majors of cavalry,
which is not given to paymasters; and to the latter the law allows
no rank. The language of the act of 1813, referred to in the ninth
section of the act of 1816, is, that the assistant adjutants-general,
assistant inspectors-general, deputy quartermasters-general, and topographical engineers., shall, have the "brevet rank," and the pay
and emoluments of a major of cavalry. The section of the act of
1816, fixing the pay of paymasters, omits the words "brevet rank."
As well might it be contended that they should have it, as that the
words of.cavalry should be added to the word major. One would
do no more violence to rules for the construction of statutes than
the other; but both would-be in harmony with the principle applied
in this instance, to give the paymasters cavalry pay. Rank of itself,
in every service, is a good ground for a distinction in pay and
though it has not been followed, or has rather, been abandoned in
ours, in favour of the brevet rank of officers in the line and staff,
it should be presumed to apply to persons having rank, and those

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Wetmore v. The United States.]

who have none. Cavalry pay, then, having been claimed on the
ground of equal grade in the staff, the fact being -'1.herwise; nothing
is left to sustain the claim.
But it will be asked, by what considerations is-it determined that
the pay and emoluments of paymasters are those of a major of infantry ? We answer : first, that all the previous legislation of congress, from the earliest period of the government, and its practice,
give a rule which should be decisive of this question. The acts,
riom 1792 to the 2d March 1821, (the last upon the subject) show
that congress, in determining at different times, the pay of paymasters, have always fixed it with reference to the pay of an officer in
the line, with such additional compensation as was deemed to-be a
remuneration for increased duty and responsibility; whether the
selection was to be made from subalterns of the army, or from citizens; and when the latter, where there was a deviation, it has been
by giving a fixed monthly compensation. This uniformity of practize certainly outweigh§ any presumption that can be raised from
the ninth section of the act of 1816, that there was to be a sudden
change of it in favour of staff pay: especially so, when the ninth
section can only be received as providing for a certain officer, officially designated in the act of 1813, and entirely independent of the
third section of the act of 1816, which had already fixed the pay of
paymasters. It would be very difficult to connect the two sections,
the third and ninth, in any way, to bear upon each other; and the
mistake in doing it has arisen from going out of the statute, and engrafting upon the intention of, congress the exterior consideration
that paymasters had been arranged under the general staff.
Again, when the acts speak of regimental and battalion paymasters, these laws must necessarily refer to the existing composition of
the army, whether it be made up of all, or one, of .the different arms
of defence ; and cannot, without great violence, be supposed to mean
one of them not comprehended in the existing military establishments of the country. So also, when the law speaks of a major, the
term is most naturally considered as having been used in reference
to such officers of that rank, and of such regiments actually being
of the army, or to.the army as it exists; and when it'is used without'regimental designation, implies a major of infantry; this arm of
defence having been made the main body of modern armies. We
think military men must so understand it; because, in this, as in all
other cases where distinct parts form the minor portion, the larder

. SUPREME COURT.
[Wetmore v. The United States.]

or main body is understood without particular designation, and the
minor requires it, to ascertain with certainty what part is referred to
as spoken of. So that where the ninth section of the act of the 2d
of March 1821, declares that there shall be fourteen paymasters,
with the pay and emoluments of regimental paymasters; and when
to ascertain what the pay and emoluments are, we have to resort to'
the third section of the act of 1816, and there find it to be those of
a major: the law must mean a regimental. and not a staff major, a
major of infantry. Certainly it should not be tortured to mean a
major of one of the arms of defence or kinds of regiment, of which
there is none in the army. When the act of 1816 was passed,
cavalry did not form a part of the army ; consequently no such rank
as major of cavalry existed, by which the pay of paymasters could
have been graduated. But it was urged in argument, that there
was such a thing. as the pay of a major of cavalry, subsisting in
legal contemplation. There was ; but for no other purpose than as
giving the standard of pay to certain staff officers. It is not probable that congress, when fixing the pay of paymasters, referred to
what only existed in contemplation of -law; in preference to what
existed in fact, to guide its determination.
But another, and the only remaining consideration to which we
shall allude, as decisive of the interpretation here given to the third
section of the act of 1816, is the contemporaneous exl~ition and
practice under it, by the accounting officers of the treasury, and acted
upon by congress, when five years afterwards it re-organized the'pay
department of the.army. The ninth section of the act of the 2d of
March 1821, to reduce and fix the military peace establishment,
declares that there shall be one'paymaster-general, with the present
compensation, and fourteen. paymasters with the pay, &c. of. regimental paymasters. This act, in reference to the paymaster-general,
is positive in-continuing the existing compensation ; and the term
regimental, applied to the paymaster, is to be taken in the sense in
which it is used in the act fixing the peace establishment, or to the
kinds of regiment of which the army was to be composed; and as
bontinuing the paymasters upon the footing they actually were, and
had been for five years, in regard to pay and emoluments. Congress knew what these were, and cannot be supposed to have intended to re-enact the'law of 1816, with the construction of it here con-'
tended for; in opposition to the practice of the treasury department
under it.

Judgment affirmed.

