SUPREME COURT.

.SABELLA MACKEY

WIDOW, JOHN ZENON

MACKEY AND

OTHERS,

HEIRS OF JAMES MACKEY, APPELLANTS v. THE UNITED STATES.

A grant of land in Missouri, made by the lieutenant-governor of Upper Louisiana,
before the treaty of 1803, confirmed.

In repeated decisions, the supreme court have affirmed the authority of local governors, under the crown of Spain, to grant land in Louisiana, before the same was
ceded by Spain to France: and the court have also affirmed the validity of descriptive grants, though not surveyed before the 11th of March 1804 in Missouri, and

the 24th of January 1818 in Florida.

ON appeal from the district court of the United States, for the district
of.Missouri..
The case .is
stated in the opinion of the court.
It was argued by Mr White, for the appellants; and by Mr Butler,
attorney-general, for the United States.
Mr Justice BALDWIN delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is an appeal fiom the decree of the district court of Missouri,
rejecting the claim of the appellants to eight hundred arpents of land
in that state ; for the confirmation of which they had filed their petition, pursuant to the provisions of the act of 1824, for the adjustment
of land claims in that state.
The petition was in the form prescribed by the law, presenting a
proper cage for the jurisdiction of the court.
The claim of the petitioners was founded on an application by
James Mackey, to the lieutenant-governor of Upper Louisiana, on
the 13th of September 1799; for a grant of eight hundred arpents of
land, at a place therein particularly described. On the 14th of the
same month, the application was granted by the lieutenant-governor,
with directions to make the survey, and put the party into possession..
The grant or commission was proved to have been in the handwriting of the surveyor-general; the signature of the lieutenant-governor was also proved to be genuine. The claim of the petitioner
.was rejected by the district court; on.the ground that the g, nt was
not consistent with the regulations of O'Reilly, made in 1770, and
was invalid fo. the want of authority to make it.

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Mackey v. The United States.]

Having heretofore decided that these regulations were not in force
in Upper Louisiana, this court cannot consider them as in any way
affecting the title of the petitioners. - In repeated decisions we have
affirmed the authority of the local governor to make grants of land,
and have also affirmed tei validity of descriptive grants ; though not
surveyed before the 10th of March 1804, in Missouri; and the 24th of
January 1818 in Florida.
But there is another objection to the title of the c4aimaiits,. which
is suggested in the decree of the court below; though it is not assigued as a reason for its rejection.
In the original petition to the lieutenant-governor, the land prayed
for is described as adjoining the land of Mr Choteftu ; vhereas the
grant to Choteau for the land referred to, was not made until January
1800, four months after the date of.Mmrckey's application, in Septem-ber 1799. This was deemed a circumstauce tending to. show that
his grant was fraudulently antedated; and had it not been explained,
would have induced this court to have directed an issue' to the court
below to try its genuineness.
By the record in the case of Choteau's Heirs, decided at the last
term, 9 Peters 142, 143 ; it appears, thab' by a letter of the 20th of
May 1799, tle governor-general of Louisiana directed the governor
of the upper province to favour all the undertakings of Mr Choteau.
In the evidence given in that case it was established, that Mr Choteau -had erected a distillery on the tract granted to-him in 1800, as
early as 1796 ; which was occupied and in operatiou front that time
until the date of the grant : after obtaining which he enlarged and
continued the establishmentit the same place. It is therefore perfectly
consistent with the date of Mackey's application, that he should refer
to'land in the occupation and actual possession of Choteau; thouggh
hehad not at the time any grant or orde. of survey. The record in
the present case also shows that the court below have considered this
subject, and did hot think the reference to Choteau's land was such
evidence of fraud or antedating of the grant, as to make it their duty
to prevent it from being used as evidence of title to the land claimed.
The final decree was rendered on the 15th of Jamary 1830. On
the 16th, the court ordered that the clerk retain, with the papers on
file in this case, the concession upon which the claim is founded, unlil
its further order. On the 18th, the court." ordered that the petimioners show cause why tile concession unde" wich the petitioners claim

342

6UPREME COURT.
[Mackey v. The United States.]

should not be impounded by the court." This rule was discharged
on the 5th of February 1830.
After such evidence as appears on the record in the case of Choteau, and the proceedings of the district court in this case in relation
to the grant to the petitioner ; it is fair to presume that that court was
satisfied on their last examination that the grant to Mackey was genuine, and not open to any impeachment on account of the reference
to Choteau's adjoining land. It would be assuming much in this
case, for this court to decide, as a matter of fact, that the grant was
fraudulent and void : the proof of the signature to and the handwriting of the grant is positive and uncontradicted: and the reference to
Choteau's land, before the date of the grant to him, is accounted for.
We therefore are of opinion that the grant was genuine, and that the
title of the petitioners derived therefrom is valid by the law of nations,
of the United States, of Spain ; under whose government the claim
originated ; and by the stipulations of the treaty ceding Louisiana to
the United States ; and ought to be confirmed.
It is therefore ordered, adjudged and decreed by this court, that the
decree of the district court be, and the same'is hereby reversed; and
proceedingto render such decree as the said district court ought to have
rendered; it is further ordered, adjudged and decreed, that the title
of the petitioners to the land described in their petition to the district
court, is valid by the laws and treaty aforesaid, and the same is hereby
confirmed as therein described: and that the surveyor of public lands
in Missouri be, and he is hereby directed to survey the quantity of
land"claimed in the place described in the petition and grant, or concessidn; that he deliver to the petitioners a copy or plot of such
survey, and also do and perform such other acts and things therein,
as by law are directed.

