662

SUPREME COURT.

THE MAYOR, ALDERMEN. AND INHA1ITANTS Or

NEW

ORLEANS, AP-

PELLANTS V. THE UNITED STATES.
I no United States alleged, by a petition presented to the districtcourt of the United
States for the district of Louisiana, that by the treaty, of cession of the late province of Louisiana, the United States succeeded to all the antecedent rights of
France and Spain, as they then were, in and over the province, the dominion and
possession thereof, including all lands which were not private property;. and that
certain lots and vacant lands in front of the city ofNew Orleans, which the petition asserted passed to the United States by the cession, had, by an ordinance of the
city, been directed to be sold for the use of the city. The petition prayed that the
city of New Orleans should be perpetually enjoined from selling the same, or doing
any other act which shall invade the rightful dominion of the United States over
• the said land, or their possession of it, The city of New Orleans claimed the
ground; which lies between the line of the front houses of the city and the river
Mississippi: First, as having been left by the king of France as quays for the use
and benefit of the city. Second, because if since the foundation of the city the
space of ground became wider than was necessary for-the use of the city as quays,
it was occasioned by alluvial deposits in front of the city, in consequence of works
erected by the inhabitants at the expense of the city to advance the levee in front
on the river. Third, because by the laws of Spain, in force when the alluvions
were formed irk front of the city, such formations belonged to the inhabitants of
the cities; who may dispose of the same as they may think convenient, on 'their
leaving what is necessary for the public use. The district court of Louisiana ordered the perpetual injunction as prayed ; and that decree was reversed on appeal.
In order to dedicate property for public use, in cities and towns and other places, it
is not essential that the rikht to use the same shall be vested in a corporate body.
It may exist in the public, and have no other limitation than the wants of the
community at large.
The principles upon which the case of the city of Cincinnati v.'White, GPeters 431,
and the case of Barclay and others v. Howell, 6 Peters 498, were decided, examined and affirmed.
If buildings had been erected on lands within the space dedicated for public'use, or
grants of part of the same have been made by the power which had authority to
make, and had made a dedication of the same to public use; the erection of the buildings and the making of the grants would not be considered as disproving the dedication, and the grants would not affect the vested rights of the public.
The question is well settled at common law, that the person whose land is bounded
by a stream of water which changes its course gradually by alluyial formations,
shall still hold the same boundary, including the accumulated soil. No other rule
can be applied on just principles. Every proprietor whose land is thus bounded,
is subject to loss by the same means which may add to his territory : and as he is
also without remedy for his loss in this way, lie cannot be held accountable for his
gain. This rule is no less just when applied to public, than to private rights.
It would be a dangerous doctrine to consider the issuing of a grant, as conclusive
evidence ofa right in the power which issued it. On its face it is conclusive, and

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[New Orleans v. The United States.]
cannot be controverted; but if the thing granted was not in the grantor, no right
vasses to th. granteee.

APPEAL from the district court of the United States for east Louisiana.
On the 3d day of March 1825, the attorney of the United States
for the eastern district of Louisiana, filed a petition in the district
court, stating that the mayor of the city of New Orleans, in pursuance of an ordinance of the city council thereof to that effect, had
advertised for sale in lots, the vacant land included between Ursuline, Levee and Garrison streets, and the public road in the city of
N(.w Orleans; and also the vacant land included between the customhouse, Levee and Bienville streets, and the public road in the same
city.
That.by the treaty of cession of the late province of Louisiana to
the United States, they succeeded to all the antecedent rights of
France and Spain, as they then were in and over the province, the

dominion and possession thereof, including all lands which were not
private property; and that the dominion and possession of the vacant
lands endeavoured to be sold by the city council had, ever since the
discovery and occupation of the province by France, remained vested
in the sovereign, and had not, at any. time prior to the date of the
treaty, been granted to the city of New Orleabs.
"Wherefore, inasmuch as the said attempt of the-said city council
to sell the lands as private property, is an invasion of the rightful
dominion and possession of the United States in the premises," the
petition prays that the mayor, aldermen and inhabitants of Now
Orleans may be summoned to appear and answer the petition; and
in the meanwhile that they may be inhibited by injunction from
proceeding further in the said attempt or from doing any act to invade the rightful dominion and possession of the United States in
thesaid land ; -and that after due proceeding the injunction be made
perpetual'; and also for all other suitable and needful relief.
The district judge ordered an injunction, according to the prayer
of the petition. In December 1827, the corporation of New Orleans
filed an answer to the petition of the Unitpd States, which, after the
usual reservations, denied all the material facts and allegations in the
petition ; and positively denied that the dominion and possession
of the pretended vacant land, which the respondents had offered
to sell, by an ordinance of the city council, "was, or did (at the time

664

SUPREME COURT.
[New Orleans v. The United States.]

of the treaty of cession to the United States) remaine"vested in either
the king of Spain or the sovereign of France, either as vacant land,
or under any other denomination, and that the same passed as such
to the United States."
The answer prayed that the petition should be dismissed, and the
injunction dissolved.
In December 1829, the corporation of New Orleans filed a supplemental answer to the petition of the district attorney of the United
States; in which they ask leave to add the following pleas to those
contained in their original answer. They say that the inhabitants
of the city of New Orleans are the true and lawful proprietors of the
property.
1. Because all the space of ground which exists between the front
line of the houses of the city and the river Mississippi, was left by
the king of France, under the name of quays, for the use and benefit
of the said inhabitants; as appears by authentic copier of the original
plans of the foundation of the city.
2. Because if since the foundation of the city of New Orleans the
space became wider than was necessary for public use, and for the
quays of the city ; it was in consequence of an increase formed by
alhivion in the greatest part of the front of the city, and the works
which were successively made, from time immemorial, by the inhabitants of the city at their expense, to the levee in front thereof, to
advance it nearer to the river than it was formerly.
3. Because, by the laws of Spain which were in force at the time
the alluvions were formed, and said works were made) alluvions
formed by iivers in front of cities belonged to the inhabitants thereof;
who may dispose of the same as they think convenient, on their
leaving what is necessary for the public use.
Further they say, the vacant lots claimed in the petition are worth
the sum of at least sixty thousand dollars, of the property and disposal
of which the respondents cannot be deprived, unless they were previously indemnified therefor by the government of the United States.
The United States, in December 1830, filed a replication to. these
pleas, denying all the allegations contained in the answer, and the
supplemental answer to the petition.
The case was afterwards submitted to a jury; but on the jury not
being able to agree, they were discharged by the court, with the
consent of the parties. Afterwards, the trial by jury being waived
by consent, the case was submitted to the court upon statements of

JANUARY TERM 183G.
[New Orleans v. The United States.]

facts prepared by the parties; and on the 18th day of June 1831, the
district court made a decree in favour of the United States, being of
"opinion that the defendants had not exhibited sufficient evidence to
support their title to the premises in dispute ;" and decreed, ihat the
injunction of the United States be made perpetual.
The corporation of New Orleans prosecuted an appeal to this court.,
The statement of facts exhibited, as proved by the United States,
contained:
1.. A reference to proceedings before the commissioners of the
United States, under the acts of congress relating. to the adjusting of
land claims in Louisiana, relative to certain claims of lands within
the property asserted to belong to the corporation of New Orleans;
which claims had afterwards been confirmed by congress.
2.. Agrant for a part of the land to Francisco Loiteau. The particulars of the claims, referred to in.No. 1, and of the grant to Loi.
teau, are stated in the opinion of the court.
3. Evidence that on theground the United States, in 1819, erected
a. building for :a customhouse, in which he courts of the Udited
*Staies are held: that previous to 1793, the Spanish government had
erected on part of the ground two buildings; one used as a customhouse, at the time of the cession; the other as a tobacco warehouse:
that .a portion of a brick house still existed on the lot granted to
Francisco. Loiteau: that the corporation had erected water-works on
part of thp ground, which are rented to. ifidividuals: barracks for the
accommodation of..the garrison of New Orleans were placed on the.
ground by the French goveument in 1757, which existed and were
occupied at the time of the cession.
4. An act of congress of 1812, granting to the .city of New Orleans
a lotof ground in the city: an act of 3d March 1822, entitled "an
act supplemental to an act entitled an act autharizing the disposal
of certain lots of ground in the city of New Orleans and town of
Mobile," which was. alleged to have been passed at the instance of
the corporation of New Orleans.
6. A copy of proceedings before the commissioners of the United
States on certain-claims of the corporation of New Orleans relative
to part of the ground.
6. An ordinance of Don Alexander O'Reilly, dated tne 22d February 1770. This dec.ree designates the city properties "of the city
VOL. x.-4 i

SUPREME COURT.
[New Orleans v. The United States.]

of New Orleans," but does not include in the same the property in
controversy.
7. The mayor, aldermen and inhabitants derive a large revenue
from duties imposed on vessels and boats moored at the Levee, in
front of the city of New Orleans.. It amounted, during thb year
1830, to 30,000 dollars. And a duty has always been collected by
the municipal authorities of New Orleans, on vessels moored at the
Levee, since the promulgation of the ordinance of O'Reilly, above
referred to.
On the part of .the corporation of New Orleans, the following
statement of facts, and also the .documents annexed to the same,
were filed in the cause:
1. From time immemorial, both before. and subsequently to the
cession of Louisiana to Spain, there has existed, for the convenience
of commerce, both in the towns of France and in those of the French
colonies, situated on navigable streams or on the sea-shore, a vacant
space between the first row of buildings and the water's edge; which
vacant space is generally termed a quay, and is destined for the reception of goods and merchandize imported or to be exported. These
quays are of various. dimensions, regulated in seaports by commercial operations and convenience, and in those situated on rivers, both
by the above considerations, and by that of the encroachments which
the rivers may make on their banks.
2. Nevertheless, the' governithelit, or municipal, authorities of
.those places, frequently permit buildings, intended for.pqrposes of
public or private convenience, such as market-houses." fountains,
baths, coffee-houses, &c., &c., to be erected. 6n part.of those quays.
3. Towns in the French colonies have never-been' incorporated,
like those of the United States ; they are founded in virtue of orders
emanating from .the government, or from the minister of the marine,
and transmitted to the governors of the colonies.; and their administration was confided to intendants, who had authority to enact.the
necessary police regulations.
4. The governors- of colonies, on receiving, these instructions,
issued- their orders to the chief eigineer of the colony, or, in default
of such officers, toasurveyor to draft a plan of thp projected towu. '
This engineer, or surveyor, drafted the .plan and signed it, with mention of the place and day, month and year, when it was completed.
This plan, thus signed and dated, was delivered over to me governor,

JANUARY TERM 1836.

667

(New Orleans v. The United States.]

and lots and squares were granted or sold out -to individuals, with
reference to it.
5. The chief engineer was an officer of the royal corps.of engineers, and performed the duties both of military and civil engineer.
6. For a number of years before the revolution, there has existed
in France, an office attached to the navy department, in which all
manuscript plans and maps of the French colonies, or their cities,
forts, fortifications, &c. were deposited.
7. All the land on the banks of the Mississippi, in Lower Louisiant,is alruvial. This river is subject to annual'and periodical rises,
and unless its waters. were confined within the channel by strong
embankment, .they would overflow all the adjoining land until they
fell and retired within thebed of the river; that is to say, during
about five or six-months in.each year. But for these dykes, or levees
as they are here called, the construction and maintenance of which
cost the .inhabitants, who are; and have .always been, liable to the
performance of this duty, a great deal of. moiiey and labour, the
whole country bordering on this part of the Mississilpi, would be
uninhabitable during the spring and summer.
.8.. During this.rise, the Mississippi is.continually effecting changes
in its-banks; it undermines them in the bends, and carrying off tho
detaches, deposits it on the points; so that in many
earth"which .it
parts of. these, bends,- as soon as -the waters fall and return .to their
accustomed bed, the land on-the margin being deprived of support,
gives.'way, falls into the stream, disappears, and is carried down by
•the current until it -is united to the bank at some' lower part of the
river.
9. For these reasons, it is an almost universal usage among persons dwelling on the banks, of the river, to build their houses at a
sufficient distance from its margin, to allow space for the construction of new levees, and to furnish new public roads, without being
..Compelled to remove their houses and other buildings whenever the
leveds and roads are carried off by the stream.
10.-.Under the French and Spanish governments, the vacant space
between the first row of buildings and themargin of the Mississippi,
always.existed; it never.was divided .into. squares and lots. The
streets of the city have never been -laid off, or continued from said
.row of houses to the river. It.was only in 1818, that the corporation caused the said streets to be prolonged as far as the Levee.
11. Under the Spanish government there was, on this vacant
space, near the river, a wooden market-house, constructed by the

SUPREME COURT.
[New Orleans v. The United States.]

cabildo, (council) between St Anne and Dumaine streets.
building was demolished by the corporation, and the present markethouse constructed on the same spot.
There was, also, on this square, and adjolining' to the Levee, between Dumaine and St- Philip streets, a wooden building, belonging
to Mr Arnaud Magnon, who had erected it In virtue of an authorization from the Spanish governor. This same Magnon had, with
the permission of the cabildo, built, near the same spot, and lower
down than his, house, between.the river and the Levee, and on an
alluviori then recently formed, a large shed, or scaffold, which he
used as a workshop, he being a ship-builder.
There were, also, on this part of the bank, at the foot of the Levee,
in front of the public square, several small wooden cabbins, which
the cabildo had permitted individuals to erect there, after the fire of
1798, who were subject to the payment of a small annual rent, for
the benefit of indigent orphan children. These huts were destroyed
after the cession of Louisiana to the United States, and at the instance of the corporation.
There were, also, on this vacantground,.under the Spanish government, 1st, a wooden building, between customhouse and Bienville
streets, which was used. as a customhouse ; 2d, a large', storehouse,
also of wood, near -the said customhouse, in which the tobacco (of
.which the government, had a monopoly) was.stored. This storehouse did not exist at the time the. United States took possession of
the country. The customhouse, which :was in-a very bad condition, was abandoned at that time, and the United States customhouse was established, at the time of the cession, in a small building situated on a portion of the ground occupied by the old royal
storehouses, between Dumaine and St Philip streets.
12. Before the cession of this country to the United. States, this.
vacant qpace, throughout the whole extent of the front of the city,
was used by the public. It was, at that time, covered with grass
and weeds, and the horses and cattle of citizens were sent to pasture
upon it. Since the cession, and since the increase of the commercial business of the city, the vegetation has disappeared, but the inhabitants of the city have, particularly since the cession, continued
to use the greater portion of this space for the transportation, lading,.
and unlading of goods, and as a place of deposit for. materials, &c.
The streets, running at right angles to the river, were prolonged by
the corporation as far as the Levee, and this prolongation was executed and kept up at their expense. In 1818, they made, and have

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[New Orleans v. The United States.]

since kept in -repair, at their own -expense, a piew street, or high
road, on that large open space at the foot of the Levee, and throughout its whole extent.
13. Under the Spanish government the inhabitants possessed the
commons all around the city; a part.of which they appropriated to
various uses. Governor Carondelet, at the request of the cabildo,
caused a plan of it to be prepared by the surveyor-gene'ral, Laveau
Trudeau, which was not finished until the year 1798 ; a copy of
which plan is annexed-to the proceedings in this cause.
14. The levee in front of the city has always been made and kept
in repair by the iohabitants of New Orleans. In 1805, this levee.
was generally, throughout its whole extent, three and a half feet
high, from -fifteen to twenty feet broad at top, and widening towards
the basis.
15. Before the year 1815, this levee was undermined, in iany
places by the river, and threatened to fall in. In order 'to prevent
this accident, which would have compelled th" corporation to make
a new one nearer the houses, and consequently on the vacant space,
they caused, at their own expense, carpenter's work, to a large
amount, to be done in front of the levee ; by means of which it was
put in the strong and.solid state in which it now is. The point at
which this work was -most required, and where most of it was performed, was between St Louis and Toulouse streets, where the
soil on which the levee rested was so much undermined by the current, that the water sprung up through it in large quantities, and
the owners of the houses in that quarter feared that their foundations would give way. The works above mentioned arrested the
progress of a danger which was so justly apprehended.
16. Since the taking. possession 0f Louisiana by the United States,
an alluvion has been, and is still continually forming in the river
Mississippi, in front of the city of New Orleans; particularly towards
the upper end and lower extremities of the city. These alluvial
formations are exhibited, together with -the streets made in 1818, in
the plans draughted by Joseph Pelie, city survevor; and which are
annexed to th.e record.
17. In econseqnep'e of works ordered by,.and performed at the
expense of .the corporation, the levee in front of the city is now, in
the upper part of the city, one hundred and forty feet wide ; in the
centre of the city from sixty-six to eig hty feet wide. These augmentations have been made without encroaching on the vacant space

670

SUPREME COURT.
[New Orleans v. The United States.]

between the street opened in .1818 and the water's edge, on the alluvial soil since formed on the outside of the levee.
18. Parts of this vacant space might be disposed of to individuals
without at all interfering with'the public use of it, or with the load-

ing 9r unloading eo goods, the levee, as it now is, being amply sufficient for all these purposes.
19.. There.are two copies of plans of the city annexed to the rcord ; the one made in 1724 by Mr De Panger, and signed by him;.
the other made in, 1.728 by Mr Nicholas Broutin ; on both of which
the vacant space, the subject of the present controversy, is designated
by the name of quay. The former of these plans is not authenticated ;"the latter is authenticated, according. to all the forms required
in Fiance for the authentication of copies of. artq or instruments in
foreign countries. These two copies of plans are taken from copies
deposited among the archives of the city since the end of the year
1819 ; and which Moreau Lislet, Esq. counsellor at law for the corporation,,had caused tote.obtained from the office of plans and maps
of the French colonies attached to the department of the navy, and
of-French colonies. Nicholas Broutin was the.engineer of the king
of France in Louisiana.
20. Authentic copies of various instruments, by which lots situated
in front of the city were granted or soldi under the French governinent, before the cession to Spain, and in which'they are designated
as'situated' on the quay, or fronting the quay.
21. A plan which is found -in. the work of Per6 Charlevoix, the
Jesuit, entitled ".History of New France, with the historical-journal
of a voyage, undertaken by order of. the king, in North America,"
published at Paris in the year 1724, in three-volumes, in quarto, vol.
2, p. 423; in which also, the vacant space, the subject of the present
controVersy, is denominated a.quay.
22, The laws of France, and of itsl colonies, prevailed in Loiqisiana from the first settlement of the -colony until the 25th, of November of the year 1769; when Alexander O'Reilly, captain-general,
-invested with.full powers for that purpose by.the king of Spain,
abolished them, and substituted in their stead the laws of Spain;
which were in forcer at the. time this suit was instituted.
23. Three works, entitled "Histoire de St Dominique, par Moreau de St Mary," in two volumes, in quarto; ,Histoire de .a
Nouvelle France, par. le Pere Charlevoix," three volumes, in quarto;
and "History- of Louisiana, by Francois Xavier. Martin." in Lwo

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[New Orleans v. The United States.]

volumes, in octavo, are admitted to be works of accuracy and authenticity, 9n the subjects of which they treat; and may be referred to
as .avidence in this cause.
The case was argued by Mr Webster, and by Mr Livingston, for
the appellants; and by.Mr Butler, attorney-general., foi. the United
States.
A printed argument, prepared by the counsel for the appellants in
New Oleans, was also laid before the court.
The appellants insisted:
I, Upon the original plans of the city; as made by the king of
France at its foundation in thv- years 1724 and 1728 ; from Which it
appears that tb' space of ground in question, to its whole extent,
was designated as quays or wharves.
2. The concurrence in this fact-of every plan of the city now extant having any semblance of authority, as that of Charlevoix's
History, and the absence of any document that giVes a contrary,
or that does not give this destination to it.
3. The. uninterrupted possession and enjoyment of the land, as
common; by the inhabitants of the city, from the yerirs 1724 -and
1728 up to the commencement of this uit.
4. That all the lots and squares of the city have been sold or
granted in reference to the plans before mentioned. This fact, admitted in clear and unqualified terms, might be considered as decisive of the case
5. The ufiiversal understanding of the highest officers of - the
French government in the colony, anid the notaries and persons. engaged in the purchase and transfer of property, as exhibited in the
various acts and documents, found in the record, and the repeated
acts of the Cabildo or city council, exercising ownership and jurisdiction over the land.
6. That the streets of the city were never continued through this
space to the river until the year 1818, when it was done by the corporation. It continued entirely vacant for public use as commons of
the city.
Mr Webster, for the appellants.
•The United States claim in this case the exclusive right over the
property described in the proceedings, by virtue of their sovereignty;

SUPREME COURT.
[New Orleans v. The United States.]

and, as succeeding to the aovereiin rights of the kings of Sljain and
'of France, over the territory of Louisiana, before the. treaty.of- cession. They claim this as ungranted or vacant land; .and as such
that it passed to the United States by the treaty. While they do not
deny that it may be subject to certA in uses by the inhabitants of the
.city of New .Orleans; they do deny that these uses have given any
right of property in the soil, or authorized any interference with it.
so as to change or affect it in any manner.
This.is opposed by the appellants. They assert his property to
be exclusively theirs; and that it was the property of'the corpora-'tionofNew Orleans, before the United States acquiid the territory
of New.Orleans. That it was theirs by its having been .a part of
the city of New Orleans, from the first establishment of the same, by
dedication; when the.place. Was-first laid out by those who were proprietors of the whole soil : by possession ever since : and that if it
had become enlarged by the addition of alluvion deposits, the additions, under the.laws of France and of Spain, before the cession, and
-by the law of the United States, since. the treaty, are the property of
the corporation..
The position of New. Orleans, and the peculiar character of. the
river Mississippi, make such additions from alluvion -deposits frequent.
and extensive. The sinking of a frame of lumber, at the expense
of the inhabitants of New Orleans, at a particular. place in the river,
opposite to the city,-for'the protection of the ground, has contributed
to the rapid and extensive enlargement of the open space in front of
the city.. This'enlargement has placed the levee, used for the purposes of trade, further in advance' of the city ;. and has. left the
ground, now in controversy, in such. a situation as not to be required
for the uses of commerce. The corporation: of New Orleans, therefore, proposed' to sell and dispose of it, to be occupied and iniproved
by those who'may desire to purchase it. So fully is it manifested
that for commercial or any other public :purposes large portions of
the property are no longer required; that it has, since the comiencemerit of this shit, been sold by agieement between the United States.
and the corporation ; and the proceeds of th6 sale, nearly one million of dollars, may 'belong to the successful party in this, appeal.
But the question to be settled in the case before the court, on the
proceedings in the district court of Louisiana, is not whether the cor.
poration of New Orleans has a right to use the property. It is tie
question,-whetherby the treaty of cession, the United State acquired

JANUARY TERM 1836.

673

[New Orleans v. The United States.]

a right to the same, as having had transferred to them the sovereign
rights of Spain, and afterwards of France over the territory. This
is the right asserted by the petitioner, and put in issue by the answers
and pleas.
The United States contend, that if the right of dominion did remain in the sovereigns of Spain and France, during the time the
country was held by them, the property having been especially dedicated to public uses: by the cession the same became vested in the
sovereignty of the United States, subject to those uses; and the use,
not destroying or affecting the right of the United States to the land,
passed, by the act of congress incorporating the city of New Orleans,
to the corporation.
The statement of facts on the part of the corporation, makes a
complete case for them. The land claimed by the United States
appears to have been designated for the use of the city ever since it
was founded. - The plans referred to show that there was always an
open space fronting on the river, and the uses of it were only such
as Were consistent with the public use. A customhouse ; a parade
ground for the military ; barracks for the soldiers, were erected upon
it. These were permitted ; but they did not destroy the title of the
citizens to it, nor did such uses convert it into public domain. The
easements thus permitted might have been revoked. It is stated
that a markethouse, erected of wood, was taken down by the corporation, and replaced by one of brick.
The city of New Orleans was bound to Support the exterior levee,
and this has always beern done at the expense of the inhabitants.
This expense has alw'ays been considerable. The United States
have never been called upon to do this.
All the facts of the case show that the situation of the streets of
New Orle .ns ; the general conformity of the plan to the plans of
other French cities ; and the principles of the civil law, which apply
in such cases, have full force in the present question.
In the 19th division of the statement of facts it appears that in
1724 and 1728 plans of the city were made, and on both of which
the ground now claimed by the United States is designated as quays.
One of these plans, that of 1728, has been recently obtained from
France. It shows such a dedication to public uses as brings the case
within all the principles established by this court in the Cincinnati
case, and in the Pittsburgh case, reported in 6 Peters's Rep. The
binding force of such plans is shown in 1 Starkle on Evidence 169.
VOL. x.-4 K

SUPREME COURT.
[New Orleans v. The United States.]

The ownership of property may be public, and the use private.
The decision of this court in the case of the Dartmouth College,
established this. If it should be decided that the United States might
have a customhouse on this ground, or a parade ground ; this will
not sanction a claim to the property, or a right to sell it for the benefit
of the United States. Have the United States a right to divert the
property'from the use for which it was dedicated, to enrich their
treasury ?
It appears that the dedicationof land to public uses is an estoppel
of all subsequent claim to it, as well by the civil law as by the common law of England. French Pandects, art. 15, 28; 3 Martin's
Rep. 296, 303, 304 ; 11 Martin's Rep. 660.
The sovereignty of Spain over this property existed before the
cession, for the sole purpose of enforcing the uses to which it was
appropriated. This right, and the obligations imposed upon it, became vested in the state of Louisiana, and did not continue in the
United States after the state was formed. Acquiesced in by the
United States, under the treaty, in the first instance ; it necessarily
afterwards passed to the state. The United States cannot now
enforce this use, and could not take the quay and dispose of it; and
unless this can be done, there is nothing to support this action. The
preservation and the enforcement of the'use must be by the state
government. By the act of congress incorporating the city of.New
Orleans, all the use of the property became vested in the city.
The petition presented to the district court does not recognise any
trust. It asserts a full and sovereign right to the whole land ; and
if this court shall confirm the decree of the inferior court, the .United
States will hold it discharged from all trusts.
Mr Butler, attorney-general, for the United States.
The nature and object of the suit have been misapprehended by
the opening counsel. It is not a suit in equity. The suit was'commenced by. petition -and not by bill; process of subpoena was not
prayed ; nor were any of the proceedings in the cause on the equity
side of the court.
The object of the ;uit was to prevent the city corporatiop from
selling the premises in question ; and not, as the counsel supposed, to
recover possession. The United States were themelves in possession;.,
and the action brought by them (which was in many respects analogous to an iijunction bill) is well known to ihe civil law as a

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[New Orleans v. The United States.]

prohibitory interdict; the nature and purpose of which are well explained in Livingston's answer to Mr Jefferson in the case of the
New Orleans Batture. 5 Hall's Am. Law Jour. 270, 271, 272, 273.
The learned counsel for the city is also mistaken in supposing,
that in order to maintain the decree appealed from, the United States
.must show that they have an absolute title to the lands in dispute,
freed from any servitude or public use ; such a title as to authorize
the government to sell these lands,: and to apply the proceeds at pleasure. The particular nature of their title was not stated in the petition. The averments were, no doubt broad enough to cover the
absolute ownership of the premises; and in one of the aspects in
which he should present the case, he would endedvour to show that
the United States were the-absolute owners; but it did not necessarily require such a title to maintain the petition. On the contrary,
the averments contained in it would be sufficiently satisfied, and the
plaintiffs would be entitled to the relief sought, if it were shown,
either 1st. That the United States held the absolute ownership ; or,
2d. 'That they held the title to the-soil though charged with a servitude for the benefit of the inhabitants of the city, or of the public.
generally; or 3d. That the United States were entitled to a servitude in the lands, the title to the soil being in the city corporation,
because in either of these three cases the attempt of the city to dispose of the lands in absolute ownership to individuals, without the
consent of the United States, was an encroachment on their rights.
The prohibitory interdict was an appropriate remedy for either of
these three cases; and if it should appear that either had been made
out, then the injunction by which the city was prohibited from selling these lands as private property, for its own exclusive benefit, wes
properly made perpetual.
The decree of the court below does not specify the particularground on which it proceeded; and no explanatory opinion was delivered by the judge. If it can be shown that the United States
have any such title in the soil, or to the use of the premises, as to
make it inequitable for the city to proceed in its attempt to sell, then
the decree must-be affirmed. If this court should-be of opinion that
only a qualified title is shown by the United States, it could say so
in its decree of affirmance; and thus protect the rights of all other
parties.. The real question in the case, therefore, is, have the United
States such right in the soil or to the use of the premises, as to en-

676

SUPREME COURT.
[New Orleans v: The United States.]

title them to a decree prohibiting the absolute sale by the city corporation 1
In support of the affirmative of this qpestion, it is contended:
1. That the corporation of New Orleans has no title whatever to
the soil, nor to the use of the vacant lands in dispute ; but that under
the treaty of cession of 1803, the United States became, and yet areabsolutely entitled to the same.
Although it is sufficient for the plaintiffs, in order to retain their
injunction and decree, to show that they have a qualified interest in
the soil or in the use ; yet it is obvious, that to entitle the city corporation to proceed with the proposed sales, it must show a complete
title free from any public use. In this view of the case, the question
of title becomes a material one ; and it is desirable, on many accounts, that it should be decided in the present suit.
That the corporation has no title to the soil nor to the use of the
premises in question, was expressly decided in 1833 by the supreme
court of the state of Louisiana, in the case of D'Armas and Cucullu
v. The Mayor, &c. of New Orleans; being the same case subser
quetly brought by writ of error before this court, and dismissed for
want of jurisdiction. 9 Peters 224. The plaintiffs, as grantees of
the heirs of one Bertrand, claimed a lot included within the original
limits of the quay, granted by letters patent to those heirs, pursuant
to the act of congress confirming their claim, which was founded on
the entry and possession' of Bertrand in 1788, under a permission
given by the Spanish governor. The corporation of New Orleans having asserted a claim to the lot as part of the quay,
Cucullu and D'Armas instituted a suit in one (f the district courts
of the state of Louisiana, for the purpose of establishing their title
under the United States, and the district court decreed in their favour,
which decree was affirmed, on appeal, by the supreme court. The
corporation contended : first, that the whole vacant space was their
property; and secondly, that it had been irrevocably destined to
public purposes when the town was established, and thereby for ever
rendered inalienable even by the sovereign. On the last point the
judges differed, chief justice Martin holding in the affirmative, but
being overruled by the other judges. On the question of title in
the corporation, the judges were unanimous. Judge Porter examined the point at large, and judge Matthews concurred with him ;
and though chief justice Martin dissented from the judgment ; he

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[New Orleans v. The United States.]

did not controvert the reasoning of judge Porter in this respect. It
is shown by judge Porter, that. according to the French law a city,
or othercommuhity, can only acquire a title to land, or to the" use of
land, by letters patent from the king. He also shows, that according to the Spanish law, cities and other communities could not acquire title to the soil except by grant from the crown ; though they
might acquire title to the public use of land by grant, purchase or
prescription.
The opinions of judges Porter and Matthews, in this case, notice
all the prominent facts now relied on by the city, and answer almost
every suggestion in the openingargument. Judge Porter shows
that the case is distinguishable from that of the City of Cincinnati v.
While, 6 Peters 431, by the circumstance that the lands.were not
set apart for public use by a private individual, but by the sovereign
and more especially because the questions were to be decided, not
by the common law, but by the laws of France and Spain, which
were in force prior to the cession.
It had been affirmed in the opening argument, that the United
States had no greater or other power over the quays, than they had
over the streets; and the counsel for the United States had been
challenged'to show a distinction between the two cases This call
had been answered by judge Porter, in the following words : "the
streets of a town are no doubt what is denominated in our law, public places, and they are protected from change and alienation, by all
the rules which apply to things of this description. But the power
of the 'grantor over them, even if he should be the king, is, in ny,
opinion, much more limited, than that he possesses'over other things
of the same kind. So long as the town remains unincorporated, and
he retains the power of regulating its police and government, by
laws and ordinances, he may modify, abridge or enlarge the streets,
but he cannot deprive, the inlhabitants of the use of them ; and for
an obvious reason. Streets are indispensable to the enjoyment of
urban property. Without them a town could scarcely be said to
exist; the inhabitants of it would be as prisoners in their own houses.
It may, therefore, be readidy admited, that the sovereign power of
no country, could deprive the owners and occupants of lote and
houses, of things indisptnsable to the use and enjoyment of th6 property sold or conceded; without violating the plainest dictates of
justice, and the general principles of law, applicable to all other

SUPREME COURT.
(New Orleans v The United States.]

cases of the same kind. But its inability to do so would not profrom their being destined to public purposes ; but because, withceed
out them,
the property granted could not be enjoyed. Just as,
on tht
same principle, an individual wbogranted a portion of his land, which!
could not be reached but by passing over other portions of it, would
be corsidered as having conceded to the grantee, the right of way
over Lhe part retained.' It is awell settled principle, that whenever
an itidividual or tie law giveth any thing, there is impliedly given,
at the same time, whatsoever is necessary to its enjoyment. The
liniftation, therefore, contended *foi on the po\ver of the sovereign
over streets, may be well conceded to the whole extent pressed in
argument, witliout at all affecting his authority, or his rights over
vacant.ground not proved to be necessary to the use of private property."
The same opinion shows also, that even admitting that the vacant
space in question, had really been dedicated to public use, by the
king of.France, that such dedicatio6n was not irrevocable, nor the
land rendered inalienable ; but on 'the contrary,. the dedication
might be revoked and the land alienated by the sovereign.
Judg6 P6rter also arrives at the same conclusion, as to the want of
title in the city, on, other grounds. He shows that, unless words
can make or change things, no part of the ground left between the
city and the river, can be regarded as a quay, save that which was
prepared for the reception and discharge of vessels, by the creation of
the levee or artificial embankment. And admitting that this space
ivas really a quay, he then argues, that only so much of it as is
actually necessary to the 'loading and unloading of vessels, isproperly to be regarded as public.
Thus far judge Porter' had chiefly considered the case on the law
of France. He then examines the law of Spain, which brings him
to a result equally fatal to the claims of the city.
Judge Matthews, who concurred in this opiniofi, supported some
of the points above referred to-, by additional arguments and authorities. This decision, though not 6bligatory on this court, is entitled
to thegre'atest respect. The case turned on the French and Spanish laws,.wvhh w-hich this court is not particularly conversant. The
state judges were familiar with those systems, and, as they must-,
no doubt, have been .isposed to incline. Qn all doubtful questions, in
favour of the city, their dectton may be r6garded as of the highest
"Lat the same decisionizeffect,
auLhority. .It
should also be zme, ;'in

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[New Orleans v. The United States.]

though the cases were different in their circumstances, had been
previously made by the supreme court of Louisiana, in the cases of
the grants to Mentzinger and Liotaud, whose claimus before the commissioners are also among the proofs in this cause. 3 Martin 296;
Chabot v. Blanc, 5 Martin.
Independently of the decisions of the local tribunals, it is submitted, that on the facts stated in the record, it. is apparent that the
city has no title. No law of France or Spain, nor ny grant from
either, nor any documentary evidence of any kind,. is introduced or
appealed to by the city, for the purpose of showing that the ground
in c6ntroversy had ever been expressly granted to the city. The
right of property depends on the state of the title in October 1800,
when the country was retroceded by Spain to France ; and in the
absence of any written declaratiori of the right to this property,
the presumption of law is, that it belonged, at that time, to the
sovereign, as a part of the national domain. The circumstances
appealed to by the other side, for the purpose of overcoming this presumption, and showing title in the city, must be referred to the laws
by which the territory was governed prior to 1800 ; that is to say,
the laws of France, from the settlement of the county, until 1769,
when the Spanish laws were put in force, and the latter from that
time.
The counsel for the city, in the pamphlet banded to the court as
a part of the opening, whilst they admitted that the city had never
received a grant from the French crown, yet contended, that by the
designation ofthe premises on the plans of the city as a quay, and
by the possession and enjoyment set forth in the case, the land was
as completely separated from the domain, and as clearly vested in
the inhabitants of the city, as if there had been a formal grant from
the French crown. -In answer to this, the attorney-general contended, that the most that could possibly be made of the designation on
the plans, and the other facts relied on by the city, was, that the
vacant space in question had been dedicated to public uses-they
did not even begin to show a title in the corporation. By the.French
law, as it existed at the time the city was laid out, arid from that
time until the cession to Spain, quays and other public places in
cities, belonged to the crown, as a part of the public domain. Domat's Public Laws, book 1, tit. 6, sec. 1, art. 7 ; Encyc. Math. Juirisprudence, art. Domaine.
As to the cxtracts from the Partidus and other Spanish laws, they

SUPREME COURT.
[New Orleans v. The United States.]

only show that cities might, by the law of Spain, hold commons and
other public places ; they do not prove that cities, under that law,
could hold the absolute titles in those places, nor any title whatever
in the soil; and, above all, they'plive nothing as to this particular
case.
The law as to increases of land formed by alluvion, was, no doubt,
correctly stated, by the opening counsel; but it could not help the
city in the present case. The increase, by alluvion, was on the outer
side of the levee, which had been greatly widened by it; .whereas,
the- ground now in controversy, is wholly on the inner side. Besides, the increase by alluvion belongs to the owners of the soil to
which it is added ; and as the city corporation has been shown not
to be the owners of the soil, they have no title to the increase, not
even to the use of it. -Livingston in 5 Hall's.Law Journal, p. 120,
150, 172, 188. Nor is there any hardship in this; because the levee
has been widened by ievenues granted to the city by the crowns of
France and Spain.
Title by prescription is also set up. But by the French law there
can be no title by prescription against the crown, in any case, unless
it be immenmorial. Alard v. Lobau, 3 Martin, New Series, 293. And
such things as are destined to common or public use, such as banks of
rivers, &c. cannot be acquired by prescription. Domat's Civil Law,
b. 3, tit. 7, sec. 5, art. 2. And though, by the Spanish law, cities
and towns may acquire, by prescription, a title to the use of land for
commons and other ptblic plices, they cannot acquire an absolute
title in that way. But there is no such long continued and uninterrupted possession here, as is required by the Spanish law, to constitute a title by prescription. .(For the rules of the Spanish law on
this subject, see Institutes of the Laws of Sj)ain, quoted in White's
Compilation, p. 70.)
The opening counsel had contended, that if the right of dominion,
Ihe title, did really remain in the sovereigns of Frarnce and Spain,
whilst they owned the country, yet that the title was held by them
subject to. public uses; and that, by the cession to the United States,
.and by the incorporationof the city of New Orleans, by the territorial, legislature, under the authority of the United States, the title
and dominion, subject to such public use, becamne vested in the city
corpofation. The answer to this argument will be fbund in the act
of incorporation itself. It gave the corporation a capacity to acquire
lends according to our law of corporations; and it vested in thenm

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[New Orleans v. The United States.]

all the estates, whether real or personal, which theretofore belonged
to the city of New Orleans, or were held for its use by the cabildo,
under the Spanish government, or the municipality, after the transfer of the province to France, and which had not been legally alienated, or lost or barred; but it gave to the corporation no new title
to the land in question. The territorial legislature, indeed, had no
power to grant such a title. The act of the 26th March 1804, which
organized the territorial government, expressly declared that the.
governor and legislative council should have no power over the primary disposal of the soil. The act of incorporation, therefore, merely
confirmed to the new corporation the old'title, and we are, therefore,.
necessarily turned over to the former question.
The attorney-general next contended, that the absolute title to the
premises in dispute had been vested in the United States by the
treaty of cession of 1803. This was the conclusion of a majority of
the court in the case of D , Armas and Cucullu v. The City of New
Orleans, before cited ; and there are in the present record some evidences of title not presented in that case ; aind various arguments
applicable to this point, not noticed in the opinions of Judges Porter
and Matthews, may also be suggested. Title to land in Louisiana,
as well as in other parts of this continent, was founded on discovery.
Johnson & Graham v. M'Intosh, 8 Wheat. 593. The whole soil,
subject only to the right of Indian occupancy, was treated as a part
of the national domain. In September 1712, Louis XIV. granted
to Anthony 'Crozat the commerce of Louisiana for fifteen years, with
the mines, &c. in perpetuity. I Martin's History of Louisiana 178.
White's Compilation 159. This grant extended the edicts and ordinances of the realm, and the customs of Paris, to Louisiana. In
August 1717 Crozat surrendered his grant to the crown, and in the
same year the commerce and government of Louisiana were granted
to the Western Company for twenty-five years. The lands of the
territory were also granted them in. perpetuity. I Martin 198, 199.
The site of New Orleans was selected in 1-718 by Bienville, who had
been commissioned as governor by the Western Company. 1 Martin 204, 214. The designation of the quay, and the general plan of
the city, was made under the authority of the.Western Company.
But though that company held the title in all these- lands at that
time, this does not alter the case. .They represented the sovereign,
not only in their capacity to make grants.of land, but also in the
In designating'the quay, they acted in the
regulation of commerce
VOL. X -

SUPREME COURT.
[New Orleans v. The United States.]

latter character,. as well as in the former: and the case must therefore stand on precisely the same ground as if the city had been laid
out by the crown, at a time when the whole title was in it. The
Western Company surrendered their grant to the king in January
1732 (1 Martin 287), and the French crown, was thus re-invested
with its original title, and all lands not previously granted were reunited to the public domain, and so continued until 1769; when the
secret treaty made in 1763, by which Louisiana was ceded to Spain,
was promulgated, and the.territory delivered to the Spanish authorities. I Martin 329; 2 Martin 2. The premises in question having
never been granted to the city, and being a part of the public domain
at.the time of this treaty, passed by it to the crown of Spain, by
which it was held as a part of the domain belonging to that crown,
until 1803, when the treaty of retrocession, made at St Ildefonso on
the 1st October 1800, by which Spain ceded Louisiana to the French
republic, was carried into effect..' 2 Martin r82. The title to these
premises being in the king of Spain, and not in the city of New Orleans, at the time of the execution of the treaty of St Ildefonso, it
passed to the sovereign of France as a part of the national domain ;
and under that treaty the French republic acquired,, to use the language of their cession to us, "an incontestable title to the domain,
and to the possession of the said territory.", The title thus acquired
by France, together with the sovereignrtyof the country, passed, by
the treaty of cession of 1803, to the United States. The second
article of this treaty declares, that in-the cession are ineluded "the
adjacent islands belonging to Louisiana, all public lots and squares,
vacant lands, and. all public buildings, fortifications, barracks, and
other edifices, which are not private property." This enumeration
was probably unnecessary, but seems to have been inserted from
greater caution, and as if with a view to this very question. It is
evident, from the langu(tge of this-article,, that public lots and squares
in cities were not regarded as the-property of the cities, but as the
property, of the crown; and. as there were no such public lots and
squares within the territory of Louisiana, except in the. cities of New
Orleans and Natchez, public places in those cities must have been
specially intended by the framers of the article. The vacant space
now in controversy, was a public lot or square within the meaning
of the.treaty; and as it has been decided by the highestcourt of the
state of Louisiana not to be the property of the city, it necessarily
passed to the United States.

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[New Orleans v. The United States.]

It was contended in the opening, by'the learned counsel for the
city, that even admitting that the sovereigns of France and Spain
had the title to,.and the control of these premises, and that the same
passed to the United States by the treaty, it did not necessarily follow, that the United States yet retain such title and control ; and it
was argued, that on the creation of the state of Louisiana, that state
became invested with all the title and control of the former sovereigns. This argument was attempted to be supported by the third
article of the treaty of cession, and the act admitting Louisiana into
the union; and it wao said, that if such was not the case, the inhabitants of the ceded territory would not possess all the rights and
advantages of citizens of other states; nor the state be placed on an
equal footing with Ihe other states. But the third article of the
treaty relates only to the rights which are to be enjoyed by individuals ; and the act of congress of the 26th of February 1811, au.thorizing the formation of a state government, required as a condition,, that the people of the proposed state should for ever disclaim
all right or title to the waste or unappropriated lands within the
territory; and that the same should be and remain Ot the sole and
entire disposition of the United States. This condition was acknowledged in the state constitution, and reiterated in the'act of the.8th
of April 1812, by which the state was admitted into the union.
The ownership of the premises by the crowns of France and Spain
as a part of the public domain, and the consequent title of the United
States, are supported by many acts of ownership, and by frequent
recognitions of the city authorities ; the most important of which
are enumerated in the agreed statement.of the facts proved, and of
evidence offered by the plaintiffs. It was said by the opening counsel, that these were not evidences of title, but only evidences of the
-exercise of a claim of title, and of acquiescence by the city authorities. That remark was a mere solecism ; for what is evidince of
the exercise of ownership, especially when acquiesced in by the adverse party, but evidence of title ? Proofs of this sort are the very
highest evidence of title; and they, therefore, deserve the. particular
attention of the court. In the present case, the acts of ownership on
the part of the crown, and of acquiescence on the part of the city
authorities, commence from a very early date.
Among the proofs produced by the corporation, are the papers relating to fourteen sales, and other documents ; which were introduced to prove that the houses in the front row of the city were

SUPREME COURT.
[New Orleans v. The United States.]

described as bounded in front by the quay ; and, also, to show that
the city lots extended no further. Among these sales there are
several of lots on the quay; not bounded by the quay : but, as would
seem from the descriptions, actually situated on it, and forming part
thereof. The grant to Broutin is for a lot "on the wharf," to be
held by him and his heirs and assigns as his own property; "subject to the services which may be imposed by his majesty by reason
of his domain :" and on certain conditions to be performed by him,
"under the penalty of the said lot being re-united to
his majesty's
domain."
Barracks were erected on the premises by the French government
before the year 1757; and the troops were frequently exercised thereon.
The commercial use of the quay was also under the authority, and for
the benefit of the crown, or those who represerited it, as contradistinguished from the city. From 1769 to 1803, there are various
acts of ownership on the part of the Spanish -crown ; most of which
also involve a recognition by the city authorities of the title of the
crown. The barracks erected by the French government, and the
use of the premises as a parade ground, were continued. On the
22d of February 1770, governor O'Reilly, acting in the name, and
with the authority of the king, granted to the city, among other
things, a tonnage duty to be paid by vessels and boats coming to the
city, to be appropriated to the reparation of the levee. Several imperfect grants, and two complete. titles were also made by the Spanish governor, as the representative of the crown, between 1788 and
1803, of portions'of the quay; which grants, after the cession, were
confirmed by acts of congress. [The attorney-general here reviewed
the cases of Magnon, Chess6, Bertrand, Urtubuise, Mentzinger, and
Liotaud ; and laid great stress on the grants by the Baron de Carondelet to the two latter ; and on the allegations in their grants,-that
the lots granted were part of the royal .ands, &c. As to Magnon's
case, he insisted, that the opinion of the attorney-generalmerely spoke
of the proposed grant as a thing that might be disagreeable to the'
city council : but not as an act that would violate their rights.] In
three of these cases (those of Ment?inger, Bertrand and Liotaud) the
.itle thus derived from the United States was held valid by The suprenpe
court of Louisiana. Prior to 1793, the. Spanish government erected
a customhouse and a tobacco warehouse on the premises; the former
of which existed at the' period of the cession to the United States,
and has been since kept up by them.

JA NUARY TERM 1836.

685

(New Orleans v. The United States.)

The use -thus made by the governments of France and Spain, was
all that the nature of the subject and the circumstances of the times
required or admitted ; and the facts that some small buildings were
erected by the city authorities during this period, and that the inhabitants of the city sometimes used it as a common, are not inconsistent with the title and ownership of the crown. There is no instance,
from the laying out of the city to the present-day, until the attempt
which led to the present suit, -of any pretence on the part of the city
authorities that they-were capable of granting these lands; and
until the late cases in the state courts, they never alleged that the
crowns of France and Spain before the cession,, and the United States
since, had not the power to make such grants.
The acts of the parties after 1769, show beyond controversy, that
in the judgment of all the Spanish authorities, the land in question
belonged to the crown, and not to the city. And even were it proved,
(which is not admitted) that according to the French lawi the ground
between the lots appropriated as private property, and the water,
was all called quay, and was the property of the city authorities;
yet if the government of Spain, after the country passed under that
jurisdietion, deprived the city of this property,-and held and used it
as the property of the Spanish crown, this court will not now revise .the decision of the Spanish tribunals, and inquire whether the
title to this ground was justly or unjustly taken from the city authorities and vested ie the crown. But they will recognize and support the title as it existed.and was recognized by the proper tribunals
at the time of the cession to the United States. And as it is not
pretended that any change in the title took place between the times
of the cession to France, and the'transfer by France to the United
States, the rights of the United States, and of the corporation, must
be tested by the state of th, title, as understood and maintained by
the Spanish authorities, at the time they ceded the country to
France. For if the property originally belonged. to the corporation,
or municipal authorities,, and was unjustly wrested from them, and
converted to the use of the Spanish government, as public property,
the .courts of the United States will not revise and reverse decisions
which the despotic character of the Spanish government authorized
and sanctioned. Those decisions may have been made in direct
violation of the principles which regulate and protect private property, according to our institutions ; but they are, nevertheless, binding on the -parties affected by them,

SUPREME COURT.
[New.Orleans v. The United.States.]

Since the cession to the United States, and the incorporation of
the city, the former has claimed, with tile acquiescence of the latter,
the full ownership of these premises. In 1B06, the corporation presented, under the act of the 2d of March 1805, to tile register and
commissioner of the eastern land district of the territory of Orleans,
a claim to certain lands in the vicinity Of the city, alleged to have
been granted at the time the city was established, to the inhabitants
of the city, to be used as a comnibn for ever, and prayed for their
.confirmation. This claim seems to have been understood by all parties, as embracing the land now in controversy, as well as other
land. The board rejected the claim as to certain lands occupied for
fortifications, and also as to all "lots and vacant parts of land between the said fortifications and the city, and within and in front of
the city, between Levee street and the river." This decision was
acquiesced in at the time. ; and if the premises in question had been
as clearly embraced in the petition, as they are.in the decree of the
commissioners, the decision would have been concl'usive. It may be
said, that the premises now in dispute were not embraced in those
proceedings ; and if this be so, the fact furnishes strong proof that
at the time the claim was made, the city authorities did not suppose
they had any title to these lands. Had they then claimed any such
title, they would, no doubt, have preferred a claim for the confirmation thereof, under the act of congress of the 2d of March 1805..
In 1812, the city council passed a resolution directing an application to be made to congress, for the grant of a lot on the quay, to be
used for the erection of a fire pump; in which resolution, they expressly, admitted that the vacant space between the river and the
front line of houses, could never be sold or rented to private individuals, 6r disposed of, except for objects of public utility ; and the whole
resolution, and the application made to congress, proceed upon the
admission, that the goveroment of the United States was alone competent to make a grant of any portion of these premises.
Pursuant to this application, congress, by the act of 3d April 1812
(4 Bioren & Duane 400), granted to the corporation of the city of
New Orleans the use and possession of a lot between Levee street
and the high road; with a proviso, that if the same should not be
occupied for tha purposes indicated, within- three years, or should
thereafter cease to be so occupied for the term of three years, the
right and claim of the United States phould remain unimpaired.
The act of the 20th April 1818, vol. 6, p. 346, "authorizing the dis-

JANUARY TERM 1836.

687

[New Orleans v. The United States.]

posal of certain lots of public ground in the city of New Orleans and
town of Mobile," and the act of 30th March 1822, vol. 7, p. 24, supplementary thereto, were both passed at the solicitation of the city
corporation, and both contain similar recognitions of the title of.the
United States. The act of the 28th February 1823, vol. 7, p. 120,
in relation to the lot on which the navy storehouse is situated, and
which is thereby granted to the corporation, admits of the like remark. The act of the 21st April 1806, vol. 4, p. 61, granting to the
corporation of the city of Natchez the right of the United States to
all the land lying between the front street and the Mississippi, on
condition that the premises should neither be cultivated nor occupied
by buildings, but that it should be planted with trees and preserved
as a common, may also be referred to as evidence of the general
understanding, that the title in vacant places of.this sort had, by the
treaty of cession, been vested in the United States.
It is also matter of public history, of which the court will take
judicial notice, that during the pendency of the present writ of error,
the corporation of New Orleans has petitioned congress to grant to
it the very lands now in controversy, and that the -argument of the
cause was delayed for one or two terms, for the express purpose of
enabling the corporation to present this application, and to obtain a
decision thereon.
In accord ance with these admissions, has been the actual conduct
of the parties ever since the cession to the United States. In 1819
the United States erected on the quay a building which is yet occupied by them as a customhouse and courthouse; and they also
caused the same and the adjacent grounds to be enclosed with a
fence; and if they have not- had the exclusive use of the remainder
of the premises in controversy, neither has there been any such use
on the part of the corporation. Under these circumstances the possession follows the legal title, and was therefore in the United States
at the commencement of the suit, as alleged in their Petition.
II. If the corporation of New Orleans has any legal interest in the
premises, it is not such an interest as can authorize the absolute sale
of said premises, in lots, to individuals; because the interest of the
city is, at most, a. mere servitude for the benefit of the inhabitants
of the city, or of the public generally, whilst'the title to the soil is
vested in the United States.
In discussing the first point it had been shown, that the corporation of New Orleans had no title to the soil; and on the-most liberal

SUPREME COURT.
(New Orleans v. The United States.]

construction of the facts, and -with every disposition which might be.
felt to maintain and extend their interests, it would seem to be impossible to go farther than the opinion of chief justice Martin, who
merely contended that the quay had been irrevocably dedicated to
public use for the benefit ofthe inhabitants of the city and'the public
at large, and that the property was.therefore.put hors du commerce.
Indeed, the greater phtrt of the opening argument had been directed
to this point ; and if nothing more than this has been established,
then it is plain that the decree must be affirmed. Suppose.the lands
to have been dedicated to public use, and the city corporation to have
the legal title to such use, yet the fee charged with this public use,
must have remained in the crowns of France and Spain, andfrom
them must have passed to the United.States, who, as the present
owners of the soil, have a right to enjoin the city corporation from
proceeding to sell for its own exclusive benefit. Supposing.Ithe city
corporation to have the legal title in the servitude ; it is plain that
this does aot authorize it to sell the whole estate, appropriating the
proceeds to its own use, and that too without the consent of the
owners of the fe&. On the contrary, according to the rules, both of
the civil and common law, if the property ceases to be used for the
purpose to which it has been dedicated; if the servitude is abandoned
or extinguished; the whole estate reverts to the owner of the soil,
whose title then becomes absolute. In such case, the original owner,
or those who have succeeded to his rights, will hold the land freed
from the incumbrance of the servitude.
III. If the corporation has any title to the soil, then the same is
charged with a servitude held by the United States for their own
use,'and for the use of the public generally.
If upon any ground it should be held, that the title to the soil has
passed to the city corporation,.t hen, rs it is admitted and contended
by the counsel for the city that the. land3 were originally designed
for public use *as a quay, the question Will arise, by whom is this
servitude held! According to the law of France (as already shown),
all public places, including quays, are held by the crown for the use
of the public. This. title passed to the Spanish crown, and was
-retained by it, until retroceded to the French republic. By the treaty
of cession of 1803, ihis" servitude -passed to the United States; and
until they grant it to the state, or to the city,*they must continue to
hold it, provided they have a capacity to do so under the constitution
of the United States. That they had buch a capacity during the

JANUARY TERM 1836.

."689

[New Orleans v. TheUnited States.]

existence of the territorial government, cannot admit of doubt; and
they must now have the same capacity in this respect, *in regard to
Louisiana, which they possess in regard to the other states. Under
the powers to lay and collect imposts, and to regulate commerce,
they may undoubtedly acquire and hold wharves, storehouses, &c.
And in a great commercial city like New Orleans, what constitutional difficulty is there to prevent them from holding, for the purpose
of facilitating the collection of imposts and the regulation of commerce, theuse of a tract like the.quay ? It might not be necessary
or expedient in ordinary cases, for the United States to acquire a
servitude of this sort in so large a tract; but their power to hold such
a title cannot depend on the extent of the tract. .Besides, although
the territories adjacent to the Mississippi river have been formed into
states, the UnitedStates yet have an interest in the navigation of.
the Mississippi; andhave so lately as 1824 (Laws U. S. vol. 7, p. 329,
331), granted lands to the parishes of Point Coupee and West Baton
Rouge, for the purpose of keeping up levees on the bank of that river.
It is therefore submitted, that the . ervitude in these lands may be
well held by the United States, for the benefit of the citizens of the
United States, and of all others who may wish to use the same -for
the purposes of a quay.
M' Livingston, for the appellants.,
It has been truly said by the attorney-general, that this is a suit
of importance. Whether we consider the value of property actually
depending on its decision,'or of that which may be involved in the
principles which the decision may establish. But to the appellants,
its importance is far greater than any considerations of pecuniary
value could give to it. Decided in favour of the United States,
the decree gives them, not only the land contended for in this suit,
but all that lying in front of the city. It cuts off from all access.
navigation, the second commercial city of ihe union; shuts up their
streets ; renders their wharves useless ; and, worse than an invading
enemy, invests them with a blockade that their valour can never
raise. Well, therefore, might the attorney-giene-ral call it an important cause. But, happily, importance and difficulty are not synonymous. These fatal results of a decree against the appellants, may,
I think, be avoided by a reference to two cases lately decided in this
court; those of Cincinnati, and Pittsburgh : to which the attention of
the court has been already drawn.
voL. x. -4 m

.690

SUPREME COURT.
[New Orleans v. The United States.]

The facts are essentially the same in character ; or where they
differ, they are Stronger in our favour. The law by which they
are to be governed, is the same ; call it civil or common law, it is
founded on the principles of justice, which never vary; and the
only difference between the two systems is, that the rules which
have been established by the decisions of this court, were, under the
laws which govern this case, matter of statutory enactment.
Objections have been raised to the form of the action, which it
will be necessary to remove before we examine the merits. It has
been said that the counsel who opened this case erred in calling it
a suit in chancery, for the' followiiig reasons: it is not so entitled
no process of subpoena was issued ; and a jury was once impanelled
to try the issue of title. Thiscourt will not regard the want of form,
where it is not essential to the great ends of justice. If the words,
therefore, "in equity," are not placed at the head of the record, but
the. whole scope of the petition is to obtain an equitable relief, the
omission will not be fatal ;. those words can: be no more than a
direction to the clerk, on what docket to place the cause. The want
of a subpoena is supplied by a summons, and the appearance cures
all defects of mesne process. As little can the objection avail, that a
jury had once been summoned; for feigned issues to try facts are
among the ordinary proceedings of courts of equity.
But it is objected, that here the relief prayed for is not equitable, but
one given by the common law of the country; that the perpetual injunction prayed for by the bill and given by the court below, is nothing
more than the interdict of the civil law; .and authorities are taken from
a pamphlet, published some years ago, to prove the position: and
that the author of that painphlet, now the counsel for the appellant,
proved, as it is said, conclusively, that a suit commenced in the same
form with this, having the same object, and, in which the same relief was obtained, was not a suit in chancery. All this is true. But
an essential ciecumstance. is forgotten in the statement. . The suit
in question (Gravier v. The Corporation of New Orleans) was
brought in the territorial court of Louisiana, under the first grade of
government; a court, proceeding according to forms, essentially those
of the civil law ; governed in its decisions by the rules of that law:
and, consequently, knowing no distinction either in its decrees, or
its modes of procedure, between equity and common law. The object of Gravier's suit, was to be quieted in his possession : a relief
whic", if the suit had been in a chancery court, would have been

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[New Orleans v. The United States.]

given by perpetual injunction; and if according to the laws which
governed the territory, by the equivalent remedy of a perpetual inThe same remedy was given, by the territorial court,,
terdict.
that would have been given by a court of equity, had the distinction
been known to the laws of the country ; but it was not known ;
therefore, the proceeding in that case, was not a chancery proceeding, but one in the ordinary execution of the powers of the court.
Here, on the contrary, the suit is brought in a court having chancery
jurisdiction; the relief sought is an equitable relief; and it will not
surely be required, that authorities should be cited to prove, that
whatever may be the laws of the state in which a court of the
United States is situated, that court has equity jurisdiction: and
although, the courts of such state might give relief, acording to the
forms of the common law, in cases strictly ofequity jurisdiction; yet
those of the United States are bound to class them according to the
nature of the remedy sought for.
The reference to the pamphlet, from which the argument has
bedn drawn; the flattering terms in which the attorney-general has
been pleased to speak of it ; and the possibility that, in looking at it,
the court may recur to other parts then those immediately relating
to the question before them, oblige me to ask their indulgence'for a
single observation; irrelevant, it is true, to the case, but which I am
happy to find an opportunity of making. That pamphlet was written under circumstances in which the author thought, and still
thinks, he had suffered grievous wrongs; wrongs which he thought,
and still thinks, justified the- warmth of language in which .some
part of his arguments are couched ; but which, his respect for the
public and private character of his opponent, always obliged him to
regret that he had been forced to use. He is happy, however, to sayi
that at a subsequent period, the friendly intercourse with which,
prior to that breach, he had been honoured, was renewed ; that the
offended party forgot the injury ; and that the odlher performed the
more difficult task (if the maxim of a celebrated French author is
true), of forgiving the man upon ,whom he had inflicted it. The
court, I hope, will excuse this personal digression ; but I could not
avoid using this occasion of making known, that I have been spared
the lasting regret of reflecting, that Jefferson had descended to the
grave with a feeling of ill will towards me.
The opening counsel has also been supposed to have fallen into
another error, when he stated,'that the object of the suit was the

692

SUPREME COURT.

[New Orleans v. The United States.]
recovery of the absolute ownership of the property for the United
States. That'he has not erred, is evident. from the words of the
petition: they claim the dominion and possession, the union of
which amounts to absolute ownership.
It is true, as has been argued, that there are. cases in which the
court may modify the decree according to the circumstances which
are proved ; but this can only be when the proof is in conformity with
the case alleged : when it isnot, it destroys the force of the rule that
the allegata and probata must agree; and as a consequence, that the
decree must conform to both. Here it supposed that the court may
either decree the. property in full dominion to the United States, or
that they may establish the property in them, With a servitude to
the city, or give the property -to the city with a servitude to the
United States.; but neither of these kind of titles are put in issue,
neither of them are alleged in the pleadings; and, as will be shown,
neither are proved by the' evidence. They cannot recover a servitude by asking for the fee ; and 'if the land in the hands of the corporation is subject to the servitude of a common use in favour of all
the inhabitants of the United States, the government of the United
States cannot enforce that use-by a suit in their name.
The demandants then in this, as in all other cases, must prove
-their case, and prove it as stated. They allege dominion and possession ; both must be proved if they can have the relief prayed for,
viz. a perpetual injunction to quiet possession. But if they do not
show actual possession, how can -they.be quieted in it ?. If they do
not show property, there can'be no equity in their demand ; for 6hancery will never interpose in favour of an illegal possession : actual
possession has not been attempted to be shown, ;ind an actual adverse
possession for more than one hundred years is expressly admitted.
No position can be clearer, than that for this defect of proof
alone, the bill Must be dismissed ; and I might add, if it were necessary, that equity will not interfere to quiet a possession until after
the title has beeh settled. But we do not desire a decree on this
point, which would not put an end to the controversy. We are prepared to show conclusively that the United States have no title to
the land or to a servitude on it; gnd that the whole title is vested in
the defendants, subject to uses, for the observance of whichthey ire
amenable to the laws, to thecourts and to the authorities of the state
#xqlusively.

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[New Orleans v. The United States.]

1. The title of the United States. This rests on the second article of the treaty ceding Louisiana.
That gives to them the dominion of the province of Louisiana, and
enumerates as included in the grant, public squares, vacant lands,
&c., not private property. The general transfer would have been
sufficient to invest the United States with the sovereignty of the
country. But to show that no right to the property contained
within the limits of the dession was retained, the enumeration of
vacant lands, public squares, &c. is made. Now in this enumeration the grantor cannot be supposed to give more than lie had: there-.
fore ifihe premises are included in the description of public squares,
can it be supposed that he intended to convey, or could convey to
the United States that which they claim ; not only the dominion
(which supposing it to be the sovereignty only and which no one in
his senses would deny), but also possession, and property in that
which had been dedicated to public use ? The term public square,
by its very name proves that it is a place of that description, not a
domain subject to be disposed of by the sovereign. But that there
might be no room for doubt, no contradiction between this part of the
treaty and that which secured the inhabitants in their rights and property; the restriction is added, that that only was conveyed which
was not private property.
The terms of the treaty then gave no title to the pretnises ; and
to succeed, the plaintiffs must prove that they were vacant lands; but
these terms are well understood, and by decisions of this court, have
been:adjudged not to mean property in a town: and by the admission in this case, the property' in question is acknowledged to
have been in tte use and occupation of the inhabitants of the city,
ever since its foundation.
Failing in the attempt to bring the case within the bounds of the
treaty, the United States have recourse to a decision which it is
thought secures it to be within its spirit. The decision of the su-,
preme court of Louisiana is relied on as decisive, if not binding as
authority, conclusive as authority, and convincing as argument. it
will be examined in all these' points of view, with the respect due to
the learning of the judges who pronounced it; which is acknowledged
to be great; but at the same time with the freedom.that duty to my
clients requires.
It is not contended that we are concluded 1y this decision. It
was not made between the same parties, and although for parcel of

SUPREME COURT.
[New Orleans v. The United States.]

the lands now in dispute, was not given on the same evidence; and
these circumstances derogate much from iil consicered only as a precedent. There are others which when properly considered, weaken
its force, even as argument.
This court has frequently expressed its respect for state decisions,
and its disinclination to oppose them; but as their reasons are understood, they will give them effect uinder the following circumnstances:
I. Where disturbing them would unsettle titles bona fide acquired.
Here no such effect would be prodliced ; the few claims on this
property having undergone legal investigation, and being settled by
decisions that do not admit of reversal.
II. The second requisite is, that the state decisions have been
uniform. In this the case of the United Stafes is remarkably defective.' Several decisions have taken place in the supreme court of the
state prior to that of De Armas ; in all of which, as I shall show,
opinions have been given directly at variance with those established
in that case. The'first of these is The Corporation v. G(avier, 11
Martin's Rep. 625; of which these were the circumstances: Gravier
had laid out his plantation into a suburb, and made a plan on which
he had laid out a square, on which lie attempted afterwards to build:
he was opposed by the corporation ; and the court decided, that the
designation on the plan was a sufficient dedication to public use to
prevent any exclusive appropriation beiig made of it by the former
proprietors.
The next is found' in 3 Martin 303. In that also we have
the authority of Martin (one of the judges) for the fact that the
judges fully recognised the doctrine, that places dedicated to public
use could not be disposed of by the crown; and that if the corporation had then produced the-plan of the city which is in evidence here,
-he judgment would have been different; and that if a grant had
been made by the crown, it would have been declared void. (See
Martin's opinion, and the printed case, Mayor, &c. v. De Armas, 46.)
In the case of Chabot v. Blanc, 5 Martin, the same question arose,
and the same intimation given by the court, that if a plan of this
had been produced showing the locus in -quo to have been dedicated
to public use, the grant of it by the king would have been declared
void.
These two cases were decided before the corporation had discovered
the maps, of which authenticated copies are now produced. II
both the couft formed their judgment in the absence of this proof;

JANUARY TERM 1836.

695

[New Orleans v. The United States.]

in bot h they deny the right of the crown to dispose of the property,
if the dedication could- have been proved by the production of the
plan,: in'both the premises were part of the qUays now in dispute:
therefore, in both these cases, as well as in the one first cited (Gravier v. The Corporation), the principle involved in this case is fully
established; and no decision of a contrary nature, before that of De
Armas, having been produced, the state authorities, so far from being
uniformly against us, are three to one in our favour; and all these
three appear to have been the unanimous opinion of the court:
whereas, this is decided by two judges against ihe opinion of one.
De Armas's case then stands alone: ihe decision must be established or fall, by the comparative strength or weakness of the arguments; and to support it, we have them fortunately at full length.
The court will compare those of the dissenting judge (Martin) with
those of the two judges forming a majority of the court.
So much reliance is placed on this case that it must be closely
examined. That part which investigtes the validity of the confirmation made by the United States, does not apply here; and need
not be examined. The presiding judge, as- to the principal point,
the property in the corporation, refers to the argument of his associates; with whom he agrees, and' therefore touches very lightly upon
it. He' however takes forgranted,.a fact that is disproved by the
admissions in this case; viz. that the greater part of the space denominated a quay on the plan, had never been used as such. p. 59.
He then enters into an investigation of the true meaning of the.
word quay, which lie concludes must be an artificial work; and as
the space between the houses atid the river was natural soil, it
could not come within that description. 'In another part of 'my argument, I will show that this philological i.nq.uiry is quite useless in
this case, and that the learned judge has fallen into an error, which
shows that it-is so. For, he says, " perhaps it may be required that
some effect should be given to the word quay, inserted on the plan.
This mhry be done, by allowing it in reference to that part of tlhe
space on which it is found; which was a quay, according to the
meaning of the word, as generally received ; i. e., the levee which
existed on the bank ot the river, and the shore between the extetior
of the levee and the water." Now, if the place on which the word
is written in all the plans is to be considered as the quaythen all
the definitions which require that it should be an artificial work, are
incorrect: for a glance at the plans will show, that wherever it is

696

SUPREME COURT.
[New Orleans V.The United States.)

written, it is on the vacant space between the artificial levee and
the houses.
Another ground on which the learned presiding judge rests his
opinion, has, I confess to my no little surprise, been adopted by the
attorney-general. It is, that the United States, because they have
the. right to establish ports of entry and lregulate commerce, have
that of regultting quays as an appendage to the ports, and take
upon them the police of wharves in till the states of the union.
The argument of the attorney-general does not, as I understand
him, carry this right'further than the port of New Orleans ; but his
doctrine does : for if the right be derived from the constitution, it
must apply to all ports in the union ; and the judge expressly goes
this length. Of all the constructions of constitutional powers, given
to the federal compact, this would be the most dangerous and mischievous in its exercise, and the least founded in the Words or spirit
of the federal compact. I shall refer to it again, .n reviewing the
arguments of, the learned counsel opposed to me. But grant the
right, and it is of no use, to establish the claim of the United States to
the title of the land. Let them, if they can, find the .authority in
the Constitution to make laws for regulating wharfage and drayage,
and cleaning the slips and docks. Let them appoint scatvengers, and
exercise all the jurisdiction which this construction would give them.
They are not advanced a step in their claim to the property of the
soil. which they must establish before they can succeed in this suit.,
The presiding judge having referred tothe opinion of tie associate, who concurred with him, for the argument, and that. argument
having been expressly adopted by the attorney-general, it must be
respectfully examined.
It divides itself into two branches : to . show, -first, that the city
had no title to the premises. Secondly, that the land was not set
apart and dedicated to public purposes.
The first head issupported by the learned judge, under what
I respectfully consider a mistaken view of the law of. France.
p. 64. He lays it down broadly, that by those laws "a city or town
could, not. acquire right or title to the soil of iimovables, or to the
use of them without letters patent from the king." But the authority quoted in support of this, shows, I think, that by the very fact
of establishing a town, the right to hold real property is acquired
as a necessary consequence. That authority declares, that no one
can establish communities but the king, and adds. "that it is a

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[New Orleans v. The United States.]

consequence of this right also, to permit them to hold real and personal property for themselves." And afterwards, "these communities cannot possess immovables, without the permission of the former." To this there are several answers, all equally conclusive.
First, the authority does not require letters patent, or any- letters
whatever, from the king, for the establishmeut Zf a town;. it requires
his permission only; and that permission may be proved by any legal.
evidence' whatever. In the present instance, the grant to the West
India Company, by whose act the town Was laid'out, i sufficiently
broad to cover such permission. It gives them the land in allodial tenure, with extensive powers to carry on trade, and make
establishments,' build forts, sell the lands, &c. And the govern:
ment gave its. sanction to the location and plan of the tow-n, by
the employment of its own officers and engineers: and even if
that work had been done solely by the act of the company, the plan.
.was ratified by receiving it into the public archives,- and afterwards
more fully.when, in 1832, it received the surrender of the charter,
and continued the government of the city under the original plain.
If, then, the city was laid out by permission of the king, according
to the plan produced, or even if he only ratified such plan,:and governed the city by his officers, according to the extent and order of
such plan, no other permission was necessaryto vest in the city the
premises in question ; for those premise"' are'part of, the city, not a
distinct property, acquired by it ; which, according to the authority;
required letteres d'amortissement, to enable them to hold it. And
the want of this distinction causes the error in the learned judge's
opinion. ' For can. it be doubted, that after giving permission to lpy
out the plan of a great. city, destined, acco!ding to the sanguine expectations of the times (expectations M"ore than realized in our day)
to be the emporium of extensive commerce, the capital city of an
immense region; after designating on it a capacious harbour, commodious streets, public squares, sites for public buildings, and above
all, that, without which, the whole would become useless, .commodious quays securing to it a free access to the river and the necessary facilities forlading and unlading of merchandize ; is it possible
to suppose that a separate grant should be required of all these component and indispensable parts of a city, to*enable the inhabitants to
enjoy them ? Whatever letters patent, then, might be 'necessary to
enable communities to acquire real property, after they were created,
none could, in the nature of things, be necessary to give them the
VOL. x.-4 N

SUPREME COURT.
[New Orleans v. The United States.]

'enjoyment of those parts of the city itself, which were destined for
public use ; such as their quays, streets and squares. Are they not
integral parts of it ? and if so, does not the permission to create a
city, by the king, and a fortiori, hiscreation of one himself, include
this necessary grant
But suppose the grant necessary, and that the premises were not
part of the city, is it not necessary to be presumed that such grant
was made? It is a necessary presumption, when a thing that may
be acquired by prescription, has been so long in the -hands of the
possessor, to give the title. Here, that proof is before the court.
Therefore, it inevitably follows, that whether the -laying out of the
town is, as I suppose it, a sufficient grant, or whether the nature of
the property required a separate grant to convey it, is immaterial.
In the one case, the grant is proved ; in the other,. its existence is
necessarily presumed.
There is on this head alone, an erroneous 'conclusion drawn from
the law of Partidas quoted by the learned judge. That law (tit.
28, 3d partid.) defines what shall be the common property of the
cities, for the use of all the citizens, in contradistinction to that
which is held by the magistrates of the city for the commbn good,
*but of which the citizens have not the common use; and after
.enumerating some of them, as the banks of the rivers, the public
fountains, the commons adjacent to the town, adds, "and other such
like places as are established and granted for the common use."
Evidently referring to the use to which the property is appropriated,
not to the manner of acquiring it. The same judge also on this
head adds, "that the plans produced in evidence, have never been
delivered to the city as a muniment of title." This appears not
quite certain. Considering the various changes of jurisdiction that
the city and province have been subject to, the two successive conflagrations of the city, and the notorious loss and removal of public
documents; the probability, I should think, would certainly be, that
where lots were to be sold, -buildings erected, and streets located on
the ground, a map or plan must necessarily have-been in the hands
of some local public officer belonging. to the community where these
operations were to be performed; but wherever it lay hid, whenever
its existence was discovered, it must have its legal operation. What
that is to be, is more particularly examined in the second part of the
learned judge's argument referred to, and adopted as his own by the
attorney-general.

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[New Orleans v. The United States.]

That. argument concedes that a destination to public uses in a
plan, is a sufficient conveyance of the property to that purpose.
That this court has correctly placed the setting off of commons to
cities, on the same grounds as that of streets and highways: but,
he says, that "although this may be perfectly correct under the
common law,. yet the decision cannot apply to,a case arising under
the French or Spanish law." And he thinks that one -example will
show this. "1'The supreme court considers," he says, "that the fee
may be in abeyance until a grantee exists who can accept it ; and
that then the grant is irrevocable."
This doctrine, he thinks,
irreconcilable with the rule of the French law, that no community
can have a right to the use of immovable property, without letters
patent from the king; or with the Spanish law, which recognises no
place as common property for the use of the -city, but that which
it acquires by grant, purchase or prescription. But, are there any
such rules in the French or Spanish laws ? I trust, I have shown
there are none: and it is worthy of remark, that on this branch of
the argument, the rules are greatly extended beyond the authorities
which are supposed to have established them. Thus, the text from
Domat says, that the king can permit communities to possess property for their use, (pourleur usage), not the use of property, but the
property itself for their use. Two very distinct things; one, a right
to purchase teal property to make their own use of it, the other, to
purchase a use or servitude, in the property of another. But the answer to these supposed rules, andi to -their application, has already
been anticipated.
The following part of the opinion is not applicable to the present
suit, for it consists solely in an endeavour to establish a right in the
king of France, by virtue of his sovereignty and his superintendence
of the police of cities, to dispose of the property dedicated to the public use of the citizens; a right which he thinks devolved on the king
of Spain, who, as was contended in that case, had made a grant of
the land in dispute, part of this quay, to one of the parties in that
suit. Now although I should contest every part of this argument,
yet .supposing -that the kings of France and Spain (by virtue of some
regal power, which I contend they never had) could dispose of property which they themselves had made part of the public property of
the citizens ; yet they have not exercised it with respect to the premises now in question: they were handed down to the corporation
of New Orleans in regular succession ; and if the sovereignty of the

SUPREME COURT.
tNew Orleans v. The United States.]

country came in the same manner to the United States, it came to
them unaccompanied by the right of supervision over the police of
cities, which the argument supposes the king to have possessed. It
came to them limited by the, powers delegated in the constitution,
and we shall certainly look in vain into that instrument, for a power
to interfere with, much less to claim the property which had once
been dedicated to public use.
This part of the argument also errs, in stating that the supreme
court decided, that merely having a space vacant in the plan of a
town, was a sufficient dedication of it to public purposes: all the
blocks in the plans we have produced, lying in the back part of the
city, are left vacant ; they are not subdivided into lots ; yet there is
no pretence that they were intended for the use of the. city ; they
were left so until purchasers offered for the lots. Something more
is required, if I understand the decisions of the court. The space,
from its situation, must appear to be necessary for the accommodation of the inhabitants (such as that of the land in question), or
there must be some evidence of such dedication by written, or even
verbal proof; both of which (situation and written designation), be it
remarked, concur in.the present case.
. A material circumstance, however, has entirely escaped attention
in the argument, which fenders.of no avail all that part of it which
is drawn from the prerogative of the king to resume his grant or curtail
any servitude he may have created. The land on which the town of
New Orleans was laid out, was private property, not the domain of
the crowo. It is forgotten, that the province of Louisiana was, after
the surrender of the grant to Crozat, granted to the West India Company, to hold in allodial tenure, independent of any feudal rights
that might attach to the crown.: that they founded the city with
the assent of the crown, on their own lands; and when, in the year
1732, they surrendered their grant, the king took only what they
had not disposed of. But they could not, it is conceded, alter the
plan, so as to deprive the citizens of any advantage it gave them ;
therefore the king, .who received only their rights, could not. A
word or two on the supposed right of the king. It is founded on this
reasoning. There is no doubt, it supposes, that the corporate power
may, with the assent of the sovereign, change the destination of
places originally intended for public use, but which, an alteration of
circumstances has rendered imploper for that use. But the king
united both these powers ; therefore, his will was sufficient to change

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[New Orleans v. The United States.]

the destination. This reasoning appears to me to be built on an incorrect view of the nature of the French laws, relating to the communities or municipalities of towns or communes. No act of incorporation was necessary to create them. The permission of the king,
as we have seen, by the quotation from Domat, was sufficient.
Once created, they had their rights independent of the crown ; rights
of property, and franchises, which he could no more legally invade,
than he could the property of an individual. In France, most of the
towns held their franchises ald property by long usage, which, in
general, supposed a royal permission.
In their colonies all the
towns were created by the same means which were pursued in the
present case; the survey under royal authority, or that which it
had delegated, and the subsequent government by municipal officers, appointed by the crown or permitted to be chosen by the people. The argument seems to admit in one part, that. after an incorporation this union of royal and corporate powers ceased. If then,
the survey and plan by royal authority were equivalent nnder the
French to an incorporation under the common law, the argument
totally fails. How far it applied to the Spanish law, (more immediately the subject of controversy .inthat suit), may be judged
of by the Ist.law, title-16th, of the 7th book of the Novissima Recopilacion; which enacts that all royal grants made or to be made,
of the rights or property of any cities, towns or places, shall be declared void.
The same want of attention to the distinction between lands
to be granted to a city, as its propios, that is to say, lands not for
common use but for supporting the charges of the city, and there
designated as a component part of the city in its first formation,
pervades the argument (p. 73) ; where the viceroys who had the
power to assign such propios to new cities, were directed to send
to the king an account of what they have thus designated, that
he may confirm them, is brought to prove that designation alone
is not sufficient, there must be an after grant. But this law speaks
of one thing ; our case, and the case before the court in Louisiana of
another. A mere designation of part of the royal domain out of the
city for the purpose of supporting the city charges, may require a
regular grant ; while a mere designation of a part of the city for the
common use of the inhabitants may be, and is sufficient without a
grant. The distinction between the three kinds of common property'that may be held by a municipality, is clearly drawn in the

SUPREME COURT.
[New Orleans v. The United States.]

Spanish law (3 Partidas, laws 7, 8, 9, tit. 28) : one that is common to
all the world, such as the port, the shores, &c. ; another for the common use of the citizens; a third for theexpenses of the community, but
which last are not subject to the use of the citizens individually, as
the others are. These last are called propios, and by confounding
the laws relating to' these three, we run into inextricable error. The
whole of this opinion of the truly learned judge of the supreme court
of Louisiana is, however, based on the idea that the dedication to a
public use in the plan, cannot operate as a grant, according to the
laws of France or Spain ; although he admits that they would, according to the laws which govern the other states. For in the
conclusion he admits, that if they had been granted to the city, they
would not have passed by the treaty to the United States.
Before I finish my examination of this able opinion, which the
attorney-general has converted into a part of his argument, I cannot
but make but one general remark on the power which it assumes to
be vested in the kings of France and Spain, to resume and dispose
of those parts of a city which they had designated for public use in
the plans they had made of it ; a power insisted on with respect to a
quay, to all the land lying between the city and the river, shutting
it up completely from the only means of carrying on its commerce,
and which yet it is acknowledged they did not possess with respect
to the streets. But supposing, contrary to the fact, this town to
have been laid out-on land belonging to the king, he gave the streets
in no other way than he gave the space in question ; if the one binds
him, so does the other. The law by which the city holds is not the
mere common law, it is the law of eternal justice, pervading every
system, common to every country, and from which every departure
is 4n injustice, and an anomaly. What is giveh cannot be resumed
without wrong, any more than that can be taken which is derived
from any other source. King, republic, or individual, who'gives a
right over a property, ean no more resume it than he can seize on
that which he never possessed. The designation in the plan meant
the same thing in Louisiana under the French law, that it did in
America under the common law; .in both it was meant to give a
right; in both that right is sacred.
I have now examined the title set up by the appellees. I have
shown that it cannot be 'supported by the words or the spirit of the
treaty under which they cloim.

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[New Orleans v. The United States.]

That the state decisions which are supposed to strengthen it are
more numerous in favour of the defendant. I hope I do not flatter
myself in thinking that the only one in favour of the appellees ought
not to be considered as authority ; because in some points the cause
is different; in others the reasoning on which it is founded is unsound ; and because the court giving the decree was divided.
Although in showing the weakness of the plaintiff's title, I have
necessarily anticipated many topics which enter into the establishment of ours ; yet I must pray the indulgence of the court while I
spread it before them in a connected point of view..
The topographical position of the lands in dispute has been so
frequently described, and is so accurately laid down on the plans
which are before the court,, that no further description is necessary.
The- following historical facts are material parts of the case ; and
are proved by works admitted as authority by the parties.
That the colony of Louisiana having been previously granted to
Crozat, he, in the year 1717, surrendered it to the crown ; and that
a new grant was, in the same year, made to the West India Company, conceding to them all the lands in allodial tenure; With
extensive powers of making establishments of commerce.
That the position of the chief town was designated to be at a place
where New Orleans now is, about the year 1720; but that the
seat of government was not removed from where it had been
first established, until 1724: when a plan was made, of which we
have a copy signed by De Panger, who is proved to have been royal
engineer, bearing date the 29th of May 1724 ; and designating by
different colours the buildings made before September in the preceding year, and those made since. That altogether some hundreds
of houses then appear to have been already built on the streets as delineated on the plan'
That on the 15th of May 1728 another plan was made by Broutin,
also a royal engineer, conformable, in the designation of the streets
and public plans, to that of De Panger; with the addition of a. great
number of public and private buildings marked on it, all situated on
the streets as designated in bboth plans.
That in 1744 another plan was engraved and published in Charlevoix's History of Louisiana, conformable in all respects, except in
the addition of other improvements, but without any alteration of
the streets, wharves and public places, to the plans before men-

SUPREME COURT.
[New Orleans v. The United States.1

That this work has been admitted as authlentie by the

tioned.
parties.
That in all these plans tile word quay is written opposite to the
front row of houses, and on the space between them and the river
which space constitutes the premises in question.
That on the first and third of these plans the ditch arid fortifications inclosing the town plot are delineated ; arid that they are carried round three sides; and terminate at the river on each side,
enclosing with the riverthe premises in question.
Upon these facts and documents, together with the admissions
on record thlat towns in the'French colonies were not created by act
of incorporation, but by plans made by the royal engineers, and deposited in the bureau of the marine, from whence they have been
drawn ;.in addition to the corroborating facts of possession, and other
circumstances hereafter alluded to ; the appellants rest their claim of
title to the. premises in question as a part of the town.
The cases of Cincinnati and Pittsburgh ccntain all the law necessary to be cited in order to establish a title under this evidence;
unless,
1. A body of law-should be found to govern this case different
from that under which these decisions were given.
2. Some evidence should be found in the case to c6unteract the
force of t.hat relied on by the appellants.
1. The cases are perfectly parallel, except that the fact of destination, which was proved by inference and circumstantial evidence in
the one of the cases decided by this court, and by parol testimony in
the other, is here shown by written evidence on the face of the plan
itself. That here the ditch in the first plan, and afterwards the
fortifications, which formed the boundaries of the town, are designated
or the plan, showing the piremises to be as much an integral part of
the town as the streets or squares ;.it is therefore not a parcel of land
claimed to have been -given to the city, but one of the public places
of the city itself within its designated boundaries, that is claimed in
this suit by the United States as their property, to be disposed of as
they may think fit.
In this case, as in those decided by this court, the lands in dispute
.are such as are absolutely necessary to the wants of a commercial
city, more Particularly as applicable to those of a great commercial
seaport. The cases then only differing in points which make this
stronger than those decided, they must be considered as authorities

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[New Orleans v. The United States.]

in point, Unless it can be shown that they are not governed by the
same law; but this inquiry has already been fiade in discussing
the opinion of the court in the case of De Armas. And I cannot
but think that it has been sufficiently shown, that the princip'es
which must govern the cases are essentially the same in both systems of law. I cannot, however, avoid drawing the attention of the
.court to the very learned and able opinion delivered by the dissenting
judge (Martin) on this point. p. 48. He says: "I have looked in
vain- in the opinion of the court for any reference or allusion to any
principle peculiar to the common law of England. It has appeared
to me, that the case was determined on the just, broad and general
principles. of law in the corpus juris civilis : horieste vivere, to act
honestly.: polliciti serxare fidem, when we have made a promise to
keep it ; and the necessary corollary, turpe est fideni fallere, it is
shameful to disappoint.expectations we have authorized."
2. If the laws ape the same, and there is no difference in the prima
facie case we have made, the only circumstance which can prevent
a similar decree would be the. production of some evidence to counteract that on which we rely. This has been attempted. With
what success we shall next inquire.
1. It has been contdnded, that although this space may" have been
designated for public use as a quay, yet being given by the king he
might resume his grant; that the United States succeeding to his
rights may, when they think proper, make the like resumption ; and
that the king of Spain actually did exerciseit, by making grants
within the contested limits, with the acquiescence of the city authorities.
The two first points have been already examined; and it has been
shown that no such right of resumption did exist, or could exist,
either in France or Spain; that in 'the latter kingdom it was forbidden by positive statute ; and in the former, aid hideed every where,
by the first principles of justice.
The exercise by the Spanish authority remains to be examined.
The plaintiff produced six grants or permissions to build on the space
in question. Of these,
. The first is that of Magnon, who pei itions for a grant of a parcel
of land near the levee, for the purpose.of pursuing his business as a
ship carpenter, which he states to be essential to the service of the
king. This petition is referred to the law. officer of the crown, (the
assessor) who gives it as his opinion, that "although the council of
voL. x.-4 o

SUPREME COURT.
tNew Orleans v. The United States.]

the city might hive some objection on account of the lot being situated within its precincts," yet he advises Ihe grant from the necessity
of having a ship yard. But no grant was made, although the opinion was delivered in August 1799, and the transfer of the province
did not take place until December 1803.
This fact then corroborates instead of impairing our title. The
law officer declares that the city had good objections, that the land
lay within the limits ; and notwithstanditig the alleged necessity no
grant was made.
2. The next is a similar application from Chess6, a calker, foi
permission- to build a shed. But this is addressed not to the government but the city authorities, and permission is given to build and
hold the shed at their will.. Another evidei]ce not of royal but of
municipal authority.
3. The third grant is toBertrand, but it is merely a permission to
build a shed, immediately afher a distressing conflagration; which
was so far from conveying any property, that the petitioner could not
repair the shed without asking a new permission.
4. Urtubuise asserts to the commissioners of the United States (as
they report), that he had permission to build from the governor, but
produces no authority.
Thus far, then, nothing is proved to impair, but something to
strengthen, the case of the appellants. Their claim acknowledged
by the law officer of the crown in one instance. The actual exercise of dominion over it in another. In the third, nothing but a permission dictated by charity, in a time of great calamity, when strict
scrutiny of the powers of different officers would not be made; and
in the fourth, nothing but the allegation of a party produced.
The two remaining grants to Mentzinger and Liotaud, are, it must
be confessed, acts which directly asserted the right of the king of
Spain to dispose of the property in question; but they were the acts
of a subordinate officer, and were so far from being acquiesced in by
the city, that an appeal and remonstrance were made to the king;
on which, according to the usual dilatory proceedings of that monarchy, no decision was made prior to the transfer. This fact is
stated in Martin's opinion (p. 47). No other grants however were
made; and the attorney-general might have added to these arbitrary
acts of disturbance, one of a more striking kind: where a Spanish
governor sacrificed four of the principal inhabitants, and placed the
tyrant's mark of blood on the very ground now in question.. My
learned fiiend's humanity would not permit him to avail himself of

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[New Orleans v. The United States.]

this act of possession, but it is quite as goQd as another that has been
relied on, the parading of the troops on a part of the premises. After this arbitrary sacrifice of the lives of its citizens by the first governor, his successors might reasonably think themselves authorized
to use little ceremony in disposing of the property of the city ; and
if it had been acquiesced in, a better reason might have been alleged
than an acknowledgement of the king's title.
The corporation, it is said, have by various acts acknowledged
the right of the United States. They have petitioned for, and accepted grants of part of the land ; but this was done before they had
discovered the evidence of their title. And even if done with a fullknowledge of it, could never divest them of the property.
No act of interference with the rights of the'city having been
found under the French government, one of our. strong pieces of testimony has been ingeniously made to supply this deficiency. We
produced nineteen ancient'grants of lots in the front row of the city,
all of which called for the quay as their front boundary ; these were
produced to corroborate the evidence resulting from the inscription of
that word on the plans. Now one of these, instead of us'ng the expression bounded by the quay, says situated on the quay, sur le quai:
just as we say a farm situated on such a river, a lot in such a street.
But to take away all doubt on the subject, we have the lot in question located on the map, with the name inscribed and shown to be
one of the front lots boundedby the quay. These are the only evidences of interference by either of the governments: none by France
from the laying out of the city in 1720 to the transfer, forty-nine
years; and such as have been described, that of Spain, since.
An argument has been used which iequires some notice. It is
said, that although the inhabitants of the city, individually, might
have a right to the use of this ground ; yet, the corporate body, now
representing them, can have no title; because, during the French
and Spanish dominion, there was no corporation. The king, if I
understand the argument, had the power of the corporate body, and
held the'ground for the use of the citizens; that the fee was in him,
subject to the servitude, for the benefit of the citizens ; that this
right was vested in the United States, by the transfer, and that they
now held it in the same manner that the king did.
The first objection to thic argument, is the radical one, that every
community, under the French, as well as the Spanish government,
has its officers to represent them ; and although, by the statement

SUPREME COURT.
fNew Orleans v. The United States.]

of facts, it is considered, that What we call an act of incorporation
was not passed, yet all its effects were produced, by the 'erection of
the town. Under both governments, every town had its municipal
officers, who took charge of its property and asserted its interests,
very frequently, against the encroachments of the king himself; an
instance has been already mentioned in the remonstrance of the
cabildo, against (he governor's grants. Again, if there was no corporatte body, nothing to represent the'city, but the kingly power;
how, and to whom, did the king make the grant of the commons,
and the lots fr'onting the public squal:e, for the propios of the city,
as has -been proved in this cause. Not to himself, surely. NoI
he made it to the cabildo, for the use of the city. The ground designated for streets, squares, and quays, by the plan, vested in the
municipality of the town, for the common use of the citizens; under
the French government, passed to the cabildo, tinder that of Spain,
was exercised by-a temnporary municipality, appointed by the French
prefect, wlio received the transfer fr'om Spain, in order to deliver it
to the United States. They beld it until the United States entered
into possession, When another provisional municipality was appointed, and -remained in office until their powers, by a regular act of incorporation, were vested in the present defendants. By that act,
"all the estates, whethier real or personal, the rights, dues, debts,
clainis, or property whatever, which heretofore belonged to the city
of New Orleans, or had been held for its use, by the cabildo, under
the Spanish government ; the municipality, after the transfer, in
the year 1803, to France ; or the municipality now existing, shall be
vested in the mayor, aldermen and inhabitants, to be enjoyed by
them and their successors for ever."
This act passed during the first stage of territorial government,
when all laws were submitted to congress for their revision. Consequently, they are estopped fiom saying that they have any interest in property which at any time was held by the municipality or
the cabildo ; but it has been indisputably shown, that for more than
forty-nine years, from the year 1720 to 1769, under the French government, and. from that tine to the transfer, in 1803, under the
Spanish, there has been such possession of the premises. Therefore, if every other title, were wanting, this alone would be sufficient
to establish our right.
An equally strong objection to this argument, arises from the constitutional power bf congress. If the kings of France and Spain

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[New Orleans v. The United States.]

could be trustees for the inhabitants of cities, and exercise either mediately or immediitely, all the municipal powers necessary for the protection of such rights, how is congress to interfere? even if the same
rights had been transmitted to them by the terms of the treaty.
There is a want of distinction, some confusion of ideas in this
branch of the argument. An acknowledged power and duty of
-sovereignty is confounded with one, with which it is not invested,
and which it could 'not exercise if it were. The sovereign power
has no right to exercise the duties which, by its grant, it has devolved
upon the authorities of a city or town; it does not hold the property
which is dedicated to the public use of the citizens of that town;
but it always retains the power of obliging their municipal officers
to observe the terms of the grant, to preserve the property for the
use for which it was given. Thus, immediately after the transfer
of the country to the United States, before the local territorial government had been established; if the municipal officers of New
Orleans had attempted to change the streets, to dispose of the public
square, or in any other illegal way to injure the rights of the citizens: the United States, as the sovereign of the country, by its proper officers, might have taken cognizance of the case and prevented
or redressed the injury. Then, they might have sustained a suit in
their name, as the sovereign of the country, for an injunction to prevent an illegal sale of common property ; but not even then, one like
the present, to recover the possession of it. But after a local government had been established under the territorial grade, with its legislative council, its judicial and executive officers, and all the other
attributions of supreme power, restricted only by the powers vested
inthe general governmeut ; when, afterwards, in pursuance of the
terms of the treaty, Louisiana was admitted into the union, on equal
terms with the other states : in both these cases, that supei'intendence
over the municipality, which bears the attribute of local sovereignty,
was transferred to the territorial, first, and afterwards to the state
government; and can never be exercised by the United States, unless,
indeed, the cons*truction of the constitution should be adopted, which
has for the first time, that I am aware of, been contended for in
this cause. But even then, if the power given to congress to regulate commerce, should be found to mean the grant of a jurisdiction
over wharves and ports, some thing more would be necessary before
that power could be exercised ; a code-of the police of ports, the
creation of officers, hitherto unknown to our government, gnd some

SUPREME COURT.
[New Orleans v. The United States.]

mode of settling the clashing interests of the cities, the states, and
the United States, in all the ports of the union. For, I repeat, if the
power exists on the -wharves of New Orleans, it must exist in those
of all the states; 'or the argument derives it from the constitution,
which must. operate upon all. That so great an extension of the
powers of the general government has never before been thought of,
is a strong proof against its adoption ; and I quit the argument without any fear that the court, by sanction, will make, an inroad on
state rights ; which the. learned counsel for the United States would
be the first to deplore.
I may hope from.this view that I have shown that the United
States can claim no property in the soil.
That they cannot, recover in this suit even if they had a title, because they have not shown such a possession as would sustain a suit
for a perpetual injunction.
That the decision of the state court forms no authority to guide
that of this court.
That the lands in question were dedicated to public use and vested
in the city by evidence that cannot be controverted.
And, that the rights of the city, under the French and Spanish
government, have been regularly transmitted to the defendants,
forming a chain Qf title that'has vested the property in them subject
to laws, for the due observance of which they are amenable to the
state authorities, not to those of the United States.
But if there should be a failure in any of these points, there is one
on which we cannot be mistaken:
The title derived from prescription by a possession of more than
a hundred years. Law 1, tit. 7, lib. 5, Recop.; and law 1, tit. 15,
lib. 4, Recop. To rebut this, an authority has been introduced from
Domat to show that things destined for public use cannot be acquired by prescription; an authority showing clearly that property
of that description cannot be acquired by an intruder on the common
property of a city, but most clearly not forbidding the acquisition of
them by the city under that title ; a law made for the protection of
public property, not to prevent the application of a law in their favour
which comes in aid of lost titles.
Mr Justice M'LEAN delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case is brought before this court by an appeal from the decree, of the district court for the eastei'n district of Louisiana.

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[New Orleans v. The United States.]

Under a practice which is peculiar to Louisiana, the attorney of
the United States, on their behalf, presented a petition to the court ;
which represented that the mayor of the city of New Orleans, in
pursuance of an ordinance of the city council, had advertised for sale,
for a day then past, and was about to advertise anew, for sale, in
lots, the vacant land included between Ursuline Levee and Garrison
streets, and the public road in the city of New Orleans ; and also, the
vacant land included between Customhouse Levee and Bienville
street, and the public road inthe said city.
And the petitioner further stated, that by the treaty of cession of
the late province of Louisiana by the French republic to the United
States of Atnerica, the United States succeeded to all the antecedent
rights of France and Spain, as they then were, in and over the said
province ; the dominton and possession thereof, incruding all lands
which were not private property ; and that the dominion and possession of the,said vacant lands, ever since the discovery and occupation
of the said province by France, remained vested in the sovereign ;
and had not, at any time prior to the date of said treaty, been granted
by the sovereign to the city. And the Oetitioner prayed for ar. injunction to restrain. the city council from selling the land, or doing
any other act which shall invade the rightful dominion of the United States over said land, or their. possession of it; and a perpetual
injunction was prayed.
To this petition the mayor, aldermen and inhabitants of the city
answered, and denied the material facts and allegations in the petition ; and they specially denied that the dominion and possession of
the land, at the time Louisiana was ceded to the United States, were
vested in either the king of Spain or the sovereign of France, either
as vacant land or under any other denomination.
And in a supplemental answer the. respondents say, that the inhabitants of -the city of New Orleans are the true and lawful proprietors of the vacant lots they have been enjoined not to sell.
1. "Because all the space of ground which exists between the
front line of the houses of the city and the river Mississippi was left
by the king of France, under the name of quays, for the use and
benefit of the inhabitants of the city.
2. "Because if since the foundation of the city of New Orleans
said space of ground became wider than was necessary for the
public use, and the quays of the city, it was in consequence of an
increase formed by alluvion, in the greatest part of the front of the

SUPREME COURT.
[New Orleans v. The United States.]

city; and the worki which were necessarily made from time immemorial by the inhabitants of the city, or at their expense, to the
levee in front thereof, to advance it nearer to the river than it was
formerly.
3. "Because, by the laws of Spain which were in force at the
time'when said alluvions were formed, and said works were made,
alluvions formed by rivers in front of cities belonged to the inhabitants thereof; who may dispose of the same as they think it convenient, oh their leaving what is necessary to the public use."
And the respondents say, that the vacant lots are of great value;
and cannot be disposed of unless they shall be indemnified by the
government, &c.
A general replication was filed by the district attorney in behalf
of the United States.
Statements of facts signed by the parties appear in the record.
If this cause be considered on the broad grou id on which it is
presented by the facts and the arguments of counsel, it is one of
great importance. In one view, the title to property of the value of
several millions'of dollars, depends upon its decision; and in any
aspect in Which it may be considered, principles of the civil law, and
the usages and customs of the governments of France and Spain,
and also, it is insisted, important principles of the common law, as
well as the effect of certain acts of our own government, are involved.
In the able arguments which have been heard at the bar, these
topics .have been elaborately examined and variously illustrated; and
it now becomes the duty of the court to pronounce their opinion in
the case. Being constituted the organ of that opinion, the matters in
controversy will be considered under the following arrangement.
1. The rights of 'the plaintiffs in error, by the principles of the
common law.
2. Their rights undei- the awsldand usages of, France and Spain.
3. The interestwof .tie United States in the properly claimed by
the city, and" their jurisdi'cirn over it.
That property may bededicated to public use, is-a well established
principle of tte conmton law.: It.
is founded in public convenience,
and has been sanctioned by the. experience of ages. Indeed, without
such a principle, it would be dificult, if not impracticable, for society
in a state of advanced civilization, to enjoy those advantages which

,1ANUARY TERM 1836.
[New Orleans v. The United States.]

belong to its condition, and which are essential to its accommodation.
The importance of this principle may not always be appreciated,
but we are in a great degree dependent on it for our highways, the
streets of our cities and towns, and the grounds appropriated as
places of amusement or of public business, which are found in all
our towns, and especially in our populous cities.
It is not essential that this right.of use should be vested in a corporate body ; it may exist in the public, and have no other limitation
than the wants of the community at large.
This court had occasion to consider this doctrine in two important
and leading- cases, which lately came before them, and.which are
reported in 6 Peters. The first one was the City of Cincinnati v.
The Lessee of White.
In 1789, the original proprietors of Cincinnati. designated, on the
plan of the town, the land between Front street and the Ohio river,
as a common for the use and benefit of the town for ever. A few
years afterwards a claim was set up. to this common, by a person
who had procured a deed from the trustee in whom the fee of the
land was vested, and who had entered upon the common, and'claimed the right of possession. The proof of dedication being made out
to the satisfaction of the court, they sustained the rights claimed by
the city. At the time the plan of the city was adopted by the proprietors, and this ground was marked on the plat as a comrnon, they
did not in fact possess the equitable title to the space dedicated ; but
they shortly afterwards purchased ihe equitable,title, and it was held
that under the purchase the prior dedication was good.
In their opinion, the court refer to a great number of decisions of
this court and others, in this country, and also of the highest courts
in England, to sustain the principles upon which the decision was
founded. The doctrine 'is now so well settled, and so generally
understood, that it cannot be necessary to cite authorities in support
of it.
In the case of Barclay and others v. Howell's Lessee, the same
principle was sanctioned, as applicable to facts somewhat variant
from those which constituted the Cincinnati case.
In 1784, the representatives of William Penn, in whom the -proprietary right of Pennsylvania was vested, by their agent, laid out
the town of Pittsburgh. The original plan of the town, the court
say, "shows thdt it was laid out into lots, streets and alleys, from the
VOL. x.-4 P

SUPREME COURT.
(New Orleans v. The United States..

junction of the Alleghany and Monongahela rivers, extending up
the latter to Grant street. With the exception of Water street, which
lies along the bank of the Monongahela, all the streets and alleys of
the town were distinctly marked by the surveyor, and their width
laid down. Near the junction of the rivers, the space between the
southern line of the lots and the Monongahela river is narrow, but
it Widens as the lots extend up the river.
"From the plan of the town it does not appear that any artificial
boundary, as the southern limit of Water street, was laid down.
The name of the street is given and its northern boundary, but the
space to the south is left open to the river. All the streets leading
south terminate at Water street, and no indication is given in the
plat, or in any part of the return of the surveyor that it did not extend to the river, as it appears to do by the face of the plat."
And the surveyor being dead, his declarations at the time of making the survey, that Water street should extend to the river, were
sanctioned as evidence; and it appearing that the convenience of the
town required the extension of this street to the river; and there being no statement or line marked on the plat of the town as opposed
to it; and as the public for thirty years or more, in some parts of the
town, had thus used the street; and that property had been bought
and sold in reference to it, in this form : it was held to be sufficient
evidence of its having been dedicated to, the public. The street thus
extended afforded a, large and convenient space for commercial purposes along the shore of the river, beyond what was required for a
street.
On the 26th of September 1712, about thirty-eight years after
Louisiana had been taken possession of by Lasalle, in the name of
the king of France, a charter was granted by the king to Crozat,,
conferring on him exclusive rights for commercial and other purposes, over a great extent of country, which included the territory
that now forms the state of Louisiana.
The absolute property in fee simple was vested in him, of all the
lands he should cultivate, with all buildings, &c., he taking from
the governor and intendant grants, which were to become void on
the land ceasing to be improved.
The laws, edicts and ordinances of the realm, and the custom of
Paris, were extended .to Louisiana. This charter was afterwards
surrendered by Crozat to the king; and a new one was granted on
the 6th of September. 1717, to a corporation styled the Western Corn-

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[New Orleans v. The United States.]

pany. The land, coasts, harbours and islands in Louisiana, were
granted to this company, as they had been to Crozat, "it doing
faith and homage to the king and furnishing a crown of gold, of the
weight of thirty marks, at each mutation of the sovereignty."
The power is given to this company to grant land allodially.
And under its auspices, the ground where the city of New Orleans
now stands, was selected as a place frthe principal settlement of
the province. A short time afterwards, the foundation of the city
was laid, by the construction of a few huts and other improvements.
In 1724, and also in 1728, by the facts proved, it seems, maps of the
town were made, on which the vacant space, now in controversy,
was designated by the name of quay.
The Western Company continued to act under its charter until
January 1732, when, with the king's leave, the charter was surrendered, and a retrocession was made by the company of the "property, lordships and jurisdiction of Louisiana."
The town of New Orleans was established, and thie plan, as designated in the maps referred to, adopted, while the'country was
under the jurisdiction of the Western Company; and the dedication, to public use, of the vacant space in contest, was made by
it, so far as a dedication is shown by the plan and the indorsement
of the word quay upon ii.
In the agreed facts, a quay is admitted to be a vacant space betweeri the first row of buildings and the water's edge, and is used
for the reception of goods and merchandize imported or to be exported. In the Civil Code of Louisiana, a quay is said to be "common property, to the use of which, all the inhabitants of a city, and
even strangers are entitled in common, such as the-stieets and public walks."
The term is well understood in all commercial countries; and
whilst there may be some differences of opinion as to its definition,
there can be little or none in regard to the popular and commercial
signification of it. It designates a space of ground appropriated to
the public use : such use as the convenience of commerce requires.
This entire vacant space has been used for the purposes to which
it was appropriated ; with but occasional and slight interruptions, to
small- portions of it; from the establishment of the designation 6f the
quay in 1724, until the present time. The interruption8 referred to,
were not such as deprived the public of the proper use ofthe ground.
They were generally of a temporary nature, and weie permitted,

.716

SUPREME COURT:
[New Orleans v. The United States.]

where private accommodation was in some degree connected with
the public convenience. Temporary shops and baths, which were
constructed upon this ground, were of this character.
The public established, at different times and for different purposes, buildings of a more permanent description ; but these were,
rendered necessary for the public service, and they seem not to have
encroached, to any injurious'extent, on the public use of the quay.
Some of these buildings have long since disappeared, and any of
them which may still remain, do not subject the city or the public
to ariy inconvenience.
The city authorities, at afn early day, would scarcely be expected
to object to the-construction of barracks on this space, for the accom-"
modation of the soldiers, which were there stationed for the prote8tion of the city. And much less would they be expected to object
to the use of the common for the occasional performance of military
evolutions.
The customhouse and public warehouse, erected on this ground
by the Spanish government, have disappeared; and the construction of the present customhouse on the quay, by the federal government, in 1819, cannot be consioured as affecting the original dedication.
It may be convenient for the city to have the customhouse situated
on this ground, and it does not interrupt the public use.
Two or three grants to small lots of ground within this common,
were made under the Spanish authorities; but under the present
head of inquiry, it is unnecessary to examine whether these acts were
not the exercise of arbitrary power,- by the Spanish officers, and be-.
ing in derogation of vested rights, should not be held as nullities.
If these titles were given in the exercise of a discretion, still they:
would not go to abrogate a vested right, only to the extent of,the
titles. But this question will be more. particularly examined hereafter.
Suppose, on the common at Cincinnati, or on the vacant space
connected with Water street at Pittsburgh, it had been proved that
the state had constructed a customhouse, or temporary barracks,
would such acts have been considered as disproving adedication.
Clearly they would not ; nor would grants for one or two lots within
either space, unadvisedly issued and in derogation of vested rights,
have been so considered.
The. title to Penn and his heirs was allodial, and we have seen

JANUARY TERM 1836.

717

[New Orleans v. The United States.]

that the Western Company was authorized to make such titles.
Like the heirs of Penn, the Western Company waw proprietor of a
great extent of territory, and the dedications were made under circumstances somewhat similar; but the proof of dedication of the
common or quay at New Orleans,. is incomparably stronger than was
found in the Pittsburgh. case.
It appears that this quay has been greatly enlarged, by the alluvial formations of the Mississippi river; and. from this fact an argument is drawn against the right of use in the city, at least to the
extent asserted.
The history of the alluvial formations by the action of the waters
of this-mighty river, is interesting to the-public, and still more so to
the riparian proprietors.
The question is well settled at common law, that the person whose
land is bounded by a stream of water, which changes its course gradually by alluvial formations, shall still hold by the same boundary,
including the accumulated soil. No other rule can be applied on
just principles. .Every proprietor whose land is thus bounded, is
subject to loss, by the same means which may add to- his territory:
and as he is without remedy for his loss, in this way, he cannot be
held accouintable for his gain.
This rule is no less just when applied to public, than to private
rights. The case under consideration will illustrate the principle.
If the dedication Pf this ground to public use be established by the
principles of the common law, is it not of the highest importance
that the accumulations of the vacant space, by alluvial formations,
should partake of the same -character and be subject to the same use
as the soil to which it becomes united ?
If this were not the case, by the continual deposits of the Mississippi, the city of New Orleans wotld, in the course of a few years,
be cut off from the river, and its prosperity impaired. If the city can
claim the original dedication to. the river, it has all the rights and
privileges of a riparian proprietor. .
But there is another consideration of great weight on this sub ject.
It appears that the city, from time inmemorial, has been compelled
to construct at great expense, and keep in repair, levees, which resist,
the waters of the river and preserve the city from inundation. If it
were not for these levees or embankments, it appears from the facts
proved, that not only. the city of New Orleans, but the country, to a
,great extent, bordering on the lower Mississippi, would be uninhabit-

SUPREME COURT.
[New Orleans v. The United States.]

able. These works resist the current of the river; eddies are formed,
and the deposits rapidly accumulate. In this way has twe vacant
space been greatly enlarged Within twenty or thirty years past.
This enlargement of the quay cannot defeat or impair the rights
of the city ; and the question only remains to be answered, whether
the facts in this case, by the principles of the common law, show a
dedication of this vacant space to public use.
No one can doubt, that the answer must be in the affirmative.
The original dedication is proved by the maps in evidence, and by
a public use of more than a century. These facts are conclusive.
The right of the city is_.sanctioned by time, and established by uncontroverted facts.
No case of dedication to public use has been investigated by this
court, where the right has been so clearly established.
What effect the acts of the federal government, and the acts of
the' corporation of the city may have upon this right, will be considered in another branch of this case.
As the rights claimed by the city bad their origin under the laws
of France, and were enjoyed for nearly forty years under the laws of
Spain, it becomes necessary to examine those laws, to ascertain the
nature and extent of these rights. On this ground the claims of the
city have been earnestly and ably, if not confidently resisted, in the
argument. The laws of France and of its colonies, it is admitted,
prevailed in Louisiana from its first settlement until the 25th November 1769, when they were abrogated by O'Reilly, captain-general
under the king of Spain.
On the part of the defendants in error, it is contended, that the
corporation of the city has no title whatever to the soil, or to the use
of the premises in question : and great reliance is placed on a decision
lately made by the supreme court of Louisiana, in the case of C. G.
De Armas and M. S. Cucullu v. The Mayor, Aldermen, &c. of the
city of New Orleans. Two of the three learned judges Who compose
that court lay down principles, in their opinions in that case, which
are inconsistent with the right asserted by the city in this case: and
it is insisted that this decision, which disaffirmed the right set up by
the city, is conclusive on this court.
So far as the present controversy may be supposed to arise under
the laws of the United States, or the treaty of cession, itis clear
that the decision of the Louisiana court cannot be considered as settling the question. In the argument on behalf of the government.

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[New Orleans v. The United States.]

the principle. is laid down,.1hat by the laws of France, a city or
town could not acquire a right or title to the soil.of immovables, or
to the use of them, without letters patent from the king. And Domat, with other authorities, is referred to, who, in treating of communities, declare, as a primary rule, that they should be established
for the public good, and. by order or permission of the prince.
By the third section in the statement of facts, it appears that towns
in the. French colonies, were never incorporated like those of the
United States; they are founded in virtue of orders emanating-from
the government, or from the minister of marine, and transmitted to
the governors of the colonies, and their administration was confided
to intendants, who had authority to enact the necessary public
regulations.
It is insisted that no reasons are assigned why the law of France
was not complied with, by issuing a grant, if the dedication of this
common was in fact made. That the plan of the town may be presumed to have been made, and the ground in contest designated, as.
appears on the maps, for other purposes than those supposed by the
city authorities. That. the maps were for a long time lost sight of,
and could not have been considered as evidence to supply the place
of a grant: had this been the case, they would have been preserved with care. But the most conclusive argument against this
dedication is, it is said, that until the town was incorporated by letters patent, it Was incapable of taking by grant. And the decision
of the supreme court of Louisiana is referred to as sustaining this
doctrine.
Great respect is due to the opinions of the two learned judges who
made this decision; and especially on questions arising under the
civil law, with the principles of which they must be familiar. Still
it would seem that a ready answer may be found to at least some of
the objections stated by the counsel. In the first place, the dedication of this common was made by the Western Company, who had
power to make grants; and ignorance of their rights, by the inhabitants of the city, or of the necessary evidence to establish them, affords no very satisfactory proof against the existence of those rights.
And, if reasons can be assigned, why this ground was designated
on the plat as a quay, which show that such indorsement could not
have been designed as a substitute for a grant ; yet, in the absence
of satisfactory reasons, is it not fair to presume in favour of a servitude which has been enjoyed by the city for more than a century ?

SUPREME COURT.
(New.Orleans v. The United States.]

Whether the retrocession of Louisiana, its jurisdiction, &c., by

the Western Company to the king of France, could affect the rights
peviously granted by it, may be hereafter considered.
It is admitted that th6 power of the sovereign over the streets of
a city, is limited. He cannot alien them, nor deprive the inhabitants of their use, because such use is essential t.o the enjoymenlt of
urban property. And a distinction is drawn, in this respect, between
tile streets of a city and other grounds dedicated to public use. The
latter, it is contended, is not only under 'the supervision of the king,
as to its use, but he may sell and convey it.
Now, it would seem, in reason, that the principle is the same in
both cases. The inhabitants of a town cannot be deprived of their
streets, as the streets are esserttial to the enjoyment of their property.
In other words, by closing the streets, the value of the buildings of
the town would be greatly reduced, if not entirely destroyed. And
if ground dedicated to public use, which adds to the beauty, the
health, the convenience and the value of towh 'property, be arbitrarily appropriated by- the sovereign to other purposes, is not the value
of the property, which has been bought and sold in reference to it,
greatly impaired ? . The value may not be reduced to the same ruinous. extent, as it would be to close the streets, but the difference is
only in the degree of the injury, and not in the principle involved.
Domat, liv. 1, title 8, sec. 1, art. 1, says, there are two kinds of
things destined to the common use of men, and-of which every one
has the enjoyment. The first are those which are so by nature; as
rivers, the sea and its shores. The second,.which derive their-character from the destination given them. by man ; such. as streets,
highways, churches, markethouses, courthouses, and other public
places; and it belongs to tlose in whom the power of making laws
and regulations in such matters is vested, to select and mark out
the places which are to serve the public for these different purposes."
But, it is said, if the dedication was made by'the king, the citizens
of New Orleans, or the public, did not acquire a right paramount to
his. And that having a right to regulate the use, and the fee never
having been conveyed by him to the city, by grant or otherwise, he
must of course retain the power of disposing of the property.
The right of the king to this property, is compared to the right of
a city, which is vested with the fee and the use; and as in such case
the corporation may dispose of the property dedicated with the sanc-

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[New Orleans v. The United States.]

tion of the sovereign power; the sovereign, it.is contended, having
the right of property aid the -pwer to regulate the use, may alien.
-And it is said, that this suipervision.of, the use by the king, ivas a
doctrine peculiarly applicable to Louisiana and. the city of New Orleans, where the changes are so frequent by the continbal formations
on the-shores of the Mississippi, in addition to increase, of popttlation
and business, which often require alterations in the streets ahd other
public places.
Though certain places may be dedicated to public purposes by the
supreme power, and may be said to be withdrawn from commerce,
still it is insisted where no grant has been made, and private rights
have not become'vested in the property, it is not withdrawn from the
sovereign power.
This argument goes upon the fact, that the title to the quay remained in the king of France, which is a controverted point.
That the king, under the law of nations, was entitled to the right
of soil of Louisiana, is not contested. The same rights belonged to
the" sovereign of France in this -respect, as have been accorded to
other European sovereigns who made discoveries on this .continent;
but the conclusion which is drawn from this, that, as no grant was
given, the king had a right to alien the ground in contest, the same
as any other part of Louisiana, is not admitted.
This argurnett in behalf of the power of the king of France over
the common, is founded upon the supposition, that the cession of the
country to the king by the Western Company, destroyed the rights
which had become vested under it ; and also, that as no grant for
the land in contest has been proved, none can be presumed.
The doctrine of presumption is as fully recognised in the civil as
it is in the common law. It is a principle which no enlightened
tribunal, in the search of truth, and in applying facts to human affairs.
can disregard.
The retrocession of Louisiana to France by theWestern Company,
did not abrogate the rights which had been acquired under it. All
the grants to individuals made by the company were respected; and
there is -no act by the French government, from the foundation of
the city to the transfer of the country in 1769 to Spain, which 'shows
that this dedication was not as much resperted and sanctioned by
the king, as were the grants to private citizens. Does not this long
acquiescence of the monarch, and enjoyment of the property by the
city, afford some evidence of right.? But in addition to this -consiVOL. x.-4 q

SUPREME COURT.
[New Orleans v. The United States.]

deration, itappears in evidence, that from the time the plan of the
city was adopted until !he country was ceded to Spain, numerous
transfers of property were made, in which the property is described
as being bounded by this quay ; and also, many official transactions
of public officers, in which the quay is recognised and referred to.
This shows in what light this vacant space was considered by the
public, for nearly fifty years after the dedication was made: and it
is hot probable that this subject could have been wholly overlooked
by the king. The plan of the city, containing the designation of
this qpay, was published by Charlevoix in his Hietoire de la Nouvelle France, and perhaps by Voltaire. It is true, that New Orleans
contained at this time a very limited population; but it is matter of
history, that not many years after the foundation of the city was
laid, the most splendid scheme of commercial enterprise, connected
with banking operations, was projected in France, in reference to
Louisiana. So excited did the public mind become on tiis subject,
and so generally was the public attention directed to it, that there is
little probability the dedication of this common could have escaped.
the notice of the king of France. It was not, probably, deemed too
large for the accommodation of a city which was to become the emporium of a country of such vast resources.
The public use of this common for so great a number of years,
and the general recognition of it from the time it was dedicated, in
numerous private and official transactions, and the acquiescence of
the French king, offered. no unsatisfactory evidence of right. If a
grant from the king were necessary to confirm the claim of the city,
might it not be presumed under such circumstances ?
But suppose the dedication had not been made by the Western
Company, and the title were admitted to be in the king, as decided
by the supreme court of Louisiana ; is it clear that he had the power
to alien the ground at pleasure?
It cannot be insisted that the dedication of this property to public
use, whether the title to the thing dedicated became vested in the
city or its use only, could withdraw it from the political jurisdiction
of the sovereign power. This would place property of this description on a higher and more sacred, principle than private property.
But in no point of view can fthis be the case.
That a jurisdiction to a limited extent was exercised by the king
of France over the quays of Paris- and the public grounds of other
cities in the kingdom, such as permitting buildings to be constructed

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[New Orleans v. The United States.]

thereon and regulating the manner and extent of such occupancy,
is admitted; but this power seems to have been i6 the nature of a
police regulation, and was so exercised as Was not incompatible with
the public use of the grounds. This authority, however, does not
prove that the fee or the right of use was not in the public, or that
the king had power to convey the lands.
Domat says, "rivers, their banks, highways, are public places
which are for the use of all, according to the laws of the country.
They belong to no individual and are out of commerce ; the king
only regulates the use of them." And again, in vol. 2,,lib. 1, tit.
8, sect. 2, 3 and 16 : "we class public places, as out of commerce;
those which are for the use of.the inhabitants of a city, or other place,
and in which no individual can have any right of property, as the
walls, ditches or gates of a city, and public squares."
. In Domat, b. 1;-tit. 8, sect. 2, art. 19, it is said:
"if it should happen
that some buildings on a public square should be constructed, they
might either be demolished if they should prove any way hurtful or
incunvenient, or be suffered to stand upon condition of their paying
a rent, or making some other amends to the public, if found to be
more advantageous to let them remain, either because they would
be an ornament to a market place, or other public place, or because
of the rent they would yield, or other advantages that might be made
of them.
Judge Martin, who dissented from the- opinion of the superior
-court in the case above cited, says, "of public places, the public may
claim the use'by exhibiting evidence of. a dedication to its profit, by
the sovereign or pater familias, without any letters patent, grant or
deed."
And "of places which are alleged to be the exclusive property of
the town-or city, or of which the exlusive right to use is claimed,.
letters patent, a grant, -or deed, must be produced.
The power of appropriating private property to public purposes is
an incident of sovereignty. And it may be, that by the exercise of
this power, under extraordinary emergencies, property which had
been dedicited to public use, but the enjoyment of which was prin.
cipally limited to a local community, might be taken for higher and
national purposes, and disposed of on the same principles which subject private property to be taken.
In a government of limited and specified powers like ours, such a
power can be exercised only. in the mode provided by law; but in an

SUPREME COURT.
[New Orleans v. The United States.]

arbitrary government, the swill of the. sovereign supersedes all rule
on the subject.
But it must be admitted that while the French laws ond usages
may show the nature and extent of the right of the public to this
common, as it was originated and regulated by them, for nearly half
a century ; yet it is to the Spanish laws and usages we must chiefly
look in determining this hyead of the controversy.
From the abrogation of the French laws in Louisiana by O'Reilly in
1769, until the country came into the possession of the United-Slates,
the laws of Spain acted upon and governed the rights in controversy.
The retrocession of the country from Spain to France, and the cession
of France to the United States followed so soon afterwards, that
these transfers, it is admitted, caused no interruption to the laws of
of Spain.
Louisiana was ceded by France to Spain without any abridgement
of the vested rights to property enjoyed by private individuals or communities. The rights of the city of New Orleans were in no respect
affected by this cession, unless they have been affected by the action.
of the Spanish laws ; and we will now examine this point.
The fundamental laws of the Spanish nation, and which are understood to be alike binditig on die king and the people, are found
in 'the Partidas and the Recopilacion.
The 9th law, tit. 20, of Partida 3, contains the following: "the
things which. belong separately or (severally) to the commons of
cities or towns are fountains of water, ihe places where the fairs or
markets are held, or where the city council meet, the alluvions or
.sand deposits on the banks of rivers, and all the other uncultivated
lands immediately contiguous to the said cities, and the race grounds,
and the forests and pastures, and all such other places which are
established for the common use."
The 23d law, tit. 32, of Partida 3, is as follows: "no one ought.
to erect a house or other building or works.in the squares, nor on
the commons, (exidos) nor in the roads which belong to the commons
of cities, towns or other places; for as these things are left for the

advantage or convenience and the common use of all, no one ought
to take possession of them, or do, or erect any works there for his
any one contravehes this law, that
own particular benefit; and -if
which he does there must be: pulled down and destroyed; and if the
corporation of the place where the wbrks are constructed choose to
retain them for their own use, and not pull them. down, they way

JANUARY TERM 1836.
(New Orleans v. The United States.]

do so;. and they make use of the revenue they derive therefrom in
the same manner as any other revenues they possess; and we moreover say, that no man who has erected works in any of the abovementioned places can or shall acquire a right thereto by prescription."
In the Recopilacion, law I, b. 4, tit. 15, is the following: "whereas, in our kingdoms, persons hold and possess some cities, towns,
villages, and civil and criminal jurisdiction, without any title from
us, or from the kings our predecessors; and it has been doubted
whether the same could be acquired against us and our crown by
any-time: we do ordain and corimmand, that ifiniernorial possession,
proved in the manner, and under the conditions required by the law
of Toro, which is law the 1st, tit. 7, b. 5, ofrthis Recopilacion, be
sufficient to acqtiire against us.and our successors, any cities, towns,
villages, use or jurisdiction civil or criminal, and thing or part thereof
annexed or belonging thereto. Provided, that the time of said prescription be not interrupted by us, or by our command, naturally or
civilly. But the supreme, civil or criminal jurisdiction which kings
have, by their sovereignty and kingly power, which consists in exercising and having justice done, when other lords and judges do not;
we do ordain, that this cannot be acquired or prescribed by the said
time or any other; and likewise what the laws say cannot be acquired by time, must be understood .ofthe imposts and tributes coming to or owing to us."
And again, Recopilacion, law I, tit. 7, b. 5, is the following law:
"we do ordain, that the mayorazgo [mayorat of the French, entail in
English] may be proved by dhe instrument of its institution, together
with the written permission of the king who authorised it: provided
the said instruments are authenticated ; or by witnesses, who testify
in the form required by law, to the tenor of the same, and likewise
by immemorial custom proved, establishing that the former possessors have held and possessed the property or mayorazgo ; that is to
say, that the eldest legitimate sons and their descendants used to
inherit said property, as such, when the holder thereof left other son
or sons, without leaving them any thing equivalent to what those
who succeeded to the ,nayorazgo received ; provided the witnesses
be of good reputation, and declare that they have seen it thus for
forty years, and heakrd their seniors say that. they always saw it, and
never heard the contrary said, and that it is a matter of public voice,

SUPREME COURT.
[New Orleans v. The United States.]

notoriety and opinion, amongst the inhabitants or residents of the
place."
In the Novissima Recopilacion, b. 7, tit. 16, law 1, is the following: "our pleasure and will is, to preserve their rights, rents and
property to our cities, towns and places, and not to make any gift of
any thing of them ; Wherefore we command that the gift or gifts
which we may make, or any part of them, to any person whatsoever,
are not valid."
A faithful observance of these laws would have preserved the
rights of the city, as to the common, free from invasion. No law
was cited in the argument which showed the power of the king of
Spain to alienate land which had beenadedicated to the public use :
and it is clear that the exercise of such a power would have violated
the public law, which is understood to have limited the exercise of
the sovereign power in this respect.
The king of Spain, like the king of Prance, had the power to give
permission to construct buildings on grounds dedicated to public use,
without injury to the public rights; but this does not show that
either sovereign had the power to alien such lands.
In the 3d Partida, law 3, tit. 32, the sovereign was authorized to
grant permission to build on public. places. Apd the comment of
Rodriguez, 15 and 16, is, that the building must be so constructed
that no one should be injured in his right thereby; because the privileges granted by princes are understood to be granted without prejudice to third persons.
On the 22d February 1770, O'Reilly, governor, &c. of Louisiana,
published an ordinance, in conformity to law, "to designate city
properties and rents belonging to the city of New Orleans ;" and
among other regulations, "six dollars were required to be paid by
each boat of the tonnage of two hundred tons, &c. for right of anchorage, established and destined to the keeping in repair of the levee
or dyke, which does contain the river within i4s limits; in the whole
front of the city, &c." This regulation was to continue during
the pleasure of his majesty.
As power was given to the king of Spain, by law, to grant permission to build on public places, it would seem to follow, that such
places were not only withdrawn from commerce, hut that the king
could not alien them. For if he had the power to do this, in as unlimited a manner as over the crown lands, it would, include the exercise of every minor authority over them. If he could sell and con-

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[New Orleans v. The United States.]

vey the lands dedicated to public use, surely he might, without any
authority of law, grant permission to build on such lands.
But, as it appears from the evidence in this case, that permission
was not only given to conetruct buildings on this common, but that
a part of it was granted in fee, it is contended that this is evidence of
the. king's power, not only to regulate the use of this common, but
to convey it in fee. And the leading case of Arredondo, 6 Peters
691, is referred to, as sanctioning the principle, that a grant, issued
by a Spanish functionary, is not only evidence of title, but also that
the officer had the power to issue it.
In that-case this court did hold, and the same principle has been
sanctioned in numerous cases since, that a grant should be considered
as prima facie evidence that it was rightfully issued; but that it
might be impeached by any one who set up an adverse claim.
We will examine the grants made, under Spanish authority, to
any part of this common, and other acts of jurisdiction over it exercised by the government of Spain, which have been proved by the.
evidence.
On the 14th of June 1792, Carondelet, governor, intendant, &c.,
granted to Liotaud, a lot of ground'situated within this common;
andin the grant he says, "making use of the power which the king
has vested in us, we grant in his royal name," &c,
And on the 10th August 1795, another grant was made of a lot
in the common to Mentzinger, by the same governor.
In 1793, Arnaud Magnon, a master carpenter, represented, by petition to the governor and intendant-general, that he had built a barge
for the public, and as a compensation therefor, he asked eighteen or
nineteen feet on one side of his house to enlarge it, the same being
very small, and that the same was granted to him, but that he had
no instrument of writing as evidence of the same, and which he
solicits.
And he also represented to the intendant-general, that his dwelling house having been included in the conflagration of 1788, that
governor Miro pernuitted him to construct a small house near the
river, "on the inner side of its dyke," and in consequence of this
misfortune, and his having built a barge, &c. a small portion of land
of eighteen to nineteen feet adjoining his house, bad been granted
to him. That he was afterwards allowed to build a shed for the
convenience of ship buildings, &c., and he prays that a title may be
granted to him for the lot.

728

SUPREME COURT.

[New Orleans v. The United States.]
This petition was submitted to the attorney-general, who reported
that it appeared to him, "it would be an act of injustice to refuse
the petitioner the corresponding titles of property tiat heolicits;"

for, "although the council of this city might have sonrib objec'tion,
on account of the said lot being- situated within its precincts, this opposition may be easily overcome, by the certainty that if Mirgnon
did not occupy the said lot, it would be necessary that another should
occupy it, owing to the necessity and usefulness of said .ship yard to
the public."
It does not appear that this claim was ever carried into grint, by
the Spanish authorities.
In.1783, on the petition of Etienne Planche, who represented himself to be a carpenter and calker, and having much work which he
could not do in his yard, &c.,.he asked permission to build 'ashed in
front of his house, which was not to be closed, &c. This leave was
given, and he, and those claiming under him, occupied the ground
for many years, but no grant was ever obtained from the Spanish
governor for the lot.
Catharine Gonzales, widow of Bertrand, set up a claim; and it
appears that on the petition of her former husband he was permitted
to rebuild his house on the common, which. had fallen into decay,
which was allowed by the governor, &c. But no grant was ever issued by the Spanish authority for this lot.
These permissions to build were given by the governor and intendant, under the law, which has been cited, that authorized the sovreign to grant permission to construct buildings on the public
grounds.
This was not considered inconsistent with.'the public use, as the
powerwas not to be exercised to the prejudice* of third parties.
The three lots for which grants were issued, it must be admitted,
under the circumstances, is such a final disposition of the property
as is wholly incompatible with the public righ.
For the fee of these
lots was not only granted, but also the use.
This transfer of the fee, it is contended, affords conclusive evidence
that the title to the common remained in the king, and having, in
addition to this, the power to regulate its use, he could alien it at
pleasure.
If this power was possessed by the king, why was the authority
given, in the law w'hich has been stated, to grant permission to con-'
struct buildings on public grounds?' This power, as appears from

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[New Orleans v. The United States.]

the record, was exercised over the common in controversy, and only
in three instances were lots granted absolutely. In the case of the
Mayor, &c.,-of New Orleans v. Bermudez, decided by the supreme
court of Louisiana, 3 Martin 309, the court say, "however contradictory. these expressions may appear to be, the worst conclusion
which can be drawn therefrom against the city of New Orleans is,
that they had not that kind of possession which is the consequence
of an absolute right of ownership. Yet the sovereign having never
thought fit to exercise any further right over these commons, and
the claim ofthe city to them having been recognized and confirmed
by the successor of that sovereign, t1he inhabitants of New Orleans
must be considered as having never ceased to be the rightful possessors of that land," &c.
And in the same book, 303, the court say, "in the year 1795, ihe
baron Carondelet, then governor of Louisiana for the king of Spain,
granted to Henry Mentzinger, the appellee, a lot of ground, situated
in the city of New. Orleans, close to the Levee, &c.
"But the appellants contend, that the spot on which it is located
is part of the public highway, and, therefore, could not have been
.lawfully granted for private use, even by the king himself.
"That public places, such as roads and streets, cannot be appropropriated to private uses, is one of those principles of public law,
which required not the support of much argument. Nor is there
any doubt, that if, by a stretch of arbitrary power, the preceding
government had given away such places to-individuals, such grants
might be declared void.
"But is this grant located in a street, or on the public road ? On.
this important question of fact, the evidence, produced by the appellant is, 'by no means satisfactory.' They show, that'according to
general usage in this country, the public road in front of the river
is close to the Levee. But could there be no derogation from that
usage? Was that usage observed within the city of New Orleans?
Does not the convenience of placing 'Markets and other public places
as near the water as possible, as it is recommended bythe law of
the Indies, make it necessary to deviate from such usages in citiesl
"General usage, however, is the only.ground on which the appellants rest their pretensions. No. plan of the city has been exhibited, to show that the lot of the appellee is located upon a place
which had been reserved for public use; no testimony has been adduced to prove, that this spot is part of the ground laid out' for the
voiL. x.-4 R

SUPREME COURT.
[New Orleans v.'The United States.]

public road. We are called upon to declare this grant void, merely
because the -general usage of the country is to place the road next
the Levee."
From this opinion it would seem, that if there bad been satisfactoryproof before the court, that the ground in controversy had been
appropriated to public use, the decision, instead of being favourable
to the grantee, would have been against him.
There can be no difference in principle, between ground dedicated
as a quay to public use, and the.streets and alleys of a town: and
as to the streets, it may be asked, whether the king could rightfully
have granted them. This will not be pretended by any one. And
it is believed, that the public right to a common, is equally beyond
the power of the sovereign to grant : unless he dispose of it under
the power to appropriate property to the national use; and then compensation must be paid..
The grant to Liotaud was also contested by the city authorities;
but it was decided against them on a ground which did not embrace
the merits of the claim; -on the part of the city, as now presented.
I speaking of this cdse, Mr Justice Maltin, in his able and learned opinion in the case of De Armas and Cucullu v. The Mayor of
New Orlkans, &c., says: "in Liotaud's case, the then plaintiffs Iaboured under the inability to establish the appropriation to the public
use, by the founder of the city of New Orleans, of the space which
separates the first row of houses from the Mississippi..
"The appellants stated their ability to establish that, immediately
after the grant; iXWrftnurs had beenexcited; and the inalienability
of any part of the space -having been tenaciously insisted on, the
governor had revoked his -grant, and indemnified the grantee, by
the concession of the lot on one of the streiets: but the court decided
the testimony was inadmissible, and the witnesses were not heard."
"Magnon," the same judge remarks, "was a ship builder, and
the ship yard was between the Levee and the water. The governor,
deeming the builder's residence near it necessary to the public service, allotted him a space of ground to live on near the yard, but on
the opposite side of the levee. The question arising out of this grant
was not litigated ; the city agreeing to compensate Magnon for the
relinquishment of his claim." This lot, however, though a part of
the ground alleged to have been dedicated to public use, is not
within the common or quay contested in this case.
And it appears from the above opinion, that to prevent any other
titles being made for any part of the common, certain proceedings

JANUARY TERM 18 6.
.ew Orleans v. The United States.]

were instituted by the attorney-general, at the instance of the city
authorities, which prevented the emanation of any other grants for
any part of the quay, until the country was ceded to the United
States.
From a careful examination or the jurisdiction exercised over this
common by the governments of Franceand Spain, and the laws
which regulated this description of property in both countries, the
conclusion seems not to be authorised, that it was considered as a
part of the public domain or crown lands, which the king could sell
and convey. This power was not exercised by the king of France,
and the exercise of the power by the Spanish governor in the instances stated, was in violation-of the laws of Spain, and equally against
its usages.
The land, having beendedicated to public -use, was withdrawn
from commerce; and so long as it continued to be thus used, could
not become the property of any individual. So careful Was the king
of Spain to guard.agaiust the alienation of property which had been
dedicated to public use, that in a law cited, all such conveyances
are declared to be void.
It would be a dangerous doctrine to consider the issuing of a grant
as conclusive evidence of right in the power which issued it. On itE
face it is conclusive, and cannot be controverted ; but if the thing
granted was not in. the grantor, no right passes to the grantee. A
grant has been frequently issued by the United States for land which
had been previously granted; and the second grant has been held to
be inoperative. And.in a case recently decided by this court, where
the government had granted land in the state of Ohio, as land belonging to the United States, which was found to be within the Virginia reservation in that state, to satisfy certain military claims, it
was held, that the title did not pass under the grant. If, then, the
common in question had been dedicated to public use so as to withdraw it from commerce, and so vest the title in the public as to
preserve it from alienation by the king, the grants issued for the
lots stated, cannot affect the right of the public, at least beyond the
limits of those grants.
That both the kings of France and Spain could exercise a certain
jurisdiction over this common, and other places similarly situated,
has been stated; but this was a police regulation, and wits rightfully
exercised in such a manner as not to encroach upon the public use.
This seems to be the result to Which a careful examination of the
laws and usages of both countries must lead us.

SUPREME COURT.
[New Orleans v. The United States.]

We come now to examine, under the third head, the ipter est of
the United States in the property claimed by the city, -and their
jurisdiction over it.
The first article of the treaty of cession is as follows : "whereas,
by the article the third of the treaty,' concluded at St Ildefonso the
1st October 1800, between the first consul of the French republic
and his catholic majesty, it was agreed as follows: his catholic majesty promises and engages, on his part, to retrocede to the French
republic, six months after the full and entire execution of the conditions and stipulations herein relative to his royal highness the duke
of Parma, the colony or province of Louisiana, with the same extent
that it now has in the hands of Spain, and that it had when France
possessed it, and. such as it should be after the treaties subsequently
entered into betweerr Spain and other states." And in behalf of the
French republic, the first consul ceded, "for ever and in full sovereignty, the said territory, with all its rights and appurtenances, as
fully and in the same manner as they have been acquired by the
French republic," &c.
And in the second article it is declared, that in the cession. "are
included the adjacent islands belonging to Louisiana, all public lots
and squares, vacant lands, and all public buildings," &c.
Under this treaty Louisiana was ceded to the United States in full
sovereignty, and in every respect, with all its rights and appurtenances, as it was held by h republic of France,' and as it was received by that republic from Spain. And it is insisted,.that the same
rights of jurisdiction and property which appertained to the sovereign
of Spain, under its laws and regulations, were, by the treaty, transferred to the United Slates: and that whether this right extends to
the fee of the property in contest, or the regulation of its use, it is
contended that this court must take jurisdiction of the case, and
restrain the city authorities from seUing any part of it.
To show that the federal government has considered this common
as a part of the public domain, under-the treaty, various laws of congress have been referred to, and official prpceedings by the agents of
the government, in reference to it-; and. also it is shown, that the
action of the government has been' solicited ' by the city authorities,
who, by these acts, it is insisted, .have acknowledged the right of
property to be in the United States, as asserted in their behalf by the
district attorney of Louisiana. We will refer more particularly to
those acts.

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[New Orleans .v. The United States.]

On the 26th March 1804, congress passed an act, "erecting Louisiana into two territories, and providing for the government thereof;"
in the fourteenth section of which it was provided, that all -grants
for land within the territories ceded by France,' the title of which
was, at the date of the treaty of St Ildefonso, in the crown, &C.of
Spain, were declared to be null and void." Provided, nothing in.the
section was to make void any bona fide granti agreeably to the laws,
usages, &c. of the Spanish government. An act entitled "an act
for ascertaining and adjusting the titles and claims to land, within
the territory of Orleans, and the district of Louisiana," was passed
on the 2d March 1805. This act, after specifying what titles under
the Spanish government should be held valid, and requiring the
evidences of title to be exhibited, &c., authorized the appointment of
a register, who, with two commissioners to be appointed, were to
constitute a board for the decision of land claims in the territory, &c.;
and their report was required to be laid before congress, &c. And
by an act of the 3d March 1807, it was provided, "that the claim
of the city of New Orleans to the commons adjacent to said city,
and within. six hundred yards of the fortifications of the same, -be,
and the same is hereby recognised and confirmed: provided, that
the corporation shall, within six months after passing this act, relinquish and release any claim they may have to such commons beyond
the distance of six hundred yards aforesaid," &c.
Other acts were passed in relation to land claims in the district,
which it cannot be necessary to notice.
Arnaud Magnon, whose claim has been before referred to, applied
to the commissioners under the above act to report on land titles,
&c., who reported : "we know of no law or usage of the'Spanish
government respecting claims similarly situated : but thiok it highly
probable, that had the claimant applied he would have obtained a
grant for it, as a grant. was made to a lot of ground adjoining him
under no higher pretensions. Nor does this appear to come within
any of the provisions of the laws of the United States, although there
have been ten consecutive years' possession ; the land has not been
inhabited or cultivated. This part of the claim we do not feel
ourselves authorized to decide on ; but are of opinion, that, in justice,
the claim oughtto be confirmed."
And, on the claim of John J. Chess&, the commissioners report,
that "they did not feel authorized to make any decision on the claim;

SUPREME COURT.
[New Orleans v. The United States.]

but they thought it would be more an act of justice than generosity
-if the government should confirm -it."
A similar report was made on the claim of Catherine Gonzales
and Peter Urtubuise. Their claims were for lots of ground within
the common: and they have been confirmed by acts of congress;
and patents have been issued to the claimants.
The claim of the city to the commons was presented by P. Derbigny and L. S. Kerr; whowere duly authorized to present it in:behalf of the city. And the commissioners reported : "that the claim
was in part settled by the acts of congress of 1,807 and 1811 ; which
confiim to the corporation six hundred yards from the fortifications
of the city; but which are, nevertheless, embraced by the claim
aforesaid. That they had in vain searched in the documents to
which they were referred for proof of even a shadow of title to this
land. That there was no evidence of it ever having been granted
or considered as belonging to the city, either by the French or Spanish government.. The board, therefore, rejected the claim."
On the 3d of April 1812, congress "passed an act granting to the
corporation of the city of New Orleans the -use and possession of a
lot in the said city."
By this act the city "was auLLIorised to .se, possess and occupy
the same, for the purpose of erecting, or causing to be erected and
kept in operation a steam engine or engines for conveying water
into the said city.; and all. buildings necessary to the said purpose:
provided, that if the space of ground shall not be occupied for the said
purpose within the term of three years from and after the passing
of this act, or shall, at any time thereafter, cease to be so occupied
for the term of three years, the right and claim of the United States
thereto shell remain unimpaired."
And by an act of the 30th of March 1822, " the corporation of the
city of New Orleans was authorized to appropriate so much of the
lot of ground on which fort St Charles formerly stood as may be necessary for continuing Esplanade street to the Mississippi river; and,
also, to sell and convey that portion of the said ground which lies
below said street," &c.
By the act of the 20th of April 1818, congress authorized the president to abandon the use of the navy arsenal, military hospital and
barracks in the city of New Orleans; and, after laying off the ground
into lots, to sell them at public sale, &c. And he was authorized to
cause the fort St Charles to be demolished, and the navy yard in the

JANUARY. TERM 1836.
[New Orleans v. The United States.]

city to be discontinued ; and the lot of ground on which the fort
stood was appropriated to the use of a public square, to be improved
as the corporation of the city should think proper. These acts related to lots within the common of the city; though but few of them
are included in that part 6f the ground respecting which this suit
was commenced.
These official acts of the federal government, by legislation and
otherwise, respecting the common claimed by the city, and some of
which were induced by the special application of the corporation,
afford strong evidenc, it is contended,not only of the right of the
United States to the property in. question, but that such right was
fully recognized by the corporation.
It must be admitted, that several of these acts are unequivocal in
their character, and do show, as contended by the attorney-general,
an admission,_on the part of the city, not only that congress. had a
right to legislate on this subject, but also to dispose of certain parts
ofthe common in fee. And these acts, if unexplained, do strengthen
the argument against the claim set up by the. city.
It is a principle sanctioned as well by law as by the immutable
principles of justice, that where an individual acts in ignorance of
his rights, he shall not be prejudiced by such acts' And this rule
applies at lea'st with as much force to the acts of corporate bodies,
as to those of individuals. We will, therefore, inquire, as we are
bound to do, whether, under the circumstances of this case, the acts.
of the city can, justly, be considered as prejudicing the claim which
they assert.
in the first place, the fact that when we obtained possession of
Louisiana, the city of -New Orleans was composed of citizens who,
in their language, habits of thinking and acting, were almost as dissimilar from other parts of the United States, as if they had inhabited
a different continent, is of great importance; and, above -all, they
were unacquainted with the nature of our government, in a great
degree, and the principles of our jurisprudence.
They may be supposed to have been acquainted with the civil
law, and to some extent, at least, with their rights as recognized and
sanctioned by the laws and usages of Spain.
It is well known that the policy of Spain in regard to a disposition
of her public domain, is entirely different to that which has been
adopted by the United States. We dispose of our public lands by
sale; but Spain has uniformly bestowed her domain in reward for

SUPREME COURT.
[New Orleans v. The United States.)

meritorious services, or to encourage some enterprise deemed of pub-

lic utility.
That a community, composed, as were the citizens of New Orleans, almost entirely of foreigners, and under the circumstances
which existed, should have mistaken their rights, is. not extraordinary. Indeed, it would have been a matter of surprise if they had,
under the new system, understood-the extent of their claim. They
did exhibit their claim to the commissioners, who rejected it. And
this, no doubt, induced the corporation to make the applications to
congress which have been noticed.
But in addition to the consideration that the city authorities, probably, acted in ignorance of their rights, it may be safely assumed,
that they had not the power, by the acts referred to, to divest the
city of a vested interest in this common.
We come now to inquire whether any interest ih the vacant space
in contest, passed to the United States under the treaty of cession.
In the second article of the treaty, I.*"all public lots and squares,
vacant lands, and all public buildings, fortifications, barracks, and
other edifices, which are not private property" were ceded. And it
is contended : as the language of this article clearly includes the
ground in controversy ; whether it be considered a public square or
vacant land; the entire right of the sovereign of Spain passed to the
United States.
The government'of the United States, as was well observed in the
argument, is one of limited powers. It can exercise authority over
no subjects, except those which have been delegated to it. Congress
cannot, by legislation, enlarge the federal jurisdiction, nor can it be
enlarged under the treaty-making power.
If the common in contest, under the Spanish crown, formed a part
of the public domain or the crown lands, and the king had power to
alien it, as other lands, there can be no doubt that it passed under
the treaty to the United States, and they have a right to dispose of it,
the same as oiher public lands. But if the king of Spain held the
land in trust, for the use of the city, or only possessed a limited jurisdiction over it, principally, if not exclusively, for police purposes, was
this right passed to the United States under the treaty ?
That this common, having been dedicated to public use, was
withdrawn from commerce, and from the power of the king rightfully to alien it, has already been shown; and also, that he had a
limited power over it, for certain purposes. Can the federal govern-

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[New Orleans v. The United States.]

ment exercise this power . If it can, this court has the power to
interpose an ijdnction or interdict to the sale of any part of the
comnon by the city, ifthey shall think that the facts authorize such
an interposition.
It is insisted that the federal government nay exercise this authority, under the power to regulate commerce.
It is very clear,' that as the treaty cannot give this power to the
federal government, we must look for it in the constitution ; and that
the same power must authorize a similar exercise of jurisdiction over
every other quay in the United States. A statement of the case is
a sufficient refutation of the argument.
Special provision is made in the constitution, for the cession of
jurisdiction from the states over places where the federal government shall establish forts, or other military works. And it is only
in these places, .or in the territories of the United States, where it
can exercise a general jurisdiction.
The state of Louisiana was admitted into the union, on the same
footing as the original states. Her rights of sovereignty are the
same, and by consequence no jurisdiction of the federal government,
either for purposes of police or otherwise, can be exercised over this
public ground, which is not common to the United States. It belongs to the local authority to enforce the trust, and prevent what
they shall deem a violation of it by the city authorities.
All powers which properly appertain to sovereignty, which have
not been delegated to the federal government, belong to the states
and the people.
It is enough for this court, in deciding the matter before them, to
say, that in their opinion, neither the fee of the land in controversy,
nor the right to regulate the use, is vested in the federal government; and, consequently, that the decree of the district court must
be reversed, and the cause remanded with directions to dismiss the
bill.
As it is not necessary, we do not decide on the right of the corporation to sell any part of the common, or to appropriate it in any
other manner than as originally designated.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from
the district court of the United States for the eastern district of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel; on consideration whereof, it is
VOL. x.-4

9

738

SUPREME COURT.
[New Orleans v. The United States.]

ordered, adjudged and decreed by this court, that the decree of the
said-district court in this cause be, and tie same is hereby reversed
and annulled. And this court, proceeding to render such decree as
.the said district court ought to have rendered in the premises, doth
order, adjudge and decree that the bill of the complainant in this
cause be, and the same is hereby remanded to the said district court
of the United States for the eastern district of Louisiana, with directions to the said district court to carry this decree into effect.

