JANUARY TERM 1836.

625

JOHN M'LEARN AND OTHERS, ALIENS AND SUBJECTS OF THE KING
OF GREAT BRITAIN,' APPELLANTS V.

JAMES WALLACE, A CITIZEN

OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA, ADMINISTRATOR OF JAMES HtNDLET
M'LEARN, AND

ARCHIBALD M'LELLAN AND WIFE, CITIZENS OF

THE STATE OF SOUTH CAROLINA.
ARCHIBALD M'LELLAN ANDWIFE, CITIZENS OF THE STATE OF SOUTH
CAROLINA,

COMPLAINANTS

THE STATE

V.

JAMES WALLACE,

A CITIZEN OF

OF GEORGIA, ADMINISTRATOR OFIJAMES

HENDLET

M'LEARN DECEASED.
JAMES WALLACE, A CITIZEN OF THE STATE OF GEORGIA, ADMINIS-

TRATOR OF JAMES HENDLEY M'LEARN DECEASED V. ARCHIBALD
MLELLAN AND WIFE, CITIZENS OF THE STATE OF SOUTH CAROLINA, AND

JOHN M'LEARN AND

OTHERS, ALIENS

AND SUBJECTS

OF THE KING OF GREAT BRITAIN.

A tract of land id the state of Georgia was purchased by A. M'Learn, on which he
established a rice plantation, put slaves upon it, paid part of the purchase money,
gave a ju~dgment for the balance, and died, leaving a son, James H. M'Learn, his
devisee; who, to obtain possession ofthe estate,mortgaged the land and slaves for the
balance of the judgment. A judgment, under the laws of Georgia, binds personal
as well as real property. The son died, part of the debt being unsatisfied: leaving
as his nearest of kin, aliens; and also more remote kindred; who were citizens of the
United States; The real estate was sold to satisfy, and did satisfy the mortgage.
The personal estate was sold by the executor. The aliens, who were nearest of
kin, claimed the proceeds of the personal estate. The kindred of the deceased
who were more remote, but who were citizens of the United States, claimed that
the personal estate should have been appropriated to pay the mortgage; and that
not having been so appropriated, they were entitled to the money arising from its
sale, to reimburse them for Xihe value of the real estate taken by the mortgagor,
the aliens nearest of kin not being entitled by the law of Georgia to take real
estate by descent. The court held, that as both the real and personal estate had
been charged with the mortgage debt, both funds must be applied, in proportion to
thei- respective amounts, to its payment. Any debt, not covered by the mortgage,
to be paid out of the personal estate. The nearest of kin to take the residue of
the proceeds of the personal estate, and the remoter kin citizens of the United
States, to take the residue of the proceeds of the real estate, and the real estate
unsold.

APPEAL from the circuit court of the United States for the-district
of Georgia.
VOL. x.-4

D

SUPREME COURT.
[M'Learn v. M'Lellan.]

Archibald M'Learn, a native of Scotland, and afterwards a citizen
of the United States, purchased a tract of land called Gowrie, and
a small island, in Ch'athan county, in the state of Georgia, on
which he established a rice plantation ; and having paid part. of
the purchase money, a judgment was obtained against him for the
balance. He died, having devised the whole of his estate, real and
personal, to his son, James H, M'Learn. The property of the testator consisted, chiefly, of the plantation in Chatham.county, and the
negroes by which it was cultivated. By the laws of Georgia, all the
property of the testator, both real and personal, was bound by the
judgment against Archibald M'Learn.
James H. M'Learn, holding under the will of his' father Archibald M'Learn, the -whole of his estate, thus incumbered -by the
judgment for the balance of the purchase money due for the land,
in order to obtain possession from the executors of the will, who
insisted on keeping possession until the debts due by the testator
were paid; gave to the creditor of his father his bond for the unpaid
balance of the purchase money, and executed a mortgage to secure
the payment of the bond, on the rand, and on the negroes belonging
to the estate. He paid a part of the debt, and died without issue,
and intestate; leaving a balance of the original debt for the purchase
money unpaid, and secured by the bond and mortgage.
•The mortgagee foreclosed the mortgage, and sold the land for
19,739 dollars 13 cents : thus satisfying the whole of the claims of
the creditors of Archibald M'Learn and James H. M'Learn, for the
original purchase money of the real estate, and for the interest on
the same.
James Wallace administered to the estate of James H..M'Learn,
sold all the 'personal property, and after paying all the iemaining
debts of his intestate, there was a balance in his hands,.in 1833,
exceeding 21,000 dollars ; which he invested, by agreement of all
interested, for the benefit of whoeveir might be entitled to the same.
The nearest of kin to James H. M'Learn, were John M'Learn
and others, who were aliens, residing, at the time of the decease of
the said James H. M'Learn, in Great Britain, and were subjects of
the king of that kingdom.
The wife of Archibald MILellan was more remotely related in
blood to the intestate, and she and her husband were citizens of the
state of South Carolina, at the time of his decease; and she was
the nearest of kin to him, capable of inheriting his real estate, accord-

JANUARY TERM 1836.'
[M'Learn v. M'Lellan.]

ing to the laws of Georgia, which do not allow aliens to inherit land.
As the next of kin-capable of inheriting, they claimed the real estate
of James H. M'Learn.
John M'Learn and wife, and the aliens nearest of kin to the intestate, filed a bill in the circuit court of the United States for the
district of Georgia, against James Wallace, administrator of James
H. M'Learn, and against Archibald M'Lellan and wife, the remoter
kindred of the intestate, citizens of South Carolina. The bill prayed
that the complainants should be declared entitled to the estate, real
and personal, of James Hendley M'Learn; that the same should be
delivered to them, and the cash in the hands of the administrator
should be paid to them. The bill also prayed, that Archibald
M'Lellan andwife should be decreed to have no interest in the real
estate; and for other and farther relief.
. Archibald M'Lellan and wife filed a bill in the same court against
John M'Learn and others, the alien kindred of' the intestate, and
against James Wallace, his administrator. The bill prayed that the
corinplainants may be declared entitled to so much of the real estate
of James H. M'Learn, as remained unsold ; that the alien kindred
of the said James should be decreed to have no interest in the lands;
and that the administrator should be decreed to account to them for
the' whole of the personal estate remaining after the payment
of the debts of his intestate ; and to account to them forthe amount.
of the sales of the land, and to pay to them the value of the said
land sold, out of the proceeds of the personal estate remaining unadministered, and for other and further relief, &c.
James Wallace, the administrator of James H. M'Learn, filed his
bill of interpleader, claiming the protection of the court, exhibiting
an account ; and offering to deliver the unadministered part of the
estate to such party as the court may adjudge to be entitled to receive it.
The circuit court decreed that Archibald M'Lellan and wife, as
the nearest of kin to James H. M'Learn, capable under the laws of
the state of Georgia, of inheriting real estate; they being citizens of
the United States at the time of his decase; were entitled to the whole
of the real estate of which James H. M'Learn died seised and possessed ; but. the. same having been sold, the court allowed them the
money for the part sold, and all the real estate unsold : and to John
M'Learn and the aliens, the court allowed the remaining part of the
estate, after the payment to Archibald M'Lellan and wife of the sut
of 19,739 dollars I3,cents, the amount the plantation sold for, less

SUPREME COURT.
[M'Learn v. M'Lellan.]

the costs of suit, &c. The sum decreed to be paid to John M'Learn
and wife amounted to 1557 dollars 35 cents. The administrator,
James Wallace, was decreed to pay' those sums to the parties respectively, and to deliver the title deeds, &c.
From these decrees, John M'Learn and others, aliens, appealed to
this court.
The case was submitted to the court, on the part of the appellants,
by Mr Berrien, on a printed argument, handed to the court by Mr
White; and was argued at the bar by Mr Preston, for Archibald
M'Lellan and wife.
Certificates from gentlemen of distinguished legal acquirements,
and many of whom had held high judicial stations in the state of
Georgia, were laid before the court in support of the construction given
by the counsel for the appellants, of the laws of Georgia; and the application thereof in cases of intestacy in the courts of that state.
Mr Berrien contended:
1. That the debts of an intestate, whei:ber by simple contract or
by specialty, are chargeable equally on his real estate and personal
estate in Georgia. The law of England, which declares the latter
to be the pri'mary fund for that purpose, and marshals the assets to
enforce that liability, by the exoneration of the.real estate, is not the
law of Georgia.
2. Even in England, the debt for which the land was sold, under
the mortgage given by James H. M'Learn; having been contracted by
Archibald M'Learn, and being for the unpaid purchase money of the
same land; such debt, notwithstanding the bond and mortgage given
by James H. M'Learn, ought, as between his representatives, to be
charged on the land.
3. In the worst aspect of the case, the personal estate could only
be liable to, contribution.
4. In any event the commissions on the sales of the land, cannot
be charged to the personal estate.
The printed argument of Mr Berrien was prefaced by the following " preliminary remarks."
"The degrees of kindred of the respective parties are not in controversy-neither is the accouht of the administrator; but there is one
,questjon, to which the attention of the court is called, before enterIg into the general argument; because if ddcided in favour of the

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[M'Leam v. M'Lellan.]

complainants in the first bill, it disposes of the whole case. It is,
whether those complainants, although aliens, and therefore incapable
under the laws of Georgia, of holding the real estate specifically, are
not, under those laws, entitled to its proceeds.
"Prince's Dig. 135, art. 15.
"Although aliens are incapable of holding lands, they are entitled
by this act to take the proceeds of real estate, as devisees, or next
of kin, of a deceased citizen. It recites that vexatious lawsuits had
been prosecuted by the escheators against the estates of citizens,
who had bequeathed their estates to persons residing in foreign parts,
and provides that their lands may be sold, and the proceeds paid
over. The iords of the recital are confined to persons dying testate,
citizens who bequeathed their estates; but the enacting clause applies also, to cases of intestacy, for it authorizes the executor, or administrator. to sell such re~al estate, and pay over the proceeds tothe
devisees, or legal representatives of the deceased. It authorizes this,
however, only where the citizens shall die, leaving no heir who can
inherit the same, because of his being an alien ; and the argument,
against which we have to contend is, that when any of the kindred
of the deceased, however remote, are citizens, their claims, as to the
real estate, will prevail over those of the devisees, or nearest of kin,
being aliens. Such is the letter of the act, the words being, ' shall
leave no heir, &c. &c.' Sed qui ha~ret in litera, hEeret in cortice.
Its manifest intention is, to remove the disability of alienage, from
the next of kin, or devise of a citizen; and these words, ' shall leave
no heir, &c. &c.' may, without any extravagance of version, be construed as equivalent to a provision in the following words: 'shall leave
next of kin, or devise to persons who are incapable of taking because
of their being aliens.' It was the design of the legislature to permit
a citizen to leave his real estate to the natural, or selected objects of
his bounty ; not specifically, for that the policy of the law was supposed t9 forbid, but by a sale and delivery of the proceeds.
"This view is confirmed by the act of 1789, which declares, that
'should any case arise which is not expressly provided for by this act,
respecting intestate's eslates, the same shall be referred to, and determined by the common law of the land, as it hath stood, since the
first settlement of this state, except, only, that real and personal property shall always be considered, in respect to 'such distribution, as
being precisely on the same footing.' Now here is a case of distribution of an intestate's estate, not expressly provided for by that act;

SUPREME COURT.
[M'Learn v. M'Lellan.j

and according to the argumentwe are contesting, the real and personal estate would be disposed of in a different manner. But the
act itself declares, that the .common law, modified by its own express
provisions, shall constitute the rule. The. common law inhibits an
alien from holding real estate, but permits him to hold personalty.
This act provides that these two species of estates shall be precisely
on the same footing in respect to distribution. How are these conflicting provisions to be reconciled ? Must the disability of alienage,
which the common law confines to the realty, be extended to the
personal estate; or shall the privilege of holding personalty,, be extended to the real estate? It is only in one of these two modes that
the requirement of the act of 1789, that real and personal estate shall
be in respect to distribution, precisely onthe same footing, can be
complied with; unless by a liberal. interpretation of "the act of 1810,
(Prince 135) the claim of the alien to take the proceeds of the estate,
is admitted."
1. Upon the first point it was contended, that the course of legislation in Georgia, had been, uniformly, to put real and personal estate
on the same footing for the payment of debts, as well as for other.
various purposes. The doctrine of the common law of England,
,which gives land to the heir, and chattels to the executor or administrator, has never been recognized in the state. Both species of
property pass under the laws directly to the executor or administrator, to be applied by him as assets in payment of debts ; or for distribution among the next of kin of equal degree.
No person is known, under the lawsof Georgia, as heir, in contradistinction to the distributees of a decedent, as they are identical;
unless in such a case as. this now before the court, where it is said
the disability of alienage intervenes to incapacitate the nearest of
kin from taking the real estate. But in this case, the more remote
kindred must sustain their claim, if it may be sustained, under the
statute of distributions of Georgia; and do not take by descent at
common law.
In support of these positions, he cited, Wat. Dig: 15, 29, 313,414;
Prince's Dig. 559, art. 160 ; Prince's Dig. 160, art. 42.
The courts of Georgia have gi'en effect to the provisions of the
constitution and laws of Georgia, which have been cited; and have
rejected the distinction which exists under the law of England between the heir of the'real, and. distributee or representative of thQ
personal estate; -nid with it the power which is exercised by (he

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[M'Learn v. M'Lellan.]

English courts of chancery, of marshalling the assets of a decedent's
estate, as between these parties.
By the laws of Georgia,. lands as well as chattels may be taken
in execution, and sold in precisely the same manner. The former
are assets for the payment of debts in the hands of an executor or
administrator, primaily or equally with the personal estate; and
without any proceeding against the heir to render them so. That
such -s the law of Georgia, was recognized by this court in the
case of Telfair v. Stead's Executors, 2 Cranch 406, 1 Peters's Cond.
Rep. 211 ; cited also, Prince's Dig. 211, 212, aft. 12; Dawson's Dig.
216 ; Dawson's Dig. 595; Prince's Dig. 158, art. 29.
The common and statute law of Great Britain, which were
"usually in force in the province of Georgia, in May 1776," and not
contrary to the constitution, laws and form of the government of the
state; were declared to be in force, "until repealed, amended or
otherwise altered."
It is necessary then, that M'Lellan and wife, who seek to enforce.
what they conceive to be the English rule in this case, should show,
affirmatively, that it was usually in force in Georgia in 1776; and
negatively, that it has not been since -repealed, amended or otherwise altered : which is believed to be impossible. The onus is with
them. But if this were not so, it seems very clear, that our own
legislation, and the decisions of our courts, will show, affirmatively,
that it is not the law of Georgia.
The whole course and spirit and purpose of the laws and decisions
of the courts of Georgia, have been in opposition to the rights which,
in England, form the policy which there prevails in favour of the
heir. The law of descents of Georgia is different. The right of.
creditors to enforce the payment of their debts is different ; and the.
marshalling of the assets of a decedent's estate is fixed and regulated
on dissimilar principles.
2. Will the English rule, which is appealed to in behalf of
M'Lellan and wife, sustain their pretensions ; the debt which has
been paid by the sale of the land, having been originally contracted
for the purchase of the same ?
Judgment for this debt was recovered against Archibald M'Learn
in his lifetime; and by the law of.teorgia, it bound all his property, and the plaintiff in the same could have levied for the debt
on either the real or personal estate, or on-both.
Such was the state of things on the death of Archibald M'Learfi.

SUPREME COURT.
[M'Leam v. M'Lelan.]

The judgment remained in full vigour; was an incumbrance upon
his estate, and capable of being enforced against his property, real
and personal, in the hands of his executors. James H. M'Learn,
who was the general devisee of his father Archibald, on coming of
age, in order to obtain possession of the property from the executors,
and on their requisition, substituted his bond and mortgage of the
land and negroes devised to him by his father, and on which this
judgment was an incumbrance.
The only change effected by this was to convert the general lien
existing under the judgment, on all the property of Archibald
M'Learn, into the specific lien created by the mortgage on the property mortgaged, and to re1 ?ase the remaining property; which is
shown, by the accounts of the administrator, to have been very small,
from the lien of the judgment.
Now keeping in mind that this was originally the debt of Archibald M'Learn, contracted by him for the purchase of this very land,
which is now claimed by M'Lellan and wife; and consequently that
it did not, as in the case of money taken up on mortgage, enure to
the benefit of his personal estate: it is submitted that even upon
the principles of equity, applicable to the subject, which are recognised in the English courts of chancery, no one of these circumstances can, nor can all of them combined, throw this debt, exclusively, or primarily, on the personal estate of James H. M'Learn.
We are not now called upon to consider the lien which a vendor has
for unpaid purchase money, as against his vendee, or a purchaser
from him. The point presented in this case, is between the kindred of
the general devisee of the vendee of the land: one claiming the land
purchased, the other admitted to beentitled to the personalty ; and
both asserting their claims under the statute of distributions of Georgia. As between them, until the purchase money is paid, it remains
chargeable in equity on the land purchased. Neither is this a question, whether the general, real or personal estate shall be charged
with this debt. The inquiry is more simple. It is whether the specific land purchased, but not paid for, by Archibald M'Learn, shall
bear its own burthen? Whether, upon any principle of equity,
M'Lellan and wife can claim this land under the statute of distributions of Georgia, and make the other kindred claiming under the
same statute, who have no interest in it, and neither have derived,
nor can derive any benefit from it, pay its price ? Cases cited and
examined as applicable to this point.: Hughes v. Kearney, 1 Sch. &

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[M'Learni v. M'Lel]an.]

Lefr. 13; Pollexfen v. Moore, 3 Atk. 236, 272; Cumberland v. Coddrington, 3 Johns. Ch. Rep. 252; Evelyn v. Evelyn,.2 P. Wins
664; Mathewson v. Hardwick, 2 P. Wms 664, note; Billingshurst
v. Walker, 2 Bro. Ch. Rep. 604; Bassett v. Percival, 2 P. Wins
664, note.
In concluding the argument on this point, it was submitted, that
as this debt was originally contracted by Archibald M'Learn, and
was a lien upon his property at the time of his death ; and as James
H. M'Learn did not, by giving his bond and a mortgage on the same
property which was before bound, make this his own debt, so as
to throw it upon his personal estate, as between the representatives of James H. M'Learn, it is not a debt exclusively chargeable
upon his personal estate, even according to the rule in the English
court of chancery.
3. The third point is not presented by the appellants as if this were
a case for contribution.
It is admitted indeed, that James H.
M'Learn, who was the proprietor of the whole estate, had a right to
charge any part, or the whole of it, with the payment of this debt ;
and that, in point of fact, he has so charged certain real and personal'
property belonging to the estate by way of mortgage. If the claim
of M'Lellan and wife, to be exclusively entitled to the real estate, be
sustained ; it will result that real and personal property, subject under
the mortgage to a common burthen, has become vested in different
persons : but it is also to be remembered, that this incumbrance was
created by the purchasc of the real property mortgaged ; that the
debt, to satisfy which this land was sold, was the unpaid balance of
the purchase money of the same land, for which the purchaser and
his heirs, however indefinite the series, were but trustees to the vendor, until the purchase money was paid.
As the court gave no opinion on the fourth point, the argument
is omitted.
Mr Preston, for the appellees.
The construction given to the law of Georgia, Prince's Digest,
135, art. 15, by the counsel for the appellants, is denied. It is contended that the proceeds of land will, under this law, go to aliens ;
although the real estate could not have gone to them after the death
of the owner.
The law referred to by the counsel was not intended to remove
the disabilities of alien s ; and this i shown in the title and the purVOL. x.-4.E

SUPREME COURT.
[M'Learn v. M'Lellan.]

pose of it. It is an act to explain the escheat laws. It had no view
to extend or modify the rights of aliens. The act of 1810 was intended to explain the act of 1805, and to correct the abuses under
it. The law is construed to extend to cases of tcstacy; and to put
an end to the vexatious acts of the escheators, in those cases.
By the laws of Georgia, as they exist, aliens cannot inherit real
estate; the estate is cast by descent on the heritable blood. The
real estate of John H. M'Learn then descended to the appellees ;
and the real and personal estate should go together. As they take
the real, so they ought to take both.
If this is the law of Georgia, then the appellees, M'Lellan and
wife, take all the property of James H. M'Learn, both real and per-sonal: and as the proceeds of the real estate have been absorbed in
paying a debt due by, and which ought to have been paid out of the
personal estate, the balance in the hands of the administrator should
be paid to the'appellees.
' The circuit court has decided that the balance of the personal
estate, after paying the debt for'which the real estate was sold, is to
go to the nearest of kin. This is not according to the law of Georgia.
In 1795, aliens were, by the laws of Georgia, allowed to hold real
estate by devise; but this act was repealed in the. following year.
Walker's Dig. 600. Thus the legislature, by positive enactment,
declared their determination that none but citizens of the United
States should hold a fee simple estate in lands.
As to the position of the appellant's counsel, that real estate is
chargeable equally with personal estate, by the law of Georgia; this
is denied.. It is admitted that the whole estate of one deceased is
liable for his debts ; but the primary fund is the personal property.
Attempts have been made in that state to make them equally
liable, but they have not succeeded so as to make them inseparable.
The heir-at-law takes the real estate, and the executor takes the
personal p~operty and-after the debts are paid, it goes, if they are
not aliens, to the personal representatives. The executors must pay
the debts out of the personal assets; and if any construction of the
law prevails so as to apply the, real estate in equal responsibility with
the personal, it is in opposition to the plain meaning of the law.
What is the fixed and settled general law of the state of Georgia
cannot be readily ascertained. It is difficult to obtain reports.of the
decisions of the courts, and there has been hitherto no court of errors
or appeals, having a general and final jurisdiction over cases which

JANI ARY TERM 1836.
[M'Learn v. M'Lellan.]

have-been decided in the courts of the state. What rights over, and
what interests in the real estate of a testator, do executors acquire
under.the laws of Georgia.? Prince's Digest 178.
The law authorizes executors to make titles to lands which the
testator, in his lifetime, contracted to sell and convey. If the executors took the lands, they could sell and convey without such a
provision, in the same manner as they may sell personal property.
The law, however, imposes peculiar solemnities; which must, in cages
of sales of lands, be observed by executors. It is therefore apparent
that lands are-not assets in the hands of an executor. By the law
of 1810 it must be admitted, that real property cannot, in case of
intestacy, go to an alien.. Prince's Digest 156. Can the proceeds.
of real estate, sold after the decease of the intestate, go to such alien?
The law is clearly established, that such proceeds have all the characteristics of the realty, and are governed by the same rules, and
subject to the same rights, as the real estate was.
What has an executor to do in Georgia ? The law provides only
for his care and distribution of the personal estate, and is silent as to
the realty. Prince's Dig. 171.
In all the states of the *union, personal property is first made applicable to the payment of debts due by a deceased person.
In 2 M'Cord's Chancery cases, it was held, that the English rule
prevailed in South Carolina. As between creditors, this was of no,
moment when they sought to enforce the payment of the debts due
to them; but as. to all others, the law is different.
The heir is entitled to the profits of the real estate immediately
after the death of the person last seised ; and the executor takes
the personal property. This shows the difference between the rights
of persons interested, and the clear distinction between them. The
heir holds.the land until it is sold; and even in the case of a will
giving executors power to sell land, no title to it is given; and the
heirs continue in possession until the sale.
Mr Justice Wayne stated, that in Georgia executors never sell
land for. payment of.debts, but by order of court. The same law
prevails in Georgia as in other states.
The common law of England is in force in Georgia except when
altered-by statute ; and it certainly cannot be claimed, that at the
common law such a right as that which is asserted by the appellants
would prevail,

SUPREME COURT.
[M'Learn v. M'Lellan.]

As to the second point presented by the counsel for the appellants,
it is contended that no proceedings by the creditor of the intestate
can impair or affect the rights of the heir. The creditors cannot
decide who shall suffer .by his actions, the heir or the next of kin.
He has a right to his debt; but the rights of others, after his debt is
paid, a'e left where he found them. By what rule will the court decide that the creditor may despoil the rights of the heir.
It is important that the court shall look at the facts of this case,
in considering the questions arising on this point. The estate of
James H. M'Learn was riot, at the time of his death, liable for the
debts of his father. He had extinguished the debt due as the purchase money of the estate, by substituting for it his own bond and
mortgage. Thus the lien on the land when it descqnded to him
was dissolved-was at an end. It was not then to enforce the principle of law that land continues liable to the lien of unpaid purchase
money, that the land was sold by the mortgagee.
This court has decided that the equity of the vendor for purchase money, exists only when he has taken no additional security
for his debt. So too it is waived by changing the security, and
this is considered as waiving the equitable lien. Brown v. Gilman,
4 Wheat. 55, 4 Cond. Rep. 445; same point, I Mason 191.
This was done by the creditors of Archibald M'Learn. They took
the bond and mortgage of James H. M'Learn; and they ceased to
have an equitable lien on the land for any balance of thepurchase
money.
The court will then sustain the decree of the circuit court, as to
the proceeds of the real estate remaining in the hands of the administrator. It is also asked that they will refuse to the appellants the
the portion of the proceeds of the personal estate which that court
gave to them.
Mr Justice M'LEAN delivered the opinion of the Court.
This case is brought before this court, by an appeal .from the
decree of the circuit court of Georgia.
From the evidence in the case, it appears that Archibald M'Learn
purchased a tract of land in the state of Georgia, on which he established a rice plantation, paid a part of the purchase money, and
suffered a judgment to be obtained against him for the. balance: that
he afterwards died, leaving James H. M'Learn, his only son and
devisee: that the property of the deceased consisted chiefly, of the

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[M'Learn v. M'Lellan.]

rice plantation, and the slaves .bywhich it was cultivated; and. that
under the laws of Georgia, personal as well as real property is bound
by a judgment. . That the devisee, to obtain possession of the property, gave his own bond, secured by a mortgage on the land and
slaves, for the balance of the judgment: he afterwards died, leaving
a part of this debt unsatisfied ; and that afterwards the mortgage was
foreclosed and paid by a sale of the land.
The complainants are aliens,. and being nearest of kin to the deceased, claim as heirs, under the law of Georgia, the personal property; and also the proceeds of the real estate, after the mortgage
shall have been paid.
The defenddnts, M'Lellan and wife, who are more remotely connected with the deceased, being citizens, claim the real estate as
heirs, and contend that the debts should have been paid by a sale of
the personal property; and that, as the real estate has been sold for
this purpose, they insist that the proceeds of this sale should be paid
to them out of the personal property.
It appears that after the sale of the land, on application of James
Wallace, the administrator, the personal property was- sold; and the
moneys'arising from this sale, as also a surplus, after paying the
mortgage, from the sale of the real estate, remain in his hands; and
which he is ready to pay over, as the court shall direct. The relationship of the respective' parties to the deceased, as set forth in
their pleadings, is not disputed.
On the part of the complainants it is contended, that being next
of kin to the deceased, under the laws of Georgia they inherit the
personal property and are entitled to the proceodg on the sale of the
lands. That the personal property goes to them, notwithstanding
their alienage is not controverted by the defendhnts ; but they insist
that the complainants are not entitled to the proceeds of the real
estate.
By an act of the legislature of Georgia, entitled an act to explain
and amend the escheat laws, passed the 15th December 1810, it is
provided, "that in all cases where a citizen of this state or of the
United States, shall die, or may have-died, possessed of or entitled to
any real estate, and shall leave no heir who can inherit the same,
because of him or her being alien ; that in such case the said real
estate shall not be held or considered subject to escheat, but the
executor or administrator of such deceased citizen shall and may
proceed, in the manner pointed out by law, to make sale of such real

SUPREME COURT.
[M'Learn v. M'Lellan.]

estate, and pay over the proceeds of such sale to the devisee or devisees named in the will of such deceased citizen," &c.
The preamble of this act refers only to the estates of citizens of
Georgia who bequeath their property to persons residing in foreign
parts; but the first section seems to refer as well to cases of intestacy,
as where wills have been made.
The complainants contend, that the words in this statute, "shall
leave no heir who can inherit," should be construed to mean, shall
leave no heir next of kin, or devisee', who can inherit, by reason of
alienage; that then the real property shall be sold and the proceeds
paid over as by the act is required. And that this construction will
give effect to the intention of the legislature; which was, to remove
the disability of alienage frioth the next of kin or devisee of a deceased citizen.
It does not appear that a construction of thisstatute has been
given by the supreme court of Georgia; and'we think the construetion contended for is not authorized by the words of the statute.
Where a citizen shall die leaving no heir, must mean not the next of
kin, but an heir that may inherit the real.estate under the laws of
Georgia.
In the present case, the wife of M'Lellan,. though remotely connected with the deceased, is within that degree of consanguinity
which may claim the inheritance under the law of descents; and of
course the land in question descended to her, and conseqwntly it
cannot be sold under the law of escheats, for the benefit of the foreign
heir.
This construction is not shaken by the act of the 23d December
1789, which provides that, "should any case arise which is not
expressly provided for by this act, respecting intestates' estates, the
same shall be referred to and determiped by the common law of this
land, as it hath stood since the first settlement of tbis.state; except
only, that real and personal estate shall always be considered in
respect. to such distribution, as being precisely on the same footing."
The case under consideration is not unprovided for by the laws of
the state ; as the personal property goes to the next of kin, though
they are foreigners, and the land descends to the domestic heir.
In the able printed argument of the complainants' counsel, it is
contended that the real estate, equally with the personal, constitutes
assets in the hands of the executor or administrator; and a great
number of statutes are referred to, in order to. sustain this position.

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[M'Learn v. M'Lellan.]

The administrator, it is said, may sell the land, and convey it under
the sanction of the court; and that in many cases it is sold for the
payment of debts, in preference to a disposition of the 'personal property. And it is stated, that in Georgia there.is no marshalling of
assets, as in some other states. That the creditor may, in satisfaction
of his demand, diiect the personal or real estate to be sold at his
option ; and that the same option may be exercised by the defendant
in execution.
It is unnecessary to refer to the various statutes of the state, which
have been noticed by the counsel for the com plainants. They are
similar to the statutes of other states, which make the real estate of
deceased persons subject to sale for the payment of debts ; and, under the sanction of the court, on the application of the administrators, authorize the sale of such estate. 'But this does not show that,
in the ordinary course of administration, the personal property is not
the primary fuhd for the payment of debts. Indeed, from the oath
of the executor or administrator, and his prescribed duty, as well as
various provisions in regard to the sale of land for the payment of
debts, it would seem, that the personal property, in the state of
Georgia; as in, perhaps, every other state of the union ; should be
exhausted, except under peculiar circumstances, before the land can
be sold.
The general management of the real estate, it seems, in Georgia,
during the minority of the heirs, devolves upon the executor or administrator: and from the representations of certain gentlemen in
the state, who have held high judicial stations, it appear.s, that the
executor or administrator does exercise a very great, if not unlimited
control over the management of the real estate of the deceased. It
is insisted that the real estate descends to the administrator as assets,
and that he may bring an action of jectment in his own name, to
recover the possession of it.
As there are no'regular reports of judicial decisions in Georgia,
we can derive but little aid from the adjudication of its courts on
questions which arise under the local law. But in the view which
we have taken of this case, it is of no importance to ascertain the
respective liahilities of the personal and real estate of deceased persons, for the payment of debts; nor, indeed, what may be the duties
of an executor or an administrator in the settlement of an estate.
These would be important in a controversy between the representatives of the estate and its creditors., The case under consideration

SUPREME COURT.
[M'Learn v. M'Lellan.]

does not arise from the claim of creditors, but it involves the rights
of distributees. And these rights are not affected by the ordinary
course of administration, but depend upon the peculiar facts of the

case.
Had the debt for the payment of which-the land was sold,-been
an ordinary debt existing against the estate, and the payment of
which was expected to be made by the common course of administration, there could be little or no difficulty in deciding that it should
have been paid out of the personal assets ; andas it had not been so
paid, to direct, as prayed for by M'Lellan and wife, that the payment from the real estate should be reimbursed by a sale of the
personal.
At the decease of James H. M'Learn, his estate, both real and
personal, was incumbered by a mortgage, for the. payment of which
the land was sold. And this mortgage was given in discharge of a
judgment which was obtained against his father,.Archibald M'Learn,
in his lifetime, and which bound the real and-personal property
covered by the mortgage. A considerable part of this debt was incurred, it seems, by the purchase of this plantation. But the argument that the vendor and his assignee have an equitable lien on the
land for the -purchase money, seems not to be well founded.
That this equitable lien'exists equally in the hands of the vendor
or his assignee, is a well settled principle ; but the lien was discharged by the mortgage, which added a large amount of personal
property to the real estate to secure the payment of the purchase
money.
To learn the nature of the incumbranc, on the estate, we must
look to the mortgage and the judgment, both of which created a
lien upon the whole property ; and also to the debt of the vendor, for
which thejudgmen. was obtained., The lien under the mortgage was
more favourable to the estate than the lien under the judgment for
which it was substituted; as it gave time to the devisee, and placed
the estate in his possession and under his control.
With this incumbrance, created in the manner and under the circumstances stated, did this estate, both real and personal, on the
decease of James H. M'Learn, descend to his heirs. The personal
estate goes to the foreign heirs, and the real estate to the domestic;
and this gives rise to any difficulty which exists in determining this
controversy.
If the whole estate descended either to the foreign or domestic

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[M'Learn 'v.
M'Lellan.]

heirs, it would be an ordinary case of distribution; and it could be a
matter of little importance whether the mortgage were paid by a
sale of the real or personal property. But under the circumstances
of the case, it becomes o matter of great importance to the respective
claimants, out of which fund this mortgage debt shall be paid. The
payment of it,
out of the real or personal property, will leave but a
small balance to the heirs of that fdnd.
The principles of this case are not changed by the sale of the
property. The funds realized from the sale, in equity partake of
the same character, and are subject to'the same rule as the property
which they represent. * It is, therefore, a matter of no importance
whether the debt has been paid obut of the personal -or real fund; or
indeed, whether it has been paid at all. The court must consider
the case as thou!-h the real estate were still vested in the South
Carolina heirs, and the personal property in the heirs who live in
Scotland. 'Inthe final decree; it will be necessary to act upon the
funds as they now exist in the hands of the administrator.
The important question must nov be considered, how this mortgage debt shall be discharged. Shall it be paid out of the real
estate, or out of the personal, or out of.both?
That the land should not be wholly exempt from this incumbrance,
is clear by every rule of equity which applies to cases of this description. In addition to the consideration that the mortgage binds the
land, the fact that a considerable part of the debt was incurred for
its purchase, cannot be wholly disregarded. Nor would it comportwith the principles of equity to make the whole-debt a charge upon
the land, to the: exemption of the personal property ; as the lien of
the mortgage covers the personal as well as the real property, and
as at least a part of the debt was contracted on other accpunts than.
the purchase of the land.
The righis of the foreign heirs, under the laws of. Georgia, are to
be regarded equally as those of the domestic heirs. Each have interests in 'the property of the deceased, which are alike entitled to the
'consideration and protection of a court
of chancery.
Suppose James H. M'Learn had died leaving a will, by which he
devised different tracts of lard to different persons capable of taking
by devise, and the entire real estate was incumbered by a mortgage,
or other lien, which, after the will took effect, had been paid by sale
of one of the tracts of land. Could a court of chancery hesitate, in
such a case, to require a contribution from the devisees, not affected
VOL. x.-4 F

SUPREME COURT.
[M'Learn v. M Lellan.]

by the sale, so as to make the lien a charge upon all the-land ? The
plainest dictates of justice would require this, whether regard be had
to the rights of the devisees, or to the intention of the testator. And
is not ihe case put, analogous to the one under consideration ?
By the nct of the elder M'Learn, his property, both real and personal, was inctimbered..
The heirs, both foreign and domestic, of the younger M'Learn,
who lake this property, take it charged vth the continued incumbrance. That James M'Learn had a right, and was bound to continue this charge upon his property, no one will dispute. He might
have left the debt, with the conseit of the creditor, if there had been
no ptior lien, to be discharged out of his estate, as the law authorized ; and in such case it would have been' payable out of the personal estate. Or he might have mad6 the debt a specific charge on
his personal property, or on his real; but he did nei'ther. He charged
its payment, in pursuance of the judgment lien, on his property both
personal and real.
This lien, as between the distributees, fixes the rule by which.
their rights must be decided. The domestic heirs cannot claim to
receive the land free from the lien of the mortgage, nor can the foreign heirs claim the personal property exempt from it. In equity it
would seem that each description of heirs should contribute to the
payment of the mortgage debt, in proportion to the fund received.
This rule, while it would do justice to the parties, would give effect
to the intention of the ancestor. That intention is clearly shown by
the lien created on the property, and by the rules of equity, such intention must be regarded.
The decision of this case must rest upon familiar and well established principles in equity; and these principles wil! be shown by a
reference to adjudicated cases. In the case of Pollexfen v. Moore,
3 Atk. 272; it appears, Moore, in his lifetime, agreed to purchase an
-estate from the plaintiff for 1200 pounds, but died before he had paid
the whole purchase money. Moore, by will, after giving a legacy
of 800 pounds to the defendant his sister, devises the estate purchased
and all his personal estate to John Kemp, and makes him his executor.
The executor commits a devastavit bn the personal estate and dies, and
the estate descends upon his son and heir at law. Pollexfen brought
his bill against the representative of the real and personal estate of
Moore and Kemp, to be paid the remainder of the purchase money.
Mrs Moore, the sister and legatee of Thomas Moore, brings her

JANUARY TERM. 1836.

643

[M'Learn v. M'Lellan.]

cross bill, and prays, if the remainder of the purchase money.should.
be paid to Pollexfen out of the personal estate of Moore and Kemp,
that she nay stand in his place, and be considered as having a
lien upon the purchased estate for her legacy of 800 pounds.
And the lord chancellor sail, "that theestate which has descended from John Kemp, the executor of Moore, upon Bayle Kemp,
comes to him liable t.6 the same. eqniil.y as it would have been against
the faiher who has misa plied the personal. bslate: and in .order to
relieve Mrs Moore,, I will direct Pnl!cxfen to take his satisfaction upon
the purchased esiate, because he ha.4 an equitable lien both upon the
real and personal .estate, and will leave this last fui'id open, that Mrs
Moore, who can at most be considered only as a siI-ple contract creditor, may have a chance of being paid out of the personal assets."
This case shows, that in England the rule which requires the
personal property to be first applied in the payment of debts, is deviated from where the justice:of the case and the rights of parties
interested, require it.
Had the debt due to Pollexfen been directed-to be paid out of the
personal property, it would have left no part of that fund to pay the.
legacy of Mrs Moore; and for this reason the debt was decreed to be
paid out of the land. Now if the mortgage debt, in ihe present case,
shall be directed to be paid out of the personal fund, it would defeat
the foreign heirs, whose claim to this property under the law of
Georgia, cannot be less strong than a bequest.
In 3 Johns. Ch. Rep. 252, it is laid down, as between the representatives of the real and personal estate, that the land is he primary
fund to pay off a mortgage. And in 2 Bro. 57, lord Kenyon, as
master of the rolls, laid down the same rule: that where an estate
descends, or comes to one subject to a mortgage ; although the
mortgage be afterwards assigned, and the party enter into a covenant to pay the money borrowed; yet that shall not bind his personal
estate.
There is no doctrine better established than that the purchase of
land, subject to a mortgage debt, does not make the debt :personal;
and on the question being raised, .such debt has been uniformly
charged on the land. And this principle is not changed where additional security has been given.
In the case of Evelyn v. Evelyn, 2 P. Wins 659; where A mortgaged the land for 1500 pounds ; and his son B edvenanted with
the assignee of the mortgage to pay the money. He succeeded to

644

4SUPREME COURT.
[M'Learn v. M'Lellan.]

the premises after the death of. his father, and died intestate.- The
question was, whether his personal estate, under the covenant, should
be applied in payment of tile mortgage ; and. it was decided that the
land should be charged, and the covenant was only considered as
additional security.
In the case of Waring v. Ward, 7 Ves. 334, Lord Eldon says:
"the principle upon which the personal estate is fist liable in general
cases is, that the contract primarily is a personal contract ; the personal estate receiving the benefit: and, being primarily a personal
contract, the land is bound only in aid of the personal obligation to
fulfil that personal contract." It has long been settled, -therefore, that
upon a loan of money, the party meaning to mortgage, in aid of the
bond, covenant or simple contract debt, if there is neither bond nor
covenant; his personal estate, if he dies, must pay the debt for the
benefit of the heir. But suppose a second descent cast nnd the
question arises, the personal estate of the son, and his real estate,
descended to the grandson : then the personal estate of ihe:9n
shall not. pay it, as it never was the personal contract of the son.
And this is the well established rule on this subject. If the'contract be personal, although a.mortgage be given, the mortgage is
considered in aid of the personal contract ; and, on the decease of the
mortgagor, his petsonal estate will' be considered the primary tund,
because the contract -was personal : but if the estate descend tq the
grandson of the mortgagor, then the charge would be upon tile land,
as the debt was not the personal debt of the immediate ancestor.
And so, if the contract was in regard to the realty, the debt is a
charge on the land. It is in this way. that a court of chancery, by
looking at the origin of the debt, is enabled to fix the rule between
distributees.
In the case under consideration, the mortgage was given by James
H. M'Learn, but-it was not given to secure a debt created by iim.
The mortgage merely changed the security, but did not affect the
extent of the judgment lien.. And this judgment was obtained,
chiefly, for the purchase money of the estate. In effect, the debt for
which the judgment was obtained against Archibald M'Learn, and
for which the mortgage was. given, constituted an equitable lien on
the land ; and had the mortgage covered only the land, it must have
been considered the primary fund. The debt for which the mortgage was given was not the personal contract of James H. M'Learn,
but the contract of his ancestor in the purchase of the estate.. But

JANUARY TERM 1836.
(M'Learn v. M'Lellan.]

if the contract was personal, and might have been a charge on the
personal estate devised to James H. M'Learn, yet th character of
the debt, in this respect, is changed in the hands of tile present heirs.
In tile language of Lord Eidon, this debt cannot be a charge-on
the personalty, because it was not created by the personal contract
of James H. M'Learn.
This, under the authorities cited, would be the rule for the payment of the mortgage debt, if James H. M'Learn had not executed
a mortgage on the personal as well as the real property, which, as
devisee, he received from his father.
This mortgage on the personal property cannot be considered in
the light of additional surety to the lien which beford existed. If it
could be considered in this light, the land would still be the primary
fund, and the personal mortgage as surety or auxiliary to the land.
But this mortgage can in no. 'espect be considered as additional
surety. It might have been so considered in reference to the equitable lien of the vendor for the purchase money, as.such lien was limited to the land ; but the lien of the judgment obtained against the
ancestor of James H. M'Learn, and for which the mortgage was
substituted, extended, as before remarked, to the personal as well as
real estate of tle defendant.
The debt then for which the mortgage was given did not arise
from the personal contract of James H. M'Learn, but by the contract of
his ancestor; and the mortgage was given in.discharge of the judgment. This created no new lien upon th6 personal property. it.
came to James 11. M'Learn under the will of his father, subject to
the lien of the judgment. The mortgage then did not and was not
intended to create any new charge upon the personalty ; but to continue, in a different form, that which already existed.
In this view the charge on the personal estate can no more be
disregarded than the charge upon the real ; and in this respect this
case differs from the cases referred to. The charge on both funds,
under the mortgage, may be compaiea to a will devising the funds
to the respective heirs now before the court, as the statute provides;
and leaving the debt as a charge upon his real and personal property.
Can any doubt that such a bequest would be considered .by a court
of chancery as a charge ipon both funds? Now, although Jaimes
H. M'Learn has made no will, as in the supposed case, yet he gave
a mortgage to continue the charge on the personal property which
existed under the judgment; and the law of Georgia fixes the rule

SUPREME COURT.
[M'Learn v. M'Lellan.]

of descent. This act of the ancestor, connected with the Georgia
law of descent, gives.as decided and clear a direction to the property,
both real and personal under the mortgage, as if in his last will James
H. M'Learn had so devised it. Both. funds being charged with the
mortgage debt must be applied to its payment, in proportion to their
respective amounts. And as the property, both real and: personal,
has been converted into money, the proportionate part of each can
be applied to this payment without difficulty.
And any debts of the estate not covered by the mortgage must be
paid out of the personal fund.
As the decree of the circuit court was not made in conformity to
this view of the case, that decree must be reversed ; and the cause
remanded to' that court, with instruction to enter a decree in conformity to this opinion.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the circuit court of the United States for the district of Georgia,
and was argued by counsel; on consideration whereof, it is the
:opinion of ihis court, that the mortgage debt should be paid out of
the real and personal property embraced by the mortgage pro rata:
whereupon, it is ordered, adjudged and decreed by this court, that
the decree of the said cdrcuit coart in this cause be, and -the same is
hereby reversed ; and that this cause bei and the same is hereby remanded tO the said circuit cout for further proceedings.

