JANUARY TERM 1836.

BURTIS

RINGO, JAMES ELLIOTT, JOHN COLLINS, JOHN ELLIOTT,

JAMES LAWRENCE,
MUSE, SEN. AND

THOMAS WATSON,

GEORGE MUSE, JUN.,

BINNS AND ELIJAH HIXON, STEPHEN
HIXON,

WILLIAM

TIMOTHY HIxoN

HIXON

AND

ATHEY ROWE,

GEORGE

APPELLANTS V. CHARLES

RIXoN,

TIMOTHY

NOAH HIXON, JOHN

HIxoN,

HEIRS

OF

DECEASED.

An agent, who had been employed to perfect the title to a tract of land for his principal, in the course of his agency, became adquainted with its deficiency; and having
concealed this from the principal, obtained P legal title to the same land for himself. An application was made to the legislature of Kentucky, by the holders of
the imperfect title, to supply its defects; which was done by a law specially enacted
for that purpose. Of this proceeding the agent was informed; and when it was
stated to him that his conduct, to the injury of his principal, might be attended
with unpleasant consequences to himself, he declared in writing, under his hand,
in the presence of two witnesses, that he disavowed an intention to interfere with
the title of his principal, and assigned the title he had acquired to him, that the
same might be carried into grant. At the same time he.was paid 100 dollars for his
expenses, &c. In violation of this transfer, he took out a patent for the same land,
in his name; and a bill was filed in the circuit court of Kentucky to compel him
to convey the legal title, thus acquired, to those who held the equitable title, under
the act of the legislature of that state.
By the Court. The complainant's entry and survey were raised by the legislature
into a right to the exclusion of every right; and any patent afterwards issued is a
nullity. The legal title of the complainants does not rest upon the statute for
granting lands, but upon an act of the legislature directing an unregistered survey,
inoperative by the lapse of time, to be registered; and a patent to be issued upon it.
When this act was passed in favour of the complainants, the land covered by the
survey became excepted from the mass of ungranted vacant land ; and the complainants acquired rights in it which could not be defeated by a patent to any
other person.
If an agent discovers a defect in the title of h'is principal to land, he cannot misuse it
to acquire a title for himself; and if he does, he will be held as a trustee holding
for his principal.
The tenants in possession of land, of which the complainants claimed a conveyance of
the legal title, were made parties to the proceeding by an amended bill; the otiginal-bill having charged that the land had been occupied by them for ten or twelve
years, as the tenants of the holder of the legal title. They were not charged wit h
fraud, nor were they placed in any such relation to the land. No case exists, as to
the tenants, for the interference of a court of equity, whether they occupied the
lands as the tenants of the holder of the legal title, as declared in the original bill,
or as tenants in possession under another: the complainants are to be supposed to
have their remedy at law for the recovery of the land, until they shall charge and
show that the tenants obtained, and retain possession, in contravention of some
eqrity subsisting between them and the complainants.

SUPREME COURT.
[Ringo et al. v. Binns et al.]

ON appeal from the circuit court of the United States for the district
of Kentucky.
The facts, as stated in the opinion of the court, were the following:
The object of this appeal is to reverse the decree of the zircuit
court, by which the appellants were ordered to convey to the appellees, by deeds of release, with covenants of warranty against themselves and their heirs, arid those claiming under them, all the right,
title, intere'st and claim which they respectively have to lands embraced by a patent of two thousand acres to Charles Binns, Jun. and
!he heirs, of Timothy Iixon, and their heirs, dated the 16th of October 1824.
It appears by.the proofs in the-cause, that a survey of two thousand acres Was made on Indian creek, alias Fox's run, or Mason
run, Henry county, Kentucky, on the 20th of November 1797, for
John A-lexander Binns and Charles Binns, by virtue of an entry made
the Sth-of August 1783. The original survey, by accident, or from
the negligence of an agent of the Binns's, to whom it had been sent'
for such purpose, had never been registered arid was lost, but a copy
of it was preserved which determined with. exactness the lQcality of
tie land. It was known as Binns's land in the neighbourhood, and
bythose owning the contiguous lands. John Alexander Binns transferred -his interest in the survey to Husly Bagges, by whom it was
sold to Timothy Hixon, the ancestor of Hixon the appellee. Charles
Binns, iti August 1819, appointed John Littlejohn his agent and
atforney, with a -power of substitution, to attend to this land and his
other land in .Kentucky, and Littlejohn associated with himself in
such.ag'ency Burtis Ringo. Ringo, during the agency, and particularly whilst acting in concert with Littlejohn and William P. Rogers,
to procure a division of the land between the appellees, called upon
Rogers to, ascertain vhen a. division of the land could be decreed.
Rogers told him there was a difficulty in the way, as the survey had
not been returned to the register's office, and that no patent had ever
been issued for the land. He received the information in May or
June 1822.. On the 10th of July following he wrote to Littlejohn,
and after acknowledging that he had been. requested to assist in
dividing "Binns's land," lie states that he had been at Frankfort;
had made search for Binns's patent; but found the return of the'survey had not been made, and that no grant had been issued.
He further says he supposed it would be unnecessary to be at any
further trouble about it until Mr Binns had been heard from ; as he
had written to him, if lie had a patent to send it on as soon a. pos-

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Ringo et al. v. Binns et all

sible to Littlejohn or himself: and he requests Littlejohn to send it
to him if Littlejohn should receive it. On the same day he wrote a
letter to Binns, in which lie says,. having been requested by Littlejohn to assist. him in dividing your lands between you and J'lr Hixon's
heirs, he had been in the register's office, and finding that the release
of the survey had not been made, and that a grant had not been
issued, he advises Binns to be at no further expense about it, as it
appears no grant can have issued; ard that Binns would be wrong if
he thought there was no better right on the land. On the 8th of
July, two days before he had written to Littlejohn and Binns, Ringo
had taken from the register's office warrants for five hundred acres
and one hundred acres of land,. and caused entries and surveys to be
made upon six hundred acres of the original two thousand acre survey, which had been made for John Alexander Binns and Charles
•,Binns. The surveys were made on the 20th of July, and returned
to the register's office in his own name on the 24th of August..
When charged by Littlejohn with the fraudulent attempt upon the
rights of those principals, and told that application had been made to
the legislature of Kentucky to authorize a patent to be issued upon
the original survey, on behalf of the Binns's, and that his conduct
was known to a committee of the legislature, and might be attended
.with unpleasant consequences to himself; Ringo, to avoid them and
to prevent a most notorious disclosure of his fraud, expressed in
writing his willingness that such an act should be passed by the
legislature, as the complainant had applied for, and gave to Littlejohn,
under his hand and seal, a paper, of which the following is a copy:
"Whereas, it has been represented that I, Burtis Ringo, of Fleming county, state of Kentucky, had made two entries and surveys
of six hundred acres of land, said to belo..g to John Alexander Binns
and Charles, of Virginia, and that the said John A. Binns had sold
to Timothy Hixon, now deceased, and that I had extended the surveys for my own benefit, though an agent under John Littlejohn for
said Binns; I hereby disavow such intention, and do by these presents assign over all my right, title and interest in the said extends
and surveys to Charles Binns and the said heirs of Timothy.Hixon,
to be carried into a grant at their proper expense; hereby renouncing
all claim by virtue of said-extends and surveys, and assigning them
to the F I Binns and Hixon's heirs. As witness my hand and seal
this 4th day of November, 1822.
"BURTIs

RiNGO, [L. S.].

SUPREME COURT.
[Ringo et al. v. Binns et al.]

"Signed and acknowledged in the presence of us, Daniel Fechlen,
John Littlejohn."
Before this instrument was executed by Ringo, Littlejohn agreed
to give him one hundred dollars, to'reimburse the amount he had
expended in procuring the warrants and making the surveys of the six
hundred acres; paid him fifty dollars in Commonwealth paper, and
gave him a note of hand for fifty dollars.
The legislature of Kentucky acted upon the petition of the complainants; passed an act on the 10tiof December 1922, recognizing
the survey of the 20th. of November 1797, made on the entries of the
5th of August 1783 ; and the same was carried infoa grant in favour
of Charles Binns, Jun. and the heirs of Timothy Hixon and their
heirs, on the 16th of October 1824. In the mean time Ringo, in
violation of his transfer of the entries and survey for six hundred
acres to Binns and the heirs of Hixon, took out a paent in his own
name. Tha aforegoing facts wei:e charged in the bill of the complainants; were denied by Ringo in his answers; but were established
by proof at the hearing. In the original bill Ringo was the only
defendant; but the complainants charge in it thatthe land had been
occupied for ten or twelve years by tenants of'Binns. By an amended bill, the tenants, James Elliott, John Collins, John Elliott, James
Lawrence, Thomas Watson, Athey Rowe, George Muse, Sen. and
George Muse, Jun., were made parties, and stated'to be tenants in
possession of the land claimed by the defendant; and the complainants make the.same prayer against the tenants, as they had against
Ringo in the original bill..
The circuit court made the following decree:
The court being now sufficiently advised of and concerning the
premises, doth order and decree, that the defendants, Burtis Ringo,
James Elliott, John Collins, John Elliott, James Lawrence, Thomas
Watson, Athey Rowe, George Muse, Sen. and George Muse, Jun.
do, on or before the sixth day of the ne.;A term, convey to the complainants, by deeds of release, with covenants of warranty against
themselves and their heirs, and those claiming under them, all the
right, title, interest and. claim, which they respectively have to the
lands embraced by the two thousand acre patent to Charles Binns
Jun., dated 16th of October 1824; and the writ of haberi facias pdssessionem is awarded the complainants against the said defendants.
And it is further ordered and decreed, that the defendants pay to the
complainants their costs herein expended.
The defendants appealed to this co''t.'

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Ringo et a]. v. Binns et a].

The case was argued by Mr French and Mr Underwood, for the
appellants; and by Mr Semmes and Mr Coxe, for the appellees.
The counsel for the appellants presented the following points for
the consideration of the court.
The counsel for the appellees contend the decree is erroneous,
and must be reversed for the following reasons, to wit :
1. The decree has passed against John Collins, who is no party
to the record.
2. The court has no power to decree tenants in possession merely
to convey. They must either hold the legal title, or an equity to
the land, growing out of the asserted title of the appellees. The appellees have shown neither.
3. The circumstances under which Ringo executed his relinquishment, were such that the contract cannot be specifically executed
upon him by the chancellor.
1st. Because there was no consideration paid, or agreed to be paid
Ringo for his claim. The 100 dollars was to indemnify him for expenses, in procuring his own claim ; and not as a consideration for the
purchasing it: and for the want of a valuable consideration the chancellor will not decree a specific execution of a contract.
2d. If the 100 dollars shall be considered as payment for his claim,
it is wholly inadequate; and the inadequacy of price is an insuperable
barrier to a specific execution.
3d. The deed was unfairly and fraudulently obtained byLittlejohn;
and for that fraud ie chancellor will reft.se specific ex :cu:tiou of the
contract.
5. There is no proof that Elijah Hixon and others, claiming to be
the heirs of Tijnothy Hixon deceased, are his children. Such proof
is indispensable ; and, for want of it, it does not appear they have any
interest whatever in the land. They sue as heirs, and not as devisees; and the allegala et probata must correspond.
Messrs French and Underwood contended, that the equity relied
on by [he appellees is twofold.
1. They relied upon an entry for two thousand acres of land, carried into grant, in pursuance of a special act of the general assembly of Kentucky.
2. They relied upon a contract, by which they contend Ringo
bound himself to transfer a.nd assign to them his plats and certifiVOL. X.2

I(-0

SUPREME COURT.
(Ringo et al. v. Binns et al.]

cates of survey; and thereafter fraudulently refused to comply, and
obtained patents for the land in his own name.
If both these grounds of equity are untenable, the decree must be
reversed and the bill dismissed.
To constitute a valid entry, it must call for objects notorious at its
date; and it must be so special in its particular location, that others
might appropriate the adjacent vacant and unappropriated lands with
safety. This proposition is established by an unbroken chain of adjudications in Virginia and Ktiutucky; extending from the passage of
the Virginia act of 1779, usually called the land law, down to the
present time.
Now there is no proof in this cause showing. the notoriety and specialty of the entry of the appellees. They cannot therefore succeed
on that ground of equity.
The appellees cannot derive any equity from the patent, upon the
entry for two thousand acres ; because, before the emanation of the
patent, the land had been appropriated by Ringo. He had vested
rights, which could not be divested by a special act of the legislature
of Kentucky. The entry had become void, by the failure to have it
surveyed and carried into grant, as prescribed by law ; and the land
covered by it (if indeed it covered the land now in controversy, which
is not proven nor conceded) was subject to appropriation by Kentucky land office treasury warrants. Ringo did appropriate it by
such warrants. Thereafter the legislature of Kentucky could not
constitutionally revive the equity, if any ever existed, under the
entry for two thousand acres; so as to interfere with the rights of
Ringo previously vested. Such a revival of a dead equity, would
violate the rights which Ringo derived under his contract with the
government. So far, therefore, as the decree rests for support upon
the adverse title set up in the bill, it cannot be sustained.
Upon the 'second ground of equity relied on, the decree cannot
stand. Under this head, the case presents itself as one for a specific
execution of a contract. Applications of this kind are presented to
the sound didbretion of the chancellor. In this case he ought to
leave the parties to their legal remedies; because, by depriving
Ringo of his title, he will lose property of the value of 2000 dollars
and more, without receiving therefor one cent. It is true that Ringo
received 50 dollars in notes on the Bank of the Commonwealth, and
the note of Littlejohn for 50 dollars more. But these sums were
agreed to be paid as a remuneration for Ringo's trouble and expense
in locating, surveying and purchasing his land warrants, under the

JANUARY TERM 1836.
(Ringo et al.v. Binns et al.]

idea that he acted in the business as agent for the appellees; and not
as an equivalent or as a consideration for the land, regarding it as a
sale and purchase. The whole transaction, as manifested by the record, exhibits nothing like the ordinary bargain and sale of land.
But if that were the case, the court should not interfere and compel
a specific execution, because of the inadequacy of the price.
Ringo was induced to execute the instrument, promising to assign
his plats and certificates of survey, on account of the alarm excited
in his mind by the representations of Littlejohn, that the legislature
of Kentucky would institute proceedings to remove Ringo from office.
An obligation thus obtained, should never be specifically enforced by
the chancellor.
It was not fraudulent in Ringo to appropriate the land, upon ascertaining that the appellees had no title. If he obtained that knowledge while lie was acting as agent for the appellees, there is no
principle of equity which can preclude him from making a profit
by the knowledge he had acquired; or which can convert Ringo
into a trustee, holding the legal title for the use of the appellees. It
might have been a friendly or benevolent act on the part of Ringo,
on ascertaining that the appellees had no title, and that the land
was vacant; to communicate the fact to the appellees, and advise
them to purchase land warrants and locate them on the land. But
his failure to do so, and his proceeding to appropriate the land for
himself, cannot amount to a fraud on the appellees. If it does, he
is guilty of it merely because he did not voluntarily communicate his
knowledge of facts, and give the advantage of the speculation to the
appellees; when he was not employed by them as agent for any such
purpose, and when lie was under no legal obligation to give them
the benefit of his discoveries. As well might it be contended, that
the common carrier, who is taking wheat to market, is legally bound
to make known to the owner all the facts which he may have learned, and which have produced a sudden advance of fifty per cent on
the price of !he article; as to contend that Ringo, merely because he
had a special agency in dividing the land, was bound, in consequence, to inform the appellees what discoveries he had made as to
the title. If the carrier purchases the wheat, permitting the owner
to remain ignorant of the facts which have operated to enhance the
price, no court can or would deprive him of the profits of the speculation. Ringo's case deserves more favour, because the appellees
had no interest whatever in the land which Ringo appropriated to
himself. They supposed they had an interest and title to it; but

276

SUPREME COURT.
[Ringo et al v. Binns et a].)

this was a mistake. The land was vacant, and, like all vacant land,
liable to be appropriated by those who might discover its situation;
and in this respect, the appellees did not occupy a more favourable
position than Ringo.
There are two grounds upon which the. deciree must be reversed,
unconnected with the foregoing considerations.
1. There is no proof that the appellees are the children of Timothy
Hixon deceased. They sue as his heirs. They' must prove th6
facts upon which the court, as matter of law, can pronounce them
heirs. There is no such proof. A witness cannot prove, in totidern
verbis, that A is the heir of B : he must prove the degree of consanguinity; he must state the facts, and leave the deduction to the'court.
The will which shows that the appellees are devisees of Tinothy
Hixon, cannot sustain the bill which alleges they Were heirs. The
allega(a and probata must correspond.
2. The record shows that the defendants, except Ringo, were the
tenants of the appellees, entering upon the land under them in virtue
of leases. The appellees cannot maintain a bill against their own
tenants, to compel them to surrender their title and possession. The
tenants are estopped to deny the title under which they entered, and
if they held over, the remedy of the appellees was complete at law.
Mr Semmes, for the appellees.
The allegations of the bill are, without except'bn, sustained by the
evidence filed in the cause. The answer of Ringo is rudis et indigesta moles of false assertions, personal vituperation, and untenable
positions. Exceptions should have been filed in the court below ;
the answer -referred 'to a master, and the offensive matter stricken
out. The evidehc, falsifies every'allegation in the answer. It is
even imph'red in credit, by the depositions taken to support it; they
w
are merely negative, the witnesses "kno ing nothing" of the material facts;
The counsel for the appellants contended, that as Ringo had procured the elder grant, under which the legal title passed; his claim
was superior in law and equity to that of the appellees. The reply
to this argument is to be found in all the decisions of the states of
Virginia and Kentucky on the subject, and of this court in 5 Cranch.
The cnse of M'Clung v. Hughes, 5 Rand. 453, was a case in point.
It was Ihere held, and declared to be the settled law drawn friom all
the decisions, that a party having claim to lands entered and surveyed by another, should have recourse to the statutory remedy of

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Ringo et a]. v. Binns et al.]

caveat to prevent the emanation of a patent; 'that he is not to be
sustained in a,court of equity on such grounds as might have been
used on the trial of the-caveat; but that upon a case suggesting or
proving that he was prevented by fraud or accident from prosecuting
his caveat, equity will take jurisdiction of the case and grant relief.
The effect of an entry is to give aparty an equitable interest in the
land located, to be clothed with the legal title only.on the issuing of a'
grant or patent. Two parties entering the same land have each an
equity; and if a.subsequent locator should obtain a patent first, another maxim of equity will apply, that where the equity is equal, the
law shall prevail, and his title to the lands is perfected ; all equities
-being equal without regard to priority of time. The inequality pIzoceeds
fiom fraud or culpable laches ; and to deprive a subsequent locator,
with the legal title,. of the benefit of this rule, it inuit appear that he
was guilty of some act or laches, making it unconscientious in him
to insist on his title.
Now what is such fraud?1 A has a prior entry and a subsequent
patent.. B has a subsequent entry but a prior patent. A's entry
is
a record; of this B must take notice; if not, his ignorance will not
excuse
him ; if with this knowledge he locates the
land entered by
A, it is a fraud; and though he obtains a legal title by patent, his
fraud will postpone him, and the prior equity will prevail. 5 Rand.
475, 476, 488, 489, 504.
These principles were recognized by this court in Bodley v.. Taylor, 5 Cranch 191 ;- and in Taylor v. Brown, 5 Crancl 234, it was
decided that a .subsequent entry, even without fraud, must be postponed to a prior-andalthough tile subsequent locator produced a
prior patent.
Does the present case come within the rule here laid down ? It
does, with the additional circumstance, that the subsequent locator
here stood in a fiduciary relation to the prior, and made use of his
situation to procuri a knowledge. of his principal's defect of legal
title. If Ringo had a- better title, his not proceeding to caveat the
grant of the appellees, is evidence of his fraud under the circumstan.
ces of the case.
The appellants contend that the decree must be reversed
1. Because it has passed against John Oollins, who is no party
to the record.- This is not true, lbt, the subpoma-was served on him,
as appears by.the narshal's return and. if true, Would not vitiate
the decree as-to the other appellanrs.
2. 'ThIt the tbnauts on Ahe land (who were mad- defendants by

SUPREME COURT.
[Ringo et al. v. Binns et al.]

an amended bill) are mere tenants in possession; and the decree is
for them to. convey the legal title, i. e., that a decree for the legal
title will not pass the possessory right! That a court of chancery
has no'jurisdiction over tenants in possession, but that the remedy
is at law. The answer to this position is, that the bill does not
name them, and aver that they are tenants in possession. They
are made defendants, to do complete justice between all the parties
in interest. But their own answer to the amended bill concludes
them on this head. They allege that they do not claim either
under the appellees, or the appellant Ringo; but that the legal title
is in them, and attempt to prove it. They fail ; the cause quoad
their legal title was before the court; and abetter title being proved
in the appellees, warranted the court in a decree to convey.
S. That the relinquishment of Ringo was fraudulently procured.
There is no proof of this ; and throwing it out of the case, on the
principles before established, we hold the better title.
4. The -answer denies that the complainants, Hixons, are the
heirs of Timothy Hixon, and that there being only one witness in
contradiction on this point, the answer is conclusive of the fact.
The reply i , that to'give an answer in chancery the force of evience, per se, so as only to be rebutted by two witnesses or one witness, and corroborating circumstances; the answer, pro re nata, must
be responsive to the bill, or in answer to some interrogatory in the
bill. Affirmative allegations in an answer are in this respect on no
better footing than those in a bill. On this point it is not responsive. If it were, the title of the Hixons and their identity are clearly
made out by the evidence. And moreover, if it were responsive,
and not positively contradicted by two witnesses ; the fact, if important, could not avail, inasmuch as the answer being deprived of
credibility in other respects, is so in this; for falsum in uno falsum in
omnibus.
5. It is contended on behalf of the tenants in possession, that
having occupied the lands more than twenty years, the act of limitations bars our title. But, 1. The act of limitations chn only be
taken advantage of by pleading it; that has not been done.
2. They must be looked on in the light of trustees for us, the entry
in the surveyor's book being notice of our claim. 5 Rand. 475. The
implied trust obviates the bar of the statute. 3. The fraud, the
malafides, inferred from this notice, will prevent the act from attaching. But, 4. They contend that the appllees have no title,
'ba that the title is in them by virtue of this possession. If the ap-

JANUARY TERM 1886.
(Ringo et al. v. Binns et al.]

pellees have no title, the lands are vacant, and they are pleading
the statute against the state. Wild lands can only be appropriated
by the regular mode of warrant, entry, survey and grant. Possession gives no title as against the state.
These tenants claim by purchase from Christy. They do not
show the derivations of his title; set out no deed from Christy to
them, nor state the purchase money or consideration of the conveyance. - The evidence proves, that at one time they professed to hold
under the appellees; at another, under the appellant Ringo ; and
now, only claim the legal title. •Their claim to compensation for
improvements on another's land, cannot, on the general principles of
law, be allowed.
As to the form of the decree, it is precisely as in the case cited
from 5 Cranch.
Mr Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the Court.
After stating the case, he proceeded.:
It is contended that the decree is erroneous and should be reversed.
In behalf of Ringo it is urged that he has a prior legal title, unaccompanied by any equity of the complainants.. The legal title
must rest upon entry, survey, registry and paterqt; and it will be
admitted that a legal title cannot be in any one until a patent has
been issued ; and further, that all of those requirements to make a
complete title, shall have been done without fraud, to give to a:
patentee a valid title. If, then, in the courts of carrying his surveys
into grant, and before a patent upon them was issued to him, Ringo,
under a notice to caveat the application of the complainants to the
general assembly of Kentucky, for leave to bring in a bill to authorize
a copy of these original surveys for two thousand acres to be received
and registered, that a patent might be issued to them; acknowiedged
their equity to be superior to his immature legal rights, and expressed
his willingness that it should be affirmed by legislative enactment;
it being'done by the legislature; its act nullified his surveys, and the
litter could not be afterwards any foundation for a patent.of. the same
land to himself. The complainants' entry and survey were raised
by the legislature ifito a right to the exclusion of every right of Ringo; and any patent afterwards issued to him, upon his entries:and
surveys, is a nullity., The legal title of the complainants does .not
rest upon the statute for granting lands, but upon an act of the legislature directing an unregistered survey, inoperative by the lapse of'

SUPREME COURT.
[Ringo et a]. v. Binns et aL.]

time, to be registered, and a patent to be issued upon it. When this
act was passed in favour of the complainants, the land cove'red.by
the survey, under the entry of the 5th of August 1783, becamle ex
cepted from the mass of ungranted vacant land ; aid the complainants acquired rights in it which could not be defeated by a patent
upon Ringo's entry and survey.
This view of the case makes it Unnecessary for us to consider the
objections to the decree growing out of Ringo's transfer of his entries
and surveys to the. complainants ; namely, that there was no consideration paid, as agreed to be paid, for his claim ; if there was, that
it was inadequate, and that it was obtained by fraud. In truth, at
the time that paper was executed, lie had no legal or equitable interest in the land to convey and, be transferred, no more than he was
conscientiously bound to do; as he confessed and had so declared to
otlhers when he was making his surveys; that they were not made
with an intention to appropriate then to himself, but to enable him
to make a division of the land between the complainants.
But how forcibly does the equity of the Complainants prevail over
any claim of Ringo, wien the latter is viewed as their agent at the
time he made his entry and surveys upon the land, which lie had
undertaken to assist in dividing between themn. It is said, that an
unregistered survey gave to them no equitable right in the land ;and
that Ringo being only an agent for the special purpose of dividing
the land, iecould rightfully enter and survey it for himself when he
ascertained the defect. ii' the tit.lp of the complainants. The proposition of a want of equitable right in the complainants, is true
as against the state : for the time within which the survey should
have been returned and registered before a grant could issue had
expired ; and the land had fallen into the general mass of ungranted
land liable to entry, survey and grant upon treasury land office warrants. But, the nmistake in the argument is, in -pplying the rights
of the state in the land, to' a right 'inRingo, obtained when
lie was admitting to the complainants his agency, for them ; and
making acknowledgements of their title to others, to enable him
more successfully to secure by his artifices a title in the land to himself. On the same day Ringo wrote two letters, one to Littlejohn
and tIe other to Charles Binns. In both he acknowledges himself
to be tie agent of the complainants :but, by the tenor of his letters to
tlins, lie conceals from arid misrepresents to Littlejohn,and under
the pretence of a friendly wish to save 3Binns from unnecessary ex-

JANUARY TERM 1836.

281

[Ringo et al. v. Binns et al.]

pense, he tells him that as no survey bad been. made and no grant
had existed, that he need not go to any expense about it, as it appears no grant can now issue; that he will be wrong to think there
was no better right to the land. These letters were written two
days after he had commenced measures to secure the land for himself. The equity of the complainants, therefore, over any right of
Ringo, does not arise from the former having had, at this time, any
legal title to the land; but from Ringo's having practised an artifice
upon the complainants, whilst he was their agent,,to prevent theni
from curing the defect in their title, thai he might deprive them of
property which at the same time he acknowledged to be theirs. He
was guilty of deceitful practices and artful devices, contrary to the
plain rules of common honesty and fair dealing between men; and
could not acquire a title to the land, valid against the equity which
he had acknowledged to be in the complainants. It is unnecessary to
pursue this point further. The decree of the court directing Ringo
to convey, must be affirmed: and the proposition Iaid down by this
court is, that if an agent discovers a defect in the title of his principal
to land, he cannot misuse it to acquire a title for himself; and if he
does, that he will be held as a trustee holding for his principal.
In regard to the tenants, the decree of the court must be reversed.
They were made parties by an amended bill. In the original bill
the complainants charge that the land had been occupied for ten or
twelve years by tenants of Binns, and in the amended bill they are
said to be tenants in possession of the land claimed by the defendant.
Nor are they charged with fraud in either. It is not necessary,
therefore, to consider the grounds urged in the argument of counsel
for a reversal of the de'cree against the tenants, if a point arises upon
the pleadings decisive of their case. Not having been charged with
fraud on the bill, or placed by it in any such relation to the land or
to the complainants, no case exists for the interference of a court of
equity. Whether they occupied the lands as the tenants of Binns,
or as declared in the original bill, or as tenants in possession under
another ; the complainants are to be supposed to have their remedy
at law for the recovery of the land until they shall charge and show
that the tenants obtained, and retain possession, in contravention of.
some equity subsisting between them and the complainants. The
tenants are not so charged, nor is there any thing in the record from
which such a conclusion can be drawn. They are-merely shown to
be in possession of parts of the Original survcy of two thousand acres,
VOL. x.-2 T,

SUPREME COURT.
[Ringo et al. v. Binns et al.]

which was resurveyed by Ringo; and it is probable they hold under
him ; but there is no proof that they were parties to the fraud which
.he practised upon the complainants. This point does not appear to
have been made in the hearing in the court below, nor was it urged
in-argument in this court; but it is obvious in the pleadings, and
must be noticed by us: it is sufficient for the reversal of so much of
the decree as relates to the tenants; and it will be directed with permission to the complainants to amend their bill,
if they shall please
to do so.
It was also urged that the decree should be reversed, on the
grounds that there was no proof showing the complainants, the Hixons, to be the heirs of Timothy Hixon, and that the will of Timothy
Hixon showed that the complainants should have claimed as devisees,
and not as heirs.
The decree being reversed as to the tenants; neither pointis material to them ;and these objections cannot prev:ail against the affirmation of the decree as to Ringo, because the allegation in the bill of
the complainants that the Hixons were the heirs of Timothy Nixon,
is not denied in the defendant's answers, and was therefore not a
point put in issue by the pleadings. Besides, the fact not having
been denied by the answer, there are ample and frequent proofs in the
record of Ringo's admission that they were the heirs of Timothy
Hixn, and of his acknowledgements of their equitable right in the
land in that character.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the circuit court of the United States for the district of Ken.
tucky, and was argued by counsel; on- consideration whereof, it is.
ordered, adjudged and decreed by this court, that so much of the
dec.ree of the said circuit court in this cause as directs the defendant
Ringo to convey to the complainants be, and the same is hereby
affirmed with costs, and that so much of the said decree as directs
the tenants to convey to the complainants be, and the same is hereby
reversed: and it is further ordered and decreed by this court,, that
this cause be, and the same is hereby. remanded to-the said cifcuit
ceurt,,With directions for further proceedings to be had therein, in
conformity to the opinion and decree of this court, and as to law and
justice may appertain.

