412

SUPREME COURT.

THOMAS ELLICOTT AND JONATHAN MEREDITH, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR
V. WILLIAM PEARL.
At the trial of a writ of right, in the circuit court of Kentucky, a witness was offered
to prove that one Moore, who was dead, and whose name was put down as one of
the chain carriers in making the original survey, and who was subsequently present when lines were run on the same land, had declared, that a certain corner
was the corner made by the surveyor, Kincaid, when the original survey was
made and the line run by the direction of the surveyor, for the original survey.
The circuit court rejected the evidence. Held, that the circuit court did not err
in rejecting this evidence.
The evidence was not merely hearsay; but hearsay not to matters of general reputation, or common interest among many.
The general rule is, that evidence, to be admissible, should be given unde" the sanction of an oath, legally administered: and in a judicial proceeding, depending between the parties affected by it, or those whostand in privity of estate or interest
with them. Hearsay is admitted in cases of pedigree, of prescriptive rights and
customs, and some other cases of a public, or quasi public nature. In cases of pedigree, it is admitted upon the ground of necesity, or the great difficulty, and sometimes the impossibility,'of proving remote facts of this sort by living witnesses
But in these cases-it is only admitted when the tradition comes from persons intimately connected, or in close relation with the family, or.fr-m sources of a kindred
nature; Nhich, in a general sense, may be said to import verity: there being' no lis
nota or other interest to affect the credit of their statement.
In cases of prescriptive rights and customs,' and other claims of a public nature, tradition and reputation have been in like manner admitted. They are all cases of a
general right, affecting a number of persons, having d common'interest.
The distinction seems now clearly established in England, that hearsay, or reputation, or tradition, is not admissible in cases of mere private rights; but only in
cases of public rights, or those quasi publici, involving similar interests of a number of persons. Perhaps a reason may be 'found which, upon principle, would
well support this distinction. 'It is that, in regard to private rights, the acts, profession and assertion of title by the parties claiming for themselves are, in all cases,
susceptible of direct proof: but in cases of public rights, the acts, profession and
assertion of title by many persons, not in privity with each other, cannot be explained or qualified to be in furtherance of a common public right; unless the evidence of general reputation were admissible to explain the intention and objects
of the parties in those acts, or that possession or assertion of title ; that-is to say,
whether done in furtherance of a common right or of a private right.
Kincaid had been examined as a witness for the demandants (by-way of deposition),
and the tenants, thereupon, gave in evidence the conversations and declarations of
Kincaid, to certain witnesses, in order to discredit his (Kincaid's), testimony, and
to show that he had stated that the survey was made by him, at the mouth of Raccoon creek, for Remey; when it was his interest to place itat Pond creek. The
demandnuts then, with a view to sustain Kincaid, and to support the statements

JANUARY TERM 1836.

413

[Ellicott v. Pearl.]
going to his interest, offered witnesses to prove the statements and conversations
of Kincaid at other times, corresponding_% ith the statement4 in his deposition, rela.
tive to his making the surveys of Thompson and Remey; and it being suggested
by the demamants, upon an inquiry from the court, that these statements and
conversations were subsequent to that testified to by the tenant's witnesses ;.the
court, upon an objection taken by the tenants, excluded the evidence. By the
Court. The evidence was properly excluded. Where witness proof has been
offered against the testimony of a witness under oath, in order to impeach his
veracity; establishing that he has given a different account at another time: we are
of opinion that, in general, evidence is not admissible in order to confirm his testimony, to prove that at other times he has given the same account -as he has under
oath: for it is but his mere declaration of the fact; and that is not evidence. His
testimony under oath is better evidence than his confirmatory declarations not
under oath; and the-repetition of his assertions does not carry his credibility further,
if'so far as his oath. This is said in general, because there are exceptions: but
they are of a peculiar nature, not applicable to the circumstances uf this case : as
where the testimony is assailed as a fabrication Of a recent date, or a complaint
recently made; for there, in order to repel such imputation, proof of the antecedent
declaration of the party may be admitted.
The tenants, in order to prove the boundaries of the demandant4' land, as laid down
in the plat, and claimed by them, gave in evidence the original plat@ and certificates of survey of their two thousand and one thousand acre tracts; and then
examined M'Neal, a witness for the demandants, who was first introduced to prove
their boundary ; who stated that the water courses, as found on the ground, did not
correspond with those reresented on the said plats: and after being examined.by
the demandants, for the purpose of.proving that the marks on the trees, claimed
by them as the corner and lines of their surveys, were as ancient as the said surveys, and also as to the position and otherwise of the lines and corners claimed .by
them, and represented on the'plat made and used at the trial; stated on the crossexamination of the tenants' counsel, that some of the lined, narked to suit the
calls of the said surveys, appeared to be younger; and others, from.their appearance, might be as. old as the date of the said plats. The demandants, to counteract
this evidence, and to sustain'their claim, offered in evidence a survey, made out
by M'Neal in an action of ejectment formerly depending betwecn the same parties
for the sameland, of which survey Pearl had due notice. The tenants objected
to the reading of the explanatory report accompanying this survey, and the court
refused to allow so much thereof as stated the appearance as to age jid otherwise
of the lines and corners to go in evidence to the jury; and accordingly caused to
be erased from the plat the words following, viz. "ancient" (cl6ps);-f' John
Forbes, Jun. states he cut the same letters and figures;"-"on the east side, no
chops appear to have been marked with a larger axe, than the chops on the beginning tree ;"-aiid then permitted the residue of the report and plat to go in evidence. Held, that the evidence was properly refused.
The assumption that there can be no possession to defeat an adverse title, except in
one or other of these ways, that is, by an actual residence, or an actual enclosure ;
is a doctrine wholly irreconcileable with principle and authority. Nothing can be
more clear, than that a fence is not indispensable to constitute Oossession of a tract
of land. The erectioni of a fence is nothing more than an act presumptive of an
intention to assert an ownership and possession over the property. But there are
many other acts, which are equally evincive of such an intention of asserting such

SJPREME COURT.
[Ellicott v. Pearl.]
ownership and possession; such as entering upon land.and making improvements
thereon; raising a crop of corn; felling and selling the trecs thereon, under colour
of title.
An entry into possession of a tract of land, under a dcd containing specific metes
and bounds, gives a constructive possession of the whole tract, it not in any adverse
possession: although there may be no fbee or enclosure round the ambit of the
tract, and an actual residence only on a part of it. To. constitute-actual possession,
it is not necessary that there should be any fence or enclosure of the land.
Where.there has been an entry on land under coldur of title by deed, the possession
is deemed to extend to the bounds of that deed; although the actual settlement and
improvements were on a small parcel only of the tract. In such a case, where there
is no adverse possession, the law construes the entry to be co-extensive with tile
grant to the party; upon the ground that it is his clear -intention to assert such
possession.
The demandants, in a writ of right, claimed adversely to all the tenants, upon a title
independent and distinct from theirs. The tenants all claimed under an adverse
title by deed of seven thousand acres; that is, under a title common to them all.
The demandants could not recover any tract in controversy, unless they were
seised thereof within thirty years, the period prescribed by the statute of limitations for writs of right.. If, therefore, there had been thirty years adverse possession of the particular tract in controversy, by any of the tenants ; the demandants
failed in their suit, and were debarred from any recovery.
The court instructed the jury, that if they should find that the patent for the land,
under which the title of the tenants was derived, did not cover all the land ; yet, if'
they find from the evidence, that the tenan*ts, or any of them, or those claiming
under them, have had possession of the land in contest for thirty years next before
the commencement of the demandants' suit, they must find for the tenants.

IN error to the circuit court of the United States, for the district of
Kentucky.
The plaintiffs in error, citizens of the state of Maryland, on the
17th day of January.1831, sued out of the circuit court of the United
States for the district of Kentucky, a writ of right against William
Pearl, for a tenement containing one thousand acres of land, in the
county of Laurel, in the state of Kentucky. The defendant appeared and took defence, and put himself on the assize; praying recognition to be made, whether he had greater right to hold the said tenement, with the appurtenances, as he' held it; or whether the demandants, Ellicott and Meredith, to have it, as they demanded it.'
The demandants afterwards did likewise.
At May term 1834, the case was tried by a jury, who returned
into court the following verdict: "We, the jury, find that the tenant has more right to have the tenement, as he now holds it, than
the demandants to have it:" and the circuit court gave judgment for
the tenant accordingly. .

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Eliicott v. Pearl.]

At the same term of May 1831, other writs of right were sued out
by the plaintiffs against other tenants of the land ; and the like proceedings and judgment took place.
On the trial of the case, the following bill of exceptions was filed.
The parties having agreed that these causes should be heard at
the same time, without prejudice-to the right of either party, and
that the evidence should be heard as to all, and to be applied to each
respectively, the jury was so sworn; and.the plaintiff, to support his
part of the issue, introduced, the patents to James Kincaid for two
thousand acres, and for one thousand acres, and deed ftom James
Kincaid to Samuel and Robert Smith, and the deea from Robert
Smith to Samuel Smith, and the deed from Samuel Smith to the
demandants, in the words and figures following. [The patents and
deeds were inserted.]
The boundaries of the two thousand acres, surveyed and granted
to James Kincaid, were "in Lincoln county, on the east fork of
Rockcastle, beginning at Kincaid's lick, on a branch of said fork,
and on the north side, thence south and east for quantity, and bounded asfolloweth, to-wit: beginning at said Kincaid's lick, on.a branch
on the -north side of the east fork of Rockcastle two beeches, thence
south five hundred and sixty-six poles, crossing said fork to two
white oaks, thence east five hundred and sixty-five and a half poles,
crossing several branches to a white and black oak, thence north five
hundred and sixty-six poles, crossing said east fork to two black oaks,
thence west five hundred and sixty-five and a half poles, to the beginning.'"
The boundaries of the one Thousand acre survey *ere, "in Lincoln
county, on the waters of Rockcastle, to begin at Grigsby's southeast corner of his entry of two thousand acres of land, thence west
with. Grigsby's line to his corner, theuce south for quantity, and
bounded as followeth, to wit.: beginning on said Nathaniel Grigsby's
south-east oorner at a white oak and black oak, thence west five hundred and sixty-five and a half poles,.crossing several branches with
said Grigsby's line to his corner at two white oaks, thence south two
hundred and eighty-three poles, to two black oaks, thence east five
hundred and sixty-five and a half pples, crossing some branches to
twp chestnut oaks, thence north two hundred and eighty-three poles,
to the beginning, with its appurtenahces."
The parties a!so agrepd that the trial of each and afl the cases
should be had on the merits, as though .there Were no blanks in the

SUPREME COURT..
[Ellicottyv. Pearl.] "

pleas, and. that neither party. should take advantage of any defect in
the pleadings.
The demandants also read 'the surveys of M'Neal, the one made
out in this case, and the one made out in the.action of ejectment
lately depending before this court between the same parties, which
surveys are made .part.of this bill of exceptions, by reference, 'and
also introduced the said M'Neal, who stated on oath, that he was
at the place shown on the plat as-the beginning corner of Kincaid's
two thpusand acre survey ; that the trees stood in an island of Pond
creek, and that the letters W. H were made on each: of the large
trees, and on-one of them, the letters I. K..were also marked ; that he
r.un the line iunning south -from that, point, and observed two sets
of
marks, the one appearing, old, and the other not so old as Kincaid's
survey ; that the old line trees appeared about as old as the co-rner
trees and the letters, but that either Was- as old as the surveys.of
Kincaid, he could not say ; that all he could say was, that himself
and others thought corner.tr~es and the old ma'ks on the line, were
made at the same time; that he had cut out a block on the line, it
appeared to count for an old line, but,ithad grown so close'that he
could not. count the annulatidns. • The witnesses stated that in running the south line, he had cr.ssed Rockcastle three times before he.
reached the corner, pursuing the course of the patent in the manner
represented in the connected. plat in this cause, and that the plat
correctly represents Rockcastle river, where it is crossed by the
several lines of Kincaid's two thousand, as run by him and laiddown in the plat aforesaid. The plat made out in the action of
ejectrment, and which was read in evidence, as -aforesaid, was objected to as incompetent evidence in this cause, by the defendants,
but the objection overruled.. M'Neal also stated, that in the plat
made out in the ejectment case, Rockcastle river, except where it
was crossed by the first line from the place shown him in the begin-,
ning, was laid down by protraction only, but he had actually surveyed and laid. correctly the crossing of the river, by the different.
lines on the connected plat, in these causes; each of the demandants
admitted that he resided, at the commencement of these actions, at
the place represented as his residence on the plat, and su'veyor's report made in these causes, and that if the beginning corner of the
patent of James Kincaid, was at the point claimed by the demandants, the lands they respectively so hold, and claimed, were. within
the patent and deeds read in evidence by the demandants.

JANUARY TERM 1836.

1417

[Ellicott v. Pearl.]

The defendants then introduced the patent to Jacob Remey, and
Jacob Remey's deed to William Edwards, and William Edwards%
deed to the defendant, William Pearl, as follows [The patents*
were here introduced]. The patent was dated the. 15th of July
1789, and the land was described, as a ".certain tract or parcel of
land containing twenty-nine thousand pcres by survey, bearing date
th. 7th day of November 1786, lying and being in the county of Lincoln, on the waters of Rockcastle, and bounded as followeth, to wit,
beginning- three-quarters of a mile -south of the mouth of Raccoon
creek, and about ten poles from the same on the west side at two
white oak trees ; thence north two thousand four hundred and sixteen poles to a hickory and black oak trees; thence west one thousand nine hundred and twenty and a half poles to a white oak and
black oak trees ; thence south two thousand four hundred'and sixteen poles to a white oak ; thence east one 'thousand nine hundred
and twenty and a half poles to the beginning, with its appurtenances."
They then proved by the iaia WNeal, that the deeds aforesaid of
Remey to Edwards, and from Edwards to Pearl, include the land
in contest, and are correctly represented on the connected plat; that
he had'followed an old marked line from the mouth of Raccoon creek,
running north, and out of which he cut two blocks, which he
thought counted to the date of Remey's survey.
That he had lived in the part of the country where the land in
contest lies, upwards of thirty years, and had always known Rockcastle
river, and Raccoon creek, and Pond creek by their respective names,
since ever he had been acquainted in that part of the country ; that
he was on part of the lines' of Pearl's deed, in 1799, before Pearl
settled on the land, and that in the spring of 1800, William Pearl,
claiming the whole of the land described in his deed under the
patent to Remey, settled upon the land, as lie understood, intending
to take possession of his entire tract; and that Pearl, and those claiming under him, have held the possession of the land ever since, that
the settlement of Pearl aforesaid, was made at or near the figures II,
on the connected plat. That Pearl and those claining under him,
have always claimed to hold the land under Remey's patent; the
other defendants all claimed under Pearl. The defendant also introduced John Crook, who swore that lie was at the house of William Pearl in the spring of the year 1800, and that he was then
living on Rockcastle, near the place represented on the plat made
VOL. x.-3 c

SUPREME COURT,
[Ellicott v. Pearl.]

out in, this cause by the figures 11; that he came from the neighbourntood of Goose creek, or by Terrell's camp; and that Terrell's
camp was about four miles from Pearl's, rather east, and Pearl's was
all the settlementhe then knew of in that part of the country. He
vas not at that timc at the place represented on the plat as the
honse where James M'Cammon lived in 1801, nor 'could he say
whether M'Caminon was then living there or not, that place is
several miles distant from the place at which William Pearl then
lived.
,The defendant called Metcalfe, who stated that old James M'Cammon moved his.fanily and settled on the land in controversy at the
place represented as th6i house where James M'Cammon lived in
.1801 on said plat, either in 1800 or 1801, and he thought 1800 ; and
as he understood, under a purchase of a part of his land from William Pearl,.but how much he did not know, nor could he say. Ha
understood that M'Cammon had contracted with Pearl for part of
his land, and settled under that contract, dnd dontinued to hold the
.land aforesaid for a year- or two, when; by some arrangement or
agreement between M'Cammon and Pearl, he, M'Caminon, got
other land, part of Pearl's same tract, and Pearl took the place aforesaid ; that the place first settled by M'Cammon had been ever since
held and possessed by M'Cammon,. Pearl and others hulding uider
him ; he could not say vhether his land was marked out to hiim or
not ; but he said he never heard it was, nor did he ever hear that
any deed was made : he also said, upon being interrogated by demandant's counsel, that one Hardy Hart settled under a contract of
purchase from Remcy, about the same time, he thought, at or near
the same place ; that he could not say what year it was ; he said
that he could not speak positively of the year. M'Cammion first settled, but it was the sane year one. of his children was born ; and he
always thought it was on the same year his daughter Jenny was
born mtil he caine here, but she being of the same age that a brother
of M'Neal the surveyor was, and M'Neal's brother being, as he was
then told by M'Neal, thirty-one years old next July, he had, on reflectinmg upon the subject, becQne satisfied that it was his daughter
who Ile
lought was about two years older than Jenny that was
born abouw, the same'time that M'Carnmon settled 'as aforesaid, so
that iIe/ had concluded that M'Cammon had settled either 1800 or
1801 ; and fhat he thought that he and Pearl settled about the

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Ellicott v. Pearl.]

same time ; and that the land has been settled and held by one or
another under Pearl's. claim ever since.
M'Neal was then called, and stated that lie could not state when
M'Cammon settled ; that all lie could state was that his, M'Cammon's boys, were there making the improvements for their father.the
fall before he, M'Cammon, brought his family and settled, as witness
had in the spring of the year assisted them to roll. logs, at which
time the old man had hot removed to tho place, from which lie inferred that they I ad been there the winter before ; but could not say
when they did first go on tJhe land, nor could he state what year lie
rolled the logs; that Pearl settled near the figures IIas stated oil
his plat in the spring of the year 1800 ; that lie, Pearl, that year
made sugar and tapped trees within the one thousand acres of the
demandants as laid doNVI ; but his house and clearings did not interfere with the one thousand acres ; that his brothelr, that was of the
same age of Jenny the daughter of the witness, would be thirty-one
in next July ; that lie understood that Pearl settled at the figures II
claiming under his purchase of Edwards his w hole tract ; he was
asked by demandanuts' counsel, whether Pearl did not, tell him that
M'Cammon settled in 1801, and in answer lie said that at the direction of Pearl lie had represented the place on the plat to be the
one-at which M'Cammon lived in 1801.
The demandants then examined John Cook, who stated that lie
was acquainted with Hardy Hart, spoken of by the witness Metcalfe,.
and that he resided on Goose creek below the salt works in the month
of July 1802. That lie and the company arrived at the sail. works
on the 2d of July 1802 ; that the said Hardy Hart was then living
below the Goose creek salt works, on Goose creek, on Ihe south fork
of Kentucky ; that after lie arrived at the salt works, lie, and his
company, purchased corn of him, the said Hardy Hart, for their
wagon horses ; that he continued to reside there some time afterwards, how long lie could not say, but lie thought until fall, when
he removed to Rockcastle, and settled near to William Pearl's.
The dentandants, to show that Rimey's patent did not cover t heir
patents, but that it covered land at or near the nouth of Pond creek,
read the deposition of James Kincaid, and which is made a part of
this bill of exceptions.
[The deposition of James Kincaid stated in substance, that he
received Thompson's wairant from Allen, and bound himself to
locate and make the survey. He received Remey's warrant from

SUPREME COURT.
[Ellicott v. Pearl.]

Nathaniel Grigsby. He was never at the mouth of Raccoon creek,
until he went there in company with' George Thompson, between
1796 and 1799. Before he made the survey, he did not particularly
understand the geography of the country. He went from the Crab
orchard ; and we went what was called the Crab orchard trace' but
we did not travel the trace as far as the Hazelpatch. He had travelled the trace before, and he thought he could go a nearer way to
Raccoon creek through the woods.. He was apprised of the place
where the trace crossed Raccoon creetc; and when we got in the flat
near the Hazelpatch we turned off to the left. hand to strike the
mouthof Raccoon creek; and after travelling some distance we struck
a water course, supposed by me to be Raccoon creek ; and he went
down it to the mouth, or to where it and another creek came together; and we supposed that was the mouth of Raccoon creek.
George Wilson, Reuben Terrell, William Moore and a young man
by the iname of Myres were there ; and he don't remember others, but
he thinks there was another man by the name of Crow.
The following was the manner of making the survey: we. went
there in the evening late, and encamped on a little dry branch above
the mouth of the creek on the south side ; recollects the next lilorning he saw spruce pines standing on the bank, both above and below
the mouth of the creek. Did not recollect of going to the mouih of
the creek; but took it for granted, from the appearance of the bottom
on the north side of.the river, that it must be the mouth of Raccoon
creek. And next morning after we got there, he thinks he went
down to the bluff, near the mouth of the creek; and George Wilson',
who was a young man that he was learning to survey; ie had a
compass, and lie started to run the north line; and myself and Reuben Terrell and William Moore, started and run the three quarters of
a mile south to the beginning corner; but he did not think he marked
the beginning corner that day, for we had but cne tomahawk in
the company, and George Wilson had taken that on the north line.
But after measuring three quarters of a mile from the mouth of the
creek, we then stopped and started to run the west line of Thompson's and Remey's surveys; this line he marked "thirdly," with a
butcher knife, and made Thompson's corner and Remey's with said
knife, and returned to the camp the same evening, near the mouth
o! the creek, and there he met with George Wilson; and he furnished him with his field notes of the uorth linelof Remcy's survey,
and we all went in company to the beginning, that he had ascer-

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Ellicott v. Pearl.]

tained the day before, and then made beginning corner with a tomahawk. We then etaaed and run the south line of Thompson's survey to the trace which was called Boone's trace, crossing it near the
top of a ridge dividing the waters of Little and Big Raccoon ; that is
what he now understands to be the waters of Big and Little Raccoon.
Where he crossed the trace he was more particular, and marked the
line more plain, and continued the line the length of the survey, and
made the corner.
He recollected to have run over a ridge from the mouth of the
creek to the beginning, and rose'a steep hill ; and after running the
distance called for, made Thompson's corner, and continued the line
to Remey's corner. Never has been at Remey's corner since. Described the trees at the corner. He did not think he crossed the
creek in running the south line of Thompson's survey. The survey
was thought to be at Raccoon creek, because it was intended to be
there ; and it was thought to be there until itwas discovered to be
Pond creek, through mistake; instead of Raccoon creek.
He discovered the mistake when he went to the mouth of Raccoon
creek in company with George Thompson and John Wood; George
Thompson and himself got John Wood to go and show us the nearest
way to the mouth of -Raccoon creek; and when they got there, he
told Thompson that was not the place he had made the survey; and.
Thompson replied and said that Wood said that was thi. mouth of
Raccoon creek. And at' that time lie held Allen's bond. for half ofThompson's survey, and.Thompson was about buying his interest in
(he land ; and whcn he told him that wasnot ie-place he made the
survey, Thompson told him lie would give him a certain sum for his
interest, provided he would then make the survey there, which lie
agreed to do; and Thompson said iflie would make the survey at
that place, lie would hold the land from the way the patent had issued, calling for the mouth of Raccoon creek; and that is the reason
that in the obligation to Thompson that the waters of Raccoon is not
named; but instead of Raccoon, the waters of Rockcastle was inserted ; for he told Thompson that he would not be responsible for the
land at Raccoon creek; and he knew the other expression could be
complied with, for he knew the survey was, made on Rockcastle.
John Kincaid and Jesse Shelton were present, when he marked
the course on the west bank of Raccoon creek. He was not with
Charles Smith when he made the survey at Pond creek. Neither
William Pearl nor Moore was with them. He was sent for and

SUPREME COURT.
[Ellicott v. Pearl.]

went to them, when they were near three miles from the course of
the west bank. He did not tell William Smith where the beginning
was, because Thompson had requested him not to do so. He has an
interest in Remey's dam ;and it would be worth more if the survey
could be established at Raccoon creek.
Has, since the original surveywvas made, been well acquainted
with both places, and has no doubt the survey was made at Pond
creek. He described the mouth of Pond and Raccoon creek particularly ; and he stated that he well recollected to have seen them when
the original survey was commenced.
On being asked what lie knew about a survey in the name of
Nathaniel Grigsby, of two thousand acres, lying on the north fork
of Rockcastle creek, entered on the 10th day of March 1784, he
answered:
"I made the entry, but had no knowledge of the place at that.
time b.ut by information; but I employed William Henderson, a
deputy surveyor, to make the, survey as above, and the following, to
wit: Thomas 'Shelton. one thousand acres on a treasury warrant,
No. 7746, as assignee of James Henderson, on the waters of Rockcastle, -to begin at Grigsby's south-east corner of his entry of two
thousand acres, as above entered the 3d dayr of August 1784. Also,
Thomas Shelton seven hundred acres on a treasury warrant, No.
7747; beginning at the beginifing corner of Grigsby's survey of two
thousand acres; and it appears from record that Hendeson did make
the said surveys, because I did obtain "patents for the same, and sold
the same, with other lands, to the agents of Robert and Samuel
Smith, but conveyed to the said Smiths by specialty, and acknowledged the same before the clerk of the court of appeals. Some time
afterward a young nian by the name of Curry, applied to me to
show the surveys of the land I had conveyed to said Smiths: I
referred him to said William Henderson, and I understood Henderson
did show said Curry said lands: and I also understood, from a Mr
Forbes, who was employed as chain carrier, that said Henderson, with
said Curry, run around the said land and fresh marked the lines.
Some time afterward my brother and myself went on to a certain
lick on an east-branch of Rockcastle, in order to bore for salt water:
after working some time, and sinking down upwards of thirty feet,
met with said Forbes, who then told us .wewere working within the
lines of one of the surveys above described, wherein he had been'
employed chain carrier for the purpose of ,fresh marking,. On receiving

JANUARY TERM 1836.

423,

(Ellicott v. Pearl.]

this information we quit our work and went and examined the survey under the direction of said Forbes, and went to the beginning
cornev, it being two beeches, plainly marked ; and it appeared to
correspond with the patent and things called for therein, namely,
the lick and the trees standing on the north side of the branch ; and
after examination we was so well satisfied that it was one of the
aforesaid surveys,.and that we were working within the lines of said
survey, we abandoned our work entirely. And this deponent further
sayeth that the two beeches described as the beginning of Nathaniel
Grigsby's tract of two thousand acres, stand on a creek now known
by the name of Pond creek, but an eastwardly branch of Rockcastle;
and I think and believe that the survey of twenty-nine thousand
acres of Jacob Remey, originally wade, does not interfere with the
aforesaid surveys from the aforesaid considerations; and this deponent further sayeth not."
The demandants also read to the jury the survey made out
by Lott Pitman,. which is also made a part of the bill of exceptions, by reference, and called said Pitman as a witness, who stated
that he made out said plat, and that he. found the objects as
stated, and that the statement in the notes to said plat he believes
to be substantially correct ; that he had counted the blocks chopped
out of tie line running north from the mouth of Raccoon creek, that
one, to wit, the one taken out the line nearest to the moiath of Raccoon creek, counted. to the date of a survey-made in 1786, and the
one taken farthest off corresponded to a survey of 1785. That he
had followed the marked line, running from the mouth of Raccoon
creek to a corner, said to be Ballard Smith's corner; and that he
found trees marked, as corner trees, corresponding with the call of
Smith and Robert Rutherford's surveys. The plaintiff then read
to him the surveys of Robert Rutherford, Ballard Smith, and asked
him- if the old line did not correspond to these surveys: he answered
it did, and that date of Robert Rutherford's survey corresponded with
the first block, and that of Smith's to that of the second shown by
M'Neal.
That the distance stated by M'Neal to the mouth of Raccoon,
where he cut out the first block, would, he thought, be in the line
of Rutherford, and vhere lie said lie cut out the second block, would
be in the line of Smith; he thought said witness stated that he had
done much surveying in that part of the country ; had much experience in tracing old lines, and in coqnting the annulations of marked

424

SUPREME COURT.
[Ellicott v. Pearl.]

lines: and that he knew of no survey in that part of the country of
the dates of 1785 or 1786, except the surveys of Rutherford, Ballard,
Smith and Remey, that he had long known the line leading north,
spoken of by the witness M'Neal, and had always heard it called
Rutherford's line to his corner, and then Smith's line.
That Rutherford's land was settled, and those claiming under
him claimed that line as one of his boundaries; said witness stated
that he began at the mouth of 'Pond creek, and run a south line to
the place shown where a white oak corner stood, and shown by
Camp Mullins and others, and then run a west line for the dividing
line between Thompson and Remey, and pursuing the line for some
distance, he saw ancient marks, apparently made with a knife, that
after he run some distance his compass left it, but, finding the line
again, he pursued it until they crossed Boon's old trace; near to the
trace, on both sides, he found the line marked more thickly; that the
marked line, thua found, when reversed, would lead to about where
Mullins showed the place for the corner; thet the line run as aforesaid was not a west line, but was run on a vtEriation of nine degrees
from the call. in the patent; that the ordinary variation of lines made,
when Remey's purports to have been made, isabout three degrees.
The demandants then called Camp Mullins,- who stated that,
a good many years ago, about twenty-four or twenty-five, hewas
taken to the mouth of Pond creek to search for Remey's survey, with
Charles Smith, the surveyor, Davis Caldwell, and
Moore; said
Moore said he was one. of the original chainmen; that they started
at the mouth of Pond creek, and run south. until the surveyor told
them the distance called in Remey's patent was out; and they then
turned out to hunt for the corner; that he found a white-oak standing
near to where.,the course and distance ended, plainly. -nd anciently
marked as a corner -tree. That he 'ecollectedit was marked on the
north and west sides, but could not say whether it was marked on
the south side or not; that the white oak was of a commoIncabin log,
and that near to the tree lay the trunk of a white oak not quite so
large; that the top of the log was burnt so that no chops appeared
on it, but that they turned it over, and found the under sideplainly
and anciently marked with three, chops, apparently done with the
same tool that the standing tree had been marked with; that they then
run north, and on the course of Remey's patent,,saw line trees plainly
marked, that appeared oldi and to have been made about the same
time, and the same kind of tool that the white oak corner did; and

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Ellicott v. Pearl,]

that they run the west line and saw marks made with a knife, drawing-knife of some kind; that heAhowed the place where said trees
were, to Lot Pitman and M'Neal, but that said tree and log are
now gone, and a hole or hollow place is Visible yet, where he thinks
the white oak stood.' That Moore, the chainman to Remey's original survey, is now dead.
That-on'the lines aforesaid there were many trees plainly marked,
and might be easily discovered. by any person pursuing the courses,
and also called Mullins, who stated that he was along with his brother Camp Mullins and others, when the the White oak tree was
found, and stated the same that Camp Mullins did as to the tree log
and lines.
The demandants then called Henderson, who stated that he had
been on the ground and shown the place spoken bf by Mullins; that
he had accompanied the.surveyor when running north from said tree:
that they saw no line trees now standing, but he saw several trees
standing near where the survey run, blazed ; that his object in going
onthe ground (he being agent of demandants) .was to find marked trees
on the, lines aforesaid, but after the most diligent search, neither he
nor any other in company, could find any marked trees; that there
were standing in the 'course of the line many trees. Pitman the
surveyor made the same statement.
The defendant then called Jthn Crook, who stated' that about
1801, he had been. called on as deputy surveyor by James Kincaid,
whose deposition demandants had read, to lay off Jacob Remey's
survey, in'which said James Kincaid.claimed an interest; that he
was taken to the place now claimed by defendants to be Remey's
beginning corner, three quarters of a mile *south of the mouth of
Raccoon creek, and shown by.said Kincaida white oak tree, or two
white oak trees as corners, and told by said Kincaid that he had made
the survey of Remey there; that he was directed by Kincaid to run
the'diagonal line from that to the north-west. corner, to see if the
survey would include a famous saltpetre cave then esteemed of great
value, claimed by said Kincaid under said patent of Remey ; that he
ran the line to a tree which Kincaid showed as a corner tree; that
tree was newly marked and not chopped through the rough bark;
and if it.
were in reality a corner and the beginning also, the survey
would include nearly forty thousand acres of surplus land; that in
making the survey aforesaid he acted under an order of court in a
suit in which Kincaid, the witness for demandants, was party or inVOL. x.--3 )

426

SUPREME COURT.
[Ellicott v. Pearl.]

interested; that Kincaid was interested in making Remey's patent.
cover the salipetre cave, and that 'if Retney's survey was originally
made at Pond creek, his patent boundary would approximate the
sallpetre cave, three or four miles nearer than if the survey had been
made to begin where Kincaid, then showed the beginning to him.
The defendant also called William Smith, who stated in substance
what Cook stated, and further stated that Kincaid-said that he would
make new lines look like ol'd ones, by putting aquafortis in the
chops, and lie stated that the chops on the white oak corner appeared
to be too old for 1798, but he could not .state how old it was; they
were not doubting that it was shown as the corner by Kincaid that
it was so ; did not count the annulations, and was then but little accusiomed to pursuing and hunting old lines; said witness stated that
when they run the diagonal line as stated by Crook, to the northwest corner, he felt satisfied that the survey to run from RaccQon could
not reach the saltpetre cave ; that to include7 the'cave seemed to be
a principal object with Kincaid; that it was then a bone of contention between Kincaid' and others, and he himself was interested in
defeating Kincaid in his attempt to include the cave by Remney's
survey; that the cavewas then considered of great value by all; that
Kincaid'had then got into possession of it, and was working it under
Remey's patent; said witness further stated, as did the witness Cook,
that Jo begin Remey's survey at the mouth of Pond creek, where Kincaid placed it in his deposition,- would place it several miles nearer to
the saltpetre cave ; lie thought at least three or four miles nearer, and
the same fact was proved by other witnesses.
Smith and Crook both'stated that the trees shown as aforesaid,
by Kincaid, as Remey's beginning,- were marked as corner trees,
such a's are called for in Remey's patent; that the marks had an
ancient appearance ; as they were convinced it was the beginning
corner, they could not pretend to judge from the appearance of the
marks, the exact time the ma-rks were made, but they were confideit they must have been made many years before 1798.
The defendants then called Titus Mershon, who stated that at
times he could not state, but thought several years since 1801, or,
the time ipoken of by.Crook and Smith ; that Kincaid, the witness,
told him that in the division of Remey's survey, he, Kincaid, had
got the north end and worst land, and desired the witness to let
Pearl know, that if he did not copsent to a division, that he would
prove the survey at the mouth of Pond creek ; that he could prove

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Ellicott v. Pearl.]

it at either place, for he had made a survey of it, bothat the mouth
of Pond creek, and at the mouth of Raccoon creek ; that at another
time, and subsequent to the conversation first detailed, Kincaid offered to him to buy state warrants in the name of the witness, and lay
them upon Pearl's land or Remey's survey, and Ihat lie would prove
Remey's survey at the mouth .of Pond crcel ; and that he, Kincaid, and the witness, Mershon, would divide the land between
them ; that no one was present at these conversations ; the witness
said that he rejected the proposition of Kincaid, and Kincaid .said if
he would not others would. Ile, the witness, said that Kincaid
went on to remark to him, that when lie made the survey at Raccoon creek, his brother-in-law, Wilson, was in company, and he,
Kincaid, informed the witness how it happened, that the corner
three-quarters of a mile from the mouth of Raccoon creek had not
been made on a true south course, and why the line had not been
properly mar ked ; lie said the ground, or some of it, was so they could
not run over it, and they took offiets and lost their reckoning; and
Kincaid said that when they so run from the mow i of Raccoon to the
beginning corner, some of the company went on one side of the
creek, and some on the other ; the witties:es all concurred in proving that ever since Pearl sPttied in 1801, le and hose hold iig ti
Under
him, have claimed tie land in coiv e.. under tli16 patcti of Remey.
The demandants tien i:alled Lot Pitma n, who slaled that flow about
the place spoken of by Crook and Smith, and shown to them as the
place of beginning fi' Reiey and T'omp! ons survey, and where
they saw a white oak corner, he had run a Weir line ihe distance
called for in Thompson's patent, at lhe end of which lie Ibmiid corner"
trees standing, marked to correspotld with TIhoiupson's patent ; t hat
he had cut or seen cut out of the said line several blocks; the an-.
nulations of which counted back to 1798. Said witness stated, that
to begin at Pond creek and run south the dlislance called for in
Remey's patent, to the place shown by Mullins, where tIt white
oak corner stood, the line did not cross Rockcastle and land on the
west side of that stream ; that Rockcastle, at its junction with Pond
creek, was narrow, and Pond crdek appeared wide, but that Rockcastle run, he thought, double the water that Pond creek did ; said
witness also stated, as did M'Ncal, that to run the course of Remey's
patent south from the mouth of Raccoon creek, the distance called
for, crossed Raccoon creek three times, and ended on the east side of
the creek, and about fifty poles from the place stated by Smith and

SUPREME COURT.
[Ellicott v. Pearl.]

Crook, as shown by Kincaid in 1801, for the beginning corner of
Remey and Thompson's surveys; said witness stated, and so did
M'Neal, that these two streams emptied into the east fork of ]Rockcastle river, called Raccoon, the one called Big Raccoon and the other
Little Raccoon ; that the stresm where Pearl claimed the survey to
be, was called Big Raccoon creek; that Little Raccoon empties into
Rockcastle, about two miles below Big Raccoon'. The defendants
then called CampMullins,who stated, that the white oak corner at the
-mouth of Pond creek, of which he had spoken, and the line running
north from it, appeared to be marked with a tomahawk, and also
Mullins, his brother, who stated the same.
The foregoing being the substance of the evidence given on both

sides, the plaintiffs offered to prove, by witnesses, that.William Moore,
whose name is put down as one of the- original, chain carriers in

making Remey's survey, was dead, and that he attended the witness, Camp Mullins, about twenty-four or twenty-five years ago,
when Charles Smith run.from the mcuth of Pond creek to the white
oak tree, and also run the line north running from the mouth of Pond
creek, and that while at the corner and running the line, he declared

that to be the corner made by Kincaid and the line run by Wilson by
the direction of Kincaid for Remey's original survey, and also to prove
what said decedent, chainman, had stated to others relative to the
boundary of Remey's patent, and the making of the original survey,
since the settlement and possession of Pearl on the land in controversy. To the giving the statement and declarations of said chain
carrier, though proven to be dead, while at the corner and on the
line, or at any other time or place since the survey was made, the
defendant objected as incompetent evidence for any purpose in this
cause, and his objection was sustained by the court, and the declaiation of the deceased chain carrier was'not permitted to be given in
evidence. To the which opinion of the court, in refusing the evidence
or any part of it, the demandants excepted, and prayed the court to
sign and seal this their bill of exceptions. (No. 1.)
lfenzorandum.-After the defendant had given in evidenr.6 the
conversations and declarations of Jame's Kincaid, with the witnesses,
Mershon, Smith, and others, with a view to discredit it, Kincaid, and

to show that he had stated that survey was mrade by him at the
mouth of Raccoon for Remey when it was his interest to place it at
Pond creek, as it might then with !ess surplus -include the saltpetre
cave. The demandants, with a view to sustain Kincaid, and to

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Ellicott v. Pearl.]

report the statements going to show his interest, offered witnesses to
prove the statements and conversations of Kincaid, and corresponding
with the statements made in his deposition, relative to his making
the surveys of Thompson and Remey: to the giving such statements and conversations in evidence for the purpose aforesaid, or any
other, the defendants objected; upon which the court inquired of the
counsel for the demandants, whether the statements of Kincaid,
which he proposed to give in evidence, were made prior or subsequent
to the time when the statements to the contrary were made by him,
as given in evidence by the tenants: to which he ar.swered he did
not know, but he supposed subsequent; and thereupon the objection
was sustained by the court, and the evidence excluded; to which
opinion of the ccurt the demandants exrcept and pray, &c. (No. 2.)
The defendant, to prove the boundaries of the demandants, as laid
down on the plat and claimed by them, give in evidence the original
plats and certificates of surveys of James Kincaid's two thousand
and one thousand acres surveys, and then examined demandants'
witness, M'Neal, the same perscn first introduced by them to
prove their boundary, who stated that the water courses, as found
on the ground, did notIcorrespond with those represented in said
plats; and after being examined by demandants' counsel, for the
purpose of proving that the marks on the trees claimed by them
as the corner and lines'of their surveys were as ancient as said surveys; and also as to the position and otherwise of the lines and corners claimed by them, and represented on the plat made in this
cause and used before on this trial, stated on the cross-examination
of the defendants' counsel, that some of the lines trees marked to
suit the calls of said surveys, appeared to be younger, and others,
from their appearance, might be as old as the date of said plats; and
the plaintiff to counieract this evidence, and to sustain his claim,
offered in evidence the following survey made out by M'Neal, in an
action of ejectment formerly depending between the same parties,
and for the same land in this court, which he obtained from the
papers in that cause in the progress of this trial; demandants
proved that the tenant Pearl had notice of the time of the making said survey. To the reading of which report for the purpose aforesaid or for any other in evidence in this cause, the defendant objected, and the court refused so much of said report
as stated the appearance as to age and otherwise of the lines
and corners, &c., to go in evidence to jury, and caused to be

SUPREME COURT.
[Ellicott v. Pearl.]

erased from the plat the following words [here words erased or underscored were inserted], and permitted tie balance of the report and
plat to go in evidence. To which opinion of the court in refusing
the remarks, and notes of the surveyor, M'Neal, to be given in evidence as aforesaid, the demandants except, and pray the court to
si -n, &c. this their bill of exceptions. (No. 3.)
The evidence being closed, the. demandants moved the court to
instruct the jury, that if they believe, from tie evidence, that the
survey. of Jacob Remey, and the adjoining survey of George Thompson, was in point of fact made at the mouth of Pond creek, by beginning at or near the letter L on tile plat, that the law locates the
patent on. the ground where it was actually surveyed, notwithstanding the call or reference in said patents, or of either of them, to the
mouth of Raccoon creek; and if they find that the patent of Remey,
as surveyed, does not interfere with the claim of'the plaintiffs, that
they ought to find for the plainrtiff, unless they find that defendants
have had possession by an actual residence or fence, within the patent
of plaintiffs, thirty years or more next before the bringing of these.
This instruction the court ov'errulqd as moved, but struck out the
word fence and inserted in the stead thereof, Ile words "improvements with the intention of taking possession."
Tile instruction, go amended, was givern to the jury, and the jury
were also informed by the couri, that the tapping or cutting the
sugar trees for the purpose of making sugar, and so using them, and
the land, would not avail the tenant undcr the act of. limitations.
The demandatits further moved the court to instruct the jury as follows : 2d. To instruct the jury that the settlement of William Pearl
at or near the 1I, as dcsignated on the plat in 1S00, outside of the
patents ,-der which the demandants claim, does not give any defence
or limitation to the demandants' right to recover, though he settled
within what he supposed to be Remey's claim, unless they find that
Remey's survey, as actually made, and on which his patent issued,
includes said settlement and the patent under which demandants
claim. 3d. That unless they find that. Remey's survey covers the
patents under which the plaintiffs claim, that the settlement of
M'Cammon within the two thousand does not give a claim to a
possession within the one thousand acre patent: nor does the possession within the one thousand acre patent give any possession
Within the two thousand acres.
That as to the two thousand acres the statute iruns as to that from

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Ellicott v. Pearl.]

the time a possession was taken by an actual residence or by fencing,
and the same as to the one thousand ; consequently that if they
find that one has been thus possessed adversely for thirty years next
before the bringing of this suit, and the other not ; that as to the
other not so held, they should find against such defendants as were
withii such parent at the date of the demandants' writ, provided,
these settlements are not included in Remey or Thompson's"as originally surveyed.
4th. To instruct the jury that if they find from the evidence that
James Kincaid, the surveyor of Remey-and Thompson did in point
of fact mak:e the surveys of Remey and Thompson, or cause them
to be made, and the patents issued.thereon, beginning at or near the
mouth of Pond creek, as designated on the connected plat, and that
after he 'returned the certificate of survey and patents issued thereon,
marked or caused to be marked, surveys with lines or corners to correspond with the calls of the patents at Raccoon creek, that such
marking or surveying is utterly void and vests no title whatever in
Remey, or his alienee, notwithstanding such surveys or marking
may include the land in contest,
5th. -That if they find Kincaid's beginning corner to be as represented on the plat, that then, as to this controversy, his surveys are
properly laid down.
The court overruled the instructions, number three, but give the
other three instructions.
To which decisions of the court in refusing to give to the jury xe
demandants' instructign, No. 1, as.moved; and.in refusing to give
to the jury their instructions, No. 3 ; the demandants by their counsel excepted, at the time of the decisions, and now prayed that their
bill of exceptions might be signed, sealed and enrolled, &c.
.After the demandants had moved for the instructions stated in
their fourth bill of exceptions, the defendant moved the following
instructions.
1. That. to enable the demandants to recover, they must have
proved, to the satisfaction of the jury, that they, or those under'whom
they claim, have had seisin of the land in contest within thirty years
next before the. commencement of their suits.
2.. That if they find, from the evidence, that Remey's patent includes the land in contest, they must find for the tenants.
3. That if.they find, from the evidence, that Remey's patent does

SUPREME COURT.
[Ellicott v. Peaxl.]

not cover the land in contest, yet if they find, from the evidence, that
the tenants, or any of them, or those claiming under them, or any
of them, have had possession of the land in contest for thirty years
next before the commencement of the demandants' suits, they must
find for the tenants.
4. That the plat and certificate of survey of Nathaniel Grigsby,
upon which the patent for two thousand acres issued, is evidence,
though not conclusive, of the objects notqd by the surveyor, which
the court gave, except the first instruction -moved for by defendants,
to Which opinion of the court, in giving the second, third, fourth, fifth
and sixth instructions, moved by the defendant as aforesaid, the demandants excepted, &c.
The demandants prosecuted this writ of error.
-The case was argued by Mr Underwood, and by Mr Hardin, for
the plaintiffs in error. No counsel appeared for the defendant.
Mr Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the court.
This is a writ of error to the judgment of the circuit court for the
district of Kentucky, upon a writ of right, sued forth on the 17th of
January 1831 ; in which the plaintiffs in error were the demandants.
The proceedings are in the form .prescribed by the statute of Kentucky ; and the cause was tried upon the issue joined by the parties.
There were several writs of right against other tenants of distinct
parcels of the same tract of land, held by the tenants, respectively,
under a common title; and all of them were tried at the same time,
by consent of the parties; as the same evidence was applicable to each.
The demandants claimed title through intermediate conveyances
to a tract of land of two thousand acres, lying on the east fork of
Rockcastle, in Lincoln county, under a patent granted to James
Kincaid, by the commonwealth of Kentucky, dated the P'd day of
February 1796; and also another tract. of land, containing one thousand acres, on the waters of Rockcastle, on the south side and contiguous to that of two. thousand, on a like patent, dated on the same
day.
The tenants claimed title to the premises under a patent from the
commonwealth of Virginia, to Jacob Remey, of twenty thousand acres
of land, lying on the waters of Rockcastle, dated on the 15th of July
1789. Remey, on the 20th of November 1799, conveyed thirteen
thousand four hundred acres of the same tract to William Edwards:

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Ellicott v. Pearl.]

and Edwards, on the 26th of December 1799, conveyed seven thousand acres of the same tract, by metes and bounds, to William Pearl,
the tenant, under whom all the other tenants claim; The conveyance to Pearl comprehends all the land in controversy; and the same
land is also included in the patents to Kincaid.
At the trial, evidence was introduced by the tenants to prove that in
1800, Pearl entered into and settled on the tract of land so conveyed
to him, intending to take possession of the whole tract; and that he,
and those claiming under him, have had possession of the same land
ever since, and have-always claimed to hold the land under Remey's
patent. Evidence was also introduced to prove, that James M'Cammon (whose name is mentioned, as we shall hereafter see, in the
bill of exceptions), moved his family and settled on a part of the land
in controversy, either in the year 1800 or 1801, under a purchase
from Pearl; but how much land he purchased or held did not appear; and about two years afterwards, by some arrangements between them, M'Cammon took some other part of Pearl's land, in the
sarhe tract, and Pearl took the place where M'Cammon had settled.
Pearl's original settlement was a little outside of the southern bounds
of Kincaid's thousand acre tract; between Sugar Camp branch and
Rockcastle: and M'Cammon's original settlement was within Kincaid's two thousand acres, south of Moore's creek.
The demandants then introduced evidence to show that Remey's
patent did not cover the lands patented to Kincaid, but that it covered
land at or near the mouth of Pond creek; and that the survey of
Remey was in fact. made on Pond creek, (which was outside of the
western boundary of Kincaid's patent), as the beginning corner,
under a mistake that it was Raccoon creek. If so made, it was clear,
from the plea, that Remey's survey was surveyed off the land in
controversy.
The foregoing are all the portions of the evidence which seem
necessary to be stated in order fully to understand the bearing of the
questions made at the trial.
The first question was upon the admissibility of the evidence of
witnesses, offered by the demandants, to prove that one Moore, whose
name was put down asone of the original chain carriers, in making
Remey's survey, was dead; and that, he attended with the witness,
.Cantp Mullins, -about twenty-four or twenty-five years ago, when
one Charles Smith run from the mouth of Pond creek to the white
-oak-tree, and.also run the line north from the mouth of Pond creek:
VOL. X.--3 E

SUPREME COURT.
[Ellicott v. Pearl.]

and while at the corner and runnin)g the line, he declared that to be
the corner made by Kincaid (the surveyor), and the line run by Wilson, by the direction of Kincaid, for Remey's original survey: and
also to prove what Moore had said to others relative to the boundary
of Remey's patent, and the making of the original survey, since the
settlement and possession of Pearl on the land in controversy. This
evidence being objected to, was rejected by the court: and this constitutes the matter of the first exception of the demandants.
We are of opinion that the evidence was properly rejected. It was
'not merely hearsay, but hearsay not to matters of general reputation,
or common interest among many, but to specific parts, viz. (lte m,.enner and place of running the boundary lines of Remey's patent.
The general rule is, thht evidence, to be admissible, should be given
under the sanction of an oath, legally administered ; and in iTjudicial proceeding, depending between the parties affected by it, or
those who stand in privity of estate, or interest with them. So it
was laid down by Lord Kenyon, in his able opinion in the King v.
Enswell, 3 T. Rep. 721. Certain exceptions have, howe.ver, been.
ailowed, which perhaps may be as old as the rule itself. But these
exceptions stand upon peculiar grounds; and, as was remarked by
Lord Ellenborough in Weeks v. Sparke, I M. & Selw. 686;, the
admission of hearing evidence, upon all occasions, wheiher in matters of public or private right, is somewhat of an anomaly. Hearsay
-is admitted in cases of pedigree; of prescriptive rights and customs ;
and some other cases of a public or quasi public nature. In cases of
pedigree, it is admitted upon the ground of necessity, or the great
difficulty, and sometimes the impossibility of proving remote facts
of this sort by living witnesses. But in these cases it is only admitted, when the tradition comes from persons intimately connected, or
in close relalion with the family; or from sources of a kindred nature,
which, ini a general sense, may be said to import verity ; there being
no lis nota or other interest to affect the credit of their statement.
So the lawv was expounded by Lord Kenyon in The King v. Enswell, 3 Term Rep. 723, and by Lord Eldon in Vowvles v. Young, 13
Ves. 143,.ard inWhitlocke v. Baker, 13 Ves. 514.
In cases of prescriptive rights and customs, and other claims of a
public nature, tradition and reputation have been in like manner
admitted.. They are all cases of a general right, aflcting a number
of persons, having a common interest. . in Morehead v.Wood, 14
East's Rp. 329 (note), Lord Kenyon state( the general ground of

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Ellicot v. Pearl.]

this exception .thus: "evidence of reputation upon general points is
receivable, because all mankind being interested therein, it is natural
to suppose, that they may be conversant with the subjects, and that
they should discourse together al)out them, having all the .same
means of information." " But," he says, "how can this apply to
private titles, either with regard to particular customs or private prescriptions ? How is it possible for strangers to know any thin- that
concerns only their private titles ?" Lord Ellenborough, in Weeks v.
Sparke, I M. & Selw. 686, commenting on this distinction between
public and private rights, said, " I confess myself at a loss fully to
understand upon what principle, even in matters of public right,
reputation was ever deemed admissible evidence. It is said, indeed,
that upon questions of public right al are interested, and must be
presumed conversant with them ; and that -is the distinction taken.
between public and private rights. But I must confess I have not
been able to see the force of the principle, on which that distinction
is founded, so clearly as others have done ; though I must admit its
existence." And in that case, which was the case of the claim of a
prescriptive right to common by the defendants, as appurtenant to a
messuage; evidence of reputation was admitted on the part of the
plaintiff to qualify that right, because the right in some sense partook of the i'ature of a public right, as it was understood, that there
were other persons standing in par jure with the defendant ; and,
therefore, it was a cquestion between the plaintiff, and a multitude of
persons. And, indeed,.the distinction seems now clearly established
in England,.thmt hearay,.or reputation, or tradition, is not admissible in cases of mere private riglhts ; but only in cases of public rights,
or those quasi publici, involving similar interests by a number of persons. (a) Perhaps a reason may be found which, upon general principles, would well support this distinction. It is, that in regard to private
rights, the acts, possession and assert:on of title by the-parties claiming for themselves are, in all cases, susceptible of direct proof; but in
cases of public rights, the acts, possession and assertion of title by
many persons, not in privity with each other, cannot be explained
or qualified to be in furtherance of acommon public right; unless the
evidence of general reputation were admissible to explain the intention and objects of the parties in those acts, or that possession or as(a) See Morehead v. Wood, 13 East's Rep. 327, note, 329; 1 Phillips on Enid. ch.
7, sect. 7, third ed. p. 190.; 1 Stark. Ev. 32, scco"' 1 London ed.; Don v. Thomas, 14
East's Rep. 323 ; Freeman v. Phillipq, 4 M. & Seiw. 491.

SUPREME COURT.
[Ellicott v. Pearl.]

sertion of title : thatis to say, whether done in furtherance of a common right, or of a private right.
It is. upon the ground of this same distinction, that general
reputation is admitted in England in cases of disputed boundaries
between parshes and-manors: because the right affects many persons,
and is ol public nutoriety and interest as to all the inhabitants of
the parish or manor.(a) And yet, in England, it has been held, at
ntisi prius, (though the point has riot been settled by the highest auIhority) that general reputation as-to the boundaries between private
estates is not admissible evidence. That was so held by Baron Graltim, in Clothier v. Chapman ; cited in 14 East's Rep. 331, note.(b)
The doctrine in America, in respect to boundaries, has gone further ;
and has admitted evidence of general reputation as to boundaries
between contiguous private estates ;(c)-but there it has stopped.
These are the principal, if not the only classes'of cases, in which
hearsay and reputation have been deemed admissible evidence. The
exclusion of it, in other cases, stands-upon the general conside'ration
that it is not upon oath ; that the party affected 6y it has no oppor-.
.tunity of cross-examination ; that it often supposes bette r evidence
behind ; that it is peculiarly liable to be obtained by fraudulent contrivances; and above all, that it is exceedingly infirm, unsatisfactory
and intrinsically weak in its very nature and character. On these
accounts judges in fibodern times have leaned against any extension
of it, as being subversive of the security of the titles of parties to property : for upon a strict adhereude to the rules of evidence that security must essentially depend. Thiswill be clearly seen by what fell
from the court in The King v. Enswell, 3 T. R. 707. In that case
Mr Justice Buller, though in favour of the admission of the evidence
upon the ground of authority,' said : "the true line for courts to adhere to is, wherever evidence, not on oath, has been repeatedly received and sanctioned by judicial determinations, it shall Ite allowed ; but beyond that, the rule that no evidencu shall be admitted.but
what is upon oath, shall be observed." The doctrine of the other
judges, on that occassion, went to the same extent. In Doe v.
(a) Nichols v. Parker, cited 14 East's Rep. 331, note; Paxton v. Dare, 10 B. &
Cres. Rep. 17.
(b)

See also 1 Stark. Ev. p. 33, 34, second London ed.; Phillips on Ev. ch. 7,

.ect. 7, p. 189, 190, third ed.

But see laries v. Mawson, 1 M. & Selw. 77, S1.

(c) See Cahtijan v. Presbyterian Congregation, 6 Binn. 59; Conn v. Penni I
Peters's C. Rep. 4!Xi, ;M1, 512. See also The King v, Enswell, 3 T. Rep. 719.'

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Ellicott v. Pearl.]

Thomas, 14'E~st's Rep. 323, the court held, evidence of reputation,
that the land had belonged to J. S. and was purchased of him by the
first testator, though coupled with corroborative parol evidence that
the same had belonged .to J. S., was inadmissible; upon the ground
that reputation was not admissible to prove the ownership of private
property. (a) And Mr Chief Justice lansfield, in delivering his
opinion in the case of the Berkeley Peerage, (4 Campb. Rep. 414,
445), after stating that by the general rule of law, nothing said by
any person can be used as evidence between contending parties unless it is delivered on oath, in the presence of those parties; said, ,with
two exceptions this is adhered to in all civil cases: first, on the trial
of rights of common and other rights claimed by prescription: and
secondly, on questions of pedigree." Perhaps this enumeration will,
upon close examination, be foun'4 too narrow; but it shows the strictness with which the exception in favour of hearsay tradition and
reputation is constantly construed, as being against the general prinqiples of evidence.
In this court a like restricted doctrine has been maintained. In
Mima Queen v. Hepburn, 7 Cranch 290, Mr Chief Justice Marshall, in delivering the opinion of the court, said, "if other cases (of
hearsay) standing on sinilar principles should arise, it may well be
doubted, whether justice and the general policy of the law, would
warrant the creation of new exceptions. The danger of admitting
hearsay evidence, is sufficient to admonish courts of justice against
lightly yielding to the introduction of fresh exceptions tb an old and
well established rule; the value of which is felt and acknowledged
by all."
These, and other cases also, fully justify the conclusion, (which is
indeet' stated by elementary writers) that in order to authorize the
admission of hearsay evidencei (except in cases of pedigree) three
things must generally concur : first, that the fact to which the reputationor tradition applies, must be of a public nature : secondly,
if the rel~utation or tradition relate to the exercise of a right or privilege, it must be supported by acts of enjoyment or privilege within
the period of living memory: thirdly, that it must not be reputation
or traditionary declarations to a particular fact. (b)
(a) See Blarkett v. Lowes, 2 M. & Selw. 494.
(b) See 1 Starkie's Evidence 32, 35, second London 'edition ; I Phillips on Evidence, ch. 7, see. 7, p. 178, 192; Morewood v. Wodd, 14 Easts Rep. 327, note.

SUPREME CC

1T.

[Ellicott v.Pearl.]

This last qualification is most important in the present case, as it
applies directly to it, and is established by clear and decisive authority. In Antram v. Wood, 5 Term Rep. 123, lord Kenyon said,
"although a general right may be proved by traditionary evidence,
yet a particular fact cannot :" and Mr Justice Grace (the only other
judge then in court) concurred in that opinion. That was a case
where hearsay evidence was offered to establish the identity of lands,
and thereby a right to the coals in them ; and it was held inadmissible.
The same doctrine was recognized by lord Ellenborough, in Weeks
v. Sparke, I M. & Solw. 687; whelre, referring to evidence of perambulations; he-admitted that they were not evidence of a particular act
done, as that such a turf was dog, or such a post put down in a particular spot. So Mr Chief Justice Mansfield, in his opinion on the
Berkeley Peerage case, 4 Camp. Rep. 415, after alluding to the evidence of what dead men have said, as to the reputation of a right of
way, common and the like, said, "a declaration, ,vith regard to a
particular fact, which would -support or negative the right, is inadmissible." Even in cases nearly approaching to those of pedigree,
where hearsay is admissible of particular facts, such as marriages,
births and deaths, and their respective times ; it has been held, that
hearsay as to'the place of birth, is not admissible ; for it turns upon
a single fact, that of locality, and that ought to be proved by the
ordinary course of evidence. Rex v. Erith, 8 East's Rep. 539. In
Mima Queen v. Hepburn, 7 Cra.ncn 290, the court decided, that
hearsay evidence was not admissible to prove a specific fact, although
the witnesses to the. fact were dead ; and, therefore, evidence of
hearsay that the aicestor of a person, suingr for freedom, was free,
was held inadmissible. The same point was again decided in Davis
v. Wood, I Wheat. 6,- 3 Cond. Rep. 465.
Upon these doctrines and authorities, we are of opinion, that the
evidence in the plesent exception stated, was rightly rejected. It
was evidence not to general reputation as to boundary ; but to particula" facts and circumstances attendant upon the original making
of Remey's survey.
The next exception is founded upon the refusal of the court to
permit testimony to be given of the declarations of. one Kincaid (the
surveyor of Remey's survey), under tile following circ'unstances :
Kincaid had been examined as a witness for the deniandants, (by
way of dbposiiion) ald the telianl ., thereupon, gave )nevidence the
conversations anddecla rations of Killcaid,-to cerita iii winiesses, in order

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Ellicott v. Pearl.]

to discredit his (Kincaid's) testimony, and to show that he had
stated, that the'survey was made by him, at the mouth of Raccoon
creek, for Remey, when it was his interest to place it at Pond creek.
The demandants then,. with a view to sustain Kincaid, and to support the statements going to his interest, offered witnesses to prove
the statements and conversations of Kincaid at other times, corresponding with the statements made in his deposition, relative to his
making the surveys of Thompson and Remey; and it being suggested
b r the demandants, upon an inquiry fromn the court, that these statements and conversations were sutbsequent to those testified to by the
tenants' witnesses; the court, upon an objection taken by the tenants, excluded the -evidence. In our opinion, the evidence was
rightly excluded.
Where witness proof has been offered against tie testimony
of a witness under oath, in order to impeach his veracity, establishing that he has given a different accomt at another time,
we 'are of opinion that, in general, evidence is not, adinissihle, in
order to confirm his testimiony, to piove that at other times he has
givel the same account as he has tunder oath,; for it is but his mere
declaration of the fact ; and that is not evidence. His testimony
under oath is better evidence than his confirmatory declarations not
tunder oath ;.and the repetition of his assertions does not carry his eredibitity further, if so far as his oath. We say in general, because
there are exceptions ; but they are of a peculiar nature, not applicable to the circumstances of the present case as where the testimony
is assailed as a fabrication of a recent date, or a complaint recently
inade ; for there, in order to repeL such imputlation, proof.of the
antecedent declaration of the party may be admitted..
It is trite, that in Lutlerel v. Reynell, 1 Mod. Rep. 282, it was
held, that thotigh hearsay be not allowVed as dir~ct evidence, yet it
may be admitted in corroboration of a witness's testinony, to Show
that lie airmed he same thing, ipon owher occasions, and that he
is still constalit to himself. Lord Chief Baron Gilbert lias asserted
the same opinion, in his Ticatise on Evilctie, page 135. But
Mr Justice Buller, in his Nisi P'ins Treatise, page 94, saks, " but
clearly it is not evidence in chief; and it seems doubtful whether it
is so in reply or ntt." The same qtitc;tion came before the htouee of
lords, in the Berkeley Peerage case ; and itwas there said by lord
Redesdale, that he liad always understood that for the lrpose of
impugning the testinony of a witkness, iis declarations at another
time might be inquired into; but not for the purpose of confirming

SUPREME COURT.
[Ellicott v. Peaw].]

his evidence. 'Lord Eldon expressed his decided opinion, that this
was the true rule to be observed by the counsel in the cause.(a)
Lord Chief Justice Eyre is also represented to have rejected such
evidence ; when offered on behalf of the defendant-in a prosecution
for forgery.(b) We think this is not only the better, but the true
opinion ; and well founded on the general principles of evidence.
There is this additional objection to the admission of the confirmatory evidence in the present case, that it is of subsequent declarations ; which would enable the witness at any time to control the
effect of the former declarations, which lie w!as concious that he had
made, and which he might now have a motive to-qualify or weaken,
or destroy.
In the farther progress of the cause, the tenants,, in order to prove
the boundaries of. the demandants' land, as laid down in the plat,
and claimed by them; gave in evidence the original plats and certificates of survey of Kincaid's two thousand and one thousand acre
tracts; and then examined M'Neal, a witness of the demandants,
who was. first introduced to prove their boundary: who stated that
the water courses, as found on the ground, did not correspond with
those represented on the said plats: and after being examined by
the demandants,for thepurpose of proving that the marks on the
trees; claimed by them as the corner and lines of their surveys, were
as ancient as the said surveys, and also as to the position and other*wise of the. lines and corners claimed by them, dnd represented on
the plat made and-used at the trial ; stated, on the cross examination
of the tenants' counsel, that some of the lines, marked to suit the
*calls of the said surveys, appeared to be.younger, and others, from
their appearance, might be as old as the date of the said plats. The
demandants, to counteract this-evidence, and to sustain their claim.;
offeted in evidence a survey, made out by M'Neal, in an. action of
ejectment formerly depending between the same parties for the same
land,.of which survey Pearl had due notice. The tenants objected
to the reading of the explanatosy report accompanying this survey,
and the court refused to allow so much thereof as stated the appearance as to age and otherwise of thp lines and corners to go in evidence to the jury; and accordingly caused -to be erased from the plat
the words following, viz. "ancient" (chops);-" John Forbes, Jun.,
(a) Cited in I Phillips on -Ividonce. h. 8, page 213, note, [230 note] ; 1 Starkie's
Evidence 187, second London edition, and n9te (n).
(b) Ibid..

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Elleiott v. Pearl.)

states he cut the same letters and figfures ;"-" on the east side, the
chops appear to have been marked with a larger axe, than the chops
on the beginning tree ;"-and then permitted the residue of the
report and plat to go in evidence. This constitutes the third exception of the demandants.
We are of opinion, that there Was no error in this refusal of the
court. Strictly speaking, the deinandants had no right, upon the
principles already stated, to give in evidence any other prior statements of M'Neal to confirm his'testimony. But, in truth, the evidence was offered to discredit, in part, his present testimoy: and
certainly the demandants were not at liberty to discredit their own
witness by showing his former declarations on the same subject;
though they might show by other witnesses that he was mistaken.
But independent of these objections, the evidence was inadmissible
upon general principles. It was. mere hearsay. The survey, made
by a surveyor, being under oath, is evidence as to all things which
are properly within tho line of his duty. But his dtity is confined to
describing. and marking on the plat, the lines, corners, trees, and
other objects on the ground, and to subjoin such remarks as may
explain them : but in all other respects, and as to all other facts, he
stands, like any othe vitness, to be examined on oath in the presence of the parties; and subject to cross examination. The reasorf
why a survey, made by a public surveyor in discharge of his public
duties, is admitted as evidence in suits between other parties, is, not
that it is hearsay; but that the act is officially done under oath, and
in discharge of his duties to the government and the public. But it
has-never been supposed, that if in such a survey the surveyor should
go on to state collateral facts, or declarations of the parties, or other
matters, not within the scope of his proper official functions ; he could
thereby make them evidence as between third persons.
In the further progress of the trial, the demandants, after the evidence was closed on both sides, moved the court to instruct the jury
that if they believed, from the evidence, that t.be survey of Remey
and the adjoining survey of Thompson, were, in point of fact, made
at the mouth of Pond Creek, by beginning at or near the lefter L,
on the plat, that the law locates the patent on the ground where it
was actually surveyed, notwithstanding the call or reference on the
said patents, or eit her of them, to [for] the mouth of Raccoon creek;
and if they found that the patent of Remey, as surveyed, does not.
interfere with the claim of the demandants, that they ought to finc,
VOL. x.-3 F

SUPREME COURT.
[Ellieott v. Pearl.]

for the demandants ; unless they find that the defendants have had
possession by an actual residence or fence within the patent of the
demandants thirty years or more before the bringing of these [suits].
The court refused to give this instruction, as moved; but gave the
instruction as moved after substituting for the word "feice" the
words "improvements with the intention of taking possession." To
which refusal the demandants excepted.
It is wholly unnecessary for us to consider whether the.instruction,
as given, is maintainable in point of law or not; and the only question is, whether the refusal to give it as prayed for, was incorrect.
But this resolves itself i'nto the point, whether it is absolutely necessary to constitute a possession of land, sufficient to bar an adverse
title thereto under the statute of limitations limiting writs of right
to thirty years, that -there should be an actual residence or fence by
the party claiming the benefit of the statute ; that is, an actual residence on the lapo, or a pedis possessio of it'by an enclosure. The
argument in support of the instruction, as prayed, assumes that there
can be no possession to defeat an adverse title, except in one or other
of these ways; that is, by an actual residence, or an actual enclosure: a doctrine wholly irreconcilable with principle and authority.
Nothing canbe more clear, than that a fence is not indispensable to
constitute possession of a tract of land. The erection of a fence, is
nothing more than an act presumptive of an intention to assert an
.ownership and possession over the property. But there are many
other acts, which are equally evincive of such an intention of asserting such ownership and possession: such as entering upon land and
making improvements thereon; raising a crop of corn; felling and
selling the trees thereon, &c. ; under colour of title.
An entry into possession of a tract of land, under a deed containingspecific metes and bounds, gives a constructive possession of the whole
tract, if not. in any adverse possession ; although there may be no
fence or enclosure round the ambit of the tract, and an actual residence only on a part of it. To constitute actual possession, it is not
necessary that there should be any fence or enclosure of the land.
If authority were necessary for so plain a proposition, it will be found
in the case of Moss v. Scott, 2 Dana's Kent. Rep. 275; where the
court say, tlat " it is well settled that there may be a' possession. in
fact of land fiot actually enclosed by the possessor." But this subject will naturally arise.and be considered more fully under the next
instruction prayed for : and it is only necessary to say, that we per-

TANUARY TERM 1830.
[Ellicott v. Pearl.].

ceive no error in the refusal of the court to give that which was here
prayed for.
The demandants then prayed the court to instruct the jury "that
unless they find that Remey's survey covers the patents under which
the demandants claim, the settlement of M'Carmnon within the two
thousand acres does not give a claim to a possession within the one
thousand acres patent ; nor does the possession within the one
thousand acres patent give any possession' within the two thousand
acres patent. That, as to the two thousand acres, the statute runs
as to that from the time a possession was taken by an actual residence, or by fencing; and the same as to the one thousand acres:
consequently, that if they [the jury] find that one- has been thus
possessed adversely for thirty years next before the bi'inging of this
suit, and the other not; that as to the other not so held, they should
find against such tenants as were within such patents at the date of
the demandants' writ; provided these settlements are not included in,
Remey's or Thompson's surveys, as originally surveyed."
The latter part of this instruction as prayed, is disposedof by the
considerations already suggested under the preceding head. The
other part may require some further explanations, in order to show its
bearing and pressure. The tractof seven thousand acres conveyed by
Edwards to Pearl, included, as has been already stated, both of the
tracts of two thousand acres and one thousand acres claimed by the demandants, within its boundaries. The house and settlemn'ent of Pearl
were on the southern side of the one thousand acres tract ; and the
house and settlement of M'Cammon were witlhin the two thousand
acres tract, a'd near the centre of the eastern line of that tract.
Pearl entered into possession of the seven thousand acres tract under
his deed from Edwards ; and as that deed described the tract by
metes and bounds, Pearl must, upon the principles already stated,
be deemed to have been in possession of the whole tract; unless some
part of it was, which is not sh6wn, in the adverse possession of some
other claimant. In short, his entry be'ing under colour of title by
deed, his possession is deemed to extend to the.bounds of that deed ;
although his actual settlement and improvements were on a small
parcel only of the tract. In such a case, where there is no adverse
possession, the law construes the entry to be co-extensive with" the
grant to the party ; upon the ground that it is his clear intention to
assert such possession. This doctrine is well settled. -It was
affirmed by this court in Barr v. Gratz,'4 Wheat. Rep. 222, 223 ;

SUPREME COURT.[Ellicott v. Pearl.]

and it has been fully recognized and acted upon by the state courts
of Kentucky. Ini Fox v. Hinton, 4 Bibb's Rep. 559, it was held by
the court, that where two patents interfere in part, and before possession is taken under the elder patent, the junior patentee enters
upon the land within the interference with an intention to take possession, he shall be construed to be in possession to the extent of
his claim. In Thomas v. Harrow, I Bibb's Rep. 563, the same
court held that a person entering on land under a deed of conveyance specifying the boundaries, is in possession to the extent thereof;
although the person making the conveyance had only an entry,
which did not appear to cover the land, and which had not been
perfected by survey or patent. The cases of Smith's Heirs v; Lockridge, 3.Littell's Rep. 19, 20; Cates v. Loftus, 4 Monroe's Rep.
442; Moss v. Currie, I Dana's Kent. Rep. 267; Boyce v. Blake, 2
Dana's Kent. Rep. 127; Smith'sHeirs v. Frost's Devisee, 2 Dana's
Kent. Rep. 148, 149; and Harrison v. M'Daniel, 2 Dana's Kent.
Rep. 354, are to the same effect, and contain a full exposition of the
doctrine.
M'Cammon having entered under Pearl, his possession must be
deemed c6nsistent.with the title of Pearl. There is, however, no
proof of the nature or extent of his claim in the case. If he entered
under a deed from Pearl, then his possession would be coextensive
with the boundaries prescribed in that deed. If he entered without
deed, his possession must either be deemed a continuation of that of
Pearl, or bounded by his actual Occupancy. In Jones v. Chiles, 2
Dana's Rep. 28, it was held by the court, that if a landlord settles a
tenant without bounds upon a tract of land, he is in possession to thib
limits of the claim. But if the tenant is restricted by metes and
bounds, to a part only of the land; the landlord's possession is in like
manner limited. And upon the same principles the court held, that
if the proprietor of a tract sells a portion of, it designated by metes
and bounds, and the vendee enters into possession, his entry must be
deemed of his own land, bnly ; and it has no effect as an entry upon
or possession of the rest of the tract.
If with these principles in view we examine the instruction asked
of the court, it will-be found open to miuch objection. It assumes
certain facts as its basis, ,which were not in evidence; or, if in evidence, they were for the decision of the jury. The court were asked
to instruct the jury, " that the settlement of M'Cammon within the
two thousand acres tract, did not give a claim to a possession within

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Ellicott v. Pearl.)

the one thousand acres tract," without ascertaining whether the claim
or title of M'Cammon extended into the latter or not. Now, it is
plain that if his claim or title did extend. into the latter, he would
have had a constructive possession to the extent of that claim or title.
The other part of the instruction asked is extremely vague. It is,
"nor does the possession within the one thousand acres patent
give-any possession within the two thousand acres." It is not said
by whom' the possession is supposed to be, whether by M'Cammon orby Pearl, or by any other person. If the possession intended was that
of Pearl, as both tracts were within his tract of'seven thousand acres;
it is clear that his possession would extend over both tracts, upon the
principles already stated. If the possession intended was that of
M'Cammon, it is open to the objection already stated,that the boundaries of his claim or title are not ascertained, so.as to enable the court
to give the instruction as matter of law. Intruth, the instruction
asked seems to have proceeded upon . a, ground perfectly untenable in
itself; and that is, that as to third persons, who are in under title or
colour of title, their possession is to be bounded and limited by the
nature and extent and origin of the distinct tides of their adversary;
and not by that under which they themselves have entered and
taken possession. For these reasons we are of opinion that the
instruction was properly refused by the court.
The last exception now insisted on,' is in the following instruction,
givn by the court upon the prayer of the tenants. "That if they
[the jury] find, from the evidence, that Remey's patent does not
cover the land in contest, yet if they find, from the evidence, that
the tenants, or any of them, or those claiming under them, have had
possession of the land in contest for thirty years next before the commencement of the demandants' Suit, they must find for the tenants."
It is probable that the actual form in which this instruction was asked,
was occasioned by the agreement of the parties, that all these actions
against the different tenants upon the different writs of right "should
be heard at the same time," without prejudice to the rights of either
party; and that the evidence "should be heard as to all, and to be
applied to each respectively,' and therefore that the instruction
should be construed accordingly, reddendo singula singulis. But we
see no objection to it in the form in which it was actually given,
- under the circumstances of the present case, and the titles set up by
the parties respectively. The demandants claimed adversely to all
the tenants, upon a title independent and distinct from theirs. The

SUPREME COURT.
[Ellicott v. Pearl.]

tenants all'claimed under the title of Pearl, by his-deed of the sever
thousand acres, that is, under a title common to them all. The de.
rhandants- could not recover any tract in controversy, unless they
were seised thereof within thirty years, the period prescribed by the
statute of limitations for writs of right. If, therefore, there had been
thirty years adverse possession of the particular tract in controversy,
by any of the tenants, the demandants had failed in their suit, and
were barred from. any recovery. This was the whole purport of the
instruction given ; and, in our judgment, it was perfectly correct. It
has been.supposed, at the argument, that the instruction was defective in not stating that the' possession was adversary and uninterrupted
during the whole thirty years: and the case of. Forman v. Ambler,
2 Dana's Kent. Rep. 109, 110, is relied on to sustain the objection.
But the. court in that case admitted, that the instruction was free
from legal exception, as understood by the court and the parties.
And whatever ground there might be for the court, in that case, to
come to the conclusion that the jury riaight have been misled by it,
(with which we do not intermeddle), under the peculiar circumstances of the case ; we are of opinion that, under the circumstances
of the present case, the instruction was definite and unambiguous in
its purport and effect, and such as the law justifies.
Upon the whole, the judgment of the circuit court is affirmed with
costs.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the recoed
from the circuit court
the United States for the ditirict of Kentucky, and was argued by counsel; on consideration whereof, it
is ordered and adjudged by. this court, that the judgment of the said
circuit court in this cause be, and the same jshereby affirmed, with
costs.

