16,1"

JANUARY TERM 1836.

WILLIAMt

C.

S. VENTRESS ET AL.,

EXECUTORS

OF. Lovic

VEN-

TRESS, DECEASED, PLAINTIFFS fN ERROR, v. NEAL SMITH, ADIINISTRATOR OF JOHN CLARK, DECEASED.

The power to sue for debts d e to the estate of an intpstate is implied in the authority
given to administrators ad collegendum, issued under the authority of the statute
law of Missikioippi.
47,on. t'uction or the statute of Mississippi pioviding for the substitution of executors
or administrators, when tither party to a suit dies before judgment.
It i incumbtut on .tplaintiff in erro: to make out an alleged error, clearly, and satisfdcterily. F' cry i asonable intendment should be in favor of a judgment of a
court.
The admiuistrator, in Alabama, had sold slaves belonging to the estate of the intestate,
with.ut an ofnler of court, authorizing the sale; and by private sale. By the-Court:
The .tatute otAlabama, (Laws Ala. p. 334,) declares that it shall not be lawful
iu any executor or administrator to dispose of the estate of any testator or intestate
at private sale, except where the same is directed by the will of the testator; but
that, in all cases where it may be necessary to sell the whole, or any part of the
personal estate, application must be made to the orphans' court for an order of sale,
which sale is required to be at public auction, after giving notice thereof as pointed
out by the statute. The sale of these negroes, ,although bona fide and for a valuatle consideration, was not made according to the provisiong of this law. It was a
private sale, and made without any order from the court. The order of sale cxpre.sly excepts the negroes. The salc was then not only without authority, but
in express violation of the provisions of the statute. Such a sale cannot ibe'supported upon any principles of law.
Executors and administrators, in making sales of'property, must comply strictly
with the requisites of all statutory provisions, on the subject; and unless every
scential direction oLthe law is complied with, all Wihose interests arc affected by
the ,uthority to sell are not concluded by the bale, unless, from a long acquiescence,
a foundation is laid for a fair and reasonable presumption, that the requisites of the
law had been complied with. No such presumption can.arise in this case. It is a
ge-neral rule of law, that a sale by a person who has no right to sell, is not valid
against the rightful owner.
Autlhu.ity gien to executors and sdiunistratorb to sell, is a personal trust, and must
be ttrietly pulsued; and if they transcend their authority, in any essential particular,
their aet is void.
It has sometimes been contended, that a bona fide purchase for a valuable, consid(i ation, a d without notice, was equivalent to a purchase in market overt, under the
English law, and bound the property gainst the party whb had right. But we are
not awate thdt this Saxon institution of markets ovurt, which controls and interteres with the application of the conmnon law, has ever been recognised in any of
the Lnit-ed States, or received any judicial sanction. At all events, no local usage
or custom has been shown, applicable to the present case, to take it out of the general principle of the law of sales.
VOL. X.-V

SUPREME COURT.
lVentress etal. v. Sniith.]

IN erroi to the district court of the United States for the dis-"
trict of Mississippi.
John Clark, of the state of Alabama, died in. 1818, owning and
posssessed of certain slaves; and after his decease, administration of his estate was granted to his widow. She afterwards intermarried with John Farrington, and an inventory of the estate
was filed, the slaves being included in the same. On the first
day of November, 1819, Neal Smith, and his co-security for the
administratrix, by an application to the proper court, had the letters of administration revoked, on the ground that the administratrix and her husband were embezzling the estate of John
Clark; and they stated that the 'negroes had been sold. Administration was granted to Neal Smith. The slaves were carried from the state of Alabama to the state of Mississippi, and
were there sold. The county court of Clirk county, in the state
of Alabama, in August, 1819, authorized the administratrix of
John Clark to sell atl the, personal property of the intestate, except the slaves; and it did not appea that any order to sell the
slaves had ever been obtained. Neal Smith, sometime after he
had been appointed administrator of the estate of John Clark,, in
Alabama, procured letters of administration, ad colligendunt,
from the probate court of Wilkinson county, in the state of Mississippi. They were in the following terms:
To all to whonm
" State of Mississippi, Wilkinson county.
these presents shall come, greeting: Know ye, that whereas
John Clark, of Clark county, in the state of Alabama, as it
is said, had, at his decease, personal property within this state,
the administration whereof cannot immediately, be granted,
but which, if speedy care be not taken, maybe lost, destroyed, or diminished; to the end, therefore, that the, same
may be preserved for those who shall appear to have a legal
right or interest therein, we do hereby request and anthorize Neal
Smith to secure and collect the said property, wheresoever the
same may be, in this state or in Wilkinson county, whether it be
goods, chattels, debts, or credits, and to make, or cause to be
made, a true and perfect inventory thereof, and to exhibit the
same, with all convenient speed, together with a reasonable ac-

JANUARY TERM 1836
[Ventress et al. v. Smith.]

count of his collection, in the office of the register of the orphans
court of the county of Wilkinson. Witness, the honorable Thomas I1. Prosser, judge of probates of Wilkinson county.
[No seal of office.]
C. C. WEST, Reg. W. C. P."
Neal Smith, under the authority of the letters of administration ad colligendum, on the 5th day of April, 1822, instituted, in
the district court of the United States for Mississippi, an action
of trover against Lovic Ventress, for the recovery of the slaves
which had belonged to his intestate ; and With the declaration in
trover, a copy of the letters of administration ad colligendum
was iiled. The defendant appeared and pleaded to the suit, and
it was continued to April term 1823, when thb death of the defendant was suggested, the case continued, and a scire facias was
issued to Elizabeth Ventress, his administratrix. The administratrix appeared, by her attorney, at the succeeding October
tern], and the cause was " legally continued" until April term,
1825 ; when the death of the administratrix was suggested, and
the cause again continued. On the 21st day of February, 1827,
a scire facias was issued to William C. S. Ventress and others,
the plaintiffs in error, executors of the last will and testament of
Lovic Ventress, and at January term of the district court, they
appeared, and the case was tried by a jury ; and a verdict was
rendered in favor of the plaintiff, on which judgment was entered by the district court.
On the trial, the defendant offered no evidence
other than a
bill of sale for the slaves, made by James McDonald to Lovic
Ventress, in coxpsideration of $1,900; with proof that the same
was paid at the ti-me of sale, and that it was deemed a fair value
for the slaves.
The plaintiff.s offered in evidence the deposition of 'Neil McNair, and the defendant objected to the admission of a part of
the same.
The court overruled the objection, and the following bill of
exceptions was sealed:
" On the trial of this cause, the -plaintiff
offered in evidence
the deposition of Neti McNair, the answer of which witness to
the 10th cross interrogatory-(10th cross interrogatory : Were
they not sent away, of intrusted to some person to be removed

164

SUPREME COURT.

I Vntresa et al. v. Smithi
and sold, by the administrator or adliinistrat'ix, or other person
al reprepresentative of said John Clark, in the state of Alabama ?
Answer.. )eponent saith that he hath reason to believe, and
doth believe, that the said negroes were removed and sold, not
by th authority Or request of the administratrix or any other
person rcpresenting said estate )-the defendants, by their counsel, objected to as evidence to the jury, on the ground of being
inadmissible from the manner-of its answer, and moved the court
6
to rule it out as inadmissible testim'on y. But the court overruled
the application of the defendant's counsel, and permitted the
said answer to be read to the jury as evidence in the cause."
Upon the submission of the cause to the jury, the plaintiff's
counsel requested the court to charge the jury1. That it must appear in evidence to the jury, that Abigail
Clark was authorized, l)y an order of the court in Alabama, to
sell the slaves, or she could convey no legal title to the defendant.
2. That it must also appear by evidence to the jury, that James
McDonald was authorized, either by a legal purchase or by a
power from the administratrix, to sell the slavesor his conveyance could not divest the estate of Clark of the legal title in his
representatives.
3. That unless both of the above facts appeared, to wit, the
authority of the administratrix to sell, and the authority of Mc.Donald, either by a legal purchase or power of attorney from the
administratrix, that the title to the slaves still remained in the
legal representatives of John Clark, deceased.
4. That if the pliintiffs were entitled to recover, they were
entitled to the value of the hire of the slaves, by way of damages,
from the time the slaves came into the possession of Ventress.
The defendants' counsel also presented the court with the following points in writing, which they requested the court to give
in charge to the jury:
I. That if the jury shall believe, fromn the evidence before
thein, that Abigail Clark became the administratrix of (lie estate
John Clark, deceased, in the state of Alabama, and, as such administratrix, held and possessed the slaves sued for, till her intermarriage with John Farrington, and that said Farrington and
wife, in virtue of the administration of said Abigail, were also

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Ventress et al.v. Smith.]

possessed of the slaves sued for ; and that the possession of these
defendants, or their testator, of the slaves sued for, was acquired
by, through, or from the said Farrington and wife, either directly or indirectly ; then the plaintiff, as administrator to collect the
estate of John Clark, deceased, has no right to recover in this
action against these defendants.
2. Will charge the jury-if they shall believe, from the evidence, that the slaves sued for in this action were, since the
death of said John Clark, held and possessed by Abigail Clark,
his administratrix, in the state of Alabama, and that during her
administration, she intermarried with John Farrington, and that
Farrington and wife possessing said slaves by virtue of the administration of said Abigail, eloigned, wasted, embezzled, sold,
or other-wise converted or disposed of them, in violation of their
duties as administrators of said Clark's estate, by which devastavit of said administrators, the slaves sued for passed to the possession of one James McDonald, who brought them to this state
and sold them for a full and bona fide consideration, to Lovic
Ventress, defendants' testator, who purchased in good faith, and
without notice of such devastavit of said administrator; then the
testator, Lovic Ventress, acquired a good title as against the
plaintiff, and the verdict should be for 'the defendants.
3. Will charge the jury-that if they believe, friom the evidence, the slaves sued for belonged to the estate of John Clark,
de-eeased, at the time of his death, and passed into the possession
of his administrators, in the state of Alabama, who embezzled
and disposed of the same, in disregard of their duties as administrators ; but that defendants' testator, Lovic Ventress, became
an innocent purchaser of said slaves, (in this state,) for a valuable consideration, without notice of the mal-administration of
said Clark's estate in Alabama ; then they should find their verdiet for the defendants.
The court refused to instruct the jury in all or either of the
several points as sought for and requested by the defendants'
counsel, as aforesaid ; but did charga the jury as requested by tlhe
plaintiff, except upon the fourth point ; in whic; the court was of
opinion that hire, as-damages, could be recovered only from the
commencement of the suit.

SUPREME COURT.
[Ventress et at. v. Smith.]

The counsel of the defendants excepted to the opinion of the
court in charging as requested by the counsel for the plaintiff,
and refusing to charge the jury as requested by them, on behalf
of the defendants.
rhe defendants prosecuted this writ of error.
The case was argued by Mr. Jones for the plaintiffs, and by Mr.
Key for the defendant in error.
Mr. Jones, for the plaintiff, maintained1. That the letters ad coll~gendum from the court of probates in
Mississippi vested not in the plaintiff below, but in terms excluded, any title to the possession of, or to maintain any possessory action for the property in question, under the peculiar circumstances and relations of that property and of these parties;
even if a good title were shown in the legal representatives of
Clark in Alabama.
2. That the process of the suit in the record shows a discontinuance and a mis-trial.
3. That the eviden'ce excepted to by defendants in the first
bill of exceptions, and admitted by the court, was inadmissible.
4. That the right of Ventress (defendants' testator) by purchase,
bona fide, for a valuable and full consideration, without any notice of
breach of trust or other fraud in the vendors, who had possession
and the right of possession, clothed with a li 9 title; a purchase
consummated longbefore.the second letters of adininistration grant-ed to the plaintiff in Alabama, and his letters ad colligendum in
Mississippi, and_ whilst the original letters of -administration,
granted to the vendor in Alabama, stood unrevoked and in full
torce; were valid and indefeasible: consequently,that the several-opinions and instructions,-both -those delivered and-those rejected
by the court below, and both- affirmatively and negativelyzdis-title, are erroparaging that-title, and sustaining the-plaintiffs'
neous.
Upon the firstpoint, Mr. Jones cited Stat. Edward 3, ch. 11.
Lord Coke's Commentaries on the Stat. of Edw. 3, 2 Inst. 397,
398, Stat. 4 Edw. 3, 31 Edw. 3,1 Corny. Dig. Adm. E. 13, 2

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Ventress et al. v. Smith.]

Doug. Rep. 545, 1 Hen. Black. 184, 1 Bos. and Pull. 330, 1 Maul
and Selw. 409.
Upon the 4th point, Mr. Jones cited 4 T. Rep. 625, 621, 1
Bos. and Pul. 293, 7 Ves. 152, 8 Ves. 209, Williams on Executors and Administrators 1 vol. 303.
Mr. Key, for the defendant in error, contended, that the testimony objected in the first exception was peoperly admitted.
The instruction prayed for by appellee properly given; and
those asked by appellant properly refused.
He cited 1 Williams on Executors and Administrators 333, 609,
611, Statutes of Mississippi 281, Walker's Rep. 386, Holt's
Nisi Prius Reports 485, 1 Payne's Rep. 400, 2 Wheaton's Rep.
263, Randolph's Rep. 195, 4 Mumford 194, Laws of Alabama
(Toulmin'g Digest) 34, act of 1809.
Mr. Justice THOMiPSON delivered the opinion of tie Court.
This case comes up from the distrittcourt of the districtof
Mississippi, upon a writ nf error. It is an action of detinue, to
recover five negro slaves, of which John Clark, deceased, was
the- owner. The plaintiff, in the court below, prosecuted, as
administrator ad colligendum, under letters of administration
granted by the judge of probate of Wilkinson county, in the state
of Mississippi. The action appears, by the record, to have been.
commenced in the year 1822 against Lovic Ventress.; and after
the cause was at issue, and before trial, Lovie Ventress died,
and a scire facias, tested the first Monday in April 1823, was
issued against Elizabeth Ventress, administratrix, &c., who afterwards appeared in court, and the cause, as is stated upon- the
record, was legally continued-. At a subsequent term of the court,
the cause being-legally continued, as is alleged, the death of the
defendant, Elizabeth Ventress, the administratrix, was suggestes
and admitted to be true ; and thereupon a scire facias was issued
to the present defendants in the court below, as executors of
Lovic Ventress, tested the first. Mondy in October 1826., and
The
due service thereof upon the-defendants Was returned
.record then states that afterwards, in January term 1834, to which
term the cause was regularly continued by consent, the parties

SUPREME COURT.
lVcntress ct a].v. Smith.]

appeared by their attorieys, and the cause was tried,-and a verdiet found for the plaintiff. Upon the trialtwo bills of exceptions
were taken. One in relation to the admissibility of evidence,
and the other upon instructions given .by, the court to the jury
upon the merits of the case ; which will be noticed hereafter.
It will be .necessar~y, in the first place, to dispose of two objections, arising upon the record, which have been raised against
the plaintiff's right to maintain the present action
1.That the letters of administration ad collegenduni, granted
by the court of probates in Mississippi, did not vest in the plaintiff any right or title to the possession of the property in question,
or authorize him to maintain an action to recover it, even if a
good title was shown in the legal representatives of John Clark
in Alabama.
2. That the record shows a discontinuance of the cause, and a
inis-trial.
It may be proper to observe, with respect to the first of these
exceptions, that as it rests upon the disabiliiy of the plaintiff to
bile, it ought to have been pleaded in abatement; but. as we think
the objection untenable, in whatever form it is raised, we shall
proceed to notice it in the manner in which it is now presented.
These letters of administration _recite, that John Clark, of
Clark county, in the state of Alabama, as it is said, had, at his
decease, personal property within this state, the administration
whereof cannot be immediately granted, but which, if speedy
care be not taken, may be lost, destroyed, or diminished ; to the
end, therefore, that the same may be preserved for -those who
shall appear to- have a legal right or interest therein, we do
hereby request and authorize Neal Smith to secure and collect
the said property, wheresoever the same may be in this state, or
in Wilkinson county, whether it be goods, chattels, debts, or
crtdits, and to make a true and perfect inventory thereof,;&c.
These letters of administration were granted under the atithorily of an act of tie legislature of Mississippi,- (Laws of Mississippi, '281,) which empowers the chief justice of the orphans'
court, in the county in which such justice resides, whenever lie
may deem it necessary, to appoint an administrator to collect together the goods of the deceased, for the purpose of depositing

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Ventress et a. v. Smith.]

them in the hands of the chief justice; out of which he shall pay
the debts of the deceased, and be liable, in-law, as other administrators. The argument at the bar is, that the power given to
the administrator, does not authorize him to bring a suit. That
no such power is expressly given, nor is it implied in the power
to collect. The words of the statute are, general, to collect together the goods of the deceased, The power vested in the
magistrate to appoint such administrator, is discretionary whenever he may deem it necessary. And if the words of the act,
Upon any reasonable interpretation, will admit of a construction
which will uphold the authority given by the letters of administration, they ought not to be so construed as to impute to the
magistrate an unauthorized exercise of power. And if we look
to the letters of administration, the power to sue is necessarily
implied in the language there used: "We do hereby authorize
the said Neal Smith to secure and collect the said property,
whether it be goods, chattels, debts, or credits," &c. These
words are amply sufficient to authorize the bringing of suits, if
necessary for the purpose of executing the power, and is certainly
no forced interpretation of the word. collect, as used in the
statute, to consider it as implying the authority to bring suits. In
the case of Irwin and Wright v. Peak, Walker Rep. 386, decided in the supreme court of Mississippi, in the year 1831, it
was held that an administrator ad colligendum, may bring suits.
This power, however, in the view of the court, rested upon astatute referred to in the opinion, but which has not been produced on the argument of this case. But the decision is so recent, and referring expressly to the statute, we think we may
safely rely upon it as an authority to sustain the right to sue, under the power given by the letters of administration in this case.
And we the more readily adopt this conclusion, because we
think the right to sue is necessarily implied in the authority to
collect the goods, chattels, rights, and credits. The grant of the
power carries with it all the usual, ordinary, and necessary means
to effectuate the beneficial exercise of the power.
2. The proceedings, as stated upon the record to continue the
cause, appear to have been in conformity to a statute of that
state, (Mississippi Statutes 238,) which provides that, When any
VOL. X.-W

SUPREME

COURT

(Ventress et al. v. Smith.]

:suit shall be depending in any court, and either of .the parties
shall die before judgment, the executors or adm inistrators of the
deceased, in case the cause of action by law survives, shall have
full power to prosecute or defend such action; and the court
is authorized and required to'render judgment for or against
the executor or administrator, as the case may require ; and a
scire facias is-authorized to be issued to call in the executor or
administrator to make himself a party ; and such was the course
.adopted in the piesent case, as appears from the record. Upon
-the death of Lovic Ventress, a scire facias issued to Elizabeth
Ventress, the administratrix, who appeared and became a party
to the suit, and the cause was continued ; and upon the death of
the- adniinistratrix another scire facias issued, to call in the defendants, the executors of Lovic Ventress, who appeared and
became parties to the suit, which, according to the record, was
-regularly continued, by consent, to the term of the court when
the cause was tried. For what reason or under what circumstances Elizabeth Ventress was appointed administratrix of
Lovic Ventress, when the.defendants were his executors, does
not appear. But the court will not intend that it Was without
authority. Circumstances may readily be supposed to have existed, that would require the appointment of an administration'
*foy some special purpose. Whether she was a general administratrix, or only one with limited powers for some special purpose, does not appear. But when the rdcord states that the
cause was regularly continued, by consent of the present parties,
who were fully competent to give such consent, there can be no
ground upon which this court can now consider the cause discontinued.
3. The next objection arises upon a bill of exceptions taken
at'the trial, relative to, the admission of. evidence..
The plaintiff offered in evidence the-deposition of Neal Mc-.
Nair, and the objection arises upon the answer to the tenth crossinterrogatory, which is as follows: "Were they not sent away,
or-intrusted'to some person to-be removed and -sold by the administrator or administritrix, or other-personal representative of-lohD Clark, in "the State of Alabama ??.-" Answer: "_:Deponeht
saith he has reason to believe, and doth belie ve, that the said ne-

JANUARY TERM 1836.
S[Ventreus ctal. 'v.Smith.]

groes were removed and sold, not by the authority or request of

the administrakix or any other person representing said estate."
This answer was objected to on the part of the defendant, but
admitted-by the court, to be read to the jury. The wliole :depo:
sition is not.set out in the bill of exceptions; and this question and
the answer standing alone, unconnected with the antecedent and
subsequent interrogatories and answers, are in a great meagurC
unintelligible. The very form of the interrogatory, shows the
qjuestion to have bad relation to soie antecedent inquiry, and is
vague and indefinite.." Were they not sent away, or intrusted
to some person (naming no one) to be removed and sold by.
the administrator or adininigtratrix, or other personsal repre•sentative of John Clark ?'!. It seemed to he a fishing inquiry,
that would hardly admit of a direct and positive'answer. Had
t been a direct question to some specific fact, the belief of the
witness would be no legal answer. The belief of a witness is a
conclusion from facts. The witness should. state-facts, and the
conclusion to be drawn from them, rests with the jury. Although
this answer, standinig alone, may not be strictly admissible ; yet,
when connected with other facts of the deposition, it might xAot
not be objectionable. Subsequent inquiries might have drawn
frome the. witness the facts upon which iiis belief was founded
and all being submitted to the jury, thE belief of the witness
might be at least rendered harmless. It does not appear how
,or under what authority this deposition vas taken, or whether
the parties were present or not. If they were, and no objection
was made to the answer, it ought to be considered a waiver; and
the exception not allowed at the trial. It is incumbent on the
plaintiff to make out the error clearly and satisfactorily; every
reasonable intendment should be in favor of the judgment ; and
we 'think the exc.eption too vague to justify a reversal of the
judgment.
4. This second bill of exceptions embraces the merits of the
vase, and turns upon the validity of the purchase of the slaves by
Lovic Ventress in his lifetime. The facts upon which the court
was called upon to instruct the itiry on this question, are briefly
these.
The slaves in controversy, were the property of John Claik,

SUPREME COURT.
[Ventrc.s ct al.v. Smith.

of Alabama, and in his possession at the time of his death, in the
year 1818. This widow, Abigail Clark, was appointed administratrix of his estate, and fn May 1819, intermarried with John
Farrington, and in June 1819, filed an inventory of John Clark's
estate, including therein the slaves in question. On the first of
November of the same year, the letters of administration to her
were revoked, and administration granted to Neal Smith, the
present plaintiff, in the court below. In August, 1819, the county
court of Clark county, in the state of Alabama, authorized Abi.gail Farrington, the administratrix of John Clark, to sell all the
personal propirty of John Clark except the negroes ; and-it does
not appear that any order of sale of the slaves of John Clark had
been obtained. The defendants offered no other evidence oi
title to the slaves, than a bill of sale from James McDonald to
the defendants' testator, in Wilkinson county, in the state of
Mississippi, dated November 2, 1819, for the consideration of
nineteen hundred dollars, which was paid at the time of sale,
and which was deemed a full and fair value of the slaves. Upon
this evidence the plaintiffs' counsel requested the court to charge
the jury1. That it must appear in evidence to the jury, that Abigail
Clark was authorized by an order of the ourt of Alabama, to
sell the- slaves, or she could convey no legal title to them.
2. That it must also appear by evidence to -the jury, that
James McDonald was authorized-, either by a legal purchase or
by a power from the administratrix ; to sell the slaves, or his conveyance could not divest the estate of Clark of the legal title in
his representatives.
*3. That, unless both of the above facts appeared, to wit, the
authority of the adininistratrix to sell, and the authority of MeDonald, either by a legal purchase or power of attorney from
the administratrix, that the title to the slaves still remained in
the legal representatives of John Clark. These instructions the
court gave. A fourth was requested, which the court refused to'
give, and which it is unnecessary here to notice.
The defendants' counsel also requested the court to instruct
the jury uopn certain points, substantially as follows "
1. That 'if they belive, from the evidence, that Abigail Clark

JANUARY TERM 1836.
fVehtresr et al.v. Smith.]

became the administratrix, of John Clai k, deceased, and, as such,
held possession of the slaves in question, and that after her intermarriage with John Farringtdn, she and her husband were in possession of thcrn,.and that the possession of the slaves by the defendants or their testator, was acquired directly or indirectly from
or through Farrington and his wife, then the plaintiff, as administrator to collect the estate of John Clark, has no right to recover
in this action against the defendants.
2. If they believe, from the evidence, that Farrington and his
wife, so possessing the slaves by virtuc of the administration
aforesaid, had wasted, embezzled, sold, or otherwise converted
the slaves, in violation of their duty as administrators, by which
devastavit the slaves passed to the possession of one James
McDonald, who brought them to the state of Mississippi and sold
them to Lovic Ventress, the defendants' testator, for a full and
valuable consideration, and that he purchased them bona fide
without notice of such devastavit, then Lovic Ventress acquired
a good title as against the plaintiff, and the verdict should be for
the defendants.
3. That.if they believed that the slaves belonged to the estate
of John Clark, and passed into the possession of his administrators, who embezzled'and disposed of them in disregard of their
duty as administrators, but the defendants' testator, Lovic Vetress, became an innocent purchaser of the slaves for a valuable
consideration, without notice of the mal-administration of said
Clark's estate in Alabama, then they should find a verdict for
the defendant. These instructions the court refused to give.
It is unnessary to notice separately the several instructions
prayed by the parties, respectively. The general question arising
under them, and one which lies at the foundation of the action,
relates to the sale of the negroes by Abigail Clark, the administratrix of John Clark. The several instructions prayed on the part of
the plaintiff and given by the court, assume that, in order to divest
the plaintiff of the right to recover as the present administrator
of John Clark, it must be shown that his first administratrix had
authority toisell the slaves by an order of the court in Alabama
and that James McDonald was authorized either by purchase
from the administratrix or by authority from her, to sell the slaves,

SUPREME COURT.
[Ventress et al. v.-Smith.l

in order to divest the representatives of Clark of the title, and
take trom the plaintiff the right to recover. The principle assumed in the instructions asked on the part of the defendants, is,
that the administratrix of Clark being it! possession of the slaves,
aind that possession having passed directly'or indirectly to the
defendants, the plaintiff, is administrator ad colligenduin of John
Clark, cannot recover in this action. And that admitting the administratrix had, by her conduct with respect to the slaves, commit•ted a devastavit; yet if the defendants' testator purchased them
bona fide and for a valuable consideration, without notice of such
devastavit, he acquired a good title to the slaves, and the plairtiff had no right to recover. It may be observed here that the
case is entirely silent in the statement of the evidence with respect to notice by the defendants' testator, of the situation of
these slaves. The instruction prayed, however, was subject to
the decision of the jury upon that point; and we assume, in the
consideration of the case, that Lovic Ventress was a bona fide
purchaser without notice, and rest the question entirely upon the
want of authority in the administratrix of Clark to sell the slaves.
It may be observed, in the first place, that the letters of administration to her were revoked before the sale to the defendants'
testator. The revocation was on'the first of November, 1819,
and the bill of sale bea'rs date on the day after. There may be
some mistake, however, in this, and we place no reliance upon it;
as the want of authority in the administratrix is clearly established on other grounds. Thb statute of Alabama, (Laws Ala. p.
334,) declares, that it shall not be lawful for any executor or administrator to dispose of the estate of any testator or intestate at
private sale except where the same is directed by the will of the,
testator; but that inall cases where it may be necessary to sell
the whole or any part of the personal estate, application must be
be made to the orphans' court for an order of sale, which sale is
required to be at public auction, after giving notice thereof as
pointed 'out by the statute. The sale of these negroes, although
bona fide and for a valuable consideration, was not made according.to the provisions of this law. It was a private sale, and made
without any order from the court. The order of sale expressly
excepts the negroes. The sale was -then not only without-ap,

JANUARY TERM, 1836.

175

(Ventress et 0l. v. Smith.]

thority, but in express violation of the provisions of the statute.
Such a sale cannot be supported upon any prin-biples of law. In
the case of the executors of Emos v. James (4 Mum. 194,) it
was held by the court of appeals of Virginia, that the sale of a
slave belonging to the estate of the testator by a person iamed
in the will as one of the executors, but who, at the time of the
sale, had not qualified or given the bond required by a statute pf
that state ; was void againsi the executor who had qualified : although the sale was bona fide and for a valuable consideration.
It was admitted, that if the question was to be decided upon the
principles of the common law, without regaird to the act of assembly, the sale would have been valid, the power of the executor being derived from the will. But he not having qualified
and complied with the statute, by giving the bond required, the
foundation of his authority was done away ; and all his acts were
invalid, and the sale illegal and void. The present is a much
stronger case. The want of authority in the executor to sell in
that caserested upon the construction of the statute ; influenced,
in some measure, by the policy which governed its enactment.
But in the present case, the sale was against the express exception in the 0rder of sale, and in violation of the positive prohibition in the statute to sell at private sale. The law in this class
,of cases is well settled: that executors and administrators, in
making sales of property, must comply strictly with the requisites
of all statutary provisions -on the subject ; and that, unless every
-essential direction of the law is complied with, all whose interests are- affected by the authority to sell are not concluded by the
sale ; (7 Mass. Rep. 488,) unless, from a long acquiescence, a
foundation is-laid for a fair and reasonable presumption, that the
requisites of the law had been complied with. No such presumption can arise in this case. It is a general rule of law, that
a -sale by a person who has no right to sell, is not valid against
the-rightful owner. Authority given to executors and administrators to sell, is a personal trust'and must be strictly pursued ; and
if they transcend their authority in any essential particular, their
act is void. (4 John. Ch. 368, 6 Con. Rep. 387.) It was a maxim of the civil law that, nemo plus juris in alium transfeirepotest, quarn4pse habet ; and this is a plain dictate of common sense.

SUPREME COURT.
(Ventress et al. v. Smith.]

It was also a principle of the English common law that, a salte
out of market overt, did not change the property from the
rightful owner; and the custom of the city of London, which
forms an exception to the general rule, has always been regard.
ed and restricted by the courts with great care and vigilance,
that all such sales should be brought strictly within the custom.
(Com. Dig. Tit. Market E.) It has sometimes been contended)
that a bona fide purchase for a valuable consideration and with.
out notice, was equivalent to a purchase in market overt under
the English law, and bound the property against the party who
had right. (1 John. Rep. 478.) But we are not aware that this
Saxon institution of markets overt, which controls and interferes
with the application of the common law, has ever been recognized in any of the United States, or received any judicial sanction. -At allevents, no local usage or custom has been shown
applicable to the present case, to take it out of the general principles of the law of sales. And although the defendants' testator
was a bona fide purchaser, for a valuable consideration and without notice ; the sale being without authority and against law; he
acquired no title that will bind the property against the party
who has right.
The judgment of the court below must accordingly be affirmed
with costs.
This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the district court of the United States for the district of Mississippi, and was argued by counsel, on consideration whereof, it
is ordered and adjudged by this Court, that the judgment of the
said district court in this cause be, and the same is hereby, afffirmed, with costs and damages, at the rate of six per centum per
annum upon the sum adjudged by the said district court, to the
plaintiff in this court, in case the said plaintiff cannot have the
said 'negro slaves delivered to him.

