JANUARY TERM 1836.

SARAH BOONE AND

OTHERS, APPELLANTS V. NN 1LlsAAM

CHtILES

AND OrHERS, APPELLEES.
Tl he eomplainants filed a bill in the circuit court of Kentucky, claiming a conveyance

of the legal title, and a. account of rents and profits of a tract of land, the legal
title to which was derived, in virtue of the law of Virginia, under a settlement and
a pre-emption right, held by Reuben Searcy. Scarcy gave his bond to Hoy, to
make a deed of one-half of the land to which he was thus entitled; the other half
having been given by him to onL Martin, to obtain the location and patenting. He
afterwards gave the plats aad surveys to Hoy, wvho, in 1785, obtained a patent for
the land, which he was to have a deed for. Hoy, in 1781, assigned' the bond. of
Searcy to George Boone, and made himself surety for its performance; and George
Boone' assigned the bond to Thomas Boone, the ancestor of the complainants.
rhomas Boone lived in the state of Pennsylvania, and was in Kentucky in 1802,
1810, and 1819, in-the neighborhood of the land; but while there he took no measures, personally, to obtain the title or possession of it. In 1787 he gave to George
Boone a power of attorney to obtain a conveyance of the land; and in 1802 he made
a conditional sale of it to Hezekiah Boone; but the condition was not performed by
Hezekie:s Boone; so that under the agreement he obtained no right to the land.
Possession was taken of parts of the land, and improvements made as ea'ly as or

before 1806, and the persons in possession are among the defendants. George
Boone exceeded his powers, awl made agreements to sell the land; and also agreed
to give up to one of the heirs of Hoy, Searcy's bond; and some of the heirs sold parts
of'the land -to the pcrs.os in possession, asserting a right to the legal title: and
.another of the'heirs sold by a quit-claim deed all her rights, as one of the heirs of
.Hey, to Green Clay. Afterwards William Chiles, alleging that he had obtained
from George Boone, and from Hezekiah Boone, the conditional purchaser, the
equitable right of Thomas Boone, under Searcy's bond; filed in the name of Thomas, George, and Ilezekiah Boone, and in his own name, in the county court of
-Bourbon county, a bill againt the heirs of Hey, the persons in possession, and
against Green Clay, alleging him to be a purchaser ivith notice of Thomas Boone's
equitable title, under Searcy and Hoy:. and obtained from that court a decree for a
CGonveyance to him-of the legal title, and afterwards a deed for the same from a commissioner appointed to execute the same. This decree was afterwards, on appeal,
eversed for informality; but before the same was reversed, the complainants filed
-thisbill, asking for a conveyance from Chiles of-all the title he held in the land,'
either under 4he decree, or in any other manner.- Chiles, after the bill was filed,
purchased from Green Clay the rights he held ; and, in his answer, alleges him to.
have been an innocent purchaser, without notice. The persons in possession, who
,purchased from Chiles, after the decree of the Bourbon court, answered, asserting
their possession, and that they were -protected by the statute of limitation ; and
vubmit to such rules and regulations, according to law and equity, as the case may
require. In 1822, Thomas Boone made an agreement v ith Boone Engles, by
which the latter took upon him the institution and conducting. or this suit, for a
portion of the benetit to be derived from it; and this the persons. in possession
Yot, X,.-X

SUPREME' COURT
allege to be champerty. The court decreed a conveyance-by Chiles, and by other,
who held the legal title, to be made to the complainants, of. all the lands unsold,
and not-in the possession of others; and that those who are in possession, who had
purchased from Chiles, shoiuld pay to the complainants the sums which they agreed
to pay, respectively, with interest, according to their respective contracts.
A court of equity must be regardless of all its rules, before it can recognise Chiles as
a purchaser, or as having any right whate er in the land : it must also forfeit itb
character, if it sanctions such a course of iniquitous fraud. We deem it wholly
useless to contrast the relative equities cf the plaintiffs and Chiles,, in order to affirm
their right to a decree for the conveyance of the legal title, obtained in violation of
every principle which governs courts of equity ; unless he has made out some objections to the relief prayed, on grounds unconnected with the justice of the case.
The heirs of Searcy are not parties: they had no interest in the land ; their father':.
bond was 'satisfied by the performance of the condition, when the patents were obtained by Hoy ; who, by purchase from Martin and Searcy, held the legal title to
the whole fourteen hundred acres, subject to be divcited only by the equity of
Boone, derived by this agreement to transfer the one-half No act, therefore, remained to be performed by the heirs of Searcy. The title of Boone becomes complete, by the union of his equitable with Hoy's legal title, without any interpositiorn
of the heirs of Searcy, who have no interest to defend, or title to convey.
The lapse of time and the staleness-of the plaintiffs' equity, is also set up as a bar to
a decree in their favor : but whatever effect time may have in equity in favor of a
possesion long and peaceably held; it can have'none in favor of Chiles, whose only
claim is under the equity of Thomna§ Boone, and against whom the present suit
was brought in six years e~t'er he first interfered with it. It cannot be permittect
to him to acquire the legal-title of Hoy, in virtuc of Boone's equity, and to hold it
to his own use; on the ground that Boone's right had become extinct by the lapse
of time, before he acquired it. The means by which the legal title has been conveyed to Chiles, have affected his conscience too deeply with fraud, for a court of
equity to suffer him to enjoy its fruits. As to him, the plaintiffs have established a
right to a decree for the conveyance of whatever title he may have deriyed by any
conveyance to himself directly, of the legal right of Hoy's heirs.
By the rules of an appellate court,-it can act on no evidence which was not before the
court below, or receive any paper that was not used at the hearing.
A. party is not allowed to state one case in a, bill or answer, and make out a different
one by proof: the allegata and 1:robata must agree; the latter must support the
former.
A purchaser with notice may protect himself under a purchaser by deed without iWtice; but cannot do it by purchase from one who holds or claims by contra&t only.
The cases are wholly distinct. In the former, the purchaser with notice. is protected; in the latter, he has no standing in equity, for an obvious. reason; that the
plaintiffs' elder equity shall prevail, unless the delfndant can shelter himself under
the legal title acquired by one whose conscience was not affected with fraud. or notice, and who can impart his immunity to a guilty purchaser, as the representative
of his legal rights fairly acquired by deed, in such amanner as exempts him from
the jurisdiction of a court of equity. Such a purchase affixes no stain on the conscience, and equity cannot disturb the legal title. But as it does not pass by a contract of purchase without deed,. the defendant can acquire only an equity; the transfer of which does not absolve him from the consequences of his first fraudulent
purchase. His second purchase of an equity will not avail him more than the first i

JANUARY TERM 1836.

179

for the original notice of the plaintiff's equity taints his conscience, so as to make
him a mere trustee, if lie holds the legal title. from one who is not an innocent, bona
fide purchaser.
It is a general principle in' courts of equity, that, where both parties claim by an equitable title, the one who is prior in time is deemed the better in right; and that where
the equities are equal in point of merit, the law prevails.
Strong as a plaintiffs equity may be, it can in no case be stronger than that of a purchaser, who has put himself.in peril by purchasing a title, and paying a valuable
consideration, without notice of any defect in it: and when, in addition, he shows
a legal title from one seised and possessed of th.e property purchased, he has a right
to demand protection and relief, which a court of equity imparts libqrally. Such
suitors are its most especial favorites. It will not inquire how he may have obtained a statute, mortgage, encumbrance, or even a satisfied legal term, by which
he can defend himself at law, if.outstanding: equity will not aid his adversary in
taking from him the tabula in nofragio, if acquired before 'a decree. Relief will
not be granted against him in favor of the widow or orphan.: nor shall the heir see
tile title-papers. It is a bar to a bill to perpetuate testimony, or for discovery ; and
.goes to the jurisdiction of the court over him: his conscience being clear, any adversary must be left to his remedy at law.
_
But this will not he done on mere averment, or allegation; the protection of such bona
fide purchase, is necessary only when the plaintiff has a prior equity; which can
be barred or avoided only by the union of the legal title with an equity, arising from
the payment of tle money, and receiving the conveyance without notice, and a clear
conscience.
In setting it up, a bona fide purchase without notice, by plea or answer, it muit state
the deed of purchase, the date; parties, and contents briefly ; that the vendor wap
seized in fee, and in possession: the-consideration must be stated, with a distinct
averment that it was bona fide and truly paid, independently .of the recital in the
deed. Notice must be denied previous to, and down to the time of paying the
muney, and the delivery of the deed; and if notice is specially.charged, the denial
must be of all circumstances referred to, from which notice can be inferred ; and the
answer or plea must show how the grantor acquired title. The title purchased must
be, apparently, perfect, good at law, a vested estate in fee simple. It must be a regul'r.conveyance; for the purchaser of an equitable title holds it subject to the equities -upon it in the hands of the vendor, and has no better standing in a court of
equity. Such is the case which must be stated to give the defendant the benefit of
an answer or plea of an innocent purchase without notice; the case stated must be
made out; evidence will not be permitted to be given of any other matter not set out.
The objections to the plaintiffs' recovery on the ground of the contract between Thomas Boone and Bo6n Engles being within the statutes of champerty and maintenance, cannot be sustained for two reasons: 1. The English statutes on this subject, which were adopted in Kentucky, punished the offence and declared the contract for maintenance void between the parties, but did not direct or authorize.the
dismissal of the suit instituted between other partiesin furtherance of such contract.
Boon Engles is no party to this suit; and it does not concern the defendants whether
it was commenced and is conducted by his agency, or by the plaintiffs themselves:
the right of plaintiffs is not forfeited by such ali agreement, and it may be asserted
against the defejidants whether the contract with Boon Engles is valid or void. 2. By
the act of Kentucky of 1798, which was in force when this contract was made, and
suit brought; no person could be prevented from prosecuting or defending any claim

SUPREME COURT
to land aeld under the land laws of Virginia ; nor was any suit brought to make
good such claim considered as cooming within the provisions of the common law,
or any statute against chaniperty or maintenance. These statuteswere not revived,
till 18.
The time does not bar a direct trust as between trustees and cestui que trust, till it is
disavowed : yet, where a constructive trust is made out in equity, time protects the
trustee, though his conduct was originally fraudulent, and his purchase would have
been repudiated for fraud. So, where a party takes possession ini his own right,
ald was prima tacie the owner, and is turned into a trustee by matter of evidence
merely. And where one intending to purchase the entire interest in the land, took
a conveyance without words of limitation to his heirs, passing only as an estate for
life, the lapse of fburteen years atelr the expiration of the life estate, was a protection to the heirs of the purchaser.
What that reasonable titie is, within which a constructive trust call fleenorced, dopends on the circumstances of the case; but there can tie few cases where it ban be
done, after twenty years' peaceable possession, by the st~rson who claims in his own
right, but whose acts have made him a trustee by implication. His possession
entitles him to at least the same protection as that of a direct trustee, who, to the
plaintiffs' knowledge, disavows the trust, and holds adversely ; as to whonmithe time
runs from the disavowal, beciusc his possession is thenceforth adverse. The possession of land is notice of a claim to it by the possessor; if not taken and held by
contract or purchase, it is, from its inception, adverse to all the world; and in twenty
years; bars the owners in law and in equity. A purchaser in possession by a contract to sell, is in law a trespasser; but in equity, lie is the owner of the estate, having taken possession under the contract; and the vendor is in the situation of ali
equitable mortgagor. If the entry was by purchase, and the purchaser claims the
land in fee, lie is not a trustee.; his title, though derivative, from, and consistent
with, the original title of the plaintiffs, is a present claim in exclusion of, and, adverse to it. A vendee in fee, derives his title from the vendor ; but his title, though
derivative, is adverse to that of the vendor: he enters and holds for himself. Such
was the doctrine of this court in Blight's lessee v. Rochester, 4 Pet. 506, 7. In that
" The vendee acquires the property for himself, and his faith is
case the court said,
not pledged to maintain the title ofthe vendor."
Equity makes the vendor without decd, a trustee to tihe vendee, for the conveyance of
the title ; the vendee is a trustee for the paynett of the purchase money, and the
performance of the terms of the purchtse. But a vendee is in no case a truslee of the
vendor, as to the possessiol of the property sold ; the vendee claimns and'hiolds it in his
own right, for his owni benefit, subject to no right ofthe vendor, save the terms which
the contract imposes ; his possession is, theretbre, adverse as to the property, but
friendly as to the plerforiiiance ofthe conhil ions of the purihias.

APPEAL frotn the circuit court of the United States for the

district of Kentucky.
The principal facts of this case were the following: Reuben
Searcy being entitled to a settlement of four hundred acres of
land, and a pre-emption of one thousand acres, in Bourbon
county, Kentucky, tnder the laws of Virginia ; obtained a cer-

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Boone v. Chiles.]

tificate thereof from the commissioners, and he employed one
John Martin to perfect the title to the lands, and gave him onehalf of the same for so doing. On the 24th September 1781,
Searcy sold seven hundred acres, supposed to be one-half of the
land, to William Hoy, and executed a bond ta Hoy' The bond
was in the following words:
"Know all men by these presents, that 1, Reuben Searcy, of
the county of Fayette, am held and firmly bound unto William
Hoy, of the county of Lincoln, and state of Virginia, in the penal
sum of fifty thousand pounds, current money of Virginia, to which
payment, well and truly to be made, I bind myself, my heirs,
executors, and administrators, unto the said William Hoy,'he,
his heirs, oi assigns, this 24th day of September 1781.
The
condition of the above is such, that if the above-bound Reuben
Searcy shaliwell and truly make, or cause to be made, as soon
as deeds are made to lands in this county in general, a good and
sufficient deed for seven. hundred acres of first-rate land,lying
in Fayette county, on Licking creek, betwcen John Martin's
station: and.Ruddle's station ; it being part of a.settlement and
pre-emption, thatJohn Martin cleared out on the halves for.said
Reuben Searcy ; and the said Hoy takes his first choice of the
land; then the above obligation.to be void ;-otherwise to remain
and be in full force and virtue."
On-the 15th of December 1781 William [Toy made the following assignment to George Boone of this bond, by an endorsement thereon :
1, William Iloy, assign over the within bond Untb George
Boone, his heirs,-or assigns ; and said loy obliges himself, his
heirs, executors, and administrators, as shoLrely to within bond;
and if the within lands cannot be obtained by reason of a prior
claim, then, and in that case, seven hundred actes, equl1 in
quality and convenience, shall discharge the within bond."
Searcy also assigned the plats and certificates of survey to Hoy,
who was thus enabled, in, July 1785, to complete the title, by
obtaining patents for the land in his own name. On the 30th of
April 1785, George Boone made the following assignment of the
bond to Thomas Boone, the ancestor of the appellants, who are
his heirs *

SUPREME COURT.
[Boone v. Chiles.]

"I do hereby assign over all my right, title, and claim of the
within bond unto Thomas Boone, heirs, or assigns, without
recourse to' the same; that is to say, that I, the said George
Boone, am no ways* obligated, if the -said William Hoy, or his
heirs, sufficient to make good the within bond ; but if the said
William Hoy, or his heii's, should not be good, then I, George
Boone, do bind myself, my heirs, to make good the same unto
the said Thomas Boone, or his heirs or assigns."
On the 25th day of January 1823, Thomas Boone filed .a bill,
in the circuit court of the United States for the district of Kentucky, stating his equitable righlt, thus derived, to seven hundred
acres of land, part of the settlement and pre-emption of Searcy,
alleging that he had never parted with the same ; but admitting
that he made a conditional contract with Hezekiah Boone for it,
which was never complied with by'said Hezekiah, and was afterwards expressly abandoned by him.
On the 1st of'October 1787, Thomas Boone, who resided in
the state of Pennsylvania, gave to George Boone a. power of
attorney, in the following terms:
"Know all men by these presents, that I, Thomas Boone, of
Oly township, in the county of Berks, and commonwealth of
Pennsylvania, blacksmith, for divers good causes, me hereunto
moving, hath constituted and appointed, and by these presents
do constitute and appoint my trusty friend, George Boone, of
Madison county, in the settlement af Kentucky, and commonwealth
of Virginia, yeoman, my true and lawfil attgrney, for me and in
my name, and to my use, to ask, demand, sue for and recover of
and from Major William Hoy, of Kentucky settleme-nt, a deed or
other lawful conveyance, valid in.law, for seven hundred acres
of land, in or near the watersof Hinkson and Stoner, branches
of Licking !iver ; it being one-half or moiety of a settlement and
pre-'emption, right, belongilig to a certain Reuben Searcy, and
which I purchased friom squire Boone, who purchased the same
from said George Boone, who purchased the same from said
William Hoy, hereby giving and granting my sole power and
authority to my said attorney concerning the premises, to do or
cause to be done therein, as amply as 1 myself imight or could.do
were I persomally present; and on the obtaining said title and

JANUARYTERM 1836.
[Boone v. Chilee.]

conveyance for me, and in my name, sufficient discharges to sign,
seal, and deliver, and one or more attorney or attorneys tnder
him, to substitute and appoint, and at pleasure to revoke, hereby
ratifying and confirming whatsoever my said attorney shall lawfully do concerning the premises. Inivitness whereof, I have
hereunto set my hand and seal, this 1st day of October 1787."
->The bill charges that William Chiles instituted a suit in the
Bourbon circuit court of Kentucky, without the knowledge or
consent of Thomas Boone, in the name of Thomas Boone, William Chiles, Hezekiah and George Boone, against the heirs of
William Hoy, and against others in possession of the land, to
compel the execution of a conveyance of'the seven hundred acres
of land: that in the suit, Chiles, alleging the .execution of the
bond by Searcy, and the assignmehts before stated, pretended
that, under the conditional contract between Thomas and Hezekiah Boone, the latter had becone entitled to the land, and
that he had purchased it-from said Hezekiah. In the suit, a decree was pi'notnccd for a conveyarce to he made to Chiles;
and on the 7th day of January 1822, a commissioner, appointed
by the court,. according to the lawp.of Kentucky, executed a
conveyance to Chiles for seven hundred acres of the land, in
conformity with the decree.
In the proceedings in the Bourbon court, William Chiles made
Green Clay a defendant, alleging him to be a purchaser from
Necwland and wife, of two-eighths of the land, he having notice
of Thomas Boones rights. The wife of Newland was one of
[oy's heirs. After the decree, he purchased from Green Clay
all he held under Newland and wife ' and, inthis case, he relics
on the title obtained under that purchase.
Hezekiah Boone, by his answer, asserts a right to the land
under the conditional contractbut no proof of a compliance with
the same was given in the cause; and it was in evidence that,
long after the contract, he acknowledged he had no right to the
land, and that it belonged to Thomas Boone.
Some of the defendants, in the circuit court, allege that George
Boone, as attorney in fact for Thomas Boone, in August 1792,'
assigned Searcy's bond to a certain John South, and delivered
the bond to him. John South was-the executor of William lioy,

SUPREME COURT.
[Boone v. Chiles.]

and had married one of his daughters ; and South sold, to some
of the defendants, parts of the land, under a pretence that he
held Hoy's claim : andthey insist that the assignment of Searcy's
bond shall enure to their benefit.
It was in evidence that William Chiles, after the death of
John South, applied to Benjamin South, who had the custody of
Searcy's bond, and by an arrangement with him, the assignment
to John South was erased and cancelled, and the bond was transferred to Chiles. This was prior to the institution of the suit in
the Bourbon county court, and the bond was filed among the
proceedings in the cause.
The defendants also set up, by way of defence, that ain agreement in writing, of which a copy is filed, was made between Thomas Boone and Boon Engles, in December 1822, by which Engles
undertook, at his own expense, ro prosecute a suit for the 700 acres
of land in dispute ; and, as a consideration for his trouble, & -. ,
was to have one-half of the land. This suit, they allege-, is proseculed under that agreenent; and they charge that oit is,.thetefore, a case of champierty and maintenakice, forbidden by law
and in which the court can give no relief. The complainants
rely, that at the time of the agreement, the law of champert-y and
maintenance was not in force in Kentucky ; and that,. if it was,
this case does not fall widiin its scope.
During the pendency of this.suit, in the circuit court of Kentucky, the defendants, in the suit in the Bourbon circuit court,
instituted, ps aforesaid, in the name of Chiles and the Boones,
prosecuted a writ of error Irom the court of appeals of Kentucky,
to reverse thtc d'ecree, obtaihed.in -that suit. And the court of
appeals accordingly did reverse the decree for Avant of proper
parties; arrd remandedthe cause to the Bourbon circuit court for
fu'rther proceedings, The cause is still pending there ; Chiles
and th hieirs ofUTto-asBoone respectively claiming a right- to
direct its future prosecution.
By anenred pleadings, the complainants allege the reversal
of -the decree of the Bourbon county court; and"-ihe heirs of
George Boon'e were made defendants, . They also allege that the.
heirs of G&orge Boon assert no claim to' the land ;-and that Searcy
is -dead. -having left no heirs known to the complainants.

JANUARY TERM. 1836.
[Bootie v. Chiles.]

During the. proceedings ia the circuit court, and in this situation of the same, a question of jurisdiction arose.; and the judges
being divided in opinion, .the cause was adjourned, according to
law, to the supreme court, with the following statement of the
points respecting which the judges were divided in opinion:
1. " The court being the-n divided, and the judges opposed. in
opinion as to the jurisdiction over the case; and, unable, therefore, to render a decree on the merits, they resolve to adjourn that
question to the supreme court, to wit, under all circumstances,
appearing as above, can this court entertaincognizance of the.case ?
2. The judges were also opposed in opinion on the point whether
the complainants were entitled to a decree in the absence of any
proof that the persons made defendants in the amended bill, as
heirs of George Boone, were in fact his heirs ?1"
The cause came on, upon this adjournment of it, before the
supreme court, at the January term, 1834 ; and this court, in its
mandate to the Kentucky circuit court, certifies its opinion on
the questions submitted to it as follows : " The court is' of opinion, 1. That, under the circumstances stated in the certificate of
the judges, the said circuit court could entertain cognizance of
the case. 2. That the want of proof that the persons made defendants in the amended bill, as the heirs of George Boone, were,
in fact, his heirs, is no obstruction to a decree on the merits of
the cause."
It appears on the record that William Chiles, besides the conveyance executed to him by the commissioner appointed by the
Bourbon circuit court, of the -interest of all the heirs of Hoy ; obtained a special conveyance, prior to the institution of the Buorbon suit, from William Hoy the son, and his wife, and John Sappington and Parthenia, his wife; who were two of the heirs of
William Hoy the obligor. And in Chiles's bill filed in the circuit
court of Bourbon; he charges G. Clay to have obtained the interest of Newland and wife, as one of the heii's of W. Hoy, with
full notice of his (Chiles's) claim ; in other wordsiwith full notice
of the claim of Thomas Boone's heirs: and that he G. Clay, upon
zeceiving a conveyance from them, bound himself by special contract to make good all the contracts of their ancestor.
Green Clay filed his answer to the bill of Chiles- and others,
VOL. X.-Y

SUPREME-COURT.
..[Boone v. Chiles.]

in (le Bourbon circuit- court ; in which answer h6 does not'alfege
that he has obtained the legal title from Newland and wife ; he
does not allege that he has obtained any title from them, but refers
to a contract by which he acquired their interest, and, without
producing it, refers to it as being of record.
The heirs of John South, of George Boone, and -of Hezekiah
Boone, were made defendants, and most of them answered : but
the complainants allege they are onlyformal parties.
.One object of the suit is to annul the contract betwen'Hezekiah Boone and Thomas Boone ; but the main purpose of it is to
obtain the legal title to and possession of the 700 acres of land
in.contest, which is vested in IV. Chiles and the heirs of W.
Hoy, and which Chiles, as is alieged,* fraudulently acquired;
first, by possessing himself 'of the bond of R. Searcy, the proper
ty of Thomas Boone; and, secondly, by proseeuting the suit in
chancery in the Bourbon circuit court, in- the name of Thomas
Boone and others; and, lastly, by obtaining from two of the heirs
.of Hoy, and froh Green Clay, 'conveyances.
Upon the retu'rr of the cause to the circuit court, in May 1834,
that court pronounced a final .decree, by which the defendant,
Chiles, was decreed, bydeed of release, with special warranty,
to 'convey to the complainant all his title and interest in the land
in controversy, except- that which he held under a- deed friom
Green Clay, who the court state, was a purchaser for a valuable
-consideration*from Newland and Wife, (she'being one of the heirs
or devisees of W. Hoyr, in whom the legal title was;) and who
conveyed to Chiles the title which he (Clay) had so acquired.
The court also decreed that Chiles should deliver to the clerk of
the court, to be cancelled, the contract between him and Hezekiah Boone and George Boone, as attoineys in fact for Thomas
Boone, as it appeared to the court that the contract was made
without authority, and that its terms had never been complied
with by Hezekiah Boone. The court further decreed (hav'ing
previously caused an adjustment -to be made of one-half of the
rents and profits of the land, and one-half 6f the value of-the improvements,) the tenants in possession to pay the several balances
which appeared to be due from them. As to so much of the land
as was claimed by John Evalt, one of the defendants, within the

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Boone v. Chiles.]

bounds of Flournoy's patent, and which is described in the decree ; the court dismised the bill, as Evalt, and those under whom
he claims, had more than twenty years adverse possession. The
court further decreed that the claim of the complainants is not to be
prejudiced by the decree in. this cause, as to any of the heirs of
Hoy, who are not parties to the suit. The court likewise de-'
creed that Jones Hoy, and Fanny, by her guardian ad litem, do
convey all their interest, &c. in the land, as heirs or devisees of
William Hoy. And, finally, the court directed the clerk, as corn-missioner, to convey, in default of conveyances being made by.
the defendants, according to the statute.of Kentucky; and possession to be delivered by a fixed day....
From this decree both parties appealed, and entered into the
,requisite bonds for the due prosecution of their respective appeals.
The case was argued at January term 1835, by Mr. Clay, for
the appellants, and by Mr. Harding, for the appellees; and the
court, after advisement, ordered a re-argument. Is was now,
again, argued by Mr. Clay and Mr. Crittenden, for the appellants, by Mr. Underwood, for William Chiles,' and by Mr. Hardin, for the other defendants.
Beforethe argument was commenced, Mr. Underwood stated
that be was desirous to submit a preliminary question, which
was,'whether a certain deed from John Newland and wife to
Green Clay, a certified copy of which would be filed among the
records of the court, would be admitted as part- of the proceedings of the case in the circuit court ? If thiswas refused, he
would move for a certiorari to the circuit court, in opder to bring
tip the same.
Mr. Clay stated that the deed had not been exhibited in the
circuit court, on the hearing of the case. The final decree of the
,circuit court, from which this appeal was prosecuted, was returned
at May term 1834. The paper now offered purports to be a
copy of a deed which the clerk of the circuit court, on,the 3d day
of June 1835, cert'fies was produced to the court by the counsel
of the defendants ; who "suggested that the same deed was on
f le." and "used on the hearing of the cause ;" and that on the said

SUPREME COURT.
[Boone v. Ohdes.,

3d day of June 1835, was, by the court, ordered to be copied
and certified to the supreme court.
He was willing that the copy of the deed should be considered
as if the deed were before the court on a return to a certiorari.
As he denied that the deed had been used in the :circuit court,
he would not admit its use in this court ; nor did the certificate
of the clerk show that the deed had been before the circuit court,
on the hearing of the cause.
It was agreed by the counsel, that the copy of the deed should
be considered as if it had been sent up from the circuit court on a
certiorari.
Mr. Clay, for the appellants, said that it would be contended
the decree of the circuit court was erroneous1. In decreeing in behalf of William Chiles, upon the conveyance of Green Clay to him of the interest of Newland land his
wife, who was one of the heirs of William Hoy. Neither Green
Clay, in his answer to the bill in the Bourbon court, nor Chiles,
as his alienee, in his answer in the federal court, makes those
allegations which entitle Clay or. Chiles, to the protection -accorded to them, of a bona fide purchaser without notice. There
is no allegation or proof as to what sum was paid, or when or -how
it was paid, by Clay to Newland and -wife. He does not deny
the allegation of the bill, that he (Clay) purchased under a stipulation to make good the contract of the ancestor of Newland and
wife, William Hoy. He does not exhibit any legal title whatever, (and none isbelieved to exist,) from Newland and wife to
him. And there is muchreason to believe that his own quit claim
title to Chiles, was made to avoid the suit which Chiles wasprosecuting against him in virtue of the title-papers of Thomas
Boone. A purchaser, to be protected, must show that he has
paid a fair consideration, and what it was ; and obtained the legal
title, before he had notice of the equity. Clay and Chiles have
utterly lailed to establish these indispensable requisites: and
Chiles himself, in the Bourbon bill, charged Clay to be a mala
fide purchaser.
2. Tho court below ered in dismissing the bill as to Evalt,
and ought to-have decreed against him.
3. That the. court is also believed to have erred in limiting the
-

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Boone v. Chiles.]

decree to one-half the amount of the rents and profits. It ought
to have decreed to, the complainants the whole amount of the
rents and profits upon the land in contest ; or at least a greater
proportion thereof than th'at of one-half.
He would examine the case1. As it respects the heirs of William Hoy.
2. As to the rights and duties of William Chiles.
3. As it respects the rights and claims of the tenants in possession.
•This is the common case of an application to chancery, to oblige
the holder of the legal title to convey to the holder of a superior
,equitabletitle.
,As to Hoy's'heirs, the only ground set up for them is the length
of time, since the execution of the bond and the transfer of the
same. No one of the parties can present, or did offer a solid
objection to the title.
In considering this objection, it will be proper for the court to
look at the terms of Searcy's bond, and to those of the assignment. It is not an agreement to make a conveyance at once ;
but " as soon as deeds were made for lands' in the country in
general."
In estimating time on an instrument, it is proper to look to
,the condition for the period and circumstances in which its obligation is to be performed. In this case the provision is important, for the state of the country, and ,the difficulties of conflicting
titles created great delays. The deed was to be made after all
these difficulties should cease. There is, therefore, in the bond,
no definite time for the execution of the contract it contain&.
But the obligor disqualified himself from executing the contract
in the-bond ; for he assigned the evidences of title, and the deed
was to be made when Martin had perfected the rights of Searcy.
William Hoy died shortly afterwards, within four or five years,
leaving infant heirs; some of whom did not arrive at age until
1809. This suit was commenced fourteen. years afterwards.
There is evidence on the record to show that the infancy of
Hoy's heirs was the cause of the delay. The evidence proves
that South, the executor of William Hoy, postponed the delivery'
of the title. It is also contended that the obligor was bound to

SUPREME COURT.
[Boone v. Chilcs.]

give notice; when he was ready to make the title.: He may be hastened- b.'the obligor z but if thetime wfts vague and indefinite,
and depending, as in this .case, on, circumstances which he only,
or he best knew ;-he shall not avail himself of the lapse of time,
unless he gives notice.
As the patents issued to another, he should'have given notice;
and as to the interfering claims within the survey,there are suits
to this day; non-residence--appliation for. titl6-infanc---the
acts of"South ;all these show that if the dispute was with Hoy's
heirs only ,this, court could, ,without hesitation, give the relief
asked- by the appellants. ' But -others are-inferested in the controversy, who claim under a title.derived from some of the heirs
of Hoy. The answers of Hoy'sheirs show, that they themselves
make no claim'; and the-appellants are resisted by s.trangers, claim ing for them.
2. As to the condition of William Chiles, and on the question
Whether there is any thing in his situation,'which can authorize
•him to resist the claims of the appellants:
He claims under the ancestor of th appellants, and under proceedings founded'on his right. He was.not in possession, and
never was in possession: and lie instituted the proceedings in
the Bourbon county court, obtained a legal title, fraudulently'; and
he now refuses to give up that title to the appellants.
A very important question is presented under the cdmmissioner's deed. A fraudulently procures, by proceedings in the right
of B, a title to be made.to hinifounded on that right, and obtains
a conveyance in his own name. By.tie laws of Kentucky, no
title can be derived but by deed or last will. A deed under the
decree of. a court is notthe end of a suit, but it is the means to
obtain a title. At the 'time wyhen, by the detree of the" Bourbon
court, Chiles obtained the conveyance, the proceedings of.th
appellants in the circuit court. of the United States were instituted. The decree of the Bourbon -court was afterwards reversed,
and the question is, whether proceedings of another court -subsequent to the institution oT this suit, and when Chiles held a
title mider the decree of that court, could affect, or in any man'ner impair or alter the jurisdiction of this court over the case as
it stood, when the proceedings were commenced ? The proceed-

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Bootle v. -hiles

I

ings of the inferior court need not be looked into. The title
under the decree remains in Chiles, and will sD remain until divested by a deed or last will. , It can thus be regarded by this
court; and a conveyance of his title, under the order of ihe court,
will give d title to the complainants. This 'view of the case is
-sustained by analogies in the law. Sales of personal property
under the decree of a court, afterwards reversed, are valid ; and
even. a purchase made by a conplainaiit under a decree in his
own case, sinbsequently rovoked, will stand. Whatever is done
by a competet court, -while its deci'ees are in fbrce, is binding
on the whole world. The court may, in its discretion, order differently. The Bourbon court did not know the fraud'of Chiles
on the complainants. It had no application b'efore them for a
reconveyance, on which an order for the same could be made.
But if, by any proceedings subsequent to the conv'eyance to
Chiles, under the decree of the Bourbon court,-the operation of
the same has been impaired or affected; yet this court should
order that all the title held by Chiles should.be conveyed to the
complainants.
It is contended by him that, independent 'of the right which
Chiles derived under the proceedings of the Bourbon, court, he
has one-eighth part of the land purchased froni Newland and
wife by Green Clay, and conveyed by him to Chiles. The wife
of Newland was one of the children of William Hoy.
The conveyance of Newland and wife to Green Clay was only
by a quit claim deed; and there is no evidence of his having paid
any thing for it. Chiles, in the proceedings in the Bourbon court
makes Green Clay a defendant, and charges him as a purchaser with
notice. Neither Clay or Newland assert that a deed was made,
but only a-contract. No possession was delivered, and no money
was paid. Newland and wife, say they never conveyed a title
by deed'to Clay.
For the first time, a deed to Clay is produced as if sent up under a certiorarito the circuit court. The counsel of Chiles, after
the appeal to this court, went into. the circuit court and suggested that the deed had been produced on the hearing of the cause;
and'he now asks that it shall be considered by this court. It is,

SUPREME COURT.
[Boone v. Chiles.]

for this couft to decide what effect shall be given to it. Its admission to any consideration, is opposed.
The only paper regularly in the record is a quit claim deed, to
Chiles, and this made after the suit was commenced. Chiles
asserts that this gives him a right to one-eighth under Green
Clay as an innocent purchaser without notice. If Green Clay
was an innocent purchaser, Chiles was' not so. He well knew
the superior equity of the complainants, and he can have no benefit from Green Clay's title, if he had any ; as he is, in reference
to that title, a volunteer, with full notice.
3. As to the claims of the tenants, or those, who are in possession of the land.
They, like Chiles, hold under the complainants, and must take
their fate with Chiles.'
They purchased from South, who stated that he claimed under
the bond of Searcy, and this was sufficient to put them on the
inquiry as to the real owner of the land. All the tenants, from
1718, hold under Chiles, having purchased from him. Theytherefore have acknowledged the right of the complainants ; but,
as Chiles could not convey their right, they cannot avail .themselves of the purchase friom him. Cited 2 Bibb's Reports,-506.
'By the purchase from Chiles, they held a title consonantlo
that of the defendants. No adverse title can be so acquired.
They never were in possession, adversary to the possession of the
appellants. What, in Kentucky, according to the decisions of
the courts of'that state, is an adversary possession ? Holding under a different or opposing title adversely ; not when both hold"
under the same title. This principle br-ings the purchasers from
South under the title of the heirs of Hoy, which is not adverse.
4 Bihb. Rep.; 3 Littel. Rep. 134, 20; 5 Littel. 316 ; 6 Littel.
444. In two of the cases cited Chiles-was a party.
In the record of the case, there appears a recovery from the
tenants by Chiles, under the title of Hoy's heirs. The appellents have a conveyance from Mrs. South, who was one of the
heirs of Hoy.. The sale by her husband could give no title.
In reference to the allegation of champerty, which is made
from the connextion of Boon Engles with the case, it is urged
that at the time of the agreement between Engles and Boone,

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Boone v. Chiles.]

there was no, law against champerty in Kentucky. The law
against champerty was repealed- in 1798, and was not renewed
until 1824.
This 'is a contest between two equities; and the complainants
have the elder, and are justly entitled to a preference. They
have five-eighths of the land, besides Newland's one-eighth
uiid yet the decree gives them but four-eighihs. They are also
entitled to a proportionate decree for the rents and profits.
Mr. Underwood for William Chiles.
The bond of Searcy stipulates that a title shall be made, and
this has been done, and the obligation has beeh complied with ;
and yet a bill in chancery is filed to have a title made. The
complainants ask to have (lone what is already done.
The obligation of the bond was completed, by the issuing
of the patents to Hoy. All he was to obtain was delivei'ed to
him, and there is then no foundation for this proceeding. If
there could be a claim for a deed with warranty, even this is
satisfied by the patents.
The bill does not charge fraud in Searcy, by assigning the plat
and certificates, so that they could get the title ; and,Searcy or
his heirs, are not made parties to this proceeding ; and yet a specific execution of Searcy's contract is asked. This is an objection to the proceedings.
The assignee Boone has no right to complain of the assignment
of the title to Hoy, unless he proves that Searcy had no notice
of his right to receive it.
By the assignment of the bond to Boone by 140y, he. udertook nothing but as a surety ; .and there is no- remedy against a
surety under the laws of 'Kentucky, until after the principal has
been prosecuted to insolvency ; which has not been done.
Nor does the bond furnish a sulticient description of the land,
so that a speeifit performance can be asked from Lcourt of equity.
No decree can be.giveti for a conveyance of any particular part-of
the land. The bond is for seven hundred acres the survey iu-"
eludes two thousand acres; and the appellants ask one-half of that
quantity. Out of what part of the survcy, is ti sevon lundred
acres to be taken ? They can have but seven hundred acres. Hoy
VOL. X.--Z

SUPREME COURT.
[Boone v. Chiles.]

is to have the first choice ; but he must have made it, and specialty
designated the part chosen, before a bill in equity for any part
of the land could be filed. It is now too late to make the election as toa particular part. Forty or fifty years have elapsed. The
1apse of time has barred all remedy on the bond, if it ever existed.
The courts of Kentucky allow a bill for a specific execution of
a contract to be filed in favor of possession after twenty.years
but in.
no case do they permit the proceeding when twenty years
have passed, and there has been no possession. I Dana 236. To
",escape from this rule, it is attempted to show that the cause of
action has originated within twenty years.
The construction of the bond, which is claimed by the appellants, is denied. The title was to be made within a short period
and the assertion that the history of the country shows the title,
could not have been made sooh after the date of the bond, is
-contradicted by the fact that the patents for the land were soon
obtained. The terms of the bond havereference to the granting
of the patents. Thei longest indulgence given by the laws of the
state expired in 1798. If the time could be extended to 1800,
this suit was not brought until twenty-three years after; and
there is nothing which, satisfactorily, accounts for the delay.
Searcy, or his heirs, and Hoy, or his heirsr should have been
niade parties. The rule in Kentucky is, that all parties, who
have an interest, should be before the coturt, for the settlement
of all the matters. This has not been done, and the proceedings
are irregular.
There is another principle which has a strong influence in this
case, and which is the established law in Kentucky. When this
bond was given, it was not assignable. The statute making it
assignable, passed long after it was made. The courts of Kentucky have decided, that where you proceed on an instrument
assigned before.the statute, you must bring in all the heirs, and
all others interested.
Another objection to the complainants' success, arises from the
survey containing two thousand acres, under the pre-emption
and settlenent rights, of which Martin has one-half'; and yet
Chiles is to patt with all his interest iii favor. of those who can
rjcover no more than seven hundred acres. Who is entitled to

JANUARY TERM 1836.
iBoone v. Chiles.]

the surplus of the seven hundred acres, which will remain out
of the one-half of the ,two thousand acres? Chiles is to be deprived of all but that he holds under Green Clay, which he should
hold. The complainants can have a right to no more than seven
hundred acres, and they can recover no more. Three hundred
acres remain, and they belong to Chiles and to Hoy's heirs.
Adversary claims exist to parts of the lands, and the adverse
claimants are in possession. This is an objection to a selection
being made. All the interfering claims cannot be thrown on the
half belonging to Martin. No selection can now be made.
As to the deed executed by Newland and wife : it is here as if
on a certiorari, and it appears to have been ceitified by order of
the circuit court. The principle has been well settled in the
court -of appeals of Kentucky, allowing ififerior courts to amend
the record, and certify the papers which were used in the case.
The deed is to be regarded as a deed on the record.
As to the answer of Newland and wife, which is referred to
in order to diminish the effect of this deed, it can have no influenee against the regularly executed instrument. It is executed
according to the Kentucky statutes. The deed proves that one
of-the heirs of Hoy had passed the land to Green Clay, and he
passed it to Chiles. -Clay had no notice of the claims of the
complainants, and he was'an innocent bona fide purchaser without
notice. There is no objection to the deed, founded on the fact
that the parties were out of possession. No statute of Kentucky
then existed making it void. This deed fully entitles Chiles to
the part of the land which Mrs..Newland had, as one of the
children of Hoy.
Mr. Hardin, for the tenants, contended that the whole quantity of land the appellants could claim, was seven hundred acres.
One thousand acres df the two thousand surveyed under Searcy's
rights belonged to Martin; and the bond, under which Boone
claimed, was for seven hundred acres. Under any circumstanees,
no right could be asserted with success to a greater quantity.
The deed, by a fair and equitable construction of the bond, was
to be given when the patent issued, which was in 1805; and a
transfer of the plat and certificate was a compliance with it.

SUPREME- COURT.
[Boone v. Chiks.]

Hoy had assigned the bond to George Boone before he obtained the title, and there is no evidence that bond was ever delivered to Thomas Boone. The assignment was not under seal,
and i.t was, consequently, affected by the law on the subject of
such instruments; and five years are by the laws of Kentucky,
a positive bar to claims under such instruments. A bar at law,
is also a bar" in equity. Sugden on Vendors, 272.
The power of attorney fiom Thomas Boone to George Boone,
.gave him autho'ity to do all that he did do. Under that power
George Boone gave up the original bond to the executor of Hoy,
as he found the land was covered with adverse claims; and he
took another bond to make a title to other land. This was a full
compliance with the obligation, and after this the tenants purchased from South, who had the. bond in his possession. The'y
paid him, and they were. in possession for upwards of thirty years
before Thomas Boone commenced this suit. If George'Boone
exceeded his authority, who is to suffer? Certainly Thomas
Boone. He remained silent for thirty years, and made no manifestations of a disavowal of the acts of his'attorney, Will not
the court presume every thing in favor of a possession, held under such circumstances. Will they not presume a conveyance
from Thomas Boone,'.or some ratification of the acts of his attorney, to those who thus held the land. Cited Blight's heirs
v. McElroy, Wheat. I Phil. ed. 124 ; 10 John. 337.
Twenty years' possession of land in Kentucky bars an action of
ejeetment ; and if A has been for that time in possession, claiming
under B, a conveyance is presumed. Thirty years is a bar to a
writ of right, and a patent is presumed after that time. As to
presumption in favor of possession, cited Cowp. 215.
This is a stale claim, which, having slept for nearly half a
century, is ndw to be sustained by a court of equity, after the
limitation of an ejectment, and even of a writ of right. It will
receive no favor. It is also contended that the agreement, between Thomas Boone and Boone Inglis, makes this a case of
champerty. Cited I Hawk. Pleas of the Crown, 471, ch. 27;
Statute of lien. 8, against purchasing pretence titles ; Dig. Law
Kentucky of 1798; Littel's Dig. 215.
The heirs of Hoy are necessary parties, and they should have

JANUARY TERM 1836,
[Boone Y;Chiles.]

been brought in and have answered, before the suit could properly proceed.. One of the heirs is an idiot; and she could not
defend by an ordinary guardiati, but a guardian should have been
appointed by the court. George Boone, or his heirs, and Reuben
Searcy, or his heirs, were also' necessary parties.. Cited 3
Bibb, 11.
Mr. Crittenden, for the appellants, argued that this case is no
more than the common claim of the holders of an equitable title
to obtain the legal title ; to which they have full right in equity.
Tile evidence in the record fully establishes the' right of the
complainants, under Searcy ; and that right they have never
parted with. Neither the frauds of George Boone, or that of
Chiles, can avail to defeat their rights : and last of all, w ill this
court be disposed to protect Chiles, who, with a full knowledge
of the rights of the complainants, has sought to defeat them,
while pretending to establish them.
An objection has been raised on the, ground that the bond
does not sufficiently describe the land, so as to enable the court
to carry the contract into execution ; but this is not well founded.
The tract of land is named, and the contract is for one-half. The
decisions of the courts of Kentucky sustain a claim of this kind:
and it is the delight of a court of equity to carry contracts into
execution, if it can, possibly, be done. The construction of the
powers of chancery claimed by the defendants, would defeat its
legitimate and most necessary and most salutary functions. If
any-difficulty does exist, the court will have the portion allotted
by a reference to a commissioner; a practice. which exists in
England, as well as in this country. As to the excess of land,
it is inconsiderable ; certainly not sufficient to require that the
contract shall be reformed.
It lhas been contended, that the transfer of the plat and certificates, by Searcy to Hoy, was a performance of the bond. This
was not so. Performance to Hoy, was not performance to
Boone. But if Searcy did comply with his bond, still the complainants have their righits against Hoy, to the same extent as
against Searcy. The assignment is special, and is equivalent to
a bond from Hoy to convey, and the bill is against his heirs.

SUPREME COURT.
[Boone v. Chiles.I

While it is said Searcy has complied with his contract, it is yet
said he or his heirs shouldbe made parties.! The only important
questions in this case are, whether Thomas Boone has parted with
his rights ; and whether these rights are lost by lapse of time.
The power of attorney to George Boone, gave no right to sell
the land, oir to impair the title to it. It authorized his completing the title, and no more. Those who claim to derive a
benefit from the acts of an attorney, must look to his powers.
The:assignment made by George Boone to South, purports to
be under the power of attorney and yet no such authority was
given by it.
Nor can tle allegation be supported, that Thomas Boone
.parted with his right to Hezekiah Boone. It was a conditional
contract, and the condition was not performed. It was abandoned by Hezekiah Boone, and he paid no part (f the consideraChiles sought out Hezekiah
tion mentioned in the agreement.
Boone, and availed himself of the agreement; using the name of
Thomas Boone to obtain in the Bourbon county court a title in
him : thus availing himself of Thomas Boone's equity, procured
a deed to be made to him. This was in 1817, and the present
suit was commenced in 1822.
The lapse of time is no bar in favor of the tenants. While
the general rnles in favor of presumption are not denied, it is not
admitted that they apply to the claims set up by them. Mere
possession is nothing; and the right growing out of it depends
on the character of that possession. Possession is merely adverse,
when held subordinate to the party from whose title it is derived.
Under such circumstances, it enures to the benefit of him who
has tle right ; and this was the case of the tenants : not having
entered under an. adversary title, they cannot claim adversely.
But whatever might have been the position of the tenants, under
a long possession, had they rested on their possession, and resisted the claims of all who desired to interfere With them upon
it ; they surrendered all such protection when they purchased
from South, who claimed no title but under the bond of Boone.
In 1792 and 1794, they-took that title derived from Hoy ; and
they remained under it until 1817. The evidence :fully establishes that they never set up any other title ;they alleged no

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Boone v. Chiles.]

conveyance, but asserted to derive all they had under South,
.who asserted that he had Thomas Boone's title, derived from
the bond. Thus they always recognised the rights of the complainants.
The decree of the circuit court gives to the complainants four
parts, or one-half; but if the title remained in Hoy's heirs, they
show a title to six-eighths, or two-thirds ; and they have also' the
right of Mrs. South. The only remaining right is that of Newland and wife.
They conveyed to Green Clay, who conveyed to William
Chiles, and the question is whether Clay was a bona fide purchaser. This is denied, lie did not stand in a situation to have
any protection as such. In his answer he denies notice, geuerally,
but he does not deny all the allegations in the bill. To entitle
himself to protection, he must show payment of the consideration
before notice. Ile must allege that the persons under whom he
claimed were seized, or pretended to be seized : and the evidence shows that Newland and wife were not in possession ; but
that the land was in the actual possession of others, claiming title.
This was enough to put a party on inquiry.

Chiles asserted in his bill in the Bourbon court, that Clay had
notice ; and the deed from Newland and wife is a mere quit-claim
deed. It is denied that the holder of a mere quit-claim deed
can-be a bona fide purchaser. Chiles cannot avail himself of
Green Clay's title, even if it were valid.
The statutes of Kentucky make a deed, executed under a decree, vest the legal title ; and Chiles, under the decree of the
Bourbon court, had a legal title to the land. The reversal of the
decree did not divest the title. But if it did revoke the deed, it
was like a purchase pendente lite ; and this court is not bound to
notice it.

As to the allegation that the case is affected by champerty, it
will be found on a reference to the Kentucky statutes, that no
law of champerty existed at the time of the contract between
Thomas Boone and Boone Engles. Subsequent to that time, the
law was revived ; but it had been repealed.
Mr. Justice

BALDWIN

deliveied the opinion ul tie Court

SUPREME .COURT.
Chilcs.]
[Boone v..

Reuben Searcy was entitled, in virtue of the law of Virginia
of May 1779, as an actual*settler, to four hundred acres of land
in right of settlement, and a pre-emption of one thousand acres
adjoining; one-half whereof he gave to John Martin for location
and patenting; and by'bond, dated 24th September, 1781, bound
himself to convcy seven hundr-1 acres thereof to William Hoy,
c as soon as deeds are made to l~nds in this country in general."
Hoy was to have the first choice of the lands-he bought Martin's
sha'e. On the 1th December, 1781, loy, by an endorsement
on the bond, assigned it to George Boone, his heirs and assigns;
obliging himself.' as surety to the within bond, and if the within
lands cannot be obtained, by reason of a prior claim, then, and
in that case, seven hundred acres, equal in quality and convenience, shall discharge the within bond." On the 30th April,
1783, George Boone, by another assignment on the bond, assigned his right to Thomas Boone, his heirs or assigns, without recourse, if Iloy or his heirs are sufficient to make good the bond ;
if not, George Boone bound himself and heirs to make it good to
Thomas Boone, his heirs and assigns.
William Hoy obtained a patent in his own name, in 1785, for
the whole tract; containing, by actual survey, about two thousand
acres. Thomas Boone was in Kentucky in 1802, 1810, and 1819,
in the neighborhood of the land, but nevg4 took possession of
any part, or instituted any suit to recover them ; he resided and
died in Pennsylvania.. In 1823 he filed a bill in tile circuit court
of Kentucky, against William Chiles, Hezekiah Boone; George
Bootie, Nicholas Smith,jr., Nicholas Smith, sen., Jacob Smeltzer,
George H. Baylor, Joseph Smith, John Evalt, and Joseph Cummins, praying for a conveyance of the legal title, and account of
rents and profits; and such other and further relief as his case may
require. After his death, in December 1817, the bill was duly
revived by his heirs. By an amended bill the 'heirs of John
South were made defendants, in 1824. By another amended.
bill, the heirs of William Hoy were likewise made defendants, in
1827. In 1832 the plaintiffs, by an amendment to their bill,
averred that Reuben Searcy was dead, intestate, and without
heirs in Kentucky ; and made the heirs of George Boone parties.
The several answers of the defendants present distinct cases

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Boone v. Chiles.]

for our consideration • each depending on its own circumstances,
requires a separaip view and examination : that of William Chiles
will be first considered. The general ground of relief set forth
by the plaintiffs, against all the defendants, is founded on the
assignments of Searcy's bond to. Thomas Boone, as conveying
the equitable title to the seven lundred acres, of which Hoy
held the. legal title; on this the general equity of the bill depended, which the plaintiffs made out. In the original bill, it was
charged against William C hiles, that ThomasBoone, by the bond
and assignlnents' had a clear equity to the one-half of the land
patented to Hoy, (but was content to hold the parcels decreed
to Chiles, as afterwards explained,).of which plaintiff had never
been divested. That in 1802 he had made an assurance, that he
would convey to Hezekiah Boone, provided he would pay him
ih four years, seven hundred pounds; but the purchase was
declined; no money paid, and the arrangement given up/
That in 1818, Chiles and the other defenda'nts, in their own and
complainant's name, filed a bill in the Bourbon circuit court of
Kentucky, against the heirs of Hoy ; charging that plaintiff sold
the land to Hezekiah Boone, and he to Chiles,'and that all the
plaintiffs in that suit desired the heirs of Hoy to convey the legal
title which was prayed for by the bill ; that Chiles obtained a decree for a conveyance, and a deed-from a commissioner appointed by the court, to himself, of the interest of Hoy's heirs; Chiles
having full notice of Thomas Boone's title, and that the contract
with Hezekiah Boone had not been complied with. The bill
also charges, that the Bourbon suit was fraudulently instituted,
and.prosecuted without the knowledge of Thomas Boone; that
he never consented that the deed should be made to Chiles, who
had no just claim to the land, but had engaged to maintain Smeltzer, Smiths, Evalt, Cummins, and Baylor in the possession of it.
Chiles, in his answer, admits the bond and assignment to Thomas
Boone; he then sets up a sale by Thomas to Hezekiah Boone;
and that on the 30th October, 1817, he, Chiles, purchased from
the latter, by a written contract referred to. He admits the suit in
Bourbon county was brought by himself, Thomas Boone the now
complainant, George and Hezekiah Boone; on which there was
a decree and conveyance made to him as charged, and refers to
VOL. x.-2

A

,202

SUPRENIE COURT.
(Boone v. Chiles.]

the proceedings in that suit ; relying on it as a bar to-all claim by
Thomas Boone for the purchase money. He admits full knowledge of plaintiffs' interest, coupled with the knowledge that he
had parted with it ; that the sale was ratified by his agent, by
power of attorney, and the agent's signature To the contract of
purchase ; both of which are made part of his answer. He insists
on thisale to Hezekiah ; denies fraud in instituting the Bourbon
suit; and answers its being done without plaintiffs' knowledge,
by averring it was under the power of attorney, and contract
with Hezekiah Boone ; and pleads the record as an estoppel in
bar of plaintiffs' assertions ;Which he denies.
He also further states, that he has purchased out and holds the
interest of Hoy's heirs, as he can show by title and contracts
regularly made but ; and sets pp the lapse of time and total dereliction of his claim, as A bar to plaintiffs' right to any land. The
answer concludes by averring payment by Hezekiah to Thomas
Boone, of the money due on the contract of 1802 ; if any balance
is due, offers to pay it ; but insists that plaintiff has no right to the
land to which Chiles hold the legl title, and has a right to hold
it ; on doing equity to plaintiff, if not already done.
In the amended bill against Hoy's heirs, the plaintiffs charg.ed Chiles with having fraudulently, and with knowledge of Thomas Boone's equitable interest, obtained a conveyance of the
title 6f three of the children of William Hoy, one'of whom was
Celia Newland and her husband.
In answer to this bill, Chiles admits the purchase from two of
these children directly to himself, and that Newland and wife
sold to Green Clay, who conveyed to him: he then alleges Clay
to have been an innocent purchaser for a valuable con-Sideration,
without notice, till his purchase was complete, and prays pro.
tection as to this part of the land.
Thispresents the contest between the plaintiffs and Chiles in a
double aspect: first, as to his claim generally ; and next,'as to his
claim under Green Clay, as to the share of Mrs. Newland, which
will be distinctly considered. The power of attorney from Thomas to George Boone, dated 1st October, 1787, authorized him
to demand and receive a deed from William Hoy, for the seven

JANUARY TERM 1636.
[Booule v. Chiles.]

hundred acres, to act fully for- liim in the premises, to appoint
attorneys under him ; and on receiving a title and conveyance
in the name-of Thomas Boone, to give a discharge of the bond
and Hoy's engagement. The agreement between Thomas and
Hezekiah Boone, dated 30th November, 1802, was for the conveyance of this land, for seven hundred pounds, to be paid in
four years ; with an opfion to Ilezekiah, within that time, to take
the land or not.
The agreement under which Chiles claims to have purchased
is in the following words:
"Articles of agreement made and entered into the 30th day of
October, 1817, between Hezekiah Boone, of the county of Woodford, and George Boone, of the county of the county of Shelby, of
the one part, and William Chiles, of the county of Montgomery,
of the other part, and all-of the state of Kentucky, witnesseth,
that the said Hezekiah and George has this day delivered up to
the said Chiles all the papers they hold relative to the tract of
land containing 700 acres, it being a part of a settlement and preemption granted by the commissioners to Reuben Searcy ; and the
said Hezekiah ahd George Boone further agrees that tie said
Chiles shall have the free use of all the said papers, for the purpose
of eoercing the title to said land, if any is to be had, if not to get
the amount in cash;.and the said Chiles, on his part, is to use diligence in getting the title or the cash for said 700 acres of land,
and is hereby authorized to effect the above purposes, either by
-uit or by compromise, provided the compromise is not for lesa
than three thousand dollars, as he may think the most advantageous
to the pArtics to this article ; and thp said Chiles further agrees,
on his part, to defray all the expenses of the abovementioned in.
vestigation ; and when the above business is finished, the said
Chiles agrees, further, to pay over the one equal half of the pro.
ceeds of the above business, if in cash or bonds, and if in land,
the one equal half of what may be obtained, to the said Hezekiah
Boone, and the other half the said Chiles keeps for himself; and
the said George Boone declares himself satisfied with the above
contract. For the true performance of the above, the said Chiles
and ttezekiah Boone bind themselyes each to the other in the

SUPREME COURT.

204.

[Boone v. Chiles.]

penalty of ten thousand dollars.
seals the date above written.

Given under our hands-and
HEZEKIAU BOONE,

[seal.]

GEORGE BOONE,

[seal.]

Attorney in fact for Thomas Boone.
"Teste, &c.

WILLIAM CHILES,

[seal..]"

These are the papers referred to in Chiles's answer, on which
he relies to make himself a purchaser of the equitable title of
Thomas Boone; under which he obtained a decree of the Bourbon court, a deed from the commissioner of the whole legal title
of Hoy's heirs, and a deed from two of them to himself.
From the evidence in the record, it appears very clearly, that
Hezekiah Boone never complied with 'the agreement with
Thomas Boone; paid no part of the purchap& money; andi abandoned the contract many years before the agreement with
Chiles, to whom the state of the contract was explained before
his agreement with Hezekiah and George Boone. As a matter
of law, it is equally clear, that the power of attorney to George
Boone, gave him no authority to sell the land, or to take a conveyance from the heirs of Hoy, to any other person than Thomas
Boone or his heirs. Chiles admits, that when the agreement
was made between -him, Hezekiah and George Boone, he knew
.of the titre of Thomas Boone ; that he instituted and conducted
thq suit in the Bourbon court, under the 'power of attorney to
George Boone, who sigued the agreem'nt of 1817, as the attorney in fact of Thomas, Chiles does not pretend to have ever
paid, or agreed to'pay any thing for the land : -on the contrary,
the agreement shows he was to pay nothing from his own pocket,
in any event, except the expenses to be incurred. Itdoes not
even purport to be a.purchase, or contain one clause or word
which can be construed as such. The papers are delivered up
to him for the purpose of coercing the title, or getting the
amount in cash ; one-half of which, in casb of success, he is to
give to -Hezekiah Boone, and retain th other for his own use.
Nothing is to go to Thomas. George Boone, his agent, consents to it; and Chiles procures the legal title to himself in virtue of these papers.

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Boone v. Chiles.]

Such is the case between the.parties, as presented 1v ,'pleadings, exhibits, and evidence. A court of equity must be
regardless of all its rules, before it can recognise Chiles as a
purchaser, or as having any right whatever in the land : it must
also forfeit its character, if it sanctions such a course of iniquitous fraud. We deem it wholly useless to contrast the relative
equities of the. plaintiffs and Chiles, in order to affirm their right
to a decree for the conveyance of the legal title, obtained in violation of every principle which governs courts of equity ; unless
he has made out some objections to the relief prayed, on grounds
unconnected with the justice of the case.
It is objected. that, inasmuch as the condition
of-Searcy's bond
to Hoy was satisfied on, the latter obtaining the patent, the
plaintiffs can have no equity by its assignment. This would be
a sufficient answer to a suit against Searcy ; but is none to a suit
against Hoy's heirs, to enforce the performance of the terms of
the assignment from Hoy to George Boone ; which wqre an
agreement to transfer the seven hundred acres, or an equivalent
in quantity and convenience. As between Hoy and Boone, and
his assigns; this gave a right to call on Hoy for the legal title,
which Chiles has taken to himself, when the equity was in the
plaintiffs; whose equity depends, not on the bond of Searcy, butthe contract of Hoy, made by the assignment of his equitable
interest in the land.
This view-of the' case, disposes of the objection that the heirs
of Searcy are not parties : they had no interest in the land ; their
father's bond was satisfied by the performance of the condition,
when the patents were obtained by Hoy ; who, by purchase from
Martin and Searcy, held the legal title to the whole fourteen
hundred acres, subject to be divested only by the equity of Boone,
derived by this agreement 'totransfer the one-half. No act,
therefore, remained to be performed-by the heirs of Searcy ; the
title of Boone becomes complete, by the union of his equitable,
with Hoy's legal title, without any. interposition bf the heirs of
- Searcy, who have no interest to defend or title to convey. The
purchase from Martin removes another objection, arising from
Hoy having the first choice of the land, and dying without having made it; whereby, as is alleged, the- subject-matter of the

SUPREME COURT.
[Boone v.Chiles.]

bill was too vague to authorize a decree in favor of the plaintiffs.
As Hoy held the whole tract, there was no necessity for his
making the selection, ifbeing immaterial to him which part he
held under Martin or Searcy : his not making the election, and
holding the whole in fraud of the rights of his assignee, could
not prejudice him, to whom he had transferred as well the right
of selection, as the land itself, in equity. Independently, however, of this consideration, we think that the identity of the land
is ascertained by the terms of the bond and assignment, as well
as the parties themselves; it was the one-half of the claim of
Searcy, both by-pre-emption and settlement,to be chosen by Hoy;
whose assignees had the same right to choose as had been in
him. Chiles, under the pretence and claim of being Hoy's assignee, made the choice by selling to the Smiths and Srneltzer,
the parts of the land on which they resided: and the plaintiffs,
by their original bill, agree to take their share of the land, according to the decree of the Bourbon court, in that place. This
selection is, therefore, binding on both partiesf; so that Chiles is.
not at liberty to contest the location, made first by his own act
in the sale to the occupants, confirmed by a decree obtained at
his own suit, and agreed to by the plaintiffs, as to the part to be
conveyed.
It is further objected, that there is a surplus in the survey to
which the heirs of Boone are not entitled ; if this objection could
be sustained by any of the parties to this suit, it could be onlyby
those whose rights by purchase or possession would be disturbed,
'by decreeing to the plaintiffs more than the seven hundred acres,
As Chiles has neither-any right by purchase, or any equity by
long possession or improvemeiits; but claims only by the fraudulent assumption of the plaintiffs' equitable title; the land exclusively claimed by him, would be the first to be appropriated tothem ; and any surplus would be reserved for the benefit of those
who had some pretensions to an equitable interest in it.
The lapse of time and the staleness of the plaintiffs' equity, is
also set up as a bar to a decre in their favor; but whatever effect
time may have in -equity in favor of a possession long and peace'ably held, it can have.none in favor of Chiles, whose only claim
is under the equity of Thomas, Boone, and against wvlhom the pre.

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Boone v. Chiles.]

sent suit was brought in six years after he first interfered with
it. It cannot be permitted to him to acquire the legal title of
Hoy, in virtue of Boone's equity, and to hold it to his own use ;
on the ground that Boone's right had become extinct by the lapse
of time, before he acquired it. The means by which the legal
title has been conveyed to Chiles, have affected his conscience
too deeply with fraud, for a court of equity to suffer him to enjoy its fruits. As to him, the plaintiffs have established a right
to a decree for the conveyance of whatever title he may have
derived by any conveyance to himself directly, of the legal right
of Hoy's heirs.
The next aspect of the case between the plaintiffs and Chiles,
is presented by the interposition of Green Clay, as an innocent
purchaser from Newland and wife, for a valuable consideration,
without notice ; under whom he claims protection.
In the amended bill, the plaintiffs charge the purchase from
Newland and wife to have been made fraudulently, and with notice of their title ; in answer to which Chiles states that Green
Clay bought and received the title from John Newland and wife,
knowing which, he made him a defendant in the Bourbon suit,
charging him to be a guilty purchaser, with notice of the equity
arising from the bond of Hoy ; but, Clay denying notice, and not
being able to prove it, Chiles bought his share, paid for it, and
obtained a conveyance. He, then refers to Clay's answer in the
Bourbon court; and insists that Clay was an innocent purclhaser
for a valuable consideration, without notice till his purchase was
complete.
In that suit Chiles had charged Clay not only with notice, but
that-he purchased from Newland and wife, binding himself to
make. good" all the con-tracts of William Hoy. In his answer,
Clay states, that the cpntract he made with Newland and wift
was bona fide, in good faith, for a valuable consideration paid
them without notice, or knowledge of any claim by Chiles; which
he believes is founded in fraud and imposition ; " as to the contract between this respondent and Newland and wife, it is committed to record, and will speak for itself; and this respondent
believes the complainant Chiles has misrepresented the true
meaning thereof;" but does not deny the averment that he was

SUPREME COURT.
[Booite v. Chiles.]

bound to perform Hoy's contracts. The answer of Newland and
wife to this part of the amended bill, states that, if they ever had
any interest in the land, they have transferred their interest by
a writing, amounting to a quit claim, to Green Clay, but they never conveyed their title by deed to him or any one else. This is
the substance of all the pleadings on this part of the case. In
1821, the Bourbon county court made a final decree in favor of
Chiles; as well against the heirs of Hoy, as Green Clay; which
was reversed by the court of appeals in 1827, for the want of
proper parties, without any examination of the merits.
In March, 1825, Green Clay, by his indenture, granted to
Chiles all the right, title, and interest which he holds by a deed
from Newland and wife, dated 23d of May, 1814, to the tract of
Searcy; and a pre-emption and settlement right of one Townsend,
.in consideration of two hundred and sixteen dollars, with warianty against himself and heirs, but against no other person.
The deed from Newland and wife to Green Clay was not referred to in the pleadings, made an exhibit in the cause, or so
far as appears, used in the circuit court; it was no part of the record before us at the argument of this cause at the last term, and
no suggestion of diminution was then made. At the May sessions of the circuit court, on a suggestion of the defendant, that
tihis 'deed was on file, and had been used at the hearing, the court
ordered it to be certified to this court; and the counsel for
plaintiffs having agreed to consider it as returned on a certiorari : it has been read, and we have taken it into our consideration as an exhibit in the cause. In doing this, however, 'we
must be distinctly understood, as clearly of opinion, that it is not
admissible by the rules of appellate courts; who can act on no
evidence which was not before the court below, or receive any
paper that was not used at the hearing. 9 Pet. .731. Nor
would it have been a proper subject for that court to have considered, had it been offered to make out the case of the defendant;
the deed was not set up or relied on in the answer of Chiles or
of Clay, which was referred to and made a part of it ;' the existence of such a deed was no part of their allegations. Clay asserted merely a contract; Chiles alleged only that Clay bought and
received the title of Newland and wife, without stating what the

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Boone v. Chiles.]

title was, or how purchased; whether by deed or otherwise. There
Was, therefore, no allegation in the answer of either, which referred to the deed ; it was not made a part of their case, which
was put on a contract of purchase, and not a deed consummating
it by a conveyance. A party is not allowed to state one case in
.a bill or answer, and make out a different onec by proof: the
allegata and probata must agree ; the latter must support the
trmer, 4 Mad. R. 21, 9; 3 Wh. 527; 6 Wh. 468; 2 Wh. 380;
'2 Pet. 612 ; 11 Wh.103; 6 J. R. 559,63 ; 7 Pet.;274 : and there
is no one subject of equity cognizance, on which there is a wider
difference between a deed and a contract of purchase, than in the
vne now under consideration. A purchaser 'with notice may
protect himself under a purchaser by deed without notice ; but
cannot do it by purchase from one who holds or claims by contract only... The cases are wholly distinct, In the former, the purchaser with notice is protected ; hi the latter, he has no standing in
equity, for an obvious reason :-that the plaintiffs' elder equity shall
prevail, unless the defendant cah shelter hinhself under the legal
title acquired by one whose conscience was not affected with
fraud or notice, and who can impart his immunity to a guilty purchaser, as the representative of his legal rights fairly acquired by
deed, in such a manner as exemptsihim from the jurisdiction of
,a court of equity. Such a purchase affixes no stain-on the con-science, and equity cannot disturb the legal title. But as it does
%ot pass by a contract of purchase witholut deed, the.defendant
can aquire only an equity, the transfer of which does not absolve
him from the consequences of his first fraudulent purchase. His
second purchase of an equity will not avail him -more than the
first; for the original notice of the plaintiff's equity taints-his conscience, so as to imake himn a mere trustee, if he holdsthe legal title
from one.who is not an~innocent, bona fide, purchaser. It,
then,
Green Clay purchased oaiy by contract fron Newland and wife,
they held the legal title ; such was the case presented by the
answer on which Chiles must stand at the hearing.: but if permitted to rely on a deed ; the court would render a decree on a
-case not before them, or one which .the plaintiff would be prepared to meet. 6 J. C. 349. For these reasons we should have
omitted any notice of this deed. but as it has been commented
VOL. x-2 H

SUPREME COURT.
[Boone v. Chilrs.j

on in the argument, and it is for the iiiterest of all parties that
the merits of-the case be finally adjudicated ; we have, for this
purpose, considered it as evidence in the cause. It is an indenture for the consideration of one hundred dollars, granting to
Green Clay, his heirs and assigns, all the right, title, claim, and
interest of Newland nd wife in the real and personal estate of
William Hoy; all debts, dues, demands, rents, and profits, in law
or equity, to which she was entitled as one of his heirs and legatees; with warranty against themselves and all claiming under
them ; but against no other person whatever; and with also an!
agreement for further assurance, but in such a way as not to make
themselves liable further than to convey such title as descended to
them from William Hoy.
This is the case set up in the answer, and made out by the
proofs in the cause, to make out Green Clay to be such a purehaser, that his deed to Chiles will absolve the latter from the
consequences of his fraudulent purchase, with full notice of the
plaintiffs' equity ; whether this is such a sase as will give to
Chiles the protection he claims, depends on the rules which courts
of equity have adopted as to bona fide purchasers, for a valuable
epnsideration, without notice.
It is a general principle in courts of equity, that, where both
parties claim by an equitable title, the one who is prior in time
is deemed the better in right. 7 Cr. 18; 1S J. R. 532; 7 Wh.
46 : and that where the equities are equal in point of merit, the
law prevails.
This Icads to the reason for protecting an innocent purchaser,
holding the legM title, against one who has the prior equity : a
court of equity can act only on the conscience of a party; if he
has done nothing that taints it, no demand can attach upon it, so
as to give any jurisdiction. Sugden on Vend. 722. Strong as a
plaintiff's equity may be, it can in nio case be stronger than that
of a purchaser, who has put himself in peril by purchasing a
title, and paying a valuable consideration, without notice of any
defect in 'it, or adverse claim to it: and when, in addition, he
shows a legal title from one seised and possessed of the property
purchased, he has a right to demand protection and relief, 9. Ves.
30-4, which a court of equity imparts liberally. Such suitors

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Boone

-are its most especial favorites.

Chiles.]

",.

It will not inquire how he may

have obtained a statute, mortgage, incumbrance, or even a satisfied legal term, by which he can defend himself at law, if outstanding; equity will not aid his adversary in taking from him the
tabula in naufragio, if acquired before a decree. Shower, P. C.
69; 4 B. P. C. 328; 1 D. & E. 767; P. C. 65; 7 V. 576; 10
V. 268, 70; 11 V. 619: 2 Ch. Cas. 135, 6; 2 Vin. 161; 1
Vent. 198. Relief will not be granted against him in favor of
the widow or orphan. P. C. 249; 2 V. jr. 457,8; 5 B. P. C.
292; nor shall the heir see the title-papers. 18 Vin. 115; 1 Ch.
Cas. 34, 69; 2 Freem. 24, :13, 175; it is a bar to a bill to perpetuate testimony, or for discovery. 1 Harrison's Ch. 261,3 ; Sugden 723, 4, 1 Virnon, 354, and goes to the jurisdiction of the court
over him ; his conscience being cleat, any adversary must be left
to his remedy at law, 2 V. jr. 457, 3 V. jr. 170, 183, 9 V. 30,
and 18 J. R. 532, 7 Cr. 18.
But this will not be done on mere averment, or alegation ; the
protection of such bona fide purchase, is necessary ohly when
the plaintiff has a prior equity ; which can be barred or avoided
only by the union of the legal title with an equity, arising from the
payment&of the money, and reeeiving the conveyance without notce-, and a clear conscience. It is setting up matter not in the bill
a new ease is presented, not responsive to the bill ; but one founded on a right and title operating, if made out, to bar and avoid
the plaintiffs equity, which must otherwise prevail, 9, V. 33, 34.
The answer setting it up is no evidence against the plaintiff, who
is not bound to contradict or rebut it, 14, J. R. 63, 74. 1 Murf.
396, 7. 109 J. R. 544, 8. 2 Wh. 383. 3 Wh. 5297. 6 Wh. 48. 1 J.
C. 461. It must be established affirmatively by the defendant independently of his oath, 6 J. R. 559. 1 J. R. 590. 17 J. R. 367.
18 J. R. 532,. 2 J. C. 87, 90. 4 B. C. 75. Amb. 589. 4 Y. 404,
587. 3 J. C. 583. In setting it up by plea or answer, it must
state the deed of purchase, the date, parties, and contents briefly;
that the vendor was seized in fee, and in possession ; the consideration must be stated, with a distinct averment that it was bona
fide and truly paid, independently of the recital in the deed.
Notice must be denied previous to, and down to the time of paying the money, and the delivery of the deed ; and if notice is

SUPREME COURT.
[Boone v. Chiles.]

specially charged, the denial must be of all circumstances referred to, from which notice can be inferred ; and 'the answer or
plea show how the grantor acquired title, Sugden 766, 70. 1 Ath.o
384.3 P. IV. 2801 ,243, 307. Arab. 421.2 Atk. 230.8-Wh. 449,
12 Wh. 52. 5 Pet. 718. 7 J. C. 67. 'The title purchased must
be apparently perfect, good at law, a vested estate in fee simple 7
1 Cr. 100. 3 Cr. 133, 5. 1 Wash C. C. 75, It must be by a regular conveyance ; for the purchaser of an equitable title holds it
subject to the equities upon it in the hands of the vendor, and has.
no better standing. in a court of equity, 7 Cr. 48.7 Pet. 271. Sugden 722. Such is the case which must be stated to give a defendant the benefit of an answer or plea of an innocent purchase without notice; the case stated must be made-out, evidence
will not be permitted to be given of any other matter not set out,

7 Pet. 271.
Such are the privileges of innocent purchasers, and such the
guards against those who may assume their character in courts
of equity ; we have only to apply their law to the answers of Chiles
and Clay, together With the exhibits and proofs in the case, to
ascertain whether Clay filled that character when he conveyed
to Chiles, or at any other time. The answers are .as barren, of
the averments necessary to make a case of such a purchase as
would be pro.tected against the prior equity of the plaintiffs ; as,
the record is of the proof of any fact to support it. Nor does the
conside ration of the deed -from Newland and wife to Clay, bring
the case any nearer (o the estab.lished rules and principles of
equity.
Though, in form, a grant by indenture, it is in effect a mere release and quit-claim, as stated by Newland and wife in their an-,
swer; it does not purport or. profess to convey the land incontroversy ; nor does it assert any title to, or seisin of it; the.consi'deration expressed does not apply to this land, moie than tti a legacy
or personal property. The grant is definite only in one, respecti
that it is of whatever descended to the grantors friom'William Hoy,
but does not specify what it was; and the wbrds of the grant are
fully satisfied, if any thing*so descended; whether realty or personalty. As to this land, tiny was a trustee by his own contract;
nothing did or could descend to his heirs, but the dry, barren-

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Boone v. Chilcs.]

legal title, without a shadow of beneficial interest'; which was
all that Newland and wife intended to convey, or Clay to receive
by the deed. The covenants of warranty, and for further 'assurance, are expressly limited to their right, such as it was, and to
their own acts only : they gave no covenant against the acts of
Hoy: and by conveying only such interest as'they held by descent,
it passed to Clay with the same encumbrances of Boone's equity, as
if it had remained in Newland and wife; who, neither in their a'nswer orby their deed, pretend to any title or right. These circ'uinstances make the deed suspicious on its face ; and in theabsence
of affirmative proof to support the recital of the pa,'inent of the
consideration, of any evidence of seisin, or even a cla:m of title
by the grantors, rather weakens than sustain the answer. When
we find the distinct admission and, full proof of the prior equity
of the plaintiffs, with full notice to Chiles, who claimed, not as a
purchaser but by a special contract with Hezekiah Boone, for the
division between themselves, of whatever, either of land or money, they could recover in right of Thomasj3oone's known equity,
and with the plain intent to defraud him ; the purchase from
Clay, and the setting him up as innocent purchaser for a valuable
consideration without notice, under all the circumstances of this
case ; so far from.purging the conscieiice of Chiles of its original
taint, or imparting to him any protection as the representative
of Green Clay, stamps the conduct of both with bad faith. Chiles
appears on this record, a mere pretender to a purchase ; by his
agrceuient with Ilezekiah Boone and George Boone, as the attorney in fact of Thomas Boone, he purcl.ased the title of neither;
his only claim under it was to the one-half of whatever lie could
acquire. He did not, therefore, even fill the character of a purchaser with notice, who by the rules -of equity may purge his
guilty conscence by purchasing from one whose clear conscience
and legal title place him beyond the jurisdiction of equity ; the
immunity of an inanocent purchaser cannot be imparted. to the.
fraudulent usurper of another's rights without purchase.
But there is one circumstance, which gaves us the necessity
of cohsidering the defects in the averments of the answers or
proofs of the deed from Newland and wife to Clay, or from him
to Chiles.

214

SUPREME COURT.
[Boone v. Chiles.]

Chiles states, in his answer, that being unable to prove notice
to Green Clay before his purchase from.Newland and wife, he
purchased from Clay; yet he did so establish the fact of Clay's
-guilty purchase; that he obtained a decree against him in the
Bourbon court. He purchased from Clay, while that decree was
in full force ; and now appears on the record, claiming to be protected under this purchase by the -equity of Clay, as an,innocent
purchaser; when Clay, after being an adjudged inala fide purchaser, by the final decree of a court of competent jurisdiction,
clothed Chiles with his own character by his deed in 1825. It
would present the administration of equity jurisprudence in different courts on very different principles, if Clay, who could not
protect himself in a state court at the suit of Chilcs, could protect Chiles here, at the suit of Boone ; or that Chiles, after procuring the decree against Clay, in a suit to which he made
Thomas Boone a p'Laintiff, on the ground that he purchased with
notice ; should now obtain a decree against Boone, on the ground
that Clay was an. innocent purchaser, for a valuable consideration
fully paid, without notice of any defect in his title, till it was
complete at law by a conveyance in fee, and in equity by the
actual payment of the money. Neither the pleadings, the exhibits, or the evidence on this record, afford us any warrant for
such a proceeding: on the contrary, they make it our duty to decree a conveyance from Chiles to the plaintiffs, of whatever righ~t
or title he may have acquired by the deed fron Green Clay.
We are next to consider the case of the plaintiffs, as to the
other defendants.- The heirs of South,by their answer, disclaim
any interest in the land ; nor does it appear that the heirs of
Hezekiah or. George Boone have any interest in the land or
at any time have-been in possession, or held any title under
Hoy's patent. As to these defendants, therefore, there is no
subject-matter for any decree, except for the dismission of the
bill.
As to the heirs-of Hoy, the plaintiffs have made out an undoubted right to a conveyance of the legal title. Those who have
answered, set;i.op no title or claim to the lan'd ; and *they must
execute -the trust whieh has descended to them, by conveying
their legal title to plaintiffs.

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Boone v. Chile,.]

John Evalt is admitted to have been in possession for more
than twenty years, under an adverse title by patent to Flournoy.
The plaintiffs have, therefore, no right to. the land thus held.
Nichola Smith states, in his answer, that he holds fifty acres
of the land claimed by the plaintiffs, by purchase from John Jones,
by- deed, which he makes'an exhibit in the cause;' that this fifty
acres is a part of Flournoy's patent, which he holds adversely to
the claim of. Searcy. The deed is dated'in December, 1797,
conveying, in consideration of one hundred and twenty-five
pounds, fifty acres of land, with general warranty. Independently of the deed from Jones, it is clearly proved by several wi nesses, that Smith made the purchase from him ; settled on the
land in 1798, where he lived till his death; and that there was a
continued possession and residence on the land by him, and those
claiming under him, to the present time, and valuable improvemients made. The plaintiffs do not controvert this purchase or
residence ; they do not Charge Smith with any act affecting his
conscience, or show that he evei purchased, or made claim under
them, or any person asserting an) "ght under their title. The
title of Flouinoy appears to be by an equity older than Searcy's ;
though his patent is later than Hoy's. We can perceive no ground
of equity, to entitle the plaintiffs to a conveyance of the titl e thus
acquired by Smith. He and those under him, have had an adverse possession of twenty-five years, before the bringing of this
*suit; and his possession of the fifty acres cannot be disturbed,
either at law or in equity.
The only charge in the bill against the remaining defendants,
is their combining to institute the suit in the Bourbon court, of
which there is not only no proof, but the contrary appears by the
record of that suit; they were not parties, and took no part in the
prosecution of it. The bill, however, alledges that Chiles "had
made oine engagement to maintain Smeltzer, Smiths, 'Cummins,
and Baylor, in detaining possession', and enjoying the prolits for
a long time past, still refusing to surrender." The prayer against
them was "to compel the defendant, Chiles, or such of the defendants as nowvh old the title, to convey the tract described by
the deed under the decree to Chiles,. to account for rents and
profits, and such other and further relief as hiscase may require."

SUPREME COURT.
[Boone v. Chiles.]

'rile answer of Nicholas Smith, jr., Nicholas Smith, sr., Jacob
Smith, and George H. Baylor, was joint and several; jointly
they denied being parties to the Bourbon suit, or being bound
by the decree. They admit that Searcy claimed the land ; that
it was located by Martin, and patented to -ly; allege a surplus
of five or six hundred acres in the survey; and that plaintiff
could be satisfied without disturbing them; plead the lapse of
time, and staleniess of the demand as a.bar ; and deny the right
of the plaiptiffs to.recover. They state that they have been informed, that loy assigned Searcy's bond to George Boone ; call
for proof of the assignment to Thomas Boone ; charge that if the
bond was assigned to him, it has long since been cancelled between Thomas .andGeorge Boone; that George Boone assigned.
the land to John South, investing him with all the title to the
land, which George Boone derived from Wilii;.mu Hoy, by the
agency, consent, anL authority of Thomas B o~ne, if the bond
was ever assigned to him. They also charge, that South, by virtue of such assignment, held the bond till his de th, and that his
executor held it, till Chiles obtained it by friaud ;and that they
are entitled to certain parcel[s bf land, by purchase for a valuable
conideration, from John South, They then aver, that Peter
Snieltzer purchased four hundred acres, and took South's bond,
with, surety, for the title ; took possession of the same in 1791,
settled upon,.improved, and resided on it till his d,-ath. That'
George H. Baylor claims undey Smeltzer by purchase from his
heirs, fcr a valuable consideration ; now resides upon it; and that
a c ntinued residence has been kept upon the land, on which
theie, are large and valuable improvements.
That Nicholas
Slnith holds two hund-med acres, by purchase from Jacob Swope,
in 1797,- who purchased from George Pope, in 1795, who.purcha'sed 'from Soutli, in 1794. That Smith resided on this land
from '1798, and made valuable. imnprovenients thercon ; which
.residence has been continued by him, and those under him, to
the pre..nt time. These defendants, then charge, that Thomas
Boone was in Kentucky in 1802, 1810, and 1819; knew of the
sales.by South of the land. they occupied, btt gave them no notice of his title ; and, on the contrary, disclaimed it, in conversation, and then proceed to gi-ve. an account of heir connexion

JANUARY TERM 18'O
[Boone y.Chiles.]

with Chiles, in substance as follows. He' came to the Smiths
and Smeltzer, stating that he held Hoy's legal title to the land;
that South's bonds were worth nothing, and they would lo.e the
land and improvements : whereupon they, ignorant of their rights,
and the title to the land, compromised with Chiles, agreed to
give him up South's bonds; and to pay him ten dollars an acre,
in three annual instalments, for six hundred acres, each to pay
for his own share. Chiles was to make them Hoy's title, but
having received South's bonds, he obtained 'from his executor
the bond of Searcy ; struck out the assignment to South ; gave
up his bonds to his executor; shortly after which, he commenced
the suit in the Bourbon court, and obtained the decree referred
to in the bill. They charge Chiles with fraud in the whole transaction ; pray that their answer may be taken as a cross bill against
Chiles; that he be compelled to restore the bonds of South ; or
that they may have such decree against him as their case may
require,. and their contract with him cancelled. They deny the
plaintiffs' rights to'rents and profits in case of recovery : but if
they lose the land, pray a just compensation for their lasting and
valuable improvements; and then set up a contract between
Thomas Boone and a certain.Boone Engles, in 1822, in pursuance of which, the present suit was brought by him in their names;
which they allege to be within the statutes of champerty and
maintenance, on 'which they rely, as well as on the common law,
the rules and principles of eqtiity, and the statute of limitation.
Cummins claimed by purchase from Smeltzer, which his heirs,
in their answer, aver to be fraudulent; but if it is. valid, they set
up thirty years' possession of part of the land before suit brought,.
as a'bar. Nicholas Smith, by an amended answer, refers to a
copy of Searcy's bond, With all the assignments thereon, previous
to the erasure of the assignment by George Boone to South;
"under whom all the tenants in possession, including this defendant, claim their several portions of said seve'hundred acres
of land; which assignment bears date August 6, 1792. "And if
said South, as executor of William Hoy,'had ever sold any portion of said.one thousand four hundred acres, or the moiety seven
hundred acres claimed by conplainants herein, (for this seven
VOL.. x.!-2 c

SUPREME COURT.
[Boone v. Chiles.]

hundred acres was never defined to any of the original put'
chasers previous to said assignment, which is not admitted,) this
defendant relies confidently that said assignment last mentioned
of said bond to him, said South, would enure in equity to confirm
their claim; nor could its subsequent cancellation, or the surrender of said bond, with the consent of the executor or administrator of South, affect or impair their claims. He re-exhibits the
copy of said bond, with the several assignments thereon, and
relies on time and circumstances, to show that the one from
George Boone to South was done by proper authority from
Thomas Boone."
The cause was at issue on the general replication. At the hearing, all the material facts alleged by the defendants in relation
to their purchase from and under South, their agreement with'
Chiles, the surrender of South's bonds to his executor, ind the
delivery by him to Chiles of Searcy's bond, with the assignments
thereon, were fully established by the exhibits and proofs in the
cause ; as, also, their possession, residence, and improvehments on
the land as stated in their answer. But they wholly failed in
proving that the assignment of Searcy's bond by' George Boone to
-John South, was made with the knowledge, corisent, or authority
of Thomas Boone.
South married a daughter of William Hoy, to whom he was
executor ; the agreement between Chiles, the Smiths, and
Smeltzer, was made in 1817 South's bonds were given up in the
winter of 1817,-'18, when Childs received the bond of Searcy;
the suit in the Bourbon court was commenced in January, 1818,
and is yet pending.
This suit was commenced in 1823, while the dect'ee of the
Bourbon court was iii force, 'nd before any appeal to the court
of appeals of Kentucky.: 'it was before this court in 1834., on a
certificate of division -from-the circuit court of Kentucky, on ,the
question whether they had'jurisdiction of the cause. It was then
decided that-it had-jurisdiction ; that the heirs of Hoy 'vere not
necessary parties, except for the purpose of obtaining the legal
title if it remainbd ir thmn ; that a decree might be made without
them, as .t parties pr6perly before, the court; that the heirs of

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Boone v. Chiles.]

George Boone were not neeessarily defendants, and no proof
need be made respecting them. 8. Pet. 535, 7. All questions of
jurisdiction of parties are therefore closed.
The objectionis to the plaintiffs' recovery on the ground of the
contract between Thomas Boone andBoon Engles being within
the statutes of champerty and maintenance,. cannot be sustained
for two reasons :
1. The English statutes on this subject, which were adopted,
in Kentucky, punished the offence and declared the contract for
maintenance void between the parties, but did not direct or authorize the dismission of the suit instituted between other parties
in furtherance of such contract. Boon Engles is no party to
this suit ; and it does not concern the defendants whether it was
commenced and is conducted by his agency, or by the plaintiffs
themselves: the right of plaintiffs is not forfeited by such an
agreement, and it may be asserted against the defenldants whether
the contract with Boon Engles is valid or void. S. P. Litt. Seled
Cas. 522.
2. By the act of 1798, which was in force when this contract
was made and suit brought, no person could be prevented from
prosecuting or defending any claim to land held under the land
laws of Virginia; nor shall any suit brought to make good such
claim be considered as coming within the provisions of the common law or any statute against champerty or maintenance. 1 Maor.
and Brown, Kent Stat. 282, 5. These statutes were riot revived'
till .1824.
The first question of fact which arises, is in what right the
Smiths and Smeltzer first entered upon the lard purchased from
South. The amended answer of Nicholas Smith, junior, is explicit on this point ; stating that all the tenants in possession, ineluding himself, claim under South, by the assignment of George
Boone to him. Though this answer is not evidence against the
other defendants, yet, as they do not deny notice of the assignment to Thomas Boone,-before their purchase, and in their answer pray for a restitution of South's bonds, there is good reason to believe the statements of Smith, especially in connexion'
with the proofs in the cause.

SUPREME COURT.
[Boone v. Chiles.)

Barbara Smeltzer, thl widow of Peter, testifies that he settled on the land in 1791 ; South camie down and marked out the
four hundred acres; that it was held under South, who claimed
under the boaid from Searcy, assigned by Hoy to George Boone.
That at the time they first settled, South represented to Smeltzer that he had traded for that bond, they were soon after informed that he had not got the bond, but soon after obtained it
from George Boone; that Smeltzer soon afterwards informed
George Boone of what had been done, who appeared well
pIased,
William Johnson testifies that Smeltzer purchased from South,
and began to improve in 1786. L. Eastin states that he took possession' in 1789.. It is also testified by William Boone, that
South had sold before he got.the bond from George Boone'; and
the evidence of Mrs. Smeltzer is strongly corroborated by Benjamin Mills, esquire, to whom some of the Smiths and Smeltzers
made a professional application relative to the chain of title between South and Hoy. He found no authority to George Boone
to assign the bond to South, which was the only claim, or color
of claim, he had to the land; hence and from his knowledge of
South's character, he concluded he had sold without claim, and
brought no suit for them. Joseph Steele testifies to the declaration of George Boone, that South was in treaty with him for the
bond, for some time before the assignment was made; and that
Smeltzer -was informed previous to his purchase, that the land
belonged to Thomas Boone. No objection having been made
on the hearingto the deposition of Steele in relation to the
declarations of Boone, they are competent evidence ; and in connexion with that of the other witnesses, fully support the testimony of Mrs. Smeltzer, and the amended answer of Smith. We
must, therefore, consider Smeltzer as .having purchased from
South, his right under the-bond of Searcyr, and the several assignments down to South, with notice thereof. Smith's amended
answer is conclusive, that he so purchased the two hundred acres
in 1797, by the assignment of South's bond. In his deposition he
also states, that he 'soon afterwards purchased from, South -sixty
or seventy acres, in addition, of which he took possession, and

J.ANUARY TERM 1836.

221-

[Boone v. Chiles.]

has ever since held, under the same claim ; that he lent South
three hundred dollars, which was to go in part payment of the
land, but finding South had no title, he recovered it back by suit.
In 1817 the parties stood thus : 'Smeltzer had been in possession, under a claim of title by Searcy's bond and assignments for
twenty-six years, of four hundred acres. Smith had held z0ssession of the two hundred acres nineteen years, which, added
to the possession of Pope and Swope from 1794, made twentythree, and of the sixty or seventy acres for about eighteen years,
wfien they gave up South's bonds, and agreed to purchase from
Chiles, who claimed the legal title of Hoy. During this time,
Thomas Boone had neither affirmed or disaffirmed the 'sale by
South, made no entry on, the land, gave any notice to Smith or
Smeltzer, instituted no suit, or made any effort to obtain the legal
title from Hoy's heirs ; though his right was then the same as
now made out, and had been vested in him for thirty-six years.
He made George Boone his agent in 1787; yet, for thirty year'
he appears to have been wholly inactive, in asserting or endeavoring to complete the title. The agreement with Ilezekiah
Boone in 1802, seems to have been the on!y positive assertion
of,a right in the land made by Thomas Boone. When the present suit was commenced, Smeltzer, and those under him; had'
. been in possession thirty-two years; Smith twenty-five'years of
the two hundred acres, and twenty-one of the sixty or seventy
acres ; and the equity of Boone arose forty-two years before.
From this state of facts, it is perfectly clear, that,if Smiths and
Smeltzer can be considered as claimants in their own right, adverse to the title of Thnmas Boone, the lapse of time alone is a
complete bar to-.any equitable relief: the rules of equity as'to
the effect of time in favor of possession, are t68 well settled to
be stated'or doubted'. 2 Jac. and Walker 138, &c., 9 Wh. 497.
10 Wh. 168. 3 Pet. 52. 6 Pet. 66. 5 Pet 491. 7 J. t. 122. 10
WVh. 150 74. 9 Pet.-416.
Thomas Boone's only standing in a court of equity, is by consideriig these defendants'as hiA trustees, by their purchase under South or Chiles,,or both. As neither of -them sold .by any
lawful authority from him, he is not bound by, and may repu-

-SUPREME COURT.
[Boone v. Chiles.]

diate thei' acts; the consequence of which, would be a bar of
his claim or, these defendants holding adversely. But as South
assumed the right to sell the interest of Thomas Boote, in virtue of the assignment fiom George Boone, as his attorney in
fact, and Chiles acted'throughout all his proceedings, under the
agreement signed by George Boone in the same capacity, which
was an express recognition of the original right of Thomas
Boone ; he may waive the defect in the power of attorney, ratify
the acts of his agent, and elect to consider the purchasers from
South and Chiles as holding through and under him. When the
purchasers from them discovered that neither South or Chiles
had any right in the land, they too had a right of election to hold
under the title which they intended to purchase ; under which
they had taken possession of the land, and held it till the discovery of the fraud : or to disclaim the purchase, renounce all
rights consequent upon it, and remain in possession as claimants
adverse to the title under which they entered.
It is unnecessary to decide on the effect of such disclaimer,
had it been made before the purchase from Chiles, or the filing
the bill. We cannot find in the evidence or pleadings, that
Thomas Boone ever made any election, as to considering these
defendants holding under or adverse to him : but it is very clear
that they originally purchased, entered, and held under his title;
and it'does not appear that they ever assumed an attitude of direct
hostility to it. We have come to the conclusion, that we must
now consider themi as holding by their original claim, so far as
to authorize the plaintiffs to make them their trustees, in virtue
of their purchase ffrin South, and ratify the agreement of Chiles.
There is no other way in which the plaintiff can esoape from
the consequences of the staleness of his equity, coupled.with the
long possession of the defendants, than by considering them as
friendly purchasers and possessors under them. The plaintiffs
put themselves out of-ceurt, by setting up the purchase and possession of defendants as ad.verse.to their equity :. for they then
would have no protection against the lapse of time, which they
have neither explained or accounted for; 17 V. 88, 9, 96. 1 J.
and W. 62, 3, and note. I J. C. 47, 8. 3 J.C. 586. 1 J.C.

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Boone v. Chiles.]

854. 5 J. C. 187, 8. 3 J. C. 218, and all bills in equity which
seek to disturb long possessions, deserve the utmost discourageinent; 1 Atk. 467, 1 J. and W. 62.
The plaintiffs must, therefore, make their claim on the defendants, as their trustees, by direct contract, or by implication
from the purchase under their title ; in either case, the lapse of
time effects them. They cannot enforce the execution of an
express voluntary trust, after its known'disavowal for such time,
and under such circumstances as would make an adverse posses-.
sion a bar; 3 Pet. 52. 7 J. C. 122. 2 Seh. and Lef. 607, 36, 8.
If a purchaser is made by implication an involuntary trustee for
the vendor, so as to be affected by his equity, it must be pursued
in-a reasonable time; 4 J. C. 316. 3 J. C. 216. 17. 4 B. C.
136, 8. 1 Cox 28, 17. V.. 96, 160.
Though time does not bar a direct trust as between trustee and
and cestui que trust, till it is disavowed.; yet, where a constructive trust is made out in equity, time protects the trustee, though
his conduct was originally fraudulent, and his purchase would
have been repudiated for fraud. 4 B. C. 136. 17 V. 97. 1 B.
C. 554. So where a party takes possession in his own right, and
was prima facie the owner, and is turned into a trustee by matter
of evidence merely, 3 J. C. 216. And where one intending to pur.chase the entire interest in the land, took a conveyance without
words of limitation to his. heirs, passing only an estate for life,
the lapse of fourteen years, after the expiration of the life estate,
was a protection to the heirs of the p.urchaser; 5 J. C. 185, 6.
What that reasonable time is, within which a constructive
trust can- be enforced, depends on the circumstances of the case ;
but there can be few cases where it can be done, after. twenty
years' peaceable possession, by the person who claims in his own
right, but whose acts have made him a trustee by implication.
His possession entitles him to at least the same protection as that
*of a direct trustee, who, to the plaintiffs' knowledge, disavows
the trust, and holds adversely ; as to whom the time runs from
the disavowal, 3 Pet. 52, because his possession is thenceforth
adverse. The possession of land is rotice of a claim to it by the
possessor, Sugden Vend. 753, 4 ; if not taken and held by con-

SUPREME COURT.
[Boone v. Chiles.]

tract or purchase, it is from its 'inception, adverse to all the
world, and in twenty years, bars the owner in law and equity;
8 Cr. 250. 4 Wh. 221. 5 Pet. 354. A purchaser in possession
by a contract to sell, is in law a trespasser; but in equity he is the
owner of the estate, having taken possession under the contract,
and the vendor is in the situation of an equitable mortgagor, 15
V. 138. If the entry was by purchase, and the purchaser claims
the land in fee, he is not a trustee ; his title, though derivative
from, and consistent with the original title of the plaintiffs, is a
present claim in exclusion of, and adverse to it. A vendee in
fee, derives his title from the vendor.; but his title, though derivative, is adverse to that of the vendor : he enters and holds
for himself. Such was the doctrine of this court in Blight's lessee v. Rochester, 4 Pet. 506, 7. In that case the court said,
"The vendee acquires the property for himself, and his faith is
not pledged to maintain the title of the vendor."
"The only controversy which ought to arise, respects the
payment of the purchase money, how far the vendee is bound to
this, by law, or by the obligations of good faith; is a question depending on all the circumstances of the case.
"If'the vendor has actually made a conveyance, his title is
extinguished in law as well as equity; if he has sold, but has not
conveyed, his contract, of sale binds him to convey, unless it be
conditional.; if, after such a contract, he brings an ejeetment; he
violates his own contract, unless the condition be broken by the
vendee, and if it be, the vendor ought to show it." " If defendant claims under a sale from plaintiff, and plaintiff himself is
compelled to assert that he does; then the plaintiffs themselves
assert a title against.this contract -Unless they show that it was
conditional, and that the condition is broken, they cannot, in
the very act of disregarding it themselves, insist that it binds the
defendant. in good faith, to adknowledge a title which had no
real existence. Upon reason, then, we should think, that thedefendant in this case, under all the circumstances, is at liberty
to controvert the title of the plaintiff." 7 Wh. 548, 50.
In .applying these principles to the case before us, it is very
clear that neither the purchase from-South or Chiles, is aiby

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Boone v. Chiles.]

equitable estoppelto the defendant's.. controverting the title of
Boone; when he disaffirms and violates the contract of purchase,
by seeking to-turn them out of possession. He cannot make
them constructive trustees by their purchase, and then be permitted to disavow the purchase; without subjecting himself to
the consequences of delaying the prosecution of'his right. As
trustees by implication, in equity, they may claim the benefit of
the lapse of time ; if he considers them as purchasers from him, or
by'a title derived from him, he can have no hold upon their conscience, to surrender him the possession, if they are willing to pay
the purchase money. Whether they purchased from him, or from
another, who assumed to sell by his authority and in his right,
matters not; if they claim by his title, and thus become his
trustees by his affirmance of the sale, the law of equity compels
him to assert his rights in a reasonable time. When he does so,
the execution of the trust will be enforced ; but it will be enforced on both parties according to the terms of the purchase,and the trust which equity raises on it by implication. Equity
makes the vendor without deed, a trustee to the vendee, for the
conveyance of the title ; the vendee is a trustee for the paymint
of the purchase money, and the performance of the terms of the
purchase. But a vendee is. in no sense the trustee of the vendor, as to the possession of the property sold ; the vendee claims
*and holds it in his own right, for his own benefit, subject to no
right of the vendor, save 'the terms which the contract imposes;
his possession is, therefore, adverse as to the property, but
friendly as to the performance of the conditions of purchase.
In virtue of his legal title, the vendor has a legal right of possession, but equity will not permit him to assert it, unless the
vendee has violated the contract : he will be enjoined if the
vendee performs it. It is very certain, that a sale of the legal
title by deed, creates no legal estoppel, by which a pu chaser is
prevented from contesting the title of the vendor, or the title of
any person from whom the vendor derived title, 7 Wh. 547, &c.
It is equally certain-that the sale of anequitable title by bond,
or other contract, cannot have a contrary effect in equity; which
VOL. x.-2 D

SUPREME COURT.
[Boone v Chiles.]

decides according to the equum el bonum of each case. In thiv.
case, Boone. comes into court to obtain possession -under an
equitable title only; he is barred by time, unless he can make
the efendants his trustees at the institution of the suit; he
charges them with no fraud, and nothing is averred or proved
/ against them to so affect their consciende, as to give a court of
equit .:urisdiction. He is thus compelled to rest on their purchase of his title from South and Chiles, making them constrctive
trustees; which, on the pleadings and evidence, we are of opinion
he may do. There is, then, a trust between them, but it is that
trust which, in equity, results from the contract of purchase.
Boone is a trustee for. such title as the defendants purchased, and
were entitled to receive; they are trustees for the purchase
money they agreed to pay for it. Boone avers they bought his
title, which, we think, is made -out. He, then, is the cestui que
trust as to the money, and they for his title.
To divest'this trust of all mutuality, would be subversive of
every rule of equity ; it will never award a surrender of the
posse -ion oit land by a purchaser of an equitable title, but on a
violation of the condition of purchase, clearly proved by
clearplaintiff.
"the
He is without remedy at law in this case; compelled to come into equity, he must do it; he sets up a trust in
the defendants for his use : all he can ask is its execution by payment of the purchase money : if he has a decree for that, justice
is done to him; and nothing can be more just than to decree
that he shall perform the act in consideration of which he obtains
relief. If he comes into court to turn them out, on the ground
that defendants have purchased a title which must be traced up
to him, in virtue of the contract of purchase ; he asserts a title
against this contract when he denies- them the benefit of the
purchase: and in the language of this'court in Blight v. Rochester, the plaintiffs cannot, in the very act of disregarding it
themselves, insist that it binds the defendants, in good faith, to
acknowledge the title. The defendants may contest it, when set
up to defeat the purchase in this case in equity, as it was done in
that at law. This court did not then think their decision to be

JANUARY TERM 1836.
LBoone v. Chiles.].

at variance with the decisions of the courts of Kentucky ; nor do
we think that we now, inany way, interfere with them.
They have held that the possession of the purchaser from the
plaintiff without deed, is friendly to the plaintiff; and stops the
running of the statute of limitations, 2 Bibb 506. But that a
vendee by deed, may, at law, contest the title of the person under
whom he bought; though a vendee by executory contract cannot,
if'he is in possession under, and looks to the vendor for the completion of his title : in the first case he holds adversely, itn the second not. 3 Littell 135, 6. So, if he purchases from thepatentee,
and holds his bond for the title, 5 Litt. 318, a defendant caannot,
in ejectment, set up an outstanding title in a third person, if he
purchased from.plaintiff without deed., 6 Litt. .444.: nor can a
tenant or one who purchases from him, contest the title of the
landlord. 4 Bibb 33 ; 2 Marshall 243.
These decisions are, unquestionably, correct ; but the principle on which they are founded, is very difterent from that which
the plaintiffs' counsel deduce from them : they admit that possession, under a deed conveying a legal title, is adverse, and that
a defendant so holding may deny the "title of his vendor in a suit
.at law. The contract of purchase, then, is no estoppel, though by
the most solemn instrument known to the law. The same principle seems "closely applicable, by analogy, to a suit in equity, in
which the plaintiff rests on an equitable title only, which has been
sold to the defendant, as the foundation of a decree awarding possession of the land purchased; the proceeding is analogous to an
ejectment; the process of executing such a decree is the same
in Kentucky, by an habere facias. It is difficult to perceive any
sound reason why the same analogy should not be observed in
the proceedings previous to the decree: if the defendant, a vendee of the legal title by deed, can, at law, contest the title of his
vendor. who is plaintiff; why may not the vendee of an equitable
title, by bond or other executory contract, enjoy the same right
in a court of equity ? We are clearly of opinion that the defendants in this case had such right, and that there is nothing in the
evidence before us which could have deprived them of it, had
theyrested their case upon their adverse possession alone : but

SUPREME COURT.
[Boone v. Chiles.]

the admissions of Smith in his amendec answer, the proofs of
the cause as to Smeltzer, together with the joint answer of themselves and Baylor, place them in a different position.
As to them, we are perfectly satisfied that their possession was
a perfect protection against the equity of Thomas Boone, when
this suit was instituted ; but we think that his equitable right to
the purchase money agreed to be paid to Chiles, has been
saved by their answer and the evidence in the case; our
only difficulty has been, whether we can, on the pleadings, make
such a decree as, in our opinion, comports with the justice and
equity of the case.' The specific prayers of the bill are, that such
of the defendants as hold the title, convey to the plaintiff the
tract described by the deed under the decree to Chiles; neither
Smiths, Smeltzer, or Baylor hold this title, or claim under the decree or deed from the commissioner to Chiles; this part of the
prayer cannot, therefore, be granted. The next is an account
for rents and profits ; this can be done as to Chiles, :but cannot
as to the others, on our views of the case. The general prayeris, such other and further relief as the plaintiffs' case may require.
This is a broad prayer, on which such.relief may be granted as
is not inconsistent with the bill or the specific prayers. 8 Pet. 586.
This case is one of an undoubted equitable title to the 700 acres
of land, hhd it been pursued in time ; but under the circumstances
of the case it is narrowed dowvn to a claim for the purchase money
of the land, held by the defendants under. the purchases from
So!,th -and Chiles, at the price stipulated in their agreement
with the latter. This we think is required by the case of the
plaintiffs, as it appears on the whole record, without placing
the defendants in any position more injurious to themselves than
their answer would authorize. They pray for a restoration of'
South's bonds, and the rescision of the contract made with Chiles,
as the means of enabling them to obtain a decree in their favor.
" But should, under all the circumstances of the case, it be their
misfortune to lose the land, they claim a just compensation for
their lasting and valuable improvements; under such rules and
regulations, according to law and equity, as their case may require
and justice demand."
To restore South's bonds and annul the

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Boone v. Chiles.]

contract with Chiles, would not release them from their trust to
Boone for the purchase money agreed to be paid to South. The,
record does not inform us what was the price at which South
sold the 600 acres; but if sold at the rate at which Smith bought
the 60 or 70 acres, it -would, with the interest, exceed the price
agreed to be paid to Chiles. Besides, the restoration of South's
bond at the time of their answer, and by a decree of the circuit
court, would have bound them to pay the purchase money with
interest. In such case the lapse of time would be no bar. If, by our
decree, these defendants hold the lands on the terms stipulated
with Chiles, they have the same benefit of their contract with him,
as if it had been consummated by a conveyance of the legal title of
Hoy, and the equitable title of Thomas Boone ; a position much
more favorable to them, than they would be placed in by their
prayer for the restoration of South's bonds, or for mere compention for improvements. It is not to be doubted, that they would have
been content with the quieting of their possession on paying for
the land, on the terms agreed on with Chiles in 1817, on which
they can now hold them, consistently with the law of the case.
Though neither of the parties have prayed for the specific relief which we think they are entitled to; we are of opinion that
all have, in substance, submitted their case to our consideration,
according to the rules and principles of equity : willing to abide
such decree .as we shallthink will do justice between them.
This, in our opinion, will be done by giving to both the benefits
of the contract with Chiles, which, under all the circumstances
of the case, created by construction and implication in equity, a
mutual trust; which is executed by one party conveying his title,
and the other by paying the purchase money.
It remains only to consider the case of Cummins, who pur-

chased from Smeltzer, part of the 400 acres purchased by him
from South. We can perceive no equitable ground of discrimination between tJiis and the other tenants ; the answer of the heir
of Cummins adniits the purchase from Smeltzer, but makes the
same allegation of fraud against him as he did against Chiles.
Yet, like the others, Cummins continued to hold, and his heir
still hqlds the land so. purchased,'without, as appears by the re-

SUPREME COURT
[Boone v. Chiles.]

cord, having paid any thing for it: like them, too, the heir prays
for a dismission of the bill, but in these words: "And hence to
be dismissed with her costs, &c., and such other orders as the
court shall deem necessary to the equity of her case." This
could not have been intended, nor can it be considered as a peremptory prayer for dismission, as she would, in such case, hold
the land without paying for it ; there would be no remaining
equity in her case, on which the court could make an order : it
must, ther-efore, he considered as a submission to such decree as
the court should deem conformable to the equity of the case.
This, in our opinion, requires that this defendant should be placed
in the same situation as the other defendants, who claim under
or by the purchase from South ; they all purchased only an equitable title, and must stand in ihe place of those from whom they
purchased ; each is a trustee by implication, affected by the same
mutual trust in equity.
Having thus disposed of all the contending claims between the
plaintiffs and the defendants, in this very complicated case, acpording to their respective equities between them as contending
parties ; we aie to consider of the decree to be made between
the defendants. It is within the undoubted powers of a court of
*equity to decree between co-defendants on evidence between
plaintiffs and defendants, 2 Selb. I Lef. 712. Its exercise is also
within .the general prayer of the defendants in:their respective
answers; and is called for by every consideration, that reqdires
some termination to long', inveterate, and entangled litigation.
With the whole case before us, and on the fullest investigation
of thp rights of all the parties, we do order, adjudge, and decree
the'rein as follows:
That so much of the decree of the circuit court as directs the
defendant Chiles to convey to the complainants, all his right,
title, and interest to and in the premises named in the bill, and
to deliver up to the clerk of -said court, to be cancelled, the con,
tract between said Chiles, Hezekiah and George Boone, therein
referred to ; also, so much thereof as orders Jones and Fanny
Hoy to convey all their interest in the premises, derived from William Hoy ; and so much of said decree as directs, that if the con-

JANUARY TERM 1836.

231

[Boone v. Chiles.)

veyances so directed shall not be made as ordered, the clerk of
said circuit court shall convey to the complainants the interest of
the said parties, as by said court decreed ; and so much of said
decree as orders the defendant Chiles to pay the costs of the suit,
with the exception there stated ; also, so much of said decree as
declares that the claim of the complainants is not to be prejudiced by the decree aforesaid, as against any of the heirs of William Hoy, who are not parties to this suit ; and so much of said
decree as directs the bill of complainants to be dismissed as to
the land held by John Evalt within the bounds of Flournoy's
patent ; be and the same is hereby affirmed in all things, excepting that part- of said decree which excepts from the deed
to be executed by William Chiles, the interest which he holds
under a deed from Green Clay, as to which the said decree is
reversed and annulled.
And as to the rest and residue olf said decree of the circuit
court, the same is hereby'reversed and annulled ; and this court,
proceeding -o render such decree as the said circuit court ought
to have rendered, dcoth further order, adjudge, and decreeThat the said William do, and shall, within six months from
this time, convey to. the complainants (in the manner specified
in said decree as to the land therein directed to be conveyed by
him-) all his right, title, and interest, held or claimed under the
deed or conveyance from Green Clay to said Chiles.
That the said Chiles do, and shall, within the same time, assign, transfer, and make over any. contract or agreement made
between him and any other persons, in relation to the land in
controversy in this suit, whereby any right accrued to, or was
promised or agreed to be in him, to any part of said land, or any
money arising or to arise from any sale or sales thereof; and
in like manner to transfer, assign, and make over all such rights
to said complainants.
That the said William Chiles do also account to and with the
complainants, for any money he may at any time have received
from any person or persons, on or by virtue of the sale of any
part or parts thereol ; also that he account to and with the complainants for any rents or profits which he -may have enjoyed or

SUPREME COURT.
[Boone v. Chiles.]

received in or from said land embraced in the patent to Hoy,
under the direction of said court.
That a surveyor, to be appointed by said court, do, under their
directions, ascertain the quantity of land claimed by the several
defendants in this suit, (except William Chiles,) on the western
side of the survey in Searcy's right, designated on the plat of the
surveyor, dated 2d October 1831, by the letters A, D, T, U, J,
K, M, E, and A; excluding therefrom all the lands within the
lines of Flournoy's patent, and return a plat. thereof to said
court.
That the bill of the complainants be dismissed, as to all the
land claimed by any defendant, east of, the lines 'on said plat,
designated by letters E, M, K, J, U, T ; that their bill be dismissed, as to all the land purchased by Nicholas Smith from
Jones, lying within the line of Flournoy's patent, marked on
the surveyor's plat, in page 66 of the printed record, by the letters L, M, N, 0.
That possession be awarded to the complainants, by the several defendants, of the land claimed or held by them, respectively,
within the lines first herein referred to, as marked in the plat,
dated 2d October 1831, and without Flournoy's line, which has
not been purchased from or held under South or Chiles, or by any
person or persons claiming or hol ding under them, or either of
them, in virtue of any contract or agreement with them or either,
by or under whose right, claim, or possession any of said defendants claim or hold any part or parts of said land.
That the surveyor, so to be appointed, do and shall ascertain
the quantity of land, now claimed or held by any of the defendants,, mediately or immediately, by, from, through, or under
South or Chiles, or in virtue of- any right asserted or claimed
by them, or either, as aforesaid ; designating especially the quantity claimed or held by each defendant, or each class of claimants, under any one person, accordingly as they may hold or claim
in severalty, or in common between themselves; and return separate plats thereof to said circuit court. Whereupon, such of the
complainants as are under no legal disability, shall, within such
time as the said court shall direct, make, execute, and in dii

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Boone v. Chiles.]

form of law acknowledge and deliver to the said defendants
respectively, deeds of general warranty in fee, for the land described in such plats, on said defendants complying with this decree, as hereinafter mentioned : and that such of the complainants as may at such time be. under any legal disability to make
such deeds, shall, within six months from the removal of such
disability, make, execute, acknowledge, and deliver such deeds
to the defendants, their heirs, and assigns; or that the said circuit- court; as so authorized by law, may order and direct that
such deed or deeds shall be made by such commissioner, as they
•mayappoint to execute the same for and on behalf of the complainants last mentioned.
That the said defendants severally, or each class thereof as
aforesaid for themselves jointly, as they may claim or hold, do
pay to the complainants for the land conveyed by them, at the
rate and on the terms stated in the joint answer of the defendants, to wit, ten dollars for each and every of the four hundred
acres purchased by Peter Smeltzer, and-the two hundred acres
purchased by Nicholas Smith from John South;. to be paid in
three equal annual instalments, counting from the agreement
with Chiles, assumed to be 1st December 1817.
That the heirs of Nicholas Smith, or the defendants who claim
or'hold under him or his heirs, do pay to the complainants at the
same rate, and on the same terms, for the sixty or seventy acresafterwards purchased by said Smith'from South ; which said complainants shall convey as aforesaid to the defendant or defendants
in possession thereof under Nicholas Smith.
That the amount so to be paid by each defendant, or class of
defendants, bear interest from the time the instalments were
payable respectively, till the time directed by the circuit court,
at which the complainants are to make the deeds as aforesaid;
each defendant or class to be liable only for the sum due -by
themselves, and not for any sum due by other defendants.
That, when the said deeds shall be executed and delivered,
the sum due by each defendant or class, principal and interest,
shall be paid as follows: one-third whereof to be paid in one
year from the delivery of the deed, one-third in two years, and
vorL. x.-2 E

SUPREME COURT.
[Boone v. Chiles.]

one-third in three years, with interest from the time they are
payable.
That the several sums so payable be paid into said court, or to
such person or- persons as said court by their decree shall order
and. direct; and on such terms and conditions as to them shall
seem just and equitable.
That the defendants severally and respectively do; Under the
direction of said court, account to and with each other for any
moneys received by one fiom the other, or any person or persons under whom they claim or have claimed, for or on account
of any purchase-money of any part or parts of the land, now or
at any time held or claimed by them or any of them, under or in
virtue of any purchase under the title of Searcy.
That such of the heirs of William Hoy as have answered'the
bill of complainants, do convey to them, in the manner directed in
the decree of the circuit court as to Jones and Fanny Hoy, all
their right, title, and interest in the land contained within the
line of the .plat tirst herein refel-red to, being the western part of
the survey aforesaid, in right of Searcy. In default of making
such conveyance, as is herein directed to be made, by any of the
defendants in this case ; then this court doth further order and
*direct, that a conveyance of the right and title, interest and claim,
in and to the land in controversy, held or claimed by such defendants; be conveyed to- the complainants, by a commissioner,:
to be by the said circuit court appointed to make such conveyance
according to law.
That the bill of complainants be dismissed, a. to ihp heirs of
George Boone, Hezekiah Boone, and the hei'rs of South, with
costs.
_And it isfurther ordered,-adjudged, and decreed, that all'the
equity of the complainants, as to any person or.persons not parties to this suit, or as to any matter or thing, not herein decreed
on, shall be and is hereby reserved to the said complainants, any
thing contained in this decree notwithstanding; and that this
cause be remanded to the circuit court for the district of Ken.
tucky, with instructions to proceed therein according to this de
eree. and as to iustice and eouitv shall annertain

JANUARY TERM 1836.

235

[Boone'v. Chiles.J

Mr. Justice MCLEAN : Under the peculiar circumstances of
this case,.1 am constrained to state, as succinctly as I can, the
i'easons why I dissent from the opinion just delivered.
The facts out of which this controversy arose, are as follows:
Reuben Searcy being,entitled to a-settlement and pre-emption
of fourteen hundred acres of land, in the settlement of Kentucky,
on the Waters of Licking, employed John Martin for one-half
the land to perfect the title.. On the 24th September 1781, for
a valuable consideration, Searcy sold seven hundred acres of
this land to William Iloy ; executed his bond for a title; and,'at
'the same time, assigned to Hoy the plat and certificate of survey,
which enabled him, in 1785, to obtain a patent for the whole
tract in his own name.
But before the emanation of the patent, in the month of Deceinber 1781, William Hoy assigned Searey's bond to George
Boone, and bound himself, his heirs, &c.i as sureties, &c. And
on the .30th April. 1783, George Boone assigned the bond to
Thomas Boone, whose heirs prosecute this suit:
Thomas Boone, being a citizen of Pennsylvania, gave a power
of attorney to George Boone, of Kentucky, dated 1st October
1787, which authorized him, in the name of Thomas Boone, and
for his use, '"to ask, demand, sue fo, and recover of and from
Major William Hoy, of Kentucky settlement, a deed or. other
lawful conveyance valid in law, for seven hundred acres of land
in or near the waters of Hinkson and Stoner, &c. ; and the attorney was authorized to appoint, &c., and to- do every thing
necessary in the premises," &c.
On the 6th August 1792, George Boone, as the attorney in
fact of Thomas Boone, assigned Searcy's bond to John Soutli,.
the executor of William Hoy, who bound himself to cause Hoy's
heirs to convey, so soon as they should become of age, the seven
hundred acres to Boone, &c. But on the 23d December 1791,
before this assignment, South sold four hundred acres of the
land to Peter Smeltzer, . and bound himself with Walter Carr
and John Glover, in the penalty of a thousand pounds, to make
a deed fur the same, :so soon as the heirs-of William Hoy, who,.
-was then deceased, should become of age. .And on the 26th

236,

SUPREME COURT.
[Boone v. Chilcs.]

August 1794, South sold two hundred acres of the same tract to
Geotge Pope, and bound himself in the penalty of five hundredpounds, to make a deed when Hoy's heirs should all arrive at
full age. This last-bond, in thi spring of 1708, was purchased
by, and assigned to Nicholas Smith, who shortly afterwards purchased from South the residue of the tract, supposed to contain
sixty or severity acres.
On the 30th NoVember 1800, Thomas Boone made an agree*ment with his uncle, Hezekiab Boone, of the state of Tennessee, to sell to him the whole of this tract of land, for seven hundred pounds., But Hezekiah Boone and his heirs bad the
option of taking the land or not, within four years from the- time
of the contract; and the contract wasto be binding if he should
make known his determination to take the land and pay for it
witbin the four years. But there is no evidence that He-zekiah
Boone made known his determination, within the time limited,
to take the land ;or that he has, at any time, paid the whole or
any part of the consideration.
On the 30th October 1817, Hezekiah Boone,
and George
Boone as attorney for Thomas, entered into an agreement with
William Chiles, and delivered to him the papers 'they held
respecting the above land ; and Chiles was to have the free use
-of them, for the purpose of coercing the title to the land, if it
could be recovered ; and if not, he was to obtain the value. And
Chiles was to use diligence in recovering the money or obtaining the title ; and the proceeds of the suit, whether land or money, were to be divided between Chiles and Hezekiah Boone.
Shortly after this contract was entered into, Chiles, having
obtained from George Boone the bond given him by South,
which bound him to convey the land to Thomas Boone, so soon
as Hoy's heirs could he compelled to make adeed ; called on
Peter Smeltzer's heirs, who held the bond of South, Carr, and
Glover, and representing to them that he was the rightful owier
of the land, obtained the bond; and, also, he obtained the bond
for the two hundred acres given by South to Pope, and by him'
assigned to Smith; which bonds he delivered to Benjamin
South., the executor of John South, who was deceased ; together

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Boone v. Chiles.]

with the bond given to George Boone, by the deceased; and
obtained from the executor, possession of Searry's bond and the
assignments. The assignment of George Boone, as the attorney
of Thomas, was then erased ; and the contract between South
and the tenants was cancelled. And the purchasers under
South, purchased the land from Chiles, and bound themselves
to pay for it ten dollars per acre.
At the August term of the Bourbon circuit court, in the year
eighteen hundred and eighteen, Chiles brought an action of
ejectment, in the name of Hoy's heirs, to recover possession of
the land. The tenants having been served with notice, appeared
and defended the suit; but a verdict was found against them,
and a judgment was entered on the verdict.
On the 26th January 1818, Chiles filed a bill in the Bourbon
circuit court in the name of himself, Hezekiah Boone, George
Boone, and Thomas Boone, )gainst the heirs of Hoy for a title.
In this bill, Chiles stated that William Hoy and John Sappington, and Parihenia his wife, late Parthenia Hoy, had conveyed.
their interest to him. And he sets up the contract with Hezekiah Boone, as the ground for a decree in his favor, under
Searcy's bond, andt he assignments made thereon; The assignment by George Boone to South, is represented as inoperative
and void , as George Boone had no power, as the attorney of
Thomas Boone, to sell or transfer the title to the land. The
heirs of Hoy and otherS, who were made defendants, answered
the bill. And .afterwards, at August term 1821, the court de.
creed that the complainant, William Chiles, was entitled to a
specific execution of the contract fi om Hoy's heirs; and that, if
the defendants did not execute a conveyance in pursuance of
the decree, on or before a time specified, then, that Thomas P.
Smith, as commissioner, under the statute of Kentucky, should
execute it. And afterwards, on the 7th January 1822, the heirs
of Hoy not having executed a conveyance for the land, in pursuance of the decree, the deed was executed in due form by the
commissioner.
•In April 1827, this decree of the Bourbon circuit court, was
brought before the court of appeals of Kentucky, and e;-rsed,

SUPREME COURT.
[Boone v. Chiles.]

for wait of" proper parties; and the cause was remanded to the
circuit court for further proceedings.
The heirs of' Thomas Boone filed their bill in the circuit court
of the United States on the 25th January 1823, at first against
Chiles, tlezekiah Boone,-George 'Boone, and the tenants who
occupied the land ; 'and represented that the bill filed by Chiles,
in the name of Thomas Boone and others, against the heirs of
Hoy, was a. fraudulent proceeding; and as Chiles, under the
decree, was supposed to be invested with the legal title, a decree for the title was prayed against him. Aid after the reversal
of the decree of Bourbon circuit court, such of the heirs of HIoy.,
as were found within the jurisdiction of the court, were made
parties.
The -tenants answered and relied upon lapse of time, their
purchase under South, and the fraud'of Chiles, in their defence.
Chils 'also filed his answer, setting up his tile, and also Fanny
Hoy, and Jones Hoy,,the only heirs of Hoy who were made
parties to the bill, who admitted the right of the complainants.
The material parts of the answers will be noticed, more particularly, under the appropriate points which arise for consideration.
There seems to be no question as to the genuineness of
Searcy's bond, and the assignments made upon it ; but it is insisted that Searcy should have been made a party.
The bill asks no decree against Searcy. By the assignment
of the plot and certificate, he enabled William Hoy to obtain the
patent in his own name'; and this was equivalent to a convey.ance. of the land, in discharge of the bond. Hoy, therefore,
could have no demand upon Searcy, and of course the assignee
of Hoy-could have none against him. He was, therefore, not a
necessary party. The complainants, under the assignment of
Hoy, pray a divestiture, of the title from his heirs; and as between these parties, there can be no doubt of the equity of the
complainants. Indeed, the heirs of Hoy do not controvert the
right of the complainants.
In the argum edt, it was insisted, that the-seven hundred acres
claimed by the complainants, are not so specifically described in

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[ Boone v. Chiles.]

the bil, as to enable thc court to decree, in pursuance of the
prayer, a specific conveyance.
William Hoy obtained in his own niame a patent for the fourteen hundred acres;- and. it appears there is a surplus of iiore
than five hundred acres. The bond of Searcy to Hoy was for
seven hundred acres, and. Hoy was to take his first choice out of
the whole tract; and it appears that there does not remain of
the entire tract, undisposed of, or not covered by paramount
claims, more than will satisfy the above bond. And in addition
to this consideration, the heirs of Hoy may be safely decreed to
convey an undivided interest in the land, to tlhe extent of the
omplainants' rights : and, if necessary, the complainants, under
such a decree, being. tenants in common with the heirs of Hoy,
or those who hold an interest in the land, could have partition
made. Thereis no want of certainty as to the identity of the
entire tract.
As to the claim of Chiles, except under the deed of Newland
and wife, I admit that it cannot be sustained. Hezekiah Boone,
,who sold to Chiles, had no interest to transfer. His contract
with Thomas Boone was a conditional one, and the conditions
were not performed. -No part of the consideration was ever
paid, nor did Hezekiab Boone signify his determination to take
the land within the four years limited ; and failing to do this, the
contract upon its face was not to be binding.
The assent which George Boone, as attorney in fact for Thomas
Boone, gave to the contract, made between Chiles and Hezekiah Boone, was an extraordinary procedure on his part. And
it is sufficient to say,.that he had no power to sell the land, much
less to consent that Chiles and Hezekiah Boone should divide
between them the land or the money, whichever should be recovered. George Boone, as the attorney of Thomas, had power
to authorize Chiles to act as attorney or agent in endeavoring to
recover the land; but he had no power to dispose'of it in any
manner.
As Chiles, by. virtue of his contract with Hezekiah Boone, obtained conveyances of the interest of William Hoy a.d Parthenia
Sappington, wife of John Sappington, two of the heirs -or Hoy,

SUPREME COURT.
[Boone, v. Chiles.]

he must, under the circumstances, be considered s holding the
land in trust for those who have the better equity. In no sense
can Chiles be considered as a purchaser of this interest, without
notice and for a valuable consideration. But the interest of
Newland and wife, which was conveyed to him through Green
Clay, rests upon different principles. In my opinion, Chiles must
hold this interest as a purchaser from Clay, who was a purchaser from Newland and wife, without notice of the complainant's
equity.
A majority of the judges reject the right asserted under this
deed, because the allegation that Clay was a purchaser for a val.uable consideration and without notice, is not made with the re-4
quisite proceedings in the pleadings, to admit proof of the fact ;
and, also, because the deed to Green Clay conveys to him no title.
And, first. as to the allegatiors contained in the pleadings.
In his answer to the complainant's bill, Chiles states that, ' he
admits a certain Green Clay bought and received the title of John
Newland and wife ; and discovering this to be the fact, he caused
the said Green Clay to be made a party to the bill in the Bourbon circuit court, charging him to be a guilty purchaser, know,
ing of the equity arising from the bond of boy. But said Clay
put in his answer denyfng notice ; and this defendant not knowing evidence to prove notice, bought of him his share and paid
him therefor, and received his conveyance. This defendant refers to the answer of Clay in the Bourbon circuit court, as part
of this aniswer ; and this defendant insists that Clay was an innocent purchaser for a valuable consideration, without notice, till
his purchase was complete."
The answer of Clay in the Bourbon circuit court, and which
is referred to by Chiles, and made a part of his answer, is as follows: " This respondent further saith, that it is not true, that to
increase the difficulties of the complainant (Chiles,) as charged
in said bill, John Newland and wife conveyed their interest.
to the lands in controversy to this defendant, &c.; but, on the
contrar), this respondent avers that the contract he made with
John Newland and Celia his wife, was a bona fide contract, ii
good faith, for a valuable consideration paid them, without notice,

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Boone v. Chiles.]

or even a knowledge that the complainant, Chiles, had, or any
of the other complainants, any claim on said land ; but, on the
contrary, this defendant has been informed, and believes, verily,
that the claim of the complainant Chiles, is founded in fraud and
'imposition," &c.; and " as to the contract between this respondent and John Newland and wife, it is committed to record and
will speak for itself; and this respondent believes the compiainant Chiles has misrepresented the true,meaning thereof."
Although the averments in the bill, filed by Chiles on this point,
in the Bourbon circuit court, and the answer of Newland and
wife, in the present case, have no connexion with the answer
of Chiles under consideration ; yet I will refei- to them, as they
have been thought to have some influence in the case. In his
original bill filed against Clay and others; in the Bourbon circuit
court, Chiles alleges, that, " to increase the difficulty, the said
John Newland and Celia his wife have conveyed their interest
in said tract, with others, to a certain Green Clay, who your orators charge had full knowledge of your orators' claim ; and, as
they are informed and 'believe, executed a contract with said
Newland and wife when he received their conveyance, binding
himself to make good all the contracts of their ancestor; but yet
the said Green Clay refuses to convey to your orator, William
Chiles."
And Newland and wife answer to the bill in the present case,
"that Celia is a daughter of Hoy, and that if ever they had an
interest in the land mentioned in the said bills, and now in contest herein, that they have long since transferred their interest
therein by a writing amounting to a quit claim, to Green Clay ;
but they never conveyed the title, by deed, to him or any one
else."
The answer of Newland and wife cannot be read in evidence
against Chiles, a co-defendant. If this answer, in every respect,
were in accordance with the most technical forms, it could not
aid a defective averment in the answer of Chiles ; nor can its
defects, in any respect, have an unfavorable bearing on. that answer. It must rest upon its own language, equally unaffected
vo. x..-2 F

SUPREME COURT.
[Boone v. Chiles.]

by the answer of Newland and wife, and the original bill filed by
Chiles in the Bourbon circuit court.
As it regards the sufficiency of the answer of Chiles to protect'himself under the title of Clayi who is alleged to be an innocent purchaser for a valuable consideration, and without notice ; it may be remarked, that no exceptions were taken to the
answer; but a general replieiation was filed, or considered as filed.
In the case of Harris v. Ingleden, 3 Pier Williams 95, it is
said that, "notice and fraud must also be denied generally, byway of averment in the plea, otherwise the fact of notice or of
fraud will not be in issue. That, where a defendant, in his plea
of a purchase for a valuable consideration, omits to deny notice,
if the plaintiff replies to it, all the defendant has to do is to prove
his purchase ; and it is not material if the plaintiff proves notice;
for it was the plaintiff's own fault that he 'did not set down the
plea to be argued, in which case it would have been overruled."
But, independent of this consideration, what will constitute a
good plea, by Chiles, to protect this purchase under Clay ?
It must appear that the persons who made the conveyance to
Green Clay, were seised of the land ; that they conveyed by
deed to him, and for a valuable consideration, which was plid
and the deed executed, befoie notice of the complainant's equity. Mit. Pleadings 275; Hinde 180; 3 P. Williams 281 ; 1 Vern.
179.
Are not these facts found substantially in the answer of Chiles?
It sufficiently appears that Newland and wife Were seised; for
they are stated to be the heirs of Hoy, in part, to whom the land
descended, or was devised. And Chiles avers that " Clay was
an innocent purchaser, for a valuable consideration, without notice, until his purchase was complete." His purchase could not be
complete in the sense here expressed, until the consideration
was paid, and the deed executed. If this be the clear meaning
of the allegation, it must be held sufficient. But the averments
in the answer of Green Clay, are made a part of the answer of
Chiles.
It must be admitted that this answer of Clay is loosely drawn,
and without much regard to the forms of pleading. But, although

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Boone v. Chites.]

Clay speaks of his contract with Newland and wife, it is clear
that he refers to a deed of conveyance, as he states it has been
recorded ; and, to use his language, it will speak for itself. And
he avers that his purchase from Newland and wife was bona fide
for a valuable consideration, and without notice.
Now when these allegations are incorporated with those contained in the answer of Chiles; and the fact, that there was no
exception to the answer, are considered; I am inclined to think
that the allegations should be considered sufficient to protect the
title asserted. The amount of the consideration paid is not specifically stated, but the averment is general : that a valuable consideration was paid, and that before notice.
It must be admitted that the allegations in the answer of Chiles,
in relation to this purchase, are not made with technical precision ; and if exceptions had been taken to this part of the answer,
they might have been sustained. But the complainants having
failed to except, ought not now to insist, and indeed cannot, on
the same degree of strictness as to form, as if they had done so.
If this were admitted, the defendant would be taken by surprise,
and the ends of justice might be defeated. To guard against this,
the forms of pleading require exceptions to be taken to matters
set up in the defendant's answer in bar of the plaintiff's right.
If exceptions be waived, and an issue taken on the answer, the
complainants cannot object to the matter in bar, on the ground
of the insufficiency of the plea or answer. If Clay was a purchaser without notice, Chiles may shelter himself under a deed
from Clay. The estate having been innocently and fairly acquired, and for a valuable consideration, can be conveyed to a
person with notice. I Atk. 571, 2 Atk. 139, 242; 2 Eq. Cas.
685, 13 Ves. 120, Pre. in Cha. 51. That a decree was loosely
entered against Clay in the Bourbon court is of no importance.
as that decree has been annulled. If the objection as to the sufficiency of the answer of Chiles, under the circumstances, cannot now be insisted on by the complainants ; it becomes important
to examine the deed from Newland and wife to Green Clay, and
to determine the effect of that conveyance.
I will transcribe the operative words of the deed. " This in-

SUPREME COURT.
[Boone v. Chiles.)

denture, made this 23d day. of May, in the year 1814, between
John Newland and Celia his wife, of. the county of Madison, and
state of Kentucky, of the one part; and Green Clay, of the same
county and state af6resaid, of the other part, witnesseth : that the
said John Newland and.Celia his wife, for and in consideration
of the sum of one hundred dollars, to them in hand paid, the receipt whereof, &c.; have granted, bargained, and sold ; and do,
by these presents, grant, bargain, sell, and convey to the said
Green Clay, his heirs and assigns forever, all the right, title,
claim, and interest which they, the said John Newland and Celia his wife have in and to the real and personal estate of William Hoy, deceased ; and all debts, dues, and demands, rents and
profits, either in law or equity, to which they ate or shall be
entitled, as one of the heirs and legatees of the said William
Hoy, deceased; she, the said Celia Newland, wife of the said
John Newland, late Celia Hoy, being one of the children and
legatees of the said William Hoy, deceased." To this, covenants
of special warranty are added, and also of further assurances, &c.
Can any doubt exist that this deed .conveys to Green Clay
what it purported to convey to him, all the right and title, &c.
of the grantors to the real estate of William Hoy, deceased. Celia Newland, under the will of her father, received a certain
interest in her father's real estate, and this interest she conveyed by the above deed.
It is true that Newland and wife, under the will of William
Hoy, could receive nothing more than the legal title, their ancestor having, in his life-time, sold and conveyed the equitable
title. But, having the legal estate, does any one doubt that they
could convey, and did convey to Green Clay, a clear title to the
land, if he was a bona fide purchaser, without notice, and for a
valuable consideration.
That Clay was a purchaser of this description is averred, and
there are no facts in the case which disprove the averment; and,
in all such cases, the proof of notice or fraud rests with him at
whose instance the title is impeached.
The deed of Newland and wife describes with sufficient certainty the interest conveyed. It was the interest which Celia

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Boone v. Chiles.]

Newland received under the will of her father. Thil conveyance, containing all the operative words necessary to c )nvey an
estate in fee, and also describing with the requisite certainty the
interest conveyed, must be considered as an operative and valid
conveyance in the hands of Clay; who, as before stated, was a
purchaser without notice, and for a valuable consideration. I
think, therefore, that Chiles, without reference to his knowledge
of the facts or his conduct, should be considered as holding this
interest against the equity asserted by the complainants.
The counsel for the complainants insisted, that, under the decree of the Bourbon circuit court, Chiles was invested with the
legal estate in the land; and that the legal title, undei" the deed
of the commissioner, still remains in him, notwithstanding the
reversal of the decree by the court of appeals.
The decree of reversal, by the court of appeals, does not require this deed to be cancelled; nor, in my opinion, was it necessary to annul it. The deed of the commissioner is inseparably
connected with the decree ; indeed, it is a part of the decree ; and
must have the same effect as if the statute of the state had provided that a decree should operate as a conveyance.
In this respect the deed is different from a deed executed by
a sheriff on a sale on execution, or perhaps a sale under a decree
in chancery. A reversal of the judgment does not invalidate the
sheriff's deed ; but a reversal of the decree must destroy the effect of the commissioner's deed; as in no sense can he be considered as the agent of the party, but us an officer of the court,
and as acting strictly under its authority. He does not, as a purchaser under an execution, pay money on the faith of the sale.
The title passes by this deed : but if the decree, which is the authority of the commissioner, be reversed, the deed must fall
with it..
That this is the view taken of the commissioner's deed in
Kentucky, is shown by the proceedings in all case' of reversal.
The decree of Chiles was reversed, and the case was sent down
to the Bourbon chancery court, with" instructions to amend the
bill, and to have further proceedings. And I presume'the cause

SUPREME COURT.
[Boone v. Chiles.1

is still pending in that court, and Chiles is praying for a title for
the lands embraced by the commissioner's deed.
In the case of Watts et al. v. Waddle et al. 6 Peters 400, the
court say "the deed executed by the cQmmissioner in this case,
must be considered as forming a part of the proceedings in the
court of chancery ; and no greater effect can be given to it, than
if the decree itself, by statiie, was made to operate as a conveyance in Kentucky, as it does in Ohio."
The right set up by the present occupants of the land, against
that which is asserted'by the complainants, is the next point for
consideration. I shall examine this point with some minuteness.
as I cannot assent to the decision made by my biother judges.
Smeltzer, it is proved, took possession of the four hundred
acres he purchased friom South in 1791 ; and'he, or those claiming under him, have been in thie possession ever since. And it
is proved that Smith-took possession of his purchase of two hundred 'Acres in 1798.,,and the. additional. purchase of fifty acres
shortly afterwards; and he, or those claiming under him, have
held possession to this time, The first question that arises in
this, and all. similar. inquiries is, wh.ether the possession of the
occupants was adverse to the titleasserted by the complainants.If the title of the tenants was not adverse, the statute of limitations cannot operate, nor can we, -by analogy, apply the principles of the statute in the case. 'The title set up by these defendants is under South, who
claimed under anassignment of Seorcy's bond by George-Boone,
as the attorney- 6f -Thoms Boone, the ancestor of the complainants. This - assigpnm ent by George Boone was not authorized by'the power 0f attorrey under which he acted. That
power authorized'George Boone ".to ask, demand, sue for, and
recover, of and from- William Hoy, a deed or other lawful conveyance, valid in law," for the. land ; but he had no power to sell
or convey the title.. This actwas void, as to Thomas Boone.
In no respect eod1d it prejudice his right; for South, taking the
assignment, was bound-to look 'tothe authority under which it
was ade.
.Inthe case of Hawkins, Witton et al. v. Page's heirs, 4 Bibb

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Boone v. Chiles.]

138, the court of appeals say,. the only plausible objection that
can be raised to these conclusions is, that the possession of
twenty years, and upwards,.would give a legal estate to the posse.ssor under the equity, notwithstanding the legal title remained
in another. This doctrine cannot be maintained. So long as
the holder of the equity looked to the legal title-holder for the
legal estate, he must be considered as holding under him; and
the length of possession enures to the benefit of the legal estate,
as against adverse claimants, but did not give the legal estate to
the equitable possessor; as between these two, the legal titleholder and the equitable possessor, and by continuing under
these circumstances, lapse of time could be no bar, and could
not transfer the right of entry to the possessor." And. in the
case of Gay v. Maffitt, 2 Bibb 507, the court say, " where one
claims under or through the other, there shall be no adverse
possession in such case, sufficient to give a title." And again,
in the same case, page 508, " if, therefore, we consider the appellant as having no other title than that, derived from possession, and that his possession ha' been changed from an adverse,
hostile, into a friendly, possession, it follows, that the statute of
limitation does not appl" to his case." And in 5 Littell 31l, it
is laid down, that " a holding of land under a bond from the patentee, cannot be considered as adverse thereto." Other decisions in Kentucky, to the same import, might be cited, but it
is unnecessary. That the rule established in Kentucky must
govern the question under consideration, is admitted ; although
such rule be different from the general law on the subject.
It is, then, well settled in Kentucky, that a purclaser who enters under a contract, looking to the person in whom the fee is
vested for the perfection of his title, does not hold adversely to
the legal title.
The legal title to the land in dontrovei~sy was in the heirs of
Ioy ; of course the possession or title of the tenants could not
be adverse to them. And is it not equally clear that, -as the
tenants set up a title under an assignment of Thomas Boonie, and
claim through him, their title is not adverse to his ; and consequently, their possession is not adverse. Their title, as asserted,

. 248

SUPREME COURT.
[Boone v. Chiles.]

can be of no validity unless the equity of Thomas Boone, from
Hoy, shall be established. They claim under and through
Thomas Boone, and not in hostility to him. Their possession,
therefore,' so far as it rests upon a claim of title, is in no sense
hostile to the legal interests of Hoy's heirs, nor the equitable
interests of the heirs of Thomas Boone.
Under such circumstances, no length of time would enable
the tenants, as against Hoy's heirs, to set up the statute of limitation. So fully is this rule established in Kentucky, that when
Chiles prosecuted an action of ejectment in the name of Hoy's
heirs, in the Bourbon circuit court, against the tenants, they did
not rely on the statute.
1 do not insist that the parties in this case are so situated that
lapse of time can have no effect upon their rights ; but it is clear
that, on tie part of the tenants, the statute of limitations cannot
be set up as a bar in an action at law ; and by consequence, it
cannot be applied, by analogy, as a bar in equity. The rule of
the statute, in chancery, is adopted on the ground that equity follows the law ; and where the law fails, the rule in equity must
also fail.
A court of chancery is said to act on its own rules, in regard to stale demands, and independent of the statute. It will
refuse to give relief where a party has long slept upon his
rights; and where the possession of the property claimed has
been held in good faith, without disturbance, and has greatly increased in value. But in such a case, the court will give due
weight to all the circumstances connected with the claim of title
or possession, and the effect of the lapse of time may be obviated, by a great variety of facts and circumstances; which, however, would be unavailable to the complainants, where the
statute would bar.
| Will now examine the equity of the tenants in regard to the
lapse of time.
It will be observed, that they set up a purchase under John
Sduth, the executor o William Hoy, in 1791, when South had
no pretence or color of title to the land, exceptas having married one of the legatees of Hoy; and thiough her he could claim

ANUARY TERM 1836.
[Boone v. Chiles.1

only a naked legal title, the equity having been transferrcd by
Hoy in his lifetime.
And afterwards, in 1792, when South obtained the assignment
of Searcy's bond, by George Boone, as the attorney of Thomas
Boone, the assignment was inoperative for want of power in the
attorney. This "assignment, upon its face, would direct every
person who claimed any interest under it, to the authority by
which George Boone acted.
Had Smeltzer and Smith, the first Furchasers, notice of this
defect in the assignment to South ?
In his deposition, Nicholas Smith says " that he bought a bond
of John South, in 1798, for two hundred acres of land, out of the
tract in controversy ; and that, shortly after, he purchased from
South the residue of the tract, supposed to be sixty or seventy
acres, after satisfying Smeltzer's purchase of four hundred acres.
And, at the same time, he lent South three hundred dollars,
which sum was to go as payment for the land ; aid if that sum
overrun, he was to pay back, and if it fell short, the witness was
to pay the balance. He took possession of the land, and
has ever since held'it, under this purchase ; but he afterwards
found out that Southhad no right to sell the land, and brought
suit against him, and -recovered back the three hundred dollars."
The time that Smith ascertained, that South had no right to
sell the land' does not appear; but the facts stated authorize the
inference that this knowledge was acquired by Smith not long
subsequent to the purchase. Some time before 1809, it appears
South was very much embarrassed, and in that year was confined
as a lunatic. The suit of Smith must have been brought before
South's extreme embarrassment, as the money was recovered
from him, and in all probability the money was repaid to Smith
within five or, at most, six years of his purchase.
Barbara Smeltzer, the wife of Peter Smeltzer, who purchased
the four hundred acre tract, states in her deposition, that her
husband made the purchase of South, &c., who claimed the same
under the bond from Reuben Searcy to William Hoy, and assigned by Hoy to George Boone ; that, at the time they first settled, John South represented to her husband that he had traded
VOL. X.-2 G

SUPREME COURT.
[Boone v. Chilec,]

tor the said bond, but that they afterwards found cut he had not
got the bond, but soon afterwards he obtained'it from George
Boone
John Walton, a witness, states that he acted as one of the commissioners to divide the.land, agreeably-to the will of Peter
Smeltzer, deceased, about the year 1805 or 1806; and that there
was conversation at that time, among the heirs of Smeltzer, about
South and Hoy's bond," &c.
Joseph Steele, a witness, states that he was informed by
George Boone, that Smeltzer had notice, before he purchased the
land from South, that it belonged to. Thomas Boone. This
statement seems not to have been objected to in the circuit
court.
James Robinson, a witness, being present when the deposition of Barbara Smeltzer was taken, was astonished to finid that
a person of her age should describe so accurately Searcy's bond
to Hoy, as to its date, the land called for, &c.
Benjamin Mills, an attorney at'law; who was sworn as a wiiness, states, in 1826, that many years before, Peter Smith, and
either John or Jacob Smeltzer, and perhaps Nicholas Smith, applied to him to bring suit for the legal title of the land, and
especially for that part described in the bond signed by South,
Carr, and Glover; but on examining the title, although the witness
declines making some statements on ac'ount of professional confidence, yet he says, substantially, he considered the title wholly
defective, under the assignment of South ; and, for that reason.,
declined bringing suit. As the witness left the bar for the
bench,.in 1818, and as he speak3 of the bond of South, Carr,
and Glover, which was given up in 1817 to Chiles; this conversation must have been prior to that time, and, probably, was
several years before it.
But in 1817, Sinith, and the heirs of Smeltzer, surrendered to
Chiles the bonds they held on South for the land, and bought
the land of Chiles, agreeing to pay him fol. it ten dollars per
acre.
Chiles having possession of the bonds of South, who was then
deceased5 rescinded the contract with his executor, gave up

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Boone v. Chiles.]

South's bonds for the land, and received from the executor
Searcy's bond, after the erasure of the assignment by George
Boone, as the attorney of Thomas, to South.
Judge Mills, while at the bar, brought an action of ejectment
in the name of Hoy's heirs, to recover possession of this land ;
but it was dismissed for want of prosecution. Afterwards, in the
year 1817, he brought a second ejectment, which was served on
the 4enants; against whom a final judgment was obtained by the
verdict of a jury, defence being made in 1818.
To open a judgment by default in this cause, Nicholas Smith
and Jacob Smeltzer swore, that " they had no expectation that
William Chiles would have prosecuted the suit tojudgment against
them, as they had purchased fiom him the title of Hoy's heirs
for the sum of six thousand dollars, nine hundred dollars of which
sum they had paid to him, and that the balance was not then due.
They stated they held Chiles's bond to convey to them Hoy's
title, and that, when the compromise was made, the suit was not.
to be prosecuted, &c.
In 1820 or 1821, George W. Baylor purchased the interest of
Peter Smeltzer's devisees in the tract of land in controversy
and on the 25th of August 182.1, received a conveyance for one
third of the tract from Anna Maria Smeltzer and her husband.
The consideration named in the deed is nine hundred dollars,
and the grantors only convey their right, title, and interest, and
warrant against themselves and all persons claiming under them.
And for the residue of the tract, Baylor holds the bonds of John
and Jacob S meltzer; but what consideration was paid or contracted to be paid does not appear. George W. Baylor having died
shortly after the commencement of this suit, it has been carried
on against his heirs who are made parties. The heirs of Cummings, whb are defendants; seem not to be entitled to any part
of this land. It then appears that the heirs and assignees of
Nicholas Smith, and the heirs of Baylor, are the tenants, and the
only persons who rely upon the lapse of time and the length of
possession to protect them in this case.
James Hutchins, a witness, swears that George W. Baylor
took possession of the land in dispute some time in April, 1823.

SUPREME COURT.
[Boone v. Chiks.]

That he does not remember whether he heard Baylor say any
thing, particularly about Boone's claim, before he moved to the
land. But, the witness states, after Boone Engles' return from
Pennsylvania, in 1822, he heard him tell Baylor that he was authorized to investigate Boone's claim, and that he would have
the land.
And William Burr, a witness, says.: " before Engles.went to
Pennsylvania, he heard him and Baylor have some conversation
about the cla'im of Thomas Boone to the land now in contest.
The deponent has not a distinct recollection of what'was said,
but is under the impression Baylor spoke of an intention to purchase Smeltzer's land, and that Engles advised him not to do it,
because the land belonged to Thomas Boone. He also thinks
that Baylor and Engles had some conversation about forming a
partnership in the investigation of Boone's claim." "1 He says,
after Engles' return from Pennsylvania, and before Baylor had
removed to the land, Engles and he had different conversations
respecting Boone's title."
These are the leading facts on which the heirs of Baylor and
Smith claim protection of a court of chancery from the lapse of
time, and the equitable circumstances of the case.
In the first place, they claim unde' the same title as the complainants, and not in hostility to it.
South had no right under the assignment of George Boone ; and
there is no evidence that the purchase money was paid by Smeltzer or his heirs to South ; and the amount paid by Nicholas Smith
was sued for and recovered from South, after it was known that
he had no title to the land. And this must have been within a
very few years after the purchase of Smith, not exceeding ten
years, and perhaps less than five.
That Smeltzer had notice of the want of title in South, is certain, from the depositions of his widow Barbara Smeltzer, and
Joseph Steele. She states that, when South sold to themthe
land he had not the bond of Searcy, but that he afterwards obtained it. With accuracy she detailed the substance of the bond,
its date, and the assignnents. Smeltzer, therefore,.as she states,
was well acquainted with the fraud of South, in selling the land

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Boone v. Chiles.]

before he had a title, and this should have put Smeltzer on his
guard. He was, no doubt, as well acquainted with Searcy's bond
as his wife, and the assignment of George Boone was evidence
upon its face, that unless he acted under a power from Thomas
Boone, the assignment was void.
An action of ejectment was commenced, in the name of Hoy's
heirs, to recover possession of the land, which was afterwards
discontinued. And afterwards, in 1817, when Chiles, under his
purchase of Hezekiah Boone, and having the sanction of George
Boone, the attorney of Thomas Boone, to investigate the title,
the tenants surrendered the bonds they had on South, although
security was given in-the one held by Smeltzer'sheirs to Chiles,
who cancelled the contract with South, and sold the land to the
tenants. It is true, this contract of Chiles is represented to have,
been obtained by fraud ; but 'he payment made under it, and the
use imade of it to set aside a judgment by default in the ejectment suit, show that they had wholly abandoned the claim of
title under South.
And, as it regards Baylor's heirs, they were in possession only
one, or two years before the commencement of this suit; and their
ancestor purchased nothing more than the right of Anna Maria
Smeltzer, one of the legatees of Peter Sineltzer, with only a
special warranty, and of John and Jacob Smeltzer, the other
legatees of the land in dispute; and the inference is authorized,
that the same interest, and no more, was to be conveyed under
the title bonds, and this with a full knowledge of'the complainant's equity, and of the total defect of title in the legatees. Can
a right thus acquired and asserted be protected by lapse of time ?
Does it come within that salutary rule, which has )een adopted to'
preserve the peace of society, and protect rights long acquired
and enjoyed without interruption, against stale demands ? Did not
Baylor purchase the interests of Smeltzer's legatees on speculation ? Knowing the title of the legatees to be defective, or rather
to have no foundation on which it could be sustained, did he not
purchase it ; and, under such circumstances, how can the lapse of
time aid him ? If this principle might have been invoked by
Smeltzei's legatees, is the same right transferred to Baylor, who

SUPREME COURT.
[Boone v. Chiles.]

purchases the interest of the legatees, without a general warranty, and for a valuable consideration ? This appears to me o have
been a purchase that does not draw after it the equitable consid.
era'ions which were connected with the title of Smeltzer's iega-.
tees; and if it did, I -am not prepared, under the circumstances,
to say that it is entitled to the protection of a court of chancery.
It appears to me that the purqhase was made with more reference to the value of the improvements than the title of the tenants; and under the expectation that, if. the land should- be lost,
compensation for the improvements would- reimburse tlhe purchase money..
And as it regards the title of those who claim under Nicholas
Smith, it seems not to require a much more favorable consideration. -The money proved to have been paid by Smith, on the
purchase from South, was recovered, back. again ; and the heirs
abandoned the claim under South, and purchased from Chiles.
He purchased fifty acres of Jones, which is covered by Flournoy's
patent ; and he is protected, under the statute of limitations, to
this extent.
I have looked through the cases decided in this country and
in England, and I can find no. instance where lapse of time, under circumstances analogous to those which belong to this case,
has been held sufficient to protect the possession against a clear
equitable title.
The presumptions in favor of the tenants, which might arise
from lapse of time, ar'e repelled by the facts and circumstances
of the case. These must always be regarded as controlling mere
lapse of time ; and they are such, in this case, as to convince me
t'at to protect the rights set up by the tenants would sanction a
inew rule, and one that would be dangerous to bona fide claimants. I am, therefore, of the opinion that time, which cures many
imperfections'in a meritorious title, and often authorizes the presumption of title where none, in fact, exists; cannot protectihe
tenants in this case.
That the complainants should be decreed to release their interest to the tenants, under the contract they made with Chiles,
-is, to -me, a most.extraordinary result of the controversy. I can-

JANUARY TFPRM 1836.

255.

[Boone v. Chiles.]

not give my sanction to the principles on which it rests. If the
decree enforoes this contract, then must lapse of time be abandoned ; for the contract bears date onlyfive or six years before
this suit was instituted : and on what -principles such a decree
can, be made; in the relation which the parties bear to each other
in the suit, and in the present state of the pleadings, I am unable
to comprehend.
This contract is declared by the tenadnts to be fraudulent ; and
they have refused, by their whole proceedings in this suit, to be
bound by it. They have invoked the aid of a -court of chancery
.to annul and set aside this contract; and, I believe, have taken
steps to recover back from Chiles the money they had paid him
on it.
But this contract is not only declared by the tenants to be
fraudulent and void: the complainants also denounce it as fraudulent. It finds favor in the eyes of no one but Chiles. And
yet, this contract, thus treated by the complainants and defendants, and made by Chiles without a color of right, is made the
basis of a decree of this court, which takes from the- complainants, and gives to the defendants, a large estate. Chiles, though
the fraudulent instrument in making. this -contract, is not permitted to enjoy any advantages under it.
If the complainants had adopted this contract;' if they, in any.
manner, had sanctioned the contract, by treating Chiles as their
agent in selling the land ; there would be some ground to decree
a specific execution of it. But the complainants have not sanctioned the conduct of Chiles in making this contract; and so far
from seeking any thing under it, have declared k to be fraudulent and void : and yet, in despite of them, it is made the rule
by which their rights are decided. I am altogether opposed to
the decree on this ground.
As the decree of the circuit court is reversed, it cannot be
necessary to say any thing respecting the decree which was
made respecting the rents and profits. It will be fuatnd, however, that Hoy had eight heirs; two of whom, Fanny Hoy and
Jones Hoy, were defendants in the suit ; and that Chiles had received conveyances from two of the heirs, besides Newland and

256

SUPREME COURT.
[Boone v. Chiles.]

wife. An'd as Chiles was decreed to convey his interest, and
the two heirs of Hoy, who were defendants, were decreed to
convey, also, under this decree ; the complainants became vested
with four-eighths of the land, and he was made accountable to
pay for that proportion of the. improvements, and in the same
propoition was held entitled to the rents.
Elizabeth South, whose deed is in the record, is not a party
to the suit, and the court could not act on her interest.

