JANUARY TERM 1836.

125

THE UNITED STATES, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR V. THE HEIRS AND
REPRESENTATIVES OF JOSEPH

H.

HAWKINS) DECEASED.

Althougch a-venire de novo is frequently awarded by a court of error upon a bill of
exceptions, to enable parties to amend, and though amendments may, in tie sund
discretion of the court, upon a new trial, be permitted, the venire de novo is, in no
instance, any thing more than an order for a new trial in a cause in which the verdict or judgment is erroneous in matter of law; and is never "equivalent to s new
suit." No statute of the United States alters the law in this regard.
It has never been the practice of the circuit courts, in suits under the law of the 3d
March 1797, to deny to defendants a claim for credits against the United States,
because they had not been presented and disallowed before the commencement of
the suit.. The practice, to allow a claim for credits, after the suit has been commcnced,.is sustained by the spirit and letter of the third and fourth sections of the
statute. When adefendant seeks to obtain a continuance to prevent judgment
from beiig granted to the United States at the return term of the cause, he is required, by the third section, to make oath or affirmation that he is equitably entitled
to credits which had been, previous to the commencement of the suit, submitted to
the consideration of the accounting officers of the treasury department, an4 rejected;
but the fourth section, which directs that n4 claim for a credit shall be admitted
*upon trial, but such as shall appear to havelbeep presented to the accounting officers of the (reasury, and by them disallowe( , the words "previous to the comm"encement of the suit" are omitted; and further prov'ision is made for a claim for credits,
at the time of trial, v hen it shall be proved to the satisfaction of the court, that the
defendant is in possession of vouchers not before in his power to procure, and that
he was prevented from exhibiting a claim for such credits, at the treasury, by absence from the United States, or some unavoidable accident. Thus showing it to
be an inflexible requirement of the-statute, that the defendant shall have had his
claim for credits disallowed, before he can prevent the United States from getting
judgment at the return term, by a continuance of the cause; and that he may have
them submitted to a jury at the trial, if they have' been refused by the accounting
officers of the treasury, after the'suit has been instituted; or if he can bring himself
within either of the liberal provisions of the fourth section of the act of the 3d March
1797.
If a navy agent, without a receipt from a purser, upon a requisition for money, volunteers .to pay demands which it is ,the purser's duty to pay, or shall pay the orders
of a purser, and shall permit the receipts for the sums paid by him to get into the
purser's possession, by whom they are exhibited at the treasury, and allowed in the
final settlement of his account, without the purser's haring given credit to the navy
agent, or to the government, for the amount; it assumes the character of a private
transaction between the purser and the navy agent, or becomes a debt due from the
purser, as an individual; to the navy agent, as a private person: and the latter cannot claim the amount at the treasury as an allowance in the settlenment of his account, nor as a legal or eq itable credit in a suit against him by the United States.

SUPREME COURT.
The statute prevents delinquent officers from delaying the United States by frivolous
pretences, from obtaining judgment at the return term; gives to the defendant, the full
benefit of having every credit to which he may suppose himself equitably entitled,
and which has been disallowed, passed upon by ajury; and guards the district attorney from surprise, by informing him, through the treasury department, before the
tinr of trial, of the credits whiclthave been claimed, and the reasons for the rejection of them; All the provisions of this statute, regulating the institution of suits
and t
,overy by'judgment of unpaid balances from delinquent officers, are as
munch a- part or their bonds, as if. they were recited in them; and officers and their
Securities are, in contennlsinn-of law, appized of-thbost provisions, when their
bonds axe execiate.

IN error to the district court of the United States, from the eastern district of Louisiana.
This case was before the court at January term 1832, on a writ
of error, to the district court of Louisiana, prosecuted by Nathaniel Cox, Nathaniel and James Dick, plaintiffs in error, v.
the United States, 6 Peters's Reports, 172. Nathaniel Cox,
and John Dick, the father of Nathaniel and James Dick, were
the sureties of Joseph H. Hawkins, in his official bond to the
United States,' as navy agent of the United States, at New Orleans. In the district court, a judgment was given in favor of the
United States, and the same was reversed for an informality in
entering th6 same.
On the former writ of error, certain questions were raised as
to the admission of evidence offered in the district court, on the
part of the defendants, and rejected by the court. This court,
sustained the decision of the district judge, 6 Peters's Rep.
200.
The judgment of the district court of Louisiana having been
reversed, the cause went back to that court on the following
mandate:
"Whereas lately -in the district court of the United States for
the eastern district of Louisiana before you, in a cause wherein
the United States of America were plaintiff, and the heirs and
representatives of J. H. Hawkins, the heirs and representatives
of John.Dick and Nathaniel Cox, were defendants, the judgment
of the- said district court was in the following words, viz.
"'T-be court -having maturely considered the motion in &rest
of ruqmefit, now order that judgment be entered up as- of the

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[The United States v. HIawkins.]

15th instant, against the estate of John Dick and Nathaniel Cox,
jointly and severally, for the sum of 20,000 dollars, with six per
centum interest frowi the 2d day of January 1830, until paid, and
costs of suit, and that judgment be entered up against Nathaniel
Dick and James Dick, for the sum of 10,006 dollars each, with
six per centum interest from the 2d day of January 1830, until
paid, and the costs.' As by the inspection of the transcript of the
record of the said district court, which'was brought into the supreme court of the United States by virtue of a writ of error,
agreeably to the act of congress in such case made and provided,
fully and at large appears.
"And whereas in the present term of January, in the year of
our Lord one thousand eight hundred and thirty-two, the said
cause came on to be heard before the said supreme court, on the
said transcript of th- record, and was argued by counsel, on coqsideration whereof, it is adjudged and ordered by this court, that
the judgment of the said district court in this cause be, and the
some is hereby, reversed ; and that this cause be, and the same
is hereby, remanded to the said district court, with-direction to
award a venire facias de novo.
" You, therefore, are hereby commanded,, that such farther
proceedings be had in said cause, as according-to right, justice,
and the laws of the United States ought to be had, the said writ
of error notwithstanding."
Further proceedings took place in the cause in the district court,
which are stated at large in the opitxion of the court. A verdict
was rendere, against the United States ; and exceptions being
taken to the char-ge.of the court, the United States prosecuted
this writ of error.
The case was argued by Mr. Butler, attorney-gencral, for the
United States. No counsel appeared for the defendants in error.
He stated that, on the former trial in the district court, the
allegation was, that certain sums had been paid at the treasury
which had not been allowed in favor of the defendant, Nathaniel Cox. These claims were not the matters-of defence on
the second trial; but it was alleged that balances were due to
Cox, on a separate transaction with the United States, and

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. Hawkins.]

which were the subject of a separate suit between the defendant,
Cox, and the United States. The original claim on the defendant was for upwards $15,000, Which was reduced by
payments into the treasury to $2,870 62. It is admitted 'that
Nathaniel Cox is entitled to a further credit of $1,320, although
the same was not regularly established in the district court; and
this sum may be allowed to him as an off-set to the judgment to
which, on this record, the United States are entitled. To admit
this sum to his credit, in the present state of the case, would reduce the.claim of the United'States below the amount required to
sustain the jurisdiction of the court; and it is now acknowledged,
that this credit shall be. ultimately, allowed ; but. in such a form
as that this court can retain and decide the case
The United States object to the items of credit claimed by
Cox, the defendant in error; not only on account of the irregularity of the proceedings, but also because they arenbt credits
to which he was in any manner entitled.
On the last trial in the district court, these credits were objected to. They had not been claimed at the treasury prior to
the institution of the suit; but before the second trial they were
exhibited at the treasury, and they were refused. At this trial,
after the mandate, they were admitted; the district court considering the case as standing in the situation of a new suit.
These credit3, now objected to, and which were improperly
allowed to go to the jury, were claimed in a supplemental answer filed after the mandate on the 10th of March 1834. They
were. the sum of $5,840 54, paid by reason of certain checks,
&c. issued by purser Wilkinson, and disallowed at the treasury:
and also the sum of $1,433 "12, also paid under the'same circumstances. Mr. Cox had been appointed navy agent, after the
death of Hawkins.
It was con'tended, that the objections to these claims of credit
were well taken by the district attorney of Louisiana, in the bills
of exceptions, on two grounds:
1. It did not appear that the documents to sustain them had
been presented to the proper officers of the treasury before the
commencement of this suit by petition, filed October 19, 1823.
"2.That it appeared that those sums had been
already allowed
to purser Wilkinson.

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[The United States v. Hawkins.]

Notwithstanding these objections, the district judge allowed
.them to be read in evidence, as competent testimony. The
court stated to the jury, that although the credits had been al,
lowed to purser Wilkinson, it Was no reason they should not be
allowed to Mr. Cox, if the jury thought they were equitably
due.
Mr. Justice WAYNE delivered the opinion of the Court.
On the 19th October, 1825, the United States instituted a
suit in the district court of the United States for the eastern district of Louisiana, according to the practice of that 8tate, upon
a bond of Joseph H. Hawkins, as principal, afi Nathaniel Cox
and John Dick, as sureties in the penalty of twenty thousand
dollars, with the condition ' that if Joseph H. Hawkins shall
regularly account, when thereto required, for all public moneys
received by him, from time to time, and for all public property
committed to his care, with such person or persons, officer or
officers of the government of the United States, as shall be duly
authorized to settle and adjust his accounts, and shall, moreover,
pay over, as may be directed, any sum or sums that may be found
due to the United States upon any such settlement or settlements, and shall faithfully discharge, in every respect, the trust reposed in. him, then the said obligation to be void and of no effect,
otherwise to remain in full force and virtue ;' and assigned as a
breach of the condition of the bond, that the said Hawkins did
not-in his lifetime regularly account for all the -public moneys
received by him, &c., but did at his death remain indebted
to the United States in the sum of fifteen thousand five hundred
and fifty-three dollard and eighteen cents, for moneys received
by him as navy agent, from the United States, since the date of
the bond. Hawkins being dead, and without legal representatives, and Dick, one of his securities, being also dead at the
time of the institution of the suit, but having legal representatives; the latter with Cox, the other surety of Hawkins, appeared according to the practice of Louisiana, and put in separate
answers and defences.
A verdict was found for the United* States, and judgment
entered up against the estate,.of John Dick and Nathaniel
VOL. X.-B

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. I1awking.1

Cox, jointly and severally, for the sum of twenty thousand dol.lars;, and, also, against Nathaniel Dick and James Dick, the
representatives of John Dick, for the sum of ten thousand dollars
each. The defendants then paid into court the sum of twelve
thousand six hundred and eighty-two dollars and forty-six cents,
on account of the judgment, and sued out separate writs of error
to this court; and the judgment was roversed, as may be seen by
the report of the case, in 6 Peters 172, with directions to award
a venire facias de novo. Upon the return of the mandate, the
defendant Cox petitioned the district court to be allowed to file
a supplemental answer, in which he pleads, as a set-off, debts alleged to be due to him by the United States ; one in his own right
of SI ,320 27, balance of account in his capacity of United States
giavy agent, settled at the treasury' department, as appears by a
certified copy filed in another suit in said court; and two other
sums alleged to be due to him by the United States, for payments
made by him, in his capacity of navy agent, on account of the
United States, upon the checks and vouchers of one Joseph B.
Wilkinson, then a purser of the United States on the Orleans
station; which he states had been presented and disallowed at
the treasury department. Against the defendant's application, to
file the supplemental answer, the district attorney of the United
States objected,' that the sums placed as set-off were foregn to
the matters in controversy between the parties ;' and, secondly,
'that the sums cannot be admitted as a credit at the trial of the
cause, under the third and fourth sections of the act of Congress
of the 3d March, 1797, inasmuch as the same were not, previous
to the commencement of this suit, submitted to the accounting
officers of the treasury, and rejected.' The objections of the district attorney were overruled by the court, leave' was given to
file the answer ; the court expressing its opinion, I that the mandate of the supreme court ordering a new trial, authorized the
plea to be filed, and that the defendant might eauitably be Allowed, under the said act of congress, to establish, by proof, the
sums claimed to be due by way of credit.'
Distinguishing between the judicial discretion of the court to
permit a supplemental answer Yo be filed, or to a defendant upon
a venire facias de novo to amend, to enable him to avail himself

JANUA;RY TERM 1836.
[The United States v. Hawkins.J

of a proper defence, which he had not pleaded on the first trial,
we Will here merely remark, that the objections of the district
attorney should have prevailed against the allowance of it in this
instance, for reasons which will be found to apply when we slif
discuss the exceptions takbn by the district attorney to the judgment, by which this cause has gain been brought to the supreme,
court by writ of error.
Upon the supplemental answer, however, the cause was carried to trial. The district attorney objected to the introduction
of certain bills, orders, or documents offered by the defendant a
evidence to sustain the set-off in his supplemental answer, on the
ground that they were not ' sustainedby bills of"receipts showing:
the sane were paid to persons in public service, or for furnishing materials or articles for public service, or that they had been
approved by the commanding naval offiecr at New Orleans.'
'That it does not appear that the documents, bills, or orders had
been presented to the proper accounting officers and disallowed
previous to the commencement of this suit.
'l'hat.it appeared froin the document that the sunis mentioncd in it and claimed as a set-off by Cox, the defendant, had been,
already allowed to purser Wilkinson.'
T"-hAe court- overruled, the objections, permitted the bill and
voucher's to be -read -to-the jury, expressing its opinion that they
were ' competent testim6ny to be weighed by the jury, and that
the mandate of the sup!eine court requiring the mckw to be sent
back with directions to issue a venire de novo, might prope-ly.
be regarded as equivalent to a new suit within the statute.'
Without going into the doetrine in what cases, or for what,
causes, a venire de novo will be directed, it is sufficient for us
to say, though it is frequently awarded by a court of error upon
a bill of exceptions, to enable parties to amend, -and though
amendments may, in the sound discretion of the court, upon a
iww trial, be permitted, the venire de novo is, in no instance,

any thing more than an order for a new trial in a cause in which
f.he verdict or judgment is erroneous in matter of law ; and' is
never "equivalent to a new suit." No statute of the United
States alters the law in this regard.
In regard to so much of the exception which objects to the in-

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. Hawkins.]

troduction of the bills, orders, or documents claimed as credits in
the defendants' supplemental answer-because they had not been
presented to the proper accounting officers, and disallowed previous to the tommencement of the suit-we remark: it has never
been the practice of the circuit courts, in suits-under the law of the
3d March 1797, to deny to defendants a claim for cred-its against
the United States, because they had not been presented and disallowed before the commencement of the suit. The practice
to allow a claim for credits, after the suit has been commenced,
is sustained by the spirit and letter of the third and fourth sections of the statute. When a defendant seeks to obtain a continuance to prevent judgment from being granted to the United
Statesat the return term of. the cause, he is required, by the
third section, to make oath or affirmation that he is equitably
entitled to credits which had been, pevious to the commencement
oJ the suit, submitted to the consideration of the accounting officers of the treasury department, and rejected; but the fourth
section, which directs that no claim for a credit shall be admitted
upon trial, but such as shall appear to have been presented to
the accounting officers of the treasury, and by them disallowed.,
the words, "previous to the commencement of the suit" are
omitted ; and further provision is made for a claim for credits, at
the time of trial, when it shall be proved to the satisfaction of
the court, that the defendant is in. possession of vouchers not before in his power to Procure, and that he was prevented from
exhibiting a claim for such credits, at the treasury, by absence
from the United States, or some unavoidable accident. Thus
showing it to be an inflexible requirement of thetatute, that
the defendant shall have had. his claim for credits disallowed
before he can prevent the United States from getting judgment
at the return term, by a con tinuance of the cause ; and that le
may have them'submitted- to a jury at the trial, if they have been.
refused by the accounting officers of the treasury after the suit
has been.instituted, or if he can. bring himself within either of
the liberal provisions of the fourth section of the act of 3d March
1797. Such was the construction given by this court to the third
and fourth sections of that act, in. the case of the United States.
v., Giles and others, 9 Cranch, 212 ; and Mr. Justice Story, giving.

JANUARY TERM 1836.

133

[The United States v. Hawkins.]

the opinion of the court, in the case of the United States v. Wilkins, 6 Wheaton, 135,' says: the fourth section "prohibits no
claim for any credits which have been disallowed at the treasury,
from being given in evidence by the defendant at the time of
trial." The statute prevents delinquent officers from delaying
the United States by frivolous pretences from obtaining judgient at the return term, gives to the-defendant the full benefit
of having every credit to which he may suppose himself equitably
entitled, and which has been disallowed,-passed upon by a jury ;
and guards the district attorney from surprise, by informing him,
through the treasury department, before the time of trial, of the
credits which havebeen claimed, and the reasons for the rejec-tion of them. All the'provisions of this statute regulating the institution-of suits and the recovery by judgment of unpaid balances
fiom delinquent officers, are as much a part of their bonds as if
they were recited in them; and officers and their securities are,
in contemplation of law, apprized of those provisions, when their
bonds are executed.. Whilst our conclusion, therefore, is, that
a defendant is not prevented from claiming the benefit of credits
which may not have been disallowed before the commencement
of the suit, we do not mean to say, that the credits claimed by
the defendant, in his supplemental answer, were proper evidence
in this cause.
We will now consider the objections to the credits claimeLby
the defendant Cox, for payments said to have been made by him
on the bills and orders of purscr Wilkinson, which were allowed
to be given as evideuce to the jury ; the court giving its opinion
"that, although the credits had been allowed to Wilkinson, it
was no reason they should not be allowed to Cox, if the jury
thought they were equitably due." This misdirection of the court
arose from its misunderstanding the official relations between
pursers and navy agents, and their separate accountability to the
Government. Both are dis bursing officers, whose accounts are
separately kept at the treasury department; it being the duty of
the navy agent, when he has funds of the Government on hand,
.to comply with the reqtlisitions of the pursers for money ; the
latter being sanctioned by the naval officer commanding the sta-"
tion. The purser's receipt to the navy agent upon such requi-

SUPREME COURT.
[The United SLates v. Hawkins.]

sition is his voucher for a credit at the treasury; and the sum
received by the purser is disbursed by him in paying officers and
seamen, and for such supplies for the service as his commanding
officer may sanction. The receipts taken by the purF-r are his
vouchers for credits ;igainst the sun received by him from the
navy agent ; but before the purser's accounts can be settled at
the treasury, the original receipts are deposited by- him in that
department. It follows then that credits which have been allowed to the purser cannot be afterwards claimed by the navy agent,
without giving to hin a credit twice for the same sum ; the
amount of the receipts in detail, and the purser's requisition upon
him in gr6ss. Nor can the navy agent ever make a claim for
such credits, without having first violated his instructions for the
disbursement of government funds.
If"a navy agent, without a receipt from a purser upon a requisition for money,V6lunters to pay demands which it is the purser's
duty to pay, or shall pay. the orders -of .purser, and shall permit
the receipts for the sums paid by him to- get into te purser's
possession, by whom they are exhibited at the treasury and. allowed in the final settlement of his account, without the purser'shaving given credit to the navy agent or to the Government for
the amount, it assumes the character of a private transaction between the purser and the navy agent, or becomes a debt due
fromithe purser, as an individual, to the navy agent, as a private
person ; and the latter cannot claim the amount at the treasury as
an allowance in the settlement of his account, nor as a legal oi
equitable credit in a suit against him by the United States. Such
is the attitude- of the defendant Cox in tfie claim which lie makes
for credits on account of' the orders, of' purser Wilkinson, and
such would have been the relations between him, purser Wilkinson, and the g6vernment, if he had sustained, by proof, the allegations in his supplemental answer, that he had paid, in his
character of navy agent, and for the use of the United States,
the bills and orders of purser Wilkinson. But there is no such
proof. The document which the -court permitted to be given as
evidence, and the oily evidence'upon which the defendant relies,shows that the credits claimed by him, had been allowed to putser Wilkinson on the settlement of his account; and it does not

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[The United States v. Hawkins.]

show any connexion between them entitling the defendant, upon
any equitable-ground, to credit for any one of the items in that
account. If he has any claim upon the conscience of purser Wilkinson, it must rest upon both having disregarded those regulations for the disbursement of public funds, which, when observed,
are a protection to each, and which only preserve that responsibility between the officer and the government required by the
public interest. In such a case, the defendant must look to purser'Wilkinson. The government is- not to be involved in the
consequences to either, resulting from an irregular disbursement
ofits funds. If, as may have been the case in this instance, purser Wilkinson, to oblige a discharged mariner, or one to whom
his pay was due, when there were no funds on hand to pay him;
assumed, by his duebill or order, the amount due, to enable the
mariner to have it cashed by any one who would make him the
advance, having taken a receipt afficially for the sum due by the
government; and the navy agent afterwards took up the purser's
duebill ; he did it for the honor-of the purser, and must look to
him for repayment. He has not the purser's receipt for the money, but his duebill, which, -if
even igned by the commanding
officer of the station, and bearing -uponits face a connexion-with
the original transaction between .the seaman and the service,
would not give to the navy agent a legal or equitable claim for a
credit at the treasury, because the purser cannot be debited there
for any money foe which he has.not given his receipt in due form.
The judgment of the court below is reversed, and the cause
sent back with directions to issue a venire de novo.
It is admitted by the attorney-general, that the defendant may
be credited with the sum of thirteen hundred and twenty dollars
and seventy-seven cents ;lhatsum being really due to him from
the treasury: the balance claimed by the government being
fifteen hundred and fifty dollars and forty-five cents.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record from the district court of the United States for the eastern
district-of Louisiana, and was argued by counsel: on consideration whereof, it is ordered and adjudged by this court, that the

136

SUPREME COURT.
[The United States v. Hawkins.]

judgment of the said district court in this cause be, and the same
is, hereby reversed : and that this cause be, and the same is,
hereby remanded to the said district court, witb directions to
award a venire facias de novo.

