-SUPREME COURT.

OWINOS ET AL. V.

LEssEE OF

TiERNAN.

The rule of court for docketing and dismissing causes, passed at January term 1835,
has never been applied to any cases, where, before the motion was made, the cause
has been actually placed on the docket. Under such circumstances, on a motion to
docket, when a motion to dismiss was contemporaneously made, the cause was
allowed to be docketed; the usual bond for the clerk's fees being given. Time was

given to the plaintiff in error to give the bond.

ERROR to the circuit court of the United for the district of'
Kentucky.
A motion was made by Mr. Underwood for the defendant
in error, to docket and dismiss this suit, according to the
amerded rule of the court passed at tht last term, for want
of its being duly entered on the docket; the writ of error having been sued out before the last January term, and the suit
not having been docketed at that term, or at the present term. A
motion was contemporaneously made by Mr. Crittenden for the
plaintiff in error to docket the suit now, the record having been
returned to the clerk's office in October last, and the docketing
of it having been delaydd on account of the usual bond for the
clerk's fees not having been given by the plaintiff in error.
Mr. Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the Court,
to the following effect: The rule of the court for docketing
and dismissing causes, has never been applied to any cases,
where, before the motion was made, the cause had been actually placed on the docket. In the present case, the motion
to'dismiss, and the motion to docket the cause, are contemporaneous. :The court are of opinion that, under such circumstances,
'the.1iotion to docket the cause oughit to be allowed ; upon the
usual bond for the clerk's fees being given. For this purpose
time will be given to the plaintiff in error, (as it is asked), until
the Yst day of'March next. If by that time no bond is given,
the cause Will then be dismissed according the motion of the defendant in-error.

