572

SUPREME COURT.

SAMUEL DICKINS, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR V. WILLIAM M.

BEAL.

Bills of exchange were drawn and dated at Hazelwood, Madison county, Tennessee,
by D. & T., on W. & F. at New -Orleans, the drawers having no funds in the
hands of the drawees, or authority from them to draw such bills. W. & F. had
written to the cashier of the branch Bank of the United States at Nashville, informing him that D. & T. were authorized to make negotiations, by bills on
them, with the bank, and that such bills would be honoured; but the bills on which
this suit was instituted by the holder and indorser, residing in New Orleans, were
not negotiated with the bank. The bills were refused acceptance by W. & F.
were protested for non-acceptance on the same uay, and notice of the same was
given by the notary to the drawers and indorser by Letters put into the postoffice,
addressed to them at Hazelwood, Madison county, Tennessee; the notary, as was
testified, not knowing of any, other residence of the parties than that designated
in the caption of the bill ;-and that he had made inquiry for further information of
persons likely to know. Evidence was given to show that letters from New Orleans for Hazelwood, in Madison county, West Tennessee, were sent to Nashville,
and that from that postoffice they were sent to Spring Creek postoffice. That D.,
the drawer of the bills, and the indorser of the other, was the postmaster at Spring
creek, Madison county, Tennessee. Hazelwood was near Spring creek postoffice. It was -also testified that letters from New Orleans, for the western district
of Tennessee, come to Nashville for distribution unless there was a river mail,
in which case they would be delivered at Memphis and be distributed thence.
The letters ofW. & F. to the cashier of the branch Bank of the United States at
Nashville, were offered in evidence by the drawers of the bills, to show that they,
were entitled to regular notice of the protest of the bills.- It was held, that the circuit court properly rejected this evidence; as the letters did not apply to, and had
no connection 'with the bills which were the subject of this suit.
An established exception. to the general rule, that notice of the dishonour of a bill
must be given to the drawer, is, where he has no funds in the handa of the drawee ;
but of this exception there are some modifications: If the drawer has made, or is
making a consignment to the drawee, and draws before the consignment comes to
hand. If the goods are in transitu, but the bill of lading is omitted to be rent to
the consignee, or the goods were lost. If the drawer has any funds or property
in the hands of the drawee, or there is a fluctuating balance between them in
the course of'their transactions; or a reasonable expectation that the bill would
be paid. Or if the drawee has been in the habit of ace.apting the bills of the
drawer, without regard to the state of their accounts, this would be deemed
equivalent to effects. Or if there was a running account between them. In
all such cases the drawer is considered as justified in drawing, so far as his having a right to draw; that "the transaction cannot be denominated a fraud : for in
such case it is a fair commercial transaction, in which the drawer has a reasonable expectation that his bill will be honoured; and he is entitled to the same notice as a drawer with funds, or authority to draw without funds."
But unless he draws under some such circumstances, his drawing without funds,

JANUARY TERM 1836.

573

[Dickins v. Beal.]
property or .authority, puts the transaction out of the pale of commercial usage
and law; and as he can in no wise suffer by the want of notice.6f the dishonour
of his drafts, that it is deemed an useless form.
Notice of the dishonour of bills of exchange must be made out in two ways: 1.That
the bills had been duly protested for non-acceptance ; and due and legal diligence
used in giving notice thereof to the parties on the bills : in which case the legal
presumption of its receipt in time would attach. 2. By proof that the notice
actually came to hand in proper time; though the letter containing the notice was
not properly directed, or sent by the most expeditious or direct route. The facts
of notice, and its reception in due time, are the only matters material to the drawer
or indorser of a dishonoured bill ; the manner or place in which they receive such
notice is immaterial ; for all the objects to be answered by its reception, it is equally
available to them. To the holder it is immaterial whether the evidence of notice
consists in the legal presumption arising- from due diligence, which supplies
the place of specific evidence, and is binding. on a jury as proof of the fact of its
reception; or it is established by direct evidence, or such circumstance as will in
law justify them in drawing the inference.
Since t6e case of Buckner v. Findley and Van Lear, 2 Peters 589,591, decided on great
consideration, it has been the established doctrine of this court, that a bill of exchange, drawn in one of the states of this union, on a person in-another, is a
foreign bill, and to be treated as such.; and that in this respect they are to be considered as states foreign to each other, though they are otherwise as to all the purposes of their federal constitution." Among these purposes are the establishment
of postoffices and post roads. The usage of the officers employed in the various
details of 'the operations of the department, when acting within the line of their
duty as prescribed by law and regulations; becomes all important to a court and
jury in deciding on what is legal diligence in giving notice, or what is evidence of
its reception.
It is legal diligence in the holder of a bill, if he avails himself in time of the means
of communicating notice) which are thus afforded; but he is not answerable for
any defects in the outlines or details of the regulation of the mails, for the route in
which the letter is carried, the time which eliapses from its deposit in the office
anddelivery, or the mode of carrying or distributing the mails:. but it is proper
that he should give evidence of all these'matters, as, well to repel the imputation
of laches if the letter does not come to hand, or not in due time, as to prove its
regular delivery, ifthere should be any doubt as to the use of diligence, in the direction or deposit of the letter. Such evidence is uniformly received in cases
arising on the notice of dishonoured bills.'
It is sufficient proof that bills of exchange were protested for non-acceptance or nonpayment, if the notary testifies he put notice thereof into theapostoffice, without pto.
ducing a copy of the notice or proving- its contents.
What will be considered as due diligence in giving notice of the dishonour of a bill
of exchange, as between the holder, and the drawer or indorsee of adishonoured.
bill. The question of their liability depends notbn actual notice, but on reasonable
diligence; which is in all cases tantamount to actual notice, whether given or not.
As the bills on which this suit was brpught were foreign bills, the protests pro'duced at the trial were in themselves evidence of the demand and protest. The
oath of the notary, that he put the notice into the postoffice, on the day of protest,
is cortipetent and sufficient in law to prove the fact.

SUPREME COURT.
[Dickins v. Beal.]

IN error to t'hb circuit court of the United States for the district of
West Tennessee.
This case was submitted to the court, without argument, by Mr
Porter, and Mr Crittenden.
Mr Justice BALDWIN delivered the opinion of the Court.
Samuel Dickins, the defendant, and Jesse Taylor, were partners,
transacting business at Hazelwood, Madison county, Tennessee,
which was the residence of Dickins. On the 6th of December 1832,
Taylor drew a bill of exchange for 1448 dollars, on Wilcox and
Feron, New Orleans, in favour of Dickins,'payable on the 1st of May
1834, which Dickins indorsed to the plaintiff. On the same day
Dickins. and Taylor drew two other bills,, on the former house, in
favour of the plaintiff: one for 2802 dollars, payable the 1st of May;
the other for 1590 dollars, payable the 1st of April 1834. The three
bills were dated at Hazelwood, Madison county, Tennessee; presented to the drawers on the 3d of June 1833, for acceptance ; which
being refused, they were protested, for non acceptance, by a notary
public; who, on the same day, gave notice thereof to the drawer and
indorser of the first, and the drawers of the other two, by letters put
into the postoffice, addressed to them at Hazelwood, aforesaid. It
was testified by the notary that, not knowing of any other residence
of the parties, than that designated by the caption of' the bill,'he forwarded the notices accordingly, after inquiring of persons likely to
know.
It appeared that all the bills were drawn without funds, orauthority to draw ; nor was any evidence offered to show that either Dickins or Taylor had any reason to think that their bills on Wilcox and
Feron would be honoured, except two letters from Wilcox and Feron,
dated the 'st of December 1831, addressed to the cashier of .the
branch Bank of the United States at, Nashville. In one they say,.
"Messrs Dickins and Taylor are authorized in making negotiations,
to value on our house in New Orleans, for say 10,000 dollars; in.
such form and at such time as they may think proper, and same
will be duly honoured." In the other, "our friend, colonel Samuel
Dickins, is authorized in negotiating with your institution, to value
on our house in New Orleans, at any time, for such sums as he may
-think proper; and same will be duly honoured by W. and F."

JANUARY TERM 1836.

575

[Dickins v. Beal.]

These letters were in the handwriting of Wilcox and Feron, and
in the possession of Dickins: they were offered to show that he was
entitled to regular notice of the protest of the bills drawn by Dickins
and Taylor; but were rejected by the court as incompetent.
The plaintiff resided at New Orleans. Jackson is the county town
of Madison county, Tennessee, about fourteen miles from Hazelwood, the defendant's residence, which is on Spring creek about half
or three-fourths of a mile from a postoffice called Spring Creek Postoffice ; of which the defendant was postmaster and did his business
there in June 1833. This was known to plaintiff, who, about and
before the 3d of June 1833, directed a letter to defendant at "Hazelwood, Spring Creek, Madison county, Tennessee," and one to
" Colonel Samuel Dickins, postmaster, Spring creek, Madison county, Tennessee." At the trial, the plaintiff offered to prove, by the postmaster at Nashville, and his deputy, that that place was the distributing office for letters from New Orleans, intended for West Tennessee, including the county.of Madison ; that in June 1833 they
knew defendant was postmaster at Spring creek; that if in distributing the mail they had seen a letter addressed to defendant at
Hazelwood, they would have sent it to Spring Creek postoffice. Also
to prove, by the postoffice books at Nashville, that on the 13th of
June 1833, the New Orleans mail arrived at Nashville; and on the
14th, a package was sent to Spring Creek postoffice, which had come
to Nashville for distribution, and was rated at fifty cents postage.
To this evidence it was objected, by the defendant, that inasmuch
as the putting a letter into the postoffibe containing notice of a protest, properly directed, forms a conlusive legal presumption that such
notice was duly given and received; it was also a legal presumption
that the notice went to the place directed and no other; and that the
plaintiff was concluded from showing, either that the destination of
the letter was changed on its passage, or was in point of fact sent to
any other place.
The court overruled the objection, and the evidence was received.
It was also testified that letters from Orleans, for the western
district of Tennessee, come to Nashville for distribution, unless there
was a river mail, in which case they would he delivered at Memphis
and be distributed thence ; other evidence was also given in relation
to the course of the mail, and the usage of the postoffice at Nashville, which is needless to recite. In their charge to the jury, the
court instructed them that the usage of a distributing office in con-

576

SUPREME COURT.
[Dickns v. Beal.]

formity to law, and the authorized regulations of the department,
and in the discharge of the official duties of the officers employed$
might properly. be taken into their -consideration of the. question submitted to them; which was, whether, from the usual course of the
mail, and the usage as proved, the notice'of the protest would necessarily reach Spring Creek, postoffice, or would fail to.reach it, or be
carried to some other office : in the first case, the court instructed
them that the notice was served on the defendant; but in the other
the drawer was disdharged unless actual notice was served.
Several instructions were prayed by the defendant, which the
view taken by the court renders it unnecessary to consider, as they
relate to matters not material to the cause; and if given either way,
they could not affect the right of either party. One, however, teserves particular notice, which was, "Ithat the evidence of the notary
was not sufficient proof that a legal notice was sent; but that he
ought to have set out a copy of the notice, or stated its contents, in
order that the court might judge whether it Was sufficient." The
court refused to give this instruction ; but stated that it might reasonably be inferred from the nature of -the notice, and from the fact
that notice was given, as stated in the deposition.
Exceptions were taken to. the decision of the.court on the questions
of evidence, and the various matters given in charge to the jury.

The-first question which arises, is on overruling the admission in
evidence of the two letters from Wilcox and Feron to the cashier of
the branch bank at Nashville.
It was in full proof that Taylor and Dickins never had a dollar in
the hands of Wilcox and Feron, to pay any draft drawn on -.the
latter, nor any money or other property in their hands to meet the
bills at the time they became due, or any funds in their hands-when
presented and protested for non-acceptunce. No proof was offered
that Dickins and Taylor, or either of them, had made any consignments to Wilcox and Feron as an expected or anticipatedfund on

which to draw.

It was also proved, that Jesse Taylor had neither

funds or property in the hands of the drawees, when his bill in favour
of Dickins was presented, for acceptance, or when it became due;
and-that they had received no advice of such bill: and that the two
bills.of Dickins and Taylor, drawn in favour of the plaintiff, one for
-

2802 dollars and the other for 1598 dollars, balanced their account on his. books. It is clear, therefore, that this transaction was
not a negotiation Within the meaning or intention of these letters:

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Dickins v. Beal.]

they evidently Yeferred to negotiations at the bank, or within the
sphere of its operations in the commercial transactions of the firm;
the one referring to Dickins alone was expressly limited to. negotiations with that bank. The remittance of these bills to New Orleans,
in payment-of an antecedent debt to the, plaintiff, was in no sense o'f
the term a negotiation of them; and was so utterly inconsistent with
the evident object of the letters, that the most remote expectation
could not have been entertained that they would have been accepted.
A mercantile house conducting operations at Memphis and New
Orleans, would, in the course of their business, lend their credit in
anticipation of consignments ; while they would refuse it to pay the
debts due to other persons: these considerations could not escape the
consideration of Dickins and Taylor, when they sought to make
Wilcox-and Feron their creditor, instead of Beall by such a fraudulent
abuse of the letters of credit. Had these bills come to the hands of
an innocent holder in the course of trade, with a knowledge of these
letters, the case would have been different: or if the bank had negotiated them, there would have beein a reasonable expectation that
they would hate been honoured: but Dickins and Taylor cbuld have
entertained no such expectation. The letters were, therefore, pro-.
perly excluded, and the case must be considered as if they had not
*existed.
An established exception to the general rule that notice of the
dishonour of a bill must be given to the drawer is, where he has no
funds in the hands of the drawee ; but of this exception there are
some modifications. 4 Cr. 154; 1 ). & E. 405; 2 D. & E. 712;
12 E. 175; 20 J. R. 149, 150.
If the drawer has made, or is making a consignment to the drawer;and draws before the consignment comes to hand. 12 E. 175.
If the goods are in transitu, but the bill of lading is omitted to be
sent to the consignee or the goods were lost. 16 E. 43.
If the drawer has any fhnds or property in the hands of the drawee;
or there is a fluctuating balance between them in the course of their
transactions; 15 E. 221 ; or a reasonable expectation that the bill
would be paid. 4 M. & S. 229, 230. Or if the drawee has been
in the habit of accepting the bills of the drawer without -regard to
the state of their accounts, this would be deemed equivalent to effects.
12 E. 175. Or if there was a running account between them. 15
E. 221.
In all such cases the drawer is considered as justified in drawing;
VOL.

x.-3 x

SUPREME COURT.
[Dickins v. Beal.]

as so far having a right to draw, that "the transaction cannot be
denominated a fraud: for in such a case it is a fair commercial transaction,.in which the drawer has a reasonable •expectation that his
bill will be honoured; and he is entitled to the same notice as a
drawer with funds, or authority to draw without funds." 15 E.
220; 16 E. 44.
But unless he draws under some such circumstances, his drawing
without funds, property or.authority, puts the transaction.out of the
pale of commercial usage and law ; and as he can in no wise suffer
by the want of notice of the dishonour of his drafts, that it is deemed
anuseless form. "Notice, therefore, can amount to nothing, for his
situation cannot be changed." In a case where lie has no fair pretence
for drawing, there is no person on whom he can have a legal or
equitable demand, in consequence of the non payment or non acceptance of the bill. This is the rule, as laid down by this court in
French v. The Bank of.Columbia, 4 Cr. 153, 164; on a very able
and elaborate review of the then adjudged cases ; which is fully
supported by those Since decided in England, and in the supreme..
court of New York. The case of the defendant falls clearly within:
the rlle applicable to bills drawn without funds, or any bona fide,
reasonable or just expectation of their being honoured ; and notice of
their dishonour was not necessary. The case requires no opinion
whether notice of the dishonour of Taylor's bill in favour of Dickins
was necessary, and we forbear to express any.
The next question which arises, is.on the admission of the evidence of the postmaster at Nashville, and his deputy ; in relation to
the course of the mail, the usage. of the office, and the facts to which
they testify.
We are at a loss to perceive any plausible objection to the evidence
which was received by the court, on the assumption that notice of
the dishonour of the bills must be made out by the plaintiff; which
could be done in two ways. 1. That the bills had been duly protested for noun-acceptance; and due and legal diligence used in
giving notice thereof to the parties on the bills; in which case the
legal presumption of its receipt'in time would attach. 2. By proof
that the notice actually came to hand in proper time; though the
letter containing the notice was not properly directed, or sent by the
most expeditious or direct route. The fact of notice, and its reception in due time, are the only matters material to the drawer or indoiser of a dishonoured bill ; the manner or place in which he receives

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Dickins v. Beal.]

such notice is immaterial ; for all the objects to be answered by its
reception, it is equally available to them. To the holder it is immaterial whether the evidence of notice consists in the legal presumption
arising from due diligence, which supplies the place of specific evidence, and is binding on a jury as proof of 'the fact of its reception
or it is established by direct evidence, or such circumstances as will
in law justify them in drawing the inference. 2 Peters 132.
Since the case of Buckner v. Findley and Van Leer, 2 Peters 589,
591; decided on great consideration; it has been the established doctrine of this court, that a bill of exchange drawn in one of the states
of this union, on a person in another, is a foreign bill,'and to-be
treated as such ; and that in this respect they are to be considered
as states foreign to each other, though theyare otherwise as to all
the purposes of their federal constitution.. Among these purposes
are the establishment of postoffices'and post toads; the regulation
of which has been delegated to the federal government; and is exercised by their laws and the regulations of the postoffice department
conformably thereto. On these depend all the communications between the states by mail; the time of departure from different
places; its route, place and course of its arrival and distribution.
The usage of the officers employed in the various details of the operations of the department, when acting within the line of their duty,
as prescribed by law and regulations ; become all important to a
court and jury in deciding on what is legal diligence in giving notice, or what is evidence of its reception.
It is legal diligence in the holder of A bill, if le avails himself in
time of the means of communicating notice, which are thus afforded;
but he is not answerable for any defects in the outline or details of
the regulation of the mails, for the route in which the letter is carried, the time which elapses from its deposit in the office.and delivery,
or the mode of carrying or distributing the mails: but it is proper
that he should give evidence of all these matters, as well to repel the
imputation of laches if the letter does not come to hand, or not in
due time ; as to prove its regular delivery, if there should be any
doubt as to the use of diligence, in the direction or deposit of the
letter. Such evidence is uniformly received in cases arising on the
notice of dishonoured bills.
The next question arises on the prayer of. the defendant to instruct
the jury, that proof that the bills were protested and notice thereof

SUPREME COURT.
[Dickins v. Beal.] ,

put into the postoffice, was not- sufficient, without producing a copy
of the notice, or proving its contents.
In Lindenberger v. Beall, the notary testified that notice of non
payment was enclosed in a letter addressed to the defendant at H.,
and put into the postoffice at G.: he had no recollection of these
facts, and only knew them 'from his notarial book, and the protest
made out at the time; from which, and his invariable practice, he
presumed he had done so. This was held sufficient proof of such
notice, and that it was uhnecessary to give notice to defendant to
produceit. 6 Wheat.. 104, 106. In Nichfiohv. Webb, the notary was
dead; but on a memorandum on the margin of the protest, it was
stated in- his handwriting, "Indorsee duly notified in writing 19th
July 1819, the last day of grace being Sunday the 18th ;" which
was held competent proof of notice. 8 Wheat. 326, 330. In this case,
the protests,were produced at the trial, and the' oath of the notary
positive as to the fact of notice: this is entirely equivalent to an entry
on his books, proved only by his handwriting after his death, or his
belief arising from the fact of having made such entry, connected.
with his uniform usage. It must therefore be taken as settled law,
that such is sufficient proof that the notice required -by law was
given. It remains to consider whether the letter containing the notice was so directed and deposited in the postoffice, at Orleans as to
comply with the law.
In cases of this description, the true question is, whether due diligence has been used by the holder of the bill ; not whether he has
given, or the defendant has received noti'ce: both are immaterial,
if reasonable diligence has been used. 'This consists in giving notice, if, after the usual and proper inqdiries are made, it is practicable
to give it : but if, when this is done, the holder or notary cannot
give the -notice personally, where the parties reside. in the same
place, or does not know Where to direct- it by mail, the inquiry is
diligence, without giving notice. After inquiring from other parties
to the bill, and examining the directory, if the party's residence cannot be found; 3 Camp. 263 ; if on calling at his residence, or place
where lie transacts his business, he is not to be found, or any other
person who can receive notice, it may be left there ; or, if his house
of business or residence, is locked up, and on audible knocking, no
one answers, or the party has changed his former residence, or removed to the coontry, no notice is necessary.

9 Wheat. 599; 2

JANUARY TERM 1836.
• [Dickins v. Beal.]

Peters 102, 105, 129; 6 D. & R. 505; 20 J. R. 172; and cases
cited.
Where the parties do not reside in the same place, diligence consists
in sending notice by the first mail, of the day of protest. 2 Wheat.
'273 ; 9 Peters 45. This is all that is necessary, if the letter containing the notice fs properly directed. 4 Wheat. 438. If the residence of the party appears on the. bill, the notice of protest, &c.,
must be directed there; 12 East 433;. if it does not so appear, then
reasonable diligence must be used, in making inquiry for his residence, and a reasonable time will be allowed to give notice after
ascertaining it : this has been held in case of notice to an indorsee
in April, of a.protest in October preceding. Wyghtwick's Ex. 76,
77.
•When all the facts are ascertained, diligence is a question of
law.
Wyghtwick 76 ; 1 Peters 583. If the-evidence is doubtful or contradictory, it is for the jury to decide ; 7 Peters 290: but in either
ase, it turns on what is the usage of the place, (9 Wheat. 587) the
habits of men of business, the kind and mode of inquiry usually
made in similar cases. 2 Burr. 669 ; 2 H. Bl. 565; 3 B. & P. 601
20 J. R. 174.
Thus a bill drawn by persons residing in Petersburgh, Virginia,
on a house in New York, and dated there, being protested ; a clerk
of the. notary made inquiry at the banks and elsewh6re, and on
being informed that the drawers resided at Norfolk, directed one notice to them, there, and put another into the postoffice, in New-York,
directed to them there ; it was held sufficient. 1 J. R. 294, 296 ;
Chapman v. Lippincott and Purcell, cited, 13 J. R. 433; 16 J. R.
220 ; 20 J. R. 174.
If a bill is drawn, dated "Manchester" (or " London"), without
any other direction, notice of protest, directed to the drawer at Manchester, was held good, on the presumptioi that it would reach him
if so directed. I R. & M. 249, 250. Notice directed to the residence or house of business of the party, is sufficient; the holder is
not bound to show that notice is brought.hone, but only ,to employ
the usual mode of conveyance; and tie rules of diligence to which
he is held, ought not to be such as will tend to clog the circulation
of commercial or negotiable paper, by impairing the liability of those
who have put it into circulation. 1 Peters 583; 2 Peters 102, 129.
If.
an indorsee lives within a reasonable distance of a postoffice,
notice to him, directed to him, at his residence, is good : as where

582

SUPREME: COURT.
[Dickins v. Beal.]

a note was protested at Cincinnati, the notice Was directed to T.
D. C., Campbell county, Kentucky, though defendant lived on the
south side of the Ohio,. two miles from Cincinnati, and Covington,
and three miles from -Newport, the county town.; in all of which
there were postoffices, and his residence was well known to the
holder and. postmaster. The putting the notice into the postoffice,
at Cincinnati, was held sufficient. 2Peters 549.
The clear and conclusive result of these cases is, that as between the holder and the drawer or indorser of a dishonoured
bill, the question of their liability depends not on actual notice,
but on seasonable diligence, which is in all cases tantamount
to actual notice, whether given or not. Hence, it becomes useless to examine into the instructions prayed for by the defendant
at the trial, and refused, by.the court, in relation to the course of
the mail after leaving New Orleans, or the points submitted to
the jury; for they could in no event avail the defendant, if the
jury believed the evidence ofthe notary. As thesewere foreign
bills, the protests produced at the trial *were in themselves evidence of the demand and protest. 8 Wheat. 330. The oath of
the notary, that he put the notice into the postoffice, on the day
of protest, is competent and sufficient in law to prove the fact : the
only question for the jury was his credibility.. The notices were
properly directed : 1. Because Hazelwood was the residence of the
defendant, within a short distnne of a postoffice ; 2. The bills were
dated at thatplace, and the directioin of the notices was to the same
place.
.
As a matter of law then, we are clearly of opinion, that due diligence was used by the plaintiff, when th- notices of protest were
put into the postoffice, at New Orleans. His right of action was then
consummated, and it can in nowise be affected by the course of the
mail, or the arrangementsconcerning its route or distribution; We
forbear any notice of the other questiofIs presented at the trial, lest
by doing so, we should, by implication, be deemed to think they
could in any event affect the right of the plaintiff, when no laches
could be imputed to him or the notary.
The judgment of the circuit court is affirmed with costs and interest.

