JANUARY TERM 1836.

THE UNITED STATES,

APPELLANTS V. CHARLES SErON, APPELLEE,

Under a grant of the governor of Florida, prior to the cession of the same to the
United States, of sixteen thousand acres of land, for the purpose of erecting. a
water-mill, a survey of five hundred and twenty acres was made,and at another place
a survey of fifteen thousand six hundred aid thirty acres was also made. The
court held, that the first su:vey of five hundred and twenty acres was valid, and
that the survey of fifteen thousand four hundred and eighty acres was invalid; but
that the grantee has a title to fifteen thousand four hundred and eighty acres of
vacant land; which he has aright to have surveyed, adjoining the survey of five
hundred and twenty acres.

APPEAL from the superior court for East Florida.
.This was a claim to land in East Florida, under a concession made
by Don Jose Coppinger, governor of the province of East Florida,
then under the dominion of the king of Spain, on the 6th day of May
1816, to Charles Scion the claimant. The claimant, on the 26th
day of April 1816, applied by petition to governor Coppinger for leave
to build a water saw-mill on Nassaud river, in East Florida, at a place
called Roundabout, and for the right to the quantity of land which
was customary for his supply of timber..
On the 8,h of May following, the governor, in cotnsideration (as he
states in his'decree made on said petition) of the benefit and utility
which would redound to the improvement of the province, if what
Don Charles Seton propo4ed, should be carried into effect; granted to
him, without injury to a third 'erson, that he might build a water 6awmill at the place which he solicited; but, with 'the precise condition,,
that until he should establish said mill,'said concession should be considered as not made, and without any value or effect, until that event
took'place. Thai then, in order that he might not be injured by
the inceeased expenses which he was preparing to incfr; he might
make use of the pine trees which were included in the square-of five
miles which hie asked for.
Fifteen thousand six h Lred and thirty acres of this land.were
surveyed by George J. F.. Clarke, public survdyor of the province,
agreeably to ihe calls of the concession, on the 1st ofNoveinbet 1816,
which is stated in the petition to be adjoiping to a tract of three hundred and seventy acres,, which had bedn before surveyed by said

310

SUPREME COURT.
[United States v. Seton.]

Clarke, as a part of said sixteen thousand acres; but it is alleged,
that the certificate and pjat of the three hundred and seventy acres,
have been-mislaid or lost. The claimant also alleges in the petition
that, in the year 1817, he completed the bu!'ding of said saw-mill, and
that it was for some time-in full operation.
The district attorney, by his answer, filed on behalf of the United
States, denies the power of the governor to make the concession ; and
insists that if he did possess competent power to make it, and if the
condition was complied with, it gives to Seton no right of soil, but
only a right to " use the pine trees which were comprehended in the
square of five miles which he asked for ;" and that only'while the mill
was in operation : and that for several years past, Seton has entirely
failed and neglected to keep the mill in operation, by which failure
and neglect he has lost all right, even to the use of the pine trees.
This claim is evidenced by a copy of the concession, certified by
Thomas de Aguilar, late secretary of the governme it of this province,
And by a duly certified copy of the survey and plat for fifteen thousand
six hundred and thirty acres. A duly certified copy of another. survey and plat, made by said Clarke on the 16th of May 1816, for five
hundred and twenty acres, at the place called Roundabout, was also
p-oduced.
It is in evidence that Seton built the mill in the year 1817 or 1818
(for the witnesses differ on Ihis point), but all agree.that it has not
been in operation since 1819.
Upon this state of the case, three questions were submitted in the
court below
1st. Had the governor power to make the grant?
2d. If he had, what interest vested in Seton upon the establishment of the mill?
3d. Does that interest, whatever it.was, continue? or did it cease
with the destructionn Of said mill ?
The claim was confirmed: the first question beipg considered as
settled, and the.court being of opinion that,. upon the establishment
of
the .mill, a full and, complete title to the. land itse.lf vested in
5eton,to
which he is entitled, notwithstanding his neglect to keep
it
in operation.. The United States appealed from this decree.
The case was argued by Mr Butler, attorney-general, for the
United States; and ly Mr White, for the appellee.

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[United States v. Seton.]

Mr Butler stated, that.'if the court shall consider the grant to the
appellee a valid grant, it will be for them to. decide whether it shall
endure beyond the ground occupied as a mill. Was it not a grant,
on a condition subsequent, that the mill shall be kept in order?
The grant is not to be understood as giving the trees until the mill
was built-no forther.
Mr'White, for the appellee, asked the attention of the court to the
petition, which was for the right to use timber until the mill should
be built; and afterwards for a right to the land.
These grants are protected by the provisions of the treaty, which
gave three years after it was made to complete the co1dition. But
in this case the mill was built ; and what afterwards took place was
of no moment.
Mr Justice BALDWiN delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is an appeal from the decree of the judge of the superior
court for the eastern district of Florida ; confirming the claim of the
appellee to sixteen thousand acres of land, pursuant to the acts of
congress for the adjustment of land claims in Florida.
In the court below the petition was in due form as prescribed by
law, presenting a proper case for the exercise of jurisdiction by the
court.
The claim of the petitioner was founded on his application to
the governor of East Florida for a grant of sixteen thousand acres of*
land, for the purpose of erecting a water saw-mill thereon and the
stipply of timber therefor;. which'was granted by the governor, in
consideration of the benefits which. would thereby redound to' ,the
province. The grant was made the 16th of May 1816, but with tht
precise condition, "that until he shall establish said mill, this con-,
cession shall be considered as not made, ahd without any value or
effect intil that event takes place." The mill was built in 1817,
pursuant to this condition, and in due performance thereof. On the
16thof May 1816, a surveyof five hundred andtwentyacres was made
at the place called for by the petition, and grant; -another survey of
theresidueof sixteen thousand acres was surveyed at another place on
thie 16th of November 1816; the first survey was declared valid by
the court below, the second was rejected. . The claim was'adjudged
valid,. and the survey of the residue of the land directed to be made
at the place called for in the grant. On-an inspection of the whole

312

SUPREME COURT..
[United States v. Seton.]

record, we are of opinion that the title of the petitioner- is valid to the
five hundred and twenty acres surveyed at the place called for by
the grant, and not valid as to the survey of fifteen thousand six hundred and thirty acres; but that his title is valid to fifteen thousand four
hundred and eighty acres of vocant land which he has a right to have
surveyed, adjoining the said survey of five hundred and twenty acres,
according to the decree of the court below. Their decree is, therefore, affirmed.

This cause came on. to be heard on the,transcript of the record from
the superior court for the district of East Florida, and was argued by
counsel; on consideration whereof, it is ordered, adjudged and decreed by this court, that the decree of the said superior court for the
district of East Florida in this cause be, and the samie is hereby
affirmed.

