JANUARY TERM 1836.

449

JOHN VOORHEES, JEREMIAH LETTON, SCHONEY ACHLEY AND NICHOLAS LONGWORTH, PLAINTIFFS IN ERROR V. JAMES JACKSON, EX
DEM. THE PRESIDENT, DIRECTORS AND COMPANY OF THE BANK
OF THE UNITED STATES.
Ejectment for a tract of land commenced in 1831, which had been sold under the
foreign attachment laws of Ohio; the defendants in the ejectment being in possession under the defendant in the attachment. The judgment, in the common pleas of
Hamilton county, Ohio, in the attachment suit, was entered in 1808. The
writ of attachment was returnable to April 1807; and it recited that it had been
sufficiently testified to the court, that the defendant, not residing in the state, was
indebted to the plaintiff. 'The tract of land was attached, and returned with an
inventory and appraisement. The defendant having made default, auditors were
appointed; and at December term they made a report, finding due to the plaintiff
267 dollars. The court ordered the property to be sold by the auditors. At April
term 1808, they reported they had sold the premises for 170 dollars. The court,
on inspection, confirmed the sale. The auditors afterwards conveyed by deed,
to Samuel Foster and William Woodward, who on the same day, 28th of May 1808,
conveyed the premises to William Stanley, with covenant of seisin, power to sell
and general warranty, under whom the plaintiffs in the ejectment derived title.
The proceedings in the attachment were in conformity with the Ohio attachment
laws, in all particulars, except, 1. No affidavit, as required by the statute, was found
filed with the clerk: and the law provides that, if this is not done, the writ shall be
quashed, on motion. 2. Three months notice of the attachment is to be given in a
newspaper, and fifteen days notice is to be given by the auditors; which did not
appear to have been done. 3. The defendant is to be called three times preceding
judgment, and the defaults recorded. No record appeared to have been made.
4. Auditors are not to sell until twelve months, and it did not'apprear when the
sale was made. 5. The return of the sale shows a sale to Foster anid Woodward,
and a deed was made to Stanley, and no connexion between them was shown in
the record.
By the Court. The several courts of common _pleas of Ohio, at the time of these
proceedings, were courts of general civil jurisdiction; to which was added, by the
act of 1805, power to issue writs of attachment, and order a sale of the property
attached on certain conditions; no objection therefore can be made to their jurisdiction over the case, the cause of action or the property attached. The process
which they adopted was the same as prescribed by the law; they ordered a sale,
.which was executed; and on the return thereof gave it their confirmation. This
was'the judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction on all the acts preceding
the sale, affirming their validity, in the same manner as their judgment had affirmed the existence of a debt. There is no principle of law better settled, than that
every act of a court of competent jurisdiction, shall be presumed to have been
rightly done till the contrary appears. This rule applies as well to every judgment
or decree rendervd, in the various stages of their proceedings, from the initiation to
their completion; as to their adjudication that the plaintiff has a right of action,
VOL. .- 3 G

SUPREME COURT.
[Voorhees v. The Bank of the United States.]
Every matter adjudicated becomes a part of their record; which thenceforth proves
itself, without referring to the evidence on which it has been adjudged.,
That some sanctity should be given to judicial proceedings; some time limited, beyond which they should not ie questioned; some protection afforded to those who
purchase at sales by judicial process; and some definite rules established, by
which property thus acquired may become transmissible, with security to the possessors: cannot be denied. In this country particularly, where property, which
within a few years as but of little value, in a wilderness, is now the site of large
and flourishing cities; its enjoyment should be at least as secure, as in that country
where its value is less progressive.
It is among the elementary principles of the common law, that whoever would complain of the proceedings of a court, must do it in such time as not to injure his adversary by unnecessary delay in the assertion of his right. If he objects to the
mode in which he is brought into court, he must do it before he submits to the process adopted. If the proceedings against him are not conducted according to the
rules of law and the court, he must move to set them aside for irregularity: or, if
there is any defect in the form or manner in which he is sued, he may assign those
defects specially, and the court will not hold him answerable till such defects are
remedied. But if lie pleads to the action generally, all irregularity is waived; and
the court can decide only on the rights of the parties to the subject matter of controversy: their judgment is conclusive, unless it appears on the record that the
plaintiff has no title to the thing demanded, or that in rendering judgment they have
erred in law. All defects in setting out a title, or in the evidence to prove it, are.
cured; as well as all irregularities which may have preceded the judgment.
So long as this judgment remains in force, it is in itself evidence of the right of the
plaintiff to the thing adjudged, and hives him a right to process to execute the
judgment: the errors of the court, however apparent, can be examined only by an
appellate power: and by the laws of every country, a time is fixed for such examination, whether in rendering judgment, issuing execution, or enforcing it by
process of sale or imprisonment. No rule can be more reasonable, than that the
person who complains of an injury done him, should avail himself of his legal
rights in a reasonable time, or that that time should be limited by law.
The line which separates error in judgment from the usurpation of power is very
definite; and is precisely that which denotes the cases where a judgment or decree
is reversible only by an appellate court, or may be declared a nullity collaterally,
when it is offered in evidence in an action concerning the matter adjudicated, or
purporting to have been so. In the one case, it is a record importing absolute
verity; in the other, mere waste paper: there can be no middle character assigned
to judicial proceedings, which are irreversible for error. Such is their effect between the parties to the suit, and such are the immunities which the law affords
to a plaintiff who has obtained an 'erroneous judgment or executior
The cases of Blaine v. The Charles Carter, 4 Cranch 328, 2 Cond. Rep. 127;
Wheaton v. Sexton, 4 Wheat. 506,5 Cond. Rep. 119; Tolmie v. Thompson, 2 Peters 157; Elliott v. Piersol, 1 Peters 340; Wright et al. v. The Lessee of Hollingsworth, I Peters 169; Taylorv. Thompson, 5 Peters 370; The United States v.
Arredondo, 6 Peters 729, cited.

IN errorto the circtiit court of the' United States, for the district of
Ohio.
The Preident and Directors of the Bank of the United Stites inisti-

JANUARY TrRM 1836.

451

[Voorhees v. The Bank of the United States.]

tuted an action of ejectment in 1831, for the recovery of a tract of land
in the county of Hamilton, in the state of Ohio. On the trial of the
case, in order to establish their title, they gave in evidence to the jury
the proceedi'ngs in an attachment against Seth Cutter, in the county
court of'Hamilton county, commenced in 1807 ; under which the
traPt of land in the ejectment was sold, in 1808, and the sale returned by the auditors appointed by the court to make the same, on the
16th day of April 1808. The sale was confirmed by the court, at
August term 1808; and, according to the provisions of the attachment law of the state of Ohio, the auditors had previously made a
deed to William Woodward and William Foster, the purchasers of
the property sold.
This deed was executed on the 28th day-of May 1828, to Woodward & FosW. who on the same day conveyed the same to William
Stanley.
The defendants in the ejectment claimed title to the premises,
which were in their possession, under Seth Cutter. They insisted that
the proceedings in attachment did not divest Seth Cutter of his title
to the land: but the court instructed the jury otherwise. The jury
gave a verdict in favour of the plaintiffs. To the judgment of the
circuit court, on the verdict, the defendants below prosecuted this
writ of error.
The record of the county court of Hamilton county, in the attachment against Seth Cutter, and the opinion of the circuit court upon
the title derived under it, by the plaintiffs below, were brought up
by a bill of exceptions. The whole proceedings in the attachment
are stated fuly in the opinion of the court.
The case was presented \to this court, on printed arguments, by
Mr Caswell, and Mr Chester, for the plaintiffs in error; and by Mr
Fox, and Mr Chase, for the defendants. Mr Sergeait also delivered
to the court a written argument, for the defendants in error.
The printed argument of the counsel for the plaintiff in error, presented for the consideration of the court, was as follows:
1. Were the proceedings in attachment sufficient to divest the title
of Seth Cutter to the premises in dispute?
2. Was that title by such proceedings, and by the deed made,
vested in Samuel Foster and William Woodward?
The plaintiffs in error hold the negative on both these points.

SUPREME COURT.
[Voorhees v. The Bank of the United States.]

The powers of courts are of two kinds, ordinary and extraordinary.
The first are those general powers of adjudicating between parties,
the defendant being within reach of their process, upon matteis
within the general cognizance of the tribunals, as established by
law. The constitution or laws establishing the respective courts of
the union or the states, define, by marked boundaries, these general
powers, as distributed to the different courts, and fix the limits of
their respective jurisdictions. Within these boundaries their power
is exercised according to their own discretion and judgment of the
law, and their adjudications are conclusive upon the rights of the
parties, unless the case be regularly brought under the review of an
appellate tribunal.
The constitutions of judicial tribunals are to be carefully distinguished
from those laws which are made for the enlarging, defining
or circumscribing the rights and liabilities of individuals constituting
the community, over which the powers of legislation are exercised.
From the former, a court derives its existence, its mode of being, and
the essential qualities of its nature. They confer upon it its powers,
define its jurisdiction, and limit its capacity. In expounding these
fundamental laws, in which -its judges have, if not a personal, yet
an official interest, it can claim no right to bind the conscience or
control the judgment of any other tribunal, not subordinate, before
which the question may arise, whether its construction and judgment
were right or wrong. It must be resolved by looking at the law
itself.
The extraordinary or special powers conferred upon courts are of
the same nature. Relating like them totheir own power and jurisdiction, they have no exclusive right to judge of them, so as to silence
the judgment of other tribunals, not subordinate, when the question
is whether the power exercised has been conferred. In other words,
the exercise of a power by a court does not prove the rightful existence of the power. And when a special power is conferred to be
exercised in a certain mode, it is equally competent for another tribunal to consider whether the power has been exercised in the mode.
prescribed ; for, in such case, the mode is an ingredient essential to
the power, constituting, indeed, a condition on which the power
depends. In such case the act is binding, or nugatory, as it pursues
the mode or is done.in disregard of it. And the record, to bind the
rights of the parties, must show that the power has been exercised
in strict conformity to the mode prescribed. It is not sufficient that

JANUARY TERM 1836.
(Voorhees v. The Bank of the United States.]

the mode has been pursued in three out of four, or nine out of ten of
its parts. It must be wholly pursued, to make the act valid. If
twenty things are required by the law to be done by the court in
exercising such special power, these being specially required, must
not only be done, but specifically appear on the record to have been
done. The omission of one is fatal" and a court, before which the
adjudication shall be collaterally brought, cannot hold a right to be
vested, or a title to be divested, by a record showing such an omission.
See Rose v.-Himely, 2 Peters's Con. Rep. 100, 101, 102 : Griffith
v. Frazier, 8 Cranch 9 ; 3 Johns. Cas. 108; Rex v. Luke, I Cowper
26 (Lord Mansfield's opinion, p. 2Q); 1 Bur. 377 ; 4 Bur. 2244.
In Smithv. Rice, It M.ss; Rep. 510, it is held, that although the
court have jurisdiction of the subject matte', yet if the proceedings
are not according to the course of the common law, and the statute
be not strictly followed, the judgment is absolutely void, and vests
no-right. See also, Davol v. Davol, 13 Mass. Rep. 264.
The statute respecting attachments, in force .at the time of these
proceedings, will be found in I Chase's Stat. p. 462, passed in 1805.
Section fifteen of this statute enacts:
"That the. goods, chattels, lands, tenements, rights, credits, moneys and effects, of persons residing out of the state, shall be liable
to be attached, taken, proceeded against, sold, assigned *and transferred for the payment of their debts, in the same manner, as nearly
as may be, as is herein provided, with respect to other debtors: provided, that instead of the oath or affirmation herein before provided,
the applicant for such writ of attachment, his agent or attorney,
shall make oath or affirmation that the defendant is not, at that time,
resident within the state, as he verily believes ; and that the said
defendant is justly indebted to him in a sum of money, specifying as
nearly as he can the amount of his demand or balance : provided
also, that no judgment shall be entered by virtue of this section,
until notice for the space of three months shall be given in one of
the newspapers published in this state, of the issuing of such attachment, and at whose suit, against whose estate,_from what court the
same issued; and that unless the defendant in attachment shall
appear, give special bail, and receive a declaration, judgment will
be entered, and the estate so attached sold for the benefit of the creditors."
For the other provisions regulating foreign attachments we are

SUPREME COURT.
(Voorhees v. The Bank of the United States.]

referred to those parts of the-statute relating to domestic attachments..
The first section relates to the oath to be taken by the plaintifi the
substance of which is changed, in the section just quoted, to accommodate it to the case of a non-resident debtor. It provides before
what officer the oath may be taken; that it shall be taken and filed
with the clerk of the court; and that any writ of attachment issued
before the oath or affirmation be so taken and filed, shall be quashed
on motion. Sections two, three, four, five, six and seven relate to
the mode of executing the writ, garnishees, costs, trying the right
of property, &c. Section eight is in these words:
"The court, at the return of such writ of attachment, shall appoint three discreet persons to audit and adjust the accounts and the
demands of the plaintiffs, and so many of the creditors of the defendant in attachment, as may have applied to the court, or shall apply to
the auditors for that purpose, before they shall have closed their
report, which report shall be made in writing, -s'gned by the said
auditors, or any two of them, and shall be returned to the court from
which such writ of attachment issued, and at the third term, including the term to which the writ of attachment was returned,
final judgment shall be entered on such report: provided, that the defendant shall have been called three times, at each of the said terms,
and have made default, and those defaults shall have been entered
by the clerk," &c.
,8ection eleven of this act is the last to which we deem it necessary to call the particular attention, of the court. It authorizes

the auditors, by virtue of an order from the court, to sell the lands
and tenements, &c. attached: "provided, that notice of such sale
shall be set up in writing, at three of the most public places within
the county, at least, or be advertised in a newspaper, published in
the county, for the space of fifteen days, at least, .prior to such sale;
nor shall any sale be made of.such lands and tenements, in less than
twelve' calendar months, from the return Of such writ of attachment,"
&c.
We will present at one view the requirements of the statute to
which we ask the attention of the court.
1. The plaintiff must make and file an affidavit before any writ of
attachment can issue.
2. This affidavit must state that the defendant is not resident
within the state, as plaintiff believes. 3. An advertisement, minutely described in tlie statute, must be

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Voorhees v. The Bank of the United States.]

published in some paper of the state, three months before any judgment can be rendered.
4. No judgment can be rendered against the defendant until the
third term, and then only on the express condition, that at each of
said terms, he shall have been three times called, and have made
default, and those defaults shall have been entered by the clerk.
5. No sale of lands can be made by the auditors in less than.
twelve months from the return of the attachment.
6. The auditors are required to give at least fifteen days noti-e,
by advertisement, of the sale.
None of these requirements of the statute appear to have been
complied with. The Clerk has certified that thctranscript contains
all the matters of record, or on file, in the cause. There is no affidavit' or mention of an affidavit in the transcript. The court of common pleas had no jurisdiction of the matter until this was made and
filed. The defendant was not within the jurisdiction of the court, or
liable to its process, and his property could only be proceeded against
and subjected to sale, upon the making of such an affidavit or affirmation as is prescribed in the statute. Any prbcess, and all the proceedings founded upon process of attachment, are a nullity without
this. There is no room here for presumptions. Where title depends upon a record, nothing is to be presumed which does not appear in the record. Proceedings of courts can be shown only by their
records, and what the law requires to be recorded, cannot be presumed to exist, where the record does not show it. The writ issued
recites, that whereas the plaintiff had sufficiently testified. In what
manner he testified, whether by a verbal oath or assertion without
oath, does not appear. It does appear that it was not in the manner required, for then the oath would have made a part of the record. And it is not recited in the writ, that he had even testified
that the defendant was not then resident within the state. The
clerk himself seems to say, that, he was -not a resident. The language is, "has sufficiently testified that Seth Cutter, who is not
now a resident of the state."
We conceive that the want of this affidavit is fatal to all the subsequent proceedings, and that any judgtpent rendered in the cause
was a nullity.
The next defect in the record is, that it does not appear that the
attachment was advertised according to the statute. This was the
mode required by the statute for nerfecting service :it was necessary

SUPREME COURT.
[Voorhees v. The Bank of the United States.)

to make Cutter a party to the cause to make the proceedings binding upon him. Without such a notice, his rights could not be
affected by any judgment rendered in the cause. This matter is
settled by the supreme court of Ohio, in Colwell, Adm. v. Bank of
Steubenville, 2 Ohio Rep. 229, and in Taylor v. M'Donald, 4 Ohio
Rep. 155, 156.
* Chief Justice Marshall in the case of the.Mary, 3 Peters's Cond.
Rep: 312, says: " it is a principle of natural justice, of universal
obligation, that before the rights of an individual be bound by a judicial sentence, he shall have notice, either actual or implied, of the
proceedings against him." The only mode in which implied notice
could be given the defendant, in attachment, is by publication. No
publication was made ; no actual notice pretended: of course the
party vas not bound by the judgment, and his title to the land was
not divested.
The court was authorized to give judgment at the third term, only
on the express condition that, at each of the three terms, the defendant had been three times called, and bad made default, and these
defaults were entered by the clerk. At the first term he was regularly called and defaulted, according to the statute. At the second
term there is no entry of calling, or a default. At the tfiird term he
was called, but whether once or more, does not appear. The court,
in this state of the record; had no right or power to give judgment,
and it is for this reason a nullity.
Twelve calendar months must, according to the terms of the statute, elapse after the return of the writ, before any sale could be made
of the lands of the defendant. It does not appear, either from the
return of the auditors, or their deed, when the sale was made. The
order for sale, such as it was, was issued long before the expiration
of the twelve months, and of course before the land was liable to
'sal'e.: It is submitted, that the court could make no order of this kind
before the end of the twelve months. They itust wait until the land
is liable to sale'before they can order it to be sold. That order is in
pr senti (not limited to a future time), to do that which there was
no rightful authority to do. Such an order seems to us a nullity.
At least, if made within twelve months, it should appear not to
have been executed till after their expiration.
The auditors are required to give at least fifteen days notice of the
sale. This does not appear to have been done. It is not so stated
in the deed. No proof of the fact is adduced. These auditors were

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Voorhees v. The Bank of the United States.]

not regular judicial or ministerial officers. They acted neither under
the sanction of an oath of office, nor had they given any security to
which the defendant could resort in case of injury. The power conferred must be strictly pursued. No presumptions can be made in
their favour. That it would not be necessary, to sustain a title ac-.
quired under a sheriff's deed, to show that he had obeyed the law*in
the manner of making his sale, in every respect, may be admitted.
But it by no means follows, that the same favour is to be shown towards a title claimed under the exercise of a special power, conferred
on individuals. All-the reasons are against it.
We have not thought it necessary to remark upon many things
contained in this record, which, to say the least, appear to us singular. Whether the persons who adjusted the accounts against the
defendants were auditors or referees, seems to be left in doubt. The
nature of the claims against the defendant, by what evidence supported, or how ascertained, tres not appear. The order to sell,
issued to the auditors, does not appear. For aught that appears in
the record, the sale was private, and without notice.
2. Admitting that the proceedings in attachment would have been
otherwise sufficient to divest the title of Seth Cutter, the deed is not
sufficient to Vest that title in Samuel Foster and William Woodward.
So far as we can conjecture from the return of the auditors, the land
in question was sold to William Stanley. To him alon6 could the
auditors convey. The return of the auditors is necessary to sustain
the deed. Without this it cannot be pretended that the deed,would be
valid. The subsequent conveyance by Foster and Woodward to Stanley, does not alter the principle. They could convey no title which
was not vested in them. If none was vested in them, none passed by
their deed. It is not even shown or pretended, that Foster and
Woodward were, by any act of Stanley, substituted in his place as
purchasers. They stand entirely unconnected with the record. In
the case of Den v. Lambert, I Green's New Jersey Rep. 182, this
point is decided. There one individual was reported as the purchaser, and the deed was made to him and another. The question
for the court was, whether such a deed vested any title. It was
decided that it did not. If that was a correct decision, it is conclusive on this point.
It will probably be urged for the defendant in error, against the
views we have presented of this case, that however erroneous the
proceedings of the court of common pleas may'have been, yet they
VOL. x.-3 H

SUPREME COURT.
(Voorhees v. The Bank of the United States.)

cannot be inquired into collaterally :that their judgment is binding,
until reversed by an appellate tribunal. This doctrine is true as to
matters within the ordinary jurisdiction of courts, where the proceedings are according to the course of the common law. But not so in
-this case. The defendant was not within their jurisdiction., He could
only. be affected through his property lying within that jurisdiction.
The court could only take jurisdiction in a certain state of facts,
which must be made to appear by an affidavit filed. They could
subject the property of the defendant only by a particular mode of
proceeding. He was not a party in court, and the plaintiff took
judgment against him at his peril. The purchaser was bound to
inquire. into the power of the persons acting as auditors, and the
means by which the property was subjected to sale. The whole
record is necessary to support their title, and to the whole they should
have looked. The rights of the party could only be affected by
strictly pursuing the law. Colwell v. Bank of Steubenville; and
Taylor v. M'Donald, before cited.
But in relation to inquiring into the regularity of these prcceedings collaterally, the legislature of Ohio has settled the question, so
far as legislative construction can settle it.
By the' act of February 4th, 1813, 2 Chase's Stat. 795, sect. 6,
reciting, that whereas it had been doubted, &c., and for removing
such doubts, it was enacted: "that any person, in any suit or proceeding, founded upon, or in which it may be necessary to sh-w any
such process," (in attachment) "proceeding or judgment, may be
permitted collaterally to impeach the same, and to show any irregularity theyein, or any deviation from the authority conveyed by the
said fifty-third section, or by the above recited act' (the act allowing
and regulating attachments)..
If it be objected, that this act was passed after the title is claimed
to have vested, the case of Watson et al. v. Mercer, 8 Peters's Rep.
88, is an answer to such objection.
It is true that this clause, in the act of 1813, was afterwards repealed, with the whole act. But it cannot but be obvious that the
reason why it was not re-enacted, was, that the reason given for
passing it no longer existed; that the doubts in relation to the matter
had ceased.
In Humphries v. Wood, Wright's Ohio Rep. 566, the court say:
"these proceedings" (in attachmenl), being ex parte and in cm,

ANUARY TERM 1836.
[Voorhees v. The Bank of the United States.]

the statute must be strictly pursued, or no right is acquired under it ;"
and the proceedings were declared to be void, not voidable.
In M'Daniel v. Sappington, Hardin's Ken. Rep. 94, the court hold
that, the remedy by attachment being, in derogation of the common
law, the statute giving the remedy ought. to bestrictly pursued in all
its provisions..
These are the reasons for our respectfully insisting that the circuit
court erred in giving judgment,on the point reserved, for the plaintiff. And unless there be something in the name or essence of a
court which.makes its ex parte proceedings binding upon the rights
of individuals, despite of all the provisions of a statute vesting it with
whatever power it has over the subject matter-unless, because it iL
authorized to do one thing it may do all things-unless, because it
has power to do a particular thing in a particular. mode, it may do
the same thing in any other mode, according to its own pleasure-unless it can secretly, by the aid of irresponsible agents, held to their
duty neither by oath or obligation, dispose of the property of citizens
of other. states according to its uncontrolled will.; we think we may
rightfully ask for the reversal of the judgment of.the court below.
Mr Fox, with whom was Mr Chase, in their printed argument,
argued.for the defendants in error as follows:
The objections urged below, and which we anticipate will. be
urged in this court against the validity of the proceedings in the
attachment suit taken, in. the order in which they arise, as follows:
First, because no affidavit of non-residence appears .in the record;
second, because there is no evidence of the pendency of the suit
having been advertised three months.; third, that the record does
not show that the req'uisite defaults have been entered; fourth, that
the deed ought not to have been made to Woodward and Foster, the
sale having been made to Stanley.
As to the first objection, we say the statute does hot require that*
the affidavit should be. made a part of the record. All that is required by the law is the filing of the affidavit with the clerk. The
affidavit ought certainly to. be filed, but it is no more necessary that
such affidavit should be recorded than that an affidavit to hold to
bail, or the attorney's precipe ordering a writ in a cause should be
recorded, or that proof of such an affidavit having been made should
appear in the record. Indeed in an ordinary suit the writ forms no
necessary part of the record, unless required to be recorded by ex-

SUPREME COURT.
[Voorhees v. The Bank of the United States.]

press statute. Until within a few years the writ is not to be found
in the records of judicial proceedings in Ohio.
But in the present case the record does show that an affidavit was
filed, for it is recited that the plaintiff "has sufficiently testified to
the judges of our court of common pleas that Seth Cutter, who is not
now residing in the state, is indebted," &o. Here it is shown that
an affidavit had been made, and We presume that this recital must
be held sufficient at this late period, even if the court should consider record evidence necessary to prove that an affidavit had been
made. The next question arising in the cause, is whether it is
essential that in an attachment suit, where the article seized is substituted for a personal service of process, the record must show that
the proper advertisement of the pendency of the suit has been made.
We suppose it not necessary tb the validity of the judgment, that
any such advertisement should in factbe made, but at all events,
we insist that no evidence of the fact of advertisement having been
made need appear in the record.
We suppose in this as in all other proceedings in rem, the seizing
of the property by virtue of process issued from a court hav.ing
authority to issue the writ, vests in the tribunal from which the process issued a complete jurisdiction over the thingbor property seized.
If we are right in this position, it follows, we suppose, as a matter of
course, that irregularities or errors in the subsequent proceedings of
the court, can only be corrected by the courts of the state.
We insist that the issuing of the writ of .ttachment and seizing
the real estate by virtue of that writ, gave to the court of common
pleas of Hamilton county, complete jurisdiction of the property
seized :
'Because, First, the statute declares "that the property so attached
shall be bound from the time of levying .such attachment." See. 2d.
• Secondly. Because the property from the time of attachment, is
to "remain in the care and safe keeping of the office, to abide'the
judgment of the court." Sec. 3d.
Thirdly. Because at the return term of the writ, the court are
authorized to refer the matters of account, &c., to the auditors to be
adjusted. Sec. 8th.
Fourthly. Because the court are authorized to direct a sale of the
personal property attached at any time after it is seized, if it be of a
-perishable nature. See. 11th.
Fif.hly. Because the death of the defendant is not to abate the

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Voorhees v. The Bank of the United States.]

suit, but the right of the plaintiff is referred to the time of suing the
attachmet.
These adta- could not be authorized to be done, unless upon the
supposition, that the court by virtue of the seizure,'had complete
jurisdiction of the suit and of the parties thereto, so faras -the disposition of the property attached was concermed. This is also agreeable to the analogous proceedings in the courts of admiralty and
exchequer.
In admiralty causes, it is a universal principle that the seizure of
property by an officer acting under authority, vests the right in the
-sovereign, and authorizes his courts to proceed and inquire whether,
under the laws, the property seized has been forfeitedi and to adjudge to whom it belongs and how it shall be disposed of; and all
sentence , judgments and decrees, , affecting the property so seized,
are conclusive upon all the world, as to the right and title to the
thing seized from the time of seizure. 4 Cranch 278; 1 Paine's C.
C.. Rep. 626. On the seizure of the property, the jurisdiction of the
admiralty courts, attaches, and the property is subject to the decision in the cause. 4 Cranch 296; 1 Phil. Ev. 273; 12 Serg. &
Rawle 289; 1 Paine's Rep. 626; 3 Binney 220; 5 Cranch 184.
If then the court had jurisdiction. of the cause, the omitting to
publish the pendency of the writ, did not divest the court of its jurisdiction. The court undoubtedly might have refused to have given
judgment, and indeed ought not to have given judgment until the
advertisement had bedn made, and we must suppose the court
did require' the evidence of such publication ; as we are not to presume the judges neglected, or erred in the discharge of their duties.
But suppose the court did not require any proof of such publication
having been made; suppose that they were satisfied of its having
been made from their own personal knowledge, such'as their having
read the -notice -inthe newspaper, and admitting the court ought
to have required other eviderme of the fact:, all that can be
said in relation to the matter is, that the court erred, but the error
of the court cannot affect the validity of the judgment. The. purchaser of property.is not responsible for the errors of the court
or of the parties. Nor can the errors of the court of common
pleas be -inquired into by this court. This court, so far as the
judgment of the court of common pleas of Hamilton county is
concerned, is a foreign court, and as such cannot notice the irregularities of the Hamilton county courts. The regularity or irregularity of the proceedings of our own courts is an internal regulation

SUPREME COURT.
[Voorhees v. The Bank of the United States.]

of-the statd of Ohio, and as such, rmust be expounded by the courts
of the state. Foreign courts cannot notice the errors of state courts.
4 Craneh 294; 1 Paine's Rep. 621.
"Where judicial proceedings are merely irregular, the courts of
the country pronouncing the sentence, are the exclusive judges of
that irregularity, and their decision binds the world." 4 Cranch
278.
The case of Kempe's Lessee v. Kennedy, 5 Cranch 173, we conceive conclusive on this subject. In that case the court held that
whether the inquest which was substituted for a verdict " did or did
not show that an offence had been committed, was a question which
the cohrt in New Jersey was competent to decide. The judgment
it gave is erroneous, but it is a judghnent, and until reversed, cannot
be disregarded." The same principle is recognized, II Mass. Rep.
229.
So in 12 Serg. & Rawle 289, it was held that money being attached in Louisiana, "the judgment of the courts there touching-the
disposition of that money was conclusive. The thing attached
being in Louisiana was subject to the jurisdiction of her courts. By
what law it was to be governed, "it was for the judges of those
courts to decide; and we presume they would decide by their own
laws."
The third objection is, that the statute requires the defendant
should be called for three successive terms and defaulted, and entries
of such default entered of record, and that the record offered in evidence does not show that these defaults were entered This, like
the other objections, is one which could only be taken advantage of
by writ of error, which could only be prosecuted in the state court.
It does not affect the validity of the judgment. There is no doubt
the defendant ought to have been called three times, at three successive terms, and that an entry of such calling ought to have been
made. But after admitting all this, the judgment still remains good
until reversed. The plaintiffs in error, in order to sustain their objection, by their course of argument destroy all the well settled distinctions between void and erroneous judgments. The least irregularity ; the smallest error in the judgment of the courts, if sufficient
to reverse the judgment in a superior court, is also sufficient, according to this view of the case, to render it null and void. If thisjudg-,
ment was a valid judgment until reversed or set aside by a superior
tribunal in Ohio, it is binding and valid every where. And being a

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Voorhees v. The Bank of the United States.]

proceeding in rein, not'against the person ; the seizing of the property being tantamount to personal service in a personal action ; the
court had jurisdiction of the matter, and that is all the law requires
to make the judgment valid.
The last objection, as we understand it, is, that the deed is not
made to the person who was returned as the purchaser at the auditor's sale.
It is true, that the auditors returned that .the land in question
"wag sold to William Stanley, for 170 dollars;" but this return is
not conclusive on the purchase; the deed made to Woodward and
Foster, is ag strong evidence of the sale having been made to those
persons, as the return to the court is of its having been made to Stanley. But we contend it is immaterial whether the sale was made
to Stanley, or to Woodward and Foster. If the sale was to Stanley,
he was equitably entitled to a deed for the property sold, and he was
equitably entitled to direct the deed to be made to another. The
statute does not require the auditors to make a deed to the purchaser.
By the eleventh section they are authorized to sell and convey the
lands. But to whom they are to make the deed is left to be decided
by the principles of law and the agreement of the parties. The
auditors, perhaps, could nQt be compelled to convey to an assignee
of the purchaser, unless by the court of chancery; but if the pur.chaser requested the auditors to make the deed to Woodward and
Foster, and the auditors did so, we do not perceive that the rights
of Cutter were in any way affected by the arrangement. The equitable title to the lot was vested in Stanley by the purchase, and the
right would have been enforced specifically by a court of equity,
either on the application of Stanley (if he had parted with his interest), or of his assignee. The deed for Foster and Woodward shows
that Stanley was satisfied with the doings of the auditors, or he
would not have received a deed from WOodward and Foster. The
latter made to Stanley a warranty deed, and both deeds bear date
on the same day; it is evident, therefore, that Stanley, Woodward
and Foster, the only persons interested in this matter, were perfectly
agreed as to the manner of making the deeds; and as no law has
been violated, we suppose the deeds are valid.
To these views of the matters in controversy, Mr Chase subjoined
an argument, in which he contended :

SUPREME COURT.
[Voorhees v. The Bank of the United States.]

1st. It appears from the record and the law, that the proceedings
in attachment were had before a court of competent jurisdiction.
2d. That in the exercise of this jurisdiction, a judgment was rendered and an order made; in virtue of which the land in controversy
was properly sold
3d. That. the judgment and order so made, having never been
reversed, remain valid and in full force; and cannot now be collaterally questioned.
He cited Kempe's Lessee v. Kennedy et al., 5 Cranch 173, 2 Peters's Cond. Rep. 223; 3 Peters's Cond..Rep..312; Ohio Forms and
Practice 126, 359; Hartshorn v. Wilson, 2 Ohio Rep. 28; 6 Ohio
Rep. 268; 2 Chase's Statutes 712; 5 Ohio'Rep. 500; 1 Chase's
Statutes 163, 164, 683, 795, 972; 5 Ohio Rep. 500, per Hitchcock,
chief judge; Allen's Lessee v. Parish, 3 Ohio Rep. 190; Ludlow's
Heirs v. Wade, 5.Ohio Rep. 501 : Ludlow's Heirs v. M'Bride, 3
Ohio Rep. 257; Ludlow's Heirs v. Johnston, 3 Ohio Rep. 561;
Dabney v. Manning, 3 Ohio Rep. 325; Colwell v. Bank of Steubenville, 2 Ohio Rep. 229; Cowden v. Hurford, 4 Ohio Rep. 133; Taylor v. M'Donald, 4 Ohio Rep. 154; Humphrey v. Wood, Wrights
Ohio Rep. 566.
Mr Sergeant, also for the defendants in error, argued in writing:
First, That the sale which is questioned in this case, was made in
the year 1808, about twenty-eight years ago. It was made under
a judgment of a court of competent jurisdiction, and in conformity
to that judgment. The deed was duly acknowledged, and was
recorded in June 1808. The judgment stands in full force, and
unreaversed.
The objections made after this great length of time are, that certain things required by law in the course of the proceedings, do not
appear to have been closed. It is not proved that they were left
undone. The question then is, whether a party, after more than a
quarter-of a century, is bound, affirmatively and positively, to prove,
in support of his title, that not only the court, but every officer and
every person employed by the court, did what the law required to be
done; or else to lose his land.
In such a case, presumption stands in the place of proof. The
court will presume every thing to have been rightly and regularly
done. This is due to the tribunal. Its conclusions are presumptive
evidence that the right steps have been taken. This presumption

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Voorhees v. The Bank of the United States.]

arises immediately : it is strengthened by time : and after so many
years, is indispensable to justice. How is it possible now to prove
affidavits or advertisements.
2. The want of an affidavit is supposed to go to the jurisdiction of
the court. If this were so, the plain answer would be, that it does
not appear that there was no aflidavit. Tie presumption is, that
there was an affidavit; and after so great a length of time it is irresistible and conclusive.
But this is not the law. By the first section of the act of Ohio it
is'provided, that if the clerk issue a writ without an affidavit, "such
writ shall be quashed on motio, at the proper cost of the clerk issuing
the same." If there be no motion, then the writ cannot be quashed;
atd 0f the writ be not quashed, it remains in force, and so supports
the jorisdiction. The writ cannot be invalidated in any other way
than this. It is a good writ if it be not so invalidated. In this case,
therefore, the writ is a good writ, and unimpeachable now, in. this
collateral action, even if it were certain there was no affidavit.
3. There are some remarks made in the argument as to the time
of sale, not very exact ; nor, seemingly, much relied upon. It is only
necessary, in order to dispose of these remarks, that the prohibition
in the act, sect. 11, is'limited specifically to the sale. The order of
sale may be before the expiration of the year.' The act seems to
contemplate that it shall be at the time of giving judgment. The
advertisement may be within the year; and if it announce a sale
after the year, it is good.
Now, here, it does not appear that the sale was within the year.
That would be enough. But the evidence is sufficient to show that
it was after the year. The return of sale bears date the 16th of April,
being eleven days after the end of the year. The reasonable presumption, according to the usual course of such business is, that this
was the date of the sale, or as soon after as possible.
4. Upon the more general and very important question, whether
these proceedings are examinable in a collateral suit, I wish to add
a reference to the case of Thompson v. Tolmie, 2 Peters 157. The
principles are there very fully and clearly stated; and that judgment
is deemed to be decisive of the present case.
It will be perceived.that the counsel on both sides refer to cases in
Massachusetts as mntaiiniing cont adictory docrines. They do seem
to be opposed to each other. But in Heath v. Wells, 5 Pick. 140,
the former cases are reviewed and reconciled. Where the proceedVOL. x.--3 i

SUPREME COURT.
(Voorhees v. The Bank of the United States.]

ings were held void, it was because there was wanting what was
necessary to vest jurisdiction. The indispensable prerequisite did
not exist.
Perhaps, too, the courts of Massachusetts were more liberal, because there was no opportunity of review by writ of error. It is not
necessary to examin.e what weight ought in justice to be allowed to
this consideration. Such motive for enlarging or relaxing the ordinary rule is not to be found in this case. Judgments in attachment
were, and are examinable on error in Ohio.
And this leads to a remark upon the cases cited by the counsel of
the plaintiff in error. They are -a1, without exception, (that in
Wright's Ohio Rep. 566, included) writs of error. No instance of
impeaching the proceedings collaterally, has been shown.
The distinction is a familiar one, and it is highly important.
Writs of error are limited in point of time. Collateral suits are
almost without limitation.
Still more. Reversal of a judgment, on error, does not affect the
title of a purchaser. The successful pkLrty does not go for the land,
but for restitution of what Was recovered from him by his aidversary.
The collateral suit seeks to recover the land, leaving the money in
the hands of the adverse party, at the expense of the purchaser, who'
thus becomes the victim-. The creditor gets his money, which i' not
unjust. The debtor is released without payment, and an innocent
purchaser, invited by judicial proceedings, is made to pay. Duly
encouraged, such a principle would soon lead to piratical adventures
under colour of law.
Mr Caswell and Mr Chester; in reply to the argument of Mr Fox
and Mr Chase; denied, that the proceeding by a foreign attachment,
under the laws of Ohio, was a proceeding in rem. They argued that
a foreign attachment is a proceeding against a debtor for the recovery of a debt due to the plaintiff in attachment. The'debt does
not grow out of the property attached ; there is no offence committed
or duty neglected in regard to it,.to form the basis of the proceeding.
The particular property seized is not in default: no offence has been
committed by means of it, or in relation to it: there is no debt constituting a lien upon it; or in other words, it is not itself a debtor.
No question is agitated or put in issue in relation to the property.
The issue to be tried, if an issue be made up, is whether the person

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Voorhees v. The Bank of the United States.)

defendant is debtor, and the amount of the debt ; and wvhther he is
non-resident so as to be within the provisions of the statute.
There is nothing in this proceeding in common with proceedings
in rem.
In answer to tile position, that if the common 1l1eas of Hamilton
county had jurisdiction of the attachment suit, this court cannot look
at their proceedings, it was urged, that the power delegated by a
statute can be exercised in no other mode than that pointed out
by the statute, and no presumption in favour of proceedings in a
foreigg attachment will be sustained, where the purchaser under
them was never in possession, and where suit is brought after the
lapse of twenty years.
They denied the arguments on the cases cited by the counsel for
the defendants in error ; and also the construction of the statute of
Kentucky relative to sales made by administrators.
In conclusion, they stated :
We trust we have satisfactorily shown that the grounds assumed
by the defendants in error are not tenable ; and that they are not
sustained by the authorities cited in support of their positions.
Especially wethink it is manifest both from authority and upon
principle, that a general jurisdiction of a class of cases, coming under
one general head, does not necessarily give or infer a jurisdiction
over every particular case, or an unlimited power in relation to each
case. See Bank of Hamilton v. Dudley's Lessee, ' Peters 492,
particularly pages 523, 524. That a power, even in a court, to do.
an act in a particular mode, does not give the power to do the act
in any other mode. That when there is a power or jurisdiction,
upon the condition of something being first done, the recoid must
show that the thing required was done. That when, by the legislative act giving power over the subject matter, the court is prohibited from rendering judgment until certain pre-requisites have been
compiied with, the judgment isnot merely voidable, but a nullity,
unless these pre-requisites, being matters proper for the record, shall,
by the record, appear to have been performed : most certainly is this
the case, if the statute expressly prohibit any final action or judgment, until after these shall have been placed on the record.- We
think we have shown that a foreign attachment is not such a proceeding in rem, as comes within the principles laid down by admiralty courtsi in relation to parties and notice in such proceedings ;
that in all ex parte proceedings, where there has been no actual no-

SUPREME COURT.
[Voorhees v. The Bank of the United States.]

tice to the person interested, he may avail himself collaterally of
every advantage which he would have on a -writ of error, for error in
law ; that where a statute requires notice or service of any kind,
upon one who is to be thereby made a party to a suit, he is not
bound, nor his property divested by any proceedings or judgment,
unless such notice or service be shown, or may clearly be inferred
from the record ; that a jurisdiction or power is not acquired over
the rights of.a person, 'who is without' the jurisdiction of the court
and of the state, merely by the issuing of a writ against his property,
without a compliance with any of those essential requisites on which,
by the statute, the right and power of the court first to entertain the
cause,and afterwards to proceed in it to judgment, depends; and
finally, that in all ex parte proceedings, the plaintiff takes judgment
at his peril, and purchasers must, at their -peril, look to the whole
record of the cause.
And if these, or any of these propositions be sound, then we have
certainly brought our case within it, and are entitled to a reversal of
the judgment below; for we have shown:
1. That by the statute the plaintiff must make and file an affidavit
before any writ could issue; and no such affidavit was made or filed.
(The defendant's counsel err when they say such an affidavit makes
no part of the record.)
2. That this affidavit must state, that the defendant is not resident within the state, as plaintiff believes. No such affidavit was
made or alluded to, or any intimation given that such a thing was
testified to.
3. That to give notice to the defendant, an advertisement, the
substance of which is prescribed in the statute, must have been published in some paper of the state, for three months before the court
was vested with any power to give judgment, and no such notice is
mentioned in the record ; and there is nothiingin-or out of the record
from which it can be inferred.
4. That no judgment could be rendered against the defendant
until after three callings at each of three terms of the court, and
three defaults entered on the record by.the clerk; and that the
power to give a valid judgment depended on this as a condition precedent. The callings and the defaults do not appear as required.
5. That no power to sell the land in question, and of course no
power to order the sale of the land, existed till after the lapse of
twelve months from the return of the attachment ; and the order

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Voorhees v. The Bank of the United States.]

was issued long before the lapse of the twelve months ; and there is
no evidence that the auditors waited for the expiration of the time,
or when, or where, or bow they sold.
6. That the auditors were required to give at least fifteen days
notice, by advertisement, of the sale ; and it is not shown or pretended, either by the deed or otherwise, that such an advertisement
was made; and,
7. That the return shows a sale to one man, and a conveyance
made to others not in any mode connected with the record.
From the time of the sale to the present day, the defendant in
attachment, and those claiming under him, have been in the undisturbed possession of the land, now at this late day brought into dispute ; and viewing the decisions of the state courts, and the principles of law as we do, we most cheerfully unite in the sentiment and
opinion so happily expressed by the defendant's counsel : "that the
judgment of this court will accord with the course of decisions in the
state courts, and will teid not to impair, but to establish confidence;
not to excite, but to repress the spirit of speculation in litigation;
not to destroy, but to fortify the security of titles."
Mr Justice BALDWIN delivered the opinion of the. Court.
This case comes up by a writ of error from the circuit court for the
district of Ohio, to reverse a judgment in an action of ejectment, obtained by the defendants against the plaintiffs in error. The sole
question in the court below, was the validity of a sale of the premises in controversy, under a judgment of the court of common pleas
of Hamilton county, Ohio, in a case of foreign attachment, rendered
against Seth Cutter in lrnS at the suit of Samuel Foster. By the
record in that case it appears, that the writ was returnable to April
term 1807. It recited that the plaintiff had sufficiently testified to the
judges, that tie defendant, who is not residing in the state, is indebted
to the plaintiff, &c. The sheriff returned the writ, with an inventory of the property attached by him; in which was included the
property in question, with an appraisement thereof. At, the April
term the defendant was three times called and made default; whereupon the court appointed auditors to report at August term following: the order was then continued till December term, when the
auditors made a report, finding a debt of 267 dollars due the plaintiff. The court then rendered judgment.on the report, and ordered
the property attached to be sold agreeably to law. An order of sale

SUPREME COURT.
(Voorhecs v, The Bank of the United States.]

was accordingly issued to the auditors, who at the April term 1808,
to wit on the 16th of April, reported that they had sold the premises
to William Stanley for 170 dollars ; on an inspection of which the
court granted judgment of confirmation thereof. On the 28th of
May 1808 the auditors made a deed to Samuel Foster and William
Woodward, who on the same day conveyed the same to William
Stanley ; under whom the lessors of the plaintiff claimed by sundry
mesne conveyances.
The consideration of the deed from the auditors to Foster and
Woodward was 170 dollars, the same as from them to Stanley; but
they gave in their deed a covenant of seisin, of power to sell, and general warranty. The defendants were in possession, claiming title
under Seth Cutter, the defendant in the attachment, as whose property the land was sold. The case has been submitted on printed
arguments; which present a full and able view and discussion of the
points arising in the cause.
On comparing the record of the proceedings on the attachment,
with the provisions of the act of 1805, Chase's Ohio Laws, 462, &c.,
the acts of the court in all the course of the cause appear to be in
conformity t.herewith, except in the following particulars, on which
the objections to the validity of the sale are founded :
1. By the first section itiprovides tht an affidavit shall be made
and filed with the clerk before the writ issues, and if this is not done
the writ shall be quashed, on motion: no such affidavit is found in
the record.
2. The fifteenth section directs three months notice to be given by
publication in a newispaper, of the issuing of the attachment, before
judgment shallbe entered; the eleventh section also prdscribes, that
fifteen days ritice of sale shall be given by the auditors: neither of.
which appears by the record to have been done.
3. By the proviso to the eighth secden, the defendant niust be
three times called, at each of the three terms preceding j udgment, and
make default, which defaults shall be recorded by the clerk: no entry is made of such default at the December term 1807.
4. By the eleventh section, the auditors a,':'prohibited from selling
till the expiration of twelve tnonhsrfoi'o the return of the writ:
whereas the order issued before; and it does not appear when the sale
was made..
5. The, return of thd sale by the auditors, show.-; a sale to one

JANUARY TERM 1836.

471

[Voorhees v. Th6 Bank of the United States.]

person, and a deed to others; not in any mode counected with the
record.
There is no provision in the law, that if the several acts therein
directed to be done are omitted, the sale or any other proceedings under the attachment shall be deemed void: but by-the thirteenth section it is declared, that every sale and conveyance, made by the said
auditors, or any two of them, by virtue of the authority herein
granted, shall be ais binding and effectual, as if the same had been
made by the said defendant, prfor to the service of the said attachment.
It is contended by-the counsel for the plaintiffs in error, that all
the requisitions of the law are conditions precedent; which must not
only be performed before the power of the court to order a sale, or
the auditors to execute it, can arise; but that such performance must
appear on the record.
The first part of this proposition is the true meaning of the law of
Ohio: the various acts required to be done previous to a sale arc prescribed by a proviso, which in deeds and laws is a limitation or exception to a grant made or authority conferred'; the effect of which is
to declare, that the one shall not operate, or the other be exercised,
unless in the case provided.
By the eleventh section, the auditors are directed, by virtue of an
order of the. court, to sell and convey the hinds attached, provided they
give notice : notice then is the condition, on the performance of which
their duty and power depend ; and the act must be done to make
the execution of the power consistent with the law.
But the provisions of the law do not prescribe what shall be deemed evidence that such acts have been done, or direct that their performance shall appear on the record. The thirteenth section, which
gives to the conveyance of the auditors the same effect as a deed from
the attachment; contains no other linvitation than
the defendant in.
that it shall be " in virtue of the authority herein branted."
. This ieaves the question open to the application of those general
principles of law, by which the validity of sales made under judicial
process must be tested ; in the. ascertainmeit of which, we do not
think it necessary to examine the record in the attachment, for evidence that the acts alleged to have been omitted appear therein tW
have been done. Assuming the conrary to be the case, the merits
of the present coptroversy _ire narrowed to the single question, whether this omission invalidates the sale. *The several courts of corn-

SUPREME COURT.
[Voorhees v. The Bank of the United States.]

mon pleas of Ohio, at the time of these proceedings, were courts of
general civil jtirisdiction ; to which was added, by the act of 1805,
power to issue writs of attachments, and order a sale of the property
attached on certain conditions: no objection therefore can be made
to their jurisdiction over the case, the cause of action, or the property
attached. The process which they adopted, was the same as prescribed by the law; they ordered a sale which was executed, and on
the return thereof gave it-their confirmation. This was the judg.ment of a court of competent jurisdiction on all the acts preceding the
sale, affirming their validity in the same manner, as their judgment
had affirmed the existence of a debt. There is no principle of law
better settled, than that every act of a court of competent jurisdiction shall be presumed to have been rightly done, till the contrary
appears: this rule applies as well to every judgment or decree, rendered in the various stages of their proceedings f-om the initiation to
their completion, as to their adjudication that the plaintiff has a right
of action. Every matter adjudicated, becomes a part of their record ;
which thenceforth proves itself, without referring to the evidence on
which it has been adjudged.
In this case the court issued an order of sale agreeably to law,
which having been returned by the auditors, and "' being inspected,
the court grant judgment of confirmation thereon." It is therefore a
direct adjudication, that the order of sale was executed according to
law. They had undoubted authority to render such a judgment; and
there is nothing on the record to show that it was not rightfully exercised. If the defendants' objections can be sustained, it will be on
the ground that this judgment is false; and that the order of sale was
not executed according to law, because the evidence of its execution
is not of record. The same reason would equally apply to the non-,
residence of the defendant within the state, the existence of a debt
due the plaintif, or 'any other, creditor, w hich is the basis on which
the whole proceedings rest. The auditors are equally silent on the
evidence, upon which they reported that debts were due by the defendant, as on the evidei ce of notice and due publication ; but no one
could pretend that the judgment that the debts reported were due,
shall be presumed to- be false. Though the able and ingenious argument of tie defendants has not been directed at this part of the
judgment of the court of common pleas ; the grounds of objection
are broad enough to embrace it: for in resting their case on the only.
position which the record leaves them, they necessarily affirm the

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Voorhees v. The Bank of the United States.]

general proposition, that a sale by order of a court of competent jurisdiction, may be declared a nullity in a collateral action, if their record does not show affirmatively, the evidence of a compliance with
the terms prescribed by law in making such sale. We cannot hesitate in giving a distinct and unqualified negative to this proposition,
both on principle, and authority too well and long settled to be questioned.
That some sanctity should be given to judicial proceedings; some
time limited, beyond which they should not be questioned; some
protection afforded to those who purchase at sales by judicial process;
and some definite rules be established, by which property thus acquired may become transmissible, with security to the possessors:
cannot be denied. In this country particularly, where property,
which within a few years was but of little value, in a wilderness, is
now the site of large and flourishing cities : its enjoyment should- be
at least as secure, as in that country where its value is less pro.
gressive.
It is among the elementary principles of the common law, that
whoever would complain of the proceedings of a court, must do it in
such time as not to injure his adversary by unnecessary delay in the
assertion of his right. If he objects to the mode in which he is
brought into court, he must do it before he submits to the process
adopted. If the proceedings against him are not conducted according to the rules of law and the court, he must move to set them aside
for irregularity: or, if there, is any defect in the form or manner in
which he is sued, he may assign those defects specially, and the
court will not hold him answerable till such defects are remedied.
But if he pleads to the action generally, all irregularity is waived,
and the court can decide only on the rights of the parties to the subject matter of'controversy: their judgment is conclusive, unless it
appears on the record that the plaintiff has no title to the thing demanded, or that in rendering judgment they have erred in law: all
defects in setting out a title, or in the evidence to prove it, are cured,
as well as all irregularities which may have preceded the judgment.
So long as this judgment remains in force, it is in itself evidence
of the right of the plaintiff to the thing adjudged, and gives him a
right to process to execute the judgment: the errors of the cburt,
however apparent, can be examined only by an appellate power; and
by the laws of every country a time is fixed for such examination,
whether in rendering judgment, issuing execution, or enforcing it
VOL. X.-3 K

SUPREME COURT.
[Voorhees v. The Bank of the United States.]

bl process of sale or imprisonment. No rule can be more reasonable,
than that the person who complains of an injury done him, should
avail himself of his legal rights in a reasonable time, or that that
time should be limited by law.
This has wisely been done by acts of limitation on writs of error
and appeals: if that time elapses, common justice requires, that
what a defendant cannot do directly in the mode pointed out by law,
le shall not be permitted to do collaterally by evasion.
A judgment or execution irreversible by a superior court, cannot
be declared a nullity by any authority of law, if it has been rendered by a cobrt of competent jurisdiction of the parties the subject
matter, with authority to use the process it has issued : it must remain the only test.of the respective rights of the parties to it. If the
validity of a sale under its process can be questioned for any irregularity preceding the judgment, the court which assumes such power
places itself in the position of that which rendered it, and deprives
it of all power of regulating its own practice or modes of proceeding
in the progress of a cause to judgment. If after its rendition it is
declared void for any matter which can be assigned for error only on
a writ of error or appeal; then such court not only usurps the jurisdiction of an appellate court, but collaterally nullifies what such
court is prohibited by express statute law from even reversing.
If the principle once prevails, that any proceeding of a court of
competent jurisdiction can be declared to be a nullity by any court,
after a writ of error or appeal is barred by limitation, every county
court, or justice of the peace in the union, may exercise the same
right, from which our own judgments or process would not be exempted. The only difference in this respect between this and any other
court is, that no court can revise our proceedings; but that differpn.ce disappears, after the time prescribed for a writ of error or appeal
to revise those of an inferior court of the United States or of any state;
they.stand on the same footing in law. The errors of the court do
not impair their validity: binding till reversed, any objection to their
full effect,.must go to the authority under which they have'been
conducted. If not warranted by the constitution or lawof the land,
our most solemn Orqceedings can confer no right which is denied to
any judicial act under, colour, of law, which can properly be deemed
to have been done coram non judicf; that is,: by persons assuming the
judicial function in the given case without lawful. authority.
The line which separates error in judgment from the usun on

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Voorhees v. The Bank of the United States.]

of power is very definite; and is precisely that which denotes the
cases where a judgment or decree is reversible only by an appellate
court, cr may be declared a nullity collaterally, when it is offered in
evidence in an action concerning the matter adjudicated, or purporting to have been so. In the one case, it is a record importing absolute verity; in the other, mere waste pape : there can be no middle
character assigned to judicial.proceedings, ivhich are irreversible for
error. Such is their effect between the parties to the suit; and such
are the immunities which the law affords to a'plaintiff Who has
obtained an erroneous judgment or executioh. It would be a well
merited reproach to our jurisprudence, if an innocent purchaser, no
party to the suit, who had paid his money on the faith of an order of
a court ; should rot have the same protection under an erroneous proceeding, as the party who derived the benefit accruing from it. A
purchaser under judicial process, pays the plaimiff his demand on
the property sold: to the extent of the purchase mo'aey, he discharges
the defendant from his adjudged obhgation. Time has given an
inviolable sanctity to every act of the court preceding the sale, which
precludes the defendant from controverting the absolate right of the
plaintiff to the full benefit of his judgment ; and it shall not be permitted that the purchaser shall be answerable for defects in the
record, from the consequence of which the plaintiff is absolved. Such
flagrant injustice is imputable neither to the common or statute law
of the land. If a judgment is reversed for error, it is a settled principle of the common law coeval with its existence, that the defendant
shall have restitution only of the money ; the purchaser shall hold
the property sold; and there are few, if any states in the union who
have not consecrated this principle by statute.
This great rule, established for the protection of purchasers on the
faith of judicial process, will be utterly prostrated ; encouragement
will be given todefendants in judgments, tlheir heirs and privies, to
take advantage of the security into which honest purchasers have
been lulled ; if any judicial proceeding which could stand the test
of a writ of error, or appeal, if taken in time, or had become irreversible directly, could be avoided collaterally.
Acts of limitation become useless if a defendant is allowed to evade
them by avoiding judgments or executions, on the suggestion of
defects or omissions in the record, which can be reviewed only by an
appellate court: a direct premium is held out for delaying the resort
to the mode pointed out by law for correcting the errors of judicial

SUPREME COURT.
[Voorhees v. The Bank of the United States.]

proceedings. His debt is paid by the purchaser- the property purchased is restored to the defendant without any obligation to refund;
and that which was, when sold, of little value, and bought at its full
price paid to the defendant's use, becomes his rightful estate, when
the remote out lot has become a mart for commerce, and covered with
.valuable improvements. Had he brought his writ of error in time,
and reversed the judgment or execution on which it was sold, justice
would have been done him by a restitution of the purchase money;
and to the purchaser, by leaving him in the quiet enjoyment of the
property purchased. Such are the consequences of the doctrines
contended for by the defendants' counsel, in their objections to the
proceedings on the attachment: none of them affect the jurisdiction
of the court, or its authority to order or confirm the sale : the acts
omitted to be noticed on the record are not judicial, but ministerial,
tobe performed by the clerk, or auditors. It was a good gyound for
a motion to quash, or suspend the proceedings for irregularity, if they
had not been done in fact.: and as the judgment was by default,
perhaps the omission to state them on the record may have been
good cause for reversal on a writ of error. But o .an inspection of
these proceedings collaterally, we can judicially see only what the
court has done; not whether they have proceeded inverso ordine, erroneously, according to the proof before them, or what they have omitted, or ought to have done. They have adjudged that the order of
sale was executed agreeably to law : nothing appears on the record
to impugn their judgment; it must, therefore, be taken to be true in
fact, and valid in law. Their order of sale was a lawful authority to
the auditors to sell: it was a full justification to them in obeying it:
it was executed in virtue of the authority granted by the law to the
court, who have not exceeded their jurisdiction: and the deed of the,
auditors passed the titte to the premises in controversy to the purchaser.
It has not been thought necessary to review the various cases cited
in the argument : the principles which must govern this and all other
sales by judicial process, are. general ones adopted for the security of
titles, the repose of possession, and the enjoyment of property by innocent purchasers, who are the favourites of the law in every court,
and by every code. Nor shall we refer to the decisions 6f state courts,
or the adjudged cases in the books of the common law: our own repeated and uniform decisions cover the whole case ; in its most expandoa view; and the highest considerations call upon us so to re-

JANUARY TERM 1836.

477

[Voorhees v. The Bank of the United States.]

affirm them, that all questions such as have arisen in this cause may
be put at rest in this and the circuit courts. In Bla4ne v. The Charles
Carter, a ship had been sold under executions issued within ten days
after judgment, contrary to the express prohibition of the twentythird section of the judiciary act ; but no writ of error was taken out.
The court declared,. that if the executions were irregular, " the
court from which they issued ought to have been moved to set them
aside. They were not void, because the mnrshal could have justified
under them ; and if voidable, the proper means of destroying their
efficacy had not been pursued." The decree of the circuit coiirt
was affirmed, and the money ordered to be paid over to the execution
creditor. 4 Cranch 328, 333.
In Wheaton v.Sexton, the case turned on the validity of the sale
of real estate by the marshal of this district, by virtue of an excution,
in which the language of this court is: " the purchaser depends on
the judgment, the levy and the deed. All other questions are between the parties to the judgment, and (he marshal. Whether the
marshal sells before, or after the return ; whether he makes a correct
return or any return at all to the.writ; is immaterial to the purchaser:'
-.provided the writ was duly issued, anl the levy made before the
return." 4 Wheat. 506.
InTolmie v. Thompson, there had been a sale under an order of
the orphan's court of this district, which had been confirmed'by them;
and a deed made to the purchaser, the validity of which was questioned, on objections similar to those now under consideration. The
court say : " those proceedings were brought before the court collaterally, and are by no means subject to all the exceptions which might
be taken on a direct-appeal. They may well be considered judicial
proceedings: they were commenced in a court of justice ; carried on
under the supervising power of the court, and to receive its final
ratification. The general and well settled rule of law in such cases
is, that when the proceedings are collaterally drawn inquestion, and
it appears on the face of them that the subject matter was within
the jurisdiction of the court, they are voidable only. The errors and
irregularities, if any exist, are to be corrected by some direct proceeding, either before the same court to set them aside, or in an appellate
court. If there is a total want of jurisdiction, the proceedings are
void and a mere nullity, and confer no right, and afford no justification; and may be rejected when collaterally drawn in question."
The purchaser is not bound to look beyond the decree when exe-

SUPREME COURT.
[V-oorhees v. The Bank of the United States.]

cuted by a conveyance, if the facts necessary to give jurisdiction
appear on the face of the proceedings ; nor to look further back than
the order of the court. " If the jurisdiction was improvidently exercised, or in a manner not warranted by the evidence before it, it is
not to be corrected at the expense of the purchaser; who had a right
to rely upon the order of the court, as an authority emanating from
a competent jurisdiction." 2 Peters 163, 168. "When a court has
jurisdiction, it hals a right to decide every question that arises in the
cause ; and whether the decision be correct or not, its judgment until
reversed is regarded as binding in every other court." Elliott v.
Piersol, 1 Peters 340 ; 2 Peters 169.
In Taylor v. Thompson, this court affirmed a principle of the
common law ; that the sale of a term of years inder a fieri facias,
issued after and while the defendant was in execution under a ca.
sa. on the same judgment, was good when made to a stranger to the
execution. 5 Peters 370.
In the United States v. Arredondo, it was laid-down as an universal principle, that when power or jurisdiction is delegated to any
public officer or tribunal over a subject matter, and its exercise is
confided to his or their discretion ; the acts. so done are valid and
binding as to the subject matter; and individual rights will not be
disturbed collaterally, for any thing done in the exercise of that discretion within the authority and power conferred. The only questions-which can arise, between an individual claiming a right under
the acts done; and the public, or any person denying their validity;
are power in the officer, and fraud in the party. All other questions
are settled by the decision made, or the act done by the tribunal or
officer; unless an appeal or other revision of their proceedings is prescribed by law. 6 Peters 7 29i 730.
These are rules of property which have been established- so far as
the authority of this court can do it: they apply to and must govern
this case on the broad principles laid down ; and none of them come
into collision with any construction given to the laws of Ohio, prescribing the mode of transferring real estate by judicial procuss. On
the broadest ground, therefore, which has been taken in any of the
specified objections to the proceedings of the court of common pleas
in the attachment suit; we are most clearly of opinion, that none of
them can be sustained, without the violation of principles which
ought to remain inviolable.
The remaining objection is, that the auditors did not make their

JANUARY TERM 1836.

479

[Voorhees v. The Bank of the United States.]

deed to the person who purchased at the sale under the order of the
court. This is a matter entirely between such person and those to
whom the deed was made : to Cutter, it is immaterial to whom the
conveyance was made; his right was extinguished by the sale
and confirmation. It is equally immaterial to those who claim
under Cutter, who received the deed ; Stan ley, the purchaser, or
Foster, the plaintiff: it was a matter between themselves, which
can have no effect on the validity of.the sale, were it unexplained. But connecting the record with the deeds, their inspec
,tion removes the objection, for the reasons stated in the argument
of counsel. -Samuel Foster was the principal creditor, and plaintiff in the- suit; Stanley purchased, but took his deed from Foster and Woodward, with their covenants of seisin, warranty and
title: had he taken a deed directly from the auditors, it must have
been without any covenants. The object was evidently to have an
assurance of the title: for both deeds were executed and acknowledged on the same day, and the consideration of both was the
same.

The judgment of the circuit court is affirmed.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the circuit court of the United States for the district of Ohio,
and was argued by counsel ; on consideration whereof, it is ordered
and adjudged by this court, that the judgment of the said circuit
court in this cause be, and the same is hereby affirmed with costs.

