SUPREME COURT.

THOMAS JACKSON ET AL., APPELLANTS V. WILLIAM

E.

ASHTON.

After a case has beeh dismissed for want of jurisdiction, the pleadings having been
technically defective ; the court will not, at a subsequent term, allow them to be
amended, and the case to be reinstated on the docket. It would be, in effect, a
reversal of the former decree, after the case' had been finally disposed of in this
court.

There will be no difficulty in making the amendment in the circuit court, in such
a case, if that court shall see fit, in its discretion, to allow it to be done, and the
cause may then be re-heard there;, and on a decree, newly rendered, may be

brought up on appeal to this .court: or a decree may be there rendered, by consent of parties, in order to bring up the case without delay.

THIS case was before the court at January term 1834, on an appeal from the circuit court of the, United States for the eastern district of Pennsylvania, and was dismissed for want of jurisdiction : the
complainants, Thomas Jackson and others, in the circuit court, hav•ing omitted to state in the body of the bill, filed on the equity side
of the court, that the defendant was a citizen of the state of Pennsylvania. 8 Peters 148.
Mr Key, and Mr Peters, now applied to the court for liberty to
amend the record, by stating the citizenship of the defendant, and
to reinstate the cause on the docket.
Mr Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the Court.
A motion has been made to allow an amendment of the record of
this case, by inserting an allegation of the citizenship of the parties;
and to reinstate this cause on the docket under the following circumstances: The cause came before this court at the January term 1834;
and, as will be found in the eighth volume of Mr Peters's Reports,
pp. 148, 149, was then reversed for want of jurisdiction of the circuit
court by reason of the omission to allege that the parties were citizens of different states: the appeal to this court was dismissed; and
the decree of this court was ordered to be certified to the circuit court.
We are of opinion, that under these circumstances, the record cannot be amended. or the cause reinstated in this court. It would, in
effect, be a reversal of the former decree of this court. We have no
power over the dec:ees rendered by.this court after the term has

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Jackson et al. v. Ashton.]

passed, and the cause has been dismissed, or otherwise finally disposed of here.
But in our opinion, there is no difficulty in making the proposed
amendment in the circuit court; if that court shall see fit, in its discretion, to allow it to be done. The cause may then be re-heard
there; and upon the decree newly rendered, an appeal can then be
taken to.this court; or a decree may be there rendered by consent
of the parties, in order to enter the cause without any delay to this
court.
This court, in rendering its former decree, had no authority (not
having any jurisdiction, but to.re4erse for the want of jurisdiction of
the circuit court) to send the cause back for further proceedings,
with liberty to amend the bill. - But the mandate was not understood by us to apply, except to the record in its then state ; and we
entertain no doubt, that no(t.ithstanding any thing in the former
decree of reversal; it is entirely competent for the circuit court, in
their discretion, to allow the amendment now proposed to be made,
and to reinstate the cause in that court. But we have no authority
in the matter. The motion is, therefore, overruled.

VOL. X.-3 L

