286

SUPREME COURT.

ELIZABETH' DAVIS, ADMINISTRATRIX OF JOHN
ANDER BRADEN.

H. Dkvxs v. ALEX-"

The defendant in an action of detinue died previous to-the return day of the term,
,and at the term his death was suggested, and a scire facias was issued to his executors,.to a subsequent term, and the plaintff moved the court to revive the suit
against them; which motion, on argument,'was overruled, and the suit abated.
On a-day afterwards, in the same termthe plaintiff's attorney moved the court to
rescind the order refusing to revive the suit; and upon this motion the judges were
opposed in opinion, whether the action. could'be revived against the personal
representatives of the defendant; which division was certified to the supreme
court. Held : that the question cannot be brought up on a certificate of division.
There was pot, in strictness, any cause. in court. The insurmountable objection is,
that.the granting or refusing the motion, was a matter resting in the discretion of
the court, and did not present a point that could be certified under the act of congress. Although the words *of the act are general, tha whenever any question
shall occur before a circuit court, upon which the opinion of the judges shall be
opposed, the point shall be certified, &c.; yet it is very certain that this cannot
embrace every question that may arise in the progress'of a cause, from its commencement.. There maybe many.motions made in the different stages-of a cause,
before trial, that could not be brought here under a certificate of division; such as
motions for amendments, for commissions, pr continuances, &c., and variousother motions that arise in the progress of a suit - which, if brought up in this
manner, would occasion great delay and expense. These, and all other questions
resting in the discretion of the circuit court, are not to be reviewed here.
The questions which may be certified, are those which may arise on the trial of a
case, and are such as may be presented upon the final hearing ofa cause, or pleas
to the jurisdiF+!on of the court. The motion in the present case does not stand on
stronger groX Ids than a motion for a new trial; and it has been decided in this
court, in the case of the United States v. Daniel, 6 Wheat. 542, 5 Cond. Rep. 170;
that a division of opinion upon, such a motion cannot be brought here by a certifil
cate of a division of opinion in the circuit court; and the reason assigned is, that
the granting or refusing a new trial is a mere matter of discretion; and the refusal,
although the grounds of the motion be spread upon the record, is no sufficient
cause for a writ of erro.
The effect of the division is, that the motion is lost: so
in the present case, the effect of the division of opinion isp that the motion is lost,
and the plaintiff is driven to a new suit.
The court do not mean to decide, definitively, that no question can be brought here
.upon a certificate of a division of opinion, unless the point arose upon the trial of
the cause; but are very much induced to think that such is the true construction
of the act: but from the general words -used, cases may possibly arise that we do
not foresee.

ON a certificate of division in opinion from the circuit court of the
Unittd States-for West Tennessee.

JANUARY TERM 1836.

287

[Davis v. Braden.)

At September term 1825, an action of detinue was instituted in
the circuit court, by John H. Davis against Alexander Braden, to
recover a negro slave. During the progress of the suit, the plaintiff
died, and the suit was revived in the name of Elizabeth Dais, his
administratrix, on the 1st day of October 1830. Afterwards the defendant Alexander Braden died ; and at September term 1832, his
death was suggested by the plaintiff: and at September term 1833,
the court made an order as follows: " It appearing to the court that
the death of- the defendant was suggested at the last term of this
court, and no steps having been since taken to revive the suit
against the representatives of said defendant, it is ordered that the
same abate." Afterwards, at the same term, the order abating the
suit was set aside, and a scire facias was issued to his executor;
and on the return of the same, in September 1834, a motion to revive the suit against the executor of Alexander Braden, was upon
argument overruled. On a day afterwards, in the same term, the
plaintiff's counsel moved to rescind this order; and the court directed
the following to be entered of record, viz.
"This was an action of detinue founded on a tort, brought by the
plaintiff against Alexander Braden, the defendant, for the -wrongful
-detention of a slave. The defendant, Braden, died previous to September term 1832, before the suit could be tried. His death was suggested at September term 1832, and a scire facias issued against Margaret Braden and Harvey Braden, his personal representatives, since
the last term, returnable to the present term, to show cause why the
said action should not be revived.
"The personal representatives by their counsel appeared, and upon
argument of the motion, whether the said action should or could be
revived against said personal representatives, the opinions of the
judges on said point were opposed. Whereupon, upon motion of the
plaintiff, by her attorney, that the point upon which said disagree-'
ment happened, may be stated under the direction of the judges,
and certified under the seal of the court, to the supreme court to be
finally decided: it is, therefore, ordered that the foregoing statement of facts in relation to said disagreement, which is made under
the direction of the judges, be certified, according to the request of
the parties, and the law in that case made and provided."
Mi'Huntsman, for the defendant, stated that the record presents
but one question for the decision of this court. Can an action of de-

SUPREME COURT.
[Davis v. Braden.]

tinue, founded on a wrongful detention of property, be revived
against the executor or administrator of a deceased defendant.'
For defendatiL it is insisted it cannot.
The unlawful detention is the gist of the action. I Inst. 286 ; 1
Chitty, pl. 119. But this question has been put at rest in the state
of Tennessee, by the very elaborate decision of the supreme court of
that state, in the, case of Jones and Glass against E. B. Littlefield,
administrators, &c., reported in 3 Yerg. 133. That case is decisive
of this cause, and the court say, "an action of detinue, founded on
a wrongful detention of property, cannot be revived, against an administrator," &c.
The instruction to the circuit court hhould be, that'this suit cannot
be revived against the personal representatives of Alexander Braden
deceased.
n counsel appeared for the plaintiff.

Mr Justice THOMPSON delivered the opinion of the Court.
This was an action of detinue, brought against the defendant for
the wrongful detention of a slave. The defendant died previous to
the term of the circuit court in the district of West Tennessee in
September 1832. His death was suggested at that term, and a
scire facias'afterwards issued against Margaret Braden and Harvey
Braden, his personal representatives, returnable at the September
term 1834; at wh'ich term the parties appeared by their attorneys:
and the plaintiff's attorney moved to revive the suit against the
executors of Braden, which motion, on argument, was overruled by
the'court, and the suit abated; and at a subsequent day in the same
term the plaintiff's attorney moved the court to rescind the order
refusing the motion to revive the suit; and upon this motion the
judges were opposed in opinion whether the action could be revived
against the personal representatives of the'defendant; and the case
comes here on a certificate of a division of opinion.
This question cannot, we think, lfe brought up on a certificate of
division of opinion in the circuit court: there was not, in strictness,
any cause in court. This suithad abated by the death of the
defendant; and the motion to revive it against his personal representatives had been denied, and the motion on which -the division of
opinion arose was to rescind that rule. -This motion, however, being
made at the same terik. in which the motion to revive had been

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Davis v. Braden.)

overruled, this objection may not be conclusive: but the insurmountable objection is, that the granting or refusing this motion was a
matter resting in the discretion of the court, and did not present a
point that can be certified under the act of congress.
Although the words of the act are general, that whenever any question shall occur before a circuit court upon which the opinion of tie
judges shall be opposed, the point shall be certified, &c.; yet it is very
certain that this cailnot embrace every question that may arise in the
progress of a cause, from its commencement. There may be many
motions made in the different stages of a cause, before trial, that could
not be brought here under a certificate of division ; such as motions
for amendments, for commissions, for continuancesj &c. ; and various
other motions that arise in' the progress of a suit; which, if brought
up in this manner, would occasion great delay and expense. These,
and all other questions resting in the discretion of the circuit court,
are not to be reviewed here.
The first proviso in this section of the act (3 Laws U. S.482, sect. 6)
would seem very plainly to indicate, that the points which may be
certified to this court, must arise upon some question at the trial: "Provided, that nothing herein contained shall prevent the cause from proceeding; if, in the opinion of the court, further proceedings can be had
without prejudice to the merits." And this construction of the act is
in some measure corroborated by the provision in the former act of
1793, 2 Laws U. S. 366, for the like purpose; providing for a division
of opinion, when the court should be held by the district judge and
one of the judges of the supreme court.. That act is in terms restricted to questions arising upon a final hearing of a cause or pleas to the
jurisdiction of the court,- The proyisio in the present act of 1802,
was a substitute for that, as to.the mode of disposing of. the question.
But there is nothing in this act affording grounds for the conclusion,
that it was intended to enlarge the provision as to the questions that
were to be lirought up.
The motion in the present case does not stand on stronger grQunds
than a motion for a new trial ; and it has been decided in this court,
in the case of the United S(ates v. Daniel, 6 Wheat. 542, that a division of opinion upon such a motion cannot be brought here by a
certificate of a division of opinion in the circuit court: and the reason
assigned is, that the granting or refusing a new trial is a mere matter
of discretion ; and the refusal, although the grounds of the motion
be spriad upon the record, is no sufficient cause for a writ of error.
VOL. x,-2 im

SUPREME COURT.
[Davis v. Braden.]

The effect of the division is, that the motion is lost: so in the presenl
case, the effect of the division of opinion is, that the motion-is lost
and the plaiitiff is driven to a new suit.
It may be supposed that the case of the United States v. Wilson,
is an authority for entertaining the present question ; 7 Peters 154 ;
but that case differs essentially from this. That case Was actually
in court, Itnd the motion on which the judges were opposed in opinion
related to proceedings 'in the trial of the cause: the prisoner having
pleaded guilty'i pronouncing judgment by the court was a part of the
trial, and the question arose upon a motion of the district attorney
for judgment. It was not a matter resting in the discretion of the
court, whether to give judgment or not: the court was bound, either
to pass sentence upon the prisoner, or to discharge him. The point
upon which the judges were divided in opinion did not relate to any
matter resting in the discretion of'the court, as to the nature or
degree of 'punishment; but whether the'prisoner was punishable at
all or not: and that'depended upon a question Of law growing out
of the pardon Of the prisoner; and in no respect rested in the discretion.
of the court. We do not mean to decide, definitively, that no question
can be brought here upon a certificate of a division of opinion, unless
the point arose upon the trial of the cause; but we are very muchinduced to think tfiat such is the true construction of the act: but
from the general words used, cases, may possibly arise that we do not
foresee. The questipn, however, brought up in the present case,
being one resting entirely in the discretion of the court, is clearly not
within the act; and this court, pannot, therefore, take cognizance of
the question.

This cause came on'to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the circuit court of the United States for the-district of West
Tennessee, and on the point and question on which the judges of the
said circuit court were opposed in opinion, and which was certified
to this court for its opinion agreeably to the act of congress in such
case made and provided, and was argued by counsel; on consideration -whereof, it is the opinion of this court, that it cannot take cognizance of the question 6ertified, the case being one resting entirely
in the discretion of the circuit court, and therefore clearly not within
the act of congress of the 29th of April 1802: whereupon, it is
ordered and adjudged by this court, that it be so certified to the said
circuit court.

