.SUPREME COURT.,

BENJAMIN

I.

GILMAN, PLAINTIFF IN ERROR V. PETER

G. RIVES.

Gilman obtained a judgment in an action of debt, instituted in the circuit court of
Kentucky, against Rives and Lyne; and he instituted a suit against Rives, on
the judgment, in the circuit court oi' West Tennessee. The declaration stated the
judgment to have been joint, against Rives and Lyne'; and no reason was assigned
in it, why Lyne was not a party to the suit. The defendant, Rives, demurred,
and the circuit court sustained the demurrer., The judgment of the circuit court
was affirmed.
Generally speaking, all joint obligors and other persons bound by covenants, contract,
or quasi contract, ought to be made parties to the suit; and the plaintiff, may be
compelled to join them all, by a plea in abatement for the non-joinder. But such
an objection can only be taken advantage.of by a plea in abatement; for if one
party only is sued,'it is not matter in bar of the suit, or in arrest of judgment, upon
the finding of the jury, or of variance in evidence upon the trial. But the same
doctrine does not appear to have been acted upon, t6 the full extent, in cases of
recognisance and judgments, and other matters of record, such as bonds to the
crown. If in cases of this sort it appears by the declaration, or other pleadings,
that there is another joint debtor who is not sued, although it is not averred that
he is living; the objection need not be pleaded in abatement, but it may be taken
advantage of upon demurrer, or in arrest of judgment.
A judgment that a declaration is bad in substance, (which alone, and not matter of
form, is the ground of a general demurrer) can-never be pleaded as a bar to a good
declaration for the same cause of action. The judgment is in no just sense a
judgment upon the merit.

IN error to the circuit court of the United States for the district of
west Tennessee.
The case is stated at large in the opinion~of the court.
Mr Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the Court.
This a writ of error to the circuit court for the district of west
Tennessee.
The plaintiff in error, Gilman, brought an action of debt against the
defendant in error, Rives, upon a jointjudgment rendered in his favour
against Rives and one Leonard H. Lyne, in the circuit.court for the
district of Kentucky. The declaration is in the following terms:
"For that whereas the said Benjamin Ives Gilman, Jun., heretofore, to wit, at the November term, in the year of our Lord 1829, of
the seventh circuit court of the United States, sitting in and for the
district of Kentucky, at Frankfort in said -state, before, &c., by the
consideration and judgment of the said court, recovered against the

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Gilman v. Rives.)

said Peter G. Rives and one Leonard H. Lyne the sum of 6860 dollars, then and there adjudged to the said B. I. Gilman, Jun. for his
damages, which he had sustained by reason of the non-performance
of the defendant and the said Leonard H. Lyne, of certain promises
and undertakings then lately made by them to the plaintiff, and also
his costs and charges by him about his suit in that behalf expended,
whereof the said Peter G. Rives, the present defendant, and the said
Leonard H. Lyne were convicted, as by :the records, &c., which said
judgment still remains in full force and effect, &c. ; whereby an action hath accrued to him the said B. i. Gilman, Jun., tojdemand and
have of the defendant the'said sum of 6860 dollars above demanded;
yet the defendant, though often requested, &c."
Tothis declaration there was a general demurrer filed; and upon
-the joinder in demurrer, the circuit court gave judgment in favour of
the defendant, " that the declaration aforesaid and the matters in
the same contained, are not good and sufficient in law to enable the
plaintiff to have and maintain his action aforesaid," &c.
The present writ of error is brought to revise that judgment.
The sole questi6n in the case is, whether the action was maintainable against the defendant Rives alone; the judgment appearing n
the f,. ze of the declaration to be a joint one against him and Lyne,
and no reason being assigned in the declaration why Lyne was not
made a party thereto. If :it had appeared upon the face of the declaration that Lyne was dead, or out of the jurisdiction of the biourt,
or incapable of being made a party to the suit; there is no doubt that
the action might well be maintained against the other judgment
debtor. The-question then is, whether the non-joinder of Lyne, as
a co-defendant, and~the omission to aver any reason for such nonjoinder, is a fatal defect, upon a general demurrer to a declaration
thus framed, The matter might, without doubt, have been pleaded
in abatement ; and not having been so pleaded, it is contended that
it cannot be taken advantage of upon general demurrer.
The doctrine which is to govern in this case, is of a purely technical nature ; and turns upon the rules of good pleading. We have
certainly no desire to encourage exceptions of this sort, for they are
generally of a nature wholly beside the merits of the case. But still,
if they are founded in the general rules of pleading, and are supported by authority; it is our duty not to disregcrd them.
Generally speaking, all joint obligors and other persons bound by
covenants, contract, or quasi contract, ought to be made parties to the

SO9

SUPREME COURT.
[Gilman v. Rives.]

suit; and the plaintiff may be compelled to join them all, by a plea
in abatement for the non-joinder. But such an objection can only
abatement : for if one party only
be taken advantage of by a plea irn
is sued, it is not matter in bar of the suit, or in arrest ofjudgment,
upotu the finding of the jury, or of variance in evidence upon the
trial. Thus, for instance, if one obligor be sued upon a joint bond,
and upon oyer the bond is spread upon1 the record, and thereby becomes a part of the declaration, by which it appears that another
person is named as a joint obligor; the party sued should not demur,
but should plead in abatement that the other sealed and delivered
the bond, and was in full life; for non constat, upon the oyer, that
the other did seal and deliver the bond. So it was held in Whelpdale's case, 5,.Co. Rep. 119 ; and in Cabell v. Vaughan, 1 Saund.
Rep. 291 : and that doctrine has been constantly referred to ever
since; and was fully confirmed in Rice v. Shute, 5 Burr. Rep. 2611.
But if it should appear upon the face of thfe declaration, or other
pleading of the plaintiff, that another jointly sealed the bond with the
defendant, and that both are still living ; the court will arrest the
judgment, and the objection may be taken by demurrer: because the
plaintiff himself shows that another ought to be joined ; and it would
be absurd to compel the defendant to plead facts which are already
admitted. It is unnecessary to do more to support this distinction
than to refer to the learned note of serjeant Williams, to the case of
Cabell v. Vaughan, 1 Saund. Rep. 291, note 4; where all the leading
authorities are collected and commented on.
But .the same doctrine does not appear to have been acted upon,
to the full extent, in cases of recognisance and judgments, and other
matters of record, such as bonds to the crown. If in cases of this
sort it appears by the declaration, or other pleadings, that there is
another joint debtor who is not sued, although it is not averred that
he is living; the objection need not be pleaded in abatement, but it
may be taken advantage of upon demurrer, or in arrest of judgment.
Thus, in Blackwell v. Ashton, Alleyn's Rep. '21, a scire facies was
brought against three parties, upon a recognisance acknowledged by
them and the principal, jointly and severally; and upon a demurrer,
ihe writ abated by good advisement, as the report says, because this
being founded upon a record, the plaintiff ought to show forth the
cause of the variance from the record. But if an action be brought
upon a bond in the like case, there the defendant ought to show that
it was made by them and others in full life, not named in the writ.:

JANUARY TERM 1836.
[Gilman v. Rives.]

because the court shall not intend that the bond was sealed and delivered by all that are named in it. There is another report of the
same case, or of another case between the same parties, in the preceding term of the court, in Styles's Rep. 50, in which the points
are somewhat differently stated ;,,but it is a very loose note. The
case in Alleyn's Rep. 21, has been fully recognised and acted on in
the recent cases in the court of exchequer. In Rex v.Young, 2 Anstr.
Rep. 448, there was a scike facias against two joint sureties upon a recognizance to the king; and the declaration stated that four persons
became bound by the recognizance, without averring the other to be
dead; or outlawed. There was a plea put in by the defendant, to
which the crown replied ; and upon general demurrer the Plea and replication were held to be bad. An exception was taken to the declaration that all the parties were not joined; and it was held a fatal objection by the court. Lord chief baron Macdonald, in declaring the opinion of the court, said: "the defendant, however, rests on an objection
to the declaration, that two of those jointly bound in the recognizance
are sued without the rest, and without averring that the others are
dead. And it is clear that this is a valid objection to it. But it has
been contended that the objection should have been taken by a plea
in abatement. That rule holds where the fact does not appear upon
the declaration. But where it already appears on the declaration
that others ought to have been joined, and are not, no plea is necessary. It is clear from the cases cited in 5 Burr. 2611, and that in
Alleyn, which corresponds very accurately with the present." The
same point was adjudged in the same Way by the same court in the
subsequent case of Rex v. Chapman, 3 Anstr. Rep. 811. (a)
As a question, therefore, of authority, the doctrine seems well
settled ; and we cannot say, that upon. principle there is not good
sense in requiring the plaintiff iti his suit to assign some reason why,
when he declares upon a joint judgment, he does not join others
whom he states in his'declaration to be jointly liable.
The objection may be urged that the judgment upon a general
demurrer, in this case, will be a good bar to any future suit brought
against the present defendant upon the same debt, or against him
and the other judgment debtor. We are of a different opinion as to
both, if the declaration be properly framed; for a judgment that a
declaration is bad in substance (which alone, and not matter of form,
(a) See also the note of Messrs Pattison and Williams to the last edition of Saun.

ders.

I Saund. 291, note (c).

302

SUPREME COURT.
[Gilman v. Rives.]

is the ground of a general demurrer) can never be pleaded as a bar
to a'good declaration for the same cause of action. The judgment
is in no just sense a judgment upon the merits. If authority be
wanting for.this position, it willbe-found in the case of Lampen v.
Kedgewise, 1 Mod. Rep. 207 ; where to an action in the nature of
a conspiracy, the defendant pleaded a bad plea,' and judgment was
in part rendered against the plaintiff for the insufficiency of 'his declaration; but by mistake'or design the judgment was entered that
the plea was good, and ideo consi.deratum, instead of that the declaration was bad' and insufficient, and ideo consideratum. Upon a
second suit for the same cause of action, the former. judgment was
pleaded, and upon demurrer held no bar. And the court held, that
notwithstanding this mistake in the entry, if the plea was bad it was
no estoppel ; and the court accordingly took notice of the plea, and
said upon that matter, as it falls out to be god 'or otherwise, 'the
second action is maintainable or not. And judgment was accordingly given, nisi, for the plaintiff; but if the judgment had been properly rendered, that' the declaration was insufficient, &o., there was
no doubt that the former judgment was no bar.
But to avoid all possible difficulty onthis point, in our okn judgment we shall state the cause for which the declaration is held bad; so
that it cannot be a bar to any suit properly brought on the judgment.
The judgment of the circuit court is therefore affirmed with costs.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record
from the circuit court of the United States for the district of West
Tennessee, and was argued by counsel ; on consideration whereof,
inasmuch as it appears to the court that the declaration and the rinat
ters therein contained are not sufficient in law for the said Gilman
to have or maintain his aforesaid action against the said Rives, because it appears upon the declaration that there is another joint
judgment debtor, the said Lyne, who is not sued, nor any reason
assigned why lie. is not joited in th6 suit; therefore, and for this
cause, it is considered by the court ihat the judgment of the said
circuit court be, and hereby ig'"affirmed with. costs.

