JANUARY TERM 1836.

MATTHEW ST CLAIR

CLARKE, PLAINTIFF IN

ERROR V.

CONRAD

KOWNSLAR.
The circuit court were required to instruct the jury upon points of law growing out
of allegations of facts, of which there was no evidence or proof. The refusal of the
court to do so was correct.

IN error to the circuit court of the United States for the county of
Washington, in the District of Columbia.
This case was argued by Coxe, for the plaintiff in error; and by
Mr Dunlap, and Mr'Key, for the defendant.
The court, in their 'opinion, having'decided that none of the
questions which were argued, were presented by the evidence in
the circuit court, the arguments of counsel on those questions are
omitted.
Mr Justice STORY delivered the opinion of the Court.
This is a writ of error to the ircuit court of the District of Columbia for the county of Washington.
Kowns!ar brought the original action in November 1832, against
Clarke, upon the follow*ing letter of guarantee : "Mill creek, Virginia. Conrad Kownslar: Dear sir, if you will make James Miles
of this city your agent, as you intimated to him, I will see your money paid in due course of sales. He asks five per cent commission ;
and will take all intended for this market. He wishes an answer.,
Your obedient servant, Matthew St Clair Clarke. Washington, the
27th of September 1828." Kownslar received the letter ; and sent
paper accordingly to Miles, between November 1828 and December
1829; amounting (as the declaration avers) to the value of 8396
dollars and 75 cents, part of 'which paper was afterwards returned:
and upon the sales of the residue there remains due and unpaid (as
the declaration avers)-to Kownslar, the sum of 4238 dollars and 62#
cents, after deducting commissions: to recover which sum the action
was brought.
VOL. X.-4 H

.SUPREME COURT.
[Clarke v. Kownslar.]

At the trial, upon the general issue, a verdict was found for the
plaintiff, upon which judgment was rendered in his favour; and the
present Writ of error is brought to revise that judgment. Two bills of
exceptions were taken, the second only of which is now before the
court for consideration; excepting only so far as the evidence contained in the first is referred to in the latter. It appears friom these
bills of exceptions, that, at the trial, the plaintiff offered in evidence
the letter of guarantee; and then the testimony of Miles, who
proved that he was a commission merchant in the city-of Washington for the sale of paper and bther articles of stationary ; that he
receiyed consignments of such articles from several persons, who were
not in any manner secured or guarantied by any persons for their
consignments,; and also, further testified, that after the said letter
was written, the plaintiff sent sundry packages of paper to him for
sale; and that before he sent the same, lie informed Miles that he
had received the said letter from the defendant, and should send it.
On cross-examinati.on, he'further proved a letter (dated Novembet
4th, 1828) accompanying the packages first sent ; and also, certain
articles of agreement entered into between Clarke and the witness
(dated the 1st of October. 1828) ; both of which papers are in the
record ; and that, after the said paper was received from the plaintiff by Miles, the defendant (Clarke) knev of it; and was then, and
afterwards, in the habit of inspecting the books kept by the witness,
in which the paper, as received by the witneiss from the plaintiff, and
the sales made thereofTrom time to time, as the same was received
and sold, were entered. He fu'rther testified, that on the 28th of April
1830, he terminated his business as such commission merchant; made
a general assignment of all his stock, books, &c. to the defendant,
who took possession under the same of.various articles then in the
store of Miles; but never did take possession of, or exercise any control.over the paper so lying in his said store belonging to the plaintiff; but the same was delivered to, and received by the plaintiff.
The assignment was then introduced.
These are all the facts stated in the first bill of exceptions. The
second proceeded to state, that after the testimony so given, the plaintiff proved, by Miles, that the usage and practice of commission merchants in the city of Washington was to sell either on credit or cash
the articles consigned. But that as soon as the proceeds of sales are
received by such commission merchant, he at once becomes responsible to the consignor for the proceeds, and is not entitled to any

JANUARY TERM 1836..

659

[Clarke v. Kownslar.1

credit for the same. He further gave in evidence the books of Miles,
and two certain drafts for 1000 dollars each, with the indorsements
and protests of the same. Each of. these drafts was dated at Mill
creek, October 31st, 1829, drawn an Miles, and payable to the order
of Lewis Hoff,, Esq. cashier ; one in ten days after date, the other in
thirty days after sight, and were each accepted by Miles on the 5th
of November of the same year.
The plaintiff further offered q prove by Miles,. and he testified,
that when he accepted these drafts he had no funds from the colleation of sales of the plaintiff's paper; but accepted the same in
expectation of making such collections, which, however, he was
not able to make. The defendant then gave in' evidence certain
letters of the plaintiff to Miles, dated on the 13th of.May, and the
17th of October 1829. The first letter, after speaking of paper sent,
and of other paper of the plaintiff on hand, &c., added : "you will
please tW send me a*check for the amount you advised I should draw
on you for.at thirty days. By so doing you will have eight to ten
days after date till it will be presented for pay." The second, after
asking for information by the bearer, how Miles comes on with the
sale of his paper, &c. added : "my draft, I presume, will be pre-,
sented soon. I hope you will not suffer it to be returned." The
plaintiff then read to the jury the account between him and Miles,
showing the amount claimed in the suit.
The defendant's counsel then prayed the court to instruct the jury
as follows: that if they shall believe from the said evidence, that according to the ordinary tisage of the business of commission 'merchants in the city of Washington, in which Miles was engaged and
in which heacted in receiving, selling and accounting for the paper
consigned to him, no credit wag allowed or given to such commission
merchant; and that without the knowledge, privity or consent of
tthe said defendant, the plaintiff drew upon Miles for the sums of
money which he had received as the proceedsof said sales of his
paper, so rmade by Miles, which drafts were payable at distant
days or periods: that then such drafts, so drawn as aforesaid and accepted by Miles, payable according to their tenor, amount to a credit
given by the plaintiff to Miles; and that such credit, so given, constitutes a new agreement and discharges the defendant from his,
liability on his said letter of guarantee. The court refused to give
the instruction as prayed ; and to this refusal the defendant excepted:

660

SUPREME COURT.
[Clarke v. Kownslar.]

and the propriety of this refusal constitutes the sole point for our
consideration.
We give no opinion upon the instruction, as matter of law, because we are of opinion that there was no evidence whatsoever before
the jury, which called upon the court to give it; and that upon this
account it was properly refused. There was no proof before the jury
that Miles, at the time of the acceptance of the drafts, had any money in his hands, which he had received as the proceeds of the sales
of the paper of the plaintiff. The drafts, being payable at future
times, the mere acceptance of them by Miles, did not establish any
such fact; for it is a known and ordinary course of business for such
acceptances to be made, not only when the acceptor has funds in
his hands, but also when funds are expected to be received by him
before the maturityof thedrafts; and indeedoften, for theaccommodation of the drawers when the acceptor, being a commission merchant,
has the property on hand, out of the sales of -which he expects to
reimburse himself for the advance. The theory of the law, which
supposes the acceptor to have funds of the drawer in his hands, is a
theory mainly intended for the security-of third persons, and leaves
the transaction to be judged of between the parties themselves, according to the ordinary course of business between thern. But without resorting to these considerations, the fair presumption would
seem to be, in cases like the present, that drafts drawn payable at
future periods, 'were designed to reach funds not yet received, but to
be received at the matuity of the bills. The present case, however,
does not stand upon presumptions. Here is positive proof from Miles
(who seems to have been the only witness in the case), that-at
the time he accepted the bills he had no funds in his hands, but that
he expected to make collections, which however he did not make.
And the written documents in no shape shake his testimony. Indeed, a part .of the very instruction, as framed, seems founded upon
the credibility of that testimony. So that we do not perceive how,
consistently with the rules of law, the instruction could be given; as
there was no evidence before the jury conducing to prove the facts
on which it was founded.
The judgment is therefore affirmed, with six percent damages and
costs.

This cause came on to be heard on the transcript of the record

JANUARY TERM 1836.

661

[Clarke v. Kownslar.]

from the circuit court of the United States for the District of Columbia, holden in and for the county of Wa'shington, and wag-argued by
counsel ; on consideration whereof, it is adjudged and ordered by this
court, that the judgment of the said circuit court in this cause be, and
the same is hereby affirmed, with costs and damages at the rate of
six per centum per annum.

