JANUARY TERM 1836.

THOMAS D. OWINGS,

PLAINTIFF IN ERROR V. LUKE TIERNAN'S

LESSEE.
The transcript of the record had been lodged by the plaintiffs in error with the clerk
of the court on the 24th of October 1835; who refused to file it or docket the cause,
until the plantiffs had given the fee bond in purguance of the thirty-seventh rule
of the court. The counsel for the plaintiffs in error moved to have the transcript
filed and docketed; alleging they had done all the law required to be done in order
to bring the case before this court. On the part of the defendant in error, his
counsel filed and read in open court certified copies of the writ of error, citation

and appeal bond, and of the judgment of the circuit court; and having stated that
the plaintiffs in error had failed to have the case docketed according to the
thirtieth rule of the court, they moved to have the case docketed and dismissed.
The court overruled the motion to docket and dismiss the cause; and also, the
motion to have the transcript filed, and the cause docketed witholit the fee bond

being first given. These motions were overruled on the 18th of January 1836;
and- the court allowed the plaintiffs in error until the 1st day of March following
to give to the clerk the fee bond : on the failure so to give the same, the writ of
error to be dismissed.

IN error to the circuit court of the United.States for the district of
Kentucky.
Mr Underwood, counsel for the defendant in error in this cause,
having filed and read iti open -)urt certified copies of the writ of
error, citation and appeal bond in this case, and the judgment of
the circuit court of the United States for the district of Kentucky,
rendered in said cause; and having stated that the plaintiffs in
error had failed to have their transcript of the record of said cause
filed with the clerk, and their cause placed upon the calendar of
this court according to the rules thereof; now moved the court
to have said writ of error docketed and dismissed in pursuance
of the thirtieth rule of the court: which motion was opposed
by Messrs Loughborough and Crittenden, counsel for the plaintiffs
in error; who stated that the transcript of the record of the cause had
been lodged with the clerk of this court the 24th of October 1835;
who refused to file the record or docket the cause until the plaintiffs
in error had given the usual fee bond, under and in pursuance of the
thirty-seventh rule of this court, of January term 1831 ; and that at
the same time the clerk gave to Mr Loughborough, counsel as aforesaid, a blank fee bond, which the plaintiffs in error hid not axecuted,

448

SUPREME COURT.
[Owings v. Tiernan.]

supposing that they had done all that was required by law of them
to do : and the said counsel for the plaintiffs in error moved the court
to order said transcript to be filed and the cause to be docketed. On
consideration whereof, and after mature deliberation thereupon, it was
ordered by the court, thant the motionof Mr Underwood to docket and
'dismiss beoverruled. "And it is further considered and ordered by the
court, th'at the motion of Messrs Lou ghborough and Crittenden to have
the transcript filed and the cause docketed without the usual fee bond,
be, and the same is hereby overruled. And it is further now here
ordered by the court, that upon the plaintiffs in error giving to the
clerk the usual fee bond, he, the clerk, shall file the transcript and
docket the cause. And it is further now here ordered by the court,
that if the plaintiffs in error shall fail to give to the clerk of this
court the usual fee bond required by the tlirty-seventh rule of this
court, of January term 1831, on or before the 1st day of March next
ensuing this datei that then and in that case the writ of error i.n
this
cause shall be docketed and dismissed."

