JANUARY TERM 1829.

3.

ltuipnn,

PLANTuIF IN Euoma vs ANTHONiY Bu'rLEnj Dv~Nx,ANT IN ERROI .

By the law ofMississippi, the assignee of a chose in action mayinstitute a suit in.
his own name.

When therefore an executor, having proved the will of his

testator, in Kentrcky, had assigned a promissory note due 'to the estate by a
citizen of Mississippi; the suit was well brought by the assignee, without any

probate of the will in thit state.

ERROR to. the district court of the United States for the
district of Kentucky.
The only question submitted to the, court ,was, whether
the assignee of a chose 'ir action; assigned by an executor
in the state where he had proved the will and taken out
letters testan'entary, where the debt .was contracted, and
where the testator-lived and died; could maintain an action
in another state, without a new'probate and new letters testamentary taken out in the state in which the action was
brought.The question arose on the demurrer of the defendant to
the plaintiff's'-replication; setting outI the. probate, l'tters"
testamentary, assignment, &c., The 'district-court sustained
the demurrer and decided against the plaintiff's right of
action.
The causes of demurier shown by the defendait in error,
were:
1.-' That the replication does not allege and set forth that
the will of the testator was proved, and- that' letters testamentary ware granted to the executor-in the state f Missisippi.
2. That .the replication, does not show that the will'of the
testator was proved,.and probate thereof granted to the executor or any other person ithin the jurisdiction of the
court; 'nor- that it Was granted by 'a tribunal of competent
jurisdiction.
Mr Jones, for the plaintiff, contended ihat the assignment
beingconsummat6 in the jurisdi-tion where the-.executor's,

SUPREME COURT.
[Harper vs. Butler.]

authority was indisputable, operated a complete transfer of
the chose in action there; and carried with it a right of
action every where- . to which no new probate, or letters
testamentary, could have added any validity whatsoever.
No counsel appeared for thedefend'ant.
Mr Chief Justice MAISLHALL delivered the opinion of the
Court.
This is an action of debt brought by the plaintiff in error,
in the court of the United Sttes.for the district of Mississippi, as the assignee of Henry Clay, executor of James
Morrison deceased. The defenlant pleaded in abatement,
that the will of James Morrison had notfbeen proved or recorded in the 'state of Mississippi, nor had letters testamentary therein been granted to Henry Clay the executor. To
this plea-there was a replication, which set out the probate
of the will in the.state of Kentucky, the letters testamentary
to' the executor, and the assignment, in the -state of Kentucky, of the note on which the action was brought to the
plaintiff in error. To this replication the defendant a-emurred. The court gave judgment for the defendant, and
.the plaintiff has sued out this writ of error.
The district *court proceeded on tWe idea that the executor could -not transfer a .chose in action in Kentucky, because.the obliger did iot reside in that state. This court
supposes the law to be otherwise. The assignment in Kentucky could not 4nable the assignee to sue in the courts of
Mississippi, unless the law of the court.authorized an assignee to sue in his own name. But since this is permitted
in the courts of Mississippi, the plea in abatement cannot
be sustained.
The judgment is reversed, and the cause remanded to the
district court with-directions to over-rule the demurrer.

